es
herself upon being so mis-made. She cannot help t'at; neit'er can I help
despising her. Such vomen are abnormal, monstrous, in a vord, failures.
Let t'em die! You, I t'ink, are not so. You study to bide t'e time. You
haf a fine carriage. You comb t'e hair, you haf pretty ribbons, you make
t'e body strong and supple, you look in t'e glass and vish for more
beauty. Not so?"

"Of course I do," I cried angrily, wondering for the moment if he had lost
his senses. It seemed as if he knew little about women for a man who
professed to make all life his study. If there were one of his despised
girls who lacked the desire of beauty and the dream of love, I am much
mistaken. But I came to see afterward that he understood them as well as
myself.

"I t'ought so," he mused, his eyes still upon my face. "And you are not
too beautiful now; t'ey could not doubt. Yes; I vatch you, I study you.
Seldom I make t'e mistake; but it is fery important. So I vatch you a
little v'ile longer yet. T'en I say to myelf: 'Here is t'e voman; yes, she
is found.'"

And he chuckled and rubbed his lean hands together as I had so often seen
him do.

The thought flashed across my mind that this extraordinary man meditated a
proposal of marriage, but I dismissed the notion as ridiculous.

The Professor leaned forward and, fixing me with his eye, spoke in a
hoarse whisper, tense with excitement:--

"Mees Veenship, I am a biologist; you are a voman, creature of Nature,
yearning for perfection after your kind. I--I can gife it you. You can
trust me; I am ready. I can gif you your vish, t'e vish of efery normal
voman. Science--t'at is I--can make you t'e most beautiful being in t'e
vorld!"

Another Sunday school lesson! Miss Coleman and her unforgotten lecture
upon beauty flashed upon my mind. But this man was promising me more than
she had done, and his every word was measured. What was the mystery? What
had he to say to me?

"T'e most beautiful--voman--in t'e vorld," he went on in a slow, cadenced
whisper. "Do you vish it?"

His glittering eyes held mine again. No, he was not jesting at my expense;
rather he seemed waiting with anxiety for me to make some decision upon
which much depended. He was in very serious earnest.

But was ever a question more absurd? Who of women would not wish it? But
to get the wish--ah, there's a different matter! I thought he must be
crazed by over-study, and I could only sit and stare at him, open-mouthed.

"Listen!" he went on more rapidly, as if to forestall objection. "You are
scholar, too, a little. You know how Nature vorks, how men aid her in her
business. Man puts t'e mot'er of vinegar into sweet cider and it is
vinegar. T'e fermenting germs of t'e brewery chemist go in vit' vater and
hops and malt, and t'ere is beer. T'e bacilli of bread, t'e yeast,
svarming vit millions of millions of little spores, go into t'e
housevife's dough, and it is bad bread; but t'at is not t'e fault of t'e
bacilli--mein Gott, no!--for vit' t'e bacilli t'e baker makes goot bread.
T'e bacilli of butter, of cheese--you haf studied t'em. T'e experimenter
puts t'e germs of good butter into bad cream and it becomes goot. It
ripens. It is educated, led in t'e right vay. Tradition vaits for years to
ripen vine and make it perfect. Science finds t'e bacillus of t'e perfect
vine and puts it in t'e cask of fresh grape juice, and soon t'e vine
drinkers of t'e vorld svear it is t'e rare old vintage. T'e bacillus,
inconceivably tiny, svarming vit' life, reproducing itself a billion from
one, t'at is Nature's tool. And t'e physiologist helps Nature.

"See now," continued Prof. Darmstetter. "I haf a vonderful discofery made.
I must experiment vit' it--_experimentum in corpore vili!_
Impossible, for the subject is mankind. I must haf a voman--a voman like
you, healt'y, strong, young--all t'e conditions most favourable. She must
haf intelligence--t'at is you. She should know somet'ing of biology, and
be fery brave, so t'at she may not be frightened, but may understand how
t'e vonderful gift is to come to her; and t'at is you. She should not be
already beautiful, lest t'e change be less convincing. Yes, you are t'e
voman for t'e test. You may become more famous in history fan Cleopatra or
Ninon, and outshine t'em and all t'e ot'er beauties t'at efer lifed. Do
you vant triumphs? Here t'ey are. Riches? You shall command t'em. Fame?
Power? I haf t'em for you. You shall be t'e first. Aftervard, v'en beauty
is common as ugliness is now--ah, I do not know. Efen t'en it vill be a
blessing. But to be t'e first is fame and all t'e ot'er t'ings I promise
you. Now do you trust me? Now do you beliefe me? Vill you make t'e
experiment? I haf--let me tell you!--I haf discofered--"

Cautiously Prof. Darmstetter looked about the room. Then he leaned toward
me again and added in a hoarse whisper:--

"I haf discofered t'e Bacillus of Beauty."



CHAPTER VI.


THE GREAT CHANGE.

The Bacillus of Beauty! Was the poor man insane? Had much study made of
him a monomaniac babbling in a dream of absurdities? Do you wonder that I
doubted?

And yet--the thought flashed through my mind that things almost as strange
have become the commonplace. I had seen the bones of my own hand through
the veiling flesh. I had listened to a voice a thousand miles away. I had
seen insects cut in two, grafted together, head of one and tail of
another, and living. I had seen many, many marvels which science has
wrought along the lines of evolution. And yet--

My dream; my desire always! If it could be!

As I stared open-mouthed at the Professor, he began once more:--

"T'e danger, t'e risk--t'ere is none. You shall see. It is as harmless
as--"

"Never mind about that!" I interrupted. "How would I look? Would it change
me totally? Would I really be the most beautiful?--"

I stopped, blushing at my own eagerness.

"Absolutely; I svear it. T'e most perfectly beautiful voman in t'e vorld.
Mein Gott, yes. How not? Never vas t'ere yet a perfectly beautiful voman.
Not von. All have defects; none fulfills t'e ideal. You? You vill look
like yourself. I do not miracles. T'e same soul vill look out of your
eyes. You vill be perfect, but of your type. T'e same eyes, more bright;
t'e same hair, more lustrous and abundant; t'e same complexion clear and
pure; t'e same voman as she might have been if t'e race had gone on
defeloping a hundred t'ousand years. Look you. Some admire blondes; some
brunettes. You are not a Svede to be white, an Italian to be black. You
are a brown American. You shall be t'e most beautiful brown American t'at
efer lifed. And you shall be first. Vit' you as an example we shall
convince t'e vorld. Ve shall accomplish in t'ree generations t'e vork of a
hundred t'ousand years of defelopment. How vill humanity bless us if we
can raise, out of t'e slums and squalor, out of t'e crooked and blind and
degraded, out of t'e hospitals and prisons, t'e spawning dregs of humanity
and make t'em perfect! T'ey shall valk t'e eart' like gods, rejoicing in
t'eir strengt'. No more failures, no more abnormalities. Nature's vork
hastened by science, aeons of veary vaiting and slow efolution forestalled
by--by me!"

The little Professor stood erect, his eye fixed on mine, his mien
commanding. I had never looked on man so transfigured.

The thought was intoxicating me, driving me wild. I tried to think, to
struggle against the tide that was sweeping me away. He seemed to be
hypnotizing me with his grave, uncanny eye. I could not move, I could not
speak.

"You may ask," Darmstetter went on--though I had not thought of asking--
"if t'e beauty vould be hereditable; if as an acquired characteristic, it
vould pass to descendants, or, if each child vill not haf to be treated
anew. I believe no. It is true t'at acquired traits are not hereditable.
T'ere Weissmann is right, v'atefer doubters may say. You know t'e t'eory.
T'e blacksmit's muscles are not transmitted to his son t'e clerk; but t'e
black hair t'at he got from his fat'er. Only after fery many generations
of blacksmit's could a boy be born who vould grow up as a clerk vit'
blacksmit' muscles. Efolution shapes t'e vorld, yes; but t'e process is so
slow, so slow! So education, modification, must begin afresh vit' each
generation and continue forefer. But t'is bacillus does not add ornament
to t'e outside. It is not like t'e masseuse, vit' her unguents and
kneading. It changes all t'e nature. It is like compressing a million
years of education by natural selection into von lifetime. T'at is my
t'eory. I do not know--it is not yet tried--but how ot'ervise? Ve but
hasten t'e process, as t'e chemist hastens fermentation; Nature
constructs, she does not adapt or alter or modify. Ve produce beauty by
Nature's own met'od. V'y not hereditary?"

I had made up my mind.

"I'll do it," I cried, no longer able to resist, for the fever of it was
in my blood. "You shall make your attempt on me! It can do no harm. I do
not see how it can accomplish all you claim, but if you think--it's an
experiment full of possibilities--in the interests of science--"

"Interest of humbug!" snapped Prof. Darmstetter, his own sarcastic self
again. "You consent because you vant to be beautiful. You care not'ing for
science. I can trust you vit' my secret. You need svear no oat's not to
reveal it. You vant to be t'e only perfect voman in t'e vorld, and so you
shall be, for some time. T'at is right. T'at is your revard."

My cheeks flushed at his injustice. I do care for others. I am not
selfish--not more than everybody. And yet--at that moment I feared him and
his knowledge; I shuddered at nameless terrors.

Really, I often wonder that I ever had the courage to try. And oh, I am so
glad!

Now there is no more fear. Darmstetter is my servant, if I will it. As for
his marvellous power, I shall bless it and reverence it all my life. I
thank God for letting me know this man. It is too wonderful--too wonderful
for words!

The transformation was slow at first. The beginning--such an anxious time.
Every day I studied myself and watched and waited for the first sign of
growing grace, for the dawning glory. Sometimes I thought I could see the
change already under way, and then again the same plain Nelly Winship
looked at me from the uncomplimentary glass, and away flew all my hopes.

It was the fading of a little scar on my thumb that first let me know the
blessed truth. Now I can scarcely see the place where it was, and I'm sure
no one else would notice it. It will never go away entirely. Prof.
Darmstetter says I am not proof against wounds and old age, because these
are a part of Nature's great plan. But it faded, faded!

And my ears! How I used to hate their prominence! But soon they snuggled
closer to my beautiful, beautiful face--and I'm in sure I don't blame
them. Every morning when I woke, my shining eyes and the bloom of my
cheeks told me I was growing perfect, just as he said I must do. Though
I'm not yet quite perfect.

I could sit at my glass and look for hours at my reflected image--if it
weren't for Kitty--and--

Why, it seems like another girl, and such a girl as never the world saw
before--not me, but Her. Sometimes times I fear Her; but oftener and
oftener, as I get used to the lovely vision, I want to hug Her right out
of the cold mirror and kiss Her and pat Her smooth cheek like a child's,
and put pretty clothes upon Her, as if she were a doll.

And then I try to realise that Her is Me, my own self, and I just cannot
believe it! I look from the reflected image to a little photograph of the
Helen Winship I once knew, and back again to the glass, and wonder, and
thank God, and shudder with awe of my own loveliness. I luxuriate in it, I
joy in it, I feel it in every fibre of my being. I am as happy as a queen.
I am a queen--or She is.

I am but slightly taller. My form is more rounded and of better mould, but
I am still slender. My face is the same face but--how can I express it? A
Venus with the--the expression of a Western schoolgirl pursuing special
studies in New York, looks at me with Her eyes. They are the eyes of Helen
Winship, but larger and fuller orbed and more lustrous, with an appeal
that makes me fall in love with myself, as I look. The nose is longer and
straighter, the cheeks fuller and fairer, the chin daintier, the neck--ah,
well, why shouldn't I be frank? I am beautiful!

And the complexion--still so strange I do not say "my complexion"--clear,
fair, rosy all in one, with the fineness and purity of a baby's; it is the
most indescribable of all the marvels that glow in my glass. Before, I had
the rather sallow, powder-excusing skin of so many Western girls. Now it
is perfect. I love to gaze by the hour at my own beauty. I should be
renamed Narcissa.

My voice, too, is glorious. I have to school myself not to start at the
sound of it when I speak. And most of all, what most impresses me when I
try to consider myself fairly--candidly--critically--is the appearance of
strength, of health, of unbounded power and deathless youth--as if the
blood of generations of athletic girls and free, Viking men ran in my
veins. I am, I believe, the only perfectly healthy woman on earth.

Will the gods smite me for my happiness? Are they jealous? Ah, well, I
have never lived until now, and if I can stay a little while like this, I
shall be satisfied; I shall be ready to die. If only beauty does not
vanish as suddenly as it came! If it did, I should kill myself.

There are disadvantages. Such a time as I'm having with my clothes! Money
to buy new is not so plenty as I could wish, though the $75 a month that
Father sends was more than enough until the change. I'm saving to buy a
microscope--a better one than those loaned to students at the laboratory;
so I have to let out and contrive--I who so hate a needle!

And the staring admiration that is lavished on me everywhere! I suppose
I'll get used to it; but it's a new experience. I like to be looked at,
too, much as it embarrasses me. My loveliness is like a beautiful new
dress; one is delighted to have it, but terribly shy about wearing it, at
first.

Admiration! Why, the mystified music master is ready to go down on his
knees to me, the janitor and the page boys are puzzled. I wonder--I wonder
what John will say, I almost dread to think of his seeing me so; yet it
will be the greatest test. Test! I need none!

The girls in the laboratory are divided between awe and envy, and Kitty
Reid--poor Kitty! She began by being puzzled, then grew panic stricken.

The first time she noticed--I shall always remember it--was when I came in
from the college one day, still skeptical of change, yet hoping it might
be so.

"Why, you've a new way of doing your hair--no; same old pug--but somehow--
you're looking uncommon fit to-day," she said glancing up from her
drawings.

My heart leaped for joy. It was true then! It was true! But remembering
Miss Coleman, I forced myself to reply as quietly as I could:--

"My genius must be beginning to sprout."

A little later Kitty was in constant mystification.

"How do you do it?" she would demand. "What have you got? Can't you let me
into the secret? I just think you might introduce me to the fairy
godmother."

If I were to tell any one, it would be Kitty, of course. Such a dear
little red-headed angel she would make! But it would not be fair to Prof.
Darmstetter. He is not ready yet. So I can only sham ignorance and joke
with her about milk baths and cold cream and rain water. Now that she has
reached the stage of fright, I have great fun with her.

"The age of miracles has come again," she says a hundred times a day. "I
can't believe my eyes! How is it that you are growing so beautiful? Is it
witchcraft?"

"Am I better looking?" I inquire languidly. "Well, I'm glad of it. I had
an aunt who was well-favoured when she was young; it's high time I took
after her, if I'm ever going to."

"No living aunt ever looked as you do now," Kitty will mutter, shaking her
head. "I don't know what to think. I'm half afraid of you."

To tell the truth, she's more than half afraid of me, and I delight in
mystifying her all I can.

But the strangest thing of all, the most ridiculous thing, considering his
age, the oddest thing when one remembers that he himself is its creator--
Professor Darmstetter is half in love with the beauty he has made; he
would be, if he might, the gray and withered Pygmalion of my Galatea!



CHAPTER VII.


THE COMING OF THE LOVER.

December 15.

Really, I don't know which is the more aggravating, John Burke or Kitty.
Such a battle as I've had with them to-day!

I had quite stopped fretting over John's absence. Indeed, though of course
I wished to see him, I dreaded it; I was so happy, just as I was, and I
had so many things to think about, so many dreams to dream and plans to
make.

I liked John when he taught the little prairie school and praised me to my
wondering relatives. All through my college course I was proud of his
regard, because every one respected him; and last June I promised to marry
him.

We said then that our love wasn't just a "co-ed. flirtation," because he
was a grown man and not a student any more. But--but--but last June I
wasn't--

Why, I've but just come to possess the gift that I wouldn't exchange for
the proudest throne on earth, and I mean to make it my throne in the great
world. I haven't yet had time to think things out or realise my fairy
fortune; but John and I mustn't do anything foolish. Wise love can wait.

He came while I was at school.

When I found him here, he actually didn't know me.

He stared as if I were a stranger whose face drew, yet puzzled him. Then
he was attracted by my beauty, then for a moment dismayed, and then--why,
he was really so much in love that I--I--he gazed at me as if I were not
quite real; with reverence. His eyes mirrored my power; the wonder of the
new Me, the glory and the radiance of me shone in them. He worships me
and--well, of course nobody could help liking that.

He was just as he has always been, but somehow, here in the city, I
couldn't help finding him bigger, stronger, more bucolic. His clothes
looked coarse. His collar was low for the mode, his gloveless hands were
red. There was something almost clerical in his schoolmasterly garb, but
his bold dark eyes and short hair aggressively brushed to a standstill, as
he used to say, looked anything but ministerial. It was plain that he was
a man of sense and spirit, one to be proud of; plain that he was a
countryman, too.

I couldn't help seeing his thick shoes any more than I could his hurt face
when I was distant and his ardour the moment I grew kind; and I was so
ashamed--thinking of his looks and picking flaws, when three months ago I
was a country girl myself--that I know--I don't know what I should have
done, if Kitty hadn't returned.

I was so relieved to see her, for John has been writing of marriage soon
and of a home, in one room if need be; and we have too much to accomplish,
with beauty and woman's wit and brain and strength, for that. It is my
duty to think for both, if he's too much in love--the dear, absurd fellow!
And yet--

As soon as he was gone, Kitty jumped up from the drawing table. She was on
pins and needles for anxiety, her eyes dancing.

"Well, when's the wedding?" she cried.

"What wedding?"

I was vexed and puzzled, and distressed, too, after sending John away as I
had done. I wanted to be alone and have a chance to think quietly.

"Oh, any old wedding; will it be here, in the den? You going to invite us
all?" asked Kitty.

"Isn't going to be any wedding."

"I'm sorry; I always did lot on weddings."

"You'll have to be the bride, then. Honest, Kitty, I don't like jokes on
such subjects. Mr. Burke and I haven't an idea of being married, not for
centuries."

Kitty went white all in a minute. She is so quick tempered.

"Oh," said she, "you're going to throw him over. I thought as much! You
were always writing to him when you first came to the city, and talking
about him, at night when we brushed our hair; but lately you haven't
spoken of him at all. You used to look happier when the postman brought
you something from him. And you had his picture--"

"The postman's?" I interrupted, but Kitty kept on as if she were wound
up:--

"--on the mantel-piece, in a white-and-gold frame with your own. You hid
'em both when you began to grow beautiful. I suppose you think you're too
good for him. But don't go and break his heart; please don't, Princess;
there's a dear."

"Goose! I haven't the least notion of breaking his heart. I--why can't you
let me alone? I'm--I'm very fond of him--if you will insist on talking
about it."

"Oh, I can see! If you'd noticed the poor fellow's face--"

"'Poor fellow!' If you'd seen him before you came! He doesn't need your
pity. Why, it seems to have been with you a case of love at first sight,"
I said mockingly. "He was rude to you, too; he never even noticed that you
were in the room, after I came."

"I don't care. I don't expect a man to notice me when he meets his
sweetheart for the first time in ever so long; and such a sweetheart! But
you--you--oh, I'm afraid of you! I'm afraid of you! What is this mystery?
What is it? Why have you grown so grand and terrible? What has become of
my chum?"

She sat down flat on the floor and burst into passionate weeping.

"Get up!" I cried.

"I won't!"

A sense of great loneliness came over me and I threw myself down beside
her.

"Oh, Kitty," I said, "why aren't you old and wise and sensible instead of
being just a silly girl like myself? Then you wouldn't sit here howling,
but you'd kiss me and cuddle me and comfort me and tell me what to do."

"I'm afraid of you! I'm afraid of you! It's--it's no' canny."

"Kitty, Kitty! Why aren't you my fairy godmother, so that you could show
me in a magic glass what to do, instead of scolding me, when I'm wretched
enough already?"

"Wretched! You!" Her eyes fairly blazed. "I wouldn't ever--_ever_ be
wretched if I looked like you--not ever in this world!"

"Yes, you would. You'd be so puzzled about things; and bad girls would
scold you, and there wouldn't be a single soul within two thousand miles
to rely upon. And you'd be awkward and shy when folks looked at you. And
then you'd--you'd--you'd cry."

Afterwards we both wiped our eyes and made it all up; and I told her again
that I really was fond of John.

Well, folks must eat. I went out to get some chops, a half dozen oranges
and the other things for supper--we have lunch and supper, no dinner--and
though I started so blue and wretched, I simply couldn't stay melancholy
long, people stared at me and admired me so much. They crowded after me
into the little corner grocery, and the room was so full that some one
upset a tub of pickles and there they stood around in the vinegar to look
at me.

It was frightful! But it was nice too; though I was so embarrassed that I
wanted to run away. I'll get used to it; but--why, my own mother wouldn't
know me! It's no wonder Kitty is frightened.

I wish I could see Ma. But she couldn't advise me. I ought to have a home,
though, and some one older than Kitty to look after me. I must leave the
den; but where to go? Suppose I burned myself broiling chops or beefsteak,
or blistered my face with steam from the kettle! That would be frightful,
now. It's the least I can do for Prof. Darmstetter to keep free from harm
the beauty he gives me. And besides,--I never before was afraid, but now I
go scurrying through the halls and up and down the stairs like a wild
thing; the place is so public, so many people notice me.

I wonder if I couldn't talk to Mrs. Baker. She's at home now. Or there's
the Judge's sister, Miss Marcia, the dearest old maid. I've only seen her
once or twice, but I believe she'd be good to know.

I have too many problems to stay here. I must make some settled plan, now
that my life means so much to all the women in the world. And--how to deal
with a headstrong young man who won't take "no" for an answer or "wait"
for wisdom I simply don't know. If he would only give me time to make my
own acquaintance! There are so many things to think of. A great world is
open to me. I have the key and I am going to live the most beautiful life.

I must think and plan and learn how not to be frightened at my own face in
the mirror; I must--I simply _must_ have time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dec. 17.

I have just seen John again; he came up to Barnard, which won't do at all.
And he came home with me, and--how he loves me!

But I can manage him. Indeed, he was more reasonable to-day.




BOOK III.


THE JOY OF THE SUNSHINE.



CHAPTER I.


CHRISTMAS.

No. -- East 72d Street, Dec. 28.

Milly and I have just come from a run in the Park, and here I am this
shining white morning scribbling away in my own cosey room.

My very own room--for the most delightful thing has happened; I'm visiting
Mrs. Baker--Aunt Frank I am to call her, though she is really Ma's
cousin--and she has asked me to spend the rest of the winter here.

So I've really left the den. And I didn't deserve it. Why, when Mrs. Baker
invited me to dinner on Christmas day, I dreaded the visit. I hadn't seen
her since I came from the West, and I wondered what she'd think of me, and
what she'd write to Mother. If Pa and Ma could see me now, would they say
their little Nelly'd "filled out well-favoured?"

What _would_ they say to me?

Why, Christmas morning, when I read the home letters, I felt as if I had
betrayed my parents' confidence, as if I'd robbed them of their child by
changing into such a lovely creature. Then I laughed; they won't mind my
getting rid of freckles and a pug nose. And then I cried, almost, and felt
so lonely, for even Kitty had gone off with Pros.; and so far away and so
happy, and a good deal troubled with it all; for John had sent me some
roses and a ring, and I knew I should find him at my Aunt's, eager to see
whether I wore them.

John's such a problem. All that day I sat alone in the den, trying to
think, and trying to let down the hem of my waterproof, for it was snowing
and I have only one good dress; and every few minutes I would slip on the
ring and pull it off, watching the rainbow lights that flashed and paled
in the heart of the stone, and smiling because John had chosen an opal; I
wonder if he knows it's the gem of the beautiful woman.

In the end I let it stay on my hand, of course, for, after all, I suppose
I am betrothed to him.

So it happened that I was almost late for dinner at the Bakers', and quite
late when I really got inside the house; for I walked past the door two or
three times before I could muster up courage to ring the bell. When I
finally ran up the steps, my umbrella was powdered white, and snow and
water were dripping off my skirts. My heart was beating fast with dread
and expectation; I was sure no one would know me.

"I--I'm too wet for the parlour," I said to the maid who came to let me
in; and after a single startled, puzzled look, she went to tell some one
of my arrival. There I stood in my shabby mackintosh, looking at a huge,
gilt-framed picture of the Judge, until a plump little robin of a woman,
in a black dress with a dash of red at the throat, came trotting out to
meet me.

That was Aunt; in spite of my fright and self-consciousness I wanted to
laugh to see her bright eyes look at me in amazement that grew almost to
panic. She didn't know me; the servant could not have caught my name.

"Did you--wish to see me?" she finally managed to say.

"I'm Helen Winship--" I faltered. I felt as if I had done something very
wrong.

"Nelly!" she cried, clutching my hands and almost lifting herself on
tiptoe, as she blinked into my eyes in the uncertain light of the outer
hall. "This isn't--can't be--not _our_ Helen Winship--oh, it's some
message from her--some--"

Her voice died away in incoherent mutterings. She drew me into a big hall
like a sitting room behind the small parlour.

"Come into the light, child, whoever you are. I want to look at you," she
said.

An open fire was burning in the grate, and in the room were Milly and
Ethel and white-haired Miss Marcia and a tall, blonde young man.

All rose to their feet, then stopped. There was an awkward pause, the
answering thrill of tense amazement shot from mind to mind like lightning.
They stood as if frozen, gazing. The room was for a moment so still that I
could hear my own quick breathing and the hammering of my heart. I was
grateful for some far shout upon the street that drowned the noise.

"But--you--but--I thought--" Milly began in a half-hushed, awe-struck
whisper; she never finished the sentence, but continued to gaze at me with
big, round eyes, her lips parted, her breath quick and tremulous.

I was transported with joy and fright; I almost wished I might sink into
the floor, but just then down the stair came the Judge with John behind
him, and little Joy perched on his shoulder. I think the others were as
grateful as I for the interruption.

"Put me down! Put me down!" screamed Joy as she saw me sprinkled with
sleet. "Mamma, ith that Mithith Thanta Clauth?"

At the welcome laugh that helped to break the ice she ran with a flirt of
her short skirts to hide her head against her father's knee.

"Helen!" repeated Mrs. Baker, only half recovering from her stupefaction,
"this isn't--why, it can't be you!"

"I--oh, I'm afraid I'm late," I stammered.

Miss Marcia began to unbutton my raincoat, and her kindness somewhat
relieved my embarrassment, though I don't know how I managed to respond to
the hubbub of greetings, especially when Mr. Hynes, the stranger, was
presented.

He had been looking at me more intently than he knew, with dark blue
brilliant eyes, and he flushed as he touched my hand, until I was glad to
take refuge with Joy, who hovered about, eying me as if she still
suspected some ruse on the part of Santa Claus.

"Joy, you know Cousin Nelly?" I said; and at sound of my voice, they all
looked again at each other and then at me.

"Why, I can't believe my eyes, though Bake here said you'd altered.
Altered!" twittered Aunt Frank. She turned indignantly upon the Judge, who
wisely attempted no defense. "I didn't dream--Bake, here, never can tell a
story straight. Have you--what is it? Nelly, dear, it's two years since
I've seen you; of course you've--grown!"

But no amazement could long curb her hospitable instincts. Her incoherence
vanished as she grasped at a practical consideration.

"But let Milly take you up stairs and get your things off," she said with
an air as of one who solves problems.

"Are you truly Cothin Nelly?" Joy lisped. "All wight; come thee my twee."

Though she couldn't recognise me as the cousin of a few weeks earlier, the
child was eager to claim me as a new friend. So I escaped with her and
Milly to the nursery, where I stayed as long as I dared, letting my cheeks
cool.

"The twee ith mine and Mamma'th," said Joy; "we're the only oneth young
enough to have Christhmath twees, Papa thayth."

"Hoh, guess I'm younger'n Mamma, ain't I?" scoffed my other little cousin
who had been sent to inquire into our delay. He is perhaps a dozen years
old, is called "Boy" officially, and Timothy, Jr., in the family records,
and--like Joy--wasn't in the least afraid of me, after five minutes'
acquaintance.

Boy led me down to the others, but dinner was nearly over before I felt at
ease. I'm not used to having at my back a statuesque servant--though this
one was not too statuesque to be surprised by my appearance almost out of
decorum. And I couldn't help knowing that every one wanted to look at me
all the time, which was delicious, but embarrassing. I blushed and gave
stupid answers when addressed, and even feared that I might show myself at
fault in the etiquette of a city table. It was strange to have forks in so
many cases where I've always used spoons. And, though of course I knew
what the finger bowls were, I wasn't quite sure how to use them.

No one was more puzzled by my appearance than Uncle Timothy himself. As he
looked at me--and this he did through most of the meal--certain long gray
hairs in his eyebrows seemed to wave up and down, as I had often noticed
with the frightened curiosity of a child, like the questioning antennae of
an insect.

"And what is the school work now?" he asked when the dessert came. "The
last time I had the very real pleasure of seeing you, it was--perhaps
animalculae?"

"The cell," I replied, relieved at the introduction of a topic that I
could talk about, "and the cell wall. Protoplasmic movements, you know,
and unicellular plants and animals. I'd been making sketches that day of
the common amoeba of standing water."

"I am not familiar with the--ah--with the amoeba; but doubtless its habits
are interesting. And when do the school days end? A young lady looks
forward with pleasure, I fancy, to release from--"

"Is the amoeba a--some horrid bug, I suppose?" interrupted Aunt Frank;
"and you--er--do things to it in that laboratory? How can you? The very
thought of such a place! It makes me shiver!"

"Oh, but you should see it, so clean and bright; the laboratory's simply
beautiful!"

"But this is your first winter in the city, and you ought to be enjoying
concerts and theatres, meeting people, seeing things."

"Oh, I only keep such hours as I elect, being a post graduate; and I've
been to several theatres," I said; "Kitty and I get seats in the top
gallery."

"The--the top gallery?"

"At matinees," I hastily explained, "and not--not lately."

And then I felt more confused than ever, for Mr. Hynes was watching me.
John was looking at me, too, with that great light in his face that had
been there ever since my arrival, when he first saw the opal gleaming on
my finger; and I--oh, how could I have hinted that I don't dare go where
so many people might look at me? But it's the truth. And though the truth
may be inconvenient, it's wonderfully sweet!

After dinner we passed into the big drawing room behind the hall. Joy did
some clumsy little dances in her short white frock--she is really too
chubby to caper nimbly--and Ethel and Milly played and sang neither well
nor ill.

I think they were more afraid of me than I had been of the servants at
dinner. They are not very pretty, with their light, wavy hair and pale
flower faces, though I'm afraid I set my standard too high now--now that I
know what is possible.

I went to the piano myself afterwards and played. Played! It was terrible!
Never would I have believed that I could make such a mess of it. I didn't
sing until they began trying carols. I didn't mean to do so then, but I
chimed in before I thought, when they sang:--

He set a star up in the sky
Full broad and bright and fair.

"That song was taken from the Ormulum," said the Judge; "a poem of the
thirteenth century--"

"Nelly! Was that you?" cried Aunt Frank, interrupting.

The music of the new, fresh, vibrant voice had thrilled them all--all
except the unconscious Judge--and there they sat, spellbound. But as they
shook off the witchery, there was all at once a babble of voices, and
before I quite knew what had happened, I was at the piano again, singing
"The King in Thule:"

There was a king in Thule
True even to the grave
To whom his mistress, dying,
A golden goblet gave.

Perhaps it wasn't very appropriate to Christmas, but Cadge had drilled me
upon it. In the middle of the first stanza I happened to glance up, and
noticed that Mr. Hynes was again looking at me with an absorbed, indrawing
gaze, colouring with amazed pleasure. It woke in me a flutter of
consternation and delight, for he has the sensitive face of a musician;
but my presence of mind was gone, and for one horrible instant I thought I
was going to break down, and just sat there, gasping and blushing. My
heart sank and my voice dwindled to a quavering, unfamiliar whisper. I
couldn't remember the words; but then I seized hold of my courage and sang
and sang and sang, better than I had ever done before.

I didn't look up again until I had finished; then somehow I got away from
the piano, and shyly slipped into a chair near Miss Baker. Of course there
was a clamour that I should sing again, but I couldn't. The flaming of my
cheeks made me ashamed.

Perhaps some time I shall learn the city way of not seeming to care very
much about anything.

Aunt must have had it at her tongue's end all the evening to invite me to
come to her; and when she was bidding me good-night she could wait no
longer.

"You're living right on Union Square?" she said; "in the same building
with--with--"

"A milliner, a dentist, a school for theatrical dancing," I enumerated,
laughing happily. I knew that it was I myself, and not my mode of life,
that bewildered her.

"But--is it--_nice_?"

"Better than a boarding-house. Two or three other girls lodge there, the
housekeeper is obliging, and the experience--well, at least it's
enlightening."

"I wish you'd come here. Why don't you?"

"Oh, could I?" I cried with sudden frankness. "You can't think how glad
I'd be! The studio was awfully nice at first, and I've made the best of
it, but I know Ma--Mother and Father would be pleased. If it wouldn't be
too much trouble--"

And so easily it was all arranged. Of course after she had seen me, heard
me, felt the charm of me--of Her--Aunt Frank couldn't leave Her in the
studio!

I'd have been glad to avoid the journey back to Union Square with John;
for the evening, with all its perplexities, had been paradise, and I
dreaded to have him bring me back to earth with words of love. I ought to
be more than usually tender towards John now, when he has just lost his
mother; but when the Bakers' door had closed behind us, and we stood
together under the crispy starlight--for it had cleared and turned cold
during the evening--I talked feverishly of things that neither of us cared
about, and kept it up all the way home.

John scarcely seemed to listen to my chatter. He was as if under a spell,
and his dark, strong face glowed with the magic of it. As we approached
the Square, he looked down at me, and slipped my hand from his arm into
the clasp of his warm fingers. Through my glove he felt the ring, and gave
the hand a little, almost timid pressure.

"Am I doing right? Ought I to wear it?" I cried. "Won't you help me think,
just as if you didn't--didn't care? This isn't like last summer. We are
different; I am very different. You must have seen to-night, that I am not
at all the same girl. I've told you that I can't be certain; I am dazed."

"I shall remember everything--all you told me when I came, and now," he
said. "But you are doing right--darling!"

He held my hands when we parted and looked into my eyes, and I saw that
his own were shining. His love seemed too deep for any outburst of
passion, or else he feared to alarm me; and yet he seemed so sure.

I wish--I wish--oh, I don't know what I wish; I ought not to be bound to
any one; but I suppose I love John.



CHAPTER II.


A LOOKING OVER BY THE PACK.

Jan. 2.

If women are not meant to study, Prof. Darmstetter should be pleased with
me. Instead of working up my laboratory notebooks, I have sat until
midnight, dreaming.

"Go to bed early and get your beauty sleep," says Aunt, but I push open
the window and lean upon the sash and let the cold air blow over me. I'd
like to dance a thousand miles in the moonlight; I'm so young, and so
strong, and such glorious things are coming!

To-morrow I shall have a foretaste of the future; I shall know what other
people--not John and my relatives--think of me. Ah, there's only one thing
they can think! To-morrow'll be the beginning of the world to me.

To-morrow! To-morrow! Aunt Frank has sent out cards for an "At Home." And
it's to-morrow!

Oh, I'm glad I came here! I revel in the new home.

I like the house; it looks so big and solid. I like my cousins--quiet
little creatures. They wait upon me, anticipate my smallest wish, and
defer to my opinions as if I were a white star queen dropped from the
ether; all but Boy, and even he respects me because I can construe Caesar.

I like my Aunt--devoted to clubs and committees, though she's forgotten
them now in her eagerness to introduce me. Ah, to-morrow! Blessed to-
morrow! And I like Aunt Marcia Baker. I wonder if, when I am older, I too
shall be serene and stately, with a face that seems to have outlived
sorrow; I can hardly believe now that I shall care to live at all when
people's eyes have ceased to follow my beauty. When for me there are no
more to-morrows.

I think I shall like Mr. Hynes; he's almost one of the family, for he is
betrothed to Milly, and I'm glad--ah, so glad I'm not she! What a life she
looks forward to--each day exactly like its fellows; a droning, monotonous
existence, keeping house, overseeing the cooking--perhaps doing it
herself; for he's only a young lawyer, just starting in life!

But I like his face, so full of impulse and imagination. I believe he's a
man who might go far and achieve much. Why should he handicap himself with
an early marriage?

It's well enough for Milly; she doesn't understand her limitations. Why,
she's almost as eager over to-morrow as if it could mean to her what it
does to me; and that is an outlook into a life so glad, so wonderful!

Dear, good Aunt Frank proposed the tea before my trunks were fairly
unpacked.

"Won't your Professor give you a holiday from--is it microbes you study?"
she inquired. "Sure they're not dangerous?"

"The afternoon tea bacillus is not wholly innocuous," suggested Uncle,
pinching her cheek.

It was good to see the loving look that reproved and repaid him.

"Why, Bake," she protested, "tea never hurt anybody."

"Oh, I've time enough," I said; "I have no regular days for going to Prof.
Darmstetter, and the other studies--"

It was on my tongue to add: "and the other studies don't matter," but I
checked the words.

"Well, you'll find it takes time," Aunt reminded me. "How about clothes,
now? Suppose you show me what you brought."

And in a few minutes we were all chattering at once in discussion of my
modest little wardrobe. I could feel, as each new dress was shaken from
its folds, that Aunt was more dissatisfied than she would confess.

"Everything's pretty and tasteful," she conceded at last; "but--for a
tea--if you could--"

If she had dared, she'd have offered to get me a dress herself.

"Oh, of course I'll need something new," I said hurriedly; "I meant to ask
your advice. Nothing very costly," I was reluctantly adding. But at that
moment an inspiration came to lighten the gloom.

The very thing! I'd use the money I'd saved for the microscope! I don't
need one the least bit.

So I was able to add with some philosophy:--

"I never did have a nice dress, and I'd like something pretty good this
time. Why, I haven't nearly spent all my allowance," I cried with kindling
enthusiasm, jumping up to pace the floor. "Tell me what I ought to have--
just exactly what is most suitable. I don't know much about teas, but I'd
like something--fine!"

Aunt's face glowed with excitement. I think she saw in imagination fifty
Helens dancing before he eyes in a kaleidoscopic assortment of dresses.

"You're right. We'll get--oh, what shall we--what shall we get that'll be
good enough for you?" she cried in a flutter. "Something simple of course,
you're so young; but--I'll tell you: We'll go right to Mrs. Edgar!"

Perhaps my own face burned, too.

"Who's she? Some one on the Avenue?"

"No; no one knows her, but--she's a marvel! It'd mean the world and all to
her to please some one sure to be noticed, like you. She's a widow; has
two children."

So to Mrs. Edgar we went. Her eyes devoured me. She is a mite of a woman,
young, white-faced, vivacious.

"For a tea?" she asked. "A--a large one?"

She spoke with forced calmness, but her hands had the artist's flutter,
the enthusiast's eagerness to be doing.

"I'll get samples," she went on; "there's not a minute to be lost; not--
one--moment! I'll work all night rather than fail her. You will not
wish"--she dismissed us abruptly--"to go with me to the shops?"

"No; Miss Winship attracts too much attention."

Alas, it's true! It has become an ordeal for me to venture into a shop.
But what a blessed thing if my beauty should bring success and ease to
this poor, struggling little widow--just by my wearing a dress she has
made! Oh, she'll not be the only one! What if Kitty sometime wins fame by
painting my picture, or Cadge by writing of me in her "Recollections?" Why
shouldn't I inspire great poems and noble deeds and fine songs, like the
famous beauties Miss Coleman told about? Yes, even more than they; there
was not one of them all like me!

Next evening when Aunt brought the samples upstairs, I was reading to the
Judge in the library, and the others were listening as if stocks and bonds
were more fascinating than romances.

"Shall we pray for a second Joshua, arresting the sun, pending
deliberation?" asked Uncle, displeased at the interruption.

"Why, Bake, there's scarcely ten days, and how we'd feel if Nelly didn't
look well!" cried Aunt Frank; and we all broke out laughing at the bare
idea of my looking ill!

"I never saw any one to whom dress mattered so little," Aunt Marcia said,
as she folded up her silk knitting. "But Mrs. Edgar insists upon her four
fittings like any Shylock haggling for his pound of flesh; it is written
in the bond."

When she had trotted away home with her prim elderly maid, like a pair out
of "Cranford," Ethel made an impressive announcement:--

"The General will pour."

"Returned hero from the Philippines?"

"Oh, dear, no. Meg Van Dam could face Mausers, but a Red Cross bazaar was
as near as she got to the war. We call her the General because--oh, you'll
find out. Meg is Mrs. Robert Van Dam."

"Oh, I think I've seen that name in the papers. Aren't they grand people?"

"Why, yes; rather; we don't know the Van Dams; Meg's only just married.
You might have read about her mother-in-law, Mrs. Marmaduke Van Dam, or
her aunt-in-law, Mrs. Henry Van Dam, or Mrs. Henry's daughters; the
family's a tribe. But Meg, why, we went to school with Meg; she's just the
General."

My dress came home to-night--white and dainty. Ah, at last I've something
to wear that's not "good" and "plain" and "durable"! But there was an
outcry, as there has been at every fitting, because I won't wear stays.
Eccentric, they call me; as if Nature and beauty were abnormal!

When I was arrayed in it, Aunt and Ethel led me to the library for Uncle's
inspection.

"Is to-morrow the day set to exhibit to Helen other aspects of New York
than the scholastic?" he asked, looking up from his paper. "The first
appearances of a young girl in modern society are said to be comparable
with a 'Looking Over by the Pack,' as described by Mr. Kipling. May Mrs.
Baloo and Mrs. Bagheera and Mrs. Shere Khan have good hunting to-night,
and be kind to-morrow to our womanling."

"Why, Bake, you know just as well as I do there aren't any such people
coming. I believe it's just one of your jokes," sputtered Aunt. "Nelly,
dear, turn slowly round."

She had dropped on her knees beside me, busy with pins and folds, and Joy
was lisping the caution, born perhaps of experience, "Don't you thoil it,
Cothin Nelly, or Nurthey'll vip you," when Milly came into the library;
and with her was Mr. Hynes.

"Lovely! Isn't it, Ned?" cried Milly. "It's for to-morrow."

Mr. Hynes scarcely glanced at the dress, then looked away again, with
indifference that somehow hurt me.

"Very pretty," he said languidly. "Classic, isn't it? By the way, Judge, I
think you'd be interested--"

And then he began to tell Judge Baker about some horrid auction sale of
old books!

I was surprised. I couldn't account for it. To hide my disappointment--for
I do want to look my best to-morrow, and then everybody has taken so much
pains---I bent over Joy, tying and untying the ribbons that held the rings
of soft hair in front of her ears.

"Thop, Cothin Nelly; you hurt!" she screamed.

As soon as I could, I ran to take off the dress. How could Aunt so parade
me? Of course the women Mr. Hynes knows must have all their dresses from
city dressmakers.

But I believe, after all, he did notice, for I saw him colour before he
turned sharply away. To please Milly, he might at least--

He called the dress classic; it's just long, soft folds without messy
trimmings; and, oh, it's not vanity to peep at myself again and again and
to dream of to-morrow. I'm gloriously, gloriously beautiful! If John
comes to-morrow, I do hope he'll wear gloves. He has good hands, too;
well-shaped--

Why, of course; Mr. Hynes must admire me.



CHAPTER III.


SNARLING AT THE COUNCIL ROCK.

Jan. 10.

To-day has been heaven!

There was a famous lawyer among Aunt's guests and a United States Senator
and a real author, a woman who has written books; but people brushed past
them all for a word with me!

And I'm going to the Opera! I shall sit in a box. Mrs. Van Dam says I'll
make the sensation of the season! I'm going to the Opera!

When men came this morning with palms and flowers to decorate the house, I
ran off to the Park. I did almost run, really. There was a song at my
lips: "Gladdest, oh, gladdest, most beautiful in the world; blessed, most
blessed, most beautiful in the world!" and the "tap-tap" of horses' feet
on the asphalt, the "b-r-r-r-rp" of the cable cars and the rattle of
elevated trains kept time, until all the city seemed ringing with my joy.

I know it's foolish; if I had been beautiful from my childhood; if I could
have grown up to think of it as a matter of course; if I had been used to
the awe of men and women's envy, I might think less about it, might even
fancy that I would have preferred learning or wealth--for we all love what
we have not. But now--it is so new, so marvellous!

I had plenty of things to think about when I could calm myself. Only
yesterday I'd had a long talk with Prof. Darmstetter.

"The experiment is not yet complete," he declared. He had asked me to stay
for--but that is a part of the secret which is to pass with this record
from me to all women.

"You are beautiful," he said; "mein Gott, yes! More beautiful t'an any
ot'er voman since t'e appearance of man on eart'. But perfectly beautiful?
I do not know; I t'ink not yet. Who can tell for v'at ultimate perfection
Nature destined t'e human body? But we shall see. T'at perfection you
shall reach. In a veek, a mont', t'ree mont's--I cannot tell. Ve must vait
and experiment and still vait, but success is assured--absolute success. I
shall gif it. I do not know if t'e human type is t'e highest t'at eart' is
capable of supporting, but it is t'e highest present type, and it shall be
my vork to gif it t'at for v'ich it has hungered and t'irsted, and towards
v'ich slowly it has groped its vay; it shall be my vork to gif humanity
beauty and perfection."

The light that illumined his yellow, wrinkled face made me cry out:--

"All the world will bless you! All women will be grateful as I am
grateful--"

"Ach!" he snapped with a sudden change of countenance. "I shall be von
more name and date to make harter t'e student's lessons and longer t'e
tables--t'at is gratitude! Vit' t'e vorld we haf at present no concern.
For t'is, indeed, you bless me--t'at I am not a quack to make public an
incomplete discofery, for ot'er quacks to do mischief. You are glad t'at
it is vit' you alone I concern myself. But you are not grateful; you are
happy because I say t'at you shall be yet more beautiful; t'at is not
gratitude. You might--"

At the eager shrillness of his voice I drew a step away.

"Indeed I'm grateful, whether you believe it or not!" I cried. "You think
all women so selfish! Of course I'm glad that I alone am in the secret,
but you proposed it yourself, and I rejoice as much as you do that some
day--by and by--other women will be happy as I am happy--"

"Yes--by and by! You emphasize t'at," he snapped mockingly, but then he
recovered himself and his queer new deference. "And you haf t'e right; I
vish you to rechoice in your own lofeliness. Ve haf engaged toget'er in
t'is great vork, and it is vell t'at we bot' haf our revards--I t'at I
aggomblish somet'ing for t'e benefit of my kind, and you--since vomen
cannot lofe t'eir kind, but only intifiduals--you haf t'e happy lofe t'at
is necessary to a voman."

His eyes rested on my ring.

I couldn't tell him--proud as I am of it--that John had loved me before I
ever heard of the Bacillus. But I could punish his gibes.

"Oh, by the way--I'm not coming to-morrow," I said. "My Aunt is to give a
tea."

Strange to see him struggle with his disappointment like a grieving child!
But he bravely rallied.

"T'at is goot," he said, "you shall tell me v'at people t'ink of you. You
vish to go about--to be admired; you vish to gif up science; not so?"

"Oh, no! I couldn't be a doll, for men to look at and then tire of me. I
must study the harder--to be worthy--"

The look of his face, of the thin, straight-lipped mouth, the keen old
eyes, stopped me.

"You vill not gif up study now, at least," he sneered; "not until you haf
t'e perfect beauty. You haf need of me."

Prof. Darmstetter is so irritating! Why, he has just as much need of me!
He himself said I was the best subject he could find for the experiment.
But even if he had finished his work with the Bacillus, he'd rather teach
me, a despised woman, all the science I could master than develop the
budding talent of the brightest Columbia boy. The sight of my beauty is a
joy to him. Really, I pity the poor man. He makes the great discovery when
he's himself too old to profit by it; the Bacillus will not work against
Nature. It has brought him only a hopeless longing--

But I shall study. He shall see! Not in the laboratory, of course; that is
hardly fitting now. I wouldn't go there again except for the lure of
promised beauty--can more loveliness be possible? But I do feel the
responsibility of beauty. The wisest and best will crowd about me, and
they must find my words worthy the lips that shape them and the voice that
utters. And I shall learn from their wisdom.

"There was Hypatia; she was both beautiful and learned," I found myself
confiding to a gray squirrel in the Park, and then I laughed and ran home
to make my last preparations.

Ethel arranged my hair to-day, though I could hardly yield her the delight
of its shining, long undulations. Then she did Milly's as nearly like mine
as possible, and Milly did hers. The girls wore white like me, and my aunt
was in black. The house was full of flowers; as if it had plunged into
seas of them, it dripped with an odourous rosy foam. John sent a box--the
extravagant boy!--and there were big American Beauty roses, with stems as
long as walking sticks from Pros. and Cadge. Milly had flowers, too, from
Mr. Hynes.

At first I wasn't a bit afraid, while acquaintances were dropping in one
by one--Mrs. Magoun, Mrs. Crosby, the wife of the managing clerk in
Uncle's office, Aunt Marcia--all allies.

Then there came a stir at the door, the magnetic thrill that foreruns a
Somebody. And there upon the threshold stood a tall, dashing girl,
superbly turned out; not handsome, but fine-looking, dark, decisive,
vital--a creature born to command.

I knew her at the first glance. She was the General!

I was for a moment surprised to see her so young and girlish, though I
might have known; for she was Milly's schoolmate. I doubt if she's two
years my senior, but in social arts and finesse--ah, the difference!

The house seemed to belong to her from the moment she entered. She moved
like a whirlwind--a well-mannered and exquisitely dressed whirlwind, of
course--with an air of abounding vigour and vitality, up to where we
stood, and there stopped short.

"How d'y'do?" she said, in the clipped New York fashion, looking at me
with the confidence of one who is never at a loss--and then--

Oh, the joy! For all her _savoir faire_, it was her turn to be
confused. For a moment she peered at me with a short-sighted squint; then
after a little hesitation, she put up her lorgnette, making an impatient
gesture, as if to say: "I can't help it; I _must_"--and stared.

Her eyes grew big as she gazed; but at last she drew a long breath, and
put down the quizzing-glass with an effect of self-denial. When she spoke
there was little to remind me of her momentary loss of self-command.

"Are you enjoying New York?" she demanded.

"Milly tells me you've never been in the city before; that you are
studying at Barnard."

"Yes."

I knew that I had impressed this strong, splendid woman, but I was a
little afraid of her.

Quite herself again, she began asking questions about myself, my home, my
studies; quick, probing, confusing questions, while in my cheeks the
awkward colour came and went. But it would never have occurred to me to
parry her queries. I could not help liking her, though when at last she
left me and began a progress through the rooms, I drew a breath of relief,
like one who has passed with credit a stiff examination.

At the door of the dining-room she paused again, judging through her glass
the table and its dainty decorations.

"Those flowers are rather high," she declared, and calling upon Milly for
help, she began rearranging the roses, and laying the twigs of holly upon
the cloth in bolder patterns. She seemed to take charge, to adopt me with
the house, to accept and audit and vouch for us.

Then people began coming all at once, all together, and I had to take my
place beside Mrs. Baker and Aunt Marcia in the reception room.

I can't tell anything about the next hour; it's a blur. But I wouldn't
have missed a minute. I had never before seen a reception, except at the
University where sometimes I used to serve as an usher, pouncing upon
people as they entered and leading them up to the row of Professors and
Professors' wives backed against the wall. But now I had to stand up
myself and meet people. And oh, that was different!

At first two or three women would approach, putting out their hands at an
absurd height, and start to say: "How d' you--" or "I'm so--"

And Aunt would make some excited, half-coherent remark and look at me,
anxiously but proudly, and say my name.

But they never heard her! As they really saw me, each in turn would start,
and, wide-eyed, look again. And as the awe and wonder grew in their
faces--as there came the little stop, the gasp, that told how their
reserve was for once overthrown, then, to the utmost, I tasted the sweet
of power and felt the thrill of ecstasy.

Red spots burned in Aunt's cheeks; she talked fast in her company voice,
and somehow the lace at her throat got awry. Aunt Marcia was as calm and
stately in her soft black velvet as if nothing were happening. And really
there was little to disturb one's composure. New Yorkers aren't like our
whole-souled, emotional Western folks. Not one of these women but would
have suffered torture rather than betray her surprise beyond that first
irrepressible gasp of amazement. After that one victory of human nature,
they would make talk about the weather, or the newest book, and then get
away to discuss me in undertones in the hall or drawing room.

Quickly the sixth sense of a strange agitation went through the house. I
knew what they were all talking about, thinking about. Subtle waves of
thought seemed to catch up each new comer so that she felt, without being
told, that something extraordinary was happening. Women now approached not
unprepared; but for all their bracing against the shock, not one could be
quite nonchalant at the first sight of my superb, compelling beauty.

My eyes flashed, my pulse rioted as I felt the vibrant excitement of the
gathering, the tiptoe eagerness to reach our neighbourhood, the hush that
fell upon the circle immediately around me, the reaction of overgay laugh
and chatter in the far corners.

Oh, it was lovely, lovely! No girl could have been quite unmoved to feel
that all those soft lights were glowing in her honour, those masses of
flowers blooming, all that warmth and perfume of elegance and luxury
wafted as incense to her nostrils. And the undercurrent of suppressed
excitement, the sensation of Her!

At times I grew impatient of conventionality. How was it possible for
these people to look so quietly, eye to eye, upon the most vitally perfect
of living beings? How could they turn from me to orange frapp or salted
almonds?

Once or twice I caught some faint echo of the talk about us.

"Where is she?" asked one voice, made by curiosity more penetrating than
its owner realised.

"Julia's seen her; she's talked and talked till I had to come."

"And she's still studying?"--Another voice--"How can she? Great beauty and
great scientist--bizarre combination!"

How that would amuse Prof. Darmstetter!

By and by I saw John towering above the others while he bobbed about
helplessly in the sea of women's heads that filled the rooms and even rose
upon the "bleachers," as he calls the stairs. There were not really so
very many people, but he didn't know how to reach us, he is so awkward.
When he had steered his course among the women and had spoken to my Aunt,
his face was radiant as he turned to me.

"I knew _you_ wouldn't fail us, Mr. Burke," Aunt said hurriedly.
"Mrs. Marshall--so glad--this is--Nelly, dear--"

Behind John was a lady waiting to meet me.

"--So glad you've come," I said to him; and the words sounded curiously to
me because in my excitement I also had spoken in my "company voice."

But I had no time to say another word to him, as I turned to greet Mrs.
Marshall.

He mumbled something, flushing, while his eyes devoured my beauty in one
dumb, worshipping look. Then he dropped quickly out of our group. I was
sorry, but he'll understand that I was flurried. He ought to learn self-
control, though; he shouldn't look at me before so many people with all
his heart in his eyes.

And I was so vexed about his clothes, too! His old, long, black coat, such
as lawyers wear in the West, would have been pretty nearly right--
something like what the other men wore--but he seemed to think it was not
good enough, and had put on a brand new business suit. Of course there
wasn't another man there so clad, but he never seemed to notice how absurd
he was.

The Viewing of the Pack didn't last long. Before my cheeks had ceased
flaming, before I had grown used to standing there to be looked at, people
seemed to go, all at once, as suddenly as they had arrived.

Just as the last ones were leaving, some instinct told me that Mr. Hynes
had come. Before I saw him, I felt his gaze upon me, a wondering, glad
look, as if I were Eve, the first and only woman.

Milly brought him to me and left us together, but at first he was almost
curt in his effort to hide his sensibility to my beauty--as if that were a
weakness!--and I was furiously shy, and felt somehow that I must hold him
at still greater distance.

"Am I never again to hear you sing?" he asked. "Sweet sounds that have
given a new definition to music are still vibrating in my memory."

I knew he was thinking of Christmas!

"I don't often sing, except for Joy," I mumbled; "I've had so few
lessons."

"Joy doesn't know her joys; but--wouldn't she share them?"

"Sometime--perhaps--"

I couldn't answer him, for hot and cold waves of shyness and pleasure were
running over me. Oh, I hope, for Milly's sake, he doesn't dislike me. He
seems to feel so intensely, to be so alive!

When he had gone, I went to the dining-room with Aunt Marcia, and found
there Ethel and the General and Peggy Van Dam, the General's cousin, a
pale girl, all eyes and teeth. Kitty was with them, and she darted towards
me, but Mrs. Van Dam was before her.

"Sit down, both of you," she commanded.

She fairly put us into chairs, and brought us cups of something--I don't
know what.

Aunt Marcia breathed a little sigh of relief.

"Helen," she said, "you haven't been standing too long?"

"It wasn't an instant! I could stand all day!"

Mrs. Van Dam smiled, and I felt _gauche_, like a schoolgirl. I am so
impulsive!

"It was all delightful!" cried Kitty; "and yet--while you were my chum,
Helen, I _did_ think you rather good-looking!"

"You find yourself mistaken?" the General inquired.

"Oh, no-o-o; not exactly; a beautiful girl, certainly; but--oh, I could
have made pincushions of some of those pudgy women, nibbling wafers, and
delivering themselves of lukewarm appreciations! 'Too tall'--'too short'--
'too dark'--'too light'; 'I like your height bettah, my deah.' Helen, you
dairymaid, powder! Plaster over that 'essentially improbable' colour."

Mrs. Van Dam broke out laughing at Kitty's mimicry. I wish the child
wouldn't let her hair straggle in front of her ears and look so harum-
scarum.

"I doubt if we have had many harsh critics," said Miss Baker.

"Not a thing to criticise," cried Aunt Frank, entering just then and
catching the last word. "Everybody so interested in Nelly! Bake, if you'd
only come earlier, I'd have been perfectly satisfied."

They say that Uncle Timothy can never be coaxed home to one of his wife's
receptions, but he answered with great solemnity, as he loomed up behind
the little woman:--

"I am privileged to be here, even at the eleventh hour. I could not wholly
deny myself the sight of so much youth and bloom."

"Don't be hypocritical, Judge," said the General reprovingly. "You're too
big and honest to achieve graceful deceit. But before I go--I've seats for
the Opera Monday night in Mother's box. Miss Winship must come, and--" her
glance deliberated briefly--"and Milly."

Milly cried, "How delightful, Meg!" But my tongue tripped and my cheeks
flamed as I tried to say that I had never seen an opera and to thank my
new friend.

Little she heeded my lack of words. Gazing at me once again as she had
upon first seeing me, she exclaimed:--

"You great, glorious creature! They sha'n't hive you in a schoolroom; you
must come out and show yourself; why, you'll set New York in a furore!"

I think she's splendid.

No sooner was she gone than I was summoned to the reception-room, and
Cadge rushed to meet me. She looked much smarter than Kitty, with her
black hair curled and her keen eyes shining with excitement.

"All over but the shouting?" she asked. "Meant to get here in season to
see you knock 'em in the Old Kent Road, but woman proposes, Big Tom
disposes. Shall I turn in a paragraph? Just--did you have music? What's
your dress--in the Sunday society slush, of course, not the daily; 'fraid
the _Star_ won't take over a stick--. Greek a little bit? M-m-m--not
modistic exactly, but--but--."

Her abrupt sentences grew slower, paused, dropped to an awestruck whisper,
as she looked upon me. She added in her gravest manner: "Say, you're the
loveliest ever happened! The--very--limit!"

But awe and Cadge could not long live together. In a moment her mouth took
a comically benevolent quirk.

"And 'among those present'--" she asked; "who was that leaving just as I
got here?"

"Mrs. Robert Van Dam, schoolmate of my cousins. But you're not writing me
up, Cadge?"

Cadge whistled.

"Van Dam! How calmly the giddy child says it! Does your youngest cousin
make mud pies with duchesses? Say, she comes pretty near being one of the
'400.' But I'm off; a grist of copy to grind--talk of raving beauties,
you'll be the only one that won't rave!"

Of course Cadge wouldn't have talked just like that before the others, if
she had come earlier.

At bedtime Milly and Ethel ran to my room to talk things over, and my Aunt
came to shoo them off to bed, but she stayed and talked, too; and I've no
business to be writing at this shocking time of night, except, of course I
couldn't sleep and so I might as well.

"Everybody thinks you resemble your cousins," Aunt said; "and really there
_is_ a family likeness."

Poor Aunt! Ethel and Milly are washed out copies of me, in dress and hair,
if that constitutes resemblance; and they imitate even my mannerisms.

I should think Mr. Hynes would be too critical to admire Milly.

I had a partial engagement for Monday with John; but he'll let me off, to
go to the Opera.




CHAPTER IV.


IN THE INTERESTS OF MUSIC.

Tuesday morning, Jan. 14.

I am writing before breakfast. They told me to lie quietly in bed this
morning, but I'm not tired, not excited. Nothing more happened than I
might have expected. I couldn't have supposed that in my presence people
would be stocks and stones!

But oh, it was beautiful, terrible! How can I write it? If I could only
flash last night--every glorious minute of it--upon paper!

And I might have lost it--they didn't want to let me go! There was a full
family council beforehand. John had taken quietly enough the cancelling of
our half engagement for the evening, but he had strong objections to my
going to the Opera.

"If you prefer that--" he said; "but do you think it wise to appear in
such a public place with strangers?"

"But why not?"

I was impatient at so much discussion and discretion. My mind was made up.

"There's no reason why you shouldn't, I suppose." John drew a great sigh.
"But I shall feel easier if--I think I'll go too."

"We'll all go," cried Aunt Frank--it was so funny to have them sit there
debating in that way the problem of Her--"we'll enjoy it of all things--
the Judge and I, and especially Ethel."

And so, when the great night came, Milly and I left the others in the
midst of their preparations, and went off to dine with Mrs. Van Dam; we
were to go with her afterwards to see Mascagni's "Christofero Colombo."

It seems impossible now, but I was excited even about the dinner. I
thought it the beginning of recognition--and it was!--to be seized upon by
this splendid, masterful young General.

She lives not far from us--on Sixty-seventh Street near Fifth Avenue,
while we are on Seventy-second Street near Madison. The wall of her house
near the ground looks like that of a fortress; there are no high steps in
front, but Milly and I were shown into a hall, oak finished and English,
right on the street level; and then into a room off the hall that was
English, too--oak and red leather, with branching horns above the mantel
and on the floor a big fur rug; and, presently, into a little brocade-
lined elevator that took us to Mrs. Van Dam's sitting-room on the third
floor.

"You ought to see the whole house," Milly whispered, as we were slowly
ascending.

I had eyes just then for nothing but the General herself, who met us, a
figure that abashed me, swishing a gleaming evening dress, her neck and
hair a-glitter with jewels, more dominant and possessive and---yes, even
more interested in me than when I had first seen her.

When we went down to dinner, I did see the house; for at a word from
Milly, partly in good nature and partly in pride, Mrs. Van Dam led the way
through stately rooms that kept me alternating between confusion and
delight, until she paused in a gilded salon, with stuccoed ceiling and
softest of soft rose hangings, where I scarcely dared set foot upon the
shining floor.

Less in jest than wonder, I asked if Marie Antoinette didn't walk there o'
nights.

"It's _Diane_, isn't it, who walks here this night?" she said,
linking her arm in mine and leading me to a tall mirror. Then she changed
colour a little, took her arm away hastily and walked from the great
glass. Kind and friendly as she was, she couldn't quite like to see her
own image reflected there--beside mine!

"_Diane_ and the Queen of Sheba!" exclaimed Milly, for beside our
simple frocks the General was indeed magnificent.

Her brow cleared at this, and she laughed with satisfaction. When I
blurted out something about having once run off to a shop parlour, before
I came to Aunt, for a peep at a full-length glass, she laughed again at
the confession and called me "a buttercup, a perfect _Diane_."

At dinner we met Mr. Van Dam--a small man who doesn't talk much; and it
seemed so exciting to have wine at table, though of course I did not taste
it, or coffee.

And it was delightful to lean back in the carriage, as we drove to the
Opera House, and remember how Kitty and I used to pin up our skirts under
our ulsters and jog about in street cars. Mrs. Van Dam wore a wonderful
hooded cloak of lace and fur, and her gloves fastened all the way to her
elbows with silk loops that passed over silver balls.

I had been so impatient during dinner, because they didn't sit down until
eight o'clock, and then dawdled as if there were no Opera to follow; but I
needn't have worried, for although the performance had begun when we
arrived, there were still many vacant places in the great house. I drew
closer about my face the scarf that Ethel had lent me until we had passed
through the dazzling lobby, up the stairway and through the corridors, and
until the red curtains of the box had parted, and I had slipped into the
least conspicuous chair. Muffled as I was, I trembled at the first glance
at the great, brilliantly lighted house, from which rose the stir of a
gathering audience and a rustle of low voices.

"Why, you're not nervous, are you?" the General asked. "I've brought you
here early on purpose; you'll be comfortably settled before anybody
notices."

And she good-naturedly pushed me into a front place. The music was all the
while going on, but no one seemed to pay much attention.

"Who'll notice me in this big building?" I asked with a shaky little
laugh.

But just at first, as I looked out over the house, I clutched the lace
that was still around my throat. It was warm after the chill air without,
and my head swam. There was mystery in the swarming figures and the
murmur. The breath of the roses that lay over the box rails, the gleaming
of bared shoulders, the flash of jewels seemed to belong to some other
world--a world where I was native, and from which I had too long been
exiled. Surely in some other life I must have had my place among gaily-
dressed ladies who smiled and nodded, bending tiara-crowned heads above
gently waving fans. I felt kinship with them; I passionately longed to be
noticed by them, and feared it even more intensely.

Almost immediately after our arrival the curtain fell upon the first
scene. We had missed every word of it! Mrs. Van Dam left me for a few
minutes to myself, and as I became more composed, I put back my scarf and
looked about a little more boldly. The house was yet far from full, but
every moment people were coming in.

The boxes at each side of us were untenanted, but at no great distance I
saw Peggy Van Dam, seated beside a large woman--her mother, Mrs. Henry--
and chatting busily with a stout, good-natured-looking young man. Even
Peggy had not noticed our entrance and, quite reassured, I lifted my opera
glass and began studying the audience.

We were near the front of the house in the first tier on the left, and I
had in view almost the whole sweep of the great gold and crimson
horseshoe. Down in the orchestra some of the women were as gorgeous in
satins and brocades as those in the boxes, while others wore street
attire. Nearly all the men had donned evening dress, and I thought at
first--but soon saw how absurd that was--that I could pick out John by his
office suit. I could not repress a little glow of pride, as I looked down
upon those rows and rows of heads, to think that somewhere among them, or
above them, John was watching, rejoicing with me, fearing for me where for
himself he would never fear. He'd lift, if he could, every stone from my
path. Mr. Hynes, now, would carry you forward so fast that you'd never see
the stones.

I had no thought that Mr. Hynes was in the house, but, amusing myself with
the idea, I lifted my glass--dear little pearl trinket with which the
General had provided me--and looked for him, wondering how often a poor
young lawyer attends the Opera. Of course I couldn't see anybody I knew,
nor could I read my libretto, for the words danced before my eyes; and
Mrs. Van Dam, smiling at my interest, began chattering about the people
around us, speaking as if I would soon be as familiar with the brilliant
world of fashion and society as herself.

"I wonder," she said in her energetic way, "what it feels like to be at
one's first opera."

Excitement was flashing from my eyes and burning on my cheeks as I
answered:--

"It's--it's--oh, I can't tell you! But in the West," I added hastily, "we
had oratorio."

"What a buttercup you are!" she said again.

Soon the curtain rose upon the second act--or scene. Whichever it was,
that was all that I was fated to see or hear of the Opera. And for the
little while I could consider it, I must say I was disappointed. The
scenery was superb, but the voices--

"You've spoiled us, Nelly," Milly whispered.

"Colombo's not bad."

I squeezed her hand ecstatically.

I find that I don't criticise men so shrewdly; but oh, the thin, shrill
pipe of Isabella, compared with what a woman's voice may be! Yet I admired
her skill, and did not wonder that the house applauded.

The second scene was just closing, and I was lost in dreams of the fine
things that I shall do for art and music when I'm a great society leader,
when the box door opened, and there entered an elderly couple, much
alike--tall, thin, rather stately and withered. I knew that they must be
Mrs. Marmaduke Van Dam, the General's mother-in-law, and her husband.
Impulsively I sprang up to allow them to come to the front places.

And then--the catastrophe!

I was conscious at first only of an instant's confusion, of a hurried
introduction in undertones. Then I found myself again sitting, my arm
tingling to the clutch of Milly's fingers. In her pale, pretty face her
light eyes glowed with a fright that was not all painful.

The blood seemed to flow back to my heart as I realised what I had done.
The sudden stir in our box had called attention, and I had been standing
in the glare of electric lights overhead and at my feet, my white dress
outlined against the blood-red curtains.

"Take this fan," Milly whispered from behind me. "Will you have my seat?"

Shame dyed my face. After such a heedless act I couldn't look at the
General. I knew that, in his surprise at my appearance, Mr. Marmaduke Van
Dam had fumbled noisily with his chair, and that Mrs. Marmaduke had
dropped her shoulder wrap--she was in evening dress; how can elderly women
do it?--I knew that in spite of their rigid politeness they found it hard
to keep their eyes from me. I hoped the General had been too busy to
appreciate my folly, and I drew a quivering breath of relief that it had
had no more serious consequences.

Yet I was queerly dissatisfied. The Metropolitan Opera House is a big
building, and the part of the audience to which I could have been
conspicuous was small. Yet some people must have seen; had they taken no
notice?

For some space--minutes or seconds--it seemed so.

Then a confused murmur, a shifting, restless movement, began near us in
the orchestra. A good many people down there, as well as in the boxes at
each side, had noticed me earlier. Now they began whispering to their
neighbours. Heads were turned our way; people were asking, answering,
almost pointing. I could see the knowledge of me spread from seat to seat,
from row to row, as ripples spread from a stone thrown into still water.
Opera glasses were levelled. Comment grew, swelled to a stir of surprise.
The curtain had dropped for the interval between scenes; our box became
for the moment the centre of interest, and the lights were high. Even the
orchestra was resting.

Then it was given me to see how in a great audience Panic may leap without
cause from Opportunity.

The stir grew, spread. Fascinated, I gazed down at the disturbance. I knew
that a frightened smile still curved my lips. I felt my eyes glow,
luminous and dilated. My heart almost stopped beating, gripped by triumph
and horror. Afterwards I realised that I had not availed myself of the
screen Milly offered; I hadn't lifted the fan to shield my face; I had not
stirred to hide myself.

"Bob!" whispered the General. "Quick! Don't you see?"

Robert Van Dam sprang to his feet, offering, as I thought, to exchange
places with me. Once more I started up, and chairs were moved to give me
passage.

While again I stood under the glare of the lights, and while for the
second time the movement in the box drew attention thither, somebody below
half rose to look at me. Two or three--a dozen--followed. As I dropped
into my seat at the back of the box, and cast the scarf again about my
head, twenty, thirty people were struggling out of their chairs.

From my shelter I watched as, farther and farther away, the heads began to
turn. From places where I had not been visible I heard the murmur
swelling, the scuffle of people rising. I had disappeared from sight, the
first to rise had dropped back into their seats as if ashamed, but others
increased the uneasy tumult of low, tense sounds.

My brain worked quickly. I understood the shuddering thrill that passed
over the audience. It was as if all my life I had seen such vast
assemblies, and knew the laws that rule their souls. Even before it came I
guessed it was coming; a voice--it was a man's--crying out:--

"What is it? Is it--fire?"

And from away across the house came the answering call--not a question
this time, not hesitant, but quick and sharp:--"Fire!"

What should I do? Why was not John or Mr. Hynes there to tell me? Wild
thoughts darted through my mind. Should I stand once more? Show myself?
Should I cry: "It was I, only I! They were looking at me. There is no
fire!"

Crazy, crazy thought! For the thing was over as soon as it began.

Those who had started the confusion and who understood its cause, began
shouting:--

"Sit down! Sit down!"

From the topmost gallery a tremendous great voice came bellowing down:--

"What--_fool_--said--that?"

There was a little laugh, a hiss or two rebuked the disorder; then the
baton signalled the orchestra, and the music recommenced, smoothly and in
perfect time; the conductor had never turned his head. The curtain went
up; the incident was closed.

I drew a long, sighing breath of relief as one, then another, then all
together, as if by a single impulse, the people sat down in their places.
It had been but an instant. The painted stage, the glittering court
ladies, Isabella on her throne, the suppliant Colombo, were as if nothing
had happened.

"First-rate orchestra," muttered Robert Van Dam.

The General turned in her chair and looked at me. She did not speak, but I
could see that she was excited; it seems to me now that her eyes were very
bright, and that her strong, square-chinned face looked curiously
satisfied.

"Let's go," I gasped; "I want to go home."

Choking with sobs, though not unhappy, I felt as if I wished to run, to
fly; but, as I tottered out of the box, I could scarcely stand. Mr. Van
Dam helped me, the General and Milly following. In the corridor we were
joined by Peggy and the florid young man whom I had seen with her.

"Why--why, you're not going? You are not going?" Peggy cried. She breathed
quickly, and her teeth and eyes alike seemed to twinkle. "Can--can't Mr.
Bellmer or I--do something?"

"Nothing at all," said the General in brisk staccato, fastening my wraps
with an air of proprietorship; "nobody's in voice to-night, do you think?
Miss Winship doesn't care to stay."

Before we reached the lobby, John came from somewhere, hurrying towards
us. I was walking between Mr. Bellmer and Robert Van Dam, but with
scarcely a look at them he tucked my hand under his arm, just as he would
have done in the old days at the State University. At the door Mr. Van Dam
looked for a cab.

"I'll take her home," said John grimly.

"I'll go with you; I must see her safe with Mrs. Baker," the General
replied, understanding at once. "Mr. Bellmer, tell Mother, please, that
Bob and I have gone with Miss Winship. Or--Bob, you won't be needed; you
explain to Mother."

The two men hurried away upon their errand, though I fancied they went
reluctantly. Peggy had not come down.

All the way home John's brows were black, and he looked straight ahead of
him. As we passed under the glow of electric lamps, Milly smiled bravely
at me across the carriage, respect and awe mingling with her sympathy. The
General sat at my side erect; her eyes glittered, and she looked oddly
pleased--not like a woman who had been at the focus of a scene, and had
been dragged away from the Opera before it was over, but like a General
indeed, planning great campaigns.

As for me, I felt that I must laugh--cry. Did ever such a ridiculous
thing, such a wonderful, glorious thing, such a perfectly awful thing,
happen to any other girl that ever lived?

I was living the scene again--seeing the mass of heads, the sea of
upturned faces. Again I was gazing into the one face that had been
distinct, the eyes that had drawn mine in all that blur and confusion,
that had looked back at me, as if in answer to my voiceless call for help,
with strength and good cheer. Even in the moment of my utmost terror, I
had been sustained by that message from Ned Hynes. How did I chance to see
him just at that crisis, when I didn't know of his presence? And why
didn't he come to us afterwards, as John did?

Mrs. Baker and Ethel saw us leave the box, and were at home with Uncle
almost as soon as we.

"Are you safe, Nelly?" Aunt cried, rushing at me; then, with the sharpness
of tense nerves, she rebuked the Judge: "Ba-ake, you hissed her!"

"Nay, my dear; in the interests of music, I frowned upon disorder." He
added, with waving of his antennae eyebrows: "It was Helen's first opera."

We all laughed hysterically, and then Mrs. Van Dam and John went away.

Could--_could_ Mr. Hynes have gone to the Opera just because he had
heard that I would be there?



CHAPTER V.


A PLAGUE OF REPORTERS.

Saturday evening, Jan. 18.

Since Monday I have left the house but once. The Judge has given me a
microscope so that I may study at home instead of going to Barnard; and to
please him I make a pretence of cutting sections from the plants in Aunt's
conservatory; but oh, it's so dull, so dull! Or would be but for my happy
thoughts. It isn't interest in apical cell or primary meristem that makes
me fret to return to Prof. Darmstetter!

It's all on account of reporters that I am shut up like a state secret or
a crown jewel. From daylight until dark, men with pencils and notebooks,
cardboard-bearing artists and people with hand cameras have watched the
house; and it's so tiresome.

The siege had already begun when Mrs. Baker came to my room the morning
after the Opera, but I knew nothing about it. I couldn't understand why
she scolded with such vehemence upon finding me writing in this little
book instead of lying in bed; why she exclaimed so nervously over my
escape and the horrors of jumping from windows, or sliding down ropes, or
of being hurried along in fire panics until I was crushed to death.

"Why, you talk as if there had _been_ a fire," I cried, kissing her.

Millions of fires have flamed and roared and sunk and died again; but
never before has there been a Me!

The dear fussy little woman said that John had been telephoning inquiries.
I could see that she wished to keep me in my room, and finally, at some
laboured excuse for withholding the morning papers, I understood that she
and John were hiding something; she is so transparent!

"You must be calm, Nelly, dear; you mustn't excite yourself," she chirped
anxiously.

"Unless I see the papers, I shall have a fever, a high fever," I
threatened; "I must--oh, I must see every word about last evening!"

At last the _Record_ and the _Messenger_ came upstairs already
opened to the critiques of the new opera. Mrs. Baker wished to read aloud,
but I almost snatched the papers from her; my eyes couldn't go fast enough
down the columns. But in neither sheet did I find more than a reference to
a "senseless alarm" that marred the rendition of "Christofero."

My cheeks flamed with annoyance. It was the reporters who were senseless;
they had seen men adoring the wonder of this century, and had not flashed
news of it--of me--to all the world!

Aunt couldn't understand. She thought to comfort me by saying that my
share in the disturbance would never be suspected; she unblushingly
averred that no one had seen me; she begged me to rest, to forget my
fright, not to be distressed by the newspapers.

Distressed? Not I! Events had been too startling for me to heed the
stupidity that whined over missing a few bars of a silly overture when
_I_ was in sight. Indeed I had been frightened; yet why should not
the world demand to look upon me? I thought only of hurrying to Prof.
Darmstetter that he might share my triumph. But Aunt wouldn't hear of my
leaving the house; scarcely of my coming down stairs. Fluttering into my
room she would bring me some fruit, a novel; then she would trot away
again with an air of preoccupation.

I was getting out of patience at all this mystery, when, during one of her
brief absences, Ethel tapped at my door, and a minute later Kitty Reid
dashed at me, while in the doorway appeared Cadge, scratching with one
hand in a black bag.

"Oh, Helen, Helen," cried Kitty, laughing and half crying, "_have_
you seen Cadge's exclusive?"

"Cadge! You were there? Cadge!"

"Sure," said that strange creature, her keen eyes glancing about my room;
"you don't deserve half I've done for you--not letting me know
beforehand--."

"Or me!" Kitty broke in. "Oh, I've have given a--a tube of chrome yellow
to see you!"

"--but we've made the Row look like nineteen cents in a country where they
don't use money. See you've got the fossils." Cadge nodded towards the
papers I had been reading. "But the _Star's_ worth the whole--now
where the mischief--"

"Cadge! Show me!"

From the black bag she drew several sheets of paper, upon each of which
was pasted a cutting from a newspaper, with pencilled notes in the margin;
a handkerchief, a bunch of keys, six pointed pencils, a pen-knife, a
purse, rather lean, a photograph of two kittens.

"There," she said, relieved at sight of these, "knew I couldn't have lost
'em. Brooklyn woman left 'em $5,000 in her will. They'll stand me in a
good little old half column. Now--where--ah, here you are!"

She unfolded a _Star_ clipping and proudly spread it upon my knee.

"There, Princess! That's the real thing!"

I caught my breath at the staring headlines.

BEAUTY OF A WOMAN THREATENS A PANIC AT THE OPERA HOUSE.

PRESENCE OF MISS HELEN WINSHIP CREATES SENSATION THAT MIGHT HAVE RESULTED
IN A PERILOUS STAMPEDE.

_Alarm of Fire During the Third Scene of "Christofero Colombo"_

GREAT AUDIENCE AT THE METROPOLITAN ENDANGERED BY FRENZY OVER REMARKABLY
LOVELY GIRL.

"Hot stuff, ain't it?" said Cadge, beaming with satisfaction. "I never
like that Opera assignment--dresses and society, second fiddle to the
music man--but I wouldn't have missed last night! Minute I saw you in the
Van Dam box I knew there'd be the biggest circus I ever--why--why,
Helen--"

The horror of it--the pitiful vulgarity! My father, the University folks--
all the world would know that I had been made notorious by a--that I--oh,
the tingling joy, the rapture--that I was the loveliest of women!

"Cadge! Oh, Cadge!"

I threw myself into her arms.

"Why, Helen, what's this? Can't stand for the headlines? Built in the
office and I know they're rather--"

"They're _quite_" interrupted Kitty. "Of course the Princess wouldn't
expect a first page scare. But cheer up, child; there's worse to come."

The girls were soothing me and fussing over me when Aunt Frank opened the
door. At her surprised look I brushed away my tears of joy. I understood
everything now--her uneasiness, the long telephonic conferences, my
confinement to the house.

"Aunt," I managed to say, "here is Kitty come to condole with me and
congratulate me; and this is my friend, Miss Bryant of the _Star_.
You remember? She was here at the tea."

"A reporter!"

"Oh, I had to know! Don't worry. Cadge, dear, did nobody but you see me?"

"The fossils never have anything they can't clip," said Cadge in the tone
of absorption that her work always commands. "I'm surprised myself at the
_Echo_, though it did notice that a 'Miss Winslow' fainted in the Van
Dam box. But haven't you had reporters here--regiments? Expected to find
you ordering Gatlings for the siege."

"We're bombarded!" said Aunt. "With--er--"

"Rapid fire questions," suggested Ethel.

"--but the servants have their orders. Of course," Aunt added uneasily,
"we're glad to see any friend of Nelly's."

"Oh, by the way, I'm interviewing you," Cadge announced; _Star_ wants
to follow up its beat. You haven't talked?"

"Why, no; but--do I have to be interviewed?"

Just at first the idea was a shock, I must confess.

"Do you _have_ to be interviewed? Wish all interviewees were as meek.
Why, of course, Helen, you'll want to make a statement. I 'phoned the
_Star_ photographer to meet me here, but he's failed to connect.
However, Kitty can sketch--"

"Oh, Miss Bryant!" wailed Aunt. "An interview! How frightful! Can't you
let her off?"

"Why, I don't exactly see how--though I might--" Cadge deliberated,
studying Aunt's face rather than mine, "--might wait and see the red
extras. I know how she feels, Mrs. Baker--they're always that way, at
first--and I'm anxious to spare her, but--I can't let the _Star_ be
beaten. If I were you--"

She turned to me, hesitated a moment, then burst out impulsively:--

"If I were you, I wouldn't say a word! Not--one--blessed--word! I'd pique
curiosity. There! That _is_ treason! Why, I'd give my eye teeth,
'most, for a nice signed statement. But I'll wait--that is, if you really,
honest-Injun, prefer."

"You're very kind," said Aunt Frank, with a sigh of bewildered relief.
"We'd give anything, of course--_anything_!--to avoid--"

"Mind," Cadge admonished me as she rose to go. "I'm running big risks,
letting you off; the office relied on me. If you do talk to anybody else,
or even see anybody, you'll let me know, quick? And if you don't want to
give up, look out for a little fat girl with blue eyes and a baby stare;
she'll be here sure, crying for pictures; generally gets 'em, first time,
too. Snuffles and dabs her eyes and says: 'If I go back without any
photograph, I'll lose my j-o-o-o-b! Wa-a-a-h! Wa-a-a-h! until you do
anything to get rid of her. Ought to be on the stage; tears in her voice.
I wouldn't do stunts like that, if I never--you will look out, won't you?"

Aunt is so funny, not to have guessed who wrote the _Star_ article.
But she never saw it. Her precautions had all been taken at John's
officious suggestion over the telephone. Busybody! An interview is nothing
so terrible. The world has a right to know about me; and I don't suppose
Aunt had an idea how grievously Cadge was disappointed.

No sooner had Cadge left us than Mr. Bellmer, pink and stammering in my
presence, and after him the General, called to inquire for me.

It was wonderful to see the change in the strong, self-confident girl's
manner. She beamed at my appearance, and her every word was caressing and
deferential. The night before had had a magical effect. I was no longer
"Diane," the ingenue whom she patronized as well as admired. I was a
powerful woman, a great lady.

"Did our Princess enjoy waking this morning to find herself famous?" she
asked, echoing Milly's word for me; and then, to Mrs. Baker's horror, she,
too, had a tale to tell about reporters; they had been besetting her for
information about her companion of the Opera.

"But I never see people of that sort, you know," she said, with an accent
that piqued me, though I couldn't help feeling glad that Cadge had gone.

She showered me with messages from Mrs. Marmaduke Van Dam and from Peggy
and Mrs. Henry. She had a dozen plans for my entertainment, but Mrs. Baker
opposed a flurried negative:--

"We'll run no more risks like last night's; Nelly must stay at home--till
folks get used to her."

"Then I can never go anywhere; never!" I cried in despair, yet laughing.
It's impossible sometimes not to laugh at Aunt. But Mrs. Van Dam gave me a
look that promised many things.

"You won't be left in hiding after such a dbut; you'll electrify
society!" she said; and when she had gone, I wore away the day wondering
what she meant, until I could send for the afternoon papers.

I laughed until I cried when they came, and cried until I laughed. The red
extras reviewed the occurrence at the Opera from Alpha to Omega,
publishing "statements" from ushers who had shown us to our box; from
people in the audience and from the cab man who drove us home. And they
supplemented their accounts with pen and ink sketches of "Miss Helen
Winship at the Opera," evolved from the fallible inner consciousness of
"hurry-up artists."

When Uncle came home, he found me reading an interview with him which
contained the momentous information that he would say nothing.

"We shall not again forget," he said with a deep sigh of relief, "that

--the face that launched a thousand ships
And burned the topless towers of Ilion

--was Helen's. But the Metropolitan still stands. An argument not used on
heart-hardened Pharaoh was a plague of press representatives."

I'm afraid he'd had a trying day.

The worst of my day was still to come.

After dinner, when I happened to be alone a minute in the library, Mr.
Hynes came in. Oddly enough I'd been thinking about him. I had determined
that the next time he called I would for once be self-possessed; I would
act as if I had not seen how oddly he conducts himself--now gazing at me
as if he would travel round the earth to feast his eyes upon my beauty and
now actually shunning Milly's cousin. I was quite resolved to begin afresh
and treat him just as cordially as I would any other man:

But the moment he appeared away flew all my wits.

"I think Milly'll be here in a minute," I stammered, and then I stopped,
tongue-tied and blushing.

He came towards me, saying abruptly: "May I tell you what I thought when I
saw you above us--" I didn't need to ask when or where. "--I thought: The
Queen has come to her coronation."

One's own stupid self is so perverse! Of course I meant to thank him for
his silent help the night before, but I asked with a rush of nervous
confusion:--

"You--were you there?"

I could have suffered torture sooner than own that I had seen him.

"Were you there, Ned?" repeated Milly, blundering into the room. "Why, we
didn't see you."

Of all vexatious interruptions! Behind her came John and most of the
family.

"The servant of The Presence would fain know if The Presence is well,"
John said, coming quickly to my side and peering down at me with a dark,
worn look upon his face, as if he hadn't slept, and a catch in his voice
that irritated me, in spite of his playful words. I knew well enough that
his anxiety had been on my account, but it was so unnecessary!

"The child bears up wonderfully," cried my Aunt, before I could answer;
"but to-morrow'll tell the story; to-morrow she'll feel the strain."

Then they all broke out talking at once. John drew a big chair for me to
the fire, and there was such an ado, adjusting lights and fending me with
screens.

"You _are_ well?" John asked, obstinately planting himself between me
and the others.

"Perfectly. How absurd you are!"

It was so ridiculous that I should be coddled after the triumph of my
life, as if something awful had happened to me.

I had felt annoyed all day, so far as anything can now annoy me, by John's
too solicitous guardianship, and it vexed me anew when he began to pile up
cautions against this and against that--to warn me against going out alone
upon the street, and to urge care even in my intercourse with Cadge. He is
quicker than my Aunt; he divined the source of the _Star_ article,
and he almost forbade me to cleave to such an indiscreet friend.

"Oh, last night won't happen ag