etropolitane of
  Hamburg in the yeere of Christ 1070. saw the Islanders concerted
  Christianitie: albeit, before the receiuing of Christian faith, they
  liued according to the lawe of nature, and did not much differ from our
  lawe: therefore at their humble request, he appointed a certaine holy man
  named Islief to be their first Bishop.

Krantzios in these words, and Munster other where, doe seeme to attribute
vnto the Islanders the prerogatiue of Christian faith and they should deale
both beseeming themselues and the trueth, if they did not in other places
depriue vs of the same. For (to speake of Krantzras anone) that which
Munster before reported concerning our faith or opinion about the place and
situation of hell, is very farre from Christian pietie: namely to be
desirous to prie into those secrets which God hath kept close vnto himselfe
alone, and which his pleasure is, should exceed our capacitie: for there is
not any thing found in the holy Scriptures of this matter, where the place
and situation of hell, or of eternall fire prepared for the deuill and his
angels, and so for all damned soules, is bounded or compassed about. The
holy Bible (I say) assigneth no locall or bodily situation beneath the
earth, or vpon the earth, or in any other place of this world, to that
prison of the damned: but it affirmeth that this earth shall perish, and
that a new earth, and new heauens shall be created for the habitation of
iust and holy men, Reuel. 2. 2. Pet. 3. and Esay [Footnote: Isaiah] 65.
wherefore a Christian man willingly giueth ouer to search into such hidden
secrets and he accounteth it vnlawful to receiue or deliuer vnto others,
opinions (grounded vpon no plaine and manifest places of Scripture) for
certainties and trueths, Deut. 4. and 12. Esay 8. Matth. 27. 2. Tim 3.

Further also that commendation wherewith Munster and Krantzius doe grace
the Islanders, is meerly contrary to Christian religion: namely that they
make al one reckoning of their whelps and of their children. But more of
this matter anone in the 7. section. So therefore Munster disagreeth with
himselfe, whereas those whom he affirmeth to be Christians, afterward, he
maketh to be master builders of hell. Also Krantzius and Munster both
together, when as those whom they affirme to be engraffed by faith into
Christ, they except from all sense of piety and honesty, in that they write
that their sonnes are not dearer vnto them then their whelpes.

But to returne to the matter: In very deed we haue no great thing to say
concerning our religion, what, or of what sort it was when Gentilisme was
first put to flight. No more (I thinke) haue other Northern nations neere
vnto vs to say concerning the beginning of their faith. For (alas) we must
needs confesse and bewaile with deepe sighes, that vntill that day which
shined vnto vs like the beginning of immortalitie, and brought vnto vs the
pure doctrine of the gospel, our countrymen, as likewise other churches of
the North, were ouerspred with more then Cimmerian darkenesse. But we may
iustly and religiously thinke thus muche, that among vs and our neighbours
of Norway (for I will not range out of my bounds, nor affirme any thing of
vnknowen people) after heathenish idolatry was rooted out, Christian faith
and religion did florish far more sincere, and simple, as being lesse
infected with the poison of poperie, at that time, then afterward, when as
the pestiferous leauen of the see of Rome being augmented, and the
contagious mischiefe growing ripe, the poison thereof was dispersed through
the whole world: for, as it shal afterward appeare, Island embraced Christ
many yeeres before the new idolatry of the papists began to preuaile, and
did sound foorth nothing but faith in God the Father, the Sonne and the
holy Ghost, like vnto those two most renouned kings of Norway, who as they
had one common name, so had they one common care and profession to aduance
the gospel of Christ. [Sidenote: The first christian king of Norway] I
meane Olaus the sonne of Thryggo, who was borne in the yere of Christ 968.
attaining to the kingdom of Norway in the 27. yeere of his age, and was the
first, as we haue heard, that offred Chnst vnto the Norwegians, ouer whom
hee reigned fiue yeeres and another of that name called Olaus Sanctus the
sonne of Harald, who in the yeere of Christ 1013. or there about, gouerned
with more seueritie, and for the space of 17. yeeres did boldly deliuer the
doctrine of Christ. In the yere of Chnst 1030. being vniustlie slaine by
wicked murtherers, he shed his blood for the name of Christ in a town of
Norway called Sticfla Stodum.

[Sidenote: Nialus the first knowne professour of Christian faith in
Island.] Our countrey also had, among many other, one man of excellent
pietie whose name was Nialus, who about the yeere of Chnst 1000. liued in
the village of Berthorshuol situate in the parish of Island called
Landehum: who also for his experience in humane affaires, for his great
wisedome and sage counsell was accompted famous. For whereas in his time
Island was turmoiled with many fierce mutinies, the inhabitants being in
subiection to no superiour magistrate, he intermedled not in any quarels,
sauing that by his discreet vertue and diligence he set through and brought
to composition a great number: hee neuer did nor suffered violence, but
onely vpon the last day of his life. So carefully auoyded he al seditions
and strifes: and gaue good assistance to others, who were desirous also to
auoyd and escape them: neither did any man euer put in practise his
counsel, but it turned to his especiall good: nor euer any did swerue
therefrom, but with the danger of his life and possessions. The wordes or
rather the oracles that came from him were so certaine, that it was
wonderful from whence any man should haue so great and so sure forecast and
counsell of things to come, as was found to be in him. Whereupon his
discreet and prouident wisedome, ioyned with counsell became a prouerbe
amongst vs, "Nials byta raden:" That is to say, the counsel of Nialus or,
the thing is done, or succeedeth by Nialus his counsel: when any business
was atchieued prudently, and with admirable discretion. This man, when, for
a slaughter committed by his sonne without his knowledge, he was in his
owne house beset with a 100. men, who had conspired his death, and when his
enemies began on all sides to set his house on fire, seeing his ende
approch, at length he brake into these words. "Doubtlesse these things
happen by fate, that is, by the will of God. Howbeit, I put my hope and
confidence in Christ, that we (meaning his wife and himselfe) although this
our fraile body shal vndergoe the corruption of death, in the fire of our
enemies, yet, that it shalbe deliuered from eternal flames." And so in the
midst of these voyces, and in the fury of the flames, he with his wife and
the manslayer his sonne, in the yere of Christ 1010. ended his life. A
voyce vndoubtedly full well beseeming the sonnes of God, arguing the
notable comfort of his soule amidst the very pangs of death.

I therefore added those things to shew by what reason I was moued to thinke
that in the very beginning of Christianitie receiued amongst vs, mens minds
were not so beguiled and ouerwhelmed in the darkenes of errors, as of late,
a little before these our times they haue bene.

[Sidenote: A summe of the Islanders Religion.] But after the Lord God by
Luther, and Luthers fellow-labourers in the vineyard of the Lord, and by
godly successours, did make the doctrine of saluation more manifest, and
shaking off the heauie slothe, and thicke miste of our minds by the finger
of his right hand, that is by his holy spirit (Matth. 12. v. 28.) did
plucke the eares of our hearts, and opened our eyes that we might behold
his sauing health: We all, and euery of vs do belieue and confesse that God
is a spirit (Iohn 4. v. 24.) eternal (Esay. 40. v. 28.) infinite (Iere. 23.
v. 24. Psal 139. v. 7. 8. 9.) most good (Matth. 19. v. 17.) almighty (Gen.
17. 1. Reuel. 1. 8.) one in being, and nature: one in prouidence, one in
the making and gouerning of all things (Deut. 6. 5. Ephe. 4. 5.) But
distinguished by the persons of the Godhead and their properties, the
Father, the Sonne, and the holy Ghost (Matth. 28. 19. and 3. 17.) God the
Father the first person of the Godhead creator of heauen and earth, and all
other things (Gen. 1. v. 1. and in those that folow) the vpholder and
gouernor of all (Psa. 115. 3. Heb. 1. 3.) Father of our Lord Iesus Christ
(Psal. 2, 7. and verses following) and our Father through him (Rom. 8. 15.)
keeper of our soules and bodies (Luke 12. 12.). And that Iesus Christ the
second person of the Godhead is the sonne of God the Father (Iohn 1. 18.
&c.) onely begotten (Iohn 1. 29. Heb. 1. 2.) equal to his Father (1. Chro.
17. 13. Ioh. 1. 1.) true God (Iohn 1. 2. &c.) foreappointed before the
creation of all things (1. Pet. 1. 20, Reuel 13. 8. &c.) and presently
after mans fell promised to be the Messias (Gene. 3. 15. &c.) published
eftsoones vnto the holy Patriaches, as vnto Abraham (Gen. 12. 3. &c.) vnto
Isaac (Gen. 26. 4.) vnto Iacob (Gene. 28. 14.) and confirmed by promises
(Gen. 49. 9. Esa. 11. 1, 10.) prefigured by the sacrifices of Moses (Leu.
1. 2. &c.) and by other types, as namely by the offering of Isaac (Gen.
22.) by the lifting vp of the brazen serpent (Num. 21.) by Ionas (Ionas 2.
&c.) proclaimed by the testimony of the Prophets (Esa. 7. 14.) and at
length in the fulnesse of time truely exhibited: true man (Iohn 1. 14. &c.
Gal. 4.) that he died for our sinnes, and was raised again for our
iustification (Rom. 4. 25. &c.) Ascending into heauen (Acts 1. 9. &c.) and
making intercession for vs at the right hand of his Father without ceasing
(1. Iohn 2. 1. &c.) by his holy Spirit (which is the thirde person of the
Godhead, coequall, and consubstantial to the Father and the Sonne, Acts. 5.
4.) gathering the Church to himselfe by the word, and Sacraments (Matth.
16. 18. Rom. 10. 14. &c.) and sanctifying it to eternal life, (Acts. 9. 31.
&c.) And that one day at the end of the world he will come from heauen
(Acts 1. 11.) to iudge the quicke and the dead (1. Thessal. 4. 15.) that he
will render vnto the wicked according to their workes, and that he will
iudge mem to eternal paines (Matth. 13. 42. and 25. 4.) but that he wil
reward them, with eternal life, who beleeue in his Name (Matth. 25. 34.)
This Iesus Christ (I say) wee acknowledge to be our Redeemer (Matth. 1.
21.) our head (1. Corinth. 12. 27.) and our Lord (Ephe. 4. 5.) And that wee
in our holy baptisme do giue, and haue giuen our names vnto him (Acts. 2.
38.) and that wee are engraffed into him by baptisme (1. Corin. 12. 13.)
And this we do plainely, ingenuously, freely, and willingly confesse and
witnesse: And as for all others who inuent any other name in heauen giuen
vnto men by which they may be saued, we doe earnestly detest, cursse, and
condemne them (Acts. 4. 12.) We holde his most holy Word to be the onely
rule of our saluation: and that alone (al mans deuises being cast away and
contemned) we propound vnto our selues as an infallible rule, and leuel of
our faith (Galat. 1. 8. Esai 29. 13. Ezech. 20.) which we conteine vnder
the name of the olde and newe Testament (Hebr. 8.) deliuered by the
Prophets and Apostles (Ephe 2. 20) by the singular and infinite goodnesse
of God, presented euer vnto this day and to be preserued here after alwayes
in the Church (Matth 28. last verse. Psal 71. 18. 1 Cor 11. 26.)

Therefore we render thankes vnto our most gratious and Almighty God from
our soule, and from our whole heart, because that euen vnto vs being
separated an huge distance from the rest of the body of his Church, and
inhabiting the farthest parts of the world, hee would that this light
graunted for the reuelation of the Gentiles, and prepared before the face
of all people, and in olde time fauourably shewed to holy Simeon (for in
Christ are all the treasures of wisedome hidden) which now doeth enlighten
and cherish with the sauing beames thereof our whole nation, that hee would
(I say) this light should come vnto vs. This in briefe (running ouer the
very summe) is our faith, and our Religion, which by the direction of the
holy Spirt and of his Ministers in the vineyard of Christ, we haue drawen
and that out of the fountaines of Isræl.

[Sidenote: Kranzius] In the yeere of our Lord 1070. saw the Ilanders
  conuerted vnto Christ, &c.

It is doubtful vnto vs whether in these words Kranzius would haue said,
that the Islanders were first conuerted vnto Christ in the yeere of our
Lord 1070. or whether he doth not deny that they were indeed before
conuerted, but saith that it was knowne first vnto Adalbert that yeere.
[Sidenote: The most ancient Chronicles of Island.] But whethersoeuer of
these he affirmeth: notwithstanding the yeerely records, and most auncient
Chronicles of our nation testifying the contrary do make his credite to be
suspected in this place, vnto which records and Chronicles, whether you had
rather giue assent concerning our owne proper and domesbcal affaires, done
within the bounds of our Island, or to Krantzaus or any other being
ignorant in the story of our countrey, I appeale (friendly reader) vnto
your owne discretion. For my part I am enforced by many reasons to agree
rather vnto our owne writers. For our countreymen affirme those things
onely that be knowen, and in a maner domesticall he writeth matters
forreine and vnknowen they haue compiled their histories without the
diffaming, disgracing or reprehending of any other nations, onely that they
might assigne vnto their owne acts and exploits the true time or age
thereof: he hath intermedled in his historie certaine things contrary to
the trueth, and that to the vpbraiding of our nation being most vnknowen
vnto him, as it shall immediatly appeare: they describe the names, yeres,
order, succession of all the Bishops of Island: he mentioneth onely one,
and that farre otherwise then the trueth. Furthermore that I may make good
the credite of our Countreymen, I wil impart with strangers a fewe things
which I found in our most ancient records of the conuersion of Island vnto
Christ, and of the succession of Bishops in our Churches. Which although
they be of litle moment, and not altogether worthy to be written, yet must
they of necessitie bee set downe for the defence of the trueth of our
affaires against Krantzius and others: thus therefore standeth the
certaintie thereof.

[Sidenote: Island first inhabited.] In the yeere of Christ 874. Island
(being indeed discouered before that time, as is aboue mentioned) was then
first of all inhabited by certaine Noruagians. Their chiefetaine was one
Ingulphus from whose name the East cape of Island is called Ingulffs
hoffdi. These planters are reckoned vp by name in our recordes more then to
the number of 400 together with those of their blood and kinred, and great
families besides neither onely is their number described, but it is also
plainely set downe, what coasts, what shores, and what inland places eche
of them did occupie and inhabite, and what names the first inhabitants did
giue vnto Streights, bayes, harboroughs, necklands, creekes, capes, rockes,
cragges, mountaines, hilles, valleys, homockes, springs, floods, riuers.
And to be short, what names they gaue vnto their graunges or houses,
whereof many at this day are reteined and vsed. Therefore the Norwayes with
their company peopled all the habitable parts of Island now occupied by
them for the space of 60. yeeres or thereabout but they remayned Ethnickes
almost 100. yeres, except a very fewe which were baptised in Norwaie. But
scarce a 100. yeres from their first entrance being past, presently
Christian religion began to be considered vpon, namely about the yeere of
our Lord 974. Which thing aboue 20. yeres together, was diuersly attempted
of many not without notable rebellion: amongst the rest there are mentioned
two outlandish Bishops, who with others diligently laboured in conuerting
the Island to Christian faith: [Sidenote: Saxo, the first preacher of the
Christian faith in Island. Anno Domini 981.] the former was one Fridericus
a Saxon borne, who in the yeere 981. came into Island, and behaued himselfe
couragiously in the office of preaching, and preuailed so much, that in the
yeere 984. Churches were vsed in Island.

But the other outlandish Bishop or preacher whom they called Thangbrandt
came first into Island in the yeere 997.

[Sidenote: Anno Domini 1000.] And then after 26. yeeres consulting about
Religion, at length in the yeere 1000, it was decreed in a generall
assembly of all the inhabitants by their whole consent, that the worship of
heathenish Idoles being abandoned, they should embrace Christian Religion.

Againe, in the yeere 1050, it was decreed in a solemne assembly of the
inhabitants, that temporall or politique lawes (the constitutions whereof
being brought out of Norwaie were communicated vnto the Islanders by one
Vlfliot in the yeere 926.) should euery where giue place to the Canon or
diuine Lawe.

In the yere 1056. one Isleif went beyond the seas out of Island to be
consecrated bishop of Island.

He came home consecrated into Island, and entred into the bishopricke of
Scalholt in the yeere 1057. He died 1080. in the yeere of his age 74. The
4. of the Kalends of Iuly.

These things perhaps wil seeme trifling, short and base, not sufficiently
worthy to be mentioned, together with many other matters which follow: but
neither doe wee compile the Romane history, neither yet shall these things
be so trifling, but that they may be of sufficient force to conuince the
errours of Krantzius and others, according to our purpose. [Sidenote: A
notable testimonie of Saxo concerning the Islanders.] And vndoubtedly as
touching the trueth of our histories, it is euident that Saxo Grammaticus
attributeth very much vnto them: whose words in his preface of Denmarke be
these: Neither is the diligence of the Thylenses (for so he calleth
Islanders) to be smothered in silence: who when as by reason of the natiue
barrennes of their soile, wanting nourishments of riot, they do exercise
the duties of continuall sobrietie, and vse to bestow all the time of their
life in the knowledge of other men's exploits they supply their want by
their wit. For they esteeme it a pleasure to know and commit vnto memory
the famous acts of other nations, reckoning it no lesse praiseworthy to
discourse of other mens vertues, then to practise their owne. Whose
treasures replenished with the monuments of historical matters, I more
curiously searching into, haue compiled no smal part of this present worke
by following of their relation neither despised I to haue those men for my
iudges, whom I knew to be skilful in so great knowledge of antiquitie. Thus
farre Saxo.

Wherefore I thinke it not amisse to proceede in the recitall of the Bishops
of Island, that the order and descent of them all, being so farre foorth as
is possible, diligently put together out of our yeerely records, may make
good that which we haue alledged against Krantzius concerning Isleif the
first Bishop of Island.


CATALOGUS CHRONOLOGICUS EPISCOPORUM ISLANDIÆ.

Anno               Episcopi Schalholtenses
Christi
                             I.
                           Isleif.
1056    Ordinatur peregrè.
1057    Redit et Schalholtensem cathedram adit
1080    Anno ætat 74. Moritur 4. Kalend. Iul.

                             II.
                           Gysserus.
1082    Ordinatur peregrè,
1083    Redit in Islandiam cum Episopatu.
1118    Moritur 5. Kalend. Maias qui fuit dies Martis.

                             III.
                     Thorlacus Runolphi. F.
Anno
ætatis  Ordinatur eodem anno, quo prædecessor.
32:     Gysserus vita excessit, sed tamen ante illius obitum 30. die
1133    Moritur.

                             IV.
                           Magnus
1134    Ordinatur.
1148    Postridiè festi omnium Sanctorum in villa sacerdotali Hittardal
        comuiuans, coenaculo fulmine percusso, cum viris 70. flammis
        absumptus est.

                             V.
                          Klaingus.
1151    Eligitur.
1152    Cathedram adit.
1176    Moritur.

                             VI.
                          Thorlacus.
        Eligitur biennio ante obit, prædecessoris
1178    Ordinatur.
1193    Moritur.

                             VII.
                           Paulus.
1195    Ordinatur.
1211    Moritur.

                             VIII.
                            Magnus.
1216    Ordinatur.

                             IX.
                          Siguardus.
1239    Cathedram adit.
1268    Moritur.

                             X.
                          Arnerus.
1269    Cathedram adit.
1298    Moritur.

                             XI.
                     Arnerus Helgonis F.
1304    Ordinatur.
1305    Cathedram adit.
1309    In Noruagiam abit ligna à rege Noruagiæ petiturus, quibus
          templum Schalholtense reædificaretur, quod eodem anno
          fulmine tactum conflagrarat.
1310    Redit ex intinere.
1320    Moritur.

                             XII.
                        Ionas Haldorus.
1321    Eligitur.
1322    Ordinatur Kal. Augusti.
1323    Cathedram adit.
1338    Moritur.

                             XIII.
                   Ionas Indridi F. Roruages
1339    Cathedram adit.
1341    Moritur.

                             XIV.
                      Ionas Siguardi F.
1343    Cathedram adit.
1348    Moritur pridiè Diui Magni.

                             XV.
                           Gyrthus.
1349    Ordinatus Asloiæ Noruagorum, ab Episcopo Asloensi Salomone.
1356    Abiens peregrè fluctibus vitam finit.

                             XVI.
                         Thorarinnus.
1362    Cathedram adit.
1364    Moritur.

                             XVII.
                          Oddgeirus.
1366    Cathedram adit.

1381    Moritur in assumpt. beatæ virginis, in portu Noruagiæ Burgensi, è
          mercium aceruo in imum nauis delapsus. Sepultus Bergis in æde
          Saluatoris.

                             XVIII.
                         Michaël Danus.
1385    Cathedral adit.
1388    Resignat profectus in Daniam.

                             XIX.
                       Wilhelmus Danus.
1394    Cathedram adit. Moritur.

                             XX.
                          Arnerus.
        Hic cognomento fuit Milldur. i. liberalis. Gessit vna pæfecturam
          Islandiæ tertius: Episcopatum Schalholtens. & vice Episcopatum
          Holensem.
1420    Obijt.

                             XXI.
                       Ionas Gerichso.

1432    Suecus siue cognomento siue natione præest Ecclesiæ Schalholtensi:
          ac posteà ob quædam nimis audacter tentata, à quodam Thorualdo
          de Modruvallum (vt fama est) captus, & aligato ad collum saxo in
          amne Schalholtensi, qui à ponte nomen habet, viuus submersus &
          strangulatus est.

                            XXII.
                          Gosuinus.
1445    Præest Ecclesiæ Schalholtensi.

                           XXIII.
                           Sueno.
1472    Dictus sapiens præest.

                           XXIV.
                     Magnus Riolphi F.
1489    Præest.

                           XXV.
                       Stephanus.
1494    Cathedram adit.
        Deinde Godtschalco episcopo Holensi, qui crudelis nomen meritus
          esse videtur, Synchronos similem cum illo clementiæ & iusticiæ
          laudem reportauit.
1519    Moritur: aut circiter.

                          XXVI.
                        Augmundus.
        Eligitur anno obitus Stephani
1522    Cathedram adit.
        Hoc episcopo, prefectus regius cum comitibus aliquot Scalhotiam
          inuitatus, in ipso conuiuio à coniuram quibusdam interfectus est,
          eò quòd impiè passim in incolas & bona ipsorum grassatus esset.
          Augmundus vcro tanquam istius cædis author, quanquam se iuramento
          purgarat in Daniam transuectus, Obijt.

                          XXVII.
                         Gysserus.
1540    Eligitur viuente Augmundo
1541    Cathedram adit, Papisticarum traditionum abrogator circa coniugium
1544      sacerdotum: Eius nuptiæ Schalholtiæ celebratæ.

                          XXVIII.
                         Martinus.
1547    Præest, & sequentibus.

                          XXIX.
                      Gislaus Ionas.

        Hic statim, Augmundo episcopo, coepit iuuenis veræ pietatis &
          purioris doctrinæ Euangelicæ studio, & amore flagrare, eandemque
          pastor ecclesiæ Sclardalemsis diligenter propagare, qua ratione
          Pontificiorum odium adeò in se deriuauit, vt illorum insidijs ac
          rabiei cedere coactus, Hamburgum se contulerit, vnde Haffniam
          Danorum profectus, in coepto veræ Theologiæ studio strenuè
          pergens, in multorum, præcipuè verò in summa D. D. Petri Palladu
          tum temporis Episcopi, familiaritate et gratia viuebat.
1556      Postea, inde in patriam reuerso, Martinus sponte cessit.

1587      Moritur et hic 31. annos plus minus Euangelium Iesu Christi
            professus: nec tantum viua voce, sed et quocunque demum potuit
            modo, docendo, dicendo, scribendo, re et consilio Ecclesiam Dei
            iuuit et promouit.

                            XXX.
                         Otto Knerus
          Vir grauis, pius et eruditus.
1588      Electus abit patria.
1589      Ordinatur.
          Redit et cathedram adit, susceptique muneris labores aggreditur.

       *       *       *       *       *

Anno                Episcopi Holenses.
Christi

                             I.
                       Ionas Augmundi F.
        Isleifi discipulus.
1106    Ordinatur peregrè: anno ætat. 64. cognomentum illi, sanctus: curus
          memoriæ dies 3. Martij, apud Islandos est antiquitùs dicatus.
1121    Moritur 11. Kalend. Maias.

                             II.
                    Ketillus siue Catullus.
1122    Ordinatur.
1145    Moritur.

                             III.
                            Biorno.
1147    Ordinatus venit in Islandiam.
1162    Moritur.

                             IV.
                           Brandus.
1163    Ordinatur.
1165    Cathedram adit.
1201    Moritur.

                             V.
                  Gudmundus, cognomento Bonus.
1203    Eligitur et ordinatur.
1237    Moritur.

                             VI.
                          Botolphus.
1239    Redit ordinatus.
1246    Moritur.

                             VII.
                           Henricus.
1247    Cathedram adit.
1260    Moritur.

                             VIII.
                           Brandus.
1262    Abbas peregrè abit.
1263    Cathedram adit.
1264    Moritur.

                             IX.
                          Iorundus.
1267    Cathedram adit.
1313    Moritur.

                             X.
                          Audunnus.
1314    Cathedram adit.
1322    Moritur.

                             XI.
                         Laurentius.
1324    Eligitur & ordinatur.
1331    Moritur Idib. April.

                             XII.
                           Egillus.
1332    Cathedram adit.
1341    Moritur.

                             XIII.
                             Ormus.
1343    Cathedram adit.
1355    Moritur in festo omnium Sanctorum.

                             XIV.
               Ionas Erici F. _cognomento_ Skalle

1358    Cathedram Holensem aditurus venit in Islandiam. Hic Ionas, olim in
Grondlandiæ  Episcopatum Gronlandis ordinatus, à Pontifice Romano
Episcopus  impetrauit, vt liceret sibi Episcopatum Holensem adire, qui
1356       tunc temporis vacabat. Vnde cum confirmationem huius dignitatis
           ac munerus, à Pontifice acceptam, veniens non proferret, apud
           Presbyteros dioecesis Holensis, suspectæ fidet esse coepit.
           Quare abijsdem in Noruagiam relegæus est, vt ea res arbitrio
           Regis componeretur. Rege igitur ipsius partibus fauente
           Cathedram Holensem obitnuit.
1391    Moritur.

                              XV.
                            Petrus.
        Ordinatur, quo anno prædecessor rebus mortalium exemptus est.
1392    Cathedram adit Holensem.
        Moritur.

                              XVI.
                        Ionas Wilhelmus.
1432    Anglus, siue genere, siue cognomine, præfuit Ecclcsiæ Holensi.

                              XVII.
                           Godschalcus.
1457    Moritur.

                              XVIII.
                          Olaus Rogwaldi F.

1458    Prædicti Godschalchi ex sorore nepos, vterque Noruagus, eligitur.
1497    Moritur.

                              XIX.
                          Godschalcus.
        De mortus Olai nepos ex fratre, et ille Noruagus, eligitur eodem
          anno quo patruus decessit.

1500    Cathedram adit, ac per totos 20. annos multos ex subditis duriter
          exercuisse fertur.
        Anno 1520. cum inter pocula et voluptates conuiuales versaretur
          audirétque obijsse Ionam Sigismundum, quem cum vxore et liberis
          multos annos crudelissimè vexauerat, in subitum morbum repentè
          incidit, et sic paulò post, eam, qua in tota vita in miseros
          subditos vsus est vim cum miserabili morte commutauit.

                               XX.
                       Ionas Aræsonius.
1525     Cathedram adit: etiam hic papisticarum superstitionum vltimus et
           acerrimus assertor. Qui, cum Gyssero et Martino episcopus
           Schalhotiæ acriter resisteret, à pientiss. Rege Christiano
1548       tertio iubetur sub poena exilij protinus in Daniam aduentare.
1550       Sed hoc neglecto, captum Martinum Schalholtiæ Episcopum custodiæ
           mandauit.  Tandem et ipse à viro quodam magni nominis, quem
           prius vt fertur, lacessiuerat, captus, ac Schalholtiam adductus,
           ibidem cum filijs duobus, authoritate regij præfecti, capitis
1551       supplicio affectus est. In cuius vltionem, non multò post
           præfectus ille regius, cum socijs aliquot, à quibusdam sicarijs,
           decollatorum olim famulis, nefarie occisus est.

                               XXI.
                         Olaus Bialterus.
1552     Abit patria.
1553     Cathderam adit.
         Hic primus sincerioris doctrinæ apud Holenses amorem in multorum
           animis, etiam adhuc prædecessoris sui collega, accendit: Deinde
           eandem doctrinam Episcopus apertius docuit et propugnauit.
1568     Moritur.

                               XXII.
                       Gudbrandus Thorlacius.
         Ille non modò suæ ætatis, sed et posterntatis ornamentum. Qui
           præterquam quod inchoatum opus à prædecessore Olao sibi relictum
           ducente S. S. optimè ad eam, quam dedit Deus perfectionem,
           deduxit, (dico labores et diligentiam in asserenda veritate
           Euangelica, et papisticis superstitionibus abrogandis) etiam in
           hac patria sua officinam Typographicam primus Islandorum
           aperuit. Cui idcirco patria inter libros complures in linguam
           vernaculam translatos, etiam sacrosancta Biblia, elegantissimis
           typis Islandica lingua in officna ipsius excusa, in æternum
           debebit.
         Hic inquam Episcopus præsens, officium suscepturus.
1570     Abijt.
1571     Redit Cathedram Holensem ingreditur.


The same in English.

CHRONOLOGICAL TABLE OF THE BlSHOPS OF ISLAND.

The Bishops of Schalholt.                                     In the yeere
                                                                of Christ
                      I.
                   Isleif.
Consecrated beyond the seas.                                       1056
Returneth and entereth the Bishops sea of Schalholt.               1057
Dieth in the yere of his age 74. the 4. of the                     1080
   Kalends of Iuly.

                      II.
                   Gysserus.
Consecrated beyond the sea.                                        1082
Returneth into Island with his Bishopricke.                        1083
Dieth the 5. of the Kal. of May being tuesday.                     1118

                     III.
          Thorlacus sonne of Runulphus.
Consecrated the same yeere, wherein his predecessor.         In the year
   Gysserus deceased, but yet 30. dayes before               of his age 32
   his death. Dieth.                                               1133

                      IV.
                    Magnus.
Consecrated.                                                       1134
On the morrowe after the feast of all Saints, in his               1148
  parish towne of Hiitardal, the house being striken
  with lightning, hee, and 70. men with him were
  consumed with fire.

                      V.
                   Klaingus.
Chosen.                                                            1151
Entreth the see.                                                   1152
Dieth.                                                             1176

                      VI.
                   Thorlacus.
Chosen two yeres before the death of his predecessour.
Consecrated.                                                       1178
Dieth.                                                             1193

                      VII.
                     Paulus.
Consecrated.                                                       1195
Dieth.                                                             1211

                      VIII.
                     Magnus.
Consecrated.                                                       1216

                      IX.
                   Siguardus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1239
Dieth.                                                             1268

                      X.
                   Arnerus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1269
Dieth.                                                             1298

                      XI.
              Arnerus sonne of Helgo.
Consecrated.                                                       1304
Entreth the see.                                                   1305
Saileth into Norwaie, to craue timber of the king of Norway,       1309
  wherewith the Church of Schalholt might be reedified, which the
  same yere being toucht with lightning, was burnt downe.

Returneth home.                                                    1310
Dieth.                                                             1320

                      XII.
                 Ionas Haldorus
Elected.                                                           1321
Consecrated the first of August.                                   1322
Entreth his see.                                                   1323
Dieth.                                                             1338

                      XIII.
      Ionas, sonne of Indred, a Noruagian borne.
Entreth his see.                                                   1339
Dieth.                                                             1341

                      XIV.
            Ionas sonne of Siguardus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1343
Dieth on S. Magnus euen.                                           1348

                      XV.
                    Gyrthus.
Consecrated at Aslo in Norway by Salomon bishop of Aslo.           1349
Going beyond the seas he was drowned.                              1356

                      XVI.
                  Thorarinnus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1362
Dieth.                                                             1364

                      XVII.
                    Oddgeirus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1366
Dieth vpon the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin, in the port of    1381
  Bergen in Norway, falling downe from a packe of wares into the
  botome of the ship. He was buried at Bergen in the Church of our
  Sauiour.

                      XVIII.
                 Michael a Dane.
Entreth his see.                                                   1385
Resigneth, and saileth into Denmarke.                              1388

                      XIX.
                 William a Dane.
Entereth the Bishopricke.                                          1394
Dieth.

                      XX.
                   Arnerus.
Arnerus sirnamed Mildur, that is to say Liberall. He was at one
  time Lord President of all Island, bishop of Schalholt, and
  vicebishop of Holen. He died.                                    1420

                      XXI.
               Ionas Gerichson.
Sueden either sirnamed or borne is made Bishop ouer the Church of  1432
  Schalholt and afterward for certaine bolde attempts being taken
  by one Thorualdus de Modruuollum (as it is reported) and a great
  stone being bound to his necke, hee was cast aliue into the
  riuer of Schalholt, (which taketh name of the bridge) and was
  there strangled.

                      XXII.
                    Goswinus.
Bishop of Schalholt.                                               1445

                      XXIII.
                      Sueno.
Called the wise, bishop of Schalholt.                              1472

                      XXIV.
            Magnus sonne of Riolphus.
Bishop &c.                                                         1489

                      XXV.
                    Stephen.

Entreth the See. Then (liuing at one time with Godschalchus bishop 1494
  of Holen, who seemed worthy to be sirnamed cruel) he had the
  same commendations for mercy and iustice, that Godschalchus had.
He died: or thereabout.                                            1519

                      XXVI.
                   Augmundus.

Chosen in the yeere wherein Stephen deceased.
Entreth the see.                                                   1522
While he was Bishop, the kings Lieutenant with some of his
  followers being inuited to Schalholt, in the time of the banquet
  was slaine by certaine conspirators because hee had in all
  places wickedly wasted the inhabitants and their goods. But
  Augmundus as the authour of that murther (although he purged
  himselfe with an othe) being transported into Denmarke there
  ended his life.

                     XXVII.
                   Gysserus.
Elected, Augmundus yet liuing.                                     1540
Entred the see.                                                    1541
He was the abolisher of Popish traditions about Priests marriages:
  his owne marriage being solemnized at Schalholt.                 1544

                     XXVIII.
                    Martinus.
Bishop &c. And the yeeres following.                               1547

                     XXIX.
                 Gislaus Ionas.
This man presently, in the time of bishop Augmund began in his
  youth to be enflamed with the loue of true pietie, & of the pure
  doctrine of the Gospel, & being pastour of the Church of
  Selardal, diligently to aduance the same, by which meanes he did
  so procure vnto himselfe the hatred of Papists, as being
  constreined to giue place vnto their craft & crueltie, he
  departed ouer to Hamburg, from whence comming to Copen Hagen in
  Denmarke & painefully proceeding in his former study of
  diuintie, he liued in the familiaritie, and fauour of many, but
  specially of D. D. Peter Palladius: who was at that time bishop
  there. Afterward returning into his countrey, Martine gaue place 1556
  vnto him of his owne accord. This man died also, hauing for the  1587
  space of 31. years or there abouts, professed the Gospel of
  Iesus Christ: neither did he helpe & further the Church of God
  by the sound of his voice much, but by all other meanes to the
  vtmost of his abilities, by teaching, preaching, writing, by his
  wealth & his counsel.

                     XXX.
                  Otto Knerus.
A graue, godly, and learned man. Being Chosen he departeth his     1588
  country. Hee is consecrated returneth, and entreth the sea,      1589
  endeuouring himselfe in the labours of his function.

       *        *       *       *       *

The Bishops of Holen                                          In the yeere
                                                                of Christ

                     I.
           Ionas sonne of Augrnundus.
Isleif his disciple.                                               1106
Consecrated beyonde the seas in the yeere of his age 64, his
  surname was Sanctus, vnto whose memorie the 3. of March was by
  the inhabitants in old time dedicated.
Dieth the 11. of the Kalends of May.                               1121

                     II.
             Ketillus or Catullus.
Consecrated.                                                       1121
Dieth.                                                             1145

                     III.
                    Biorno.
Being consecrated came into Island.                                1147
Dieth.                                                             1162

                     IV.
                   Brandus.
Consecrated                                                        1163
Entreth his Episcopall see.                                        1165
Dieth.                                                             1201

                     V.
           Gudmundus sirnamed Bonus.
Elected and consecrated.                                           1203
Dieth.                                                             1237

                     VI.
                 Botolphus.
Returneth consecrated.                                             1239
Dieth.                                                             1246

                     VII.
                   Henricus.
Entreth the see.                                                   1247
Dieth.                                                             1260

                     VIII.
               Brandus an Abbat.
Goeth beyond the seas.                                             1262
Entreth the Bishopricke.                                           1263
Dieth.                                                             1264

                     IX.
                  Iorundus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1267
Dieth.                                                             1313

                     X.
                  Audunnus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1314
Dieth.                                                             1322

                     XI.
                 Laurentinus.
Elected and consecrated.                                           1324
Dieth in the Ides of April                                         1331

                     XII.
                    Egillus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1332
Dieth.                                                             1341

                     XIII.
                    Ormus.
Entreth his see.                                                   1343
Dieth vpon the feast of all Saints.                                1355

                     XIV.
          Ionas Sonne of Ericus, sirnamed Skalle.

Being to enter his sea of Holen came into Island. This Ionas       1358
  being before time consecrated bishop of Gronland, obteined       A Bishop
  licence of the bishop of Rome to enter the See of Holen, which   Gronland
  was at that time vacant. Whereupon comming and not bringing      1356
  with him the confirmation of this dignitie and function,
  receiued from the Pope hee began to be suspected among the
  priests of the diocesse of Holen. Wherefore he was sent backe
  by them into Norway that the matter might bee set through by
  the iudgement of the king. The king therefore fauouring his
  part, he obteined the bishopricke of Holen.
He dieth.                                                          1391

                      XV.
                     Peter.
Consecrated the same yeere wherein his predecessour departed out
  of this present life.
Entreth the see of Holen.                                          1392
Dieth

                      XVI.
               Ionas Wilhelmus.                              An Englishman
                                                                Bishop of
English, either borne or sirnamed.                               Island.
Entred the see.                                                   1432

                      XVII.
                   Godschalcus.
Died.                                                             1457

                      XVIII.
                      Olaus.

Son of Rogwaldus nephew to the forenamed Godschalcus by the
  sisters side, both of them being Norwayes.
He was established.                                               1458
He died.                                                          1497

                      XIX.
                   Godschalcus.

The nephewe of Olaus deceased, by the brothers side: also hee
  being a Noruagian was elected the same yeere wherein his vncle
  deceased.
He entreth the see. And for the space of 20. whole yeres is       1500
  reported cruelly to haue entreated many of the subiects. In
  the yeere 1520. when he was in the midst of his cups, and
  banquetting dishes, and heard that Ionas Sigismundus was
  departed out of this life (whom with his wife and children,
  he had for many yeres most cruelly oppressed) he presently
  fell into a sudden disease, and so not long after changed that
  violence for miserable death, which in his whole life he had
  vsed against his distressed subiects.

                      XX.
                 Ionas Aræsonius.
Entreth the see.                                                  1525
This man was the last and most earnest mainteiner of Popish
  superstitions. Who stoutely withstanding Gysserus and Martinus
  bishops of Schalholt, was commanded by the most religious king
  Christian the 3. vnder paine of banishment to come with all
  speed into Denmarke. But neglecting the king's commaundement,
  hee tooke Martine bishop of Schalholt, and committed him to
  ward. At length he himselfe also being taken by a man of great
  name (whom before that time, it is saide, he had prouoked) and
  being brought to Schalholt, was, together with his two sonnes,
  by the authoritie of the kings Lieutenant beheaded. In reuenge  1551
  whereof not long after, the saide Lieu-tenant with some of his
  company, was villanously slaine by certaine roysters, which
  were once seruants to the parties beheaded.

                      XXI.
                 Olaus Walterus.
Departed his countrey.                                            1552
Entreth the see.                                                  1553

This man (being as yet in the life time of his predecessour
  fellow-labourer with him) was the first that kindled the loue
  of sincere doctrine at Holen in the hearts of many: and then
  being bishop did openly teache and defend the said doctrine.
He died.                                                          1568

                      XXII.
              Gudbrandus Thorlacius.
The ornament, not onely of his age, but of posteritie also who
  besides that, by the direction of the holy spirit, he hath
  most notably brought the worke begunne, and left vnto him by
  his predecessour Olaus to that perfection which it hath
  pleased God to vouchsafe: (namely his labours and diligence
  in maintayning the trueth of the Gospel, and in abolishing of
  Popish superstitions) euen in this his countrey hee is the
  first that hath established a Printing house. For which cause
  his countrey (besides, for many other books translated into our
  mother tongue) shalbe eternally bounded vnto him, that the
  sacred Bible also, by his meanes, is fairely printed in the
  language of Island. (I say) being at this present, Hee Bishop,
  when he was about to take his charge:
Departed his countrey.                                            1570
Returned and entred the see of Holen.                             1571


Circa hæc igitur tempora mentibus nostris è coelo redditta lux est, et
regni coelestis ianua per sinceriorem doctrinæ Christianæ expositionem
reserata. Nam et Schola triuialis in vtraque sede Episcopali, laudatissimi
Regis Daniæ Christiani tertij munificentia et pietate, circa annum 1553.
fundata est: ac subinde patris Christianissimi eximiam pietatem imitante
filio, Diuo Friderico secundo rege nostro sanctissimo, Anno 1588. ad
coelestem patriam euocato, aucta et promota: quæ etiam hodiè, clementissimi
regis et principis nostri, Christiani 4. fauore et nutu viget floretque: in
qua iuuentus nostræ Insulæ, artium dicendi et sacræ Theologiæ rudimentis
imbuta, ad scientiam et veram pietatem formatur, vt hinc ministri
Ecclesiarum petantur.

Peruenimus tandem ad hodiernum vsque diem in Episcoporum Islandiæ catalogo:
quo prædicti viri clarissimi Dom. Gudbrandus Thorlacius, et Dom. Otto
Enerus ille Holis, hic Schalholtiæ Ecclesiarum sunt antistites: quorum
vtrumque, vt Deus opt. max. Ecclesiæ suæ saluum et superstitem, propter
gloriam nominis sui sanctissimi, diu conseruare velit, omnes seriò et
ardentibus votis flagitamus.

The same in English.

In these times therefore light is restored vnto our soules from heauen, and
the gate of the kingdome of heauen is opened vnto vs by the sincere
preaching of Christian doctrine. For in either of the Bishops seats there
is a free schoole founded by the liberality and pietie of that most
renoumed King of Denmarke Christian the third: and afterward the sonne
following the godly steppes of his most Christian father, the said Free
schooles by Lord Friderick the second, our most religious King, being
called vp to his heauenly countrey in the yeare 1588, haue beene encreased
and furthered: which at this day also doe prosper and flourish by the
fauour and authoritie of the most gracious King and our Prince, Christian
the fourth, wherein the youth of our Islande being instructed in the
rudiments of liberall artes, and sacred diuinitie, are trained vp to
knowledge and true godlinesse, that from hence ministers of Churches may
proceede.

We are come at length in the register of the Bishops of Island downe to
this present day, wherein the forenamed excellent men Gudbrandus
Thorlacius, and Otto Enerus, the one at Holen, and the other at Schalholt
are Bishops of our Cathedrall Churches both of which men, that it would
please God long to preserue vnto his Church in health and life, for the
glorie of his most holy name, we all doe earnestly and with feruent prayers
beseech him.

SECTIO SECVNDA.

[Sidenote: Must. Krantz. Frisius.] Specus habitant plerùmque, aut ad
  montium latera in excauatis mansiunculis. Et mox: Templa habent multa et
  domos ex ossibus piscium et balenarum constructas. Item: Multi etiam ad
  pellendam frigoris asperitatem in cauernis latitant, quemadmodum Africani
  ad solis æstum vitandum. Item Munsterus. Multi in Islandia hodie costis
  et ossibus balenarum, domos suas construunt, &c.

Hic membrum secundum initium sumit, de incolarum viuendi ratione et
moribus. Et primùm, quibus vtantur, edificijs seu domibus: nempè secundum
Munsterum, Krantzium, Frisium, &c. Specubus et montium cauernis. Quamuis
autem in splendidis ædificijs, alijsque id genus mundani ornatus pretiosis
rebus parum inest, quod ad verè beatam vitam conferre queat, tamen nec hîc
veritatem tacere possumus: dicimúsque omnino Cosmographos et Historicos in
errore etiam hîc versari. Etenim, cuiusmodi gentis publica domicilia esse
scribunt, ea sunt tantùm in paucis locis, tum magalia, vt opilionum, tum
piscatorum casæ et receptacula, eo tantum anni tempore quo piscaturæ operam
dare, aut propter gregem excubare opus habent. [Sidenote: Negotiatio cum
Noruagis desijt. Sylua fluctibus maris delatæ.] At ipsas domus, seu ipsa
hominum domicilia, antiquitus quidem satis magnificè et sumptuosè, quoad
huius terræ fert conditio, ligno, cespite et saxis habuerunt Islandi
constructa, vsque ad illud tempus, quo illis cum Noruagis, qui ligna
sufficiebant, negociatio, et mercium commutatio esse desijt, quæ inde
paulatim collabi incipiunt: Cum nec syluas ædificijs aptas habeamus, nec
fluctuum maris beneficio iam vt olim ad littora, quod minima ex parte
sufficiat, adferatur: Nec mercatores extranei inopiæ nostræ succurrant.
Vnde plurima rura ignobiliora ab antiqua illa integritate multum
declinarunt, et iam quædam collapsa sunt, quædam ruinam minantur.
Nihilominus multa sunt prædia, multæ villæ, quas haud facile recensuero,
quarum ædificia veterem illam excellentiam imitantur, et quarum domus sunt
maximæ, et latæ et longæ, tum plærúmque benè altæ. Vt exempli gratia.
Prædia seu villæ, quæ cubilia habent plusquam 50. cubitos longa, 10. lata,
alta 20. Tum reliquas domus, vt coenaculum, hypocaustum, penuarium &c. huic
sua proportione respondentes. Possum multa nostratium ædificia ampla et
vasta, nec in speciem deformia, nec ob artis structuram et sumptuosam
firmitudinem, seu robur, contemnenda cum aliquot delubris, siue sacris
ædibus, solis lignis, antiqua et operosa grauitate et pulchritudine
extructis commemorare: Cuiusmodi est templum Cathedrale Holense atrium
habens, cuius columnæ vtrinque quinque vlnas 14. altæ, 5. circiter crassæ:
tum trabes ac tigna, et reliquum culmen, huic substructioni
proportionaliter respondens. Ligna ad hoc ipsum atrium Anno 1584. horrenda
tempestate collapsum, clementissimus Rex noster D. Fridericus cuius nobis
sacratissima est memoria, Anno 1588. benignissimè largitus est. Ipsum verò
templum atrium suum omni quantitate manifeste excedit: tum templi intima
pars quæ chorus appellari solet, et templi meditullio, et atrio magnitudine
nonnihil cedit. Erat autem hoc longè maius olim, vt accepi Schalholtense,
quod iam bis concrematum, ad inferiorem magnitudinem redactum est. Prætereà
aliquot alia templa nostræ Insulæ horum antiquam magnificentiam imitantia
licet non æquintia. Sed hic nequaquam res exigere videtur, vt in
prolixiorem eius rei descriptionem euager. Vt enim Domus et edificia nostra
nihil depredicamus: ita eorundem nos nihil pudet, quòd contenti paupertate
nostra Christo gratias immortales agamus, qui à nobis vili tecto non
dedignatur recipi, quòdque templa et domus nostras quas Munsterus Krantzius
et Frisius piscium et balenarum ossibus non verè dicunt extructas, non
aspernetur magis, quàm illa extraneorum culmina marmorea, parietes
vermiculatos pauimenta tesselata reliquùmque id genus ornamenti.

The same in English.

THE SECOND SECTION.

[Sidenote: Munsterus. Krantzius. Frisius.] They inhabite for the most part
  in caues, or hollowe places within the sides of mountaines. And againe,
  They haue many houses and Churches built with the bones of fishes, and
  Whales. Againe. Many of them also to auoide the extremitie of colde, doe
  keepe themselues close in their caues, euen as the people of Africa doe
  to auoyde the heate of the sunne. Also Munster sayth: Many in Island at
  this day build their houses with the ribbes and bones of Whales.

Here the second member taketh his beginning concerning the course of life,
and the manners of the inhabitants. And first of all what buildings or
houses they doe vse namely according to Munster, Krantinus, Frisius &c.
Holes and caues of mountaines. But although in gorgeous buildings, and such
other worldly braueries there is very little helpe to the attayning of a
life truely happie: notwithstanding, wee can not in this place conceale the
truth and we plainly affirme that Cosmographers and Historiographers also
doe erre in this point. For such habitations as they write to be common
vnto the whole nation, are but in verie fewe places, and are either
sheepe-cots for shepheards, or cottages and receptacles for fishermen at
that time of the yeere onely when they goe a fishing, and the others stande
in neede to watch their flocke. [Sidenote: Traffike with the people of
Norway ceaseth.] But for their houses themselues, and the verie dwelling
places of men, the Islanders haue had them built from auncient time stately
and sumptuously enough, according to the condition of the Countrey, with
timber, stones, and turfes, vntill such time as traffike and exchange of
wares beganne to cease betweene them and the Noruagians, who were wont to
supply them with timber, and for that cause nowe our houses beginne to
decay whenas neither we haue woods of conuenient for building, [Sidenote:
Drift wood not so plentifull now as in times past] nor yet there are nowe a
dayes, as there were in olde time, trees cast vpon our shores by the
benefite of the sea, which may in any sort relieue vs: neither doe
outlandish Merchants succour our neccessities; whereupon many of our
meanest countrey villages are much decayed from their auncicnt integritie,
some whereof be fallen to the ground, and others bee very ruinous.
Notwithstanding there be many farmes and villages which I cannot easily
reckon vp, the buildings whereof doe resemble that auncient excellencie,
the houses being verie large both in breadth and length, and for the most
part in height also As for example farmes or granges which conteine
chambers in them, more than fiftie cubites in length, tenne in breadth, and
twentie in height. And so other roomes, as a parler, a stoue, a butterie,
&c. answering in proportion vnto the former. I could here name many of our
countrey buildings both large and wide neither ilfauoured in shewe, nor
base in regarde of their workemanship and costly firmenesse or strength,
with certaine Churches also, or religious houses, built of timber onely,
according to auncient and artificiall seemelinesse and beautie: as the
Cathedrall Church of Holen hauing a bodie the fiue pillars whereof on both
sides be foure elnes high, and about fiue elnes thicke, as also beames and
weather-bourdes, and the rest of the roofe proportionally answering to this
lower building. Our most gracious King Lord Frederick, whose memory is most
sacred vnto vs, in the yere 1588. did most liberally bestowe timber for the
reedifying of this body being cast downe in the yere 1584. by an horrible
tempest. But the Church it selfe doth manifestlie exceed the body thereof
in all quantity: also the inner part of the Church, which is commonly
called the quier is somwhat lesse, both then the middle part of the Church,
and also then the bodie.

The Church of Schalholt was farre greater as I haue heard in olde time,
then this our Cathedrall, which hauing now beene twise burnt, is brought to
a lesser scantling. Likewise there be some other Churches of our Island,
although not matching, yet resembling the auncient magnificence of these.
But here the matter seemeth not to require that I shoulde runne into a long
description of these things. For as wee doe not greatly extoll our houses
and buildings, so are we nothing ashamed of them, because being content
with our pouertie, we render vnto Christ immortall prayse who despiseth not
to be receiued of vs vnder a base roofe, and contemneth not our temples and
houses (which Munster, Krantzius, and Frisius doe not truely affirme to be
built of fishes and Whales bones) more then the marble vaults, the painted
walles, the square pauements, and such like ornamentes of Churches and
houses in other countries.


SECTIO TERTIA.

[Sidenote: Munsterus Krantzius.] Commum tecto, victu, statu, (hic Krantzius
  habet, strato) gaudent cum iumentis. Item: Solo pastu pecorum et nunc
  captura piscium victitant.

Hæc sunt et sequentia, quæ Krantzius suo Munstero præmansa, in os ingessit,
adeò vt Munstero non opus fuent ea vel semel masticare, quod ex collatione
vtriusque patet. Munsterus enim hæc opprobria, vt ex Krantzij in suam
Noruegiam præfatione hausta deglutierat, ita eadem cruda lib. 4.
Cosmographiæ capit. 8. in gentem nostram euomit. Quæ hactenus fuerunt, etsi
satis grauia sunt, tolerabiliora tamen erant. Hoc verò commentum
malignissimum, et quæ sequentur, non facilè est sine stomacho præterire.
Nostrum igitur est, etiam hîc veritatem asserere, et mendacium in Authoris
caput retorquere.

Tecto: Primùm igitur quod de commum tecto (vti etiam de victu et statu) cum
iumentis dicunt, falsum et erroneum clamamus, teste non modò re ipsa, si
quis id hodiè perquirere volet: Sed etiam multorum extraneorum, qui aliquot
apud nos annos egerant, et veritati plus quam gentem nostram calumniandi
affectui tribuunt, experientia; qui ipsi domos et habitationes nostras
viderunt, et norunt in singulis prædijs seu villis, multas esse distinctas
domus: nempe in abiectissimis et vilissimis 7. vel 8. in maioribus, nunc
decem, nunc 20. In maximis, nunc 40, nunc 50; quæ vt plurimùm, et tecto et
parietibus distinctæ, vni possessori vel domino, rarò duobus aut tribus,
rarissimè pluribus inseruiunt, ac vsibus quotidianis et domesticis
sufficiunt. Vnde facilè intelligis, Lector, quàm verè eodem tecto cum
iumentis vtantur Islandi, cum singuli rustici in hac domuum varietate,
peculiaria bouilia, ouilia, equitia, agnilia, debitis interuallis dissita
habeant, quæ serui, quoties opus est, petunt, vnde rursus habitationem
subinde repetunt.

Quòd autem quidam in mappa Islandiæ de prouinca Skagefiord annotauit, sub
eodem tecto homines, canes, sues et oues, viuere, partim falsum, partim
minimè mirandum est. De ouibus quidem, vt iam dictum est, et præcipuè
suibus (cum illa prouincia sues non habeat) falsum: De canibus haud mirum,
cum illis nec regum aulæ caruerint nec hodiè careant, vt nimis omnibus est
notum. Sed de canibus paulò post Sect 7. huius.

Victu. An iumentorum pabula possint commodè victus appellatione contineri,
meritò dubitauerim. Cùm Doletus, Ciceronis interpretem agens, dicat:
Victum, inquit, cum iureconsultis, ita exponemus, vt victus verbo
contineantur, quæ esui, potui, cultuique corporis, quæque ad viuendum
homini sunt necessana. Et Vlpianus, de verborum significat. Ijsdem verbis
victum definit. Hoc loco verò Authores illi, etiam iumentorum pabula,
victum appellant.

Cæterum videamus quomodo hîc eluceat veritatis et candoris præstantia.
Iumenta non habemus præterquam equos et boues: His gramina et foenum (nisi
vbi foeni inopia obrepit) pabulum, aqua potum præbet. At hi ipsi scriptores
fatentur, Islandos piscibus, butyro, carnibus, tum bubulis, tum ouillis,
etiam frumento, licet pauco et aduentitio viuere. Non igitur cibum habent
cum brutis communem, quod tamen ijdem his verbis asserunt. Communi victu
gaudent cum iumentis: Quod quid sit Munstero, ipse paulò superius haud
obscurè docuit. Islandia, innquit, populos multos continet, solo pecorum
pastu, et nunc captura piscium victitantes. Quid autem est pecorum pastus,
aliud, quàm pecorum cibus? ait Doletus: nisi Munsterus fortè pecorum
pasium, ipsa pecora ad pastum hominum mactata appellet: cui, vt existimo,
vsus Romanorum refragatur, qui, vt homines vesci, ita pecora pasci docuit:
hominúmque victum pecorum autem, pastum et pabulum vocari iussit. An verò
existimem tam dementes fuisse Munsterum et Krantzium vt senserint Islandos
graminibus et foeno viuere? Quo miseriæ Nabuchodonozor, diuinæ vltionis
iugum subiens redactus est Dani 4. 30. Facilè dabimus multa, quibus
homines, non modò nostrates, sed vestrates quoque vescuntur, iumenta et
pecora fortè non reijcere, si familiari pabulo destituantur. Vt equi
frumento et panibus hordeaceis pascuntur: ijdem lac (quemadmodum etiam
vituli et agni) et cereuisiam, si offeratur bibunt, et quidem auidè. Sed et
canes quævis fercula et cibaria deuorant. An idcircò quisquam dicet,
homines communi victu cum canibus et iumentis gaudere?

Iam quæcunque famis grassantis tempore contigere pro vniuersali gentis
alicuius consuetudine in historiam referri non debent. Vt non licet nobis
de extraneis scribere huius aut illius terræ populos canum murium aut
felium vsu victitare solitos, etsi fortè fame siue obsidione, siue alioqui
annonas charitate inualescente immissa, id factitarint.

Potum autem interdum esse multis cum iumentis communem non magnoperè
contraibimus: nempè aquam limpidissimam, naturalem ilium potum omnibus
animantibus à Deo creatum quem etiam ex parte, medicinæ consulti comendant,
imò nec patres Hebræi nec ipse Seruator noster fastidiebat.

Ad amictum verò quod attinet, (Nam et amictum victus vocabulo
comprehendimus) nequaquam hic cum iumentis communis est. Illa enim pilis et
villis natura (quod Munsterum et Krantzium nouisse iurarim) vestiuit:
homines, alioqui nudi, pannis corpus induere necesse habent. Hæc indumenta,
quæ quidem Islandia suppeditat, ex lanis ouium conficiuntur. Sed non
cogitaram ideò recte dici, amictum esse nobis cum ouibus communem siue
eundem. Vtuntur etiam extranei pannis ex ouilla lana confectis, licet
artificio subtiliore. Sed de indumentis nihil: Stultum enim est, ex eo
laudem vel superbam æstimationem quærere quod naturæ nostræ infirmitatem
arguit.

Statu. Restat ille status quem cum brutis habere communem dicimur. Qui
qualis aut cuiusmodi sit, aut eum esse velint nostri scriptores, certè non
facilè assequor. Status inquit Doletus est vel corporis, vel causarum vel
ordinis et conditionis. Certè alium esse statum nostri corporis quàm
iumentorum (nam præter duos pedes etiam manus habemus et corpore ac vultu
sursum erecto incedimus) alium item ordinem et conditionem nostram ducimus.
Illi boni viri si id de se aut alijs cognitum habent fateantur. Nos hæc tam
vana et in Deum creatorem nostrum tam contemptibilia irridemus, nec
prolixiore tractatu dignamur.

[Sidenote: Occasi harum fabularum.] Cæterum quia nostrum est nec amori
patriæ, nec vlli rei tantum tribuere, quin plus semper et vbique veritati
largiamur: Dicam quid sit quod huic infami scriptorum conuicio occasionem
fortè dederit.

Sunt in vicinia Schalholtiæ, ad littus Islandie australe paroechiolæ tres,
inter duos rapidissimos amnes Thiorsaa et Olffwis Aa interceptæ; quæ et
syluis et cespitibus consueto gentis ad focos alendos fomite ferè
destituuntur. In istis paroechijs habitantes et si qui sint vicini, quamuis
plures eorum, vt de omnibus rebus ad rem familiarem pertinentibus, ita
etiam de his, quæ ad focos et balnea opus habent, sibi opportunè
prospiciunt: Tamen sunt inter eos quidam sed infirma tantum sortis coloni,
qui quoniam estis rebus domi destituantur, nec aliunde petere eas valeant
in culinis foeno ad coquendos cibos vtuntur: Ast vbi hyemis niuosæ sævitia
horrida ingruit, coloni isti miseri ad suum bouile refugiunt illic scilicet
exstructis tabulatis interidiù operas domesticas exercentes, à bobus, cum
focos habere nequeant, calorem mutuantur, quemadmodum mihi ab alijs
narratum est. Sicque illi tantùm qui sanè paucissimi sunt, communi cum
bobus tecto in bruma vti quidem non gaudent, sed coguntur. Verùm victum et
statum longè alium habent, de qua re hactenus. Hæc est in istis
Paroechiolis quorundam sors et inopia, quorum conditio idcirco etiam apud
nos fabula vulgi effecta est, quamuis non satis iustè. Vbi quo iure toti
genti tribuatur, quod vix ac ne vix quidem de istis paucis colonis verùm
est, libentur quæsierim? Tædet de his pluribus agere: Tantum quia mihi cum
Theologis res est illud Saiomonis ijs reponam. [Sidenote: Prouerb 14.] Qui
calummatur egenum, deridet factorem eius.

Equidem quia gens hæc nostra pauper et egena est et fuit, ad veluti quidam
mendicus inter diuites, tot extraneorum probra et scommata tulit. Sed
videant cui exprobrent. Certè, si aliud nihil nobis cum illis commune est,
tamen omnes ex ijsdem constamus elementis, et vnus et idem omnium Pater,
Deus.

The same in English.

THE THIRD SECTION.

[Sidenote: Krantzius Munsterus.] They and their cattell vse all one house,
  all one food or victuals, one state (here Krantzius hath it lodging.)
  Also. They liue onely by feeding of cattell, and sometimes by taking of
  fishes.

Those be the things together with those that followe, which Krantzius hath
champed, and put into Munsters mouth, so that Munster shall not neede so
much as once to chewe them, which may appeare by comparing them both
together. For Munster, as hee swallowed these reproches, taking them out of
Krantzius his preface vpon Norway, so he casteth vp the verie same morsels
vndigested and rawe against our nation, in his fourth booke of Cosmographie
cap. 8. Those things which haue beene hitherto, although they haue
sufficiently grieued vs yet will we let them seeme more tollerable: but
this most malitious deuise, and those which follow we cannot easily brooke.
It is our part therefore in this place also to auouch the trueth, and to
turne the leasing vpon the authors owne head.

House, &c. First, that which they say concerning the same common house (as
also liuing, and state) with our cattell, we plainely affirme to be false
and erronious, not onely the truth it selfe being our witnesse, if any man
would make triall, but also the experience of manie strangers, that haue
liued some yeeres amongst vs, and haue more minde to speake the trueth then
to reuile our nation: who haue seene our house and habitations with their
owne eyes, and knewe that in euery particular farme or graunge there were
many seuerall roomes namely, in those that were most simple and base, seuen
or eight: In others which were greater, sometimes tenne, and sometimes
twentie. In the greatest sometimes fortie, and sometimes fiftie. Which for
the most part being seuered, both by roofes and walles, doe serue for the
dayly and household affaires of one owner or master, seldome of two or
three, but almost neuer of more: whereupon the Reader may easily iudge,
howe true it is that the Islanders and their cattell haue all one house to
lie in, when euery husbandman in this varietie of roomes hath seuerall oxe
stalles, sheepe-cotes, stables lambes-cots separated in different spaces
one from another, which the seruants goe vnto so oft as neede requireth,
and from thence returne backe to the dwelling houses.

But whereas one noted in his Mappe of Island, concerning the prouince of
Skagefiord, that vnder the same roofe, men, dogges swine and sheepe liue
altogether, it is partly false, and partly no maruell: for sheepe, as it
hath been sayde, and especially for swine (when as that prouince hath no
swine at alt) it is vtterly false: for dogges it is no maruell, when is not
kings courts were euer, or at this day are destitute of them, as it is well
knowen to all men. But as touching dogges afterward in the seuenth section.

Victuals, &c. Whither beasts meate may fitly be termed by the name of
Victus, a man may lustly doubt: When Doletus interpreting a peece of
Tullie, saith: As for Victus (sayth he) wee will so expound it with the
Ciuilians, namely that we comprehend vnder the word of Victus all things
necessarie for the life of man as meate, drinke, attire of the bodie, &c.
And Vlpianus de verborum significatione defineth Victus in the very same
words. But in this place the saide authors call beaste meate by the name of
Victus.

But let vs see what trueth and plaine dealing is to be found in these men.
We haue no labouring cattel besides horses and oxen: these haue grasse and
hay (except where haye is wanting) for their fodder, and water to drinke.
Now, the very same writers confesse, that the Islanders liue by fish,
butter, flesh both beefe and mutton, and corne also, though it bee scarce,
and brought out of other countries. Therefore they haue not the same foode
with brute beasts, which notwithstanding the sayde writers affirme in these
wordes: They and their cattel vse all one victuals or food. What Munsters
meaning is in this clause, he himselfe a little before hath plainely
taught.

Island (saith he) conteineth many people liuing onely with the food of
cattell, and sometimes by taking of fishes. But what else is the food of
cattell, but the meat of cattell, saith Doletus? Vnlesse perhaps Munster
calleth the food of cattell, cattell themselues slaine for the foode of
men: whom, as I thinke, the vse of the latine tongue doth gaine say, which
hath taught vs that as men doe eate, so beasts do feede, and hath termed
the victuals of men, and the food or fodder of cattell. But may I thinke
that Munster and Krantzius were so mad as to imagine that the Islanders
liue vpon grasse and hay: To this passe of miserie was Nabuchodonozor
brought vndergoing the yoke of Gods vengeance Daniel 4. vers. 30. We will
easily graunt that beasts and cattell will not perhaps refuse many things,
which men not onely of our countrey but of yours also eate, if the saide
beasts be destitute of their vsuall food: as horses are fedde with corne
and barley loaues: they will drinke milke also (like vnto calues and
lambes) and ale if it be proffered them, and that greedily. And dogges in
like manner will deuour any deinty dishes whatsoeuer. May any man therefore
say that men vse the same common victuals with dogges and horses?

Now, whatsoeuer things haue happened in the time of grieuous famine ought
not to be recorded in historie for the generall custome of any countrey. As
it is not lawfull for vs to write concerning other nations, that the people
of this or that countrie, doe vsually liue by eating of dogs, mise, cats,
although perhaps in the time of famine or seige or dearth of corne, they
haue often bene constrained so to doe.

But that the same drinke is sometimes common to many men with beasts we
will not greatly gainesay: namely most pure water, that naturall drinke
created by God for all liuing creatures: which also in some respect
Phisicians doe commende, yea, neither the Patriarkes themselues, nor our
sauiour Christ despised it.

As touching apparell (for we comprehend apparell also vnder the name of
Victus) it is no wise common to vs with beasts. For nature hath clad them
with hairs and bristles (as I dare say Munster and Krantzius cannot be
ignorant) men, being otherwise naked stande in neede of clothes to couer
their bodies. But I had not thought it might therefore haue properly beene
sayde that sheepe and we haue all one apparell. Men of other countries also
weare cloth of sheepes wooll, although it be more finely wrought. But no
more concerning the attire of the bodie. For it is a meere folly to seeke
for praise, and ambitious reputation by that, which argueth the infirmitie
of our nature.

State, &c. Now, it remaineth that we should speake of that state, which we
are sayd to haue common with beasts; but of what kinde or maner it should
be, or our writers would haue it to be I cannot easily discerne. State
(sayth Doletus) is either of the body, or of causes, or of order and
condition. Doubtlesse, that there is another state of our bodies then of
beasts (for besides our two feet, we haue hands also, and go with our
bodies, and countenances lift vpright) and that we be of another order and
condition from them, we are verily perswaded. As for these good fellowes,
if they know any such matter by themselues or others, let them disclose it.
We doe altogether scorne these, being so vaine things, and breeding so
great contempt against the Maiesty of God our creator, neither do we
vouchsafe them any larger discourse.

But because it is our duty not so highly to regard either the loue of our
countrey, or of any other thing whatsoeuer, but that we may be ready at all
times and in all places, to giue trueth the preheminence: I will say in a
word what that was which perhaps might minister occasion to this infamous
reproch of writers.

There be neere vnto Schalholt, vpon the South shore of Island three small
parishes standing betweene two most swift riuers Thiorsaa and Olffwis Aa,
being in a maner destitute both of wood and turfe, which is the accustomed
fewell of the countrey. And although most of the inhabitants of these
parishes and some of their neighbours, as they doe in time of yeere prouide
all things necessary for householde, so especially those things which
belong to fires and bathes: notwithstanding there be certaine among them of
the basest sort of people, who because they want those things at home, and
are not able to prouide them from other places, are constrained to vse
straw for the dressing of their meat. But when the sharpe rigor of snowy
Winter commeth on, these poore people betake them to their oxe stalles, and
there setting vp sheds, and doing their necessary businesse in the day
time, when they are not able to make fires, they borrow heat from their
oxen, as it hath beene reported to mee by others: And so they onely being
verie fewe in number, doe not willingly enioye, but are constrayned to vse
the same common house with their oxen. But for their liuelihoode and state
it is farre otherwise with them then with their oxen, of which thing I haue
entreated before. This is the lot, & pouertie of certaine men in those
pettie parishes, the condition whereof is therefore made a common byworde
of the people amongst vs, though somewhat iniuriously. Where I would
willingly demaund with what honestie men can impute that vnto the whole
nation, which is hard and skantly true of these fewe poore men? I am wearie
to stay any longer in this matter: onely, because I haue to doe with
Diuines, let that of Salomon suffice, Prouerbs 17, verse 5. Hee that
mocketh the poore, reprocheth him that made him.

And in very deede, because this our nation is nowe, and heretofore hath
been poore and needie, and as it were a begger amongest many rich men, it
hath susteined so many taunts and scoffes of strangers. But let them take
heede whom they vpbraide. Verely if there were nothing else common vnto vs
with them, yet we both consist of the same elements, and haue all one
father and God.

SECTIO QUARTA.

[Sidenote: Krantzius Munster] In simplicitate sancta vitam agunt, cum nihil
  amplius quærant quàm natura concedit. Beata gens, cuius paupertati nullus
  inuidet. Sed mercatores Anglici et Dani quiescere gentem non sinunt, qui
  ob piscaturam vehendam terram illam frequentantes cum mercibus omnigenis
  vitia quoque nostra inuexerunt. Nam et fruges aquæ miscere in potum
  didicerunt, et simplicis aquæ haustus oderunt. Nunc aurum et argentum cum
  nostris admirantur.

Simplicitate. Equidem sanctæ simphcitatis laudem nobis attribui, meritò
gaudemus: Sed id dolemus, quòd reperiatur etiam apud nos iustitiæ ac legum
ingens deprauatio, ac magna anarchia, quam multorum scelerum myriades
consequuntur, quod pij et boni omnes quotidiè deplorant. Id mali autem
nequaquam supremi Magistratus, hoc est, Regis nostri clementissimi, sed
verius nostra culpa accidit: qui hæc quæ clàm ipso præposterè geruntur et
quæ in inferiore magistratu desiderantur, ad maiestatem ipsius non
deferimus.

Mercatores. Mercatores porrò, non solùm Angli et Dani, sed maximè Germani,
vt nunc, ita olim terram nostram, non ob piscaturam sed pisces euehendos
frequentantes, nequaquam artem illam, miscendarum frugum aquæ, Islandos
docuerunt. Quippe ipsi Noruagi primi, quòd nobis constet, terræ nostræ
incolæ; à quibus oriundi sunt Islandi, artem illam, sicut etiam aureos
argenteósque nummos, secum ex Noruegia attulerunt; vt initio non fuerit
minor argenti et auri vsus apud nos, quàm est hodiè.

Et quidem ante Danorum, Germanorum, Anglorumue frequentes ad nos
nauigationes, terra nostra multò, quàm nunc, senescentis mundi incommoda,
coelo solóque persentiens, fertilior, in delectis simis quibúsque locis,
Cereris munera produxit.


The same in English.

THE FOURTH SECTION.

[Sidenote: Krantzius. Munster.] They leade their liues in holy simplicitie,
  not seeking any more then nature doeth afforde. A happie Nation, whose
  pouertie no man doth enuie. But the English and Danish merchants suffer
  not the nation to be at rest, who frequenting that countrey to transport
  fishing, haue conueighed thither our vices, together with their manifolde
  wares. For nowe, they haue learned to brew their water with corne, and
  beginne to despise, and loath the drinking of faire water. Now they couet
  golde and siluer like vnto our men.

Simplicitie, &c. I am exceedingly glad, that the commendation of holy
simplicitie is giuen vnto vs. But it grieueth vs that there is found so
great a decay of iustice, and good lawes, and so great want of gouernement
amongst vs, which is the cause of many thousande haynous offences which all
honest and godly men doe continually bewayle. This inconuenience doth not
happen through the negligence of the highest Magistrate, that is of our
most gracious King, but rather by our owne fault, who doe not present these
thinges vnto his Maiestie, which are disorderly committed without his
knowledge, and which are wanting in the inferiour Magistrate.

Merchants. Moreouer, Merchants, not onely of England and Denmarke, but
especially of Germanie, as at this time, so heretofore frequenting our
countrey, not to transport fishing, but fishes, taught not Islanders the
arte of brewing corne with water. For the Noruagians themselues, the first,
to our knowledge, that inhabited this Island, from whom ye Islanders are
lineally descended, brought with them out of Norway that arte, as also
golde and siluer coine, so that in old time there was no lesse vse of
siluer and golde with vs, then there is at this day.

[Sidenote: Corne of old time growing on Island.] And it is certaine that
before the often nauigations of Danes, Germans, and English men vnto vs,
our land was much more fertile then nowe it is (feeling the inconueniences
of the aged and decayed worlde, both from heauen and earth) and brought
foorth, in certaine choyse places, corne in abundance.


SECTIO QUINTA.

[Sidenote: Munsterus. Krantzius.] Rex Daniæ qui et Noruagiæ quotannis
  præfectum immittit genti.

Anno Domino 846. natus est Haraldus Harfagre (quod auricomum vel
pulchricomum dixeris) Qui deinde Anno 858, Rex Noruagiæ designatus, vbi
ætas viresque iustum incrementum acceperunt, formam imperij Noruagici
mutauit. Nam antea in minutas prouincias diuisum (quas Fylki vocabant, et
qui his præerant regulos, Fylkis Konga) ad Monarchiam armis potentibus
redegit. Id cum et genere et potentia valentes aliquot regni incolæ ægrè
ferrent, patria exulare, quàm ipsius Tyrannidis iugum non detrectare
maluerunt. Vnde hi in Islandiam, antea quidem à quibusdam visam et
inuentam, at desertam tamen, colonias, dicto Superius Anno 874.
transtulerunt: Atque sic genti nostræ originem præbentes, se Islandos
nuncuparunt, quod nomen hodiè posteri retinent. Vixerunt itaque Islandi
diu, nullius imperium agnoscentes, annis scilicet 386. plus minus. Et
quamuis Rex Noruagiæ Haquinus ille conatus, qui omnium regum Noruagiæ
diutissimè, nempe plusquam 66. annos imperium gerebat, sæpè per legatos
tentarat tributarios sibi facere Islandos, constanter tamen semper
restiterunt, donec tandem circa annum Domini 1260. homagium ipsi
præstarent. [Sidenote: Margareta.] Atque postea semper in data fide
persistentes, et regibus Noruagiæ parentes, translato per Margaretam,
Daniæ, Sueciæ, et Noruagiæ reginam, Noruagorum imperio, ad Danos, vnà cum
reliquis imperij Noruagici Insulis, Serenissimum Daniæ regem; Dominum et
Regem suum hodiè salutant.

The same in English.

THE FIFTH SECTION.

[Sidenote: Munsterus. Krantzius.] The King of Denmarke and Norway sendeth
  euery yeere a Lieutenant into the Countrey.

In the yeere of our Lord eight hundred fortie and sixe Harold Harfagre
(which is to say, golden haires or faire lockes) was borne. Who afterward
in the yeere eight hundred fiftie and eight, being chosen king of Norway,
when he was growen to age, and full strength, chaunged the forme of the
Noruagian gouernment. For whereas before it was diuided into pettie
Prouinces (which they called Fylki, and the pettie kings that gouerned
them, fylkis konga) he reduced it by force of armes vnto a Monarchie.
[Sidenote: The occasion of the first inhabiting of Island by the people of
Norway.] But when some inhabitants of the countrie, being mightie, and
descended of good parentages, could not well brooke this hard dealing, they
chose rather to be banished their countrey, then not to shake off the yoke
of tyranny. Whereupon, they in the yeere aboue named eight hundred seuentie
and foure, transported colonies into Island being before discouered by some
men and found out, but vnpeopled as yet: And so being the first founders of
our nation, they called themselues Islanders, which name their posteritie
reteineth vnto this day. And therefore the Islanders liued a long time,
namely, three hundred eightie and sixe yeeres, more or lesse, acknowledging
no submission to any other Nation. [Sidenote: Haquinus coronatus.] And
although Haquinus that crowned King of Norway who reigned longest of any
Noruagian king, namely, about sixtie sixe yeares, did oftentimes attempt by
Ambassadours to make the Islanders become tributaries vnto him,
notwithstanding at all times they constantly withstoode him, till at length
about the yeere of our Lord 1260. they performed homage vnto him. And
afterward continued alwayes in their promised loyaltie, being subiects to
the king of Norway. But now at this day, since the Empire of the Noruagians
was translated by Margaret Queene of Denmarke, Suedeland, and Norway vnto
the Danes, they doe honour as their soueraigne Lord and King the most
gracious king of Denmarke.


SEXIO SEXTA.

[Sidenote: Krantzius Munsterus] Omnia eos communia sunt, præter vxores.

Hoc loco præmittit Krantzius talem Ironiam.

Multa insignia in moribus illorum, &c. Porrò etiam hic fidem vestram eleuat
ingenium, ad asserendum res incompertas nimis procliue, cupidinem
nouitatis, et nominis ac famaæ, imò veritatis curam preposteram arguit,
omnium et rerum personarúmque et temporum experientia: O scriptores
suspiciendi.

Testes sunt leges politicæ, quibus inde ab initio cum Noruagis vsi sunt
eisdem Islandi: De Rege et subditis: De foro, et his quæ in forensem
disceptationem cadere possunt: De hæreditatibus: adoptionibus, nuptijs,
furto, rapinis, mutuo contractibus et cæteris: Quæ omnia, quorsum illis,
quebus res omnes sunt communes? Testes sunt, tot de bonis mobilibus et
immobilibus contentiones, turbæ et certamina, in foris ac iudicijs
Islandorum: Testes sunt Reges nunc Daniæ et olim Noruagiæ, qui tot libellis
supplicibus Islandorum, ad componendas istas de possessionibus
controuersias, olim et nunc interpellati sæpè fuerant. Testis contra
seipsum Krantzius, cuius verba distinction. i. huius, hæc fuerunt. Ante
susceptam Christi fidem (Islandi) lege naturali viuentes parum à lege
nostra discrepabant, &c. Si lege naturæ, certè lege illa iustitiæ, quæ
tribuit vnicuique suum: Si lege iustitiæ, certè proprietatum et dominiorum
distinctiones in nostra gente locum habuisse oportet: Quanquam autem in
hanc ipsam legem etiam in Ecclesia, et quidem satis atrocitur, sæpè
delinquitur tamen et Ecclesia et Ethnici iustissimam et optimam esse semper
fassi sunt.

The same in English.

THE SIXTH SECTION.

[Sidenote: Krantzius. Munsterus.] All things are common among them except
  their wiues.

Here Krantzius in the first place beginneth with such a gybe There be many
notable things in their manners, &c. Moreouer, your wit being too hastie in
affirming things vnknowen, doth here also diminish your credite. The
experience as well of all things as of persons and times proueth your ouer
greedie desire of noueltie, of fame and vaine glorie, and argueth your
great negligence in maintaining the truth. O worthy writers.

But whether the aforesayde things bee true or no, wee call the lawes of our
Countrey to witnesse, which the Islanders from the beginning haue vsed all
one with the Norwayes: of the King and his subiects: of the seate of
iustice, and of law cases which come to be decided there, of inheritances:
of adoptions, marriages, theft, extortions, lending, bargaines, and the
rest: all which, to what purpose should they be enioyned vnto them with
whom all things are common? We call to witnesse so many broyls and
contentions in our courts, and places of iudgement in Island concerning
goods mooueable, and immooueable: we call to witnesse our kings now of
Denmarke, aforetime of Norway, who by so many billes of supplication out of
Island in old time, and of late haue beene often interrupted, for the
setting through of controuersies concerning possessions. Wee call Krantzius
himselfe to witnesse against himselfe, whose words in the first section
were these: Before the receiuing of Christian faith the Islanders liuing
according to the lawe of nature did not much differ from our lawe &c. If by
the lawe of nature, then doubtlesse by that lawe of iustice, which giueth
to euery man his owne: If by the lawe of iustice, then certainely
distinctions of properties and possessions must needes haue taken place in
our Nation: and although this very lawe is often transgressed, and that
haynously euen in the Church: notwithstanding both the Church, and also
heathen men doe acknowledge it to be most iust and good.


SECTIO SEPTIMA.

Catulos suos et pueros æquo habent in precio: Nisi quod à pauperioribus
  facilius impetrabis filium quàm catulum, &c.

Quamuis principio huius commentarioli censuerim, Munsterum et alios magni
nominis viros, in ijs, quæ de Islandia scripta reliquerunt, esse à calumnæ
nota liberandos: num tamen id hîc, etiam à candidissimo et maxime sincero
quocunque fieri possit, non satis video. Quid enim mouit tantos viros, vt
Nautarum maleuolas nugas et mendacia secuti, tam atroci et contumelioso
opprobrio gentem nostram diffamarent, commacularentque? Nihil profectò,
nisi secura ridendi et contemnendi gentem pauperem et ignotam, licentia, et
si quæ sunt huic vicia confinia.

Cæterum nôrint omnes non tam Islandis, quàm ipsis Authoribus, incommodare
hoc mendacium. Cum enim illud, et plurima etiam alia in historiam suam
accumulant, efficiunt vnà, vt alibi quoque suspectæ fidei habeantur.
Illudque quod ait Aristoteles lucrantur, vt cum vera dixerint, illis sine
suspitione non credatur.

Sed age Lector, subsiste paulisper, mecùmque grauitatem et sapientiam
tantorum virorum expende: Ne tantum Islandiæ Elogium intactum prætereamus.
Docuerunt hactenus Krantzius et Munsterus: Islandos esse Christianos. Item:
Islandos ante susceptam Christi fidem lege naturali vixisse. Item: Islandos
vixisse lege quadam non multum à lege Germanorum discrepante. Item: Vixisse
eos in sancta simplicitate. Adesdum igitur Lector, et quas Christianismi,
Legis naturalis, legis Germanorum, santæ simplicitatis notas Authores illi
requirant, et in Islandis monstrent ac depingant, perpende. Vna fuit supra,
quòd infernum siue carcerem damnatorum montis Heclæ voragine et radicibus
circumscribant Islandi: de quo vide Sect. i. huius: et sect. 7. prior.
part. Altera nota, quòd, cum Anabaptistis, proprietatum et dominiorum
distinctiones tollant: de quo Sect. præced. Tertia eàque longe
excellentissima hæc est: illi præclari affectus naturales, amor, cura, et
animus tam pius et paternus Islandorum in liberos, quòd videlicit eiusdem
precij sint apud illos canes et filij, aut hi etiam viltoris. Siccine nobis
Munstere et Krantzi. Legem Christi, naturæ, Germanorum, et sanctam
simplicitatem depingitis: O picturam præclaram et excellentem, quamuis non
prorsus Apellæam: O Inuentum acutum et admirandum, si benè authenticum: O
scientiam plusquàm humanam, etsi non prorsus diuinam.

Nos verò Islandi, quamuis vltimi et gelidum conclusi ad Arcton, longè alias
Christianismi notas requirimis. Nam et præceptum Dei habemus, vt quilibet
proximum diligat velut seipsum. Iam nemo est, puto, qui seipsum non plus
diligat, aut pluris faciat, quàm canem. Quod si tantus esse debet proximi
cuiuslibet fauor, tanta æstimatio, tantus amor, quantus quæso erit in
liberos? Quorum arctissimum amorem, præterquam quod ipsa parens natura
nobis firmissimè conciliauit, etiam Lex diuina curam summam in enutriendo
habere iussit (Exo. 12. 24. Ephe. 6, 4.) vt scilicet sint in sancto
coniugio, Ecclesiæ quædam seminaria, omnis pietatis et honestatis
exercitia: Prout vates ille pulcherrimè cecinit.

     Vult Ecclesiolam quamlibet esse domum.

     Item: Coniugium humanæ quædam est Academia vitæ.

Vt iam satis constet, apud Christianos longè pluris faciendos et curandos
filios, quàm canes: Et, si qui non aliter curent, Christianos non esse.

Sed et hic in prolem dulcissimam affectus naturalis in Ethnicis etiam satis
apertè conspicitur: vt si quos hoc penitùs exueris, eosdem etiam homines
esse negaueris. Monstrant id matres Carthaginenses, cum tertio bello Punico
adolescentes quique lectissimi obsides in Siciliam mitterentur, quos illæ
fletu et lamentatione miserabili ad naues comitatæ, et ex his quædam à
filioram compleximus ægrè diuulsæ, cum ventis pandi vela cernerent,
nauesque è portu egredi, dolore stimulante, in subiectos fluctus
dissiluere: Sabellico authore. Monstrat Ægeus, qui nauem filij Thesei, cum
velis atri coloris, ex Creta redeuntem cerneret, perijsse filium ratus,
vitam in proximis vndis finiuit. Sabellic. lib. 3. cap. 4. Monstrat
Gordianus senior, Africæ proconsul, qui similiter, ob rumores de morte
filij, vitam suspendio clausit. Campofulgos. lib. 5. cap. 7. Monstrant idem
Iocasta Creontis filia, Auctolia Sinonis F. Anius Tuscorum Rex, Orodes Rex
Parthorum, et alij numero innumero. De quibus vide stat. lib. 2.
Plutarchum, et alios, &c. Huc illud. Amor descendit, &c. Adeò, vt videas
non minus esse homini proprium, sobolem intimè diligere, et summo amore
prosequi, quàm aut volare; vt si iam aliquando homines esse Islandos, nedum
Christianos scriptores nostri fassi sint, hunc amorem et affectum in filios
ijsdem, quantumuis inuiti et repugnantes, adscribant: sin minus, non modò
hominis titulum et dignitatem illis detrahant, sed etiam infrà bruta et
quasuis bestias, quæ ipsæ, stimulante natura, maximo prolis suæ et
arctissimo amore tenentur, deprimant.

Non addam contra hoc impudens mendacium exempla etiam nostratium satis
illustria: Tacebo leges nostras plagiarias ipsis Islandis antiquiores,
quippe a Noruagis acceptas, quæ exstant in codice legum nostrarum, titulo
Mannhelge: cap. 5. Si quis hominem liberum (quemuis nedum filium) extraneis
vendat, &c.

Iam verò si quis eò fortunæ deueniat, vt proprium filium, siue incolæ, siue
extranei alicuius potestati, vel fame vel extrema quacunque vrgente
necessitate, aut periculo, permittat, ne familicum *media deficientem
aspicere cogatur, canem verò in proprias dapes reseruet, Is minimè dicendus
est filium æquo aut inferiore loco habere quàm canem, siue id faciant,
Islandi, siue extranei quilibet.

Offenderant fortè Germanorum vel Danorum nautæ apud nos mendicos quosdam,
liberis onustos, quorum hîc maximus est numerus, qui iocando, vt sunt nugis
scurrilibus addicti, dixerint: Da mihi aut vende hoc vel illud: Cumque
rogarint extranei: Quid tu mihi vicissim? Responderint mendici. Habeo
liberos 10. vel 14. dabo ex eis vnum vel plures, &c. Solet enim ista
mendicorum colluuies istiusmodi scurriles dialogismos cum extraneis
instituere. Quod si tum quispiam bonus vir, misertus stoliditatis et inopiæ
mendicorum, vno illos filio leuauerit, eique propter Deum in alijs terris,
aliquo tandem modo benè prospexerit, num mendicus, qui alioqui cum filio,
fame et paupertate moriturus, filium miserenti permittit et committit,
filium istum suum minoris facit quàm canem? Præstitum est à multis tam
Islandis quàm extraneis huiusmodi beneuolentiæ et commiserationis opus: ex
quibus fuit vir nobilissimus Accilius Iulius à serenissimo rege Daniæ olim
missus ad Islandos, Anno Domini 1552. Qui vt audiui, 15. pueros pauperculos
assumpsit et secum in Daniam auexit: Vbi postea ipsius beneficio singulos
suo vitæ generi addictos, in viros bonos et frugi euasisse, mihi narratum
est.

Quid si quis in extrema constitutus angustia, filium non modò vendat; sed
si emptorem non habet, ipse mactet et comedat? Nota sunt huius rei exempla:
Parentum videlicet inuitiæ crudelitatis in filios, stimulante non odio vel
astorgia, sed ineuitabili necessitate compellente. Num quis inde vniuersale
gentis alicuius conuicium exstruxerit? Legimus, in obsidione Samariæ matres
duas filios suos mactasse, et coctos comedisse: 4. Reg. C. 6. Legimus in
obsidione Ierosolymitana, quam flebilis fuerit vox miserrimæ matris, filium
misellum iam mactaturæ. Infans, ait, (referam enim Eusebij verba de hac re,
etsi notissima, vt miseræ matris affectus appareat,) miselle et infelix,
cuinam in hoc belli. famis, et seditionis tumultu, te commodè reseruem? Si
Romanorum subijciamur imperio, illic seruitutis iugo pressi, vitam
infoeliciter exigemus. Sed seruitutum credo fames anteuertet. Accedit
factiosorum prædonum turba, his vtrisque miserijs toleratu multò asperior.
Age igitur mi gnate, sis matri cibus, sis prædonibus furia, sis communi
hominum vitæ fabula, quæ res vna ad Iudæorum calamitates deesse videtur.
Quæ cum dixisset, natum trucidat, assatumque dimidium mox comedit, dimidium
reseruat &c. Eusebius libro 3. capite 6. Iam quis est, qui non credat
misserrimam hanc matrem filium hunc suum, domini alicuius, si se
obtulisset, apud quem credidisset seruatum iri, aut emptoris possessioni
fuisse permissuram? Nota est fames, Calagurium, Hispaniæ vrbem, olim à
Cneio Pompeio obsessam opprimens (Val. libro septimo cap. 7.) cuius
ciuibus, vxores et liberi in vsum estremæ dapis conuersi sunt, quos
profectò; pro cibarijs et alijs dapibus haud inuiti vendidissent. Nota est
quoque fames, quæ Anno Domini 851. (Vincent. libro 25. cap. 36.) Germaniam
attriuit, vt etiam pater filium suum deuorare voluerit. Notum etiam est,
post mortem Henrici septimi Imperat fame per triennium continuata, quomodo
parentes liberos, vel liberi parentes deuorarint, et præcipuè quidem in
Polonia et Bohemia. Et ne exempla tantùm antiqua petamus, accepimus tantam
annonæ sæuitiam, Anno 1586. et 1587. in Hungaria grassatam fuisse, vt
quidam alimentorum inopia adacti immanissimo Christianorum hosti proprios
liberos vendiderint, et in perpetuum seruitutis iugum manciparint: quidam
paruulos suos, quos vlterius tolerare non sustinebant, crudeli misericordia
in Danubium proiecisse, et, suffocasse dicantur. Sed, num hæc et similia
exempla quempiam eò insaniæ adigent, vt dicat hanc vel illam nationem,
liberos in escam propriam mactare *consuettisse, Turcis libenter vendere,
aut aquis submergere et suffocare solitam esse? Non opinor. Sic neque, quòd
mendici apud Islandos, extrema vrgente necessitate, cuius durissimi sunt
morsus, filios suos libenter amittant, toti genti, et quidem probri loco,
communiter adscribendum est à quoquam, nisi apud eundem omnis pudor,
candor, humanitas, veritas exulent.

Cæterum optarim ego, parcius Islandis canum curam exprobrare illos populos,
quorum matronæ, et præcipuè nobiles, canes in maximis delicijs habent, vt
eos vel in plateis, ne dicam in sacris concionibus, sinum gestent, quem
morem in peregrinis quibusdam, quos Romæ catulos simiarum et canum in
gremio circumferre Cæsar conspexit, hac quæstione reprehendit, dum
quæreret: Numquid apud ipsos mulieres liberos non parerent? Monens errare
eos, qui à natura inditos sibi affectus, quibus in amorem hominum ac
præcipuè sobolis incitarentur, in bestias transferunt, quarum deliciarum
voluptas Islandorum gentem, nunquam cepit aut habuit. Quare iam Munstere et
Krantzi, alias nobis Christianitatis, (vt sic dicam) legis naturæ, legis
item Germanorum, et sanctæ simplicitatis notas qusente.

The same in English.

THE SEVENTH SECTION.

They make all one reckoning of their whelpes, and of their children: except
  that of the poorer sort you shall easier obtaine their sonne then their
  shalke.

Although in the beginning of this Treatise I thought that Munster and other
men of great name in those thi