are mysterious, but I leave all to you and wait for my reward.
When shall I have it, Edith?' She laughed, and answered so low I could
not hear, for they left the gallery as they spoke. Forgive me, General,
for the pain I inflict. You are the only person to whom I have spoken,
and you are the only person who can properly and promptly prevent this
affair from bringing open shame and scandal on an honorable house. To
you I leave it, and will do my part with this infatuated young man if
you will withdraw the temptation which will ruin him."

"I will. Thank you, Major. Trust to me, and by tomorrow I will prove
that I can act as becomes me."

The grief and misery in the general's face touched the major; he
silently wrung his hand and went away, thanking heaven more fervently
than ever that no cursed coquette of a woman had it in her power to
break his heart.

While this scene was going on above, another was taking place in the
library. Treherne sat there alone, thinking happy thoughts evidently,
for his eyes shone and his lips smiled as he mused, while watching the
splendors of a winter sunset. A soft rustle and the faint scent of
violets warned him of Mrs. Snowdon's approach, and a sudden foreboding
told him that danger was near. The instant he saw her face his fear
was confirmed, for exultation, resolve, and love met and mingled in
the expression it wore. Leaning in the window recess, where the red
light shone full on her lovely face and queenly figure, she said,
softly yet with a ruthless accent below the softness, "Dreaming
dreams, Maurice, which will never come to pass, unless I will it. I
know your secret, and I shall use it to prevent the fulfillment of the
foolish hope you cherish."

"Who told you?" he demanded, with an almost fierce flash of the eye and
an angry flush.

"I discovered it, as I warned you I should. My memory is good, I recall
the gossip of long ago, I observe the faces, words, and acts of those
whom I suspect, and unconscious hints from them give me the truth."

"I doubt it," and Treherne smiled securely.

She stooped and whispered one short sentence into his ear. Whatever it
was it caused him to start up with a pale, panic-stricken face, and eye
her as if she had pronounced his doom.

"Do you doubt it now?" she asked coldly.

"He told you! Even your skill and craft could not discover it alone,"
he muttered.

"Nay, I told you nothing was impossible to a determined woman. I needed
no help, for I knew more than you think."

He sank down again in a despairing attitude and hid his face, saying
mournfully, "I might have known you would hunt me down and dash my hopes
when they were surest. How will you use this unhappy secret?"

"I will tell Octavia, and make her duty less hard. It will be kind to
both of you, for even with her this memory would mar your happiness; and
it saves her from the shame and grief of discovering, when too late,
that she has given herself to a--"

"Stop!" he cried, in a tone that made her start and pale, as he rose out
of his chair white with a stern indignation which awed her for a moment.
"You shall not utter that word--you know but half the truth, and if you
wrong me or trouble the girl I will turn traitor also, and tell the
general the game you are playing with my cousin. You feign to love me as
you feigned before, but his title is the bait now as then, and you fancy
that by threatening to mar my hopes you will secure my silence, and gain
your end."

"Wrong, quite wrong. Jasper is nothing to me; I use _him_ as a tool, not
you. If I threaten, it is to keep you from Octavia, who cannot forgive
the past and love you for yourself, as I have done all these miserable
months. You say I know but half the truth. Tell me the whole and I will
spare you."

If ever a man was tempted to betray a trust it was Treherne then. A
word, and Octavia might be his; silence, and she might be lost; for this
woman was in earnest, and possessed the power to ruin his good name
forever. The truth leaped to his lips and would have passed them, had
not his eye fallen on the portrait of Jasper's father. This man had
loved and sheltered the orphan all his life, had made of him a son, and,
dying, urged him to guard and serve and save the rebellious youth he
left, when most needing a father's care.

"I promised, and I will keep my promise at all costs," sighed Treherne,
and with a gesture full of pathetic patience he waved the fair tempter
from him, saying steadily, "I will never tell you, though you rob me of
that which is dearer than my life. Go and work your will, but remember
that when you might have won the deepest gratitude of the man you
profess to love, you chose instead to earn his hatred and contempt."

Waiting for no word of hers, he took refuge in his room, and Edith
Snowdon sank down upon the couch, struggling with contending emotions of
love and jealousy, remorse and despair. How long she sat there she could
not tell; an approaching step recalled her to herself, and looking up
she saw Octavia. As the girl approached down the long vista of the
drawing rooms, her youth and beauty, innocence and candor touched that
fairer and more gifted woman with an envy she had never known before.
Something in the girl's face struck her instantly: a look of peace and
purity, a sweet serenity more winning than loveliness, more impressive
than dignity or grace. With a smile on her lips, yet a half-sad,
half-tender light in her eyes, and a cluster of pale winter roses in her
hand, she came on till she stood before her rival and, offering the
flowers, said, in words as simple as sincere, "Dear Mrs. Snowdon, I
cannot let the last sun of the old year set on any misdeeds of mine for
which I may atone. I have disliked, distrusted, and misjudged you, and
now I come to you in all humility to say forgive me."

With the girlish abandon of her impulsive nature Octavia knelt down
before the woman who was plotting to destroy her happiness, laid the
roses like a little peace offering on her lap, and with eloquently
pleading eyes waited for pardon. For a moment Mrs. Snowdon watched her,
fancying it a well-acted ruse to disarm a dangerous rival; but in that
sweet face there was no art; one glance showed her that. The words smote
her to the heart and won her in spite of pride or passion, as she
suddenly took the girl into her arms, weeping repentant tears. Neither
spoke, but in the silence each felt the barrier which had stood between
them vanishing, and each learned to know the other better in that moment
than in a year of common life. Octavia rejoiced that the instinct which
had prompted her to make this appeal had not misled her, but assured her
that behind the veil of coldness, pride, and levity which this woman
wore there was a heart aching for sympathy and help and love. Mrs.
Snowdon felt her worser self slip from her, leaving all that was true
and noble to make her worthy of the test applied. Art she could meet
with equal art, but nature conquered her. For spite of her misspent life
and faulty character, the germ of virtue, which lives in the worst, was
there, only waiting for the fostering sun and dew of love to strengthen
it, even though the harvest be a late one.

"Forgive you!" she cried, brokenly. "It is I who should ask forgiveness
of you--I who should atone, confess, and repent. Pardon _me_, pity me,
love me, for I am more wretched than you know."

"Dear, I do with heart and soul. Believe it, and let me be your friend"
was the soft answer.

"God knows I need one!" sighed the poor woman, still holding fast the
only creature who had wholly won her. "Child, I am not good, but not so
bad that I dare not look in your innocent face and call you friend. I
never had one of my own sex. I never knew my mother; and no one ever saw
in me the possibility of goodness, truth, and justice but you. Trust and
love and help me, Octavia, and I will reward you with a better life, if
I can do no more."

"I will, and the new year shall be happier than the old."

"God bless you for that prophecy; may I be worthy of it."

Then as a bell warned them away, the rivals kissed each other tenderly,
and parted friends. As Mrs. Snowdon entered her room, she saw her
husband sitting with his gray head in his hands, and heard him murmur
despairingly to himself, "My life makes her miserable. But for the sin
of it I'd die to free her."

"No, live for me, and teach me to be happy in your love." The clear
voice startled him, but not so much as the beautiful changed face of the
wife who laid the gray head on her bosom, saying tenderly, "My kind and
patient husband, you have been deceived. From me you shall know all the
truth, and when you have forgiven my faulty past, you shall see how
happy I will try to make your future."




Chapter VII


A GHOSTLY REVEL

"Bless me, how dull we are tonight!" exclaimed Rose, as the younger
portion of the party wandered listlessly about the drawing rooms that
evening, while my lady and the major played an absorbing game of piquet,
and the general dozed peacefully at last.

"It is because Maurice is not here; he always keeps us going, for he is
a fellow of infinite resources," replied Sir Jasper, suppressing a yawn.

"Have him out then," said Annon.

"He won't come. The poor lad is blue tonight, in spite of his
improvement. Something is amiss, and there is no getting a word
from him."

"Sad memories afflict him, perhaps," sighed Blanche.

"Don't be absurd, dear, sad memories are all nonsense; melancholy is
always indigestion, and nothing is so sure a cure as fun," said Rose
briskly. "I'm going to send in a polite invitation begging him to come
and amuse us. He'll accept, I haven't a doubt."

The message was sent, but to Rose's chagrin a polite refusal was
returned.

"He _shall_ come. Sir Jasper, do you and Mr. Annon go as a deputation
from us, and return without him at your peril" was her command.

They went, and while waiting their reappearance the sisters spoke of
what all had observed.

"How lovely Mrs. Snowdon looks tonight. I always thought she owed half
her charms to her skill in dress, but she never looked so beautiful as
in that plain black silk, with those roses in her hair," said Rose.

"What has she done to herself?" replied Blanche. "I see a change,
but can't account for it. She and Tavie have made some beautifying
discovery, for both look altogether uplifted and angelic all of a
sudden."

"Here come the gentlemen, and, as I'm a Talbot, they haven't got him!"
cried Rose as the deputation appeared, looking very crestfallen. "Don't
come near me," she added, irefully, "you are disloyal cowards, and I
doom you to exile till I want you. _I_ am infinite in resources as well
as this recreant man, and come he shall. Mrs. Snowdon, would you mind
asking Mr. Treherne to suggest something to wile away the rest of this
evening? We are in despair, and can think of nothing, and you are
all-powerful with him."

"I must decline, since he refuses you" was the decided answer, as Mrs.
Snowdon moved away.

"Tavie, dear, do go; we _must_ have him; he always obeys you, and you
would be such a public benefactor, you know."

Without a word Octavia wrote a line and sent it by a servant. Several
minutes passed, and the gentlemen began to lay wagers on the success of
her trial. "He will not come for me, you may be sure," said Octavia. As
the words passed her lips he appeared.

A general laugh greeted him, but, taking no notice of the jests at
his expense, he turned to Octavia, saying quietly, "What can I do for
you, Cousin?"

His colorless face and weary eyes reproached her for disturbing him, but
it was too late for regret, and she answered hastily, "We are in want of
some new and amusing occupation to wile away the evening. Can you
suggest something appropriate?"

"Why not sit round the hall fire and tell stories, while we wait to see
the old year out, as we used to do long ago?" he asked, after a
moment's thought.

"I told you so! There it is, just what we want." And Sir Jasper looked
triumphant.

"It's capital--let us begin at once. It is after ten now, so we shall
not have long to wait," cried Rose, and, taking Sir Jasper's arm, she
led the way to the hall.

A great fire always burned there, and in wintertime thick carpets
and curtains covered the stone floor and draped the tall windows.
Plants blossomed in the warm atmosphere, and chairs and lounges
stood about invitingly. The party was soon seated, and Treherne was
desired to begin.

"We must have ghost stories, and in order to be properly thrilling and
effective, the lights must be put out," said Rose, who sat next him, and
spoke first, as usual.

This was soon done, and only a ruddy circle of firelight was left to
oppose the rapt gloom that filled the hall, where shadows now seemed to
lurk in every corner.

"Don't be very dreadful, or I shall faint away," pleaded Blanche,
drawing nearer to Annon, for she had taken her sister's advice, and laid
close siege to that gentleman's heart.

"I think your nerves will bear my little tale," replied Treherne.
"When I was in India, four years ago, I had a very dear friend in my
regiment--a Scotchman; I'm half Scotch myself, you know, and clannish,
of course. Gordon was sent up the country on a scouting expedition,
and never returned. His men reported that he left them one evening to
take a survey, and his horse came home bloody and riderless. We
searched, but could not find a trace of him, and I was desperate to
discover and avenge his murder. About a month after his disappearance,
as I sat in my tent one fearfully hot day, suddenly the canvas door
flap was raised and there stood Gordon. I saw him as plainly as I see
you, Jasper, and should have sprung to meet him, but something held me
back. He was deathly pale, dripping with water, and in his bonny blue
eyes was a wild, woeful look that made my blood run cold. I stared
dumbly, for it was awful to see my friend so changed and so unearthly.
Stretching his arm to me he took my hand, saying solemnly, 'Come!' The
touch was like ice; an ominous thrill ran through me; I started up to
obey, and he was gone."

"A horrid dream, of course. Is that all?" asked Rose.

With his eyes on the fire and his left hand half extended, Treherne went
on as if he had not heard her.

"I thought it was a fancy, and soon recovered myself, for no one had
seen or heard anything of Gordon, and my native servant lay just outside
my tent. A strange sensation remained in the hand the phantom touched.
It was cold, damp, and white. I found it vain to try to forget this
apparition; it took strong hold of me; I told Yermid, my man, and he
bade me consider it a sign that I was to seek my friend. That night I
dreamed I was riding up the country in hot haste; what led me I know
not, but I pressed on and on, longing to reach the end. A half-dried
river crossed my path, and, riding down the steep bank to ford it, I saw
Gordon's body lying in the shallow water looking exactly as the vision
looked. I woke in a strange mood, told the story to my commanding
officer, and, as nothing was doing just then, easily got leave of
absence for a week. Taking Yermid, I set out on my sad quest. I thought
it folly, but I could not resist the impulse that drew me on. For seven
days I searched, and the strangest part of the story is that all that
time I went on exactly as in the dream, seeing what I saw then, and led
by the touch of a cold hand on mine. On the seventh day I reached the
river, and found my friend's body."

"How horrible! Is it really true?" cried Mrs. Snowdon.

"As true as I am a living man. Nor is that all: this left hand of mine
never has been warm since that time. See and feel for yourselves."

He opened both hands, and all satisfied themselves that the left was
smaller, paler, and colder than the right.

"Pray someone tell another story to put this out of my mind; it makes me
nervous," said Blanche.

"I'll tell one, and you may laugh to quiet your nerves. I want to have
mine done with, so that I can enjoy the rest with a free mind." With
these words Rose began her tale in the good old fashion.

"Once upon a time, when we were paying a visit to my blessed grandmamma,
I saw a ghost in this wise: The dear old lady was ill with a cold and
kept her room, leaving us to mope, for it was very dull in the great
lonely house. Blanche and I were both homesick, but didn't like to leave
till she was better, so we ransacked the library and solaced ourselves
with all manner of queer books. One day I found Grandmamma very low and
nervous, and evidently with something on her mind. She would say
nothing, but the next day was worse, and I insisted on knowing the
cause, for the trouble was evidently mental. Charging me to keep it from
Blanche, who was, and is, a sad coward, she told me that a spirit had
appeared to her two successive nights. 'If it comes a third time, I
shall prepare to die,' said the foolish old lady.

"'No, you won't, for I'll come and stay with you and lay your ghost,' I
said. With some difficulty I made her yield, and after Blanche was
asleep I slipped away to Grandmamma, with a book and candle for a long
watch, as the spirit didn't appear till after midnight. She usually
slept with her door unlocked, in case of fire or fright, and her maid
was close by. That night I locked the door, telling her that spirits
could come through the oak if they chose, and I preferred to have a fair
trial. Well, I read and chatted and dozed till dawn and nothing
appeared, so I laughed at the whole affair, and the old lady pretended
to be convinced that it was all a fancy.

"Next night I slept in my own room, and in the morning was told that not
only Grandmamma but Janet had seen the spirit. All in white, with
streaming hair, a pale face, and a red streak at the throat. It came and
parted the bed-curtains, looking in a moment, and then vanished. Janet
had slept with Grandmamma and kept a lamp burning on the chimney, so
both saw it.

"I was puzzled, but not frightened; I never am, and I insisted on trying
again. The door was left unlocked, as on the previous night, and I lay
with Grandmamma, a light burning as before. About two she clutched me as
I was dropping off. I looked, and there, peeping in between the dark
curtains, was a pale face with long hair all about it, and a red streak
at the throat. It was very dim, the light being low, but I saw it, and
after one breathless minute sprang up, caught my foot, fell down with a
crash, and by the time I was around the bed, not a vestige of the thing
appeared. I was angry, and vowed I'd succeed at all hazards, though I'll
confess I was just a bit daunted.

"Next time Janet and I sat up in easy chairs, with bright lights
burning, and both wide awake with the strongest coffee we could make. As
the hour drew near we got nervous, and when the white shape came gliding
in Janet hid her face. I didn't, and after one look was on the point of
laughing, for the spirit was Blanche walking in her sleep. She wore a
coral necklace in those days, and never took it off, and her long hair
half hid her face, which had the unnatural, uncanny look somnambulists
always wear. I had the sense to keep still and tell Janet what to do, so
the poor child went back unwaked, and Grandmamma's spirit never walked
again for I took care of that."

"Why did you haunt the old lady?" asked Annon, as the laughter ceased.

"I don't know, unless it was that I wanted to ask leave to go home, and
was afraid to do it awake, so tried when asleep. I shall not tell any
story, as I was the heroine of this, but will give my turn to you, Mr.
Annon," said Blanche, with a soft glance, which was quite thrown away,
for the gentleman's eyes were fixed on Octavia, who sat on a low ottoman
at Mrs. Snowdon's feet in the full glow of the firelight.

"I've had very small experience in ghosts, and can only recall a little
fright I once had when a boy at college. I'd been out to a party, got
home tired, couldn't find my matches, and retired in the dark. Toward
morning I woke, and glancing up to see if the dim light was dawn or
moonshine I was horrified to see a coffin standing at the bed's foot. I
rubbed my eyes to be sure I was awake, and looked with all my might.
There it was, a long black coffin, and I saw the white plate in the
dusk, for the moon was setting and my curtain was not drawn. 'It's some
trick of the fellows,' I thought; 'I'll not betray myself, but keep
cool.' Easy to say but hard to do, for it suddenly flashed into my mind
that I might be in the wrong room. I glanced about, but there were the
familiar objects as usual, as far as the indistinct light allowed me to
see, and I made sure by feeling on the wall at the bed's head for my
watchcase. It was there, and mine beyond a doubt, being peculiar in
shape and fabric. Had I been to a college wine party I could have
accounted for the vision, but a quiet evening in a grave professor's
well-conducted family could produce no ill effects. 'It's an optical
illusion, or a prank of my mates; I'll sleep and forget it,' I said, and
for a time endeavored to do so, but curiosity overcame my resolve, and
soon I peeped again. Judge of my horror when I saw the sharp white
outline of a dead face, which seemed to be peeping up from the coffin.
It gave me a terrible shock for I was but a lad and had been ill. I hid
my face and quaked like a nervous girl, still thinking it some joke and
too proud to betray fear lest I should be laughed at. How long I lay
there I don't know, but when I looked again the face was farther out and
the whole figure seemed rising slowly. The moon was nearly down, I had
no lamp, and to be left in the dark with that awesome thing was more
than I could bear. Joke or earnest, I must end the panic, and bolting
out of my room I roused my neighbor. He told me I was mad or drunk, but
lit a lamp and returned with me, to find my horror only a heap of
clothes thrown on the table in such a way that, as the moon's pale light
shot it, it struck upon my black student's gown, with a white card lying
on it, and produced the effect of a coffin and plate. The face was a
crumpled handkerchief, and what seemed hair a brown muffler. As the moon
sank, these outlines changed and, incredible as it may seem, grew like a
face. My friend not having had the fright enjoyed the joke, and
'Coffins' was my sobriquet for a long while."

"You get worse and worse. Sir Jasper, do vary the horrors by a touch of
fun, or I shall run away," said Blanche, glancing over her shoulder
nervously.

"I'll do my best, and tell a story my uncle used to relate of his young
days. I forget the name of the place, but it was some little country
town famous among anglers. My uncle often went to fish, and always
regretted that a deserted house near the trout stream was not occupied,
for the inn was inconveniently distant. Speaking of this one evening as
he lounged in the landlady's parlor, he asked why no one took it and let
the rooms to strangers in the fishing season. 'For fear of the
ghostissess, your honor,' replied the woman, and proceeded to tell, him
that three distinct spirits haunted the house. In the garret was heard
the hum of a wheel and the tap of high-heeled shoes, as the ghostly
spinner went to and fro. In a chamber sounded the sharpening of a knife,
followed by groans and the drip of blood. The cellar was made awful by a
skeleton sitting on a half-buried box and chuckling fiendishly. It seems
a miser lived there once, and was believed to have starved his daughter
in the garret, keeping her at work till she died. The second spirit was
that of the girl's rejected lover, who cut his throat in the chamber,
and the third of the miser who was found dead on the money chest he was
too feeble to conceal. My uncle laughed at all this, and offered to lay
the ghosts if anyone would take the house.

"This offer got abroad, and a crusty old fellow accepted it, hoping to
turn a penny. He had a pretty girl, whose love had been thwarted by the
old man, and whose lover was going to sea in despair. My uncle knew this
and pitied the young people. He had made acquaintance with a wandering
artist, and the two agreed to conquer the prejudices against the house
by taking rooms there. They did so, and after satisfying themselves
regarding the noises, consulted a wise old woman as to the best means of
laying the ghosts. She told them if any young girl would pass a night in
each haunted room, praying piously the while, that all would be well.
Peggy was asked if she would do it, and being a stouthearted lass she
consented, for a round sum, to try it. The first night was in the
garret, and Peggy, in spite of the prophecies of the village gossips,
came out alive, though listeners at the door heard the weird humming and
tapping all night long. The next night all went well, and from that time
no more sharpening, groaning, or dripping was heard. The third time she
bade her friends good-bye and, wrapped in her red cloak, with a lamp and
prayer book, went down into the cellar. Alas for pretty Peggy! When day
came she was gone, and with her the miser's empty box, though his bones
remained to prove how well she had done her work.

"The town was in an uproar, and the old man furious. Some said the devil
had flown away with her, others that the bones were hers, and all agreed
that henceforth another ghost would haunt the house. My uncle and the
artist did their best to comfort the father, who sorely reproached
himself for thwarting the girl's love, and declared that if Jack would
find her he should have her. But Jack had sailed, and the old man 'was
left lamenting.' The house was freed from its unearthly visitors,
however, for no ghost appeared; and when my uncle left, old Martin found
money and letter informing him that Peggy had spent her first two nights
preparing for flight, and on the third had gone away to marry and sail
with Jack. The noises had been produced by the artist, who was a
ventriloquist, the skeleton had been smuggled from the surgeons, and the
whole thing was a conspiracy to help Peggy and accommodate the
fishermen."

"It is evident that roguery is hereditary," laughed Rose as the
narrator paused.

"I strongly suspect that Sir Jasper the second was the true hero of that
story," added Mrs. Snowdon.

"Think what you like, I've done my part, and leave the stage for
you, madam."

"I will come last. It is your turn, dear." As Mrs. Snowdon softly
uttered the last word, and Octavia leaned upon her knee with an
affectionate glance, Treherne leaned forward to catch a glimpse of the
two changed faces, and looked as if bewildered when both smiled at him,
as they sat hand in hand while the girl told her story.

"Long ago a famous actress suddenly dropped dead at the close of a
splendidly played tragedy. She was carried home, and preparations were
made to bury her. The play had been gotten up with great care and
expense, and a fine actor was the hero. The public demanded a
repetition, and an inferior person was engaged to take the dead lady's
part. A day's delay had been necessary, but when the night came the
house was crowded. They waited both before and behind the curtain for
the debut of the new actress, with much curiosity. She stood waiting for
her cue, but as it was given, to the amazement of all, the great
tragedienne glided upon the stage. Pale as marble, and with a strange
fire in her eyes, strange pathos in her voice, strange power in her
acting, she went through her part, and at the close vanished as
mysteriously as she came. Great was the excitement that night, and
intense the astonishment and horror next day when it was whispered
abroad that the dead woman never had revived, but had lain in her coffin
before the eyes of watchers all the evening, when hundreds fancied they
were applauding her at the theater. The mystery never was cleared up,
and Paris was divided by two opinions: one that some person marvelously
like Madame Z. had personated her for the sake of a sensation; the other
that the ghost of the dead actress, unable to free itself from the old
duties so full of fascination to an ambitious and successful woman, had
played for the last time the part which had made her famous."

"Where did you find that, Tavie? It's very French, and not bad if you
invented it," said Sir Jasper.

"I read it in an old book, where it was much better told. Now, Edith,
there is just time for your tale."

As the word "Edith" passed her lips, again Treherne started and eyed
them both, and again they smiled, as Mrs. Snowdon caressed the
smooth cheek leaning on her knee, and looking full at him began the
last recital.

"You have been recounting the pranks of imaginary ghosts; let me show
you the workings of some real spirits, evil and good, that haunt every
heart and home, making its misery or joy. At Christmastime, in a country
house, a party of friends met to keep the holidays, and very happily
they might have done so had not one person marred the peace of several.
Love, jealousy, deceit, and nobleness were the spirits that played their
freaks with these people. The person of whom I speak was more haunted
than the rest, and much tormented, being willful, proud, and jealous.
Heaven help her, she had had no one to exorcise these ghosts for her,
and they goaded her to do much harm. Among these friends there were more
than one pair of lovers, and much tangling of plots and plans, for
hearts are wayward and mysterious things, and cannot love as duty bids
or prudence counsels. This woman held the key to all the secrets of the
house, and, having a purpose to gain, she used her power selfishly, for
a time. To satisfy a doubt, she feigned a fancy for a gentleman who once
did her the honor of admiring her, and, to the great scandal of certain
sage persons, permitted him to show his regard for her, knowing that it
was but a transient amusement on his part as well as upon hers. In the
hands of this woman lay a secret which could make or mar the happiness
of the best and dearest of the party. The evil spirits which haunted her
urged her to mar their peace and gratify a sinful hope. On the other
side, honor, justice, and generosity prompted her to make them happy,
and while she wavered there came to her a sweet enchantress who, with a
word, banished the tormenting ghosts forever, and gave the haunted woman
a talisman to keep her free henceforth."

There the earnest voice faltered, and with a sudden impulse Mrs. Snowdon
bent her head and kissed the fair forehead which had bent lower and
lower as she went on. Each listener understood the truth, lightly veiled
in that hasty fable, and each found in it a different meaning. Sir
Jasper frowned and bit his lips, Annon glanced anxiously from face to
face, Octavia hid hers, and Treherne's flashed with sudden intelligence,
while Rose laughed low to herself, enjoying the scene. Blanche, who was
getting sleepy, said, with a stifled gape, "That is a very nice, moral
little story, but I wish there had been some real ghosts in it."

"There was. Will you come and see them?"

As she put the question, Mrs. Snowdon rose abruptly, wishing to end the
séance, and beckoning them to follow glided up the great stairway. All
obeyed, wondering what whim possessed her, and quite ready for any jest
in store for them.




Chapter VIII


JASPER

She led them to the north gallery and, pausing at the door, said
merrily, "The ghost--or ghosts rather, for there were two--which
frightened Patty were Sir Jasper and myself, meeting to discuss certain
important matters which concerned Mr. Treherne. If you want to see
spirits we will play phantom for you, and convince you of our power."

"Good, let us go and have a ghostly dance, as a proper finale of our
revel," answered Rose as they flocked into the long hall.

At that moment the great clock struck twelve, and all paused to bid the
old year adieu. Sir Jasper was the first to speak, for, angry with Mrs.
Snowdon, yet thankful to her for making a jest to others of what had
been earnest to him, he desired to hide his chagrin under a gay manner;
and taking Rose around the waist was about to waltz away as she
proposed, saying cheerily, "'Come one and all, and dance the new year
in,'" when a cry from Octavia arrested him, and turning he saw her
stand, pale and trembling, pointing to the far end of the hall.

Eight narrow Gothic windows pierced either wall of the north
gallery. A full moon sent her silvery light strongly in upon the
eastern side, making broad bars of brightness across the floor. No
fires burned there now, and wherever the moonlight did not fall deep
shadows lay. As Octavia cried out, all looked, and all distinctly
saw a tall, dark figure moving noiselessly across the second bar of
light far down the hall.

"Is it some jest of yours?" asked Sir Jasper of Mrs. Snowdon, as the
form vanished in the shadow.

"No, upon my honor, I know nothing of it! I only meant to relieve
Octavia's superstitious fears by showing her our pranks" was the
whispered reply as Mrs. Snowdon's cheek paled, and she drew nearer
to Jasper.

"Who is there?" called Treherne in a commanding tone.

No answer, but a faint, cold breath of air seemed to sigh along the
arched roof and die away as the dark figure crossed the third streak
of moonlight. A strange awe fell upon them all, and no one spoke, but
stood watching for the appearance of the shape. Nearer and nearer it
came, with soundless steps, and as it reached the sixth window its
outlines were distinctly visible. A tall, wasted figure, all in black,
with a rosary hanging from the girdle, and a dark beard half
concealing the face.

"The Abbot's ghost, and very well got up," said Annon, trying to laugh
but failing decidedly, for again the cold breath swept over them,
causing a general shudder.

"Hush!" whispered Treherne, drawing Octavia to his side with a
protecting gesture.

Once more the phantom appeared and disappeared, and as they waited for
it to cross the last bar of light that lay between it and them, Mrs.
Snowdon stepped forward to the edge of the shadow in which they stood,
as if to confront the apparition alone. Out of the darkness it came, and
in the full radiance of the light it paused. Mrs. Snowdon, being
nearest, saw the face first, and uttering a faint cry dropped down upon
the stone floor, covering up her eyes. Nothing human ever wore a look
like that of the ghastly, hollow-eyed, pale-lipped countenance below the
hood. All saw it and held their breath as it slowly raised a shadowy arm
and pointed a shriveled finger at Sir Jasper.

"Speak, whatever you are, or I'll quickly prove whether you are man or
spirit!" cried Jasper fiercely, stepping forward as if to grasp the
extended arm that seemed to menace him alone.

An icy gust swept through the hall, and the phantom slowly receded into
the shadow. Jasper sprang after it, but nothing crossed the second
stream of light, and nothing remained in the shade. Like one possessed
by a sudden fancy he rushed down the gallery to find all fast and empty,
and to return looking very strangely. Blanche had fainted away and Annon
was bearing her out of the hall. Rose was clinging to Mrs. Snowdon, and
Octavia leaned against her cousin, saying in a fervent whisper, "Thank
God it did not point at you!"

"Am I then dearer than your brother?" he whispered back.

There was no audible reply, but one little hand involuntarily pressed
his, though the other was outstretched toward Jasper, who came up white
and startled but firm and quiet. Affecting to make light of it, he said,
forcing a smile as he raised Mrs. Snowdon, "It is some stupid joke of
the servants. Let us think no more of it. Come, Edith, this is not like
your usual self."

"It was nothing human, Jasper; you know it as well as I. Oh, why did I
bring you here to meet the warning phantom that haunts your house!"

"Nay, if my time is near the spirit would have found me out wherever
I might be. I have no faith in that absurd superstition--I laugh at
and defy it. Come down and drink my health in wine from the Abbot's
own cellar."

But no one had heart for further gaiety, and, finding Lady Treherne
already alarmed by Annon, they were forced to tell her all, and find
their own bewilderment deepened by her unalterable belief in the
evil omen.

At her command the house was searched, the servants cross-questioned,
and every effort made to discover the identity of the apparition. All in
vain; the house was as usual, and not a man or maid but turned pale at
the idea of entering the gallery at midnight. At my lady's request, all
promised to say no more upon the mystery, and separated at last to such
sleep as they could enjoy.

Very grave were the faces gathered about the breakfast table next
morning, and very anxious the glances cast on Sir Jasper as he came in,
late as usual, looking uncommonly blithe and well. Nothing serious ever
made a deep impression on his mercurial nature. Treherne had more the
air of a doomed man, being very pale and worn, in spite of an occasional
gleam of happiness as he looked at Octavia. He haunted Jasper like a
shadow all the morning, much to that young gentleman's annoyance, for
both his mother and sister hung about him with faces of ill-dissembled
anxiety. By afternoon his patience gave out, and he openly rebelled
against the tender guard kept over him. Ringing for his horse he said
decidedly, "I'm bored to death with the solemnity which pervades the
house today, so I'm off for a brisk gallop, before I lose my temper and
spirits altogether."

"Come with me in the pony carriage, Jasper. I've not had a drive with
you for a long while, and should enjoy it so much," said my lady,
detaining him.

"Mrs. Snowdon looks as if she needed air to revive her roses, and the
pony carriage is just the thing for her, so I will cheerfully resign my
seat to her," he answered laughing, as he forced himself from his
mother's hand.

"Take the girls in the clarence. We all want a breath of air, and you
are the best whip we know. Be gallant and say yes, dear."

"No, thank you, Tavie, that won't do. Rose and Blanche are both asleep,
and you are dying to go and do likewise, after your vigils last night.
As a man and a brother I beg you'll do so, and let me ride as I like."

"Suppose you ask Annon to join you--" began Treherne with well-assumed
indifference; but Sir Jasper frowned and turned sharply on him, saying,
half-petulantly, half-jocosely:

"Upon my life I should think I was a boy or a baby, by the manner in
which you mount guard over me today. If you think I'm going to live in
daily fear of some mishap, you are all much mistaken. Ghost or no ghost,
I shall make merry while I can; a short life and a jolly one has always
been my motto, you know, so fare you well till dinnertime."

They watched him gallop down the avenue, and then went their different
ways, still burdened with a nameless foreboding. Octavia strolled into
the conservatory, thinking to refresh herself with the balmy silence
which pervaded the place, but Annon soon joined her, full of a lover's
hopes and fears.

"Miss Treherne, I have ventured to come for my answer. Is my New Year to
be a blissful or a sad one?" he asked eagerly.

"Forgive me if I give you an unwelcome reply, but I must be true, and so
regretfully refuse the honor you do me," she said sorrowfully.

"May I ask why?"

"Because I do not love you."

"And you do love your cousin," he cried angrily, pausing to watch her
half-averted face.

She turned it fully toward him and answered, with her native sincerity,
"Yes, I do, with all my heart, and now my mother will not thwart me, for
Maurice has saved my life, and I am free to devote it all to him."

"Happy man, I wish I had been a cripple!" sighed Annon. Then with a
manful effort to be just and generous, he added heartily, "Say no more,
he deserves you; I want no sacrifice to duty; I yield, and go away,
praying heaven to bless you now and always."

He kissed her hand and left her to seek my lady and make his adieus, for
no persuasion could keep him. Leaving a note for Sir Jasper, he hurried
away, to the great relief of Treherne and the deep regret of Blanche,
who, however, lived in hopes of another trial later in the season.

"Here comes Jasper, Mamma, safe and well," cried Octavia an hour or two
later, as she joined her mother on the terrace, where my lady had been
pacing restlessly to and fro nearly ever since her son rode away.

With a smile of intense relief she waved her handkerchief as he came
clattering up the drive, and seeing her he answered with hat and hand.
He usually dismounted at the great hall door, but a sudden whim made him
ride along the wall that lay below the terrace, for he was a fine
horseman, and Mrs. Snowdon was looking from her window. As he
approached, the peacocks fled screaming, and one flew up just before the
horse's eyes as his master was in the act of dismounting. The spirited
creature was startled, sprang partway up the low, broad steps of the
terrace, and, being sharply checked, slipped, fell, and man and horse
rolled down together.

Never did those who heard it forget the cry that left Lady Treherne's
lips as she saw the fall. It brought out both guests and servants, to
find Octavia recklessly struggling with the frightened horse, and my
lady down upon the stones with her son's bleeding head in her arms.

They bore in the senseless, shattered body, and for hours tried
everything that skill and sciences could devise to save the young man's
life. But every effort was in vain, and as the sun set Sir Jasper lay
dying. Conscious at last, and able to speak, he looked about him with a
troubled glance, and seemed struggling with some desire that
overmastered pain and held death at bay.

"I want Maurice," he feebly said, at length.

"Dear lad, I'm here," answered his cousin's voice from a seat in the
shadow of the half-drawn curtains.

"Always near when I need you. Many a scrape have you helped me out of,
but this is beyond your power," and a faint smile passed over Jasper's
lips as the past flitted before his mind. But the smile died, and a
groan of pain escaped him as he cried suddenly, "Quick! Let me tell it
before it is too late! Maurice never will, but bear the shame all his
life that my dead name may be untarnished. Bring Edith; she must hear
the truth."

She was soon there, and, lying in his mother's arms, one hand in his
cousin's, and one on his sister's bent head, Jasper rapidly told the
secret which had burdened him for a year.

"I did it; I forged my uncle's name when I had lost so heavily at play
that I dared not tell my mother, or squander more of my own fortune. I
deceived Maurice, and let him think the check a genuine one; I made him
present it and get the money, and when all went well I fancied I was
safe. But my uncle discovered it secretly, said nothing, and, believing
Maurice the forger, disinherited him. I never knew this till the old man
died, and then it was too late. I confessed to Maurice, and he forgave
me. He said, 'I am helpless now, shut out from the world, with nothing
to lose or gain, and soon to be forgotten by those who once knew me, so
let the suspicion of shame, if any such there be, still cling to me, and
do you go your way, rich, happy, honorable, and untouched by any shadow
on your fame.' Mother, I let him do it, unconscious as he was that many
knew the secret sin and fancied him the doer of it."

"Hush, Jasper, let it pass. I can bear it; I promised your dear father
to be your staunch friend through life, and I have only kept my word."

"God knows you have, but now my life ends, and I cannot die till you are
cleared. Edith, I told you half the truth, and you would have used it
against him had not some angel sent this girl to touch your heart. You
have done your part to atone for the past, now let me do mine. Mother,
Tavie loves him, he has risked life and honor for me. Repay him
generously and give him this."

With feeble touch Sir Jasper tried to lay his sister's hand in
Treherne's as he spoke; Mrs. Snowdon helped him, and as my lady bowed
her head in silent acquiescence, a joyful smile shone on the dying
man's face.

"One more confession, and then I am ready," he said, looking up into the
face of the woman whom he had loved with all the power of a shallow
nature. "It was a jest to you, Edith, but it was bitter earnest to me,
for I loved you, sinful as it was. Ask your husband to forgive me, and
tell him it was better I should die than live to mar a good man's peace.
Kiss me once, and make him happy for my sake."

She touched his cold lips with remorseful tenderness, and in the same
breath registered a vow to obey that dying prayer.

"Tavie dear, Maurice, my brother, God bless you both. Good-bye, Mother.
He will be a better son than I have been to you." Then, the reckless
spirit of the man surviving to the last, Sir Jasper laughed faintly, as
he seemed to beckon some invisible shape, and died saying gaily, "Now,
Father Abbot, lead on, I'll follow you."

       *       *       *       *       *

A year later three weddings were celebrated on the same day and in the
same church. Maurice Treherne, a well man, led up his cousin. Frank
Annon rewarded Blanche's patient siege by an unconditional surrender,
and, to the infinite amusement of Mrs. Grundy, Major Royston publicly
confessed himself outgeneraled by merry Rose. The triple wedding feast
was celebrated at Treherne Abbey, and no uncanny visitor marred its
festivities, for never again was the north gallery haunted by the
ghostly Abbot.








Produced by Juliet Sutherland, Sheila Vogtmann and PG Distributed Proofreaders




[Transcriber's notes: _ before and after a word or phrase indicate
italics, + indicate bolded text]

THE WRITINGS IN PROSE AND VERSE OF EUGENE FIELD


A LITTLE BOOK OF PROFITABLE TALES

NEW YORK 1901

By EUGENE FIELD.



TO MY SEVEREST CRITIC, MY MOST LOYAL ADMIRER, AND MY ONLY DAUGHTER, MARY
FRENCH FIELD, THIS LITTLE BOOK OF PROFITABLE TALES IS AFFECTIONATELY
DEDICATED. E.F.




INTRODUCTION


I have never read a poem by Mr. Field without feeling personally drawn to
the author. Long after I had known him as a poet, I found that he had
written in prose little scraps or long essays, which had attracted me in
just the same way, when I had met with them in the newspapers, although I
had not known who the author was.

All that he writes indeed is quite free from the conventionalisms to which
authorship as a profession is sadly liable. Because he is free from them,
you read his poems or you read his prose, and are affected as if you met
him. If you were riding in a Pullman car with him, or if you were talking
with him at breakfast over your coffee, he would say just such things in
just this way. If he had any art, it was the art of concealing art. But I
do not think that he thought much of art. I do not think that he cared
much for what people say about criticism or style. He wrote as he felt, or
as he thought, without troubling himself much about method. It is this
simplicity, or what it is the fashion of the day to call frankness, which
gives a singular charm to his writing.

EDWARD E. HALE.

The Tales in this Little Book


THE FIRST CHRISTMAS TREE

THE SYMBOL AND THE SAINT

THE COMING OF THE PRINCE

THE MOUSE AND THE MOONBEAM

THE DIVELL'S CHRYSTMASS

THE MOUNTAIN AND THE SEA

THE ROBIN AND THE VIOLET

THE OAK-TREE AND THE IVY

MARGARET: A PEARL

THE SPRINGTIME

RODOLPH AND HIS KING

THE HAMPSHIRE HILLS

EZRA'S THANKSGIVIN' OUT WEST

LUDWIG AND ELOISE

FIDO'S LITTLE FRIEND

THE OLD MAN

BILL, THE LOKIL EDITOR

THE LITTLE YALLER BABY

THE CYCLOPEEDY

DOCK STEBBINS

THE FAIRIES OF PESTH




+THE FIRST CHRISTMAS TREE+




THE FIRST CHRISTMAS TREE


Once upon a time the forest was in a great commotion. Early in the evening
the wise old cedars had shaken their heads ominously and predicted strange
things. They had lived in the forest many, many years; but never had they
seen such marvellous sights as were to be seen now in the sky, and upon
the hills, and in the distant village.

"Pray tell us what you see," pleaded a little vine; "we who are not as
tall as you can behold none of these wonderful things. Describe them to
us, that we may enjoy them with you."

"I am filled with such amazement," said one of the cedars, "that I can
hardly speak. The whole sky seems to be aflame, and the stars appear to be
dancing among the clouds; angels walk down from heaven to the earth, and
enter the village or talk with the shepherds upon the hills."

The vine listened in mute astonishment. Such things never before had
happened. The vine trembled with excitement. Its nearest neighbor was a
tiny tree, so small it scarcely ever was noticed; yet it was a very
beautiful little tree, and the vines and ferns and mosses and other humble
residents of the forest loved it dearly.

"How I should like to see the angels!" sighed the little tree, "and how I
should like to see the stars dancing among the clouds! It must be very
beautiful."

As the vine and the little tree talked of these things, the cedars watched
with increasing interest the wonderful scenes over and beyond the confines
of the forest. Presently they thought they heard music, and they were not
mistaken, for soon the whole air was full of the sweetest harmonies ever
heard upon earth.

"What beautiful music!" cried the little tree. "I wonder whence it comes."

"The angels are singing," said a cedar; "for none but angels could make
such sweet music."

"But the stars are singing, too," said another cedar; "yes, and the
shepherds on the hills join in the song, and what a strangely glorious
song it is!"

The trees listened to the singing, but they did not understand its
meaning: it seemed to be an anthem, and it was of a Child that had been
born; but further than this they did not understand. The strange and
glorious song continued all the night; and all that night the angels
walked to and fro, and the shepherd-folk talked with the angels, and the
stars danced and carolled in high heaven. And it was nearly morning when
the cedars cried out, "They are coming to the forest! the angels are
coming to the forest!" And, surely enough, this was true. The vine and the
little tree were very terrified, and they begged their older and stronger
neighbors to protect them from harm. But the cedars were too busy with
their own fears to pay any heed to the faint pleadings of the humble vine
and the little tree. The angels came into the forest, singing the same
glorious anthem about the Child, and the stars sang in chorus with them,
until every part of the woods rang with echoes of that wondrous song.
There was nothing in the appearance of this angel host to inspire fear;
they were clad all in white, and there were crowns upon their fair heads,
and golden harps in their hands; love, hope, charity, compassion, and joy
beamed from their beautiful faces, and their presence seemed to fill the
forest with a divine peace. The angels came through the forest to where
the little tree stood, and gathering around it, they touched it with their
hands, and kissed its little branches, and sang even more sweetly than
before. And their song was about the Child, the Child, the Child that had
been born. Then the stars came down from the skies and danced and hung
upon the branches of the tree, and they, too, sang that song,--the song of
the Child. And all the other trees and the vines and the ferns and the
mosses beheld in wonder; nor could they understand why all these things
were being done, and why this exceeding honor should be shown the little
tree.

When the morning came the angels left the forest,--all but one angel, who
remained behind and lingered near the little tree. Then a cedar asked:
"Why do you tarry with us, holy angel?" And the angel answered: "I stay to
guard this little tree, for it is sacred, and no harm shall come to it."

The little tree felt quite relieved by this assurance, and it held up its
head more confidently than ever before. And how it thrived and grew, and
waxed in strength and beauty! The cedars said they never had seen the
like. The sun seemed to lavish its choicest rays upon the little tree,
heaven dropped its sweetest dew upon it, and the winds never came to the
forest that they did not forget their rude manners and linger to kiss the
little tree and sing it their prettiest songs. No danger ever menaced it,
no harm threatened; for the angel never slept,--through the day and
through the night the angel watched the little tree and protected it from
all evil. Oftentimes the trees talked with the angel; but of course they
understood little of what he said, for he spoke always of the Child who
was to become the Master; and always when thus he talked, he caressed the
little tree, and stroked its branches and leaves, and moistened them with
his tears. It all was so very strange that none in the forest could
understand.

So the years passed, the angel watching his blooming charge. Sometimes the
beasts strayed toward the little tree and threatened to devour its tender
foliage; sometimes the woodman came with his axe, intent upon hewing down
the straight and comely thing; sometimes the hot, consuming breath of
drought swept from the south, and sought to blight the forest and all its
verdure: the angel kept them from the little tree. Serene and beautiful it
grew, until now it was no longer a little tree, but the pride and glory of
the forest.

One day the tree heard some one coming through the forest. Hitherto the
angel had hastened to its side when men approached; but now the angel
strode away and stood under the cedars yonder.

"Dear angel," cried the tree, "can you not hear the footsteps of some one
approaching? Why do you leave me?"

"Have no fear," said the angel; "for He who comes is the Master."

The Master came to the tree and beheld it. He placed His hands upon its
smooth trunk and branches, and the tree was thrilled with a strange and
glorious delight. Then He stooped and kissed the tree, and then He turned
and went away.

Many times after that the Master came to the forest, and when He came it
always was to where the tree stood. Many times He rested beneath the tree
and enjoyed the shade of its foliage, and listened to the music of the
wind as it swept through the rustling leaves. Many times He slept there,
and the tree watched over Him, and the forest was still, and all its
voices were hushed. And the angel hovered near like a faithful sentinel.

Ever and anon men came with the Master to the forest, and sat with Him in
the shade of the tree, and talked with Him of matters which the tree never
could understand; only it heard that the talk was of love and charity and
gentleness, and it saw that the Master was beloved and venerated by the
others. It heard them tell of the Master's goodness and humility,--how He
had healed the sick and raised the dead and bestowed inestimable blessings
wherever He walked. And the tree loved the Master for His beauty and His
goodness; and when He came to the forest it was full of joy, but when He
came not it was sad. And the other trees of the forest joined in its
happiness and its sorrow, for they, too, loved the Master. And the angel
always hovered near.

The Master came one night alone into the forest, and His face was pale
with anguish and wet with tears, and He fell upon His knees and prayed.
The tree heard Him, and all the forest was still, as if it were standing
in the presence of death. And when the morning came, lo! the angel had
gone.

Then there was a great confusion in the forest. There was a sound of rude
voices, and a clashing of swords and staves. Strange men appeared,
uttering loud oaths and cruel threats, and the tree was filled with
terror. It called aloud for the angel, but the angel came not.

"Alas," cried the vine, "they have come to destroy the tree, the pride and
glory of the forest!"

The forest was sorely agitated, but it was in vain. The strange men plied
their axes with cruel vigor, and the tree was hewn to the ground. Its
beautiful branches were cut away and cast aside, and its soft, thick
foliage was strewn to the tenderer mercies of the winds.

"They are killing me!" cried the tree; "why is not the angel here to
protect me?"

But no one heard the piteous cry,--none but the other trees of the forest;
and they wept, and the little vine wept too.

Then the cruel men dragged the despoiled and hewn tree from the forest,
and the forest saw that beauteous thing no more.

But the night wind that swept down from the City of the Great King that
night to ruffle the bosom of distant Galilee, tarried in the forest awhile
to say that it had seen that day a cross upraised on Calvary,--the tree on
which was stretched the body of the dying Master.

1884.




+THE SYMBOL AND THE SAINT+




THE SYMBOL AND THE SAINT


Once upon a time a young man made ready for a voyage. His name was Norss;
broad were his shoulders, his cheeks were ruddy, his hair was fair and
long, his body betokened strength, and good-nature shone from his blue
eyes and lurked about the corners of his mouth.

"Where are you going?" asked his neighbor Jans, the forge-master.

"I am going sailing for a wife," said Norss.

"For a wife, indeed!" cried Jans. "And why go you to seek her in foreign
lands? Are not our maidens good enough and fair enough, that you must need
search for a wife elsewhere? For shame, Norss! for shame!"

But Norss said, "A spirit came to me in my dreams last night and said,
'Launch the boat and set sail to-morrow. Have no fear; for I will guide
you to the bride that awaits you.' Then, standing there, all white and
beautiful, the spirit held forth a symbol--such as I had never before
seen--in the figure of a cross, and the spirit said: 'By this symbol shall
she be known to you.'"

"If this be so, you must need go," said Jans. "But are you well
victualled? Come to my cabin, and let me give you venison and bear's
meat."

Norss shook his head. "The spirit will provide," said he. "I have no fear,
and I shall take no care, trusting in the spirit."

So Norss pushed his boat down the beach into the sea, and leaped into the
boat, and unfurled the sail to the wind. Jan stood wondering on the beach,
and watched the boat speed out of sight.

On, on, many days on sailed Norss,--so many leagues that he thought he
must have compassed the earth. In all this time he knew no hunger nor
thirst; it was as the spirit had told him in his dream,--no cares nor
dangers beset him. By day the dolphins and the other creatures of the sea
gambolled about his boat; by night a beauteous Star seemed to direct his
course; and when he slept and dreamed, he saw ever the spirit clad in
white, and holding forth to him the symbol in the similitude of a cross.

At last he came to a strange country,--a country so very different from
his own that he could scarcely trust his senses. Instead of the rugged
mountains of the North, he saw a gentle landscape of velvety green; the
trees were not pines and firs, but cypresses, cedars, and palms; instead
of the cold, crisp air of his native land, he scented the perfumed zephyrs
of the Orient; and the wind that filled the sail of his boat and smote his
tanned cheeks was heavy and hot with the odor of cinnamon and spices. The
waters were calm and blue,--very different from the white and angry waves
of Norss's native fiord.

As if guided by an unseen hand, the boat pointed straight for the beach of
this strangely beautiful land; and ere its prow cleaved the shallower
waters, Norss saw a maiden standing on the shore, shading her eyes with
her right hand, and gazing intently at him. She was the most beautiful
maiden he had ever looked upon. As Norss was fair, so was this maiden
dark; her black hair fell loosely about her shoulders in charming contrast
with the white raiment in which her slender, graceful form was clad.
Around her neck she wore a golden chain, and therefrom was suspended a
small symbol, which Norss did not immediately recognize.

"Hast thou come sailing out of the North into the East?" asked the maiden.

"Yes," said Norss.

"And thou art Norss?" she asked.

"I am Norss; and I come seeking my bride," he answered.

"I am she," said the maiden. "My name is Faia. An angel came to me in my
dreams last night, and the angel said: 'Stand upon the beach to-day, and
Norss shall come out of the North to bear thee home a bride.' So, coming
here, I found thee sailing to our shore."

Remembering then the spirit's words, Norss said: "What symbol have you,
Faia, that I may know how truly you have spoken?"

"No symbol have I but this," said Faia, holding out the symbol that was
attached to the golden chain about her neck. Norss looked upon it, and lo!
it was the symbol of his dreams,--a tiny wooden cross.

Then Norss clasped Faia in his arms and kissed her, and entering into the
boat they sailed away into the North. In all their voyage neither care nor
danger beset them; for as it had been told to them in their dreams, so it
came to pass. By day the dolphins and the other creatures of the sea
gambolled about them; by night the winds and the waves sang them to sleep;
and, strangely enough, the Star which before had led Norss into the East,
now shone bright and beautiful in the Northern sky!

When Norss and his bride reached their home, Jans, the forge-master, and
the other neighbors made great joy, and all said that Faia was more
beautiful than any other maiden in the land. So merry was Jans that he
built a huge fire in his forge, and the flames thereof filled the whole
Northern sky with rays of light that danced up, up, up to the Star,
singing glad songs the while. So Norss and Faia were wed, and they went to
live in the cabin in the fir-grove.

To these two was born in good time a son, whom they named Claus. On the
night that he was born wondrous things came to pass. To the cabin in the
fir-grove came all the quaint, weird spirits,--the fairies, the elves, the
trolls, the pixies, the fadas, the crions, the goblins, the kobolds, the
moss-people, the gnomes, the dwarfs, the water-sprites, the courils, the
bogles, the brownies, the nixies, the trows, the stille-volk,--all came to
the cabin in the fir-grove, and capered about and sang the strange,
beautiful songs of the Mist-Land. And the flames of old Jans's forge
leaped up higher than ever into the Northern sky, carrying the joyous
tidings to the Star, and full of music was that happy night.

Even in infancy Claus did marvellous things. With his baby hands he
wrought into pretty figures the willows that were given him to play with.
As he grew older, he fashioned, with the knife old Jans had made for him,
many curious toys,--carts, horses, dogs, lambs, houses, trees, cats, and
birds, all of wood and very like to nature. His mother taught him how to
make dolls too,--dolls of every kind, condition, temper, and color; proud
dolls, homely dolls, boy dolls, lady dolls, wax dolls, rubber dolls, paper
dolls, worsted dolls, rag dolls,--dolls of every description and without
end. So Claus became at once quite as popular with the little girls as
with the little boys of his native village; for he was so generous that he
gave away all these pretty things as fast as he made them.

Claus seemed to know by instinct every language. As he grew older he would
ramble off into the woods and talk with the trees, the rocks, and the
beasts of the greenwood; or he would sit on the cliffs overlooking the
fiord, and listen to the stories that the waves of the sea loved to tell
him; then, too, he knew the haunts of the elves and the stille-volk, and
many a pretty tale he learned from these little people. When night came,
old Jans told him the quaint legends of the North, and his mother sang to
him the lullabies she had heard when a little child herself in the
far-distant East. And every night his mother held out to him the symbol in
the similitude of the cross, and bade him kiss it ere he went to sleep.

So Claus grew to manhood, increasing each day in knowledge and in wisdom.
His works increased too; and his liberality dispensed everywhere the
beauteous things which his fancy conceived and his skill executed. Jans,
being now a very old man, and having no son of his own, gave to Claus his
forge and workshop, and taught him those secret arts which he in youth had
learned from cunning masters. Right joyous now was Claus; and many, many
times the Northern sky glowed with the flames that danced singing from the
forge while Claus moulded his pretty toys. Every color of the rainbow were
these flames; for they reflected the bright colors of the beauteous things
strewn round that wonderful workshop. Just as of old he had dispensed to
all children alike the homelier toys of his youth, so now he gave to all
children alike these more beautiful and more curious gifts. So little
children everywhere loved Claus, because he gave them pretty toys, and
their parents loved him because he made their little ones so happy.

But now Norss and Faia were come to old age. After long years of love and
happiness, they knew that death could not be far distant. And one day Faia
said to Norss: "Neither you nor I, dear love, fear death; but if we could
choose, would we not choose to live always in this our son Claus, who has
been so sweet a joy to us?"

"Ay, ay," said Norss; "but how is that possible?"

"We shall see," said Faia.

That night Norss dreamed that a spirit came to him, and that the spirit
said to him: "Norss, thou shalt surely live forever in thy son Claus, if
thou wilt but acknowledge the symbol."

Then when the morning was come Norss told his dream to Faia, his wife; and
Faia said,--

"The same dream had I,--an angel appearing to me and speaking these very
words."

"But what of the symbol?" cried Norss.

"I have it here, about my neck," said Faia.

So saying, Faia drew from her bosom the symbol of wood,--a tiny cross
suspended about her neck by the golden chain. And as she stood there
holding the symbol out to Norss, he--he thought of the time when first he
saw her on the far-distant Orient shore, standing beneath the Star in all
her maidenly glory, shading her beauteous eyes with one hand, and with the
other clasping the cross,--the holy talisman of her faith.

"Faia, Faia!" cried Norss, "it is the same,--the same you wore when I
fetched you a bride from the East!"

"It is the same." said Faia, "yet see how my kisses and my prayers have
worn it away; for many, many times in these years, dear Norss, have I
pressed it to my lips and breathed your name upon it. See now--see what a
beauteous light its shadow makes upon your aged face!"

The sunbeams, indeed, streaming through the window at that moment, cast
the shadow of the symbol on old Norss's brow. Norss felt a glorious warmth
suffuse him, his heart leaped with joy, and he stretched out his arms and
fell about Faia's neck, and kissed the symbol and acknowledged it. Then
likewise did Faia; and suddenly the place was filled with a wondrous
brightness and with strange music, and never thereafter were Norss and
Faia beholden of men.

Until late that night Claus toiled at his forge; for it was a busy season
with him, and he had many, many curious and beauteous things to make for
the little children in the country round about. The colored flames leaped
singing from his forge, so that the Northern sky seemed to be lighted by a
thousand rainbows; but above all this voiceful glory beamed the Star,
bright, beautiful, serene.

Coming late to the cabin in the fir-grove, Claus wondered that no sign of
his father or of his mother was to be seen. "Father--mother!" he cried,
but he received no answer. Just then the Star cast its golden gleam
through the latticed window, and this strange, holy light fell and rested
upon the symbol of the cross that lay upon the floor. Seeing it, Claus
stooped and picked it up, and kissing it reverently, he cried: "Dear
talisman, be thou my inspiration evermore; and wheresoever thy blessed
influence is felt, there also let my works be known henceforth forever!"

No sooner had he said these words than Claus felt the gift of immortality
bestowed upon him; and in that moment, too, there came to him a knowledge
that his parents' prayer had been answered, and that Norss and Faia would
live in him through all time.

And lo! to that place and in that hour came all the people of Mist-Land
and of Dream-Land to declare allegiance to him: yes, the elves, the
fairies, the pixies,--all came to Claus, prepared to do his bidding.
Joyously they capered about him, and merrily they sang.

"Now haste ye all," cried Claus,--"haste ye all to your homes and bring to
my workshop the best ye have. Search, little hill-people, deep in the
bowels of the earth for finest gold and choicest jewels; fetch me, O
mermaids, from the bottom of the sea the treasures hidden there,--the
shells of rainbow tints, the smooth, bright pebbles, and the strange ocean
flowers; go, pixies, and other water-sprites, to your secret lakes, and
bring me pearls! Speed! speed you all! for many pretty things have we to
make for the little ones of earth we love!"

But to the kobolds and the brownies Claus said: "Fly to every house on
earth where the cross is known; loiter unseen in the corners, and watch
and hear the children through the day. Keep a strict account of good and
bad, and every night bring back to me the names of good and bad, that I
may know them."

The kobolds and the brownies laughed gleefully, and sped away on noiseless
wings; and so, too, did the other fairies and elves.

There came also to Claus the beasts of the forest and the birds of the
air, and bade him be their master. And up danced the Four Winds, and they
said: "May we not serve you, too?"

The snow-king came stealing along in his feathery chariot. "Oho!" he
cried, "I shall speed over all the world and tell them you are coming. In
town and country, on the mountain-tops and in the valleys,--wheresoever
the cross is raised,--there will I herald your approach, and thither will
I strew you a pathway of feathery white. Oho! oho!" So, singing softly,
the snow-king stole upon his way.

But of all the beasts that begged to do him service, Claus liked the
reindeer best. "You shall go with me in my travels; for henceforth I shall
bear my treasures not only to the children of the North, but to the
children in every land whither the Star points me and where the cross is
lifted up!" So said Claus to the reindeer, and the reindeer neighed
joyously and stamped their hoofs impatiently, as though they longed to
start immediately.

Oh, many, many times has Claus whirled away from his far Northern home in
his sledge drawn by the reindeer, and thousands upon thousands of
beautiful gifts--all of his own making--has he borne to the children of
every land; for he loves them all alike, and they all alike love him, I
trow. So truly do they love him that they call him Santa Claus, and I am
sure that he must be a saint; for he has lived these many hundred years,
and we, who know that he was born of Faith and Love, believe that he will
live forever.

1886.




+THE COMING OF THE PRINCE+




THE COMING OF THE PRINCE


I

"Whirr-r-r! whirr-r-r! whirr-r-r!" said the wind, and it tore through the
streets of the city that Christmas eve, turning umbrellas inside out,
driving the snow in fitful gusts before it, creaking the rusty signs and
shutters, and playing every kind of rude prank it could think of.

"How cold your breath is to-night!" said Barbara, with a shiver, as she
drew her tattered little shawl the closer around her benumbed body.

"Whirr-r-r! whirr-r-r! whirr-r-r!" answered the wind; "but why are you out
in this storm? You should be at home by the warm fire."

"I have no home," said Barbara; and then she sighed bitterly, and
something like a tiny pearl came in the corner of one of her sad blue
eyes.

But the wind did not hear her answer, for it had hurried up the street to
throw a handful of snow in the face of an old man who was struggling along
with a huge basket of good things on each arm.

"Why are you not at the cathedral?" asked a snowflake, as it alighted on
Barbara's shoulder. "I heard grand music, and saw beautiful lights there
as I floated down from the sky a moment ago."

"What are they doing at the cathedral?" inquired Barbara.

"Why, haven't you heard?" exclaimed the snowflake. "I supposed everybody
knew that the prince was coming to-morrow."

"Surely enough; this is Christmas eve," said Barbara, "and the prince will
come tomorrow."

Barbara remembered that her mother had told her about the prince, how
beautiful and good and kind and gentle he was, and how he loved the little
children; but her mother was dead now, and there was none to tell Barbara
of the prince and his coming,--none but the little snowflake.

"I should like to see the prince," said Barbara, "for I have heard he was
very beautiful and good."

"That he is," said the snowflake. "I have never seen him, but I heard the
pines and the firs singing about him as I floated over the forest
to-night."

"Whirr-r-r! whirr-r-r!" cried the wind, returning boisterously to where
Barbara stood. "I've been looking for you everywhere, little snowflake! So
come with me."

And without any further ado, the wind seized upon the snowflake and
hurried it along the street and led it a merry dance through the icy air
of the winter night.

Barbara trudged on through the snow and looked in at the bright things in
the shop windows. The glitter of the lights and the sparkle of the vast
array of beautiful Christmas toys quite dazzled her. A strange mingling of
admiration, regret, and envy filled the poor little creature's heart.

"Much as I may yearn to have them, it cannot be," she said to herself,
"yet I may feast my eyes upon them."

"Go away from here!" said a harsh voice. "How can the rich people see all
my fine things if you stand before the window? Be off with you, you
miserable little beggar!"

It was the shopkeeper, and he gave Barbara a savage box on the ear that
sent her reeling into the deeper snowdrifts of the gutter.

Presently she came to a large house where there seemed to be much mirth
and festivity. The shutters were thrown open, and through the windows
Barbara could see a beautiful Christmas tree in the centre of a spacious
room,--a beautiful Christmas tree ablaze with red and green lights, and
heavy with toys and stars and glass balls, and other beautiful things that
children love. There was a merry throng around the tree, and the children
were smiling and gleeful, and all in that house seemed content and happy.
Barbara heard them singing, and their song was about the prince who was to
come on the morrow.

"This must be the house where the prince will stop," thought Barbara. "How
I would like to see his face and hear his voice!--yet what would he care
for _me_, a 'miserable little beggar'?"

So Barbara crept on through the storm, shivering and disconsolate, yet
thinking of the prince.

"Where are you going?" she asked of the wind as it overtook her.

"To the cathedral," laughed the wind. "The great people are flocking
there, and I will have a merry time amongst them, ha, ha, ha!"

And with laughter the wind whirled away and chased the snow toward the
cathedral.

"It is there, then, that the prince will come," thought Barbara. "It is a
beautiful place, and the people will pay him homage there. Perhaps I shall
see him if I go there."

So she went to the cathedral. Many folk were there in their richest
apparel, and the organ rolled out its grand music, and the people sang
wondrous songs, and the priests made eloquent prayers; and the music, and
the songs, and the prayers were all about the prince and his expected
coming. The throng that swept in and out of the great edifice talked
always of the prince, the prince, the prince, until Barbara really loved
him very much, for all the gentle words she heard the people say of him.

"Please, can I go and sit inside?" inquired Barbara of the sexton.

"No!" said the sexton, gruffly, for this was an important occasion with
the sexton, and he had no idea of wasting words on a beggar child.

"But I will be very good and quiet," pleaded Barbara. "Please, may I not
see the prince?"

"I have said no, and I mean it," retorted the sexton. "What have you for
the prince, or what cares the prince for you? Out with you, and don't be
blocking up the doorway!" So the sexton gave Barbara an angry push, and
the child fell half-way down the icy steps of the cathedral. She began to
cry. Some great people were entering the cathedral at the time, and they
laughed to see her falling.

"Have you seen the prince?" inquired a snowflake, alighting on Barbara's
cheek. It was the same little snowflake that had clung to her shawl an
hour ago, when the wind came galloping along on his boisterous search.

"Ah, no!" sighed Barbara, in tears; "but what cares the prince for _me_?"

"Do not speak so bitterly," said the little snowflake. "Go to the forest
and you shall see him, for the prince always comes through the forest to
the city."

Despite the cold, and her bruises, and her tears, Barbara smiled. In the
forest she could behold the prince coming on his way; and he would not see
her, for she would hide among the trees and vines.

"Whirr-r-r, whirr-r-r!" It was the mischievous, romping wind once more;
and it fluttered Barbara's tattered shawl, and set her hair to streaming
in every direction, and swept the snowflake from her cheek and sent it
spinning through the air.

Barbara trudged toward the forest. When she came to the city gate the
watchman stopped her, and held his big lantern in her face, and asked her
who she was and where she was going.

"I am Barbara, and I am going into the forest," said she, boldly.

"Into the forest?" cried the watchman, "and in this storm? No, child; you
will perish!"

"But I am going to see the prince," said Barbara. "They will not let me
watch for him in the church, nor in any of their pleasant homes, so I am
going into the forest."

The watchman smiled sadly. He was a kindly man; he thought of his own
little girl at home.

"No, you must not go to the forest," said he, "for you would perish with
the cold."

But Barbara would not stay. She avoided the watchman's grasp and ran as
fast as ever she could through the city gate.

"Come back, come back!" cried the watchman; "you will perish in the
forest!"

But Barbara would not heed his cry. The falling snow did not stay her, nor
did the cutting blast. She thought only of the prince, and she ran
straightway to the forest.


II

"What do you see up there, O pine-tree?" asked a little vine in the
forest.

"You lift your head among the clouds tonight, and you tremble strangely as
if you saw wondrous sights."

"I see only the distant hill-tops and the dark clouds," answered the
pine-tree. "And the wind sings of the snow-king to-night; to all my
questionings he says, 'Snow, snow, snow,' till I am weary with his
refrain."

"But the prince will surely come to-morrow?" inquired the tiny snowdrop
that nestled close to the vine.

"Oh, yes," said the vine. "I heard the country folks talking about it as
they went through the forest to-day, and they said that the prince would
surely come on the morrow."

"What are you little folks down there talking about?" asked the pine-tree.

"We are talking about the prince," said the vine.

"Yes, he is to come on the morrow," said the pine-tree, "but not until the
day dawns, and it is still all dark in the east."

"Yes," said the fir-tree, "the east is black, and only the wind and the
snow issue from it."

"Keep your head out of my way!" cried the pine-tree to the fir; "with your
constant bobbing around I can hardly see at all."

"Take _that_ for your bad manners," retorted the fir, slapping the
pine-tree savagely with one of her longest branches.

The pine-tree would put up with no such treatment, so he hurled his
largest cone at the fir; and for a moment or two it looked as if there
were going to be a serious commotion in the forest.

"Hush!" cried the vine in a startled tone; "there is some one coming
through the forest."

The pine-tree and the fir stopped quarrelling, and the snowdrop nestled
closer to the vine, while the vine hugged the pine-tree very tightly. All
were greatly alarmed.

"Nonsense!" said the pine-tree, in a tone of assumed bravery. "No one
would venture into the forest at such an hour."

"Indeed! and why not?" cried a child's voice. "Will you not let me watch
with you for the coming of the prince?"

"Will you not chop me down?" inquired the pine-tree, gruffly.

"Will you not tear me from my tree?" asked the vine.

"Will you not pluck my blossoms?" plaintively piped the snowdrop.

"No, of course not," said Barbara; "I have come only to watch with you for
the prince."

Then Barbara told them who she was, and how cruelly she had been treated
in the city, and how she longed to see the prince, who was to come on the
morrow. And as she talked, the forest and all therein felt a great
compassion for her.

"Lie at my feet," said the pine-tree, "and I will protect you."

"Nestle close to me, and I will chafe your temples and body and limbs till
they are warm," said the vine.

"Let me rest upon your cheek, and I will sing you my little songs," said
the snowdrop.

And Barbara felt very grateful for all these homely kindnesses. She rested
in the velvety snow at the foot of the pine-tree, and the vine chafed her
body and limbs, and the little flower sang sweet songs to her.

"Whirr-r-r, whirr-r-r!" There was that noisy wind again, but this time it
was gentler than it had been in the city.

"Here you are, my little Barbara," said the wind, in kindly tones. "I have
brought you the little snowflake. I am glad you came away from the city,
for the people are proud and haughty there; oh, but I will have my fun
with them!"

Then, having dropped the little snowflake on Barbara's cheek, the wind
whisked off to the city again. And we can imagine that it played rare
pranks with the proud, haughty folk on its return; for the wind, as you
know, is no respecter of persons.

"Dear Barbara," said the snowflake, "I will watch with thee for the coming
of the prince."

And Barbara was glad, for she loved the little snowflake, that was so pure
and innocent and gentle.

"Tell us, O pine-tree," cried the vine, "what do you see in the east? Has
the prince yet entered the forest?"

"The east is full of black clouds," said the pine-tree, "and the winds
that hurry to the hill-tops sing of the snow."

"But the city is full of brightness," said the fir. "I can see the lights
in the cathedral, and I can hear wondrous music about the prince and his
coming."

"Yes, they are singing of the prince in the cathedral," said Barbara,
sadly.

"But we shall see him first," whispered the vine, reassuringly.

"Yes, the prince will come through the forest," said the little snowdrop,
gleefully.

"Fear not, dear Barbara, we shall behold the prince in all his glory,"
cried the snowflake.

Then all at once there was a strange hubbub in the forest; for it was
midnight, and the spirits came from their hiding-places to prowl about and
to disport themselves. Barbara beheld them all in great wonder and
trepidation, for she had never before seen the spirits of the forest,
although she had often heard of them. It was a marvellous sight.

"Fear nothing," whispered the vine to Barbara,--"fear nothing, for they
dare not touch you."

The antics of the wood-spirits continued but an hour; for then a cock
crowed, and immediately thereat, with a wondrous scurrying, the elves and
the gnomes and the other grotesque spirits sought their abiding-places in
the caves and in the hollow trunks and under the loose bark of the trees.
And then it was very quiet once more in the forest.

"It is very cold," said Barbara. "My hands and feet are like ice."

Then the pine-tree and the fir shook down the snow from their broad
boughs, and the snow fell upon Barbara and covered her like a white
mantle.

"You will be warm now," said the vine, kissing Barbara's forehead. And
Barbara smiled.

Then the snowdrop sang a lullaby about the moss that loved the violet. And
Barbara said, "I am going to sleep; will you wake me when the prince comes
through the forest?"

And they said they would. So Barbara fell asleep.


III

"The bells in the city are ringing merrily," said the fir, "and the music
in the cathedral is louder and more beautiful than before. Can it be that
the prince has already come into the city?"

"No," cried the pine-tree, "look to the east and see the Christmas day
a-dawning! The prince is coming, and his pathway is through the forest!"

The storm had ceased. Snow lay upon all the earth. The hills, the forest,
the city, and the meadows were white with the robe the storm-king had
thrown over them. Content with his wondrous work, the storm-king himself
had fled to his far Northern home before the dawn of the Christmas day.
Everything was bright and sparkling and beautiful. And most beautiful was
the great hymn of praise the forest sang that Christmas morning,--the
pine-trees and the firs and the vines and the snow-flowers that sang of
the prince and of his promised coming.

"Wake up, little one," cried the vine, "for the prince is coming!"

But Barbara slept; she did not hear the vine's soft calling, nor the lofty
music of the forest.

A little snow-bird flew down from the fir-tree's bough and perched upon
the vine, and carolled in Barbara's ear of the Christmas morning and of
the coming of the prince. But Barbara slept; she did not hear the carol of
the bird.

"Alas!" sighed the vine, "Barbara will not awaken, and the prince is
coming."

Then the vine and the snowdrop wept, and the pine-tree and the fir were
very sad.

The prince came through the forest clad in royal raiment and wearing a
golden crown. Angels came with him, and the forest sang a great hymn unto
the prince, such a hymn as had never before been heard on earth. The
prince came to the sleeping child and smiled upon her and called her by
name.

"Barbara, my little one," said the prince, "awaken, and come with me."

Then Barbara opened her eyes and beheld the prince. And it seemed as if a
new life had come to her, for there was warmth in her body, and a flush
upon her cheeks and a light in her eyes that were divine. And she was
clothed no longer in rags, but in white flowing raiment; and upon the soft
brown hair there was a crown like those which angels wear. And as Barbara
arose and went to the prince, the little snowflake fell from her cheek
upon her bosom, and forthwith became a pearl more precious than all other
jewels upon earth.

And the prince took Barbara in his arms and blessed her, and turning round
about, returned with the little child unto his home, while the forest and
the sky and the angels sang a wondrous song.

The city waited for the prince, but he did not come. None knew of the
glory of the forest that Christmas morning, nor of the new life that came
to little Barbara.

_Come thou, dear Prince, oh, come to us this holy Christmas time! Come
to the busy marts of earth, the quiet homes, the noisy streets, the humble
lanes; come to us all, and with thy love touch every human heart, that we
may know that love, and in its blessed peace bear charity to all
mankind_!

1886.




+THE MOUSE AND THE MOONBEAM+




THE MOUSE AND THE MOONBEAM


Whilst you were sleeping, little Dear-my-Soul, strange things happened;
but that I saw and heard them, I should never have believed them. The
clock stood, of course, in the corner, a moonbeam floated idly on the
floor, and a little mauve mouse came from the hole in the chimney corner
and frisked and scampered in the light of the moonbeam upon the floor. The
little mauve mouse was particularly merry; sometimes she danced upon two
legs and sometimes upon four legs, but always very daintily and always
very merrily.

"Ah, me!" sighed the old clock, "how different mice are nowadays from the
mice we used to have in the good old times! Now there was your grandma,
Mistress Velvetpaw, and there was your grandpa, Master Sniffwhisker,--how
grave and dignified they were! Many a night have I seen them dancing upon
the carpet below me, but always the stately minuet and never that crazy
frisking which you are executing now, to my surprise--yes, and to my
horror, too."

"But why shouldn't I be merry?" asked the little mauve mouse. "To-morrow
is Christmas, and this is Christmas eve."

"So it is," said the old clock. "I had really forgotten all about it. But,
tell me, what is Christmas to you, little Miss Mauve Mouse?"

"A great deal to me!" cried the little mauve mouse. "I have been very good
a very long time: I have not used any bad words, nor have I gnawed any
holes, nor have I stolen any canary seed, nor have I worried my mother by
running behind the flour-barrel where that horrid trap is set. In fact, I
have been so good that I'm very sure Santa Claus will bring me something
very pretty."

This seemed to amuse the old clock mightily; in fact, the old clock fell
to laughing so heartily that in an unguarded moment she struck twelve
instead of ten, which was exceedingly careless and therefore to be
reprehended.

"Why, you silly little mauve mouse," said the old clock, "you don't
believe in Santa Claus, do you?"

"Of course I do," answered the little mauve mouse. "Believe in Santa
Claus? Why shouldn't I? Didn't Santa Claus bring me a beautiful
butter-cracker last Christmas, and a lovely gingersnap, and a delicious
rind of cheese, and--and--lots of things? I should be very ungrateful if I
did _not_ believe in Santa Claus, and I certainly shall not
disbelieve in him at the very moment when I am expecting him to arrive
with a bundle of goodies for me.

"I once had a little sister," continued the little mauve mouse, "who did
not believe in Santa Claus, and the very thought of the fate that befell
her makes my blood run cold and my whiskers stand on end. She died before
I was born, but my mother has told me all about her. Perhaps you never saw
her; her name was Squeaknibble, and she was in stature one of those long,
low, rangy mice that are seldom found in well-stocked pantries. Mother
says that Squeaknibble took after our ancestors who came from New England,
where the malignant ingenuity of the people and the ferocity of the cats
rendered life precarious indeed. Squeaknibble seemed to inherit many
ancestral traits, the most conspicuous of which was a disposition to sneer
at some of the most respected dogmas in mousedom. From her very infancy
she doubted, for example, the widely accepted theory that the moon was
composed of green cheese; and this heresy was the first intimation her
parents had of the sceptical turn of her mind. Of course, her parents were
vastly annoyed, for their maturer natures saw that this youthful
scepticism portended serious, if not fatal, consequences. Yet all in vain
did the sagacious couple reason and plead with their headstrong and
heretical child.

"For a long time Squeaknibble would not believe that there was any such
archfiend as a cat; but she came to be convinced to the contrary one
memorable night, on which occasion she lost two inches of her beautiful
tail, and received so terrible a fright that for fully an hour afterward
her little heart beat so violently as to lift her off her feet and bump
her head against the top of our domestic hole. The cat that deprived my
sister of so large a percentage of her vertebral colophon was the same
brindled ogress that nowadays steals ever and anon into this room,
crouches treacherously behind the sofa, and feigns to be asleep, hoping,
forsooth, that some of us, heedless of her hated presence, will venture
within reach of her diabolical claws. So enraged was this ferocious
monster at the escape of my sister that she ground her fangs viciously
together, and vowed to take no pleasure in life until she held in her
devouring jaws the innocent little mouse which belonged to the mangled bit
of tail she even then clutched in her remorseless claws."

"Yes," said the old clock, "now that you recall the incident, I recollect
it well. I was here then, in this very corner, and I remember that I
laughed at the cat and chided her for her awkwardness. My reproaches
irritated her; she told me that a clock's duty was to run itself down,
_not_ to be depreciating the merits of others! Yes, I recall the
time; that cat's tongue is fully as sharp as her claws."

"Be that as it may," said the little mauve mouse, "it is a matter of
history, and therefore beyond dispute, that from that very moment the cat
pined for Squeaknibble's life; it seemed as if that one little two-inch
taste of Squeaknibble's tail had filled the cat with a consuming passion,
or appetite, for the rest of Squeaknibble. So the cat waited and watched
and hunted and schemed and devised and did everything possible for a
cat--a cruel cat--to do in order to gain her murderous ends. One
night--one fatal Christmas eve--our mother had undressed the children for
bed, and was urging upon them to go to sleep earlier than usual, since she
fully expected that Santa Claus would bring each of them something very
palatable and nice before morning. Thereupon the little dears whisked
their cunning tails, pricked up their beautiful ears, and began telling
one another what they hoped Santa Claus would bring. One asked for a slice
of Roquefort, another for Neufchâtel, another for Sap Sago, and a fourth
for Edam; one expressed a preference for de Brie, while another hoped to
get Parmesan; one clamored for imperial blue Stilton, and another craved
the fragrant boon of Caprera. There were fourteen little ones then, and
consequently there were diverse opinions as to the kind of gift which
Santa Claus should best bring; still, there was, as you can readily
understand, an enthusiastic unanimity upon this point, namely, that the
gift should be cheese of some brand or other.

"'My dears,' said our mother, 'what matters it whether the boon which
Santa Claus brings be royal English cheddar or fromage de Bricquebec,
Vermont sage, or Herkimer County skim-milk? We should be content with
whatsoever Santa Glaus bestows, so long as it be cheese, disjoined from
all traps whatsoever, unmixed with Paris green, and free from glass,
strychnine, and other harmful ingredients. As for myself, I shall be
satisfied with a cut of nice, fresh Western reserve; for truly I recognize
in no other viand or edible half the fragrance or half the gustfulness to
be met with in one of these pale but aromatic domestic products. So run
away to your dreams now, that Santa Claus may find you sleeping.'

"The children obeyed,--all but Squeaknibble. 'Let the others think what
they please,' said she, 'but _I_ don't believe in Santa Claus. I'm
not going to bed, either. I'm going to creep out of this dark hole and
have a quiet romp, all by myself, in the moonlight.' Oh, what a vain,
foolish, wicked little mouse was Squeaknibble! But I will not reproach the
dead; her punishment came all too swiftly. Now listen: who do you suppose
overheard her talking so disrespectfully of Santa Claus?"

"Why, Santa Claus himself," said the old clock.

"Oh, no," answered the little mauve mouse. "It was that wicked, murderous
cat! Just as Satan lurks and lies in wait for bad children, so does the
cruel cat lurk and lie in wait for naughty little mice. And you can depend
upon it, that when that awful cat heard Squeaknibble speak so
disrespectfully of Santa Claus, her wicked eyes glowed with joy, her sharp
teeth watered, and her bristling fur emitted electric sparks as big as
marrowfat peas. Then what did that bloodthirsty monster do but scuttle as
fast as she could into Dear-my-Soul's room, leap up into Dear-my-Soul's
crib, and walk off with the pretty little white muff which Dear-my-Soul
used to wear when she went for a visit to the little girl in the next
block! What upon earth did the horrid old cat want with Dear-my-Soul's
pretty little white muff? Ah, the duplicity, the diabolical ingenuity of
that cat! Listen.

"In the first place," resumed the little mauve mouse, after a pause that
testified eloquently to the depth of her emotion,--"in the first place,
that wretched cat dressed herself up in that pretty little white muff, by
which you are to understand that she crawled through the muff just so far
as to leave her four cruel legs at liberty."

"Yes, I understand," said the old clock.

"Then she put on the boy doll's fur cap," said the little mauve mouse,
"and when she was arrayed in the boy doll's fur cap and Dear-my-Soul's
pretty little white muff, of course she didn't look like a cruel cat at
all. But whom did she look like?"

"Like the boy doll," suggested the old clock.

"No, no!" cried the little mauve mouse.

"Like Dear-my-Soul?" asked the old clock.

"How stupid you are!" exclaimed the little mauve mouse. "Why, she looked
like Santa Claus, of course!"

"Oh, yes; I see," said the old clock. "Now I begin to be interested; go
on."

"Alas!" sighed the little mauve mouse, "not much remains to be told; but
there is more of my story left than there was of Squeaknibble when that
horrid cat crawled out of that miserable disguise. You are to understand
that, contrary to her sagacious mother's injunction, and in notorious
derision of the mooted coming of Santa Claus, Squeaknibble issued from the
friendly hole in the chimney corner, and gambolled about over this very
carpet, and, I dare say, in this very moonlight."

"I do not know," said the moonbeam, faintly. "I am so very old, and I have
seen so many things--I do not know."

"Right merrily was Squeaknibble gambolling," continued the little mauve
mouse, "and she had just turned a double back somersault without the use
of what remained of her tail, when, all of a sudden, she beheld, looming
up like a monster ghost, a figure all in white fur! Oh, how frightened she
was, and how her little heart did beat! 'Purr, purr-r-r,' said the ghost
in white fur. 'Oh, please don't hurt me!' pleaded Squeaknibble. 'No; I'll
not hurt you,' said the ghost in white fur; 'I'm Santa Claus, and I've
brought you a beautiful piece of savory old cheese, you dear little
mousie, you.' Poor Squeaknibble was deceived; a sceptic all her life, she
was at last befooled by the most palpable and most fatal of frauds. 'How
good of you!' said Squeaknibble. 'I didn't believe there was a Santa
Claus, and--' but before she could say more she was seized by two sharp,
cruel claws that conveyed her crushed body to the murderous mouth of
mousedom's most malignant foe. I can dwell no longer upon this harrowing
scene. Suffice it to say that ere the morrow's sun rose like a big yellow
Herkimer County cheese upon the spot where that tragedy had been enacted,
poor Squeaknibble passed to that bourn whence two inches of her beautiful
tail had preceded her by the space of three weeks to a day. As for Santa
Claus, when he came that Christmas eve, bringing morceaux de Brie and of
Stilton for the other little mice, he heard with sorrow of Squeaknibble's
fate; and ere he departed he said that in all his experience he had never
known of a mouse or of a child that had prospered after once saying that
he didn't believe in Santa Claus."

"Well, that is a remarkable story," said the old clock. "But if you
believe in Santa Glaus, why aren't you in bed?"

"That's where I shall be presently," answered the little mauve mouse, "but
I must have my scamper, you know. It is very pleasant, I assure you, to
frolic in the light of the moon; only I cannot understand why you are
always so cold and so solemn and so still, you pale, pretty little
moonbeam."

"Indeed, I do not know that I am so," said the moonbeam. "But I am very
old, and I have travelled many, many leagues, and I have seen wondrous
things. Sometimes I toss upon the ocean, sometimes I fall upon a
slumbering flower, sometimes I rest upon a dead child's face. I see the
fairies at their play, and I hear mothers singing lullabies. Last night 