and the corpus
vitreum. Between the retina and the choroid there is a very delicate
membrane, which is usually (but wrongly) associated with the latter.
This is the black pigment-membrane (n). It consists of a single
stratum of graceful, hexagonal, regularly-joined cells, full of
granules of black colouring matter. This pigment membrane clothes, not
only the inner surface of the choroid proper, but also the hind
surface of its anterior muscular continuation, which covers the edge
of the lens in front as a circular membrane, and arrests the rays of
light at the sides. This is the well-known iris of the eye (h),
coloured differently in different individuals (blue, grey, brown,
etc.); it forms the anterior border of the choroid. The circular
opening that is left in the middle is the pupil, through which the
rays of light penetrate into the eye. At the point where the iris
leaves the anterior border of the choroid proper the latter is very
thick, and forms a delicate crown of folds (g), which surrounds the
edge of the lens with about seventy large and many smaller rays
(corona ciliaris.)

At a very early stage a couple of pear-shaped vesicles develop from
the foremost part of the first cerebral vesicle in the embryo of man
and the other Craniotes (Figures 1.155 a and 2.297 au). These growths
are the primary optic vesicles. They are at first directed outwards
and forwards, but presently grow downward, so that, after the complete
separation of the five cerebral vesicles, they lie at the base of the
intermediate brain. The inner cavities of these pear-shaped vesicles,
which soon attain a considerable size, are openly connected with the
ventricle of the intermediate brain by their hollow stems. They are
covered externally by the epidermis.

(FIGURE 2.316. Face of a human embryo, eight weeks old (From Ecker.))

At the point where this comes into direct contact with the most curved
part of the primary optic vesicle there is a thickening (l) and also a
depression (o) of the horny plate (Figure 2.318, I). This pit, which
we may call the lens-pit, is converted into a closed sac, the
thick-walled lens-vesicle (2, l), the thick edges of the pit joining
together above it. In the same way in which the medullary tube
separates from the outer germinal layer, we now see this lens-sac
sever itself entirely from the horny plate (h), its source of origin.
The hollow of the sac is afterwards filled with the cells of its thick
walls, and thus we get the solid crystalline lens. This is, therefore,
a purely epidermic structure. Together with the lens the small
underlying piece of corium-plate also separates from the skin.

As the lens separates from the corneous plate and grows inwards, it
necessarily hollows out the contiguous primary optic vesicle (Figure
2.318, 1 to 3). This is done in just the same way as the invagination
of the blastula, which gives rise to the gastrula in the amphioxus
(Figure 2.38 C to F). In both cases the hollowing of the closed
vesicle on one side goes so far that at last the inner, folded part
touches the outer, not folded part, and the cavity disappears. As in
the gastrula the first part is converted into the entoderm and the
latter into the ectoderm, so in the invagination of the primary optic
vesicle the retina (r) is formed from the first (inner) part, and the
black pigment membrane (u) from the latter (outer, non-invaginated)
part. The hollow stem of the primary optic vesicle is converted into
the optic nerve. The lens (l), which has so important a part in this
process, lies at first directly on the invaginated part, or the retina
(r). But they soon separate, a new structure, the corpus vitreum (gl),
growing between them. While the lenticular sac is being detached and
is causing the invagination of the primary optic vesicle, another
invagination is taking place from below; this proceeds from the
superficial part of the skin-fibre layer--the corium of the head.
Behind and under the lens a last-shaped process rises from the
cutis-plate (Figure 2.319 g), hollows out the cup-shaped optic vesicle
from below, and presses between the lens (l) and the retina (i). In
this way the optic vesicle acquires the form of a hood.

(FIGURE 2.317. The human eye in section. a sclerotic coat, b cornea, c
conjunctiva, d circular veins of the iris, e choroid coat, f ciliary
muscle, g corona ciliaris, h iris, i optic nerve, k anterior border of
the retina, l crystalline lens, m inner covering of the cornea
(aqueous membrane), n pigment membrane, o retina, p Petit's canal, q
yellow spot of the retina. (From Helmholtz.))

Finally, a complete fibrous envelope, the fibrous capsule of the
eye-ball, is formed about the secondary optic vesicle and its stem
(the secondary optic nerve). It originates from the part of the
head-plates which immediately encloses the eye. This fibrous envelope
takes the form of a closed round vesicle, surrounding the whole of the
ball and pushing between the lens and the horny plate at its outer
side. The round wall of the capsule soon divides into two different
membranes by surface-cleavage. The inner membrane becomes the choroid
or vascular coat, and in front the ciliary corona and iris. The outer
membrane is converted into the white protective or sclerotic coat--in
front, the transparent cornea. The eye is now formed in all its
essential parts. The further development--the complicated
differentiation and composition of the various parts--is a matter of
detail.

(FIGURE 2.318. Eye of the chick embryo in longitudinal section (1.
from an embryo sixty-five hours old; 2. from a somewhat older embryo;
3. from an embryo four days old). h horny plate, o lens-pit, l lens
(in 1. still part of the epidermis, in 2. and 3. separated from it), x
thickening of the horny plate at the point where the lens has severed
itself, gl corpus vitreum, r retina, u pigment membrane. (From
Remak.))

The chief point in this remarkable evolution of the eye is the
circumstance that the optic nerve, the retina, and the pigment
membrane originate really from a part of the brain--an outgrowth of
the intermediate brain--while the lens, the chief refractive body,
develops from the outer skin. From the skin--the horny plate--also
arises the delicate conjunctiva, which afterwards covers the outer
surface of the eyeball. The lachrymal glands are ramified growths from
the conjunctiva (Figure 2.286). All these important parts of the eye
are products of the outer germinal layer. The remaining parts--the
corpus vitreum (with the vascular capsule of the lens), the choroid
(with the iris), and the sclerotic (with the cornea)--are formed from
the middle germinal layer.

The outer protection of the eye, the eye-lids, are merely folds of the
skin, which are formed in the third month of human embryonic life. In
the fourth month the upper eye-lid reaches the lower, and the eye
remains covered with them until birth. As a rule, they open wide
shortly before birth (sometimes only after birth). Our craniote
ancestors had a third eye-lid, the nictitating membrane, which was
drawn over the eye from its inner angle. It is still found in many of
the Selachii and Amniotes. In the apes and man it has degenerated, and
there is now only a small relic of it at the inner corner of the eye,
the semi-lunar fold, a useless rudimentary organ (Chapter 1.5). The
apes and man have also lost the Harderian gland that opened under the
nictitating membrane; we find this in the rest of the mammals, and the
birds, reptiles, and amphibia.

The peculiar embryonic development of the vertebrate eye does not
enable us to draw any definite conclusions as to its obscure
phylogeny; it is clearly cenogenetic to a great extent, or obscured by
the reduction and curtailment of its original features. It is probable
that many of the earlier stages of its phylogeny have disappeared
without leaving a trace. It can only be said positively that the
peculiar ontogeny of the complicated optic apparatus in man follows
just the same laws as in all the other Vertebrates. Their eye is a
part of the fore brain, which has grown forward towards the skin, not
an original cutaneous sense-organ, as in the Invertebrates.

(FIGURE 2.319. Horizontal transverse section of the eye of a human
embryo, four weeks old (magnified one hundred times). (From Kolliker.)
t lens (the dark wall of which is as thick as the diameter of the
central cavity), g corpus vitreum (connected by a stem, g, with the
corium), v vascular loop (pressing behind the lens inside the corpus
vitreum by means of this stem g), i retina (inner thicker, invaginated
layer of the primary optic vesicle), a pigment membrane (outer, thin,
non-invaginated layer of same), h space between retina and pigment
membrane (remainder of the cavity of the primary optic vesicle).

FIGURE 2.320. The human ear (left ear, seen from the front, natural
size), a shell of ear, b external passage, c tympanum, d tympanic
cavity, e Eustachian tube, f, g, h the three bones of the ear (f
hammer, g anvil, h stirrup), i utricle, k the three semi-circular
canals, l the sacculus, m cochlea, n auscultory nerve.)

The vertebrate ear resembles the eye and nose in many important
respects, but is different in others, in its development. The
auscultory organ in the fully-developed man is like that of the other
mammals, and especially the apes, in the main features. As in them, it
consists of two chief parts--an apparatus for conducting sound
(external and middle ear) and an apparatus for the sensation of sound
(internal ear). The external ear opens in the shell at the side of the
head (Figure 2.320 a). From this point the external passage (b), about
an inch in length, leads into the head. The inner end of it is closed
by the tympanum, a vertical, but not quite upright, thin membrane of
an oval shape (c). This tympanum separates the external passage from
the tympanic cavity (d). This is a small cavity, filled with air, in
the temporal bone; it is connected with the mouth by a special tube.
This tube is rather longer, but much narrower, than the outer passage,
leads inwards obliquely from the anterior wall of the tympanic cavity,
and opens in the throat below, behind the nasal openings. It is called
the Eustachian tube (e); it serves to equalise the pressure of the air
within the tympanic cavity and the outer atmosphere that enters by the
external passage. Both the Eustachian tube and the tympanic cavity are
lined with a thin mucous coat, which is a direct continuation of the
mucous lining of the throat. Inside the tympanic cavity there are
three small bones which are known (from their shape) as the hammer,
anvil, and stirrup (Figure 2.320, f, g, h). The hammer (f) is the
outermost, next to the tympanum. The anvil (g) fits between the other
two, above and inside the hammer. The stirrup (h) lies inside the
anvil, and touches with its base the outer wall of the internal ear,
or auscultory vesicle. All these parts of the external and middle ear
belong to the apparatus for conducting sound. Their chief task is to
convey the waves of sound through the thick wall of the head to the
inner-lying auscultory vesicle. They are not found at all in the
fishes. In these the waves of sound are conveyed directly by the wall
of the head to the auscultory vesicle.

The internal apparatus for the sensation of sound, which receives the
waves of sound from the conducting apparatus, consists in man and all
other mammals of a closed auscultory vesicle filled with fluid and an
auditory nerve, the ends of which expand over the wall of this
vesicle. The vibrations of the sound-waves are conveyed by these media
to the nerve-endings. In the labyrinthic water that fills the
auscultory vesicle there are small stones at the points of entry of
the acoustic nerves, which are composed of groups of microscopic
calcareous crystals (otoliths). The auscultory organ of most of the
Invertebrates has substantially the same composition. It usually
consists of a closed vesicle, filled with fluid, and containing
otoliths, with the acoustic nerve expanding on its wall. But, while
the auditory vesicle is usually of a simple round or oval shape in the
Invertebrates, it has in the Vertebrates a special and curious
structure, the labyrinth. This thin-membraned labyrinth is enclosed in
a bony capsule of the same shape, the osseous labyrinth (Figure
2.321), and this lies in the middle of the petrous bone of the skull.
The labyrinth is divided into two vesicles in all the Gnathostomes.
The larger one is called the utriculus, and has three arched
appendages, called the "semi-circular canals" (c, d, e). The smaller
vesicle is called the sacculus, and is connected with a peculiar
appendage, with (in man and the higher mammals) a spiral form
something like a snail's shell, and therefore called the cochlea (=
snail, b). On the thin wall of this delicate labyrinth the acoustic
nerve, which comes from the after-brain, spreads out in most elaborate
fashion. It divides into two main branches--a cochlear nerve (for the
cochlea) and a vestibular nerve (for the rest of the labyrinth). The
former seems to have more to do with the quality, the latter with the
quantity, of the acoustic sensations. Through the cochlear nerves we
learn the height and timbre, through the vestibular nerves the
intensity, of tones.

(FIGURE 2.321. The bony labyrinth of the human ear (left side). a
vestibulum, b cochlea, c upper canal, d posterior canal, e outer
canal, f oval fenestra, g round fenestra. (From Meyer.)

FIGURE 2.322. Development of the auscultory labyrinth of the chick, in
five successive stages (A to E). (Vertical transverse sections of the
skull.) fl auscultory pits, lv auscultory vesicles, lr labyrinthic
appendage, c rudimentary cochlea, csp posterior canal, cse external
canal, jv jugular vein. (From Reissner.))

The first structure of this highly elaborate organ is very simple in
the embryo of man and all the other Craniotes; it is a pit-like
depression in the skin. At the back part of the head at both sides,
near the after brain, a small thickening of the horny plate is formed
at the upper end of the second gill-cleft (Figure 2.322 A fl). This
sinks into a sort of pit, and severs from the epidermis, just as the
lens of the eye does. In this way is formed at each side, directly
under the horny plate of the back part of the head, a small vesicle
filled with fluid, the primitive auscultory vesicle, or the primary
labyrinth. As it separates from its source, the horny plate, and
presses inwards and backwards into the skull, it changes from round to
pear-shaped (Figures 2.322 B lv and 2.323 o). The outer part of it is
lengthened into a thin stem, which at first still opens outwards by a
narrow canal. This is the labyrinthic appendage (Figure 2.322 lr). In
the lower Vertebrates it develops into a special cavity filled with
calcareous crystals, which remains open permanently in some of the
primitive fishes, and opens outwards in the upper part of the skull.
But in the mammals the labyrinthic appendage degenerates. In these it
has only a phylogenetic interest as a rudimentary organ, with no
actual physiological significance. The useless relic of it passes
through the wall of the petrous bone in the shape of a narrow canal,
and is called the vestibular aqueduct.

It is only the inner and lower bulbous part of the separated
auscultory vesicle that develops into the highly complex and
differentiated structure that is afterwards known as the secondary
labyrinth. This vesicle divides at an early stage into an upper and
larger and a lower and smaller section. From the one we get the
utriculus with the semi-circular canals; from the other the sacculus
and the cochlea (Figure 2.320 c). The canals are formed in the shape
of simple pouch-like involutions of the utricle (cse and csp). The
edges join together in the middle part of each fold, and separate from
the utricle, the two ends remaining in open connection with its
cavity. All the Gnathostomes have these three canals like man, whereas
among the Cyclostomes the lampreys have only two and the hag-fishes
only one. The very complex structure of the cochlea, one of the most
elaborate and wonderful outcomes of adaptation in the mammal body,
develops originally in very simple fashion as a flask-like projection
from the sacculus. As Hasse and Retzius have pointed out, we find the
successive ontogenetic stages of its growth represented permanently in
the series of the higher Vertebrates. The cochlea is wanting even in
the Monotremes, and is restricted to the rest of the mammals and man.

The auditory nerve, or eighth cerebral nerve, expands with one branch
in the cochlea, and with the other in the remaining parts of the
labyrinth. This nerve is, as Gegenbaur has shown, the sensory dorsal
branch of a cerebro-spinal nerve, the motor ventral branch of which
acts for the muscles of the face (nervus facialis). It has therefore
originated phylogenetically from an ordinary cutaneous nerve, and so
is of quite different origin from the optic and olfactory nerves,
which both represent direct outgrowths of the brain. In this respect
the auscultory organ is essentially different from the organs of sight
and smell. The acoustic nerve is formed from ectodermic cells of the
hind brain, and develops from the nervous structure that appears at
its dorsal limit. On the other hand, all the membranous,
cartilaginous, and osseous coverings of the labyrinth are formed from
the mesodermic head-plates.

(FIGURE 2.323. Primitive skull of the human embryo, four weeks old,
vertical section, left half seen internally. v, z, m, h, n the five
pits of the cranial cavity, in which the five cerebral vesicles lie
(fore, intermediate, middle, hind, and after brains), o pear-shaped
primary auscultory vesicle (appearing through), a eye (appearing
through), no optic nerve, p canal of the hypophysis, t central
prominence of the skull. (From Kolliker.))

The apparatus for conducting sound which we find in the external and
middle ear of mammals develops quite separately from the apparatus for
the sensation of sound. It is both phylogenetically and
ontogenetically an independent secondary formation, a later accession
to the primary internal ear. Nevertheless, its development is not less
interesting, and is explained with the same ease by comparative
anatomy. In all the fishes and in the lowest Vertebrates there is no
special apparatus for conducting sound, no external or middle ear;
they have only a labyrinth, an internal ear, which lies within the
skull. They are without the tympanum and tympanic cavity, and all its
appendages. From many observations made in the last few decades it
seems that many of the fishes (if not all) cannot distinguish tones;
their labyrinth seems to be chiefly (if not exclusively) an organ for
the sense of space (or equilibrium). If it is destroyed, the fishes
lose their balance and fall. In the opinion of recent physiologists
this applies also to many of the Invertebrates (including the nearer
ancestors of the Vertebrates). The round vesicles which are considered
to be their auscultory vesicles, and which contain an otolith, are
supposed to be merely organs of the sense of space ("static vesicles
or statocysts").

The middle ear makes its first appearance in the amphibian class,
where we find a tympanum, tympanic cavity, and Eustachian tube; these
animals, and all terrestrial Vertebrates, certainly have the faculty
of hearing. All these essential parts of the middle ear originate from
the first gill-cleft and its surrounding part; in the Selachii this
remains throughout life an open squirting-hole, and lies between the
first and second gill-arch. In the embryo of the higher Vertebrates it
closes up in the centre, and thus forms the tympanic membrane. The
outlying remainder of the first gill-cleft is the rudiment of the
external meatus. From its inner part we get the tympanic cavity, and,
further inward still, the Eustachian tube. Connected with this is the
development of the three bones of the mammal ear from the first two
gill-arches; the hammer and anvil are formed from the first, the
stirrup from the upper end of the second, gill-arch.

(FIGURE 2.324. The rudimentary muscles of the ear in the human skull.
a raising muscle (M. attollens), b drawing muscle (M. attrahens), c
withdrawing muscle (M. retrahens), d large muscle of the helix (M.
helicis major), e small muscle of the helix (M. helicis minor), f
muscle of the angle of the ear (M. tragicus), g anti-angular muscle
(M. antitragicus). (From H. Meyer.))

Finally, the shell (pinna or concha) and external meatus (passage to
the tympanum) of the outer ear are developed in a very simple fashion
from the skin that borders the external aperture of the first
gill-cleft. The shell rises in the shape of a circular fold of the
skin, in which cartilage and muscles are afterwards formed (Figures
2.313 and 2.315). This organ is only found in the mammalian class. It
is very rudimentary in the lowest section, the Monotremes. In the
others it is found at very different stages of development, and
sometimes of degeneration. It is degenerate in most of the aquatic
mammals. The majority of them have lost it altogether--for instance,
the walruses and whales and most of the seals. On the other hand, the
pinna is well developed in the great majority of the Marsupials and
Placentals; it receives and collects the waves of sound, and is
equipped with a very elaborate muscular apparatus, by means of which
the pinna can be turned freely in any direction and its shape be
altered. It is well known how readily domestic animals--horses, cows,
dogs, hares, etc.--point their ears and move them in different
directions. Most of the apes do the same, and our earlier ape
ancestors were also able to do it. But our later simian ancestors,
which we have in common with the anthropoid apes, abandoned the use of
these muscles, and they gradually became rudimentary and useless.
However, we possess them still (Figure 2.324). In fact, some men can
still move their ears a little backward and forward by means of the
drawing and withdrawing muscles (b and c); with practice this faculty
can be much improved. But no man can now lift up his ears by the
raising muscle (a), or change the shape of them by the small inner
muscles (d, e, f, g). These muscles were very useful to our ancestors,
but are of no consequence to us. This applies to most of the
anthropoid apes as well.

We also share with the higher anthropoid apes (gorilla, chimpanzee,
and orang) the characteristic form of the human outer ear, especially
the folded border, the helix and the lobe. The lower apes have pointed
ears, without folded border or lobe, like the other mammals. But
Darwin has shown that at the upper part of the folded border there is
in many men a small pointed process, which most of us do not possess.
In some individuals this process is well developed. It can only be
explained as the relic of the original point of the ear, which has
been turned inwards in consequence of the curving of the edge. If we
compare the pinna of man and the various apes in this respect, we find
that they present a connected series of degenerate structures. In the
common catarrhine ancestors of the anthropoids and man the
degeneration set in with the folding together of the pinna. This
brought about the helix of the ear, in which we find the significant
angle which represents the relic of the salient point of the ear in
our earlier simian ancestors. Here again, therefore, comparative
anatomy enables us to trace with certainty the human ear to the
similar, but more developed, organ of the lower mammals. At the same
time, comparative physiology shows that it was a more or less useful
implement in the latter, but it is quite useless in the anthropoids
and man. The conducting of the sound has scarcely been affected by the
loss of the pinna. We have also in this the explanation of the
extraordinary variety in the shape and size of the shell of the ear in
different men; in this it resembles other rudimentary organs.


CHAPTER 2.26. EVOLUTION OF THE ORGANS OF MOVEMENT.

The peculiar structure of the locomotive apparatus is one of the
features that are most distinctive of the vertebrate stem. The chief
part of this apparatus is formed, as in all the higher animals, by the
active organs of movement, the muscles; in consequence of their
contractility they have the power to draw up and shorten themselves.
This effects the movement of the various parts of the body, and thus
the whole body is conveyed from place to place. But the arrangement of
these muscles and their relation to the solid skeleton are different
in the Vertebrates from the Invertebrates.

(FIGURE 2.325. The human skeleton. From the right.

FIGURE 2.326. The human skeleton. Front.)

In most of the lower animals, especially the Platodes and Vermalia, we
find that the muscles form a simple, thin layer of flesh immediately
underneath the skin. This muscular layer is very closely connected
with the skin itself; it is the same in the Mollusc stem. Even in the
large division of the Articulates, the classes of crabs, spiders,
myriapods, and insects, we find a similar feature, with the difference
that in this case the skin forms a solid armour--a rigid cutaneous
skeleton made of chitine (and often also of carbonate of lime). This
external chitine coat undergoes a very elaborate articulation both on
the trunk and the limbs of the Articulates, and in consequence the
muscular system also, the contractile fibres of which are attached
inside the chitine tubes, is highly articulated. The Vertebrates form
a direct contrast to this. In these alone a solid internal skeleton is
developed, of cartilage or bone, to which the muscles are attached.
This bony skeleton is a complex lever apparatus, or PASSIVE apparatus
of movement. Its rigid parts, the arms of the levers, or the bones,
are brought together by the actively mobile muscles, as if by
drawing-ropes. This admirable locomotorium, especially its solid
central axis, the vertebral column, is a special feature of the
Vertebrates, and has given the name to the group.

(FIGURE 2.327. The human vertebral column (standing upright, from the
right side). (From H. Meyer.))

In order to get a clear idea of the chief features of the development
of the human skeleton, we must first examine its composition in the
adult frame (Figure 2.325, the human skeleton seen from the right;
Figure 2.326, front view of the whole skeleton). As in other mammals,
we distinguish first between the axial or dorsal skeleton and the
skeleton of the limbs. The axial skeleton consists of the vertebral
column (the skeleton of the trunk) and the skull (skeleton of the
head); the latter is a peculiarly modified part of the former. As
appendages of the vertebral column we have the ribs, and of the skull
we have the hyoid bone, the lower jaw, and the other products of the
gill-arches.

The skeleton of the limbs or extremities is composed of two groups of
parts--the skeleton of the extremities proper and the zone-skeleton,
which connects these with the vertebral column. The zone-skeleton of
the arms (or fore legs) is the shoulder-zone; the zone-skeleton of the
legs (or hind legs) is the pelvic zone.

(FIGURE 2.328. A piece of the axial rod (chorda dorsalis), from a
sheep embryo. a cuticular sheath, b cells. (From Kolliker.))

The vertebral column (Figure 2.327) in man is composed of thirty-three
to thirty-five ring-shaped bones in a continuous series (above each
other, in man's upright position). These vertebrae are separated from
each other by elastic ligaments, and at the same time connected by
joints, so that the whole column forms a firm and solid, but flexible
and elastic, axial skeleton, moving freely in all directions. The
vertebrae differ in shape and connection at the various parts of the
trunk, and we distinguish the following groups in the series,
beginning at the top: Seven cervical vertebrae, twelve dorsal
vertebrae, five lumbar vertebrae, five sacral vertebrae, and four to
six caudal vertebrae. The uppermost, or those next to the skull, are
the cervical vertebrae (Figure 2.327); they have a hole in each of the
lateral processes. There are seven of these vertebrae in man and
almost all the other mammals, even if the neck is as long as that of
the camel or giraffe, or as short as that of the mole or hedgehog.
This constant number, which has few exceptions (due to adaptation), is
a strong proof of the common descent of the mammals; it can only be
explained by faithful heredity from a common stem-form, a primitive
mammal with seven cervical vertebrae. If each species had been created
separately, it would have been better to have given the long-necked
mammals more, and the short-necked animals less, cervical vertebrae.
Next to these come the dorsal (or pectoral) vertebrae, which number
twelve to thirteen (usually twelve) in man and most of the other
mammals. Each dorsal vertebra (Figure 1.165) has at the side,
connected by joints, a couple of ribs, long bony arches that lie in
and protect the wall of the chest. The twelve pairs of ribs, together
with the connecting intercostal muscles and the sternum, which joins
the ends of the right and left ribs in front, form the chest (thorax).
In this strong and elastic frame are the lungs, and between them the
heart. Next to the dorsal vertebrae comes a short but stronger section
of the column, formed of five large vertebrae. These are the lumbar
vertebrae (Figure 1.166); they have no ribs and no holes in the
transverse processes. To these succeeds the sacral bone, which is
fitted between the two halves of the pelvic zone. The sacrum is formed
of five vertebrae, completely blended together. Finally, we have at
the end a small rudimentary caudal column, the coccyx. This consists
of a varying number (usually four, more rarely three, or five or six)
of small degenerated vertebrae, and is a useless rudimentary organ
with no actual physiological significance. Morphologically, however,
it is of great interest as an irrefragable proof of the descent of man
and the anthropoids from long-tailed apes. On no other theory can we
explain the existence of this rudimentary tail. In the earlier stages
of development the tail of the human embryo protrudes considerably. It
afterwards atrophies; but the relic of the atrophied caudal vertebrae
and of the rudimentary muscles that once moved it remains permanently.
Sometimes, in fact, the external tail is preserved. The older
anatomists say that the tail is usually one vertebra longer in the
human female than in the male (or four against five); Steinbach says
it is the reverse.

(FIGURE 2.329. Three dorsal vertebrae, from a human embryo, eight
weeks old, in lateral longitudinal section. v cartilaginous vertebral
body, li inter-vertebral disks, ch chorda. (From Kolliker.)

(FIGURE 2.330. A dorsal vertebra of the same embryo, in lateral
transverse section. cv cartilaginous vertebral body, ch chorda, pr
transverse process, a vertebral arch (upper arch), c upper end of the
rib (lower arch). (From Kolliker.))

In the human vertebral column there are usually thirty-three
vertebrae. It is interesting to find, however, that the number often
changes, one or two vertebrae dropping out or an additional one
appearing. Often, also, a mobile rib is formed at the last cervical or
the first lumbar vertebra, so that there are then thirteen dorsal
vertebrae, besides six cervical and four lumbar. In this way the
contiguous vertebrae of the various sections of the column may take
each other's places.

In order to understand the embryology of the human vertebral column we
must first carefully consider the shape and connection of the
vertebrae. Each vertebra has, in general, the shape of a seal-ring
(Figures 1.164 to 1.166). The thicker portion, which is turned towards
the ventral side, is called the body of the vertebra, and forms a
short osseous disk; the thinner part forms a semi-circular arch, the
vertebral arch, and is turned towards the back. The arches of the
successive vertebrae are connected by thin intercrural ligaments in
such a way that the cavity they collectively enclose represents a long
canal. In this vertebral canal we find the trunk part of the central
nervous system, the spinal cord. Its head part, the brain, is enclosed
by the skull, and the skull itself is merely the uppermost part of the
vertebral column, distinctively modified. The base or ventral side of
the vesicular cranial capsule corresponds originally to a number of
developed vertebral bodies; its vault or dorsal side to their combined
upper vertebral arches.

(FIGURE 2.331. Intervertebral disk of a new-born infant, transverse
section. a rest of the chorda. (From Kolliker.))

While the solid, massive bodies of the vertebrae represent the real
central axis of the skeleton, the dorsal arches serve to protect the
central marrow they enclose. But similar arches develop on the ventral
side for the protection of the viscera in the breast and belly. These
lower or ventral vertebral arches, proceeding from the ventral side of
the vertebral bodies, form, in many of the lower Vertebrates, a canal
in which the large blood-vessels are enclosed on the lower surface of
the vertebral column (aorta and caudal vein). In the higher
Vertebrates the majority of these vertebral arches are lost or become
rudimentary. But at the thoracic section of the column they develop
into independent strong osseous arches, the ribs (costae). In reality
the ribs are merely large and independent lower vertebral arches,
which have lost their original connection with the vertebral bodies.

If we turn from this anatomic survey of the composition of the column
to the question of its development, I may refer the reader to earlier
pages with regard to the first and most important points (Chapter
1.14). It will be remembered that in the human embryo and that of the
other vertebrates we find at first, instead of the segmented column,
only a simple unarticulated cartilaginous rod. This solid but flexible
and elastic rod is the axial rod (or the chorda dorsalis). In the
lowest Vertebrate, the Amphioxus, it retains this simple form
throughout life, and permanently represents the whole internal
skeleton (Figure 2.210 i). In the Tunicates, also, the nearest
Invertebrate relatives of the Vertebrates, we meet the same
chorda--transitorily in the passing larva tail of the Ascidia,
permanently in the Copelata (Figure 2.225 c). Undoubtedly both the
Tunicates and Acrania have inherited the chorda from a common
unsegmented stem-form; and these ancient, long-extinct ancestors of
all the chordonia are our hypothetical Prochordonia.

Long before there is any trace of the skull, limbs, etc., in the
embryo of man or any of the higher Vertebrates--at the early stage in
which the whole body is merely a sole-shaped embryonic shield--there
appears in the middle line of the shield, directly under the medullary
furrow, the simple chorda. (Cf. Figures 1.131 to 1.135 ch). It follows
the long axis of the body in the shape of a cylindrical axial rod of
elastic but firm composition, equally pointed at both ends. In every
case the chorda originates from the dorsal wall of the primitive gut;
the cells that compose it (Figure 2.328 b) belong to the entoderm
(Figures 2.216 to 2.221). At an early stage the chorda develops a
transparent structureless sheath, which is secreted from its cells
(Figure 2.328 a). This chordalemma is often called the "inner
chorda-sheath," and must not be confused with the real external
sheath, the mesoblastic perichorda.

(FIGURE 2.332. Human skull.

FIGURE 2.333. Skull of a new-born child. (From Kollmann.) Above, in
the three bones of the roof of the skull, we see the lines that
radiate from the central points of ossification; in front, the frontal
bone; behind, the occipital bone; between the two the large parietal
bone, p. s the scurf bone, w mastoid fontanelle, f petrous bone, t
tympanic bone, l lateral part, b bulla, j cheek-bone, a large wing of
cuneiform bone, k fontanelle of cuneiform bone.)

But this unsegmented primary axial skeleton is soon replaced by the
segmented secondary axial skeleton, which we know as the vertebral
column. The provertebral plates (Figure 1.124 s) differentiate from
the innermost, median part of the visceral layer of the coelom-pouches
at each side of the chorda. As they grow round the chorda and enclose
it they form the skeleton plate or skeletogenetic layer--that is to
say, the skeleton-forming stratum of cells, which provides the mobile
foundation of the permanent vertebral column and skull (scleroblast).
In the head-half of the embryo the skeletal plate remains a
continuous, simple, undivided layer of tissue, and presently enlarges
into a thin-walled capsule enclosing the brain, the primordial skull.
In the trunk-half the provertebral plate divides into a number of
homogeneous, cubical, successive pieces; these are the several
primitive vertebrae. They are not numerous at first, but soon increase
as the embryo grows longer (Figures 1.153 to 1.155).

(FIGURE 2.334. Head-skeleton of a primitive fish, n nasal pit, eth
cribriform bone region, orb orbit of eye, la wall of auscultory
labyrinth, occ occipital region of primitive skull, cv vertebral
column, a fore, bc hind-lip cartilage, o primitive upper jaw
(palato-quadratum), u primitive lower jaw, II hyaloid bone, III to
VIII first to sixth branchial arches. (From Gegenbaur.)

FIGURE 2.335. Roofs of the skulls of nine Primates (Cattarrhines),
seen from above and reduced to a common size. 1 European, 2 Brazilian,
3 Pithecanthropus, 4 Gorilla, 5 Chimpanzee, 6 Orang, 7 Gibbon, 8
Tailed ape, 9 Baboon.)

In all the Craniotes the soft, indifferent cells of the mesoderm,
which originally compose the skeletal plate, are afterwards converted
for the most part into cartilaginous cells, and these secrete a firm
and elastic intercellular substance between them, and form
cartilaginous tissue. Like most of the other parts of the skeleton,
the membranous rudiments of the vertebrae soon pass into a
cartilaginous state, and in the higher Vertebrates this is afterwards
replaced by the hard osseous tissue with its characteristic stellate
cells (Figure 1.6). The primary axial skeleton remains a simple chorda
throughout life in the Acrania, the Cyclostomes, and the lowest
fishes. In most of the other Vertebrates the chorda is more or less
replaced by the cartilaginous tissue of the secondary perichorda that
grows round it. In the lower Craniotes (especially the fishes) a more
or less considerable part of the chorda is preserved in the bodies of
the vertebrae. In the mammals it disappears for the most part. By the
end of the second month in the human embryo the chorda is merely a
slender thread, running through the axis of the thick, cartilaginous
vertebral column (Figures 1.182 ch and 2.329 ch). In the cartilaginous
vertebral bodies themselves, which afterwards ossify, the slender
remnant of the chorda presently disappears (Figure 2.330 ch). But in
the elastic inter-vertebral disks, which develop from the skeletal
plate between each pair of vertebral bodies (Figure 2.329 li), a relic
of the chorda remains permanently. In the new-born child there is a
large pear-shaped cavity in each intervertebral disk, filled with a
gelatinous mass of cells (Figure 2.331 a). Though less sharply
defined, this gelatinous nucleus of the elastic cartilaginous disks
persists throughout life in the mammals, but in the birds and most
reptiles the last trace of the chorda disappears. In the subsequent
ossification of the cartilaginous vertebra the first deposit of bony
matter ("first osseous nucleus") takes place in the vertebral body
immediately round the remainder of the chorda, and soon displaces it
altogether. Then there is a special osseous nucleus formed in each
half of the vertebral arch. The ossification does not reach the point
at which the three nuclei are joined until after birth. In the first
year the two osseous halves of the arches unite; but it is much
later--in the second to the eighth year--that they connect with the
osseous vertebral bodies.

(FIGURE 2.336. Skeleton of the breast-fin of Ceratodus (biserial
feathered skeleton). A, B, cartilaginous series of the fin-stem. rr
cartilaginous fin-radii. (From Gunther.)

FIGURE 2.337. Skeleton of the breast-fin of an early Selachius
(Acanthias). The radii of the median fin-border (B) have disappeared
for the most part; a few only (R) are left. R, R, radii of the lateral
fin-border, mt metapterygium, ms mesopterygium, p propterygium. (From
Gegenbaur.)

FIGURE 2.338. Skeleton of the breast-fin of a young Selachius. The
radii of the median fin-border have wholly disappeared. The shaded
part on the right is the section that persists in the five-fingered
hand of the higher Vertebrates. (b the three basal pieces of the fin:
mt metapterygium, rudiment of the humerus, ms mesopterygium, p
propterygium.) (From Gegenbaur.))

The bony skull (cranium), the head-part of the secondary axial
skeleton, develops in just the same way as the vertebral column. The
skull forms a bony envelope for the brain, just as the vertebral canal
does for the spinal cord; and as the brain is only a peculiarly
differentiated part of the head, while the spinal cord represents the
longer trunk-section of the originally homogeneous medullary tube, we
shall expect to find that the osseous coat of the one is a special
modification of the osseous envelope of the other. When we examine the
adult human skull in itself (Figure 2.332), it is difficult to
conceive how it can be merely the modified fore part of the vertebral
column. It is an elaborate and extensive bony structure, composed of
no less than twenty bones of different shapes and sizes. Seven of them
form the spacious shell that surrounds the brain, in which we
distinguish the solid ventral base below and the curved dorsal vault
above. The other thirteen bones form the facial skull, which is
especially the bony envelope of the higher sense-organs, and at the
same time encloses the entrance of the alimentary canal. The lower jaw
is articulated at the base of the skull (usually regarded as the XXI
cranial bone). Behind the lower jaw we find the hyoid bone at the root
of the tongue, also formed from the gill-arches, and a part of the
lower arches that have developed as "head-ribs" from the ventral side
of the base of the cranium.

Although the fully-developed skull of the higher Vertebrates, with its
peculiar shape, its enormous size, and its complex composition, seems
to have nothing in common with the ordinary vertebrae, nevertheless
even the older comparative anatomists came to recognise at the end of
the eighteenth century that it is really nothing else originally than
a series of modified vertebrae. When Goethe in 1790 "picked up the
skull of a slain victim from the sand of the Jewish cemetery at
Venice, he noticed at once that the bones of the face also could be
traced to vertebrae (like the three hind-most cranial vertebrae)." And
when Oken (without knowing anything of Goethe's discovery) found at
Ilenstein, "a fine bleached skull of a hind, the thought flashed
across him like lightning: 'It is a vertebral column.'"

(FIGURE 2.339. Skeleton of the fore leg of an amphibian. h upper-arm
(humerus), ru lower arm (r radius, u ulna), rcicu apostrophe,
wrist-bones of first series (r radiale, i intermedium, c centrale, u
apostrophe ulnare). 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 wrist-bones of the second series.
(From Gegenbaur.)

FIGURE 2.340. Skeleton of gorilla's hand. (From Huxley.)

FIGURE 2.341. Skeleton of human hand, back. (From Meyer.))

This famous vertebral theory of the skull has interested the most
distinguished zoologists for more than a century: the chief
representatives of comparative anatomy have devoted their highest
powers to the solution of the problem, and the interest has spread far
beyond their circle. But it was not until 1872 that it was happily
solved, after seven years' labour, by the comparative anatomist who
surpassed all other experts of this science in the second half of the
nineteenth century by the richness of his empirical knowledge and the
acuteness and depth of his philosophic speculations. Carl Gegenbaur
has shown, in his classic Studies of the Comparative Anatomy of the
Vertebrates (third section), that we find the most solid foundation
for the vertebral theory of the skull in the head-skeleton of the
Selachii. Earlier anatomists had wrongly started from the mammal
skull, and had compared the several bones that compose it with the
several parts of the vertebra (Figure 2.333) they thought they could
prove in this way that the fully-formed mammal skull was made of from
three to six vertebrae.

The older theory was refuted by simple and obvious facts, which were
first pointed out by Huxley. Nevertheless, the fundamental idea of
it--the belief that the skull is formed from the head-part of the
perichordal axial skeleton, just as the brain is from the simple
medullary tube, by differentiation and modification--remained. The
work now was to discover the proper way of supplying this philosophic
theory with an empirical foundation, and it was reserved for Gegenbaur
to achieve this. He first opened out the phylogenetic path which here,
as in all morphological questions, leads most confidently to the goal.
He showed that the primitive fishes (Figures 2.249 to 2.251), the
ancestors of all the Gnathostomes, still preserve permanently in the
form of their skull the structure out of which the transformed skull
of the higher Vertebrates, including man, has been evolved. He further
showed that the branchial arches of the Selachii prove that their
skull originally consisted of a large number of (at least nine or ten)
provertebrae, and that the cerebral nerves that proceed from the base
of the brain entirely confirm this. These cerebral nerves are (with
the exception of the first and second pair, the olfactory and optic
nerves) merely modifications of spinal nerves, and are essentially
similar to them in their peripheral expansion. The comparative anatomy
of these cerebral nerves, their origin and their expansion, furnishes
one of the strongest arguments for the new vertebral theory of the
skull.

(FIGURE 2.342. Skeleton of the hand or fore foot of six mammals. I
man, II dog, III pig, IV ox, V tapir, VI horse. r radius, u ulna, a
scaphoideum, b lunare, a triquetrum, d trapezium, e trapezoid, f
capitatum, g hamatum, p pisiforme. 1 thumb, 2 index finger, 3 middle
finger, 4 ring finger, 5 little finger. (From Gegenbaur.))

We have not space here to go into the details of Gegenbaur's theory of
the skull. I must be content to refer the reader to the great work I
have mentioned, in which it is thoroughly established from the
empirico-philosophical point of view. He has also given a
comprehensive and up-to-date treatment of the subject in his
Comparative Anatomy of the Vertebrates (1898). Gegenbaur indicates as
original "cranial ribs," or "lower arches of the cranial vertebrae,"
at each side of the head of the Selachii (Figure 2.334), the following
pairs of arches: I and II, two lip-cartilages, the anterior (a) of
which is composed of an upper piece only, the posterior (bc) from an
upper and lower piece; III, the maxillary arches, also consisting of
two pieces on each side--the primitive upper jaw (os palato-quadratum,
o) and the primitive lower jaw (u); IV, the hyaloid bone (II);
finally, V to X, six branchial arches in the narrower sense (III to
VIII). From the anatomic features of these nine to ten cranial ribs or
"lower vertebral arches" and the cranial nerves that spread over them,
it is clear that the apparently simple cartilaginous primitive skull
of the Selachii was originally formed from so many (at least nine)
somites or provertebrae. The blending of these primitive segments into
a single capsule is, however, so ancient that, in virtue of the law of
curtailed heredity, the original division seems to have disappeared;
in the embryonic development it is very difficult to detect it in
isolated traces, and in some respects quite impossible. It is claimed
that several (three to six) traces of provertebrae have been
discovered in the anterior (pre-chordal) part of the Selachii-skull;
this would bring up the number of cranial somites to twelve or
sixteen, or even more.

(FIGURES 2.343 TO 2.345. Arm and hand of three anthropoids.

FIGURE 2.343. Chimpanzee (Anthropithecus niger).

FIGURE 2.344. Veddah of Ceylon (Homo veddalis).

FIGURE 2.345. European (Homo mediterraneus). (From Paul and Fritz
Sarasin.))

In the primitive skull of man (Figure 2.323) and the higher
Vertebrates, which has been evolved from that of the Selachii, five
consecutive sections are discoverable at a certain early period of
development, and one might be induced to trace these to five primitive
vertebrae; but these sections are due entirely to adaptation to the
five primitive cerebral vesicles, and correspond, like these, to a
large number of metamera. That we have in the primitive skull of the
mammals a greatly modified and transformed organ, and not at all a
primitive formation, is clear from the circumstance that its original
soft membranous form only assumes the cartilaginous character for the
most part at the base and the sides, and remains membranous at the
roof. At this part the bones of the subsequent osseous skull develop
as external coverings over the membranous structure, without an
intermediate cartilaginous stage, as there is at the base of the
skull. Thus a large part of the cranial bones develop originally as
covering bones from the corium, and only secondarily come into close
touch with the primitive skull (Figure 2.333). We have previously seen
how this very rudimentary beginning of the skull in man is formed
ontogenetically from the "head-plates," and thus the fore end of the
chorda is enclosed in the base of the skull. (Cf. Figs 1.145 and
Chapters 1.13 and 1.14.)

The phylogeny of the skull has made great progress during the last
three decades through the joint attainments of comparative anatomy,
ontogeny, and paleontology. By the judicious and comprehensive
application of the phylogenetic method (in the sense of Gegenbaur) we
have found the key to the great and important problems that arise from
the thorough comparative study of the skull. Another school of
research, the school of what is called "exact craniology" (in the
sense of Virchow), has, meantime, made fruitless efforts to obtain
this result. We may gratefully acknowledge all that this descriptive
school has done in the way of accurately describing the various forms
and measurements of the human skull, as compared with those of other
mammals. But the vast empirical material that it has accumulated in
its extensive literature is mere dead and sterile erudition until it
is vivified and illumined by phylogenetic speculation.

Virchow confined himself to the most careful analysis of large numbers
of human skulls and those of anthropoid mammals. He saw only the
differences between them, and sought to express these in figures.

Without adducing a single solid reason, or offering any alternative
explanation, he rejected evolution as an unproved hypothesis. He
played a most unfortunate part in the controversy as to the
significance of the fossil human skulls of Spy and Neanderthal, and
the comparison of them with the skull of the Pithecanthropus (Figure
2.283). All the interesting features of these skulls that clearly
indicated the transition from the anthropoid to the man were declared
by Virchow to be chance pathological variations. He said that the roof
of the skull of Pithecanthropus (Figure 2.335, 3) must have belonged
to an ape, because so pronounced an orbital stricture (the horizontal
constriction between the outer edge of the eye-orbit and the temples)
is not found in any human being. Immediately afterwards Nehring showed
in the skull of a Brazilian Indian (Figure 2.335, 2), found in the
Sambaquis of Santos, that this stricture can be even deeper in man
than in many of the apes. It is very instructive in this connection to
compare the roofs of the skulls (seen from above) of different
primates. I have, therefore, arranged nine such skulls in Figure
2.335, and reduced them to a common size.

(FIGURE 2.346. Transverse section of a fish's tail (from the tunny).
(From Johannes Muller.) a upper (dorsal) lateral muscles, a
apostrophe, b apostrophe lower (ventral) lateral muscles, d vertebral
bodies, b sections of incomplete conical mantle, B attachment lines of
the inter-muscular ligaments (from the side).)

We turn now to the branchial arches, which were regarded even by the
earlier natural philosophers as "head-ribs." (Cf. Figures 1.167 to
1.170). Of the four original gill-arches of the mammals the first lies
between the primitive mouth and the first gill-cleft. From the base of
this arch is formed the upper-jaw process, which joins with the inner
and outer nasal processes on each side, in the manner we have
previously explained, and forms the chief parts of the skeleton of the
upper jaw (palate bone, pterygoid bone, etc.) (Cf. Chapter 2.25.) The
remainder of the first branchial arch, which is now called, by way of
contrast, the "upper-jaw process," forms from its base two of the
ear-ossicles (hammer and anvil), and as to the rest is converted into
a long strip of cartilage that is known, after its discoverer, as
"Meckel's cartilage," or the promandibula. At the outer surface of the
latter is formed from the cellular matter of the corium, as covering
or accessory bone, the permanent bony lower jaw. From the first part
or base of the second branchial arch we get, in the mammals, the third
ossicle of the ear, the stirrup; and from the succeeding parts we get
(in this order) the muscle of the stirrup, the styloid process of the
temporal bone, the styloid-hyoid ligament, and the little horn of the
hyoid bone. The third branchial arch is only cartilaginous at the
foremost part, and here the body of the hyoid bone and its larger horn
are formed at each side by the junction of its two halves. The fourth
branchial arch is only found transitorily in the mammal embryo as a
rudimentary organ, and does not develop special parts; and there is no
trace in the embryo of the higher Vertebrates of the posterior
branchial arches (fifth and sixth pair), which are permanent in the
Selachii. They have been lost long ago. Moreover, the four gill-clefts
of the human embryo are only interesting as rudimentary organs, and
they soon close up and disappear. The first alone (between the first
and second branchial arches) has any permanent significance; from it
are developed the tympanic cavity and the Eustachian tube. (Cf.
Figures 1.169 and 2.320.)

It was Carl Gegenbaur again who solved the difficult problem of
tracing the skeleton of the limbs of the Vertebrates to a common type.
Few parts of the vertebrate body have undergone such infinitely varied
modifications in regard to size, shape, and adaptation of structure as
the limbs or extremities; yet we are in a position to reduce them all
to the same hereditary standard. We may generally distinguish three
groups among the Vertebrates in relation to the formation of their
limbs. The lowest and earliest Vertebrates, the Acrania and
Cyclostomes, had, like their invertebrate ancestors, no pairs of
limbs, as we see in the Amphioxus and the Cyclostomes to-day (Figures
2.210 and 2.247). The second group is formed of the two classes of the
true fishes and the Dipneusts; here there are always two pairs of
limbs at first, in the shape of many-toed fins--one pair of
breast-fins or fore legs, and one pair of belly-fins or hind legs
(Figures 2.248 to 2.259). The third group comprises the four higher
classes of Vertebrates--the amphibia, reptiles, birds, and mammals; in
these quadrupeds there are at first the same two pairs of limbs, but
in the shape of five-toed feet. Frequently we find less than five
toes, and sometimes the feet are wholly atrophied (as in the
serpents). But the original stem-form of the group had five toes or
fingers before and behind (Figures 2.263 to 2.265).

The true primitive form of the pairs of limbs, such as they were found
in the primitive fishes of the Silurian period, is preserved for us in
the Australian dipneust, the remarkable Ceratodus (Figure 2.257). Both
the breast-fin and the belly-fin are flat oval paddles, in which we
find a biserial cartilaginous skeleton (Figure 2.336). This consists,
firstly, of a much segmented fin-rod or "stem" (A, B), which runs
through the fin from base to tip; and secondly of a double row of thin
articulated fin-radii (r, r), which are attached to both sides of the
fin-rod, like the feathers of a feathered leaf. This primitive fin,
which Gegenbaur first recognised, is attached to the vertebral column
by a simple zone in the shape of a cartilaginous arch. It has probably
originated from the branchial arches.* (* While Gegenbaur derives the
fins from two pairs of posterior separated branchial arches, Balfour
holds that they have been developed from segments of a pair of
originally continuous lateral fins or folds of the skin.)

We find the same biserial primitive fin more or less preserved in the
fossilised remains of the earliest Selachii (Figure 2.248), Ganoids
(Figure 2.253), and Dipneusts (Figure 2.256). It is also found in
modified form in some of the actual sharks and pikes. But in the
majority of the Selachii it has already degenerated to the extent that
the radii on one side of the fin-rod have been partly or entirely
lost, and are retained only on the other (Figure 2.337). We thus get
the uniserial fin, which has been transmitted from the Selachii to the
rest of the fishes (Figure 2.338).

(FIGURE 2.347. Human skeleton. (Cf. Figure 2.326.)

FIGURE 2.348. Skeleton of the giant gorilla. (Cf. Figure 1.209.))

Gegenbaur has shown how the five-toed leg of the Amphibia, that has
been inherited by the three classes of Amniotes, was evolved from the
uniserial fish-fin.* (* The limb of the four higher classes of
Vertebrates is now explained in the sense that the original fin-rod
passes along its outer (ulnar or fibular) side, and ends in the fifth
toe. It was formerly believed to go along the inner (radial or tibial)
side, and end in the first toe, as Figure 2.339 shows.) In the
dipneust ancestors of the Amphibia the radii gradually atrophy, and
are lost, for the most part, on the other side of the fin-rod as well
(the lighter cartilages in Figure 2.338). Only the four lowest radii
(shaded in the illustration) are preserved; and these are the four
inner toes of the foot (first to fourth). The little or fifth toe is
developed from the lower end of the fin-rod. From the middle and upper
part of the fin-rod was developed the long stem of the limb--the
important radius and ulna (Figure 2.339 r and u) and humerus (h) of
the higher Vertebrates.

In this way the five-toed foot of the Amphibia, which we first meet in
the Carboniferous Stegocephala (Figure 2.260), and which was inherited
from them by the reptiles on one side and the mammals on the other,
was formed by gradual degeneration and differentiation from the
many-toed fish-fin (Figure 2.341). The reduction of the radii to four
was accompanied by a further differentiation of the fin-rod, its
transverse segmentation into upper and lower halves, and the formation
of the zone of the limb, which is composed originally of three limbs
before and behind in the higher Vertebrates. The simple arch of the
original shoulder-zone divides on each side into an upper (dorsal)
piece, the shoulder-blade (scapula), and a lower (ventral) piece; the
anterior part of the latter forms the primitive clavicle
(procoracoideum), and the posterior part the coracoideum. In the same
way the simple arch of the pelvic zone breaks up into an upper
(dorsal) piece, the iliac-bone (os ilium), and a lower (ventral)
piece; the anterior part of the latter forms the pubic bone (os
pubis), and the posterior the ischial bone (os ischii).

There is also a complete agreement between the fore and hind limb in
the stem or shaft. The first section of the stem is supported by a
single strong bone--the humerus in the fore, the femur in the hind
limb. The second section contains two bones: in front the radius (r)
and ulna (u), behind the tibia and fibula. (Cf. the skeletons in
Figures 2.260, 2.265, 2.270, 2.278 to 2.282, and 2.348.) The
succeeding numerous small bones of the wrist (carpus) and ankle
(tarsus) are also similarly arranged in the fore and hind extremities,
and so are the five bones of the middle-hand (metacarpus) and
middle-foot (metatarsus). Finally, it is the same with the toes
themselves, which have a similar characteristic composition from a
series of bony pieces before and behind. We find a complete parallel
in all the parts of the fore leg and the hind leg.

When we thus learn from comparative anatomy that the skeleton of the
human limbs is composed of just the same bones, put together in the
same way, as the skeleton in the four higher classes of Vertebrates,
we may at once infer a common descent of them from a single stem-form.
This stem-form was the earliest amphibian that had five toes on each
foot. It is particularly the outer parts of the limbs that have been
modified by adaptation to different conditions. We need only recall
the immense variations they offer within the mammal class. We have the
slender legs of the deer and the strong springing legs of the
kangaroo, the climbing feet of the sloth and the digging feet of the
mole, the fins of the whale and the wings of the bat. It will readily
be granted that these organs of locomotion differ as much in regard to
size, shape, and special function as can be conceived. Nevertheless,
the bony skeleton is substantially the same in every case. In the
different limbs we always find the same characteristic bones in
essentially the same rigidly hereditary connection; this is as
splendid a proof of the theory of evolution as comparative anatomy can
discover in any organ of the body. It is true that the skeleton of the
limbs of the various mammals undergoes many distortions and
degenerations besides the special adaptations (Figure 2.342). Thus we
find the first finger or the thumb atrophied in the fore-foot (or
hand) of the dog (II). It has entirely disappeared in the pig (III)
and tapir (V). In the ruminants (such as the ox, IV) the second and
fifth toes are also atrophied, and only the third and fourth are well
developed (VI, 3). Nevertheless, all these different fore-feet, as
well as the hand of the ape (Figure 2.340) and of man (Figure 2.341),
were originally developed from a common pentadactyle stem-form. This
is proved by the rudiments of the degenerated toes, and by the
similarity of the arrangement of the wrist-bones in all the pentanomes
(Figure 2.342 a to p).

If we candidly compare the bony skeleton of the human arm and hand
with that of the nearest anthropoid apes, we find an almost perfect
identity. This is especially true of the chimpanzee. In regard to the
proportions of the various parts, the lowest living races of men (the
Veddahs of Ceylon, Figure 2.344) are midway between the chimpanzee
(Figure 2.343) and the European (Figure 2.345). More considerable are
the differences in structure and the proportions of the various parts
between the different genera of anthropoid apes (Figures 2.278 to
2.282); and still greater is the morphological distance between these
and the lowest apes (the Cynopitheca). Here, again, impartial and
thorough anatomic comparison confirms the accuracy of Huxley's
pithecometra principle (Chapter 1.15).

The complete unity of structure which is thus revealed by the
comparative anatomy of the limbs is fully confirmed by their
embryology. However different the extremities of the four-footed
Craniotes may be in their adult state, they all develop from the same
rudimentary structure. In every case the first trace of the limb in
the embryo is a very simple protuberance that grows out of the side of
the hyposoma. These simple structures develop directly into fins in
the fishes and Dipneusts by differentiation of their cells. In the
higher classes of Vertebrates each of the four takes the shape in its
further growth of a leaf with a stalk, the inner half becoming
narrower and thicker and the outer half broader and thinner. The inner
half (the stalk of the leaf) then divides into two sections--the upper
and lower parts of the limb. Afterwards four shallow indentations are
formed at the free edge of the leaf, and gradually deepen; these are
the intervals between the five toes (Figure 1.174). The toes soon make
their appearance. But at first all five toes, both of fore and hind
feet, are connected by a thin membrane like a swimming-web; they
remind us of the original shaping of the foot as a paddling fin. The
further development of the limbs from this rudimentary structure takes
place in the same way in all the Vertebrates according to the laws of
heredity.

The embryonic development of the muscles, or ACTIVE organs of
locomotion, is not less interesting than that of the skeleton, or
PASSIVE organs. But the comparative anatomy and ontogeny of the
muscular system are much more difficult and inaccessible, and
consequently have hitherto been less studied. We can therefore only
draw some general phylogenetic conclusions therefrom.

It is incontestable that the musculature of the Vertebrates has been
evolved from that of lower Invertebrates; and among these we have to
consider especially the unarticulated Vermalia. They have a simple
cutaneous muscular layer, developing from the mesoderm. This was
afterwards replaced by a pair of internal lateral muscles, that
developed from the middle wall of the coelom-pouches; we still find
the first rudiments of the muscles arising from the muscle-plate of
these in the embryos of all the Vertebrates (cf. Figures 1.124, 1.158
to 1.160, 2.222 to 2.224 mp). In the unarticulated stem-forms of the
Chordonia, which we have called the Prochordonia, the two
coelom-pouches, and therefore also the muscle-plates of their walls,
were not yet segmented. A great advance was made in the articulation
of them, as we have followed it step by step in the Amphioxus (Figures
1.124 and 1.158). This segmentation of the muscles was the momentous
historical process with which vertebration, and the development of the
vertebrate stem, began. The articulation of the skeleton came after
this segmentation of the muscular system, and the two entered into
very close correlation.

The episomites or dorsal coelom-pouches of the Acrania, Cyclostomes,
and Selachii (Figure 1.161 h) first develop from their inner or median
wall (from the cell-layer that lies directly on the skeletal plate
[sk] and the medullary tube [nr]) a strong muscle-plate (mp). By
dorsal growth (w) it also reaches the external wall of the
coelom-pouches, and proceeds from the dorsal to the ventral wall. From
these segmental muscle-plates, which are chiefly concerned in the
segmentation of the Vertebrates, proceed the lateral muscles of the
stem, as we find in the simplest form in the Amphioxus (Figure 2.210).
By the formation of a horizontal frontal septum they divide on each
side into an upper and lower series of myotomes, dorsal and ventral
lateral muscles. This is seen with typical regularity in the
transverse section of the tail of a fish (Figure 2.346). From these
earlier lateral muscles of the trunk develop the greater part of the
subsequent muscles of the trunk, and also the much later "muscular
buds" of the limbs.* (* The ontogeny of the muscles is mostly
cenogenetic. The greater part of the muscles of the head (or the
visceral muscles) belong originally to the hyposoma of the vertebrate
organism, and develop from the wall of the hyposomites or ventral
coelom-pouches. This also applies originally to the primary muscles of
the limbs, as these too belong phylogenetically to the hyposoma. (Cf.
Chapter 1.14))


CHAPTER 2.27. THE EVOLUTION OF THE ALIMENTARY SYSTEM.

The chief of the vegetal organs of the human frame, to the evolution
of which we now turn our attention, is the alimentary canal. The gut
is the oldest of all the organs of the metazoic body, and it leads us
back to the earliest age of the formation of organs--to the first
section of the Laurentian period. As we have already seen, the result
of the first division of labour among the homogeneous cells of the
earliest multicellular animal body was the formation of an alimentary
cavity. The first duty and first need of every organism is
self-preservation. This is met by the functions of the nutrition and
the covering of the body. When, therefore, in the primitive globular
Blastaea the homogeneous cells began to effect a division of labour,
they had first to meet this twofold need. One half were converted into
alimentary cells and enclosed a digestive cavity, the gut. The other
half became covering cells, and formed an envelope round the
alimentary tube and the whole body. Thus arose the primary germinal
layers--the inner, alimentary, or vegetal layer, and the outer,
covering, or animal layer. (Cf. Chapter 2.19.)

When we try to construct an animal frame of the simplest conceivable
type, that has some such primitive alimentary canal and the two
primary layers constituting its wall, we inevitably come to the very
remarkable embryonic form of the gastrula, which we have found with
extraordinary persistence throughout the whole range of animals, with
the exception of the unicellulars--in the Sponges, Cnidaria, Platodes,
Vermalia, Molluscs, Articulates, Echinoderms, Tunicates, and
Vertebrates. In all these stems the gastrula recurs in the same very
simple form. It is certainly a remarkable fact that the gastrula is
found in various animals as a larva-stage in their individual
development, and that this gastrula, though much disguised by
cenogenetic modifications, has everywhere essentially the same
palingenetic structure (Figures 1.30 to 1.35). The elaborate
alimentary canal of the higher animals develops ontogenetically from
the same simple primitive gut of the gastrula.

This gastraea theory is now accepted by nearly all zoologists. It was
first supported and partly modified by Professor Ray-Lankester; he
proposed three years afterwards (in his essay on the development of
the Molluscs, 1875) to give the name of archenteron to the primitive
gut and blastoporus to the primitive mouth.

Before we follow the development of the human alimentary canal in
detail, it is necessary to say a word about the general features of
its composition in the fully-developed man. The mature alimentary
canal in man is constructed in all its main features like that of all
the higher mammals, and particularly resembles that of the
Catarrhines, the narrow-nosed apes of the Old World. The entrance into
it, the mouth, is armed with thirty-two teeth, fixed in rows in the
upper and lower jaws. As we have seen, our dentition is exactly the
same as that of the Catarrhines, and differs from that of all other
animals (Chapter 2.23). Above the mouth-cavity is the double nasal
cavity; they are separated by the palate-wall. But we saw that this
separation is not there from the first, and that originally there is a
common mouth-nasal cavity in the embryo; and this is only divided
afterwards by the hard palate into two--the nasal cavity above and
that of the mouth below (Figure 2.311).

At the back the cavity of the mouth is half closed by the vertical
curtain that we call the soft palate, in the middle of which is the
uvula. A glance into a mirror with the mouth wide open will show its
shape. The uvula is interesting because, besides man, it is only found
in the ape. At each side of the soft palate are the tonsils. Through
the curved opening that we find underneath the soft palate we
penetrate into the gullet or pharynx behind the mouth-cavity. Into
this opens on either side a narrow canal (the Eustachian tube),
through which there is direct communication with the tympanic cavity
of the ear (Figure 2.320 e). The pharynx is continued in a long,
narrow tube, the oesophagus (sr). By this the food passes into the
stomach when masticated and swallowed. Into the gullet also opens,
right above, the trachea (lr), that leads to the lungs. The entrance
to it is covered by the epiglottis, over which the food slides. The
cartilaginous epiglottis is found only in the mammals, and has
developed from the fourth branchial arch of the fishes and amphibia.
The lungs are found, in man and all the mammals, to the right and left
in the pectoral cavity, with the heart between them. At the upper end
of the trachea there is, under the epiglottis, a specially
differentiated part, strengthened by a cartilaginous skeleton, the
larynx. This important organ of human speech also develops from a part
of the alimentary canal. In front of the larynx is the thyroid gland,
which sometimes enlarges and forms goitre.

The oesophagus descends into the pectoral cavity along the vertebral
column, behind the lungs and the heart, pierces the diaphragm, and
enters the visceral cavity. The diaphragm is a membrano-muscular
partition that completely separates the thoracic from the abdominal
cavity in all the mammals (and these alone). This separation is not
found in the beginning; there is at first a common breast-belly
cavity, the coeloma or pleuro-peritoneal cavity. The diaphragm is
formed later on as a muscular horizontal partition between the
thoracic and abdominal cavities. It then completely separates the two
cavities, and is only pierced by several organs that pass from the one
to the other. One of the chief of these organs is the oesophagus.
After this has passed through the diaphragm, it expands into the
gastric sac in which digestion chiefly takes place. The stomach of the
adult man (Figure 2.349) is a long, somewhat oblique sac, expanding on
the left into a blind sac, the fundus of the stomach (b apostrophe),
but narrowing on the right, and passing at the pylorus (e) into the
small intestine. At this point there is a valve, the pyloric valve
(d), between the two sections of the canal; it opens only when the
pulpy food passes from the stomach into the intestine. In man and the
higher Vertebrates the stomach itself is the chief organ of digestion,
and is especially occupied with the solution of the food; this is not
the case in many of the lower Vertebrates, which have no stomach, and
discharge its function by a part of the gut farther on. The muscular
wall of the stomach is comparatively thick; it has externally strong
muscles that accomplish the digestive movements, and internally a
large quantity of small glands, the peptic glands, which secrete the
gastric juice.

(FIGURE 2.349. Human stomach and duodenum, longitudinal section. a
cardiac (end of oesophagus), b fundus (blind sac of the left side), c
pylorus-fold, d pylorus-valves, e pylorus-cavity, fgh duodenum, i
entrance of the gall-duct and the pancreatic duct. (From Meyer.)

FIGURE 2.350. Median section of the head of a hare-embryo, one-fourth
of an inch in length. (From Mihalcovics.) The deep mouth-cleft (hp) is
separated by the membrane of the throat (rh) from the blind cavity of
the head-gut (kd). hz heart, ch chorda, hp the point at which the
hypophysis develops from the mouth-cleft, vh ventricle of the
cerebrum, v3, third ventricle (intermediate brain), v4 fourth
ventricle (hind brain), ck spinal canal.)

Next to the stomach comes the longest section of the alimentary canal,
the middle gut or small intestine. Its chief function is to absorb the
peptonised fluid mass of food, or the chyle, and it is subdivided into
several sections, of which the first (next to the stomach) is called
the duodenum (Figure 2.349 fgh). It is a short, horseshoe-shaped loop
of the gut. The largest glands of the alimentary canal open into
it--the liver, the chief digestive gland, that secretes the gall, and
the pancreas, which secretes the pancreatic juice. The two glands pour
their secretions, the bile and pancreatic juice, close together into
the duodenum (i). The opening of the gall-duct is of particular
phylogenetic importance, as it is the same in all the Vertebrates, and
indicates the principal point of the hepatic or trunk-gut (Gegenbaur).
The liver, phylogenetically older than the stomach, is a large gland,
rich in blood, in the adult man, immediately under the diaphragm on
the left side, and separated by it from the lungs. The pancreas lies a
little further back and more to the left. The remaining part of the
small intestine is so long that it has to coil itself in many folds in
order to find room in the narrow space of the abdominal cavity. It is
divided into the jejunum above and the ileum below. In the last
section of it is the part of the small intestine at which in the
embryo the yelk-sac opens into the gut. This long and thin intestine
then passes into the large intestine, from which it is cut off by a
special valve. Immediately behind this "Bauhin-valve" the first part
of the large intestine forms a wide, pouch-like structure, the caecum.
The atrophied end of the caecum is the famous rudimentary organ, the
vermiform appendix. The large intestine (colon) consists of three
parts--an ascending part on the right, a transverse middle part, and a
descending part on the left. The latter finally passes through an
S-shaped bend into the last section of the alimentary canal, the
rectum, which opens behind by the anus. Both the large and small
intestines are equipped with numbers of small glands, which secrete
mucous and other fluids.

For the greater part of its length the alimentary canal is attached to
the inner dorsal surface of the abdominal cavity, or to the lower
surface of the vertebral column. The fixing is accomplished by means
of the thin membranous plate that we call the mesentery.

Although the fully-formed alimentary canal is thus a very elaborate
organ, and although in detail it has a quantity of complex structural
features into which we cannot enter here, nevertheless the whole
complicated structure has been historically evolved from the very
simple form of the primitive gut that we find in our
gastraead-ancestors, and that every gastrula brings before us to-day.
We have already pointed out (Chapter 1.9) how the epigastrula of the
mammals (Figure 1.67) can be reduced to the original type of the
bell-gastrula, which is now preserved by the amphioxus alone (Figure
1.35). Like the latter, the human gastrula and that of all other
mammals must be regarded as the ontogenetic reproduction of the
phylogenetic form that we call the Gastraea, in which the whole body
is nothing but a double-walled gastric sac.

We already know from embryology the manner in which the gut develops
in the embryo of man and the other mammals. From the gastrula is first
formed the spherical embryonic vesicle filled with fluid
(gastrocystis, Figure 1.106). In the dorsal wall of this the
sole-shaped embryonic shield is developed, and on the under-side of
this a shallow groove appears in the middle line, the first trace of
the later, secondary alimentary tube. The gut-groove becomes deeper
and deeper, and its edges bend towards each other, and finally form a
tube.

As we have seen, this simple cylindrical gut-tube is at first
completely closed before and behind in man and in the Vertebrates
generally (Figure 1.148); the permanent openings of the alimentary
canal, the mouth and anus, are only formed later on, and from the
outer skin. A mouth-pit appears in the skin in front (Figure 2.350
hp), and this grows towards the blind fore-end of the cavity of the
head-gut (kd), and at length breaks into it. In the same way a shallow
anus-pit is formed in the skin behind, which grows deeper and deeper,
advances towards the blind hinder end of the pelvic gut, and at last
connects with it. There is at first, both before and behind, a thin
partition between the external cutaneous pit and the blind end of the
gut--the throat-membrane in front and the anus-membrane behind; these
disappear when the connection takes place.

Directly in front of the anus-opening the allantois develops from the
hind gut; this is the important embryonic structure that forms into
the placenta in the Placentals (including man). In this more advanced
form the human alimentary canal (and that of all the other mammals) is
a slightly bent, cylindrical tube, with an opening at each end, and
two appendages growing from its lower wall: the anterior one is the
umbilical vesicle or yelk-sac, and the posterior the allantois or
urinary sac (Figure 1.195).

The thin wall of this simple alimentary tube and its ventral
appendages is found, on microscopic examination, to consist of two
strata of cells. The inner stratum, lining the entire cavity, consists
of larger and darker cells, and is the gut-gland layer. The outer
stratum consists of smaller and lighter cells, and is the gut-fibre
layer. The only exception is in the cavities of the mouth and anus,
because these originate from the skin. The inner coat of the
mouth-cavity is not provided by the gut-gland layer, but by the
skin-sense layer; and its muscular substratum is provided, not by the
gut-fibre, but the skin-fibre, layer. It is the same with the wall of
the small anus-cavity.

If it is asked how these constituent layers of the primitive gut-wall
are related to the various tissues and organs that we find afterwards
in the fully-developed system, the answer is very simple. It can be
put in a single sentence. The epithelium of the gut--that is to say,
the internal soft stratum of cells that lines the cavity of the
alimentary canal and all its appendages, and is immediately occupied
with the processes of nutrition--is formed solely from the gut-gland
layer; all other tissues and organs that belong to the alimentary
canal and its appendages originate from the gut-fibre layer. From the
latter is also developed the whole of the outer envelope of the gut
and its appendages; the fibrous connective tissue and the smooth
muscles that compose its muscular layer, the cartilages that support
it (such as the cartilages of the larynx and the trachea), the
blood-vessels and lymph-vessels that absorb the nutritive fluid from
the intestines--in a word, all that there is in the alimentary system
besides the epithelium of the gut. From the same layer we also get the
whole of the mesentery, with all the organs embedded in it--the heart,
the large blood-vessels of the body, etc.

(FIGURE 2.351. Scales or cutaneous teeth of a shark (Centrophorus
calceus). A three-pointed tooth rises obliquely on each of the
quadrangular bony plates that lie in the corium. (From Gegenbaur.))

Let us now leave this original structure of the mammal gut for a
moment, in order to compare it with the alimentary canal of the lower
Vertebrates, and of those Invertebrates that we have recognised as
man's ancestors. We find, first of all, in the lowest Metazoa, the
Gastraeads, that the gut remains permanently in the very simple form
in which we find it transitorily in the palingenetic gastrula of the
other animals; it is thus in the Gastremaria (Pemmatodiscus), the
Physemaria (Prophysema), the simplest Sponges (Olynthus), the
freshwater Polyps (Hydra), and the ascula-embryos of many other
Coelenteria (Figures 2.233 to 2.238). Even in the simplest forms of
the Platodes, the Rhabdocoela (Figure 2.240), the gut is still a
simple straight tube, lined with the entoderm; but with the important
difference that in this case its single opening, the primitive mouth
(m), has formed a muscular gullet (sd) by invagination of the skin.

(FIGURE 2.352. Gut of a human embryo, one-sixth of an inch long,
magnified fifteen times. (From His. Showing: Epiglottis, Tongue,
Hypophysis, Hepatic duct, Tail, Allantoic duct, Tail-gut, Umbilical
cord, Larynx, Rudimentary lungs, Stomach, Pancreas, Bladder, Wolffian
duct, Rudimentary kidneys.))

We have the same simple form in the gut of the lowest Vermalia
(Gastrotricha, Figure 2.242, Nematodes, Sagitta, etc.). But in these a
second important opening of the gut has been formed at the opposite
end to the mouth, the anus (Figure 2.242 a).

We see a great advance in the structure of the vermalian gut in the
remarkable Balanoglossus (Figure 2.245), the sole survivor of the
Enteropneust class. Here we have the first appearance of the division
of the alimentary tube into two sections that characterises the
Chordonia. The fore half, the head-gut (cephalogaster), becomes the
organ of respiration (branchial gut, Figure 2.245 k); the hind half,
the trunk-gut (truncogaster), alone acts as digestive organ (hepatic
gut, d). The differentiation of these two parts of the gut in the
Enteropneust is just the same as in all the Tunicates and Vertebrates.

It is particularly interesting and instructive in this connection to
compare the Enteropneusts with the Ascidia and the Amphioxus (Figures
2.220 and 2.210)--the remarkable animals that form the connecting link
between the Invertebrates and the Vertebrates. In both forms the gut
is of substantially the same construction; the anterior section forms
the respiratory branchial gut, the posterior the digestive hepatic
gut. In both it develops palingenetically from the primitive gut of
the gastrula, and in both the hinder end of the medullary tube covers
the primitive mouth to such an extent that the remarkable medullary
intestinal duct is formed, the passing communication between the
neural and intestinal tubes (canalis neurentericus, Figures 1.83 and
1.85 ne). In the vicinity of the closed primitive mouth, possibly in
its place, the later anus is developed. In the same way the mouth is a
fresh formation in the Amphioxus and the Ascidia. It is the same with
the human mouth and that of the Craniotes generally. The secondary
formation of the mouth in the Chordonia is probably connected with the
development of the gill-clefts which are formed in the gut-wall
immediately behind the mouth. In this way the anterior section of the
gut is converted into a respiratory organ. I have already pointed out
that this modification is distinctive of the Vertebrates and
Tunicates. The phylogenetic appearance of the gill-clefts indicates
the commencement of a new epoch in the stem-history of the
Vertebrates.

In the further ontogenetic development of the alimentary canal in the
human embryo the appearance of the gill-clefts is the most important
process. At a very early stage the gullet-wall joins with the external
body-wall in the head of the human embryo, and this is followed by the
formation of four clefts, which lead directly into the gullet from
without, on the right and left sides of the neck, behind the mouth.
These are the gill or gullet clefts, and the partitions that separate
them are the gill or gullet-arches (Figure 1.171). These are most
interesting embryonic structures. They show us that all the higher
Vertebrates reproduce in their earlier stages, in harmony with the
biogenetic law, the process that had so important a part in the rise
of the whole Chordonia-stem. This process was the differentiation of
the gut into two sections--an anterior respiratory section, the
branchial gut, that was restricted to breathing, and a posterior
digestive section, the hepatic gut. As we find this highly
characteristic differentiation of the gut into two different sections
in all the Vertebrates and all the Tunicates, we may conclude that it
was also found in their common ancestors, the Prochordonia--especially
as even the Enteropneusts have it. (Cf. Chapters 1.12, 1.14 and 2.20,
and Figures 2.210, 2.220, 2.245.) It is entirely wanting in all the
other Invertebrates.

(FIGURE 2.353. Gut of a dog-embryo (shown in Figure 1.202, from
Bischoff), seen from the ventral side, a gill-arches (four pairs), b
rudiments of pharynx and larynx, c lungs, d stomach, f liver, g walls
of the open yelk-sac (into which the middle gut opens with a wide
aperture), h rectum.

FIGURE 2.354. The same gut seen from the right. a lungs, b stomach, c
liver, d yelk-sac, e rectum.)

There is at first only one pair of gill-clefts in the Amphioxus, as in
the Ascidia and Enteropneusts; and the Copelata (Figure 2.225) have
only one pair throughout life. But the number presently increases in
the former. In the Craniotes, however, it decreases still further. The
Cyclostomes have six to eight pairs (Figure 2.247); some of the
Selachii six or seven pairs, most of the fishes only four or five
pairs. In the embryo of man, and the higher Vertebrates generally,
where they make an appearance at an early stage, only three or four
pairs are developed. In the fishes they remain throughout life, and
form an exit for the water taken in at the mouth (Figures 2.249 to
2.251). But they are partly lost in the amphibia, and entirely in the
higher Vertebrates. In these nothing is left but a relic of the first
gill-cleft. This is formed into a part of the organ of hearing; from
it are developed the external meatus, the tympanic cavity, and the
Eustachian tube. We have already considered these remarkable
structures, and need only point here to the interesting fact that our
middle and external ear is a modified inheritance from the fishes. The
branchial arches also, which separate the clefts, develop into very
different parts. In the fishes they remain gill-arches, supporting the
respiratory gill-leaves. It is the same with the lowest amphibia, but
in the higher amphibia they undergo various modifications; and in the
three higher classes of Vertebrates (including man) the hyoid bone and
the ossicles of the ear develop from them. (Cf. Chapter 2.25.)

(FIGURE 2.355. Median section of the head of a Petromyzon-larva. (From
Gegenbaur,) h hypobranchial groove (above it in the gullet we see the
internal openings of the seven gill-clefts), v velum, o mouth, c
heart, a auditory vesicle, n neural tube, ch chorda.)

From the first gill-arch, from the inner surface of which the muscular
tongue proceeds, we get the first structure of the maxillary
skeleton--the upper and lower jaws, which surround the mouth and
support the teeth. These important parts are wholly wanting in the two
lowest classes of Vertebrates, the Acrania and Cyclostoma. They appear
first in the earliest Selachii (Figures 2.248 to 2.251), and have been
transmitted from this stem-group of the Gnathostomes to the higher
Vertebrates. Hence the original formation of the skeleton of the mouth
can be traced to these primitive fishes, from which we have inherited
it. The teeth are developed from the skin that clothes the jaws. As
the whole mouth cavity originates from the outer integument (Figure
2.350), the teeth also must come from it. As a fact, this is found to
be the case on microscopic examination of the development and finer
structure of the teeth. The scales of the fishes, especially of the
shark type (Figure 2.351), are in the same position as their teeth in
this respect (Figure 2.252). The osseous matter of the tooth (dentine)
develops from the corium; its enamel covering is a secretion of the
epidermis that covers the corium. It is the same with the cutaneous
teeth or placoid scales of the Selachii. At first the whole of the
mouth was armed with these cutaneous teeth in the Selachii and in the
earliest amphibia. Afterwards the formation of them was restricted to
the edges of the jaws.

Hence our human teeth are, in relation to their original source,
modified fish-scales. For the same reason we must regard the salivary
glands, which open into the mouth, as epidermic glands, as they are
formed, not from the glandular layer of the gut like the rest of the
alimentary glands, but from the epidermis, from the horny plate of the
outer germinal layer. Naturally, in harmony with this evolution of the
mouth, the salivary glands belong genetically to one series with the
sudoriferous, sebaceous, and mammary glands.

Thus the human alimentary canal is as simple as the primitive gut of
the gastrula in its original structure. Later it resembles the gut of
the earliest Vermalia (Gastrotricha). It then divides into two
sections, a fore or branchial gut and a hind or hepatic gut, like the
alimentary canal of the Balanoglossus, the Ascidia, and the Amphioxus.
The formation of the jaws and the branchial arches changes it into a
real fish-gut (Selachii). But the branchial gut, the one reminiscence
of our fish-ancestors, is afterwards atrophied as such. The parts of
it that remain are converted into entirely different structures.

(FIGURE 2.356. Transverse section of the head of a Petromyzon-larva.
(From Gegenbaur.) Beneath the pharynx (d) we see the hypobranchial
groove; above it the chorda and neural tube. A, B, C stages of
constriction.)

But, although the anterior section of our alimentary canal thus
entirely loses its original character of branchial gut, it retains the
physiological character of respiratory gut. We are now astonished to
find that the permanent respiratory organ of the higher Vertebrates,
the air-breathing lung, is developed from this first part of the
alimentary canal. Our lungs, trachea, and larynx are formed from the
ventral wall of the branchial gut. The whole of the respiratory
apparatus, which occupies the greater part of the pectoral cavity in
the adult man, is at first merely a small pair of vesicles or sacs,
which grow out of the floor of the head-gut immediately behind the
gills (Figures 2.354 C, 1.147 l). These vesicles are found in all the
Vertebrates except the two lowest classes, the Acrania and
Cyclostomes. In the lower Vertebrates they do not develop into lungs,
but into a large air-filled bladder, which occupies a good deal of the
body-cavity and has a quite different purport. It serves, not for
breathing, but to effect swimming movements up and down, and so is a
sort of hydrostatic apparatus--the floating bladder of the fishes
(nectocystis, Chapter 2.21). However, the human lungs, and those of
all air-breathing Vertebrates, develop from the same simple vesicular
appendage of the head-gut that becomes the floating bladder in the
fishes.

At first this bladder has no respiratory function, but merely acts as
hydrostatic apparatus for the purpose of increasing or lessening the
specific gravity of the body. The fishes, which have a fully-developed
floating bladder, can press it together, and thus condense the air it
contains. The air also escapes sometimes from the alimentary canal,
through an air-duct that connects the floating bladder with the
pharynx, and is ejected by the mouth. This lessens the size of the
bladder, and so the fish becomes heavier and sinks. When it wishes to
rise again, the bladder is expanded by relaxing the pressure. In many
of the Crossopterygii the wall of the bladder is covered with bony
plates, as in the Triassic Undina (Figure 2.254).

This hydrostatic apparatus begins in the Dipneusts to change into a
respiratory organ; the blood-vessels in the wall of the bladder now no
longer merely secrete air themselves, but also take in fresh air
through the air-duct. This process reaches its full development in the
Amphibia. In these the floating bladder has turned into lungs, and the
air-passage into a trachea. The lungs of the Amphibia have been
transmitted to the three higher classes of Vertebrates. In the lowest
Amphibia the lungs on either side are still very simple transparent
sacs with thin walls, as in the common water-salamander, the Triton.
It still entirely resembles the floating bladder of the fishes. It is
true that the Amphibia have two lungs, right and left. But the
floating bladder is also double in many of the fishes (such as the
early Ganoids), and divides into right and left halves. On the other
hand, the lung is single in Ceratodus (Figure 2.257).

(FIGURE 2.357. Thoracic and abdominal viscera of a human embryo of
twelve weeks, natural size, (From Kolliker.) The head is omitted.
Ventral and pectoral walls are removed. The greater part of the
body-cavity is taken up with the liver, from the middle part of which
the caecum and the vermiform appendix protrude. Above the diaphragm,
in the middle, is the conical heart; to the right and left of it are
the two small lungs.)

In the human embryo and that of all the other Amniotes the lungs
develop from the hind part of the ventral wall of the head-gut (Figure
1.149). Immediately behind the single structure of the thyroid gland a
median groove, the rudiment of the trachea, is detached from the
gullet. From its hinder end a couple of vesicles develop--the simple
tubular rudiments of the right and left lungs. They afterwards
increase considerably in size, fill the greater part of the thoracic
cavity, and take the heart between them. Even in the frogs we find
that the simple sac has developed into a spongy body of peculiar
froth-like tissue. The originally short connection of the pulmonary
sacs with the head-gut extends into a long, thin tube. This is the
wind-pipe (trachea); it opens into the gullet above, and divides below
into two branches which go to the two lungs. In the wall of the
trachea circular cartilages develop, and these keep it open. At its
upper end, underneath its pharyngeal opening, the larynx is
formed--the organ of voice and speech. The larynx is found at various
stages of development in the Amphibia, and comparative anatomists are
in a position to trace the progressive growth of this important organ
from the rudimentary structure of the lower Amphibia up to the
elaborate and delicate vocal apparatus that we have in the larynx of
man and of the birds.

We must refer here to an interesting rudimentary organ of the
respiratory gut, the thyroid gland, the large gland in front of the
larynx, that lies below the "Adam's apple," and is often especially
developed in the male sex. It has a certain function--not yet fully
understood--in the nutrition of the body, and arises in the embryo by
constriction from the lower wall of the pharynx. In many mining
districts the thyroid gland is peculiarly liable to morbid
enlargement, and then forms goitre, a growth that hangs at the front
of the neck. But it is much more interesting phylogenetically. As
Wilhelm Muller, of Jena, has shown, this rudimentary organ is the last
relic of the hypobranchial groove, which we considered in a previous
chapter, and which runs in the middle line of the gill-crate in the
Ascidia and Amphioxus, and conveys food to the stomach. (Cf. Chapter
2.16, Figure 2.246). We still find it in its original character in the
larvae of the Cyclostomes (Figures 2.355 and 2.356).

The second section of the alimentary canal, the trunk or hepatic gut,
undergoes not less important modifications among our vertebrate
ancestors than the first section. In tracing the further development
of this digestive part of the gut, we find that most complex and
elaborate organs originate from a very rudimentary original structure.
For clearness we may divide the digestive gut into three sections: the
fore gut (with oesophagus and stomach), the middle gut (duodenum, with
liver, pancreas, jejunum, and ileum, and the hind gut (colon and
rectum). Here again we find vesicular growths or appendages of the
originally simple gut developing into a variety of organs. Two of
these embryonic structures, the yelk-sac and allantois, are already
known to us. The two large glands that open into the duodenum, the
liver and pancreas, are growths from the middle and most important
part of the trunk-gut.

Immediately behind the vesicular rudiments of the lungs comes the
section of the alimentary canal that forms the stomach (Figures 2.353
d and 2.354 b). This sac-shaped organ, which is chiefly responsible
for the solution and digestion of the food, has not in the lower
Vertebrates the great physiological importance and the complex
character that it has in the higher. In the Acrania and Cyclostomes
and the earlier fishes we can scarcely distinguish a real stomach; it
is represented merely by the short piece from the branchial to the
hepatic gut. In some of the other fishes also the stomach is only a
very simple spindle-shaped enlargement at the beginning of the
digestive section of the gut, running straight from front to back in
the median plane of the body, underneath the vertebral column. In the
mammals its first structure is just as rudimentary as it is
permanently in the preceding. But its various parts soon begin to
develop. As the left side of the spindle-shaped sac grows much more
quickly than the right, and as it turns considerably on its axis at
the same time, it soon comes to lie obliquely. The upper end is more
to the left, and the lower end more to the right. The foremost end
draws up into the longer and narrower canal of the oesophagus.
Underneath this on the left the blind sac (fundus) of the stomach
bulges out, and thus the later form gradually develops (Figures 2.349
and 1.184 e). The original longitudinal axis becomes oblique, sinking
below to the left and rising to the right, and approaches nearer and
nearer to a transverse position. In the outer layer of the
stomach-wall the powerful muscles that accomplish the digestive
movements develop from the gut-fibre layer. In the inner layer a
number of small glandular tubes are formed from the gut-gland layer;
these are the peptic glands that secrete the gastric juice. At the
lower end of the gastric sac is developed the valve that separates it
from the duodenum (the pylorus, Figure 2.349 d).

Underneath the stomach there now develops the disproportionately long
stretch of the small intestine. The development of this section is
very simple, and consists essentially in an extremely rapid and
considerable growth lengthways. It is at first very short, quite
straight, and simple. But immediately behind the stomach we find at an
early stage a horseshoe-shaped bend and loop of the gut, in connection
with the severance of the alimentary canal from the yelk-sac and the
development of the first mesentery. The thin delicate membrane that
fastens this loop to the ventral side of the vertebral column, and
fills the inner bend of the horseshoe formation, is the first rudiment
of the mesentery (Figure 1.147 g). We find at an early stage a
considerable growth of the small intestine; it is thus forced to coil
itself in a number of loops. The various sections that we have to
distinguish in it are differentiated in a very simple way--the
duodenum (next to the stomach), the succeeding long jejunum, and the
last section of the small intestine, the ileum.

From the duodenum are developed the two large glands that we have
already mentioned--the liver and pancreas. The liver appears first in
the shape of two small sacs, that are found to the right and left
immediately behind the stomach (Figures 2.353 f, and 2.354 c). In many
of the lower Vertebrates they remain separate for a long time (in the
Myxinoides throughout life), or are only imperfectly joined. In the
higher Vertebrates they soon blend more or less completely to form a
single large organ. The growth of the liver is very brisk at first. In
the human embryo it grows so much in the second month of development
that in the third it occupies by far the greater part of the
body-cavity (Figure 2.357). At first the two halves develop equally;
afterwards the left falls far behind the right. In consequence of the
unsymmetrical development and turning of the stomach and other
abdominal viscera, the whole liver is now pushed to the right side.
Although the liver does not afterwards grow so disproportionately, it
is comparatively larger in the embryo at the end of pregnancy than in
the adult. Its weight relatively to that of the whole body is 1 : 36
in the adult, and 1 : 18 in the embryo. Hence it is very important
physiologically during embryonic life; it is chiefly concerned in the
formation of blood, not so much in the secretion of bile.

Immediately behind the liver a second large visceral gland develops
from the duodenum, the pancreas or sweetbread. It is wanting in most
of the lowest classes of Vertebrates, and is first found in the
fishes. This organ is also an outgrowth from the gut.

The last section of the alimentary canal, the large intestine, is at
first in the embryo a very simple, short, and straight tube, which
opens behind by the anus. It remains thus throughout life in the lower
Vertebrates. But it grows considerably in the mammals, coils into
various folds, and divides into two sections, the first and longer of
which is the colon, and the second the rectum. At the beginning of the
colon there is a valve (valvula Bauhini) that separates it from the
small intestine. Immediately behind this there is a sac-like growth,
which enlarges into the caecum (Figure 2.357 v). In the plant-eating
mammals this is very large, but it is very small or completely
atrophied in the flesh-eaters. In man, and most of the apes, only the
first portion of the caecum is wide; the blind end-part of it is very
narrow, and seems later to be merely a useless appendage of the
former. This "vermiform appendage" is very interesting as a
rudimentary organ. The only significance of it in man is that not
infrequently a cherry-stone or some other hard and indigestible matter
penetrates into its narrow cavity, and by setting up inflammation and
suppuration causes the death of otherwise sound men. Teleology has
great difficulty in giving a rational explanation of, and attributing
to a beneficent Providence, this dreaded appendicitis. In our
plant-eating ancestors this rudimentary organ was much larger and had
a useful function.

Finally, we have important appendages of the alimentary tube in the
bladder and urethra, which belong to the alimentary system. These
urinary organs, acting as reservoir and duct for the urine excreted by
the kidneys, originate from the innermost part of the allantoic
pedicle. In the Dipneusts and Amphibia, in which the allantoic sac
first makes its appearance, it remains within the body-cavity, and
functions entirely as bladder. But in all the Amniotes it grows far
outside of the body-cavity of the embryo, and forms the large
embryonic "primitive bladder," from which the placenta develops in the
higher mammals. This is lost at birth. But the long stalk or pedicle
of the allantois remains, and forms with its upper part the middle
vesico-umbilical ligament, a rudimentary organ that goes in the shape
of a solid string from the vertex of the bladder to the navel. The
lowest part of the allantoic pedicle (or the "urachus") remains
hollow, and forms the bladder. At first this opens into the last
section of the gut in man as in the lower Vertebrates; thus there is a
real cloaca, which takes off both urine and excrements. But among the
mammals this cloaca is only permanent in the Monotremes, as it is in
all the birds, reptiles, and amphibia. In all the other mammals
(marsupials and placentals) a transverse partition is afterwards
formed, and this separates the urogenital aperture in front from the
anus-opening behind. (Cf. Chapters 2.22 and 2.29.)


CHAPTER 2.28. EVOLUTION OF THE VASCULAR SYSTEM.

The use that we have hitherto made of our biogenetic law will give the
reader an idea how far we may trust its guidance in phylogenetic
investigation. This differs considerably in the various systems of
organs; the reason is that heredity and variability have a very
different range in these systems. While some of them faithfully
preserve the original palingenetic development inherited from earlier
animal ancestors, others show little trace of this rigid heredity;
they are rather disposed to follow new and divergent CENOGENETIC lines
of development in consequence of adaptation. The organs of the first
kind represent the CONSERVATIVE element in the multicellular state of
the human frame, while the latter represent the PROGRESSIVE element.
The course of historic development is a result of the correlation of
the two tendencies, and they must be carefully distinguished.

There is perhaps no other system of organs in the human body in which
this is more necessary than in that of which we are now going to
consider the obscure development--the vascular system, or apparatus of
circulation. If we were to draw our conclusions as to the original
features in our earlier animal ancestors solely from the phenomena of
the development of this system in the embryo of man and the other
higher Vertebrates, we should be wholly misled. By a number of
important embryonic adaptations, the chief of which is the formation
of an extensive food-yelk, the original course of the development of
the vascular system has been so much falsified and curtailed in the
higher Vertebrates that little or nothing now remains in their
embryology of some of the principal phylogenetic features. We should
be quite unable to explain these if comparative anatomy and ontogeny
did not come to our assistance.

The vascular system in man and all the Craniotes is an elaborate
apparatus of cavities filled with juices or cell-containing fluids.
These "vessels" (vascula) play an important part in the nutrition of
the body. They partly conduct the nutritive red blood to the various
parts of the body (blood-vessels); partly absorb from the gut the
white chyle formed in digestion (chyle-vessels); and partly collect
the used-up juices and convey them away from the tissues (lymphatic
vessels). With the latter are connected the large cavities of the
body, especially the body-cavity, or coeloma. The lymphatic vessels
conduct both the colourless lymph and the white chyle into the venous
part of the circulation. The lymphatic glands act as producers of new
blood-cells, and with them is associated the spleen. The centre of
movement for the circulation of the fluids is the heart, a strong
muscular sac, which contracts regularly and is equipped with valves
like a pump. This constant and steady circulation of the blood makes
possible the complex metabolism of the higher animals.

But, however important the vascular system may be to the more advanced
and larger and highly-differentiated animals, it is not at all so
indispensable an element of animal life as is commonly supposed. The
older science of medicine regarded the blood as the real source of
life. Even in the still prevalent confused notions of heredity the
blood plays the chief part. People speak generally of full blood, half
blood, etc., and imagine that the hereditary transmission of certain
characters "lies in the blood." The incorrectness of these ideas is
clearly seen from the fact that in the act of generation the blood of
the parents is not directly transmitted to the offspring, nor does the
embryo possess blood in its early stages. We have already seen that
not only the differentiation of the four secondary germinal layers,
but also the first structures of the principal organs in the embryo of
all the Vertebrates, take place long before there is any trace of the
vascular system--the heart and the blood. In accordance with this
ontogenetic fact, we must regard the vascular system as one of the
latest organs from the phylogenetic point of view; just as we have
found the alimentary canal to be one of the earliest. In any case, the
vascular system is much later than the alimentary.

(FIGURE 2.358. Red blood-cells of various Vertebrates (equally
magnified). 1. of man, 2. camel, 3. dove, 4. proteus, 5.
water-salamander (Triton), 6. frog, 7. merlin (Cobitis), 8. lamprey
(Petromyzon). a surface-view, b edge-view. (From Wagner.)

FIGURE 2.359. Vascular tissues or endothelium (vasalium). A capillary
from the mesentery. a vascular cells, b their nuclei.)

The important nutritive fluid that circulates as blood and lymph in
the elaborate canals of our vascular system is not a clear, simple
fluid, but a very complex chemical juice with millions of cells
floating in it. These blood-cells are just as important in the
complicated life of the higher animal body as the circulation of money
is to the commerce of a civilised community. Just as the citizens meet
their needs most conveniently by means of a financial circulation, so
the various tissue-cells, the microscopic citizens of the
multicellular human body, have their food conveyed to them best by the
circulating cells in the blood. These blood cells (haemocytes) are of
two kinds in man and all the other Craniotes--red cells (rhodocytes or
erythrocytes) and colourless or lymph cells (leucocytes). The red
colour of the blood is caused by the great accumulation of the former,
the others circulate among them in much smaller quantity. When the
colourless cells increase at the expense of the red we get anaemia (or
chlorosis).

(FIGURE 2.360. Transverse section of the trunk of a chick-embryo,
forty-five hours old. (From Balfour.) A ectoderm (horny-plate), Mc
medullary tube, ch chorda, C entoderm (gut-gland layer), Pv primitive
segment (episomite), Wd prorenal duct, pp coeloma (secondary
body-cavity). So skin-fibre layer, Sp gut-fibre layer, v blood-vessels
in latter, ao primitive aortas, containing red blood-cells.)

The lymph-cells (leucocytes), commonly called the "white corpuscles"
of the blood, are phylogenetically older and more widely distributed
in the animal world than the red. The great majority of the
Invertebrates that have acquired an independent vascular system have
only colourless lymph-cells in the circulating fluid. There is an
exception in the Nemertines (Figure 2.358) and some groups of
Annelids. When we examine the colourless blood of a cray-fish or a
snail (Figure 2.358) under a high power of the microscope, we find in
each drop numbers of mobile leucocytes, which behave just like
independent Amoebae (Figure 1.17). Like these unicellular Protozoa,
the colourless blood-cells creep slowly about, their unshapely
plasma-body constantly changing its form, and stretching out
finger-like processes first in one direction, then another. Like the
Amoebae, they take particles into their cell-body. On account of this
feature these amoeboid plastids are called "eating cells"
(phagocytes), and on account of their motions "travelling cells"
(planocytes). It has been shown by the discoveries of the last few
decades that these leucocytes are of the greatest physiological and
pathological consequence to the organism. They can absorb either solid
or dissolved particles from the wall of the gut, and convey them to
the blood in the chyle; they can absorb and remove unusable matter
from the tissues. When they pass in large quantities through the fine
pores of the capillaries and accumulate at irritated spots, they cause
inflammation. They can consume and destroy bacteria, the dreaded
vehicles of infectious diseases; but they can also transport these
injurious Monera to fresh regions, and so extend the sphere of
infection. It is probable that the sensitive and travelling leucocytes
of our invertebrate ancestors have powerfully co-operated for millions
of years in the phylogenesis of the advancing animal organisation.

The red blood-cells have a much more restricted sphere of distribution
and activity. But they also are very important in connection with
certain functions of the craniote-organism, especially the exchange of
gases or respiration. The cells of the dark red, carbonised or venous,
blood, which have absorbed carbonic acid from the animal tissues, give
this off in the respiratory organs; they receive instead of it fresh
oxygen, and thus bring about the bright red colour that distinguishes
oxydised or arterial blood. The red colouring matter of the blood
(haemoglobin) is regularly distributed in the pores of their
protoplasm. The red cells of most of the Vertebrates are elliptical
flat disks, and enclose a nucleus of the same shape; they differ a
good deal in size (Figure 2.358). The mammals are distinguished from
the other Vertebrates by the circular form of their biconcave red
cells and by the absence of a nucleus (Figure 1.1); only a few genera
still have the elliptic form inherited from the reptiles (Figure 1.2).
In the embryos of the mammals the red cells have a nucleus and the
power of increasing by cleavage (Figure 1.10).

The origin of the blood-cells and vessels in the embryo, and their
relation to the germinal layers and tissues, are among the most
difficult problems of ontogeny--those obscure questions on which the
most divergent opinions are still advanced by the most competent
scientists. In general, it is certain that the greater part of the
cells that compose the vessels and their contents come from the
mesoderm--in fact, from the gut-fibre layer; it was on this account
that Baer gave the name of "vascular layer" to this visceral layer of
the coeloma. But other important observers say that a part of these
cells come from other germinal layers, especially from the gut-gland
layer. It seems to be true that blood-cells may be formed from the
cells of the entoderm before the development of the mesoderm. If we
examine sections of chickens, the earliest and most familiar subjects
of embryology, we find at an early stage the "primitive-aortas" we
have already described (Figure 2.360 ao) in the ventral angle between
the episoma (Pv) and hyposoma (Sp). The thin wall of these first
vessels of the amniote embryo consists of flat cells (endothelia or
vascular epithelia); the fluid within already contains numbers of red
blood-cells; both have been developed from the gut-fibre layer. It is
the same with the vessels of the germinative area (Figure 2.361 v),
which lie on the entodermic membrane of the yelk-sac (c). These
features are seen still more clearly in the transverse section of the
duck-embryo in Figure 1.152. In this we see clearly how a number of
stellate cells proceed from the "vascular layer" and spread in all
directions in the "primary body-cavity"--i.e. in the spaces between
the germinal layers. A part of these travelling cells come together
and line the wall of the larger spaces, and thus form the first
vessels; others enter into the cavity, live in the fluid that fills
it, and multiply by cleavage--the first blood-cells.

But, besides these mesodermic cells of the "vascular layer" proper,
other travelling cells, of which the origin and purport are still
obscure, take part in the formation of blood in the meroblastic
Vertebrates (especially fishes). The chief of these are those that
Ruckert has most aptly denominated "merocytes." These "eating
yelk-cells" are found in large numbers in the food-yelk of the
Selachii, especially in the yelk-wall--the border zone of the germinal
disk in which the embryonic vascular net is first developed. The
nuclei of the merocytes become ten times as large as the ordinary
cell-nucleus, and are distinguished by their strong capacity for
taking colour, or their special richness in chromatin. Their
protoplasmic body resembles the stellate cells of osseous tissue
(astrocytes), and behaves just like a rhizopod (such as Gromia); it
sends out numbers of stellate processes all round, which ramify and
stretch into the surrounding food-yelk. These variable and very mobile
processes, the pseudopodia of the merocytes, serve both for locomotion
and for getting food; as in the real rhizopods, they surround the
solid particles of food (granules and plates of yelk), and accumulate
round their nucleus the food they have received and digested. Hence we
may regard them both as eating-cells (phagocytes) and travelling-cells
(planocytes). Their lively nucleus divides quickly and often
repeatedly, so that a number of new nuclei are formed in a short time;
as each fresh nucleus surrounds itself with a mantle of protoplasm, it
provides a new cell for the construction of the embryo. Their origin
is still much disputed.

(FIGURE 2.361. Merocytes of a shark-embryo, rhizopod-like yelk-cells
underneath the embryonic cavity (B). (From Ruckert.) z two embryonic
cells, k nuclei of the merocytes, which wander about in the yelk and
eat small yelk-plates (d), k smaller, more superficial, lighter
nuclei, k apostrophe a deeper nucleus, in the act of cleavage, k
asterisk chromatin-filled border-nucleus, freed from the surrounding
yelk in order to show the numerous pseudopodia of the protoplasmic
cell-body.)

Half of the twelve stems of the animal world have no blood-vessels.
They make their first appearance in the Vermalia. Their earliest
source is the primary body-cavity, the simple space between the two
primary germinal layers, which is either a relic of the
segmentation-cavity, or is a subsequent formation. Amoeboid
planocytes, which migrate from the entoderm and reach this
fluid-filled primary cavity, live and multiply there, and form the
first colourless blood-cells. We find the vascular system in this very
simple form to-day in the Bryozoa, Rotatoria, Nematoda, and other
lower Vermalia.

The first step in the improvement of this primitive vascular system is
the formation of larger canals or blood-conducting tubes. The spaces
filled with blood, the relics of the primary body-cavity, receive a
special wall. "Blood-vessels" of this kind (in the narrower sense) are
found among the higher worms in various forms, sometimes very simple,
at other times very complex. The form that was probably the incipient
structure of the elaborate vascular system of the Vertebrates (and of
the Articulates) is found in two primordial principal vessels--a
dorsal vessel in the middle line of the dorsal wall of the gut, and a
ventral vessel that runs from front to rear in the middle line of its
ventral wall. From the dorsal vessel is evolved the aorta (or
principal artery), from the ventral vessel the principal or
subintestinal vein. The two vessels are connected in front and behind
by a loop that runs round the gut. The blood contained in the two
tubes is propelled by their peristaltic contractions.

(FIGURE 2.362. Vascular system of an Annelid (Saenuris), foremost
section. d dorsal vessel, v ventral vessel, c transverse connection of
two (enlarged in shape of heart). The arrows indicate the direction of
the flow of blood. (From Gegenbaur.)

The earliest Vermalia in which we first find this independent vascular
system are the Nemertina (Figure 2.244). As a rule, they have three
parallel longitudinal vessels connected by loops, a single dorsal
vessel above the gut and a pair of lateral vessels to the right and
left. In some of the Nemertina the blood is already coloured, and the
red colouring matter is real haemoglobin, connected with elliptical
discoid cells, as in the Vertebrates. The further evolution of this
rudimentary vascular system can be gathered from the class of the
Annelids in which we find it at various stages of development. First,
a number of transverse connections are formed between the dorsal and
ventral vessels, which pass round the gut ring-wise (Figure 2.362).
Other vessels grow into the body-wall and ramify in order to convey
blood to it. In addition to the two large vessels of the middle plane
there are often two lateral vessels, one to the right and one to the
left; as, for instance, in the leech. There are four of these parallel
longitudinal vessels in the Enteropneusts (Balanoglossus, Figure
2.245). In these important Vermalia the foremost section of the gut
has already been converted into a gill-crate, and the vascular arches
that rise in the wall of this from the ventral to the dorsal vessel
have become branchial vessels.

We have a further important advance in the Tunicates, which we have
recognised as the nearest blood-relatives of our early vertebrate
ancestors. Here we find for the first time a real heart--i.e. a
central organ of circulation, driving the blood into the vessels by
the regular contractions of its muscular wall, it is of a very
rudimentary character, a spindle-shaped tube, passing at both ends
into a principal vessel (Figure 2.221). By its original position
behind the gill-crate, on ventral side of the Tunicates (sometimes
more, sometimes less, forward), the head shows clearly that it has
been formed by the local enlargement of a section of the ventral
vessel. We have already noticed the remarkable alternation of the
direction of the blood stream, the heart driving it first from one
end, then from the other (Chapter 2.16). This is very instructive,
because in most of the worms (even the Enteropneust) the blood in the
dorsal vessel travels from back to front, but in the Vertebrates in
the opposite direction. As the Ascidia-heart alternates steadily from
one direction to the other, it shows us permanently, in a sense, the
phylogenetic transition from the earlier forward direction of the
dorsal current (in the worms) to the new backward direction (in the
Vertebrates).

(FIGURE 2.363. Head of a fish-embryo, with rudimentary vascular
system, from the left. dc Cuvier's duct (juncture of the anterior and
posterior principal veins), sv venous sinus (enlarged end of Cuvier's
duct), a auricle, v ventricle, abr trunk of branchial artery, s
gill-clefts (arterial arches between), ad aorta, c carotid artery, n
nasal pit. (From Gegenbaur.)

FIGURE 2.364. The five arterial arches of the Craniotes (1 to 5) in
their original disposition, a arterial cone or bulb, a double
apostrophe aorta-trunk, c carotid artery (foremost continuation of the
roots of the aorta). (From Rathke.)

FIGURE 2.365. The five arterial arches of the birds; the lighter parts
of the structure disappear; only the shaded parts remain. Letters as
in Figure 2.364. s subclavian arteries, p pulmonary artery, p
apostrophe branches of same, c apostrophe outer carotid, c double
apostrophe inner carotid. (From Rathke.)

FIGURE 2.366. The five arterial arches of mammals; letters as in
Figure 2.365. v vertebral artery, b Botall's duct (open in the embryo,
closed afterwards). (From Rathke.))

As the new direction became permanent in the earlier Prochordonia,
which gave rise to the Vertebrate stem, the two vessels that proceed
from either end of the tubular heart acquired a fixed function. The
foremost section of the ventral vessel henceforth always conveys blood
from the heart, and so acts as an artery; the hind section of the same
vessel brings the blood from the body to the heart, and so becomes a
vein. In view of their relation to the two sections of the gut, we may
call the latter the intestinal vein and the former the branchial
artery. The blood contained in both vessels, and also in the heart, is
venous or carbonised blood--i.e. rich in carbonic acid; on the other
hand, the blood that passes from the gills into the dorsal vessel is
provided with fresh oxygen--arterial or oxydised blood. The finest
branches of the arteries and veins pass into each other in the tissues
by means of a network of very fine, ventral, hair-like vessels, or
capillaries (Figure 2.359).

When we turn from the Tunicates to the closely-related Amphioxus we
are astonished at first to find an apparent retrogression in the
formation of the vascular system. As we have seen, the Amphioxus has
no real heart; its colourless blood is driven along in its vascular
system by the principal vessel itself, which contracts regularly in
its whole length (cf. Figure 2.210). A dorsal vessel that lies above
the gut (aorta) receives the arterial blood from the gills and drives
it into the body. Returning from here, the venous blood gathers in a
ventral vessel under the gut (intestinal vein), and goes back to the
gills. A number of branchial vascular arches, which effect respiration
and rise in the wall of the branchial gut from belly to back, absorb
oxygen from the water and give off carbonic acid; they connect the
ventral with the dorsal vessel. As the same section of the ventral
vessel, which also forms the heart in the Craniotes, has developed in
the Ascidia into a simple tubular heart, we may regard the absence of
this in the Amphioxus as a result of degeneration, a return in this
case to the earlier form of the vascular system, as we find it in many
of the worms. We may assume that the Acrania that really belong to our
ancestral series did not share this retrogression, but inherited the
one-chambered heart of the Prochordonia, and transmitted it directly
to the earliest Craniotes (cf. the ideal Primitive Vertebrate,
Prospondylus, Figures 1.98 to 1.102).

(FIGURES 2.367 TO 2.370. Metamorphosis of the five arterial arches in
the human embryo (diagram from Rathke). la arterial cone, 1, 2, 3, 4,
5 first to fifth pair of arteries, ad trunk of aorta, aw roots of
aorta. In Figure 2.367 only three, in Figure 2.368 all five, of the
aortic arches are given (the dotted ones only are developed). In
Figure 2.369 the first two pairs have disappeared again. In Figure
2.370 the permanent trunks of the artery are shown; the dotted parts
disappear, s subclavian artery, v vertebral, ax axillary, c carotid (c
apostrophe outer, c double apostrophe inner carotid), p pulmonary.)

The further phylogenetic evolution of the vascular system is revealed
to us by the comparative anatomy of the Craniotes. At the lowest stage
of this group, in the Cyclostomes, we find for the first time the
differentiation of the vasorium into two sections: a system of
blood-vessels proper, which convey the RED blood about the body, and a
system of lymphatic vessels, which absorb the colourless lymph from
the tissues and convey it to the blood. The lymphatics that absorb
from the gut and pour into the blood-stream the milky food-fluid
formed by digestion are distinguished by the special name of
"chyle-vessels." While the chyle is white on account of its high
proportion of fatty particles, the lymph proper is colourless. Both
chyle and lymph contain the colourless amoeboid cells (leucocytes,
Figure 1.12) that we also find distributed in the blood as colourless
blood-cells (or "white corpuscles"); but the blood also contains a
much larger quantity of red cells, and these give its characteristic
colour to the blood of the Craniotes (rhodocytes, Figure 2.358). The
distinction between lymph, chyle, and blood-vessels which is found in
all the Craniotes may be regarded as an outcome of division of labour
between various sections of our originally simple vascular system. In
the Gnathostomes the spleen makes its first appearance, an organ rich
in blood, the chief function of which is the extensive formation of
new colourless and red cells. It is not found in the Acrania and
Cyclostomes, or any of the Invertebrates. It has been transmitted from
the earliest fishes to all the Craniotes.

The heart also, the central organ of circulation in all the Craniotes,
shows an advance in structure in the Cyclostomes. The simple,
spindle-shaped heart-tube, found in the same form in the embryo of all
the Craniotes, is divided into two sections or chambers in the
Cyclostomes, and these are separated by a pair of valves. The hind
section, the auricle, receives the venous blood from the body and
passes it on to the anterior section, the ventricle. From this it is
driven through the trunk of the branchial artery (the foremost section
of the ventral vessel or principal vein) into the gills.

In the Selachii an arterial cone is developed from the foremost end of
the ventricle, as a special division, cut off by valves. It passes
into the enlarged base of the trunk of the branchial artery (Figure
2.363 abr). On each side 5 to 7 arteries proceed from it. These rise
between the gill-clefts (s) on the gill-arches, surround the gullet,
and unite above into a common trunk-aorta, the continuation of which
over the gut corresponds to the dorsal vessel of the worms. As the
curved arteries on the gill-arches spread into a network of
respiratory capillaries, they contain venous blood in their lower part
(as arches of the branchial artery) and arterial blood in the upper
part (as arches of the aorta). The junctures of the various aortic
arches on the right and left are called the roots of the aorta. Of an
originally large number of aortic arches there remain at first six,
then (owing to degeneration of the fifth arch) only five, pairs; and
from these five pairs (Figure 2.364) the chief parts of the arterial
system develop in all the higher Vertebrates.

(FIGURE 2.371. Heart of a rabbit-embryo, from behind, a vitelline
veins, b auricles of the heart, c atrium, d ventricle, e arterial
bulb, f base of the three pairs of arterial arches. (From Bischoff.)

FIGURE 2.372. Heart of the same embryo (Figure 2.371), from the front.
v vitelline veins, a auricle, ca auricular canal, l left ventricle, r
right ventricle, ta arterial bulb. (From Bischoff.))

The appearance of the lungs and the atmospheric respiration connected
therewith, which we first meet in the Dipneusts, is the next important
step in vascular evolution. In the Dipneusts the auricle of the heart
is divided by an incomplete partition into two halves. Only the right
auricle now receives the venous blood from the veins of the body. The
left auricle receives the arterial blood from the pulmonary veins. The
two auricles have a common opening into the simple ventricle, where
the two kinds of blood mix, and are driven through the arterial cone
or bulb into the arterial arches. From the last arterial arches the
pulmonary arteries arise (Figure 2.365 p). These force a part of the
mixed blood into the lungs, the other part of it going through the
aorta into the body.

From the Dipneusts upwards we now trace a progressive development of
the vascular system, which ends finally with the loss of branchial
respiration and a complete separation of the two halves of the
circulation. In the Amphibia the partition between the two auricles is
complete. In their earlier stages, as tadpoles (Figure 2.262), they
have still the branchial respiration and the circulation of the
fishes, and their heart contains venous blood alone. Afterwards the
lungs and pulmonary vessels are developed, and henceforth the
ventricle of the heart contains mixed blood. In the reptiles the
ventricle and its arterial cone begin to divide into two halves by a
longitudinal partition, and this partition becomes complete in the
higher reptiles and birds on the one hand, and the stem-forms of the
mammals on the other. Henceforth, the right half of the heart contains
only venous, and the left half only arterial, blood, as we find in all
birds and mammals. The right auricle receives its carbonised or venous
blood from the veins of the body, and the right ventricle drives it
through the pulmonary arteries into the lungs. From here the blood
returns, as oxydised or arterial blood, through the pulmonary veins to
the left auricle, and is forced by the left ventricle into the
arteries of the body. Between the pulmonary arteries and veins is the
capillary system of the small or pulmonary circulation. Between the
body-arteries and veins is the capillary system of the large or
body-circulation. It is only in the two highest classes of
Vertebrates--the birds and mammals--that we find a complete division
of the circulations. Moreover, this complete separation has been
developed quite independently in the two classes, as the dissimilar
formation of the aortas shows of itself. In the birds the RIGHT half
of the fourth arterial arch has become the permanent arch (Figure
2.365). In the mammals this has been developed from the LEFT half of
the same fourth arch (Figure 2.366).

(FIGURE 2.373. Heart and head of a dog-embryo, from the front, a fore
brain, b eyes, c middle brain, d primitive lower jaw, e primitive
upper jaw, f gill-arches, g right auricle, h left auricle, i left
ventricle, k right ventricle. (From Bischoff.)

FIGURE 2.374. Heart of the same dog-embryo, from behind. a
inosculation of the vitelline veins, b left auricle, c right auricle,
d auricle, e auricular canal, f left ventricle, g right ventricle, h
arterial bulb, (From Bischoff)

FIGURE 2.375. Heart of a human embryo, four weeks old; 1. front view,
2. back view, 3. opened, and upper half of the atrium removed. a
apostrophe left auricle, a double apostrophe right auricle, v
apostrophe left ventricle, v double apostrophe right ventricle, ao
arterial bulb, c superior vena cava (cd right, cs left), s rudiment of
the interventricular wall. (From Kolliker.)

FIGURE 2.376. Heart of a human embryo, six weeks old, front view. r
right ventricle, t left ventricle, s furrow between ventricles, ta
arterial bulb, af furrow on its surface; to right and left are the two
large auricles. (From Ecker.)

FIGURE 2.377. Heart of a human embryo, eight weeks old, back view. a
apostrophe left auricle, a double apostrophe right auricle, v
apostrophe left ventricle, v double apostrophe right ventricle, cd
apostrophe right superior vena cava, ci inferior vena cava. (From
Kolliker.))

If we compare the fully-developed arterial system of the various
classes of Craniotes, it shows a good deal of variety, yet it always
proceeds from the same fundamental type. Its development is just the
same in man as in the other mammals; in particular, the modification
of the six pairs of arterial arches is the same in both (Figures 2.367
to 2.370). At first there is only a single pair of arches, which lie
on the inner surface of the first pair of gill-arches. Behind this
there then develop a second and third pair of arches (lying on the
inner side of the second and third gill-arches, Figure 2.367).
Finally, we get a fourth, fifth, and sixth pair. Of the six primitive
arterial arches of the Amniotes three soon pass away (the first,
second, and fifth); of the remaining three, the third gives the
carotids, the fourth the aortas, and the sixth (number 5 in Figures
2.364 and 2.368) the pulmonary arteries.

The human heart also develops in just the same way as that of the
other mammals (Figure 2.378). We have already seen the first rudiments
of its embryology, which in the main corresponds to its phylogeny
(Figures 1.201 and 1.202). We saw that the palingenetic form of the
heart is a spindle-shaped thickening of the gut-fibre layer in the
ventral wall of the head-gut. The structure is then hollowed out,
forms a simple tube, detaches from its place of origin, and henceforth
lies freely in the cardiac cavity. Presently the tube bends into the
shape of an S, and turns spirally on an imaginary axis in such a way
that the hind part comes to lie on the dorsal surface of the fore
part. The united vitelline veins open into the posterior end. From the
anterior end spring the aortic arches.

(FIGURE 2.378. Heart of the adult man, fully developed, front view,
natural position. a right auricle (underneath it the right ventricle),
b left auricle (under it the left ventricle), C superior vena cava, V
pulmonary veins, P pulmonary artery, d Botalli's duct, A aorta. (From
Meyer.))

This first structure of the human heart, enclosing a very simple
cavity, corresponds to the tunicate-heart, and is a reproduction of
that of the Prochordonia, but it now divides into two, and
subsequently into three, compartments; this reminds us for a time of
the heart of the Cyclostomes and fishes. The spiral turning and
bending of the heart increases, and at the same time two transverse
constrictions appear, dividing it externally into three sections
(Figures 2.371 and 2.372). The foremost section, which is turned
towards the ventral side, and from which the aortic arches rise,
reproduces the arterial bulb of the Selachii. The middle section is a
simple ventricle, and the hindmost, the section turned towards the
dorsal side, into which the vitelline veins inosculate, is a simple
auricle (or atrium). The latter forms, like the simple atrium of the
fish-heart, a pair of lateral dilatations, the auricles (Figure 2.371
b); and the constriction between the atrium and ventricle is called
the auricular canal (Figure 2.372 ca). The heart of the human embryo
is now a complete fish-heart.

(FIGURE 2.379. Transverse section of the back of the head of a
chick-embryo, forty hours old. (From Kolliker.) m medulla oblongata,
ph pharyngeal cavity (head-gut), h horny plate, h apostrophe thicker
part of it, from which the auscultory pits afterwards develop, hp
skin-fibre plate, hh cervical cavity (head-coelom or cardiocoel), hzp
cardiac plate (the outermost mesodermic wall of the heart), connected
by the ventral mesocardium (uhg) with the gut-fibre layer or visceral
coelom-layer (dfp apostrophe), Ent entoderm, ihh inner (entodermic?)
wall of the heart; the two endothelial cardiac tubes are still
separated by the cenogenetic septum (s) of the Amniotes, g vessels.)

In perfect harmony with its phylogeny, the embryonic development of
the human heart shows a gradual transition from the fish-heart,
through the amphibian and reptile, to the mammal form, The most
important point in the transition is the formation of a longitudinal
partition--incomplete at first, but afterwards complete--which
separates all three divisions of the heart into right (venous) and
left (arterial) halves (cf. Figures 2.373 to 2.378). The atrium is
separated into a right and left half, each of which absorbs the
corresponding auricle; into the right auricle open the body-veins
(upper and lower vena cava, Figures 2.375 c and 2.377 c); the left
auricle receives the pulmonary veins. In the same way a superficial
interventricular furrow is soon seen in the ventricle (Figure 2.376
s). This is the external sign of the internal partition by which the
ventricle is divided into two--a right venous and left arterial
ventricle. Finally a longitudinal partition is formed in the third
section of the primitive fish-like heart, the arterial bulb,
externally indicated by a longitudinal furrow (Figure 2.376 af). The
cavity of the bulb is divided into two lateral halves, the
pulmonary-artery bulb, that opens into the right ventricle, and the
aorta-bulb, that opens into the left ventricle. When all the
partitions are complete, the small (pulmonary) circulation is
distinguished from the large (body) circulation; the motive centre of
the former is the right half, and that of the latter the left half, of
the heart.

The heart of all the Vertebrates belongs originally to the hyposoma of
the head, and we accordingly find it in the embryo of man and all the
other Amniotes right in front on the under-side of the head; just as
in the fishes it remains permanently in front of the gullet. It
afterwards descends into the trunk, with the advance in the
development of the neck and breast, and at last reaches the breast,
between the two lungs. At first it lies symmetrically in the middle
plane of the body, so that its long axis corresponds with that of the
body. In most of the mammals it remains permanently in this position.
But in the apes the axis begins to be oblique, and the apex of the
heart to move towards the left side. The displacement is greatest in
the anthropoid apes--chimpanzee, gorilla, and orang--which resemble
man in this.

As the heart of all Vertebrates is originally, in the light of
phylogeny, only a local enlargement of the middle principal vein, it
is in perfect accord with the biogenetic law that its first structure
in the embryo is a simple spindle-shaped tube in the ventral wall of
the head-gut. A thin membrane, standing vertically in the middle
plane, the mesocardium, connects the ventral wall of the head-gut with
the lower head-wall. As the cardiac tube extends and detaches from the
gut-wall, it divides the mesocardium into an upper (dorsal) and lower
(ventral) plate (usually called the mesocardium anterius and posterius
in man, Figure 2.379 uhg). The mesocardium divides two lateral
cavities, Remak's "neck-cavities" (Figure 2.379 hh). These cavities
afterwards join and form the simple pericardial cavity, and are
therefore called by Kolliker the "primitive pericardial cavities."

(FIGURE 2.380. Frontal section of a human embryo, one-twelfth of an
inch long in the neck, magnified forty times; "invented" by Wilhelm
His. Seen from ventral side. mb mouth-fissure, surrounded by the
branchial processes, ab bulbus of aorta, hm middle part of ventricle,
hl left lateral part of same, ho auricle, d diaphragm, vc superior
vena cava, vu umbilical vein, vo vitelline space, lb liver, lg hepatic
duct.)

The double cervical cavity of the Amniotes is very interesting, both
from the anatomical and the evolutionary point of view; it corresponds
to a part of the hyposomites of the head of the lower
Vertebrates--that part of the ventral coelom-pouches which comes next
to Van Wijhe's "visceral cavities" below. Each of the cavities still
communicates freely behind with the two coelom-pouches of the trunk;
and, just as these afterwards coalesce into a simple body-cavity (the
ventral mesentery disappearing), we find the same thing happening in
the head. This simple primary pericardial cavity has been well called
by Gegenbaur the "head-coeloma," and by Hertwig the "pericardial
breast-cavity." As it now encloses the heart, it may also be called
cardiocoel.

The cardiocoel, or head-coelom, is often disproportionately large in
the Amniotes, the simple cardiac tube growing considerably and lying
in several folds. This causes the ventral wall of the amniote embryo,
between the head and the navel, to be pushed outwards as in rupture
(cf. Figure 1.180 h). A transverse fold of the ventral wall, which
receives all the vein-trunks that open into the heart, grows up from
below between the pericardium and the stomach, and forms a transverse
partition, which is the first structure of the primary diaphragm
(Figure 2.380 d). This important muscular partition, which completely
separates the thoracic and abdominal cavities in the mammals alone, is
still very imperfect here; the two cavities still communicate for a
time by two narrow canals. These canals, which belong to the dorsal
part of the head-coelom, and which we may call briefly pleural ducts,
receive the two pulmonary sacs, which develop from the hind end of the
ventral wall of the head-gut; they thus become the two pleural
cavities.

The diaphragm makes its first appearance in the class of the Amphibia
(in the salamanders) as an insignificant muscular transverse fold of
the ventral wall, which rises from the fore end of the transverse
abdominal muscle, and grows between the pericardium and the liver. In
the reptiles (tortoises and crocodiles) a later dorsal part is joined
to this earlier ventral part of the rudimentary diaphragm, a pair of
subvertebral muscles rising from the vertebral column and being added
as "columns" to the transverse partition. But it was probably in the
Permian sauro-mammals that the two originally separate parts were
united, and the diaphragm became a complete partition between the
thoracic and abdominal cavities in the mammals; as it considerably
enlarges the chest-cavity when it contracts, it becomes an important
respiratory muscle. The ontogeny of the diaphragm in man and the other
mammals reproduces this phylogenetic process to-day, in accordance
with the biogenetic law; in all the mammals the diaphragm is formed by
the secondary conjunction of the two originally separate structures,
the earlier ventral part and the later dorsal part.

Sometimes the blending of the two diaphragmatic structures, and
consequently the severance of the one pleural duct from the abdominal
cavity, is not completed in man. This leads to a diaphragmatic rupture
(hernia diaphragmatica). The two cavities then remain in communication
by an open pleural duct, and loops of the intestine may penetrate by
this "rupture opening" into the chest-cavity. This is one of those
fatal mis-growths that show the great part that blind chance has in
organic development.

(FIGURE 2.381. Transverse section of the head of a chick-embryo,
thirty-six hours old. Underneath the medullary tube the two primitive
aortas (pa) can be seen in the head-plates (s) at each side of the
chorda. Underneath the gullet (d) we see the aorta-end of the heart
(ae), hh cervical cavity or head coelom, hk top of heart, ks
head-sheath, amniotic fold, h horny plate. (From Remak.)

(FIGURE 2.382. Transverse section of the cardiac region of the same
chick-embryo (behind the preceding). In the cervical cavity (hh) the
heart (h) is still connected by a mesocard (hg) with the gut-fibre
layer (pf). d gut-gland layer, up provertebral plates, jb rudimentary
auditory vesicle in the horny plate, hp first rise of the amniotic
fold. (From Remak.))

Thus the thoracic cavity of the mammals, with its important contents,
the heart and lungs, belongs originally to the HEAD-PART of the
vertebrate body, and its inclusion in the trunk is secondary. This
instructive and very interesting fact is entirely proved by the
concordant evidence of comparative anatomy and ontogeny. The lungs are
outgrowths of the head-gut; the heart develops from its inner wall.
The pleural sacs that enclose the lungs are dorsal parts of the
head-coelom, originating from the pleuroducts; the pericardium in
which the heart afterwards lies is also double originally, being
formed from ventral halves of the head-coelom, which only combine at a
later stage. When the lung of the air-breathing Vertebrates issues
from the head-cavity and enters the trunk-cavity, it follows the
example of the floating bladder of the fishes, which also originates
from the pharyngeal wall in the shape of a small pouch-like
out-growth, but soon grows so large that, in order to find room, it
has to pass far behind into the trunk-cavity. To put it more
precisely, the lung of the quadrupeds retains this hereditary
growth-process of the fishes; for the hydrostatic floating bladder of
the latter is the air-filled organ from which the air-breathing organ
of the former has been evolved.

There is an interesting cenogenetic phenomenon in the formation of the
heart of the higher Vertebrates that deserves special notice. In its
earliest form the heart is DOUBLE, as recent observation has shown, in
all the Amniotes, and the simple spindle-shaped cardiac tube, which we
took as our starting-point, is only formed at a later stage, when the
two lateral tubes move backwards, touch each other, and at last
combine in the middle line. In man, as in the rabbit, the two
embryonic hearts are still far apart at the stage when there are
already eight primitive segments (Figure 1.134 h). So also the two
coelom-pouches of the head in which they lie are still separated by a
broad space. It is not until the permanent body of the embryo develops
and detaches from the embryonic vesicle that the separate lateral
structures join together, and finally combine in the middle line. As
the median partition between the right and left cardiocoel disappears,
the two cervical cavities freely communicate (Figure 2.381), and form,
on the ventral side of the amniote head, a horseshoe-shaped arch, the
points of which advance backwards into the pleuro-ducts or pleural
cavities, and from there into the two peritoneal sacs of the trunk.
But even after the conjunction of the cervical cavities (Figure 2.381)
the two cardiac tubes remain separate at first; and even after they
have united a delicate partition in the middle of the simple
endothelial tube (Figures 2.379 s and 2.382 h) indicates the original
separation. This CENOGENETIC "primary cardiac septum" presently
disappears, and has no relation to the subsequent permanent partition
between the halves of the heart, which, as a heritage from the
reptiles, has a great PALINGENETIC importance.

Thorough opponents of the biogenetic law have laid great stress on
these and similar cenogenetic phenomena, and endeavoured to urge them
as striking disproofs of the law. As in every other instance, careful,
discriminating, comparative-morphological examination converts these
supposed disproofs of evolution into strong arguments in its favour.
In his excellent work, On the structure of the Heart in the Amphibia
(1886), Carl Rabl has shown how easily these curious cenogenetic facts
can be explained by the secondary adaptation of the embryonic
structure to the great extension of the food-yelk.

The embryology of all the other parts of the vascular system also
gives us abundant and valuable data for the purposes of phylogeny. But
as one needs a thorough knowledge of the intricate structure of the
whole vascular system in man and the other Vertebrates in order to
follow this with profit, we cannot go into it further here. Moreover,
many important features in the ontogeny of the vascular system are
still very obscure and controverted. The characters of the embryonic
circulation of the Amniotes, which we have previously considered
(Chapter 1.15), are late acquisitions and entirely cenogenetic. (Cf.
Chapter 1.15 and Figures 1.198 to 1.202.)


In the Selachii also we find a longitudinal row of segmental canals on
each side, which open outwards into the primitive renal ducts
(nephrotomes, Chapter 1.14). The segmental canals (a pair in each
segment of the middle part of the body) open internally by a ciliated
funnel into the body-cavity. From the posterior group of these organs
a compact primitive kidney is formed, the anterior group taking part
in the construction of the sexual organs.

In the same simple form that remains throughout life in the Myxinoides
and partly in the Selachii we find the primitive kidney first
developing in the embryo of man and the higher Craniotes (Figures
2.386 and 2.387). Of the two parts that compose the comb-shaped
primitive kidney the longitudinal channel, or nephroduct, is always
the first to appear; afterwards the transverse "canals," the excreting
nephridia, are formed in the mesoderm; and after this again the
Malpighian capsules with their arterial coils are associated with
these as coelous outgrowths. The primitive renal duct, which appears
first, is found in all craniote embryos at the early stage in which
the differentiation of the medullary tube takes place in the ectoderm,
the severance of the chorda from the visceral layer in the entoderm,
and the first trace of the coelom-pouches arises between the limiting
layers (Figure 2.385). The nephroduct (ung) is seen on each side,
directly under the horny plate, in the shape of a long, thin,
thread-like string of cells. It presently hollows out and becomes a
canal, running straight from front to back, and clearly showing in the
transverse section of the embryo its original position in the space
between horny plate (h), primitive segments (uw), and lateral plates
(hpl). As the originally very short urinary canals lengthen and
multiply, each of the two primitive kidneys assumes the form of a
half-feathered leaf (Figure 2.387). The lines of the leaf are
represented by the urinary canals (u), and the rib by the outlying
nephroduct (w). At the inner edge of the primitive kidneys the
rudiment of the ventral sexual gland (g) can now be seen as a body of
some size. The hindermost end of the nephroduct opens right behind
into the last section of the rectum, thus making a cloaca of it.
However, this opening of the nephroducts into the intestine must be
regarded as a secondary formation. Originally they open, as the
Cyclostomes clearly show, quite independently of the gut, in the
external skin of the abdomen.

(FIGURE 2.395. Primitive kidneys and germinal glands of a human
embryo, three inches in length (beginning of the sixth week),
magnified fifteen times. k germinal gland, u primitive kidney, z
diaphragmatic ligament of same, w Wolffian duct (opened on the right),
g directing ligament (gubernaculum), a allantoic duct. (From
Kollmann.))

In the Myxinoides the primitive kidneys retain this simple comb-shaped
structure, and a part of it is preserved in the Selachii; but in all
the other Craniotes it is only found for a short time in the embryo,
as an ontogenetic reproduction of the earlier phylogenetic structure.
In these the primitive kidney soon assumes the form (by the rapid
growth, lengthening, increase, and serpentining of the urinary canals)
of a large compact gland, of a long, oval or spindle-shaped character,
which passes through the greater part of the embryonic body-cavity
(Figures 1.183 m, 1.184 m, 2.388 n). It lies near the middle line,
directly under the primitive vertebral column, and reaches from the
cardiac region to the cloaca. The right and left kidneys are parallel
to each other, quite close together, and only separated by the
mesentery--the thin narrow layer that attaches the middle gut to the
under surface of the vertebral column. The passage of each primitive
kidney, the nephroduct, runs towards the back on the lower and outer
side of the gland, and opens in the cloaca, close to the
starting-point of the allantois; it afterwards opens into the
allantois itself.

(FIGURES 2.396 TO 2.398. Urinary and sexual organs of ox-embryos.
Figure 2.396, female embryo one and a half inches long; Figure 2.397,
male embryo, one and a half inches long. Figure 2.398 female embryo
two and a half inches long. w primitive kidney, wg Wolffian duct, m
Mullerian duct, m apostrophe upper end of same (opened at t), i lower
and thicker part of same (rudiment of uterus), g genital cord, h
testicle, (h apostrophe, lower and h double apostrophe, upper
testicular ligament), o ovary, o apostrophe lower ovarian ligament, i
inguinal ligament of primitive kidney, d diaphragmatic ligament of
primitive kidney, nn accessory kidneys, n permanent kidneys, under
them the S-shaped ureters, between these the rectum, v bladder, a
umbilical artery. (From Kolliker.))

The primitive or primordial kidneys of the amniote embryo were
formerly called the "Wolffian bodies," and sometimes "Oken's bodies."
They act for a time as kidneys, absorbing unusable juices from the
embryonic body and conducting them to the cloaca--afterwards to the
allantois. There the primitive urine accumulates, and thus the
allantois acts as bladder or urinary sac in the embryos of man and the
other Amniotes. It has, however, no genetic connection with the
primitive kidneys, but is a pouch-like growth from the anterior wall
of the rectum (Figure 1.147 u). Thus it is a product of the visceral
layer, whereas the primitive kidneys are a product of the middle
layer. Phylogenetically we must suppose that the allantois originated
as a pouch-like growth from the cloaca-wall in consequence of the
expansion caused by the urine accumulated in it and excreted by the
kidneys. It is originally a blind sac of the rectum. The real bladder
of the vertebrate certainly made its first appearance among the
Dipneusts (in Lepidosiren), and has been transmitted from them to the
Amphibia, and from these to the Amniotes. In the embryo of the latter
it protrudes far out of the not yet closed ventral wall. It is true
that many of the fishes also have a "bladder." But this is merely a
local enlargement of the lower section of the nephroducts, and so
totally different in origin and composition from the real bladder. The
two structures can be compared from the physiological point of view,
and so are ANALOGOUS, as they have the same function; but not from the
morphological point of view, and are therefore not HOMOLOGOUS. The
false bladder of the fishes is a mesodermic product of the
nephroducts; the true bladder of the Dipneusts, Amphibia, and Amniotes
is an entodermic blind sac of the rectum.

In all the Anamnia (the lower amnionless Craniotes, Cyclostomes,
Fishes, Dipneusts, and Amphibia) the urinary organs remain at a lower
stage of development to this extent, that the primitive kidneys
(protonephri) act permanently as urinary glands. This is only so as a
passing phase of the early embryonic life in the three higher classes
of Vertebrates, the Amniotes. In these the permanent or after or
secondary (really tertiary) kidneys (renes or metanephri) that are
distinctive of these three classes soon make their appearance. They
represent the third and last generation of the vertebrate kidneys. The
permanent kidneys do not arise (as was long supposed) as independent
glands from the alimentary tube, but from the last section of the
primitive kidneys and the nephroduct. Here a simple tube, the
secondary renal duct, develops, near the point of its entry into the
cloaca; and this tube grows considerably forward. With its blind upper
or anterior end is connected a glandular renal growth, that owes its
origin to a differentiation of the last part of the primitive kidneys.
This rudiment of the permanent kidneys consists of coiled urinary
canals with Malpighian capsules and vascular coils (without ciliated
funnels), of the same structure as the segmental mesonephridia of the
primitive kidneys. The further growth of these metanephridia gives
rise to the compact permanent kidneys, which have the familiar
bean-shape in man and most of the higher mammals, but consist of a
number of separate folds in the lower mammals, birds, and reptiles. As
the permanent kidneys grow rapidly and advance forward, their passage,
the ureter, detaches altogether from its birth-place, the posterior
end of the nephroduct; it passes to the posterior surface of the
allantois. At first in the oldest Amniotes this ureter opens into the
cloaca together with the last section of the nephroduct, but
afterwards separately from this, and finally into the permanent
bladder apart from the rectum altogether. The bladder originates from
the hindmost and lowest part of the allantoic pedicle (urachus), which
enlarges in spindle shape before the entry into the cloaca. The
anterior or upper part of the pedicle, which runs to the navel in the
ventral wall of the embryo, atrophies subsequently, and only a useless
string-like relic of it is left as a rudimentary organ; that is the
single vesico-umbilical ligament. To the right and left of it in the
adult male are a couple of other rudimentary organs, the lateral
vesico-umbilical ligaments. These are the degenerate string-like
relics of the earlier umbilical arteries.

Though in man and all the other Amniotes the primitive kidneys are
thus early replaced by the permanent kidneys, and these alone then act
as urinary organs, all the parts of the former are by no means lost.
The nephroducts become very important physiologically by being
converted into the passages of the sexual glands. In all the
Gnathostomes--or all the Vertebrates from the fishes up to man--a
second similar canal develops beside the nephroduct at an early stage
of embryonic evolution. The latter is usually called the Mullerian
duct, after its discoverer, Johannes Muller, while the former is
called the Wolffian duct. The origin of the Mullerian duct is still
obscure; comparative anatomy and ontogeny seem to indicate that it
originates by differentiation from the Wolffian duct. Perhaps it would
be best to say: "The original primary nephroduct divides by
differentiation (or longitudinal cleavage) into two secondary
nephroducts, the Wolffian and the Mullerian ducts." The latter (Figure
2.387 m) lies just on the inner side of the former (Figure 2.387 w).
Both open behind into the cloaca.

However uncertain the origin of the nephroduct and its two products,
the Mullerian and the Wolffian ducts, may be, its later development is
clear enough. In all the Gnathostomes the Wolffian duct is converted
into the spermaduct, and the Mullerian duct into the oviduct. Only one
of them is retained in each sex; the other either disappears
altogether, or only leaves relics in the shape of rudimentary organs.
In the male sex, in which the two Wolffian ducts become the
spermaducts, we often find traces of the Mullerian ducts, which I have
called "Rathke's canals" (Figure 2.394 c). In the female sex, in which
the two Mullerian ducts form the oviducts, there are relics of the
Wolffian ducts, which are called "the ducts of Gaertner."

(FIGURE 2.399. Female sexual organs of a Monotreme (Ornithorhynchus,
Figure 2.269). o ovaries, t oviducts, u womb, sug urogenital sinus; at
u apostrophe is the outlet of the two wombs, and between them the
bladder (vu). cl cloaca. (From Gegenbaur.)

FIGURES 2.400 AND 2.401. Original position of the sexual glands in the
ventral cavity of the human embryo (three months old).

FIGURE 2.400 male (natural size). h testicles, gh conducting ligament
of the testicles, wg spermaduct, h bladder, uh inferior vena cava, nn
accessory kidneys, n kidneys.

FIGURE 2.401 female, slightly magnified. r round maternal ligament
(underneath it the bladder, over it the ovaries). r apostrophe
kidneys, s accessory kidneys, c caecum, o small reticle, om large
reticle (stomach between the two), l spleen. (From Kolliker.))

We obtain the most interesting information with regard to this
remarkable evolution of the nephroducts and their association with the
sexual glands from the Amphibia (Figures 2.390 to 2.395). The first
structure of the nephroduct and its differentiation into Mullerian and
Wolffian ducts are just the same in both sexes in the Amphibia, as in
the mammal embryos (Figures 2.392 and 2.396). In the female Amphibia
the Mullerian duct develops on either side into a large oviduct
(Figure 2.393 od), while the Wolffian duct acts permanently as ureter
(u). In the male Amphibia the Mullerian duct only remains as a
rudimentary organ without any functional significance, as Rathke's
canal (Figure 2.394 c); the Wolffian duct serves also as ureter, but
at the same time as spermaduct, the sperm-canals (ve) that proceed
from the testicles (t) entering the fore part of the primitive kidneys
and combining there with the urinary canals.

In the mammals these permanent amphibian features are only seen as
brief phases of the earlier period of embryonic development (Figure
2.392). Here the primitive kidneys, which act as excretory organs of
urine throughout life in the amnion-less Vertebrates, are replaced in
the mammals by the permanent kidneys. The real primitive kidneys
disappear for the most part at an early stage of development, and only
small relics of them remain. In the male mammal the epididymis
develops from the uppermost part of the primitive kidney; in the
female a useless rudimentary organ, the epovarium, is formed from the
same part. The atrophied relic of the former is known as the
paradidymis, that of the latter as the parovarium.

(FIGURE 2.402. Urogenital system of a human embryo of three inches in
length, double natural size. h testicles, wg spermaducts, gh
conducting ligament, p processus vaginalis, b bladder, au umbilical
arteries, m mesorchium, d intestine, u ureter, n kidney, nn accessory
kidney. (From Kollman.))

The Mullerian ducts undergo very important changes in the female
mammal. The oviducts proper are developed only from their upper part;
the lower part dilates into a spindle-shaped tube with thick muscular
wall, in which the impregnated ovum develops into the embryo. This is
the womb (uterus). At first the two wombs (Figure 2.399 u) are
completely separate, and open into the cloaca on either side of the
bladder (vu), as is still the case in the lowest living mammals, the
Monotremes. But in the Marsupials a communication is opened between
the two Mullerian ducts, and in the Placentals they combine below with
the rudimentary Wolffian ducts to form a single "genital cord." The
original independence of the two wombs and the vaginal canals formed
from their lower ends are retained in many of the lower Placentals,
but in the higher they gradually blend and form a single organ. The
conjunction proceeds from below (or behind) upwards (or forwards). In
many of the Rodents (such as the rabbit and squirrel) two separate
wombs still open into the simple and single vaginal canal; but in
others, and in the Carnivora, Cetacea, and Ungulates, the lower halves
of the wombs have already fused into a single piece, though the upper
halves (or "horns") are still separate ("two-horned" womb, uteris
bicornis). In the bats and lemurs the "horns" are very short, and the
lower common part is longer. Finally, in the apes and in man the
blending of the two halves is complete, and there is only the one
simple, pear-shaped uterine pouch, into which the oviducts open on
each side. This simple uterus is a late evolutionary product, and is
found ONLY in the ape and man.

(FIGURES 2.403 TO 2.406. Origin of human ova in the female ovary.

FIGURE 2.403. Vertical section of the ovary of a new-born female
infant, a ovarian epithelium, b rudimentary string of ova, c young ova
in the epithelium, d long string of ova with follicle-formation
(Pfluger's tube), e group of young follicles, f isolated young
follicle, g blood-vessels in connective tissue (stroma) of the ovary.
In the strings the young ova are distinguished by their considerable
size from the surrounding follicle-cells. (From Waldeyer.)

FIGURE 2.404. Two young Graafian follicles, isolated. In 1 the
follicle-cells still form a simple, and in 2 a double, stratum round
the young ovum; in 2 they are beginning to form the ovolemma or the
zona pellucida (a).

FIGURES 2.405 AND 2.406. Two older Graafian follicles, in which fluid
is beginning to accumulate inside the eccentrically thickened
epithelial mass of the follicle-cells (Figure 2.405 with little, 2.406
with much, follicle-water). ei the young ovum, with embryonic vesicle
and spot, zp ovolemma or zona pellucida, dp discus proligerus, formed
of an accumulation of follicle-cells, which surround the ovum, ff
follicle-liquid (liquor folliculi), gathered inside the stratified
follicle-epithelium (fe), fk connective-tissue fibrous capsule of the
Graafian follicle (theca folliculi).)

In the male mammals there is the same fusion of the Mullerian and
Wolffian ducts at their lower ends. Here again they form a single
genital cord (Figure 2.397 g), and this opens similarly into the
original urogenital sinus, which develops from the lowest section of
the bladder (v). But while in the male mammal the Wolffian ducts
develop into the permanent spermaducts, there are only rudimentary
relics left of the Mullerian ducts. The most notable of these is the
"male womb" (uterus masculinus), which originates from the lowest
fused part of the ducts, and corresponds to the female uterus. It is a
small, flask-shaped vesicle without any physiological significance,
which opens into the ureter between the two spermaducts and the
prostate folds (vesicula prostatica).

(FIGURE 2.407. A ripe human Graafian follicle. a the mature ovum, b
the surrounding follicle-cells, c the epithelial cells of the
follicle, d the fibrous membrane of the follicle, e its outer
surface.)

The internal sexual organs of the mammals undergo very distinctive
changes of position. At first the germinal glands of both sexes lie
deep inside the ventral cavity, at the inner edge of the primitive
kidneys (Figures 2.386 g and 2.392 k), attached to the vertebral
column by a short mesentery (mesorchium in the male, mesovarium in the
female). But this primary arrangement is retained permanently only in
the Monotremes (and the lower Vertebrates). In all other mammals (both
Marsupials and Placentals) they leave their original cradle and travel
more or less far down (or behind), following the direction of a
ligament that goes from the primitive kidneys to the inguinal region
of the ventral wall. This is the inguinal ligament of the primitive
kidneys, known in the male as the Hunterian ligament (Figure 2.400
gh), and in the female as the "round maternal ligament" (Figure 2.401
r). In woman the ovaries travel more or less towards the small pelvis,
or enter into it altogether. In the male the testicles pass out of the
ventral cavity, and penetrate by the inguinal canal into a sac-shaped
fold of the outer skin. When the right and left folds ("sexual
swellings") join together they form the scrotum. The various mammals
bring before us the successive stages of this displacement. In the
elephant and the whale the testicles descend very little, and remain
underneath the kidneys. In many of the rodents and carnassia they
enter the inguinal canal. In most of the higher mammals they pass
through this into the scrotum. As a rule, the inguinal canal closes
up. When it remains open the testicles may periodically pass into the
scrotum, and withdraw into the ventral cavity again in time of rut (as
in many of the marsupials, rodents, bats, etc.).

The structure of the external sexual organs, the copulative organs
that convey the fecundating sperm from the male to the female organism
in the act of copulation, is also peculiar to the mammals. There are
no organs of this character in most of the other Vertebrates. In those
that live in water (such as the Acrania and Cyclostomes, and most of
the fishes) the ova and sperm-cells are simply ejected into the water,
where their conjunction and fertilisation are left to chance. But in
many of the fishes and amphibia, which are viviparous, there is a
direct conveyance of the male sperm into the female body; and this is
the case with all the Amniotes (reptiles, birds, and mammals). In
these the urinary and sexual organs always open originally into the
last section of the rectum, which thus forms a cloaca (Chapter 2.22).
Among the mammals this arrangement is permanent only in the
Monotremes, which take their name from it (Figure 2.399 cl). In all
the other mammals a frontal partition is developed in the cloaca (in
the human embryo about the beginning of the third month), and this
divides it into two cavities. The anterior cavity receives the
urogenital canal, and is the sole outlet of the urine and the sexual
products; the hind or anus-cavity passes the excrements only.

Even before this partition has been formed in the Marsupials and
Placentals, we see the first trace of the external sexual organs.
First a conical protuberance rises at the anterior border of the
cloaca-outlet--the sexual prominence (phallus, Figure 2.402 A, e, B,
e). At the tip it is swollen in the shape of a club ("acorn" glans).
On its under side there is a furrow, the sexual groove (sulcus
genitalis, f), and on each side of this a fold of skin, the "sexual
pad" (torus genitalis, h l). The sexual protuberance or phallus is the
chief organ of the sexual sense (Chapter 2.25); the sexual nerves
spread on it, and these are the principal organs of the specific
sexual sensation. As erectile bodies (corpora cavernosa) are developed
in the male phallus by peculiar modifications of the blood-vessels, it
becomes capable of erecting periodically on a strong accession of
blood, becoming stiff, so as to penetrate into the female vagina and
thus effect copulation. In the male the phallus becomes the penis; in
the female it becomes the much smaller clitoris; this is only found to
be very large in certain apes (Ateles). A prepuce ("foreskin") is
developed in both sexes as a protecting fold on the anterior surface
of the phallus.

(FIGURE 408. The human ovum after issuing from the Graafian follicle,
surrounded by the clinging cells of the discus proligerus (in two
radiating crowns). z ovolemma (zona pellucida, with radial porous
canals), p cytosoma (protoplasm of the cell-body, darker within,
lighter without), k nucleus of the ovum (embryonic vesicle). (From
Nagel, magnified 250 times.) (Cf. Figures 1.1 and 1.14.)

The external sexual member (phallus) is found at various stages of
development within the mammal class, both in regard to size and shape,
and the differentiation and structure of its various parts; this
applies especially to the terminal part of the phallus, the glans,
both the larger glans penis of the male and the smaller glans
clitoridis of the female. The part of the cloaca from the upper wall
of which it forms belongs to the proctodaeum, the ectodermic
invagination of the rectum (Chapter 2.27); hence its epithelial
covering can develop the same horny growths as the corneous layer of
the epidermis. Thus the glans, which is quite smooth in man and the
higher apes, is covered with spines in many of the lower apes and in
the cat, and in many of the rodents with hairs (marmot) or scales
(guinea-pig) or solid horny warts (beaver). Many of the Ungulates have
a free conical projection on the glans, and in many of the Ruminants
this "phallus-tentacle" grows into a long cone, bent hook-wise at the
base (as in the goat, antelope, gazelle, etc.). The different forms of
the phallus are connected with variations in the structure and
distribution of the sensory corpuscles--i.e. the real organs of the
sexual sense, which develop in certain papillae of the corium of the
phallus, and have been evolved from ordinary tactile corpuscles of the
corium by erotic adaptation (Chapter 2.25).

The formation of the corpora cavernosa, which cause the stiffness of
the phallus and its capability of penetrating the vagina, by certain
special structures of their spongy vascular spaces, also shows a good
deal of variety within the vertebrate stem. This stiffness is
increased in many orders of mammals (especially the carnassia and
rodents) by the ossification of a part of the fibrous body (corpus
fibrosum). This penis-bone (os priapi) is very large in the badger and
dog, and bent like a hook in the marten; it is also very large in some
of the lower apes, and protrudes far out into the glans. It is wanting
in most of the anthropoid apes; it seems to have been lost in their
case (and in man) by atrophy.

The sexual groove on the under side of the phallus receives in the
male the mouth of the urogenital canal, and is changed into a
continuation of this, becoming a closed canal by the juncture of its
parallel edges, the male urethra. In the female this only takes place
in a few cases (some of the lemurs, rodents, and moles); as a rule,
the groove remains open, and the borders of this "vestibule of the
vagina" develop into the smaller labia (nymphae). The large labia of
the female develop from the sexual pads (tori genitales), the two
parallel folds of the skin that are found on each side of the genital
groove. They join together in the male, and form the closed scrotum.
These striking differences between the two sexes cannot yet be
detected in the human embryo of the ninth week. We begin to trace them
in the tenth week of development, and they are accentuated in
proportion as the difference of the sexes develops.

Sometimes the normal juncture of the two sexual pads in the male fails
to take place, and the sexual groove may also remain open
(hypospadia). In these cases the external male genitals resemble the
female, and they are often wrongly regarded as cases of hermaphrodism.
Other malformations of various kinds are not infrequently found in the
human external sexual organs, and some of them have a great
morphological interest. The reverse of hypospadia, in which the penis
is split open below, is seen in epispadia, in which the urethra is
open above. In this case the urogenital canal opens above at the
dorsal root of the penis; in the former case down below. These and
similar obstructions interfere with a man's generative power, and thus
prejudicially affect his whole development. They clearly prove that
our history is not guided by a "kind Providence," but left to the play
of blind chance.

We must carefully distinguish the rarer cases of real hermaphrodism
from the preceding. This is only found when the essential organs of
reproduction, the genital glands of both kinds, are united in one
individual. In these cases either an ovary is developed on the right
and a testicle on the left (or vice versa); or else there are
testicles and ovaries on both sides, some more and others less
developed. As hermaphrodism was probably the original arrangement in
all the Vertebrates, and the division of the sexes only followed by
later differentiation of this, these curious cases offer no
theoretical difficulty. But they are rarely found in man and the
higher mammals. On the other hand, we constantly find the original
hermaphrodism in some of the lower Vertebrates, such as the
Myxinoides, many fishes of the perch-type (serranus), and some of the
Amphibia (ringed snake, toad). In these cases the male often has a
rudimentary ovary at the fore end of the testicle; and the female
sometimes has a rudimentary, inactive testicle. In the carp also and
some other fishes this is found occasionally. We have already seen how
traces of the earlier hemaphrodism can be traced in the passages of
the Amphibia.

Man has faithfully preserved the main features of his stem-history in
the ontogeny of his urinary and sexual organs. We can follow their
development step by step in the human embryo in the same advancing
gradation that is presented to us by the comparison of the urogenital
organs in the Acrania, Cyclostomes; Fishes, Amphibia, Reptiles, and
then (within the mammal series) in the Monotremes, Marsupials, and the
various Placentals. All the peculiarities of urogenital structure that
distinguish the mammals from the rest of the Vertebrates are found in
man; and in all special structural features he resembles the apes,
particularly the anthropoid apes. In proof of the fact that the
special features of the mammals have been inherited by man, I will, in
conclusion, point out the identical way in which the ova are formed in
the ovary. In all the mammals the mature ova are contained in special
capsules, which are known as the Graafian
follicles, after their discoverer, Roger de Graaf (1677). They were
formerly supposed to be the ova themselves; but Baer discovered the
ova within the follicles (Chapter 1.3). Each follicle (Figure 2.407)
consists of a round fibrous capsule (d), which contains fluid and is
lined with several strata of cells (c). The layer is thickened like a
knob at one point (b); this ovum-capsule encloses the ovum proper (a).
The mammal ovary is originally a very simple oval body (Figure 2.387
g), formed only of connective tissue and blood-vessels, covered with a
layer of cells, the ovarian epithelium or the female germ epithelium.
From this germ epithelium strings of cells grow out into the
connective tissue or "stroma" of the ovary (Figure 2.403 b). Some of
the cells of these strings (or Pfluger's tubes) grow larger and become
ova (primitive ova, c); but the great majority remain small, and form
a protective and nutritive stratum of cells round each ovum--the
"follicle-epithelium" (e).

The follicle-epithelium of the mammal has at first one stratum (Figure
2.404 1), but afterwards several (2). It is true that in all the other
Vertebrates the ova are enclosed in a membrane, or "follicle," that
consists of smaller cells. But it is only in the mammals that fluid
accumulates between the growing follicle-cells, and distends the
follicle into a large round capsule, on the inside wall of which the
ovum lies, at one side (Figures 2.405 and 2.406). There again, as in
the whole of his morphology, man proves indubitably his descent from
the mammals.

In the lower Vertebrates the formation of ova in the germ-epithelium
of the ovary continues throughout life; but in the higher it is
restricted to the earlier stages, or even to the period of embryonic
development. In man it seems to cease in the first year; in the second
year we find no new-formed ova or chains of ova (Pfluger's tubes).
However, the number of ova in the two ovaries is very large in the
young girl; there are calculated to be 72,000 in the sexually-mature
maiden. In the production of the ova men resemble most of the
anthropoid apes.

Generally speaking, the natural history of the human sexual organs is
one of those parts of anthropology that furnish the most convincing
proofs of the animal origin of the human race. Any man who is
acquainted with the facts and impartially weighs them will conclude
from them alone that we have been evolved from the lower Vertebrates.
The larger and the detailed structure, the action, and the
embryological development of the sexual organs are just the same in
man as in the apes. This applies equally to the male and the female,
the internal and the external organs. The differences we find in this
respect between man and the anthropoid apes are much slighter than the
differences between the various species of apes. But all the apes have
certainly a common origin, and have been evolved from a long-extinct
early-Tertiary stem-form, which we must trace to a branch of the
lemurs. If we had this unknown pithecoid stem-form before us, we
should certainly put it in the order of the true apes in the primate
system; but within this order we cannot, for the anatomic and
ontogenetic reasons we have seen, separate man from the group of the
anthropoid apes. Here again, therefore, on the ground of the
pithecometra-principle, comparative anatomy and ontogeny teach with
full confidence the descent of man from the ape.


CHAPTER 2.30. RESULTS OF ANTHROPOGENY.

Now that we have traversed the wonderful region of human embryology
and are familiar with the principal parts of it, it will be well to
look back on the way we have come, and forward to the further path to
truth to which it has led us. We started from the simplest facts of
ontogeny, or the development of the individual--from observations that
we can repeat and verify by microscopic and anatomic study at any
moment. The first and most important of these facts is that every man,
like every other animal, begins his existence as a simple cell. This
round ovum has the same characteristic form and origin as the ovum of
any other mammal. From it is developed in the same manner in all the
Placentals, by repeated cleavage, a multicellular blastula. This is
converted into a gastrula, and this in turn into a blastocystis (or
embryonic vesicle). The two strata of cells that compose its wall are
the primary germinal layers, the skin-layer (ectoderm), and gut-layer
(entoderm). This two-layered embryonic form is the ontogenetic
reproduction of the extremely important phylogenetic stem-form of all
the Metazoa, which we have called the Gastraea. As the human embryo
passes through the gastrula-form like that of all the other Metazoa,
we can trace its phylogenetic origin to the Gastraea.

As we continued to follow the embryonic development of the two-layered
structure, we saw that first a third, or middle layer (mesoderm),
appears between the two primary layers; when this divides into two, we
have the four secondary germinal layers. These have just the same
composition and genetic significance in man as in all the other
Vertebrates. From the skin-sense layer are developed the epidermis,
the central nervous system, and the chief part of the sense-organs.
The skin-fibre layer forms the corium and the motor organs--the
skeleton and the muscular system. From the gut-fibre layer are
developed the vascular system, the muscular wall of the gut, and the
sexual glands. Finally, the gut-gland layer only forms the epithelium,
or the inner cellular stratum of the mucous membrane of the alimentary
canal and glands (lungs, liver, etc.).

The manner in which these different systems of organs arise from the
secondary germinal layers is essentially the same from the start in
man as in all the other Vertebrates. We saw, in studying the embryonic
development of each organ, that the human embryo follows the special
lines of differentiation and construction that are only found
otherwise in the Vertebrates. Within the limits of this vast stem we
have followed, step by step, the development both of the body as a
whole and of its various parts. This higher development follows in the
human embryo the form that is peculiar to the mammals. Finally, we saw
that, even within the limits of this class, the various phylogenetic
stages that we distinguish in a natural classification of the mammals
correspond to the ontogenetic stages that the human embryo passes
through in the course of its evolution. We were thus in a position to
determine precisely the position of man in this class, and so to
establish his relationship to the different orders of mammals.

The line of argument we followed in this explanation of the
ontogenetic facts was simply a consistent application of the
biogenetic law. In this we have throughout taken strict account of the
distinction between palingenetic and cenogenetic phenomena.
Palingenesis (or "synoptic development") alone enables us to draw
conclusions from the observed embryonic form to the stem-form
preserved by heredity. Such inference becomes more or less precarious
when there has been cenogenesis, or disturbance of development, owing
to fresh adaptations. We cannot understand embryonic development
unless we appreciate this very important distinction. Here we stand at
the very limit that separates the older and the new science or
philosophy of nature. The whole of the results of recent morphological
research compel us irresistibly to recognise the biogenetic law and
its far-reaching consequences. These are, it is true, irreconcilable
with the legends and doctrines of former days, that have been
impressed on us by religious education. But without the biogenetic
law, without the distinction between palingenesis and cenogenesis, and
without the theory of evolution on which we base it, it is quite
impossible to understand the facts of organic development; without
them we cannot cast the faintest gleam of explanation over this
marvellous field of phenomena. But when we recognise the causal
correlation of ontogeny and phylogeny expressed in this law, the
wonderful facts of embryology are susceptible of a very simple
explanation; they are found to be the necessary mechanical effects of
the evolution of the stem, determined by the laws of heredity and
adaptation. The correlative action of these laws under the universal
influence of the struggle for existence, or--as we may say in a word,
with Darwin--"natural selection," is entirely adequate to explain the
whole process of embryology in the light of phylogeny. It is the chief
merit of Darwin that he explained by his theory of selection the
correlation of the laws of heredity and adaptation that Lamarck had
recognised, and pointed out the true way to reach a causal
interpretation of evolution.

The phenomenon that it is most imperative to recognise in this
connection is the inheritance of functional variations. Jean Lamarck
was the first to appreciate its fundamental importance in 1809, and we
may therefore justly give the name of Lamarckism to the theory of
descent he based on it. Hence the radical opponents of the latter have
very properly directed their attacks chiefly against the former. One
of the most distinguished and most narrow-minded of these opponents,
Wilhelm His, affirms very positively that "characteristics acquired in
the life of the individual are not inherited."

The inheritance of acquired characters is denied, not only by thorough
opponents of evolution, but even by scientists who admit it and have
contributed a good deal to its establishment, especially Weismann,
Galton, Ray Lankester, etc. Since 1884 the chief opponent has been
August Weismann, who has rendered the greatest service in the
development of Darwin's theory of selection. In his work on The
Continuity of the Germ-plasm, and in his recent excellent Lectures on
the Theory of Descent (1902), he has with great success advanced the
opinion that "only those characters can be transmitted to subsequent
generations that were contained in rudimentary form in the embryo."
However, this germ-plasm theory, with its attempt to explain heredity,
is merely a "provisional molecular hypothesis"; it is one of those
metaphysical speculations that attribute the evolutionary phenomena
exclusively to internal causes, and regard the influence of the
environment as insignificant. Herbert Spencer, Theodor Eimer, Lester
Ward, Hering, and Zehnder have pointed out the untenable consequences
of this position. I have given my view of it in the tenth edition of
the History of Creation (pages 192 and 203). I hold, with Lamarck and
Darwin, that the hereditary transmission of acquired characters is one
of the most important phenomena in biology, and is proved by thousands
of morphological and physiological experiences. It is an indispensable
foundation of the theory of evolution.

Of the many and weighty arguments for the truth of this conception of
evolution I will for the moment merely point to the invaluable
evidence of dysteleology, the science of rudimentary organs. We cannot
insist too often or too strongly on the great morphological
significance of these remarkable organs, which are completely useless
from the physiological point of view. We find some of these useless
parts, inherited from our lower vertebrate ancestors, in every system
of organs in man and the higher Vertebrates. Thus we find at once on
the skin a scanty and rudimentary coat of hair, only fully developed
on the head, under the shoulders, and at a few other parts of the
body. The short hairs on the greater part of the body are quite
useless and devoid of physiological value; they are the last relic of
the thicker hairy coat of our simian ancestors. The sensory apparatus
presents a series of most remarkable rudimentary organs. We have seen
that the whole of the shell of the external ear, with its cartilages,
muscles, and skin, is in man a useless appendage, and has not the
physiological importance that was formerly ascribed to it. It is the
degenerate remainder of the pointed, freely moving, and more advanced
mammal ear, the muscles of which we still have, but cannot work them.
We found at the inner corner of our eye a small, curious, semi-lunar
fold that is of no use whatever to us, and is only interesting as the
last relic of the nictitating membrane, the third, inner eye-lid that
had a distinct physiological purpose in the ancient sharks, and still
has in many of the Amniotes.

The motor apparatus, in both the skeleton and muscular systems,
provides a number of interesting dysteleological arguments. I need
only recall the projecting tail of the human embryo, with its
rudimentary caudal vertebrae and muscles; this is totally useless in
man, but very interesting as the degenerate relic of the long tail of
our simian ancestors. From these we have also inherited various bony
processes and muscles, which were very useful to them in climbing
trees, but are useless to us. At various points of the skin we have
cutaneous muscles which we never use--remnants of a strongly-developed
cutaneous muscle in our lower mammal ancestors. This "panniculus
carnosus" had the function of contracting and creasing the skin to
chase away the flies, as we see every day in the horse. Another relic
in us of this large cutaneous muscle is the frontal muscle, by which
we knit our forehead and raise our eye-brows; but there is another
considerable relic of it, the large cutaneous muscle in the neck
(platysma myoides), over which we have no voluntary control.

Not only in the systems of animal organs, but also in the vegetal
apparatus, we find a number of rudimentary organs, many of which we
have already noticed. In the alimentary apparatus there are the
thymus-gland and the thyroid gland, the seat of goitre and the relic
of a ciliated groove that the Tunicates and Acrania still have in the
gill-pannier; there is also the vermiform appendix to the caecum. In
the vascular system we have a number of useless cords which represent
relics of atrophied vessels that were once active as blood-canals--the
ductus Botalli between the pulmonary artery and the aorta, the ductus
venosus Arantii between the portal vein and the vena cava, and many
others. The many rudimentary organs in the urinary and sexual
apparatus are particularly interesting. These are generally developed
in one sex and rudimentary in the other. Thus the spermaducts are
formed from the Wolffian ducts in the male, whereas in the female we
have merely rudimentary traces of them in Gaertner's canals. On the
other hand, in the female the oviducts and womb are developed from the
Mullerian ducts, while in the male only the lowest ends of them remain
as the "male womb" (vesicula prostatica). Again, the male has in his
nipples and mammary glands the rudiments of organs that are usually
active only in the female.

A careful anatomic study of the human frame would disclose to us
numbers of other rudimentary organs, and these can only be explained
on the theory of evolution. Robert Wiedersheim has collected a large
number of them in his work on The Human Frame as a Witness to its
Past. They are some of the weightiest proofs of the truth of the
mechanical conception and the strongest disproofs of the teleological
view. If, as the latter demands, man or any other organism had been
designed and fitted for his life-purposes from the start and brought
into being by a creative act, the existence of these rudimentary
organs would be an insoluble enigma; it would be impossible to
understand why the Creator had put this useless burden on his
creatures to walk a path that is in itself by no means easy. But the
theory of evolution gives the simplest possible explanation of them.
It says: The rudimentary organs are parts of the body that have fallen
into disuse in the course of centuries; they had definite functions in
our animal ancestors, but have lost their physiological significance.
On account of fresh adaptations they have become superfluous, but are
transmitted from generation to generation by heredity, and gradually
atrophy.

We have inherited not only these rudimentary parts, but all the organs
of our body, from the mammals--proximately from the apes. The human
body does not contain a single organ that has not been inherited from
the apes. In fact, with the aid of our biogenetic law we can trace the
origin of our various systems of organs much further, down to the
lowest stages of our ancestry. We can say, for instance, that we have
inherited the oldest organs of the body, the external skin and the
internal coat of the alimentary system, from the Gastraeads; the
nervous and muscular systems from the Platodes; the vascular system,
the body-cavity, and the blood from the Vermalia; the chorda and the
branchial gut from the Prochordonia; the articulation of the body from
the Acrania; the primitive skull and the higher sense-organs from the
Cyclostomes; the limbs and jaws from the Selachii; the five-toed foot
from the Amphibia; the palate from the Reptiles; the hairy coat, the
mammary glands, and the external sexual organs from the Pro-mammals.
When we formulated "the law of the ontogenetic connection of
systematically related forms," and determined the relative age of
organs, we saw how it was possible to draw phylogenetic conclusions
from the ontogenetic succession of systems of organs.

With the aid of this important law and of comparative anatomy we were
also enabled to determine "man's place in nature," or, as we put it,
assign to man his position in the classification of the animal
kingdom. In recent zoological classification the animal world is
divided into twelve stems or phyla, and these are broadly sub-divided
into about sixty classes, and these classes into at least 300 orders.
In his whole organisation man is most certainly, in the first place, a
member of one of these stems, the vertebrate stem; secondly, a member
of one particular class in this stem, the Mammals; and thirdly, of one
particular order, the order of Primates. He has all the
characteristics that distinguish the Vertebrates from the other eleven
animal stems, the Mammals from the other sixty classes, and the
Primates from the 300 other orders of the animal kingdom. We may turn
and twist as we like, but we cannot get over this fact of anatomy and
classification. Of late years this fact has given rise to a good deal
of discussion, and especially of controversy as to the particular
anatomic relationship of man to the apes. The most curious opinions
have been advanced on this "ape-question," or "pithecoid-theory." It
is as well, therefore, to go into it once more and distinguish the
essential from the unessential. (Cf. Chapter 2.23.)

We start from the undisputed fact that man is in any case--whether we
accept or reject his special blood-relationship to the apes--a true
mammal; in fact, a placental mammal. This fundamental fact can be
proved so easily at any moment from comparative anatomy that it has
been universally admitted since the separation of the Placentals from
the lower mammals (Marsupials and Monotremes). But for every
consistent subscriber to the theory of evolution it must follow at
once that man descends from a common stem-form with all the other
Placentals, the stem-ancestor of the Placentals, just as we must admit
a common mesozoic ancestor of all the mammals. This is, however, to
settle decisively the great and burning question of man's place in
nature, whether or no we go on to admit a nearer or more distant
relationship to the apes. Whether man is or is not a member of the
ape-order (or, if you prefer, the primate-order.) in the phylogenetic
sense, in any case his direct blood-relationship to the rest of the
mammals, and especially the Placentals, is established. It is possible
that the affinities of the various orders of mammals to each other are
different from what we hypothetically assume to-day. But, in any case,
the common descent of man and all the other mammals from one stem-form
is beyond question. This long-extinct Promammal was probably evolved
from Proreptiles during the Triassic period, and must certainly be
regarded as the monotreme and oviparous ancestor of ALL the mammals.

If we hold firmly to this fundamental and most important thesis, we
shall see the "ape-question" in a very different light from that in
which it is usually regarded. Little reflection is then needed to see
that it is not nearly so important as it is said to be. The origin of
the human race from a series of mammal ancestors, and the historic
evolution of these from an earlier series of lower vertebrate
ancestors, together with all the weighty conclusions that every
thoughtful man deduces therefrom, remain untouched; so far as these
are concerned, it is immaterial whether we regard true "apes" as our
nearest ancestors or not. But as it has become the fashion to lay the
chief stress in the whole question of man's origin on the "descent
from the apes," I am compelled to return to it once more, and recall
the facts of comparative anatomy and ontogeny that give a decisive
answer to this "ape-question."

The shortest way to attain our purpose is that followed by Huxley in
1863 in his able work, which I have already often quoted, Man's Place
in Nature--the way of comparative anatomy and ontogeny. We have to
compare impartially all man's organs with the same organs in the
higher apes, and then to examine if the differences between the two
are greater than the corresponding differences between the higher and
the lower apes. The indubitable and incontestable result of this
comparative-anatomical study, conducted with the greatest care and
impartiality, was the pithecometra-principle, which we have called the
Huxleian law in honour of its formulator--namely, that the differences
in organisation between man and the most advanced apes we know are
much slighter than the corresponding differences in organisation
between the higher and lower apes. We may even give a more precise
formula to this law, by excluding the Platyrrhines or American apes as
distant relatives, and restricting the comparison to the narrower
family-circle of the Catarrhines, the apes of the Old World. Within
the limits of this small group of mammals we found the structural
differences between the lower and higher catarrhine apes--for
instance, the baboon and the gorilla--to be much greater than the
differences between the anthropoid apes and man. If we now turn to
ontogeny, and find, according to our "law of the ontogenetic
connection of systematically related forms," that the embryos of the
anthropoid apes and man retain their resemblance for a longer time
than the embryos of the highest and the lowest apes, we are forced,
whether we like it or no, to recognise our descent from the order of
apes. We can assuredly construct an approximate picture in the
imagination of the form of our early Tertiary ancestors from the
foregoing facts of comparative anatomy; however we may frame this in
detail, it will be the picture of a true ape, and a distinct
catarrhine ape. This has been shown so well by Huxley (1863) that the
recent attacks of Klaatsch, Virchow, and other anthropologists, have
completely failed (cf. Chapter 2.23). All the structural characters
that distinguish the Catarrhines from the Platyrrhines are found in
man. Hence in the genealogy of the mammals we must derive man
immediately from the catarrhine group, and locate the origin of the
human race in the Old World. Only the early root-form from which both
descended was common to them.

It is, therefore, established beyond question for all impartial
scientific inquiry that the human race comes directly from the apes of
the Old World; but, at the same time, I repeat that this is not so
important in connection with the main question of the origin of man as
is commonly supposed. Even if we entirely ignore it, all that we have
learned from the zoological facts of comparative anatomy and ontogeny
as to the placental character of man remains untouched. These prove
beyond all doubt the common descent of man and all the rest of the
mammals. Further, the main question is not in the least affected if it
is said: "It is true that man is a mammal; but he has diverged at the
very root of the class from all the other mammals, and has no closer
relationship to any living group of mammals." The affinity is more or
less close in any case, if we examine the relation of the mammal class
to the sixty other classes of the animal world. Quite certainly the
whole of the mammals, including man, have had a common origin; and it
is equally certain that their common stem-forms were gradually evolved
from a long series of lower Vertebrates.

The resistance to the theory of a descent from the apes is clearly due
in most men to feeling rather than to reason. They shrink from the
notion of such an origin just because they see in the ape organism a
caricature of man, a distorted and unattractive image of themselves,
because it hurts man's aesthetic complacency and self-ennoblement. It
is more flattering to think we have descended from some lofty and
god-like being; and so, from the earliest times, human vanity has been
pleased to believe in our origin from gods or demi-gods. The Church,
with that sophistic reversal of ideas of which it is a master, has
succeeded in representing this ridiculous piece of vanity as
"Christian humility"; and the very men who reject with horror the
notion of an animal origin, and count themselves "children of God,"
love to prate of their "humble sense of servitude." In most of the
sermons that have poured out from pulpit and altar against the
doctrine of evolution human vanity and conceit have been a conspicuous
element; and, although we have inherited this very characteristic
weakness from the apes, we must admit that we have developed it to a
higher degree, which is entirely repudiated by sound and normal
intelligence. We are greatly amused at all the childish follies that
the ridiculous pride of ancestry has maintained from the Middle Ages
to our own time; yet there is a large amount of this empty feeling in
most men. Just as most people much prefer to trace their family back
to some degenerate baron or some famous prince rather than to an
unknown peasant, so most men would rather have as parent of the race a
sinful and fallen Adam than an advancing, and vigorous ape. It is a
matter of taste, and to that extent we cannot quarrel over these
genealogical tendencies. Personally, the notion of ascent is more
congenial to me than that of descent. It seems to me a finer thing to
be the advanced offspring of a simian ancestor, that has developed
progressively from the lower mammals in the struggle for life, than
the degenerate descendant of a god-like being, made from a clod, and
fallen for his sins, and an Eve created from one of his ribs. Speaking
of the rib, I may add to what I have said about the development of the
skeleton, that the number of ribs is just the same in man and woman.
In both of them the ribs are formed from the middle germinal layer,
and are, from the phylogenetic point of view, lower or ventral
vertebral arches.

But it is said: "That is all very well, as far as the human body is
concerned; on the facts quoted it is impossible to doubt that it has
really and gradually been evolved from the long ancestral series of
the Vertebrates. But it is quite another thing as regards man's mind,
or soul; this cannot possibly have been developed from the
vertebrate-soul."* (* The English reader will recognise here the
curious position of Dr. Wallace and of the late Dr.
Mivart.--Translator.) Let us see if we cannot meet this grave
stricture from the well-known facts of comparative anatomy,
physiology, and embryology. It will be best to begin with a
comparative study of the souls of various groups of Vertebrates. Here
we find such an enormous variety of vertebrate souls that, at first
sight, it seems quite impossible to trace them all to a common
"Primitive Vertebrate." Think of the tiny Amphioxus, with no real
brain but a simple medullary tube, and its whole psychic life at the
very lowest stage among the Vertebrates. The following group of the
Cyclostomes are still very limited, though they have a brain. When we
pass on to the fishes, we find their intelligence remaining at a very
low level. We do not see any material advance in mental development
until we go on to the Amphibia and Reptiles. There is still greater
advance when we come to the Mammals, though even here the minds of the
Monotremes and of the stupid Marsupials remain at a low stage. But
when we rise from these to the Placentals we find within this one vast
group such a number of important stages of differentiation and
progress that the psychic differences between the least intelligent
(such as the sloths and armadillos) and the most intelligent
Placentals (such as the dogs and apes) are much greater than the
psychic differences between the lowest Placentals and the Marsupials
or Monotremes. Most certainly the differences are far greater than the
differences in mental power between the dog, the ape, and man. Yet all
these animals are genetically-related members of a single natural
class.

We see this to a still more astonishing extent in the comparative
psychology of another class of animals, that is especially interesting
for many reasons--the insect class. It is well known that we find in
many insects a degree of intelligence that is found in man alone among
the Vertebrates. Everybody knows of the famous communities and states
of bees and ants, and of the very remarkable social arrangements in
them, such as we find among the more advanced races of men, but among
no other group of animals. I need only mention the social organisation
and government of the monarchic bees and the republican ants, and
their division into different conditions--queen, drone-nobles,
workers, educators, soldiers, etc. One of the most remarkable
phenomena in this very interesting province is the cattle-keeping of
the ants, which rear plant-lice as milch-cows and regularly extract
their honeyed juice. Still more remarkable is the slave-holding of the
large red ants, which steal the young of the small black ants and
bring them up as slaves. It has long been known that these political
and social arrangements of the ants are due to the deliberate
cooperation of the countless citizens, and that they understand each
other. A number of recent observers, especially Fritz Muller, Sir J.
Lubbock (Lord Avebury), and August Forel, have put the astonishing
degree of intelligence of these tiny Articulates beyond question.

Now, compare with these the mental life of many of the lower,
especially the parasitic insects, as Darwin did. There is, for
instance, the cochineal insect (Coccus), which, in its adult state,
has a motionless, shield-shaped body, attached to the leaves of
plants. Its feet are atrophied. Its snout is sunk in the tissue of the
plants of which it absorbs the sap. The whole psychic life of these
inert female parasites consists in the pleasure they experience from
sucking the sap of the plant and in sexual intercourse with the males.
It is the same with the maggot-like females of the fan-fly
(Strepsitera), which spend their lives parasitically and immovably,
without wings or feet, in the abdomen of wasps. There is no question
here of higher psychic action. If we compare these sluggish parasites
with the intelligent and active ants, we must admit that the psychic
differences between them are much greater than the psychic differences
between the lowest and highest mammals, between the Monotremes,
Marsupials, and armadillos on the one hand, and the dog, ape, or man
on the other. Yet all these insects belong to the same class of
Articulates, just as all the mammals belong to one and the same class.
And just as every consistent evolutionist must admit a common
stem-form for all these insects, so he must also for all the mammals.

If we now turn from the comparative study of psychic life in different
animals to the question of the organs of this function, we receive the
answer that in all the higher animals they are always bound up with
certain groups of cells, the ganglionic cells or neurona that compose
the nervous system. All scientists without exception are agreed that
the central nervous system is the organ of psychic life in the animal,
and it is possible to prove this experimentally at any moment. When we
partially or wholly destroy the central nervous system, we extinguish
in the same proportion, partially or wholly, the "soul" or psychic
activity of the animal. We have, therefore, to examine the features of
the psychic organ in man. The reader already knows the incontestable
answer to this question. Man's psychic organ is, in structure and
origin, just the same organ as in all the other Vertebrates. It
originates in the shape of a simple medullary tube from the outer
membrane of the embryo--the skin-sense layer. The simple cerebral
vesicle that is formed by the expansion of the head-part of this
medullary tube divides by transverse constrictions into five, and
these pass through more or less the same stages of construction in the
human embryo as in the rest of the mammals. As these are undoubtedly
of a common origin, their brain and spinal cord must also have a
common origin.

Physiology teaches us further, on the ground of observation and
experiment, that the relation of the "soul" to its organ, the brain
and spinal cord, is just the same in man as in the other mammals. The
one cannot act at all without the other; it is just as much bound up
with it as muscular movement is with the muscles. It can only develop
in connection with it. If we are evolutionists at all, and grant the
causal connection of ontogenesis and phylogenesis, we are forced to
admit this thesis: The human soul or psyche, as a function of the
medullary tube, has developed along with it; and just as brain and
spinal cord now develop from the simple medullary tube in every human
individual, so the human mind or the psychic life of the whole human
race has been gradually evolved from the lower vertebrate soul. Just
as to-day the intricate structure of the brain proceeds step by step
from the same rudiment in every human individual--the same five
cerebral vesicles--as in all the other Craniotes; so the human soul
has been gradually developed in the course of millions of years from a
long series of craniote-souls. Finally, just as to-day in every human
embryo the various parts of the brain differentiate after the special
type of the ape-brain, so the human psyche has proceeded historically
from the ape-soul.

It is true that this Monistic conception is rejected with horror by
most men, and the Dualistic idea, which denies the inseparable
connection of brain and mind, and regards body and soul as two totally
different things, is still popular. But how can we reconcile this view
with the known facts of evolution? It meets with difficulties equally
great and insuperable in embryology and in phylogeny. If we suppose
with the majority of men that the soul is an independent entity, which
has nothing to do with the body originally, but merely inhabits it for
a time, and gives expression to its experiences through the brain just
as the pianist does through his instrument, we must assign a point in
human embryology at which the soul enters into the brain; and at death
again we must assign a moment at which it abandons the body. As,
further, each human individual has inherited certain personal features
from each parent, we must suppose that in the act of conception pieces
were detached from their souls and transferred to the embryo. A piece
of the paternal soul goes with-the spermatozoon, and a piece of the
mother's soul remains in the ovum. At the moment of conception, when
portions of the two nuclei of the copulating cells join together to
form the nucleus of the stem-cell, the accompanying fragments of the
immaterial souls must also be supposed to coalesce.

On this Dualistic view the phenomena of psychic development are
totally incomprehensible. Everybody knows that the new-born child has
no consciousness, no knowledge of itself and the surrounding world.
Every parent who has impartially followed the mental development of
his children will find it impossible to deny that it is a case of
biological evolutionary processes. Just as all other functions of the
body develop in connection with their organs, so the soul does in
connection with the brain. This gradual unfolding of the soul of the
child is, in fact, so wonderful and glorious a phenomenon that every
mother or father who has eyes to observe is never tired of
contemplating it. It is only our manuals of psychology that know
nothing of this development; we are almost tempted to think sometimes
that their authors can never have had children themselves. The human
soul, as described in most of our psychological works, is merely the
soul of a learned philosopher, who has read a good many books, but
knows nothing of evolution, and never even reflects that his own soul
has had a development.

When these Dualistic philosophers are consistent they must assign a
moment in the phylogeny of the human soul at which it was first
"introduced" into man's vertebrate body. Hence, at the time when the
human body was evolved from the anthropoid body of the ape (probably
in the Tertiary period), a specific human psychic element--or, as
people love to say, "a spark of divinity"--must have been suddenly
infused or breathed into the anthropoid brain, and been associated
with the ape-soul already present in it. I need not insist on the
enormous theoretical difficulties of this idea. I will only point out
that this "spark of divinity," which is supposed to distinguish the
soul of man from that of the other animals, must be itself capable of
development, and has, as a matter of fact, progressively developed in
the course of human history. As a rule, reason is taken to be this
"spark of divinity," and is supposed to be an exclusive possession of
humanity. But comparative psychology shows us that it is quite
impossible to set up this barrier between man and the brute. Either we
take the word "reason" in the wider sense, and then it is found in the
higher mammals (ape, dog, elephant, horse) just as well as in most
men; or else in the narrower sense, and then it is lacking in most men
just as much as in the majority of animals. On the whole, we may still
say of man's reason what Goethe's Mephistopheles said:--

        Life somewhat better might content him
        But for the gleam of heavenly light that Thou hast given him.
        He calls it reason; thence his power's increased
        To be still beastlier than any beast.

If, then, we must reject these popular and, in some respects,
agreeable Dualistic theories as untenable, because inconsistent with
the genetic facts, there remains only the opposite or Monistic
conception, according to which the human soul is, like any other
animal soul, a function of the central nervous system, and develops in
inseparable connection therewith. We see this ontogenetically in every
child. The biogenetic law compels us to affirm it phylogenetically.
Just as in every human embryo the skin-sense layer gives rise to the
medullary tube, from the anterior end of which the five cerebral
vesicles of the Craniotes are developed, and from these the mammal
brain (first with the characters of the lower, then with those of the
higher mammals); and as the whole of this ontogenetic process is only
a brief, hereditary reproduction of the same process in the
phylogenesis of the Vertebrates; so the wonderful spiritual life of
the human race through many thousands of years has been evolved step
by step from the lowly psychic life of the lower Vertebrates, and the
development of every child-soul is only a brief repetition of that
long and complex phylogenetic process. From all these facts sound
reason must conclude that the still prevalent belief in the
immortality of the soul is an untenable superstition. I have shown its
inconsistency with modern science in the eleventh chapter of The
Riddle of the Universe.

Here it may also be well to point out the great importance of
anthropogeny, in the light of the biogenetic law, for the purposes of
philosophy. The speculative philosophers who take cognizance of these
ontogenetic facts, and explain them (in accordance with the law)
phylogenetically, will advance the great questions of philosophy far
more than the most distinguished thinkers of all ages have yet
succeeded in doing. Most certainly every clear and consistent thinker
must derive from the facts of comparative anatomy and ontogeny we have
adduced a number of suggestive ideas that cannot fail to have an
influence on the progress of philosophy. Nor can it be doubted that
the candid statement and impartial appreciation of these facts will
lead to the decisive triumph of the philosophic tendency that we call
"Monistic" or "Mechanical," as opposed to the "Dualistic" or
"Teleological," on which most of the ancient, medieval, and modern
systems of philosophy are based. The Monistic or Mechanical philosophy
affirms that all the phenomena of human life and of the rest of nature
are ruled by fixed and unalterable laws; that there is everywhere a
necessary causal connection of phenomena; and that, therefore, the
whole knowable universe is a harmonious unity, a monon. It says,
further, that all phenomena are due solely to mechanical or efficient
causes, not to final causes. It does not admit free-will in the
ordinary sense of the word. In the light of the Monistic philosophy
the phenomena that we are wont to regard as the freest and most
independent, the expressions of the human will, are subject just as
much to rigid laws as any other natural phenomenon. As a matter of
fact, impartial and thorough examination of our "free" volitions shows
that they are never really free, but always determined by antecedent
factors that can be traced to either heredity or adaptation. We
cannot, therefore, admit the conventional distinction between nature
and spirit. There is spirit everywhere in nature, and we know of no
spirit outside of nature. Hence, also, the common antithesis of
natural science and mental or moral science is untenable. Every
science, as such, is both natural and mental. That is a firm principle
of Monism, which, on its religious side, we may also denominate
Pantheism. Man is not above, but in, nature.

It is true that the opponents of evolution love to misrepresent the
Monistic philosophy based on it as "Materialism," and confuse the
philosophic tendency of this name with a wholly unconnected and
despicable moral materialism. Strictly speaking, it would be just as
proper to call our system Spiritualism as Materialism. The real
Materialistic philosophy affirms that the phenomena of life are, like
all other phenomena, effects or products of matter. The opposite
extreme, the Spiritualistic philosophy, says, on the contrary, that
matter is a product of energy, and that all material forms are
produced by free and independent forces. Thus, according to one-sided
Materialism, the matter is antecedent to the living force; according
to the equally one-sided view of the Spiritist, it is the reverse.
Both views are Dualistic, and, in my opinion, both are false. For us
the antithesis disappears in the Monistic philosophy, which knows
neither matter without force nor force without matter. It is only
necessary to reflect for some time over the question from the strictly
scientific point of view to see that it is impossible to form a clear
idea of either hypothesis. As Goethe said, "Matter can never exist or
act without spirit, nor spirit without matter."

The human "spirit" or "soul" is merely a force or form of energy,
inseparably bound up with the material sub-stratum of the body. The
thinking force of the mind is just as much connected with the
structural elements of the brain as the motor force of the muscles
with their structural elements. Our mental powers are functions of the
brain as much as any other force is a function of a material body. We
know of no matter that is devoid of force, and no forces that are not
bound up with matter. When the forces enter into the phenomenon as
movements we call them living or active forces; when they are in a
state of rest or equilibrium we call them latent or potential. This
applies equally to inorganic and organic bodies. The magnet that
attracts iron filings, the powder that explodes, the steam that drives
the locomotive, are living inorganics; they act by living force as
much as the sensitive Mimosa does when it contracts its leaves at
touch, or the venerable Amphioxus that buries itself in the sand of
the sea, or man when he thinks. Only in the latter cases the
combinations of the different forces that appear as "movement" in the
phenomenon are much more intricate and difficult to analyse than in
the former.

Our study has led us to the conclusion that in the whole evolution of
man, in his embryology and in his phylogeny, there are no living
forces at work other than those of the rest of organic and inorganic
nature. All the forces that are operative in it could be reduced in
the ultimate analysis to growth, the fundamental evolutionary function
that brings about the forms of both the organic and the inorganic. But
growth itself depends on the attraction and repulsion of homogeneous
and heterogeneous particles. Seventy-five years ago Carl Ernst von
Baer summed up the general result of his classic studies of animal
development in the sentence: "The evolution of the individual is the
history of the growth of individuality in every respect." And if we go
deeper to the root of this law of growth, we find that in the long run
it can always be reduced to that attraction and repulsion of animated
atoms which Empedocles called the "love and hatred" of the elements.

Thus the evolution of man is directed by the same "eternal, iron laws"
as the development of any other body. These laws always lead us back
to the same simple principles, the elementary principles of physics
and chemistry. The various phenomena of nature only differ in the
degree of complexity in which the different forces work together. Each
single process of adaptation and heredity in the stem-history of our
ancestors is in itself a very complex physiological phenomenon. Far
more intricate are the processes of human embryology; in these are
condensed and comprised thousands of the phylogenetic processes.

In my General Morphology, which appeared in 1866, I made the first
attempt to apply the theory of evolution, as reformed by Darwin, to
the whole province of biology, and especially to provide with its
assistance a mechanical foundation for the science of organic forms.
The intimate relations that exist between all parts of organic
science, especially the direct causal nexus between the two sections
of evolution--ontogeny and phylogeny--were explained in that work for
the first time by transformism, and were interpreted philosophically
in the light of the theory of descent. The anthropological part of the
General Morphology (Book 7) contains the first attempt to determine
the series of man's ancestors (volume 2 page 428). However imperfect
this attempt was, it provided a starting-point for further
investigation. In the thirty-seven years that have since elapsed the
biological horizon has been enormously widened; our empirical
acquisitions in paleontology, comparative anatomy, and ontogeny have
grown to an astonishing extent, thanks to the united efforts of a
number of able workers and the employment of better methods. Many
important biological questions that then appeared to be obscure
enigmas seem to be entirely settled. Darwinism arose like the dawn of
a new day of clear Monistic science after the dark night of mystic
dogmatism, and we can say now, proudly and gladly, that there is
daylight in our field of inquiry.

Philosophers and others, who are equally ignorant of the empirical
sources of our evidence and the phylogenetic methods of utilising it,
have even lately claimed that in the matter of constructing our
genealogical tree nothing more has been done than the discovery of a
"gallery of ancestors," such as we find in the mansions of the
nobility. This would be quite true if the genealogy given in the
second part of this work were merely the juxtaposition of a series of
animal forms, of which we gathered the genetic connection from their
external physiognomic resemblances. As we have sufficiently proved
already, it is for us a question of a totally different thing--of the
morphological and historical proof of the phylogenetic connection of
these ancestors on the basis of their identity in internal structure
and embryonic development; and I think I have sufficiently shown in
the first part of this work how far this is calculated to reveal to us
their inner nature and its historical development. I see the essence
of its significance precisely in the proof of historical connection. I
am one of those scientists who believe in a real "natural history,"
and who think as much of an historical knowledge of the past as of an
exact investigation of the present. The incalculable value of the
historical consciousness cannot be sufficiently emphasised at a time
when historical research is ignored and neglected, and when an "exact"
school, as dogmatic as it is narrow, would substitute for it physical
experiments and mathematical formulae. Historical knowledge cannot be
replaced by any other branch of science.

It is clear that the prejudices that stand in the way of a general
recognition of this "natural anthropogeny" are still very great;
otherwise the long struggle of philosophic systems would have ended in
favour of Monism. But we may confidently expect that a more general
acquaintance with the genetic facts will gradually destroy these
prejudices, and lead to the triumph of the natural conception of
"man's place in nature." When we hear it said, in face of this
expectation, that this would lead to retrogression in the intellectual
and moral development of mankind, I cannot refrain from saying that,
in my opinion, it will be just the reverse; that it will promote to an
enormous extent the advance of the human mind. All progress in our
knowledge of truth means an advance in the higher cultivation of the
human intelligence; and all progress in its application to practical
life implies a corresponding improvement of morality. The worst
enemies of the human race--ignorance and superstition--can only be
vanquished by truth and reason. In any case, I hope and desire to have
convinced the reader of these chapters that the true scientific
comprehension of the human frame can only be attained in the way that
we recognise to be the sole sound and effective one in organic science
generally--namely, the way of Evolution.



INDEX.

Abiogenesis.

Accipenser.

Abortive ova.

Achromatin.

Achromin.

Acoela.

Acoustic nerve, the.

Acquired characters, inheritance of.

Acrania, the.

Acroganglion, the.

Adam's apple, the.

Adapida.

Adaptation.

After-birth, the.

Agassiz, L.

Age of life.

Alimentary canal, evolution of the.
structure of the.

Allantoic circulation, the.

Allantois, development of the.

Allmann.

Amblystoma.

Amitotic cleavage.

Ammoconida.

Ammolynthus.

Amnion, the.
formation of the.

Amniotic fluid, the.

Amoeba, the.

Amphibia, the.

Amphichoerus.

Amphigastrula.

Amphioxus, the.
circulation of the.
coelomation of the.
embryology of the.
structure of the.

Amphirhina.

Anamnia, the.

Anatomy, comparative.

Animalculists.

Animal layer, the.

Annelids, the.

Annelid theory, the.

Anomodontia.

Ant, intelligence of the.

Anthropithecus.

Anthropogeny.

Anthropoid apes, the.

Anthropology.

Anthropozoic period.

Antimera.

Anura.

Anus, the.

Anus, formation of the.

Aorta, the.
development of the.

Ape and man.

Ape-man, the.

Apes, the.

Aphanocapsa.

Aphanostomum.

Appendicaria.

Appendix vermiformis, the.

Aquatic life, early prevalence of.

Ararat, Mount.

Archenteron.

Archeolithic age.

Archicaryon.

Archicrania.

Archigastrula.

Archiprimas.

Arctopitheca.

Area, the germinative.

Aristotle.

Arm, structure of the.

Arrow-worm, the.

Arterial arches, the.
cone, the.

Arteries, evolution of the.

Articulates, the.
skeleton of the.

Articulation.

Aryo-Romanic languages, the.

Ascidia, the.
embryology of the.

Ascula.

Asexual reproduction.

Atlas, the.

Atrium, the.
(heart), the.

Auditory nerve, the.

Auricles of the heart.

Autolemures.

Axolotl, the.

Bacteria.

Baer, K.E. von.

Balanoglossus.

Balfour, F.

Batrachia.

Bdellostoma Stouti.

Bee, generation of the.

Beyschlag, W., on evolution.

Bilateral symmetry.
origin of.

Bimana.

Biogenetic law, the.

Biogeny.

Bionomy.

Bird, evolution of the.
ovum of the.

Bischoff, W.

Bladder, evolution of the.

Blastaea, the.

Blastocoel, the.

Blastocrene, the.

Blastocystis, the.

Blastoderm, the.

Blastodermic vesicle, the.

Blastoporus, the.

Blastosphere, the.

Blastula, the.
the mammal.

Blood, importance of the.
recent experiments in mixture of.
structure of the.

Blood-cells, the.

Blood-vessels, the.
development of the.
of the vertebrate.
origin of the.

Boniface VIII, Bull of.

Bonnet.

Borneo nosed-ape, the.

Boveri, Theodor.

Brachytarsi.

Brain and mind.
evolution of the.
in the fish.
in the lower animals.
structure of the.

Branchial arches, evolution of the.
cavity, the.
system, the.

Branchiotomes.

Breasts, the.

Bulbilla.

Calamichthys.

Calcolynthus.

Capillaries, the.

Caracoideum, the.

Carboniferous strata.

Carcharodon.

Cardiac cavity, the.

Cardiocoel, the.

Catallacta.

Caryobasis.

Caryokinesis.

Caryolymph.

Caryolyses.

Caryon.

Caryoplasm.

Catarrhinae, the.

Catastrophic theory, the.

Caudate cells.

Cell, life of the.
nature of the.
size of the.

Cell theory, the.

Cenogenesis.

Cenogenetic structures.

Cenozoic period, the.

Central body, the.

Central nervous system, the.

Centrolecithal ova.

Centrosoma, the.

Ceratodus, the.

Cerebellum, the.

Cerebral vesicles, evolution of the.

Cerebrum, the.

Cestracion Japonicus.

Chaetognatha.

Chick, importance of the, in embryology.

Child, mind of the.

Chimpanzee, the.

Chiromys.

Chiroptera.

Chirotherium.

Chondylarthra.

Chorda, the.
evolution of the.

Chordaea, the.

Chordalemma, the.

Chordaria.

Chordula, the.

Choriata, the.

Chorion, the.
development of the.
frondosum.
laeve.

Choroid coat, the.

Chorology.

Chromacea.

Chromatin.

Chroococcacea.

Chroococcus, the.

Church, opposition of, to science in Middle Ages.

Chyle.

Chyle-vessels.

Cicatricula, the.

Ciliated cells.

Cinghalese gynecomast.

Circulation in the lancelet.

Circulatory system, evolution of the.
structure of the.

Classification.
evolutionary value of.

Clitoris, the.

Cloaca, the.

Cnidaria.

Coccyx, the.

Cochineal insect, the.

Cochlea, the.

Coecilia.

Coecum [Caecum], the.

Coelenterata.

Coelenteria.

Coeloma, the.

Coelomaea, the.

Coelomaria.

Coelomation.

Coelom-theory, the.

Coelomula, the.

Colon, the.

Comparative anatomy.

Conception, nature of.

Conjunctiva, the.

Conocyema.

Convoluta.

Copelata, the.

Copulative organs, evolution of the.

Corium, the.

Cornea, the.

Corpora cavernosa, the.

Corpora quadrigemina.

Corpora striata.

Corpus callosum, the.

Corpus vitreum, the.

Corpuscles of the blood.

Craniology.

Craniota, the.

Cranium, the.

Creation.

Cretaceous strata.

Crossopterygii.

Crustacea, the.

Cryptocoela.

Cryptorchism.

Crystalline lens, the.
development of the.

Cutaneous glands.

Cuttlefish, embryology of the.

Cuvier, G.

Cyanophycea.

Cyclostoma, the.
ova of the.

Cyemaria.

Cynopitheca.

Cynthia.

Cytoblastus, the.

Cytodes.

Cytoplasm.

Cytosoma.

Cytula, the.

Dalton.

Darwin, C.

Darwin, E.

Darwinism.

Decidua, the.

Deciduata.

Deduction, nature of.

Degeneration theory, the.

Dentition of the ape and man.

Depula.

Descent of Man.

Design in organisms.

Deutoplasm.

Devonian strata.

Diaphragm, the.
evolution of the.

Dicyema.

Dicyemida.

Didelphia.

Digonopora.

Dinosauria.

Dipneumones.

Dipneusta.
ova of the.

Dipnoa.

Directive bodies.

Discoblastic ova.

Discoplacenta.

Dissatyrus.

Dissection, medieval decrees against.

Dohrn, Anton.

Dollinger.

Dorsal furrow, the.
shield, the.
zone, the.

Dromatherium.

Dualism.

Dubois, Eugen.

Ductus Botalli, the.

Ductus venosus Arantii.

Duodenum, the.

Duration of embryonic development.
of man's history.

Dysteleology.
proofs of.

Ear, evolution of the.
structure of the.
uselessness of the external.

Ear-bones, the.

Earth, age of the.

Echidna hystrix.

Ectoblast.

Ectoderm, the.

Edentata.

Efficient causes.

Egg of the bird.
or the chick, priority of the.

Elasmobranchs, the.

Embryo, human, development of the.

Embryology.
evolutionary value of.

Embryonic development, duration of.
disk, the.
spot, the.

Encephalon, the.

Endoblast.

Endothelia.

Enterocoela.

Enteropneusta.

Entoderm, the.

Eocene strata.

Eopitheca.

Epiblast.

Epidermis, the.

Epididymis, the.

Epigastrula.

Epigenesis.

Epiglottis, the.

Epiphysis, the.

Episoma.

Episomites.

Epispadia.

Epithelia.

Epitheria.

Epovarium, the.

Equilibrium, sense of.

Esthonychida.

Eustachian tube, the.

Eutheria.

Eve.

Evolution theory, the.
inductive nature of.

Eye, evolution of the.
structure of the.

Eyelid, the third.

Eyelids, evolution of the.

Fabricius ab Aquapendente

Face, embryonic development of the.

Fat glands in the skin.

Feathers, evolution of.

Fertilisation.
place of.

Fin, evolution of the.

Final causes.

Flagellate cells.

Floating bladder, the.
evolution of the.

Foetal circulation.

Food-yelk, the.

Foot, evolution of the.
of the ape and man.

Fore brain, the.

Fore kidneys, the.

Fossiliferous strata, list of.

Fossils.
scarcity of.

Free will.

Friedenthal, experiments of.

Frog, the.
ova of the.

Frontonia.

Function and structure.

Furcation of ova.

Gaertner's duct.

Ganglia, commencement of.

Ganglionic cell, the.

Ganoids.

Gastraea, the.
formation of the.

Gastraea theory, the.

Gastraeads.

Gastremaria.

Gastrocystis, the.

Gastrophysema.

Gastrotricha.

Gastrula, the.

Gastrulation.

Gegenbaur, Carl.
on evolution.
on the skull.

Gemmation.

General Morphology.

Genesis.

Genital pore, the.

Geological evolution, length of.
periods.

Geology, methods of.
rise of.

Germ-plasm, theory of.

Germinal disk.
layers, the.
scheme of the.
spot, the.
vesicle, the.

Germinative area, the.

Giant gorilla, the.

Gibbon, the.

Gill-clefts and arches.
formation of the.

Gill-crate, the.

Gills, disappearance of the.

Gloeocapsa.

Gnathostoma.

Goethe as an evolutionist.

Goitre.

Gonads, the.
formation of the.

Gonidia.

Gonochorism, beginning of.

Gonoducts.

Gonotomes.

Goodsir.

Gorilla, the.

Graafian follicles, the.

Gregarinae.

Gullet-ganglion, the.

Gut, evolution of the.

Gyrini.

Gynecomastism.

Hag-fish, the.

Hair, evolution of the.
on the human embryo and infant.

Hair, restriction of, by sexual selection.

Haliphysema.

Halisauria.

Haller, Albrecht.

Halosphaera viridis.

Hand, evolution of the.
of the ape and man.

Hapalidae.

Harderian gland, the.

Hare-lip.

Harrison, Granville.

Hartmann.

Harvey.

Hatschek.

Hatteria.

Head-cavity, the.

Head-plates, the.

Heart, development of the.
of the ascidia.
position of the.

Helmholtz.

Helminthes.

Hepatic gut, the.

Heredity, nature of.

Hermaphrodism.

Hertwig.

Hesperopitheca.

His, W.

Histogeny.

History of Creation.

Holoblastic ova.

Homoeosaurus.

Homology of the germinal layers.

Hoof, evolution of the.

Hunterian ligament, the.

Huxleian law, the.

Huxley, T.H.

Hydra, the.

Hydrostatic apparatus in the fish.

Hylobates.

Hylodes Martinicensis.

Hyoid bone, the.

Hypermastism.

Hyperthelism.

Hypoblast.

Hypobranchial groove, the.

Hypodermis, the.

Hypopsodina.

Hyposoma, the.

Hyposomites.

Hypospadia.

Ichthydina.

Ichthyophis glutinosa.

Ictopsida.

Ileum, the.

Immortality, Aristotle on.

Immortality of the soul.

Impregnation-rise, the.

Indecidua.

Indo-Germanic languages.

Induction and deduction.

Inheritance of acquired characters.

Insects, intelligence of.

Interamniotic cavity, the.

Intestines, the.

Invagination.

Iris, the.

Jacchus.

Java, ape-man of.

Jaws, evolution of the.

Jurassic strata.

Kant, dualism of.

Kelvin, Lord, on the origin of life.

Kidneys, the.
formation of the.

Klaatsch.

Kolliker.

Kowalevsky.

Labia, the.

Labyrinth, the.

Lachrymal glands.

Lamarck, J.
theories of.

Lamprey, the.
ova of the.

Lancelet, the.
description of the.

Languages, evolution of.

Lanugo of the embryo.

Larynx, the.
evolution of the.

Latebra, the.

Lateral plates, the.

Laurentian strata.

Lecithoma, the.

Leg, evolution of the.
structure of the.

Lemuravida.

Lemurogona.

Lemurs, the.

Lepidosiren.

Leucocytes.

Life, age of.

Limbs, evolution of the.

Limiting furrow, the.

Linin.

Liver, the.

Long-nosed ape, the.

Love, importance of in nature.

Lungs, the.
evolution of the.

Lyell, Sir C.

Lymphatic vessels, the.

Lymph-cells, the.

Macrogonidion.

Macrospores.

Magosphaera planula.

Male womb, the.

Mallochorion, the.

Mallotheria.

Malpighian capsules.

Mammal, characters of the.
gastrulation of the.

Mammals, unity of the.

Mammary glands, the.

Man and the ape, relation of.
origin of.

Man's Place in Nature.

Mantle, the.

Mantle-folds, the.

Marsupials, the.
ova of the.

Materialism.

Mathematical method, the.

Mechanical causes.
embryology.

Meckel's cartilage.

Medulla capitis, the.
oblongata, the.
spinalis, the.

Medullary groove, the.
tube, the.
formation of the.

Mehnert, E., on the biogenetic law.

Meroblastic ova.

Merocytes.

Mesentery, the.

Mesocardium, the.

Mesoderm, the.

Mesogastria.

Mesonephridia, the.

Mesonephros, the.

Mesorchium, the.

Mesovarium, the.

Mesozoic period, the.

Metogaster, the.

Metagastrula, the.

Metamerism.

Metanephridia, the.

Metanephros, the.

Metaplasm.

Metastoma.

Metatheria.

Metazoa.

Metovum, the.

Microgonidian.

Microspores.

Middle ear, the.

Migration, effect of.

Milk, secretion of the.

Mind, evolution of.
in the lower animals.

Miocene strata.

Mitosis.

Monera.

Monism.

Monodelphia.

Monogonopora.

Monopneumones.

Monotremes.
ova of the.

Monoxenia Darwinii.

Morea, the.

Morphology.

Morula, the.

Motor-germinative layer, the.

Mouth, development of the.
structure of the.

Mucous layer, the.

Mullerian duct, the.

Muscle-layer, the.

Muscles, evolution of the.
of the ear, rudimentary.

Myotomes.

Myxinoides, the.

Nails, evolution of the.

Nasal pits.

Natural philosophy.
selection.

Navel, the.

Necrolemurs.

Nectocystis, the.

Nemertina.

Nephroduct, evolution of the.

Nephrotomes.

Nerve-cell, the.

Nerves, animals without.

Nervous system, evolution of the.

Neurenteric canal, the.

Nictitating membrane, the.

Nose, the, in man and the ape.
development of the.
structure of the.

Notochorda, the.

Nuclein.

Nucleolinus.

Nucleolus, the.

Nucleus of the cell.

Oesophagus, the.

Oken.

Oken's bodies.

Oligocene strata.

Olynthus.

On the generation of animals.

Ontogeny.
defective evidence of.

Opaque area, the.

Opossum, the.
ova of the.

Optic nerve, the.

Optic thalami.
vesicles.

Orang, the.

Ornithodelphia.

Ornithorhyncus.

Ornithostoma.

Ossicles of the ear.

Otoliths.

Ova, number of.
of the lancelet.

Ovaries, evolution of the.

Oviduct, origin of the.

Ovolemma, the.

Ovulists.

Ovum, discovery of the.
nature of the.
size of the.

Pachylemurs, the.

Pacinian corpuscles.

Paleontology.
evolutionary evidence of.
incompleteness of.
rise of.

Paleozoic age, the.

Palingenesis.

Palingenetic structures.

Palaehatteria.

Panniculus carnosus, the.

Paradidymis, the.

Parietal zone, the.

Parthenogenesis.

Pastrana, Miss Julia.

Pedimana.

Pellucid area, the.

Pelvic cavity, the.

Pemmatodiscus gastrulaceus.

Penis-bone, the.

Penis, varieties of the.

Peramelida.

Periblastic ova.

Peribranchial cavity, the.

Pericardial cavity, the.

Perichorda, the.
formation of the.

Perigastrula.

Permian strata.

Petromyzontes, the.

Phagocytes.

Pharyngeal ganglion, the.

Pharynx, the.

Philology, comparison with.

Philosophie Zoologique.

Philosophy and evolution.

Phycochromacea.

Phylogeny.

Physemaria.

Physiology, backwardness of.

Phytomonera.

Pineal eye, the.

Pinna, the.

Pithecanthropus.

Pithecometra-principle, the.

Placenta, the.

Placentals, the.
characters of the.
gastrulation of the.

Planocytes.

Plant-louse, parthenogenesis of the.

Planula, the.

Plasma-products.

Plasson.

Plastids.

Plastidules.

Platodaria.

Platodes, the.

Platyrrhinae.

Pleuracanthida.

Pleural ducts.

Pliocene strata.

Polar cells.

Polyspermism.

Preformation theory, the.

Primary period, the.

Primates, the.

Primatoid.

Primitive groove, the.
gut, the.
kidneys, the.
mouth, the.
segments.
streak, the.
vertebrae.

Primordial period, the.

Prochordata.

Prochordonia, the.

Prochoriata.

Prochorion, the.

Proctodaeum, the.

Procytella primordialis.

Prodidelphia.

Progaster, the.

Progonidia.

Promammalia.

Pronephridia, the.

Pronucleus femininus.
masculinus.

Properistoma.

Prorenal canals of the lancelet.
duct, the.
evolution of the.

Proselachii.

Prosimiae, the.

Prospermaria.

Prospondylus.

Prostoma.

Protamniotes.

Protamoeba.

Proterosaurus, the.

Protists.

Protonephros.

Protophyta.

Protoplasm.

Protopterus.

Prototheria.

Protovertebrae.

Protozoa.

Provertebral cavity, the.
plates, the.

Pseudocoela.

Pseudopodia.

Pseudova.

Psychic life, evolution of the.

Psychology.

Pterosauria.

Pylorus, the.

Quadratum, the.

Quadrumana.

Quaternary period.

Rabbit, ova of the.

Radiates, the.

Rathke's canals.

Rectum, the.

Regner de Graaf.

Renal system, evolution of the.

Reproduction, nature of.

Reptiles.

Respiratory organs, evolution of the.
pore, the.

Retina, the.

Rhabdocoela.

Rhodocytes.

Rhopalura.

Rhyncocephala.

Ribs, the.
number of the.

Rudimentary ear-muscles.
organs.
list of.
toes.

Sacculus, the.

Sagitta.
coelomation of.

Salamander, the.
ova of the.

Sandal-shape of embryo.

Satyrus.

Sauromammalia.

Sauropsida.

Scatulation theory, the.

Schizomycetes.

Schleiden, M.

Schwann, T.

Sclerotic coat, the.

Sclerotomes.

Scrotum, the.

Scyllium, nose of the.

Sea-squirt, the.

Secondary period, the.

Segmentation.

Segmentation-cells.

Segmentation-sphere, the.

Selachii.
skull of the.

Selection, theory of.

Selenka.

Semnopitheci.

Sense-organs, evolution of the.
number of the.
origin of the.

Sensory nerves.

Serocoelom, the.

Serous layer, the.

Sex-organs, early vertebrate form of the.
evolution of the.

Sexual reproduction, simplest forms of.
selection.

Shark, the.
nose of the.
ova of the.
placenta of the.
skull of the.

Shoulder-blade, the.

Sickle-groove, the.

Sieve-membrane, the.

Silurian strata.

Simiae, the.

Siphonophorae, embryology of the.

Skeleton, structure of the.

Skeleton-plate, the.

Skin, the.
evolution of.
function of the.

Skin-layer, the.

Skull, evolution of the.
structure of the.
vertebral theory of the.

Smell, the sense of.

Soul, evolution of the.
nature of the.
phylogeny of the.
seat of the.

Sound, sensations of.

Sozobranchia.

Space, sense of.

Species, nature of the.

Speech, evolution of.

Spermaducts.

Spermaries, evolution of the.

Spermatozoon, the.
discovery of the.

Spinal cord, development of the.
structure of the.

Spirema, the.

Spiritualism.

Spleen, the.

Spondyli.

Sponges, classification of the.
ova of the.

Spontaneous generation.

Stegocephala.

Stem-cell, the.

Stem-zone, the.

Stomach, evolution of the.
structure of the human.

Strata, thickness of.

Struggle for life, the.

Subcutis, the.

Sweat glands.

Tactile corpuscles.

Tadpole, the.

Tail, evolution of the.
rudimentary, in man.

Tailed men.

Taste, the sense of.

Teeth, evolution of the.
--of the ape and man.

Teleostei.

Telolecithal ova.

Temperature, sense of.

Terrestrial life, beginning of.

Tertiary period, the.

Theoria generationis, the.

Theories, value of.

Theromorpha.

Third eyelid, the.

Thyroid gland, the.

Time-variations in ontogeny.

Tissues, primary and secondary.

Toad, the.

Tocosauria.

Toes, number of the.

Tori genitales, the.

Touch, the sense of.

Tracheata.

Tread, the.

Tree-frog, the.

Triassic strata.

Triton taeniatus.

Troglodytes.

Tunicates, the.

Turbellaria.

Turbinated bones, the.

Tympanic cavity, the.

Umbilical, cord, the.
vesicle, the.

Unicellular ancestor of all animals.
--animals.

Urachus, the.

Urinary system, evolution of the.

Urogenital ducts.

Uterus masculinus, the.

Utriculus, the.

Vasa deferentia.

Vascular layer, the.
system, evolution of the.
structure of the.

Vegetative layer, the.

Veins, evolution of the.

Ventral pedicle, the.

Ventricles of the heart.

Vermalia.

Vermiform appendage, the.

Vertebrae.

Vertebraea.

Vertebral arch, the.
column, the.
evolution of the.
structure of the.

Vertebrates, character of the.
descent of the.

Vertebration.

Vesico-umbilical ligament, the.

Vesicula prostatica, the.

Villi of the chorion.

Virchow, R.
on the ape-man.
on the evolution of man.

Virgin-birth.

Vitalism.

Vitelline duct, the.

Volvocina.

Wallace, A.R.

Water, organic importance of.

Water vessels.

Weismann's theories.

Wolff, C.F.

Wolffian bodies.

Wolffian duct, the.

Womb, evolution of the.

Yelk, the.

Yelk-sac, the.

Zona pellucida, the.

Zonoplacenta.

Zoomonera.

Zoophytes.












End of Project Gutenberg's The Evolution of Man, V.2, by Ernst Haeckel





Prodyuced by Anne Soulard, Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.





THE EVOLUTION OF AN EMPIRE
A BRIEF HISTORICAL SKETCH OF ENGLAND

BY
MARY PARMELE




PREFACE.


Will the readers of this little work please bear in mind the
difficulties which must attend the painting of a very large picture,
with multitudinous characters and details, upon a very small canvas!
This book is mainly an attempt to trace to their sources some of the
currents which enter into the life of England to-day; and to indicate
the starting-points of some among the various threads--legislative,
judicial, social, etc.--which are gathered into the imposing strand of
English Civilization in this closing 19th Century.

The reader will please observe that there seem to have been two things
most closely interwoven with the life of England. RELIGION and MONEY
have been the great evolutionary factors in her development.

It has been, first, the resistance of the people to the extortions of
money by the ruling class, and second, the violating of their religious
instincts, which has made nearly all that is vital in English History.

The lines upon which the government has developed to its present
Constitutional form are chiefly lines of resistance to oppressive
enactments in these two matters. The dynastic and military history of
England, although picturesque and interesting, is really only a
narrative of the external causes which have impeded the Nation's growth
toward its ideal of "the greatest possible good to the greatest
possible number."

M. P.




CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

Ancient Britain--Caesar's Invasion--Britain a Roman Province--Boadicea
--Lyndin or London--Roman Legions Withdrawn--Angles and Saxons--
Cerdic--Teutonic Invasion--English Kingdoms Consolidated

CHAPTER II.

Augustine--Edwin--Caedmon--Baeda--Alfred--Canute--Edward the
Confessor--Harold--William the Conqueror

CHAPTER III.

"Gilds" and Boroughs--William II.--Crusades--Henry I.--Henry II.--
Becket's Death--Richard I.--John--Magna Charta

CHAPTER IV.

Henry III.--Roger Bacon--First True Parliament--Edward I.--Conquest of
Wales--of Scotland--Edward II.--Edward III.--Battle of Crecy--Richard
II.--Wickliffe

CHAPTER V

House of Lancaster--Henry IV.--Henry V.--Agincourt--Battle of Orleans--
Wars of the Roses--House of York--Edward IV.--Richard III.--Henry VII.
--Printing Introduced

CHAPTER VI

Henry VIII--Wolsey--Reformation--Edward VI--Mary

CHAPTER VII

Elizabeth--East India Company Chartered--Colonization of Virginia--
Flodden Field--Birth of Mary Stuart--Mary Stuart's Death--Spanish
Armada--Francis Bacon

CHAPTER VIII

James I--First New England Colony--Gunpowder Plot--Translation of
Bible--Charles I--Archbishop Laud--John Hampden--_Petition of Right_--
Massachusetts Chartered--Earl Strafford--_Star Chamber_

CHAPTER IX

Long Parliament--Death of Strafford and Laud--Oliver Cromwell--Death
of Charles I.--Long Parliament Dispersed--Charles II.

CHAPTER X

Act of Habeas Corpus--Death of Charles II.--Milton--Bunyan--James II.
--William and Mary--Battle of Boyne

 CHAPTER XI.

Anne--Marlborough--Battle of Blenheim--House of Hanover--George I.--
George II.--Walpole--British Dominion in India--Battle of Quebec--John
Wesley

CHAPTER XII.

George III.--Stamp Act--Tax on Tea--American Independence Acknowledged
--Impeachment of Hastings--War of 1812--First English Railway--George
IV.--William IV.--Reform Bill--Emancipation of the Slaves

CHAPTER XIII.

Victoria--Famine in Ireland--War with Russia--Sepoy Rebellion--Massacre
at Cawnpore

CHAPTER XIV.

Atlantic Cable--Daguerre's Discovery--First World's Fair--Death of
Albert--Suez Canal--Victoria Empress of India--Disestablishment of
Irish Branch of Church of England--Present Conditions




HISTORY OF ENGLAND.


CHAPTER I.


The remotest fact in the history of England is written in her rocks.
Geology tells us of a time when no sea flowed between Dover and Calais,
while an unbroken continent extended from the Mediterranean to the
Orkneys.

Huge mounds of rough stones called Cromlechs, have yielded up still
another secret. Before the coming of the Keltic-Aryans, there dwelt
there two successive races, whose story is briefly told in a few human
fragments found in these "Cromlechs." These remains do not bear the
royal marks of Aryan origin. The men were small in stature, with
inferior skulls; and it is surmised that they belonged to the same
mysterious branch of the human family as the Basques and Iberians,
whose presence in Southern Europe has never been explained.

When the Aryan came and blotted out these races will perhaps always
remain an unanswered question. But while Greece was clothing herself
with a mantle of beauty, which the world for two thousand years has
striven in vain to imitate, there was lying off the North and West
coasts of the European Continent a group of mist-enshrouded islands of
which she had never heard.

Obscured by fogs, and beyond the horizon of Civilization, a branch of
the Aryan race known as Britons were there leading lives as primitive
as the American Indians, dwelling in huts shaped like beehives, which
they covered with branches and plastered with mud. While Phidias was
carving immortal statues for the Parthenon, this early Britisher was
decorating his abode with the heads of his enemies; and could those
shapeless blocks at Stonehenge speak, they would, perhaps, tell of
cruel and hideous Druidical rites witnessed on Salisbury Plain, ages
ago.

[Sidenote: Caesar's Invasion, 55 B.C. Britain a Roman Province, 45 A.D.
Boadicea 61 A.D.]

Rumors of the existence of this people reached the Mediterranean three
or four hundred years before Christ, but not until Caesar's invasion of
the Island (55 B.C.) was there any positive knowledge of them.

The actual conquest of Britain was not one of Caesar's achievements.
But from the moment when his covetous eagle-eye viewed the chalk-cliffs
of Dover from the coast of Northern Gaul, its fate was sealed. The
Roman octopus from that moment had fastened its tentacles upon the
hapless land; and in 45 A.D., under the Emperor Claudius, it became a
Roman province. In vain did the Britons struggle for forty years. In
vain did the heroic Boadicea (during the reign of Nero, 61 A.D.), like
Hermann in Germany, and Vercingetorix in France, resist the destruction
of her nation by the Romans. In vain did this woman herself lead the
Britons, in a frenzy of patriotism; and when the inevitable defeat
came, and London was lost, with the desperate courage of barbarian she
destroyed herself rather than witness the humiliation of her race.

The stately Westminster and St. Paul's did not look down upon this
heroic daughter of Britain. London at that time was a collection of
miserable huts and entrenched cattle-pens, which were in Keltic speech
called the "Fort-on-the-Lake"--or "Llyndin," an uncouth name in Latin
ears, which gave little promise of the future London, the Romans
helping it to its final form by calling it Londinium.

But the octopus had firmly closed about its victim, whose struggles,
before the year 100 A.D., had practically ceased. A civilization which
made no effort to civilize was forcibly planted upon the island. Where
had been the humble village, protected by a ditch and felled trees,
there arose the walled city, with temples and baths and forum, and
stately villas with frescoed walls and tessellated floors, and hot-air
currents converting winter into summer.

So Chester, Colchester, Lincoln, York, London, and a score of other
cities were set like jewels in a surface of rough clay, the Britons
filling in the intervening spaces with their own rude customs, habits,
and manners. Dwelling in wretched cabins thatched with straw and
chinked with mud, they still stubbornly maintained their own uncouth
speech and nationality, while they helplessly saw all they could earn
swallowed up in taxes and tributes by their insatiate conquerors. The
Keltic-Gauls might, if they would, assimilate this Roman civilization,
but not so the Keltic-Britons.

The two races dwelt side by side, but separate (except to some extent
in the cities), or, if possible, the vanquished retreated before the
vanquisher into Wales and Cornwall; and there to-day are found the only
remains of the aboriginal Briton race in England.

The Roman General Agricola had built in 78 A.D. a massive wall across
the North of England, extending from sea to sea, to protect the Roman
territory from the Picts and Scots, those wild dwellers in the Northern
Highlands. It seems to us a frail barrier to a people accustomed to
leaping the rocky wall set by nature between the North and the South;
and unless it were maintained by a line of legions extending its entire
length, they must have laughed at such a defence; even when duplicated
later, as it was, by the Emperor Hadrian, in 120 A.D.; and still twice
again, first by Emperor Antoninus, and then by Severus. For the swift
transportation of troops in the defensive warfare always carried on
with the Picts and Scots, magnificent roads were built, which linked
the Romanized cities together in a network of splendid highways.

There were more than three centuries of peace. Agriculture, commerce,
and industries came into existence. "Wealth accumulated," but the
Briton "decayed" beneath the weight of a splendid system, which had not
benefited, but had simply crushed out of him his original vigor.
Together with Roman villas, and vice, and luxury, had also come
Christianity. But the Briton, if he had learned to pray, had forgotten
how to fight,--and how to govern; and now the Roman Empire was
perishing. She needed all her legions to keep Alaric and his Goths out
of Rome.

[Sidenote: Roman Legions Withdrawn, 410 A.D.]

In 410 A.D. the fair cities and roads were deserted. The tramp of Roman
soldiers was heard no more in the land, and the enfeebled native race
were left helpless and alone to fight their battles with the Picts and
Scots;--that fierce Briton offshoot which had for centuries dwelt in
the fastnesses of the Highlands, and which swarmed down upon them like
vultures as soon as their protectors were gone.

In 446 A.D. the unhappy Britons invited their fate. Like their cousins,
the Gauls, they invited the Teutons from across the sea to come to
their rescue, and with result far more disastrous.

When the Frank became the champion and conqueror of Gaul, he had for
centuries been in conflict or in contact with Rome, and had learned
much of the old Southern civilizations, and to some extent adopted
their ideals. Not so the Angles and Saxons, who came pouring into
Britain from Schleswig-Holstein. They were uncontaminated pagans. In
scorn of Roman luxury, they set the torch to the villas, and temples
and baths. They came, exterminating, not assimilating. The more
complaisant Frank had taken Romanized, Latinized Gaul just as he found
her, and had even speedily adopted her religion. It was for Gaul a
change of rulers, but not of civilization.

But the Angles and Saxons were Teutons of a different sort. They
brought across the sea in those "keels" their religion, their manners,
habits, nature, and speech; and they brought them for _use_ (just as
the Englishman to-day carries with him a little England wherever he
goes). Their religion, habits, and manners they stamped upon the
helpless Britons. In spite of King Arthur, and his knights, and his
sword "Excalibar," they swiftly paganized the land which had been for
three centuries Christianized; and their nature and speech were so
ground into the land of their adoption that they exist to-day wherever
the Anglo-Saxon abides.

From Windsor Palace to the humblest abode in England (and in America)
are to be found the descendants of these dominating barbarians who
flooded the British Isles in the 5th Century. What sort of a race were
they? Would we understand England to-day, we must understand them. It
is not sufficient to know that they were bearded and stalwart, fair and
ruddy, flaxen-haired and with cold blue eyes. We should know what sort
of souls looked out of those clear cold eyes. What sort of impulses and
hearts dwelt within those brawny breasts.

Their hearts were barbarous, but loving and loyal, and nature had
placed them in strong, vehement, ravenous bodies. They were untamed
brutes, with noble instincts.

They had ideals too; and these are revealed in the rude songs and epics
in which they delighted. Monstrous barbarities are committed, but
always to accomplish some stern purpose of duty. They are cruel in
order to be just. This sluggish, ravenous, drinking brute, with no
gleam of poetry, no light-hearted rhythm in his soul, has yet chaotic
glimpses of the sublime in his earnest, gloomy nature. He gives little
promise of culture, but much of heroism. There is, too, a reaching
after something grand and invisible, which is a deep religious
instinct. All these qualities had the future English nation slumbering
within them. Marriage was sacred, woman honored. All the members of a
family were responsible for the acts of one member. The sense of
obligation and of responsibility was strong and binding.

Is not every type of English manhood explained by such an inheritance?
From the drunken brawler in his hovel to the English gentleman "taking
his pleasures sadly," all are accounted for; and Hampden, Milton,
Cromwell, John Bright, and Gladstone existed potentially in those
fighting, drinking savages in the 5th Century.

Their religion, after 150 years, was exchanged for Christianity. Time
softened their manners and habits, and mingled new elements with their
speech. But the Anglo-Saxon _nature_ has defied the centuries and
change. _A strong sense of justice_, and a _resolute resistance
to encroachments upon personal liberty_, are the warp and woof of
Anglo-Saxon character yesterday, to-day and forever. The steady
insistence of these traits has been making English History for
precisely 1,400 years, (from 495 to 1895,) and the history of the
Anglo-Saxon race in America for 200 years as well.

Our ancestors brought with them from their native land a simple, just,
Teutonic structure of society and government, the base of which was the
_individual free-man_. The family was considered the social unit.
Several families near together made a township, the affairs of the
township being settled by the male freeholders, who met together to
determine by conference what should be done.

This was the germ of the "town-meeting" and of popular government. In
the "witan," or "wise men," who were chosen as advisers and adjusters
of difficult questions, exist the future legislature and judiciary,
while in the king, or "alder-mann" ("Ealdorman") we see not an
oppressor, but one who by superior age and experience is fitted to
lead. Cerdic, first Saxon king, was simply Cerdic the "Ealdorman" or
"Alder-mann."

They were a free people from the beginning. They had never bowed the
neck to yoke, their heads had never bent to tyranny. Better far was it
that Roman civilization, built upon Keltic-Briton foundation, should
have been effaced utterly, and that this strong untamed humanity, even
cruel and terrible as it was, should replace it. Roman laws, language,
literature, faith, manners, were all swept away. A few mosaics, coins,
and ruined fragments of walls and roads are all the record that remains
of 300 years of occupation.

And the Briton himself--what became of him? In Ireland and Scotland he
lingers still; but, except in Wales and Cornwall, England knows him no
more. Like the American Indian, he was swept into the remote,
inaccessible corners of his own land. It seemed cruel, but it had to
be. Would we build strong and high, it must not be upon _sand_. We
distrust the Kelt as a foundation for nations as we do sand for our
temples. France was never cohesive until a mixture of Teuton had
toughened it. Genius makes a splendid spire, but a poor corner-stone.
It would seem that the Keltic race, brilliant and richly endowed, was
still unsuited to the world in its higher stages of development. In
Britain, Gaul, and Spain they were displaced and absorbed by the
Germanic races. And now for long centuries no Keltic people of
importance has maintained its independence; the Gaelic of the Scotch
Highlands and of Ireland, the native dialect of the Welsh and of
Brittany, being the scanty remains of that great family of related
tongues which once occupied more territory than German, Latin, and
Greek combined. The solution of the Irish question may lie in the fact
that the Irish are fighting against the inevitable; that they belong to
a race which is on its way to extinction, and which is intended to
survive only as a brilliant thread, wrought into the texture of more
commonplace but more enduring peoples.

It was written in the book of fate that a great nation should arise
upon that green island by the North Sea. A foundation of Roman cement,
made by a mingling of Keltic-Briton, and a corrupt, decayed
civilization, would have altered not alone the fate of a nation, but
the History of the World. Our barbarian ancestors brought from
Schleswig-Holstein a rough, clean, strong foundation for what was to
become a new type of humanity on the face of the earth. A Humanity
which was not to be Persian nor Greek, nor yet Roman, but to be
nourished on the best results of all, and to become the standard-bearer
for the Civilization of the future.

[Sidenote: Teutonic Invasion, 449 A.D.]

The Jutes came first as an advance-guard of the great Teuton invasion.
It was but the prologue to the play when Hengist and Horsa, in 449
A.D., occupied what is now Kent, in the Southeast extremity of England.
It was only when Cerdic and his Saxons placed foot on British soil(495
A.D.) that the real drama began. And when the Angles shortly afterward
followed and occupied all that the Saxons had not appropriated (the
north and east coast), the actors were all present and the play began.
The Angles were destined to bestow their name upon the land (Angle-
land), and the Saxons a line of kings extending from Cerdic to
Victoria.

[Sidenote: English Kingdoms Consolidated.]

Covetous of each other's possessions, these Teutons fought as brothers
will. Exterminating the Britons was diversified with efforts to
exterminate one another. Seven kingdoms, four Anglian and three Saxon,
for 300 years tried to annihilate each other; then, finally submitting
to the strongest, united completely,--as only children of one household
of nations can do. The Saxons had been for two centuries dominating
more and more until the long struggle ended--behold, Anglo-Saxon
England consolidated English under one Saxon king! The other kingdoms--
Northumbria, Mercia, East Anglia, Kent, Sussex, and Essex--surviving as
shires and counties.

In 802 A.D., while Charlemagne was welding together his vast and
composite empire, the Saxon Egbert (Ecgberht), descendant of Cerdic
(the "Alder-mann"), was consolidating a less imposing, but, as it has
proved, more permanent kingdom; and the History of a United England had
begun.

While Christianity had been effaced by the Teuton invasion in England,
it had survived among the Irish-Britons. Ireland was never paganized.
With fiery zeal, her people not alone maintained the religion of the
Cross at home, but even drove back the heathen flood by sending
missionaries among the Picts in the Highlands, and into other outlying
territory about the North Sea.

Pope Gregory the Great saw this Keltic branch of Christendom, actually
outrunning Latin Christianity in activity, and he was spurred to an act
which was to be fraught with tremendous consequences.




CHAPTER II.


[Sidenote: Augustine Came, 597.]

The same spot in Kent (the isle of Thanet), which had witnessed the
landing of Hengist and Horsa in 449, saw in 597 a band of men, calling
themselves "Strangers from Rome," arriving under the leadership of
Augustine.

They moved in solemn procession toward Canterbury, bearing before them
a silver cross, with a picture of Christ, chanting in concert, as they
went, the litany of their Church. Christianity had entered by the same,
door through which paganism had come 150 years before.

The religion of Wodin and Thor had ceased to satisfy the expanding soul
of the Anglo-Saxon; and the new faith rapidly spread; its charm
consisting in the light it seemed to throw upon the darkness
encompassing man's past and future.

An aged chief said to Edwin, king of Northumbria, (after whom "Edwins-
borough" was named,) "Oh, King, as a bird flies through this hall on a
winter night, coming out of the darkness, and vanishing into the
darkness again, even so is our life! If these strangers can tell us
aught of what is beyond, let us hear them."

King Edwin was among the first to espouse the new religion, and in less
than one hundred years the entire land was Christianized.

With the adoption of Christianity a new life began to course in the
veins of the people.

[Sidenote: Caedmon Father of English Poetry.]

Caedmon, an unlettered Northumbrian peasant, was inspired by an Angel
who came to him in his sleep and told him to "Sing." "He was not
disobedient unto the heavenly vision." He wrote epics upon all the
sacred themes, from the creation of the World to the Ascension of
Christ and the final judgment of man, and English literature was born.

"Paradise Lost," one thousand years later, was but the echo of this
poet-peasant, who was the Milton of the 7th Century.

In the 8th Century, Baeda (the venerable Beda), another Northumbrian,
who was monk, scholar, and writer, wrote the first History of his
people and his country, and discoursed upon astronomy, physics,
meteorology, medicine, and philosophy. These were but the early
lispings of Science; but they held the germs of the "British
Association" and of the "Royal Society;" for as English poetry has its
roots in Caedmon, so is English intellectual life rooted in Baeda.

The culmination of this new era was in Alfred, who came to the throne
of his grandfather, Egbert, in 871.

He brought the highest ideals of the duties of a King, a broad,
statesmanlike grasp of conditions, an unsullied heart, and a clear,
strong intelligence, with unusual inclination toward an intellectual
life.

Few Kings have better deserved the title of "great." With him began the
first conception of National law. He prepared a code for the
administration of justice in his Kingdom, which was prefaced by the Ten
Commandments, and ended with the Golden Rule; while in his leisure
hours he gave coherence and form to the literature of the time.
Taking the writings of Caedmon, Baeda, Pope Gregory, and Boethius;
translating, editing, commentating, and adding his own to the views of
others upon a wide range of subjects.

He was indeed the father not alone of a legal system in England, but of
her culture and literature besides. The people of Wantage, his native
town, did well, in 1849, to celebrate the one-thousandth anniversary of
the birth of the great King Alfred.

But a condition of decadence was in progress in England, which Alfred's
wise reign was powerless to arrest, and which his greatness may even
have tended to hasten. The distance between the king and the people had
widened from a mere step to a gulf. When the Saxon kings began to be
clothed with a mysterious dignity as "the Lord's anointed," the people
were correspondingly degraded; and the degradation of this class, in
which the true strength of England consisted, bore unhappy but natural
fruits.

A slave or "unfree" class had come with the Teutons from their native
land. This small element had for centuries now been swelled by captives
taken in war, and by accessions through misery, poverty, and debt,
which drove men to sell themselves and families and wear the collar of
servitude. The slave was not under the lash; but he was a mere chattel,
having no more part than cattle (from whom this title is derived) in
the real life of the state.

In addition to this, political and social changes had been long
modifying the structure of society in a way tending to degrade the
general condition. As the lesser Kingdoms were merged into one large
one, the wider dominion of the king removed him further from the
people; every succeeding reign raising him higher, depressing them
lower, until the old English freedom was lost.

The "folk-moot" and "Witenagemot" [Footnote: Witenagemot--a Council
composed of "Witan" or "Wise Men."] were heard of no more. The life of
the early English State had been in its "folk-moot," and hence rested
upon the individual English freeman, who knew no superior but God, and
the law. Now, he had sunk into the mere "villein," bound to follow his
lord to the field, to give him his personal service, and to look to him
alone for justice. With the decline of the freeman (or of popular
government) came Anglo-Saxon degeneracy, which made him an easy prey to
the Danes.

The Northmen were a perpetual menace and scourge to England and
Scotland. There never could be any feeling of permanent security while
that hostile flood was always ready to press in through an unguarded
spot on the coast. The sea wolves and robbers from Norway came
devouring, pillaging, and ravaging, and then away again to their own
homes or lairs. Their boast was that they "scorned to earn by sweat
what they might win by blood." But the Northmen from Denmark were of a
different sort. They were looking for permanent conquest, and had
dreams of Empire, and, in fact, had had more or less of a grasp upon
English soil for centuries before Alfred; and one of his greatest
achievements was driving these hated invaders out of England. In 1013,
under the leadership or Sweyn, they once more poured in upon the land,
and after a brief but fierce struggle a degenerate England was gathered
into the iron hand of the Dane.

[Sidenote: Danish Kings, 1013 to 1042]

Canute, the son of Sweyn, continued the successes of his father,
conquering in Scotland Duncan (of Shakespeare's "Macbeth"), and
proceeded to realize his dream of a great Scandinavian empire, which
should include Denmark, Sweden, Norway, and England. He was one of
those monumental men who mark the periods in the pages of History, and
yet child enough to command the tides to cease, and when disobeyed, was
so humiliated he never again placed a crown upon his head,
acknowledging the presence of a King greater than himself.

Conqueror though he was, the Dane was not exactly a foreigner in
England. The languages of the two nations were almost the same, and a
race affinity took away much of the bitterness of the subjugation,
while Canute ruled more as a wise native King than as a Conqueror.

But the span of life, even of a founder of Empire, is short. Canute's
sons were degenerate, cruel, and in forty years after the Conquest had
so exasperated the Anglo-Saxons that enough of the primitive spirit
returned, to throw off the foreign yoke, and the old Saxon line was
restored in Edward, known as "the Confessor."

[Sidenote: Edward the Confessor, 1042 to 1066]

Edward had qualities more fitted to adorn the cloister than the throne.
He was more of a Saint than King, and was glad to leave the affairs of
his realm in the hands of Earl Godwin. This man was the first great
English statesman who had been neither Priest nor King. Astute,
powerful, dexterous, he was virtual ruler of the Kingdom until King
Edward's death in 1066, when, in the absence of an heir, Godwin's son
Harold was called to the empty throne.

Foreign royal alliances have caused no end of trouble in the life of
Kingdoms. A marriage between a Saxon King and a Norman Princess, in
about the year 1000 A.D., has made a vast deal of history. This
Princess of Normandy, was the grandmother of the man, who was to be
known as "William the Conqueror." In the absence of a direct heir to
the English throne, made vacant by Edward's death, this descent gave a
shadowy claim to the ambitious Duke across the Channel, which he was
not slow to use for his own purposes.

He asserted that Edward had promised that he should succeed him, and
that Harold, the son of Godwin, had assured him of his assistance in
securing his rights upon the death of Edward the Confessor. A
tremendous indignation stirred his righteous soul when he heard of the
crowning of Harold; not so much at the loss of the throne, as at the
treachery of his friend.

[Sidenote: Norman Conquest, 1066. Death of King Harold.]

In the face of tremendous opposition and difficulties, he got together
his reluctant Barons and a motley host, actually cutting down the trees
with which to create a fleet, and then, depending upon pillage for
subsistence, rushed to face victory or ruin.

The Battle of Senlac (or Hastings) has been best told by a woman's hand
in the famous Bayeux Tapestry. An arrow pierced the unhappy Harold in
the eye, entering the brain, and the head which had worn the crown of
England ten short months lay in the dust, William, with wrath
unappeased, refusing him burial.

[Sidenote: William I., King of England, 1066]

William, Duke of Normandy, was King of England. Not alone that. He
claimed that he had been rightful King ever since the death of his
cousin Edward the Confessor; and that those who had supported Harold
were traitors, and their lands confiscated to the crown. As nearly all
had been loyal to Harold, the result was that most of the wealth of the
Nation was emptied into William's lap, not by right of conquest, but by
English law.

Feudalism had been gradually stifling old English freedom, and the King
saw himself confronted with a feudal baronage, nobles claiming
hereditary, military, and judicial power independent of the King, such
as degraded the Monarchy and riveted down the people in France for
centuries. With the genius of the born ruler and conqueror, William
discerned the danger, and its remedy. Availing himself of the early
legal constitution of England, he placed justice in the old local
courts of the "hundred" and "shire," to which every freeman had access,
and these courts he placed under the jurisdiction of the _King_
alone. In Germany and France the vassal owned supreme fealty to his
_lord_, against all foes, even the King himself. In England, the
tenant from this time swore direct fealty to none save his King.

With the unbounded wealth at his disposal, William granted enormous
estates to his followers upon condition of military service at his
call. In other words, he seized the entire landed property of the
State, and then used it to buy the allegiance of the people. By this
means the whole Nation was at his command as an army subject to his
will; and there was at the same time a breaking up of old feudal
tyrannies by a redistribution of the soil under a new form of land
tenure.

The City of London was rewarded for instant submission by a Charter,
signed,--not by his name--but his mark, for the Conqueror of England
(from whom Victoria is twenty-fifth remove in descent), could not write
his name.

He built the Tower of London, to hold the City in restraint. Fortress,
palace, prison, it stands to-day the grim progenitor of the Castles and
Strongholds which soon frowned from every height in England.

He took the outlawed despised Jew under his protection. Not as a
philanthropist, but seeing in him a being who was always accumulating
wealth, which could in any emergency be wrung from him by torture, if
milder measures failed. Their hoarded treasure flowed into the land.
They built the first stone houses, and domestic architecture was
created. Jewish gold built Castles and Cathedrals, and awoke the
slumbering sense of beauty. Through their connection with the Jews in
Spain and the East, knowledge of the physical sciences also streamed
into the land, and an intellectual life was revived, which bore fruit a
century and a half later in Roger Bacon.

[Sidenote: "Domesday Book." Meeting at Salisbury Plain. 1036]

All these things were not done in a day. It was twenty years after the
Conquest that William ordered a survey and valuation of all the land,
which was recorded in what was known as "Domesday Book," that he might
know the precise financial resources of his kingdom, and what was due
him on the confiscated estates. Then he summoned all the nobles and
large landholders to meet him at Salisbury Plain, and those shapeless
blocks at "Stonehenge" witnessed a strange scene when 60,000 men there
took solemn oath to support William as King _even against their own
lords_. With this splendid consummation his work was practically
finished. He had, with supreme dexterity and wisdom, blended two
Civilizations, had at the right moment curbed the destructive element
in feudalism, and had secured to the Englishman free access to the
surface for all time. Thus the old English freedom was in fact restored
by the Norman Conquest, by _direct_ act of the Conqueror.

William typified in his person a transitional time, the old Norse
world, mingling strangely in him with the new. He was the last outcome
of his race. Norse daring and cruelty were side by side with gentleness
and aspiration. No human pity tempered his vengeance. When hides were
hung on the City Walls at Alencon, in insult to his mother (the
daughter of a tanner), he tore out the eyes, cut off the hands and feet
of the prisoners, and threw them over the walls. When he did this, and
when he refused Harold's body a grave, it was the spirit of the sea-
wolves within him. But it was the man of the coming Civilization, who
could not endure death by process of law in his Kingdom, and who
delighted to discourse with the gentle and pious Anselm, upon the
mysteries of life and death.

The _indirect_ benefits of the Conquest, came in enriching streams
from the older civilizations. As Rome had been heir to the
accumulations of experience in the ancient Nations, so England, through
France became the heir to Latin institutions, and was joined to the
great continuous stream of the World's highest development. Fresh
intellectual stimulus renovated the Church. Roman law was planted upon
the simple Teuton system of rights. Every department in State and in
Society shared the advance, while language became refined, flexible,
and enriched.

This engrafting with the results of antiquity, was an enormous saving
of time, in the development of a nation; but it did not change the
essential character of the Anglo-Saxon, nor of his speech. The ravenous
Teuton could devour and assimilate all these new elements and be
himself--be Saxon still. The language of Bunyan and of the Bible, is
Saxon; and it is the language of the Englishman to-day in childhood and
in extremity. A man who is thoroughly in earnest--who is drowning--
speaks Saxon. Character, as much as speech, remains unaltered. There is
no trace of the Norman in the House of Commons, nor in the meetings at
Exeter Hall, nor in the home, nor life of the people anywhere.

The qualities which have made England great were brought across the
North Sea in those "keels" in the 5th Century. The Anglo-Saxon put on
the new civilization and institutions brought him by the Conquest, as
he would an embroidered garment; but the man within the garment, though
modified by civilization, has never essentially changed.



CHAPTER III.


It is not in the exploits of its Kings but in the aspirations and
struggles of its people, that the true history of a nation is to be
sought. During the rule and misrule of the two sons, and grandson, of
the Conqueror, England was steadily growing toward its ultimate form.

As Society outgrew the simple ties of blood which bound it together in
old Saxon England, the people had sought a larger protection in
combinations among fellow freemen, based upon identity of occupation.

[Sidenote: The "Gilds."]

The "Frith-Gilds," or peace Clubs, came into existence in Europe during
the 9th and 10th Centuries. They were harshly repressed in Germany and
Gaul, but found kindly welcome from Alfred in England. In their mutual
responsibility, in their motto, "if any misdo, let all bear it," Alfred
saw simply an enlarged conception of the "_family_," which was the
basis of the Saxon social structure; and the adoption of this idea of a
larger unity, in _combination_, was one of the first phases of an
expanding national life. So, after the conquest, while ambitious kings
were absorbing French and Irish territory or fighting with recalcitrant
barons, the _merchant, craft_, and _church_ "_gilds_"
were creating a great popular force, which was to accomplish more
enduring conquests.

It was in the "boroughs" and in these "gilds" that the true life of the
nation consisted. It was the shopkeepers and artisans which brought the
right of free speech, and free meeting, and of equal justice across the
ages of tyranny. One freedom after another was being won, and the
battle with oppression was being fought, not by Knights and Barons, but
by the sturdy burghers and craftsmen. Silently as the coral insect, the
Anglo-Saxon was building an indestructible foundation for English
liberties.

[Sidenote: William II., 1017-1100. The Crusades Commenced, 1095. Henry
I., 1100-1135]

The Conqueror had bequeathed England to his second son, William Rufus,
and Normandy to his eldest son, Robert. In 1095 (eight years after
his death) commenced those extraordinary wars carried on by the
chivalry of Europe against the Saracens in the East. Robert, in order
to raise money to join the first crusade, mortgaged Normandy to his
brother, and an absorption of Western France had begun, which, by means
of conquest by arms and the more peaceful conquest by marriage, would
in fifty years extend English dominion from the Scottish border to the
Pyrenees.

William's son Henry (I.), who succeeded his older brother, William
Rufus, inherited enough of his father's administrative genius to
complete the details of government which he had outlined. He organized
the beginning of a judicial system, creating out of his secretaries and
Royal Ministers a Supreme Court, whose head bore the title of
Chancellor. He created also another tribunal, which represented the
body of royal vassals who had all hitherto been summoned together three
times a year. This "King's Court," as it was called, considered
everything relating to the revenues of the state. Its meetings were
about a table with a top like a chessboard, which led to calling the
members who sat, "Barons of the Exchequer." He also wisely created a
class of lesser nobles, upon whom the old barons looked down with
scorn, but who served as a counterbalancing force against the arrogance
of an old nobility, and bridged the distance between them and the
people.

So, while the thirty-five years of Henry's reign advanced and developed
the purposes of his father, his marriage with a Saxon Princess did much
to efface the memory of foreign conquest, in restoring the old Saxon
blood to the royal line. But the young Prince who embodied this hope,
went down with 140 young nobles in the "White Ship," while returning
from Normandy. It is said that his father never smiled again, and upon
his death, his nephew Stephen was king during twenty unfruitful years.

But the succession returned through Matilda, daughter of Henry I and
the Saxon princess. She married Geoffrey, Count of Anjou. This
Geoffrey, called "the handsome," always wore in his helmet a sprig of
the broom-plant of Anjou (_Planta genista_), hence their son,
Henry II. of England, was known as Henry _Plante--gent_.

[Sidenote: Henry II., 1154-1189. House of Plantagenet, 1154-1399.
Thomas  Becket's Death 1170.]

This first Plantagenet was a strong, coarse-fibred man; a practical
reformer, without sentiment, but really having good government
profoundly at heart.

He took the reins into his great, rough hands with a determination
first of all to curb the growing power of the clergy, by bringing it
under the jurisdiction of the civil courts. To this end he created his
friend and chancellor, Thomas  Becket, a primate of the Church to aid
the accomplishment of his purpose. But from the moment Becket became
Archbishop of Canterbury, he was transformed into the defender of the
organization he was intended to subdue. Henry was furious when he found
himself resisted and confronted by the very man he had created as an
instrument of his will. These were years of conflict. At last, in a
moment of exasperation, the king exclaimed, "Is there none brave enough
to rid me of this low-born priest!" This was construed into a command.
Four knights sped swiftly to Canterbury Cathedral, and murdered the
Archbishop at the altar. Henry was stricken with remorse, and caused
himself to be beaten with rods like the vilest criminal, kneeling upon
the spot stained with the blood of his friend. It was a brutal murder,
which caused a thrill of horror throughout Christendom. Becket was
canonized; miracles were performed at his tomb, and for hundreds of
years a stream of bruised humanity flowed into Canterbury, seeking
surcease of sorrow, and cure for sickness and disease, by contact with
the bones of the murdered saint.

But Henry had accomplished his end. The clergy was under the
jurisdiction of the King's Court during his reign. He also continued
the judicial reorganization commenced by Henry I. He divided the
kingdom into judicial districts. This completely effaced the legal
jurisdiction of the nobles. The Circuits thus defined correspond
roughly with those existing to-day; and from the Court of Appeals,
which was also his creation, came into existence tribunal after
tribunal in the future, including the "Star Chamber" and "Privy
Council."

But of all the blows aimed at the barons none told more effectually
than the restoration of a national militia, which freed the crown from
dependence upon feudal retainers for military service.

In a fierce quarrel between two Irish chieftains, Henry was called upon
to interfere; and when the quarrel was adjusted, Ireland found herself
annexed to the English crown, and ruled by a viceroy appointed by the
king. The drama of the Saxons defending the Britons from the Picts and
Scots, was repeated.

This first Plantagenet, with fiery face, bull-neck, bowed legs, keen,
rough, obstinate, passionate, left England greater and freer, and yet
with more of a personal despotism than he had found her. The trouble
with such triumphs is that they presuppose the wisdom and goodness of
succeeding tyrants.

Henry's heart broke when he learned that his favorite son, John, was
conspiring against him. He turned his face to the wall and died (1189),
the practical hard-headed old king leaving his throne to a romantic
dreamer, who could not even speak the language of his country.

Richard (Coeur de Lion) was a hero of romance, but not of history. The
practical concerns of his kingdom had no charm for him. His eye was
fixed upon Jerusalem, not England, and he spent almost the entire ten
years of his reign in the Holy Land.

The Crusades, had fired the old spirit of Norse adventure left by the
Danes, and England shared the general madness of the time. As a result
for the treasure spent and blood spilled in Palestine, she received a
few architectural devices and the science of Heraldry. But to Europe,
the benefits were incalculable. The barons were impoverished, their
great estates mortgaged to thrifty burghers, who extorted from their
poverty charters of freedom, which unlocked the fetters and broke the
spell of the dark ages.

Richard the Lion-Hearted died as he had lived, not as a king, but as a
romantic adventurer. He was shot by an arrow while trying to secure
fabulous hidden treasure in France, with which to continue his wars in
Palestine.

[Sidenote: John, 1199-1216. Prince Arthur's Murder, 1203]

His brother John, in 1199, ascended the throne. His name has come down
as a type of baseness, cruelty, and treachery. His brother Geoffrey had
married Constance of Brittany, and their son Arthur, named after the
Keltic hero, had been urged as a rival claimant for the English throne.
Shakespeare has not exaggerated the cruel fate of this boy, whose
monstrous uncle really purposed having his eyes burnt out, being sure
that if he were blind he would no longer be eligible for king. But
death is surer even than blindness, and Hubert, his merciful protector
from one fate, was powerless to avert the other. Some one was found
with "heart as hard as hammered iron," who put an end to the young life
(1203) at the Castle of Rouen.

But the King of England, was vassal to the King of France, and Philip
summoned John to account to him for this deed. When John refused to
appear, the French provinces were torn from him. In 1204 he saw an
Empire stretching from the English Channel to the Pyrenees vanish from
his grasp, and was at one blow reduced to the realm of England.

When we see on the map, England as she was in that day, sprawling in
unwieldy fashion over the western half of France, we realize how much
stronger she has been on "that snug little island, that right little,
tight little island," and we can see that John's wickedness helped her
to be invincible.

The destinies of England in fact rested with her worst king. His
tyranny, brutality, and disregard of his subjects' rights, induced a
crisis which laid the corner-stone of England's future, and buttressed
her liberties for all time.

[Sidenote: Magna Charta, 1215]

At a similar crisis in France, two centuries later, the king (Charles
VII.) made common cause with the people against the barons or dukes. In
England, in the 13th Century, the barons and people were drawn together
against the King. They framed a Charter, its provisions securing
protection and justice to every freeman in England. On Easter Day,
1215, the barons, attended by two thousand armed knights, met the King
near Oxford, and demanded his signature to the paper. John was awed,
and asked them to name a day and place. "Let the day be the 15th of
June, and the place Runnymede," was the reply.

A brown, shrivelled piece of parchment in the British Museum to-day,
attests to the keeping of this appointment. That old Oak at Runnymede,
under whose spreading branches the name of John was affixed to the
Magna Charta, was for centuries held the most sacred spot in England.

It is an impressive picture we get of John, "the Lord's Anointed," when
this scene was over, in a burst of rage rolling on the floor, biting
straw, and gnawing a stick! "They have placed twenty-five kings over
me," he shouted in a fury; meaning the twenty-five barons who were
entrusted with the duty of seeing that the provisions of the Charter
were fulfilled.

Whether his death, one year later (1216), was the result of vexation of
spirit or surfeit of peaches and cider, or poison, history does not
positively say. But England shed no tears for the King to whom she owes
her liberties in the Magna Charta.




CHAPTER IV.


[Sidenote: Henry III., 1216-1272]

For the succeeding 56 years John's son, Henry III., was King of
England. While this vain, irresolute, ostentatious king was extorting
money for his ambitious designs and extravagant pleasures, and
struggling to get back the pledges given in the Great Charter, new and
higher forces, to which he gave no heed, were at work in his kingdom.

Paris at this time was the centre of a great intellectual revival,
brought about by the Crusades. We have seen that through the despised
Jew, at the time of the Conquest, a higher civilization was brought
into England. Along with his hoarded gold came knowledge and culture,
which he had obtained from the Saracen. Now, these germs had been
revived by direct contact with the sources of ancient knowledge in the
East during the Crusades; and while the long mental torpor of Europe
was rolling away like mist before the rising sun, England felt the
warmth of the same quickening rays, and Oxford took on a new life.

[Sidenote: Oxford in the Thirteenth Century.]

It was not the stately Oxford of to-day, but a rabble of roystering,
revelling youths, English, Welsh, and Scotch, who fiercely fought out
their fathers' feuds.

They were a turbulent mob, who gave advance opinion, as it were, upon
every ecclesiastical or political measure, by fighting it out on the
streets of their town, so that an outbreak at Oxford became a sort of
prelude to every great political movement.

Impossible as it seems, intellectual life grew and expanded in this
tumultuous atmosphere; and while the democratic spirit of the
University threatened the king, its spirit of free intellectual inquiry
shook the Church.

The revival of classical learning, bringing streams of thought from old
Greek and Latin fountains, caused a sudden expansion. It was like the
discovery of an unsuspected and greater world, with a body of new
truth, which threw the old into contemptuous disuse. A spirit of doubt,
scepticism, and denial, was engendered. They comprehended now why
Abelard had claimed the "supremacy of reason over faith," and why
Italian poets smiled at dreams of "immortality." Then, too, the new
culture compelled respect for infidel and for Jew. Was it not from
their impious hands, that this new knowledge of the physical universe
had been received?

[Sidenote: Roger Bacon Writes Opus Majus.]

Roger Bacon drank deeply from these fountains, new and old, and
struggled like a giant to illumine the darkness of his time, by
systematizing all existing knowledge. His "Opus Majus" was intended to
bring these riches to the unlearned. But he died uncomprehended, and it
was reserved for later ages to give recognition to his stupendous work,
wrought in the twilight out of dimly comprehended truth.

Pursued by the dream of recovering the French Empire, lost by his
father, and of retracting the promises given in the Charter, Henry III.
spent his entire reign in conflict with the barons and the people, who
were closely drawn together by the common danger and rallied to the
defence of their liberties under the leadership of Simon de Montfort.

[Sidenote: Beginnings of House of Commons, 1265. First true Parliament,
1295. Edward I., 1272-1307]

It was at the town of Oxford that the great council of barons and
bishops held its meetings. This council, which had long been called
"Parliament" (from _parler_), in the year 1265 became for the
first time a representative body, when Simon de Montfort summoned not
alone the lords and bishops--but two citizens from every city, and two
burghers from every borough. A Rubicon was passed when the merchant,
and the shopkeeper, sat for the first time with the noble and the
bishops in the great council. It was thirty years before the change was
fully effected, it being in the year 1295 (just 600 years ago now) that
the first true Parliament met. But the "House of Lords" and the germ of
the "House of Commons," existed in this assembly at Oxford in 1265, and
a government "of the people, for the people, by the people," had
commenced.

Edward I., the son and successor of Henry III., not only graciously
confirmed the Great Charter, but added to its privileges. His expulsion
of the Jews, is the one dark blot on his reign.

[Sidenote: North Wales Conquered, 1213. Conquest of Scotland, 1296.]

He conquered North Wales, the stronghold where those Keltic Britons,
the Welsh, had always maintained a separate existence; and as a
recompense for their wounded feelings bestowed upon the heir to the
throne, the title "_Prince of Wales_."

Westminster Abbey was completed at this time and began to be the
resting-place for England's illustrious dead. The invention of
gunpowder, which was to make iron-clad knights a romantic tradition,
also belongs to this period, which saw too, the conquest of Scotland;
and the magic stone supposed to have been Jacob's pillow at Bethel, and
which was the Scottish talisman, was carried to Westminster Abbey and
built into a coronation-chair, which has been used at the crowning of
every English sovereign since that time.

Scottish liberties were not so sacrificed by this conquest as had been
the Irish. The Scots would not be slaves, nor would they stay conquered
without many a struggle.

[Sidenote: Robert Bruce, Bannockburn, 1314. Edward II., King 1307-1327.
Edward III., 1327-1377.]

Robert Bruce led a great rebellion, which extended into the succeeding
reign, and Bruce's name was covered with glory by his great victory at
Bannockburn (1314).

We need not linger over the twenty years during which Edward II., by
his private infamies, so exasperated his wife and son that they brought
about his deposition, which was followed soon after by his murder; and
then by a disgraceful regency, during which the Queen's favorite,
Mortimer, was virtually king. But King Edward III. commenced to rule
with a strong hand. As soon as he was eighteen years old he summoned
the Parliament. Mortimer was hanged at Tyburn, and his queen-mother was
immured for life.

We have turned our backs upon Old England. The England of a
representative Parliament and a House of Commons, of ideals derived
from a wider knowledge, the England of a Westminster Abbey, and
gunpowder, and cloth-weaving, is the England we all know to-day.
Vicious kings and greed of territory, and lust of power, will keep the
road from being a smooth one. but it leads direct to the England of
Victoria; and 1895 was roughly outlined in 1327, when Edward III.
grasped the helm with the decision of a master.

[Sidenote: Battle of Crecy, 1346]

After completing the subjection of Scotland he invaded France,--the
pretext of resisting her designs upon the Netherlands, being merely a
cover for his own thirst for territory and conquest. The victory over
the French at Crecy, 1346, (and later of Poitiers,) covered the warlike
king and his son, Edward the "Black Prince," with imperishable renown.
Small cannon were first used at that battle. The knights and the
archers laughed at the little toy, but found it useful in frightening
the enemies' horses.

Edward III. covered England with a mantle of military glory, for which
she had to pay dearly later. He elevated the kingship to a more
dazzling height, for which there have also been some expensive
reckonings since. He introduced a new and higher dignity into nobility
by the title of Duke, which he bestowed upon his sons; the great
landholders or barons, having until that time constituted a body in
which all were peers. He has been the idol of heroic England. But he
awoke the dream of French conquest, and bequeathed to his successors a
fatal war, which lasted for 100 years.

The "Black Prince" died, and the "Black Death," a fearful pestilence,
desolated a land already decimated by protracted wars. The valiant old
King, after a life of brilliant triumphs, carried a sad and broken
heart to the grave, and Richard II., son of the heroic Prince Edward,
was king.

[Sidenote: Richard II.,1377-1399. Wat Tyler's Rebellion 1381.]

This last of the Plantagenets had need of great strength and wisdom to
cope with the forces stirring at that time in his kingdom, and was
singularly deficient in both. The costly conquests of his grandfather,
were a troublesome legacy to his feeble grandson. Enormous taxes
unjustly levied to pay for past glories, do not improve the temper of a
people. A shifting of the burden from one class to another arrayed all
in antagonisms against each other, and finally, when the burden fell
upon the lowest order, as it is apt to do, they rose in fierce
rebellion under the leadership of Wat Tyler, a blacksmith (1381).

Concessions were granted and quiet restored, but the people had learned
a new way of throwing off injustice. There began to be a new sentiment
in the air. Men were asking why the few should dress in velvet and the
many in rags. It was the first revolt against the tyranny of wealth,
when people were heard on the streets singing the couplet

   "When Adam delved and Eve span,
    Who was then the gentleman?"

As in the times of the early Saxon kings, the cause breeding
destruction was the widening distance between the king and the people.
In those earlier times the people unresistingly lapsed into decadence,
but the Anglo-Saxon had learned much since then, and it was not so safe
to degrade him and trample on his rights.

[Sidenote: John Wickliffe, 1324-1384.]

Then, too, John Wickliffe had been telling some very plain truths to
the people about the Church of Rome, and there was developing a
sentiment which made Pope and Clergy tremble. There was a spirit of
inquiry, having its centre at Oxford, looking into the title-deeds of
the great ecclesiastical despotism. Wickliffe heretically claimed that
the Bible was the one ground of faith, and he added to his heresy by
translating that Book into simple Saxon English, that men might learn
for themselves what was Christ's message to man.

Luther's protest in the 16th Century was but the echo of Wickliffe's in
the 14th,--against the tyranny of a Church from which all spiritual
life had departed, and which in its decay tightened its grasp upon the
very things which its founder put "behind Him" in the temptation on the
mountain, and aimed at becoming a temporal despotism.

Closely intermingled with these struggles was going on another,
unobserved at the time. Three languages held sway in England--Latin in
the Church, French in polite society, and English among the people.
Chaucer's genius selected the language of the people for its
expression, as also of course, did Wickliffe in his translation of the
Bible. French and Latin were dethroned, and the "King's English" became
the language of the literature and speech of the English nation.

[Sidenote: 1399 Deposition of Richard II. House of Plantagenet ends 1399.]

He would have been a wise and great King who could have comprehended
and controlled all the various forces at work at this time. Richard II.
was neither. This seething, tumbling mass of popular discontents was
besides only the groundwork for the personal strifes and ambitions
which raged about the throne. The wretched King, embroiled with every
class and every party, was pronounced by Parliament unfit to reign, the
same body which deposed him, giving the crown to his cousin Henry of
Lancaster (1399), and the reign of the Plantagenets was ended.




CHAPTER V.


[Sidenote: House of Lancaster, 1399-1461. Henry IV.,1399-1413.]

The new king did not inherit the throne; he was _elected_ to it.
He was an arbitrary creation of Parliament. The Duke of Lancaster,
Henry's father (John of Gaunt), was only a younger son of Edward III.
According to the strict rules of hereditary succession, there were two
others with claims superior to Henry's. Richard Duke of York, his
cousin, claimed a double descent from the Duke Clarence and also from
the Duke of York, both sons of Edward III.

This led later to the dreariest chapter in English history, "the Wars
of the Roses."

It is an indication of the enormous increase in the strength of
Parliament, that such an exercise of power, the creating of a king, was
possible. Haughty, arrogant kings bowed submissively to its will. Henry
could not make laws nor impose taxes without first summoning Parliament
and obtaining his subjects' consent. But corrupting influences were at
work which were destined to cheat England out of her liberties for many
a year.

The impoverishment of the country to pay for war and royal
extravagances, had awakened a troublesome spirit in the House of
Commons. Cruelty to heretics also, and oppressive enactments were
fought and defeated in this body. The King, clergy, and nobles, were
drawing closer together and farther away from the people, and were
devising ways of stifling their will.

If the King might not resist the will of Parliament, he could fill it
with men who would not resist his; so, by a system of bribery and force
in the boroughs, the House of Commons had injected into it enough of
the right sort to carry obnoxious measures. This was only one of the
ways in which the dearly bought liberties were being defeated.

Henry IV., the first Lancastrian king, lighted the fires of persecution
in England. The infamous "Statute of Heresy" was passed 1401. Its first
victim was a priest who was thrown to the flames for denying the
doctrine of transubstantiation.

Wickliffe had left to the people not a party, but a sentiment. The
"Lollards," as they were called, were not an organization, but rather a
pervading atmosphere of revolt, which naturally combined with the
social discontent of the time, and there came to be more of hate than
love in the movement, which was at its foundation a revolt against
inequality of condition. As in all such movements, much that was
vicious and unwise in time mingled with it, tending to give some excuse
for its repression. The discarding of an old faith, unless at once
replaced by a new one, is a time fraught with many dangers to Society
and State.

[Sidenote: Henry V. 1413-1422]

Such were some of the forces at work for fourteen brief years while
Henry IV. wore the coveted crown, and while his son, the roystering
"Prince Hal," in the new character of King (Henry V.) lived out his
brief nine years of glory and conquest.

[Sidenote: Agincourt, 1415]

France, with an insane King, vicious Queen Regent, and torn by the
dissensions of ambitious Dukes, had reached her hour of greatest
weakness, when Henry V. swept down upon her with his archers, and broke
her spirit by his splendid victory at Agincourt; then married her
Princess Katharine, and was proclaimed Regent of France. The rough
wooing of his French bride, immortalized by Shakespeare, throws a
glamour of romance over the time.

But an all-subduing King cut short Henry's triumphs. He was stricken
and died (1422), leaving an infant son nine months old, who bore the
weight of the new title, "King of England and France," while Henry's
brother, the Duke of Bedford, reigned as Regent.

[Sidenote: Joan of Arc. Battle of Orleans 1429.]

Then it was, that by a mysterious inspiration, Joan of Arc, a child and
a peasant, led the French army to the besieged City of Orleans, and the
crucial battle was won.

Charles VII. was King. The English were driven out of France, and the
Hundred Years' War ended in defeat (1453). England had lost Aquitaine,
which for two hundred years (since Henry II.) had been hers, and had
not a foot of ground on Norman soil.

The long shadow cast by Edward III upon England was deepening. A
ruinous war had drained her resources and arrested her liberties; and
now the odium of defeat made the burdens it imposed intolerable. The
temper of every class was strained to the danger point. The wretched
government was held responsible, followed, as usual, by impeachments,
murders, and impotent outbursts of fury.

[Sidenote: Jack Cade's Insurrection, 1450]

While, owing to social processes long at work, feudalism was in fact a
ruin, a mere empty shell, it still seemed powerful as ever; just as an
oak, long after its roots are dead, will still carry aloft a waving
mass of green leafage. The great Earl of Warwick when he went to
Parliament was still followed by 600 liveried retainers. But when Jack
Cade led 20,000 men in rebellion at the close of the French war, they
were not the serfs and villeinage of other times, but farmers and
laborers, who, when they demanded a more economical expenditure of
royal revenue, freedom at elections, and the removal of restrictions on
their dress and living, knew their rights, and were not going to give
them up without a struggle.

But the madness of personal ambition was going to work deeper ruin and
more complete wreck of England's fortunes. We have seen that by the
interposition of Parliament, the House of Lancaster had been placed on
the throne contrary to the tradition which gave the succession to the
oldest branch, which Richard, the Duke of York, claimed to represent;
his claim strengthened by a double descent from Edward III. through his
two sons, Lionel and Edward.

[Sidenote: Wars of the Roses 1455-1485]

For twenty-one years, (1450-1471) these wars of the descendants of
Edward III. were engaged in the most savage war, for purely selfish and
personal ends, with not one noble or chivalric element to redeem the
disgraceful exhibition of human nature at its worst. Murders,
executions, treacheries, adorn a network of intrigue and villany, which
was enough to have made the "White" and the "Red Rose" forever hateful
to English eyes.

The great Earl of Warwick led the White Rose of York to victory,
sending the Lancastrian King to the tower, his wife and child fugitives
from the Kingdom, and proclaimed Edward, (son of Richard Duke of York,
the original claimant, who had been slain in the conflict), King of
England.

[Sidenote: Death of Henry VI. House of York, 1461-1485.]

Then, with an unscrupulousness worthy of the time and the cause,
Warwick opened communication with the fugitive Queen, offering her his
services, betrothed his daughter to the young Edward, Prince of Wales,
took up the red Lancastrian rose from the dust of defeat,--brought the
captive he had sent to the tower back to his throne--only to see him
once more dragged down again by the Yorkists--and for the last time
returned to captivity; leaving his wife a prisoner and his young son
dead at Tewksbury, stabbed by Yorkist lords. Henry VI. died in the
Tower, "mysteriously," as did all the deposed and imprisoned Kings;
Warwick was slain in battle, and with Edward IV, the reign of the House
of York commenced.

Such in brief is the story of the "_Wars of the Roses_" and of the
Earl of Warwick, the "_King Maker_."

[Sidenote: Edward IV., 1471-1483.]

At the close of the Wars of the Roses, feudalism was a ruin. The oak
with its dead roots had been prostrated by the storm. The imposing
system had wrought its own destruction. Eighty Princes of the blood
royal had perished, and more than half of the Nobility had died on the
field or the scaffold, or were fugitives in foreign lands. The great
Duke of Exeter, brother-in-law to a King, was seen barefoot begging
bread from door to door.

By the confiscation of one-fifth of the landed estate of the Kingdom,
vast wealth poured into the King's treasury. He had no need now to
summon Parliament to vote him supplies. The clergy, rendered feeble and
lifeless from decline in spiritual enthusiasm, and by its blind
hostility to the intellectual movement of the time, crept closer to the
throne, while Parliament, with its partially disfranchised House of
Commons, was so rarely summoned that it almost ceased to exist. In the
midst of the general wreck, the Kingship towered in solitary greatness.

Edward IV. was absolute sovereign. He had no one to fear, unless it was
his intriguing brother Richard, Duke of Gloucester, who, during the
twenty-three years of Edward's reign, was undoubtedly carefully
planning the bloodstained steps by which he himself should reach the
throne.

Acute in intelligence, distorted in form and in character, this Richard
was a monster of iniquity. The hapless boy left heir to the throne upon
the death of Edward IV., his father, was placed under the guardianship
of his misshapen uncle, who until the majority of the young King,
Edward V., was to reign under the title of Protector.

[Sidenote: Richard III., 1483-1485. Death of the Princes in the Tower.]

How this "Protector" protected his nephews all know. The two boys
(Edward V. and Richard, Duke of York) were carried to the Tower. The
world has been reluctant to believe that they were really smothered, as
has been said; but the finding, nearly two hundred years later, of the
skeletons of two children which had been buried or concealed at the
foot of the stairs leading to their place of confinement, seems to
confirm it beyond a doubt.

[Sidenote: Bosworth Field. House of Tudor, 1485-1603. Henry VII.,
1485-1509.]

Retribution came swiftly. Two years later Richard fell at the battle of
Bosworth Field, and the crown won by numberless crimes, rolled under a
hawthorn bush. It was picked up and placed upon a worthier head.

Henry Tudor, an offshoot of the House of Lancaster, was proclaimed King
Henry VII., and his marriage with Princess Elizabeth of York (sister of
the princes murdered in the Tower) forever blended the White and the
Red Rose in peaceful union.

[Sidenote: Printing Introduced into England.]

During all this time, while Kings came and Kings went, the people
viewed these changes from afar. But if they had no longer any share in
the government, a great expansion was going on in their inner life.
Caxton had set up his printing press, and the "art preservative of all
arts," was bringing streams of new knowledge into thousands of homes.
Copernicus had discovered a new Heaven, and Columbus a new Earth. The
sun no longer circled around the Earth, nor was the Earth a flat plain.
There was a revival of classic learning at Oxford, and Erasmus, the
great preacher, was founding schools and preparing the minds of the
people for the impending change, which was soon to be wrought by that
Monk in Germany, whose soul was at this time beginning to be stirred to
its mighty effort at reform.




CHAPTER VI.


[Sidenote: Henry VIII., 1509-1517]

When in the year 1509 a handsome youth of eighteen came to the throne,
the hopes of England ran high. His intelligence, his frank, genial
manners, his sympathy with the "new learning," won all classes. Erasmus
in his hopes of purifying the Church, and Sir Thomas More in his
"Utopian" dreams for politics and society, felt that a friend had come
to the throne in the young Henry VIII.

Spain had become great through a union of the rival Kingdoms Castile
and Aragon; so a marriage with the Princess Katharine, daughter of
Ferdinand and Isabella, had been arranged for the young Prince Henry,
who had quietly accepted for his Queen his brother's widow, six years
his senior.

France under Francis I. had risen into a state no less imposing than
Spain, and Henry began to be stirred with an ambition to take part in
the drama of events going on upon the greater stage, across the
Channel. The old dream of French conquest returned. Francis I. and
Charles V. of Germany had commenced their struggle for supremacy in
Europe. Henry's ambition was fostered by their vying with each other to
secure his friendship. He was soon launched in a deep game of
diplomacy, in which three intriguing Sovereigns were striving each to
outwit the others.

What Henry lacked in experience and craft was supplied by his
Chancellor Wolsey, whose private and personal ambition to reach the
Papal Chair was dexterously mingled with the royal game. The game was
dazzling and absorbing, but it was unexpectedly interrupted; and the
golden dreams of Erasmus and More, of a slow and orderly development in
England through an expanding intelligence, were rudely shaken.

Martin Luther audaciously nailed on the door of the Church at
Wittenberg a protest against the selling of papal indulgences, and the
pent-up hopes, griefs and despair of centuries burst into a storm which
shook Europe to its centre.

[Sidenote: Reformation, 1517]

Since England had joined in the great game of European politics, she
had advanced from being a third-rate power to the front rank among
nations; so it was with great satisfaction that Catholic Europe heard
Henry VIII. denounce the new Reformation, which had swiftly assumed
alarming proportions.

[Sidenote: Marriage with Anne Boleyn, 1533.]

But a woman's eyes were to change all this. As Henry looked into the
fair face of Anne Boleyn, his conscience began to be stirred over his
marriage with his brother's widow, Katharine. He confided his scruples
to Wolsey, who promised to use his efforts with the Pope to secure a
divorce from Katharine. But this lady was niece to Charles V., the
great Champion of the Church in its fight with Protestantism. It would
never do to alienate him. So the divorce was refused.

Henry VIII. was not as flexible and amiable now as the youth of
eighteen had been. He defied the Pope, married Anne (1533), and sent
his Minister into disgrace for not serving him more effectually. "There
was the weight which pulled me down," said Wolsey of Anne, and death
from a broken heart mercifully saved the old man from the scaffold he
would certainly have reached.

The legion of demons which had been slumbering in the King were
awakened. He would break no law, but he would bend the law to his will.
He commanded a trembling Parliament to pass an act sustaining his
marriage with Anne. Another permitting him to name his successor, and
then another--making him _supreme head of the Church in England_. The
Pope was forever dethroned in his Kingdom, and Protestantism had
achieved a bloodstained victory.

[Sidenote: His Supremacy. Henry a Protestant. Anne Boleyn's Death, 1536.]

Henry alone could judge what was orthodoxy and what heresy; but to
disagree with _him_, was death. Traitor and heretic went to the
scaffold in the same hurdle; the Catholic who denied the King's
supremacy riding side by side with the Protestant who denied
transubstantiation. The Protestantism of this great convert was
political, not religious; he despised the doctrines of Lutheranism, and
it was dangerous to believe too much and equally dangerous to believe
too little. Heads dropped like leaves in the forest, and in three years
the Queen who had overturned England and almost Europe, was herself
carried to the scaffold (1536).

It was in truth a "Reign of Terror" by an absolutism standing upon the
ruin of every rival. The power of the Barons had gone; the Clergy were
panic-stricken, and Parliament was a servant, which arose and bowed
humbly to his vacant throne at mention of his name! A member for whom
he had sent knelt trembling one day before him. "Get my bill passed to-
morrow, my little man," said the King, "or to-morrow, this head of
yours will be off." The next day the bill passed, and millions of
Church property was confiscated, to be thrown away in gambling, or to
enrich the adherents of the King.

Thomas Cromwell, who had succeeded to Wolsey's vacant place, was his
efficient instrument. This student of Machiavelli's "Prince," without
passion or hate, pity or regret, marked men for destruction, as a
woodman does tall trees, the highest and proudest names in the Kingdom
being set down in his little notebook under the head of either "Heresy"
or "Treason." Sir Thomas More, one of the wisest and best of men, would
not say he thought the marriage with Katharine had been unlawful, and
paid his head as the price of his fearless honesty.

Jane Seymour, whom Henry married the day after Anne Boleyn's execution,
died within a year at the birth of a son (Edward VI.). In 1540 Cromwell
arranged another union with the plainest woman in Europe, Anne of
Cleves; which proved so distasteful to Henry that he speedily divorced
her, and in resentment at Cromwell's having entrapped him, by a
flattering portrait drawn by Holbein, the Minister came under his
displeasure, which at that time meant death. He was beheaded in 1540,
and in that same year occurred the King's marriage with Katharine
Howard, who one year later met same fate as Anne Boleyn.

[Sidenote: Katherine Howard's Death 1541. Death of Henry VIII., 1547.]

Katharine Parr, the fifth and last wife, and an ardent Protestant and
reformer, also narrowly escaped, and would undoubtedly at last have
gone to the block. But Henry, who at fifty-six was infirm and wrecked
in health, died in the year 1547, the signing of death-warrants being
his occupation to the very end.

Whatever his motive, Henry VIII. had in making her Protestant, placed
England firmly in the line of the world's highest progress; and strange
to say, that Kingdom is most indebted to two of her worst Kings.

[Sidenote: Edward VI 1547-1555. Lady Jane Grey's Death, 1553.]

The crown passed to the son of Jane Seymour, Edward VI., a feeble boy
of sixteen, and upon his death six years later (1553), by the King's
will to Lady Jane Grey, descendant of his sister Mary. This gentle girl
of seventeen, sensitive and thoughtful, a devout reformer, who read
Greek and Hebrew and wrote Latin poetry, is a pathetic figure in
history, where we see her, the unwilling wearer of a crown for ten
days, and then with her young husband hurried to that fatal Tower, and
to death; a brief touching interlude before the crowning of Mary,
daughter of Henry and Katharine of Aragon.

Henry VIII. stoutly adhered to Protestantism, and preferred that the
succession should pass out of his own family, rather than into Catholic
dominion again. Hence his naming of Jane Grey instead of his own
daughter Mary, in case of the death of his delicate son Edward.

But Henry was no longer there to stem the tide of Catholic sentiment.
Lady Jane Grey was hurried to the block, and the Catholic Mary to the
throne.

[Sidenote: Mary 1553-1558. Calais Lost, 1558]

Her marriage with Philip II. of Spain quickly overthrew the work of her
father. Unlike Henry VIII., Mary was impelled by deep conviction. She
persecuted to save from what she believed eternal death. Her cruelty
was prompted by sincere fanaticism, mingled with the desire to please
the Catholic Philip, whose love she craved and could not win.
Disappointed in his aim to reign jointly with her, as he had hoped, he
withdrew to Spain. Unlovely and unloved, she is almost an object of
pity, as with dungeon, rack and fagot she strives to restore the
Religion she loves, and to win the husband she adores. But Philip
remained obdurately in Spain, and while she was lighting up all England
with a blaze of martyrs, Calais, the last English possession in France,
was lost. Mary died amid crushing disappointments public and personal,
after reigning five years (1553-1558).




CHAPTER VII.


[Sidenote: Elizabeth, 1558-1603.]

Elizabeth, daughter of Henry and a disgraced and decapitated Queen,
wore the crown of England. If heredity had been as much talked of then
as now, England might have feared the child of a faithless wife, and a
remorseless, bloodthirsty King. But while Mary, daughter of Katharine,
the most pious and best of mothers, had left only a great blood-spot
upon the page of History, Elizabeth's reign was to be the most wise,
prosperous and great, the Kingdom had ever known. In her complex
character there was the imperiousness, audacity and unscrupulousness of
her father, the voluptuous pleasure-loving nature of her mother, and
mingled with both, qualities which came from neither. She was a tyrant,
held in check by a singular caution, with an instinctive perception of
the presence of danger, to which her purposes always instantly bent.

The authority vested in her was as absolute as her father's, but while
her imperious temper sacrificed individuals without mercy, she ardently
desired the welfare of her Kingdom, which she ruled with extraordinary
moderation and a political sagacity almost without parallel, softening,
but not abandoning, one of her father's usurpations.

She was a Protestant without any enthusiasm for the religion she
intended to restore in England, and prayed to the Virgin in her own
private Chapel, while she was undoing the work of her Catholic sister
Mary. The obsequious apologies to the Pope were withdrawn, but the
Reformation she was going to espouse, was not the fiery one being
fought for in Germany and France. It was mild, moderate, and like her
father's, more political than religious. The point she made was that
there must be religious uniformity, and conformity to the Established
Church of England--with its new "Articles," which as she often said,
"left _opinion_ free."

It was in fact a softened reproduction of her terrible father's
attitude. The Church, (called an "Episcopacy," on account of the
jurisdiction of its Bishops,) was Protestant in doctrine, with gentle
leaning toward Catholicism in externals, held still firmly by the "Act
of Supremacy" in the controlling hand of the Sovereign. Above all else
desiring peace and prosperity for England, the keynote of Elizabeth's
policy in Church and in State was conciliation and compromise. So the
Church of England was to a great extent a compromise, retaining as much
as the people would bear of external form and ritual, for the sake of
reconciling Catholic England.

The large element to whom this was offensive was reinforced by
returning refugees who brought with them the stern doctrines of Calvin;
and they finally separated themselves altogether from a Church in which
so much of Papacy still lingered, to establish one upon simpler and
purer foundation; hence they were called "Puritans," and
"Nonconformists," and were persecuted for violation of the "Act of
Supremacy."

The masculine side of Elizabeth's character was fully balanced by her
feminine foibles. Her vanity was inordinate. Her love of adulation and
passion for display, her caprice, duplicity, and her reckless love-
affairs, form a strange background for the calm, determined, masterly
statesmanship under which her Kingdom expanded.

The subject of her marriage was a momentous one. There were plenty of
aspirants for the honor. Her brother-in-law Philip, since the
abdication of Charles V., his father, was a mighty King, ruler over
Spain and the Netherlands, and was at the head of Catholic Europe. He
saw in this vain, silly young Queen of England an easy prey. By
marrying her he could bring England back to the fold, as he had done
with her sister Mary, and the Catholic cause would be invincible.

Elizabeth was a coquette, without the personal charm supposed to belong
to that dangerous part of humanity. She toyed with an offer of marriage
as does a cat with a mouse. She had never intended to marry Philip, but
she kept him waiting so long for her decision, and so exasperated him
with her caprice, that he exclaimed at last, "That girl has ten
thousand devils in her." He little thought, that beneath that surface
of folly there was a nature hard as steel, and a calm, clear, cool
intelligence, for which his own would be no match, and which would one
day hold in check the diplomacy of the "Escurial" and outwit that of
Europe. She adored the culture brought by the "new learning;" delighted
in the society of Sir Philip Sidney, who reflected all that was best in
England of that day; talked of poetry with Spenser; discussed
philosophy with Bruno; read Greek tragedies and Latin orations in the
original; could converse in French and Italian, and was besides
proficient in another language,--the language of the fishwife,--which
she used with startling effect with her lords and ministers when her
temper was aroused, and swore like a trooper if occasion required.

But whatever else she was doing she never ceased to study the new
England she was ruling. She felt, though did not understand, the
expansion which was going on in the spirit of the people; but
instinctively realized the necessity for changes and modifications in
her Government, when the temper of the nation seemed to require it.

It was enormous common-sense and tact which converted Elizabeth into a
liberal Sovereign. Her instincts were despotic. When she bowed
instantly to the will of the Commons, almost apologizing for seeming to
resist it, it was not because she sympathized with liberal sentiments,
but because of her profound political instincts, which taught her the
danger of alienating that class upon which the greatness of her Kingdom
rested. She realized the truth forgotten by some of her successors,
that the Sovereign and the middle class _must be friends_. She
might resist and insult her lords and ministers, send great Earls and
favorites ruthlessly to the block, but no slightest cloud must come
between her and her "dear Commons" and people. This it was which made
Spenser's adulation in the "Faerie Queen" but an expression of the
intense loyalty of her meanest subject.

Perhaps it was because she remembered that the whole fabric of the
Church rested upon Parliamentary enactment, and that she herself was
Queen of England by Parliamentary sanction, that she viewed so
complacently the growing power of that body in dealing more and more
with matters supposed to belong exclusively to the Crown, as for
instance in the struggle made by the Commons to suppress monopolies in
trade, granted by royal prerogative. At the first she angrily resisted
the measure. But finding the strength of the popular sentiment, she
gracefully retreated, declaring, with royal scorn for truth, that "she
had not before known of the existence of such an evil."

In fact, lying, in her independent code of morals, was a virtue, and
one to which she owed some of her most brilliant triumphs in diplomacy.
And when the bald, unmitigated lie was at last found out, she felt not
the slightest shame, but only amusement at the simplicity of those who
had believed she was speaking the truth.

[Sidenote: Massacre of St. Bartholomew's, 1572. East India Company
Chartered, 1606. Colonization of Virginia.]

Her natural instincts, her thrift, and her love of peace inclined her
to keep aloof from the struggle going on in Europe between Protestants
and Catholics. But while the news of St. Bartholomew's Eve seemed to
give her no thrill of horror, she still sent armies and money to aid
the Huguenots in France, and to stem the persecutions of Philip in the
Netherlands, and committed England fully to a cause for which she felt
no enthusiasm. She encouraged every branch of industry, commerce,
trade, fostered everything which would lead to prosperity. Listened to
Raleigh's plans for colonization in America, permitting the New Colony
to be called "Virginia" in her honor (the Virgin Queen). She chartered
the "Merchant Company," intended to absorb the new trade with the
Indies (1600), and which has expanded into a British Empire in India.

But amid all this triumph, a sad and solitary woman sat on the throne
of England. The only relation she had in the world was her cousin, Mary
Stuart, who was plotting to undermine and supplant her.

The question of Elizabeth's legitimacy was an ever recurring one, and
afforded a rallying point for malcontents, who asserted that her
mother's marriage with Henry VIII. was invalidated by the refusal of
the Pope to sanction the divorce. Mary Stuart, who stood next to
Elizabeth in the succession, formed a centre from which a network of
intrigue and conspiracy was always menacing the Queen's peace, if not
her life, and her crown.

Scotland, since the extinction of the line of Bruce, had been ruled by
the Stuart Kings. Torn by internal feuds between her clans, and by the
incessant struggle against English encroachments, she had drawn into
close friendship with France, which country used her for its own ends,
in harassing England, so that the Scottish border was always a point of
danger in every quarrel between French and English Kings.

[Sidenote: Flodden Field 1513. Birth of Mary Stuart 1542.]

In 1502 Henry VIII. had bestowed the hand of his sister Margaret upon
James IV. of Scotland, and it seemed as if a peaceful union was at last
secured with his Northern neighbor. But in the war with France which
soon followed, James, the Scottish King, turned to his old ally. He was
killed at "Flodden Field," after suffering a crushing defeat. His
successor, James V., had maried Mary Guise. Her family was the head and
front of the ultra Catholic party in France, and her counsels probably
influenced Edward to a continual hostility to the Protestant Henry,
even though he was his uncle. The death of James in consequence of his
defeat at "Solway Moss" occurred immediately after the birth of his
daughter, Mary Stuart (1542).

This unhappy child at once became the centre of intriguing designs;
Henry VIII. wishing to betroth the little Queen to his son, afterwards
Edward VI., and thus forever unite the rival kingdoms. But the Guises
made no compromises with Protestants! Mary Guise, who was now Regent of
the realm, had no desire for a closer union with Protestant England,
and very much desired a nearer alliance with her own France. Mary
Stuart was betrothed to the Dauphin, son of Francis I., and was sent to
the French Court to be prepared by Catharine de Medici (the Italian
daughter-in-law of Francis I.) for her future exalted position.

[Sidenote: Mary Stuart Returns to England.]

In 1561, Mary returned to England. Her boy-husband had died after a
reign of two years. She was nineteen years old, had wonderful beauty,
rare intelligence, and power to charm like a siren. Her short life had
been spent in the most corrupt and profligate of Courts, under the
combined influence of Catharine de Medici, the worst woman in Europe,--
and her two uncles of the House of Guise, who were little better.
Political intrigues, plottings and crimes were in the very air she
breathed from infancy. But she was an ardent and devout Catholic, and
as such became the centre and the hope of what still remained of
Catholic England.

Elizabeth would have bartered half her possessions for the one
possession of beauty. That she was jealous of her fascinating rival
there is little doubt, but that she was exasperated at her pretensions
and at the audacious plottings against her life and throne is not
strange. In fact we wonder that, with her imperious temper, she so long
hesitated to strike the fatal blow.

Whether Mary committed the dark crimes attributed to her or not, we do
not know. But we do know, that after the murder of her wretched
husband, Lord Darnley, (her cousin, Henry Stuart), she quickly married
the man to whom the deed was directly traced. Her marriage with
Bothwell was her undoing.  Scotland was so indignant at the act, that
she took refuge in England, only to fall into Elizabeth's hands.

Mary Stuart had once audaciously said, "the reason her cousin did not
marry was because she would not lose the power of compelling men to
make love to her." Perhaps the memory of this jest made it easier to
sign the fatal paper in 1587.

[Sidenote: Mary Stuart's Death, 1587.]

When we read of Mary's irresistible charm, of her audacity, her
cunning, her genius for diplomacy and statecraft, far exceeding
Elizabeth's--when we read of all this and think of the blood of the
Guises in her veins, and the precepts of Catharine de Medici in her
heart, we realize what her usurpation would have meant for England, and
feel that she was a menace to the State, and justly incurred her fate.
Then again, when we hear of her gentle patience in her long captivity,
her prayers and piety, and her sublime courage when she walked through
the Hall at Fotheringay Castle, and laid her beautiful head on the
block as on a pillow, we are melted to pity, and almost revolted at the
act. It is difficult to be just, with such a lovely criminal, unless
one is made of such stern stuff as was John Knox.

[Sidenote: James VI., King of Scotland. Defeat of Spanish Armada, 1597.]
The son of Mary by Henry Stuart (Lord Darnley) was James VI. of
Scotland. With his mother's death, all pretensions to the English
throne were forever at rest. But Philip of Spain thought the time
propitious for his own ambitious purposes, and sent an Armada (fleet)
which approached the Coast in the form of a great Crescent, one mile
across. The little English "seadogs," not much larger than small
pleasure yachts, were led by Sir Francis Drake. They worried the
ponderous Spanish ships, and then, sending burning boats in amongst
them, soon spoiled the pretty crescent. The fleet scattered along the
Northern Coast, where it was overtaken by a frightful storm, and the
winds and the waves completed the victory, almost annihilating the
entire "Armada."

[Sidenote: Francis Bacon.]

England was great and glorious. The revolution, religious, social and
political, had ploughed and harrowed the surface which had been
fertilized with the "New Learning," and the harvest was rich. While all
Europe was devastated by religious wars there arose in Protestant
England such an era of peace and prosperity, with all the conditions of
living so improved that the dreams of Sir Thomas More's "Utopia" seemed
almost realized. The new culture was everywhere. England was garlanded
with poetry, and lighted by genius, such as the world has not seen
since, and may never see again. The name of Francis Bacon was
sufficient to adorn an age, and that of Shakespeare alone, enough to
illumine a century. Elizabeth did not create the glory of the
"Elizabethan Age," but she did create the peace and social order from
which it sprang.

If this Queen ever loved any one it was the Earl of Leicester, the man
who sent his lovely wife, Amy Robsart, to a cruel death in the delusive
hope of marrying a Queen. We are unwilling to harbor the suspicion that
she was accessory to this deed; and yet we cannot forget that she was
the daughter of Henry VIII.!--and sometimes wonder if the memory of a
crime as black as Mary's haunted her sad old age, when sated with
pleasures and triumphs, lovers no more whispering adulation in her
ears, and mirrors banished from her presence, she silently waited for
the end.

She died in the year 1603, and succumbing to the irony of fate, named
the son of Mary Stuart--James VI. of Scotland--her successor.




CHAPTER VIII.


[Sidenote: House of Stuart, 1603-1714.]

The House of Stuart had peacefully reached the long coveted throne of
England in the person of a most unkingly King. Gross in appearance and
vulgar in manners, James had none of the royal attributes of his
mother. A great deal of knowledge had been crammed into a very small
mind. Conceited, vain, pedantic, headstrong, he set to work with the
confidence of ignorance to carry out his undigested views upon all
subjects, reversing at almost every point the policy of his great
predecessor. Where she with supreme tact had loosened the screws so
that the great authority vested in her might not press too heavily upon
the nation, he tightened them. Where she bowed her imperious will to
that of the Commons, this puny tyrant insolently defied it, and
swelling with sense of his own greatness, claimed, "Divine right" for
Kingship and demanded that his people should say "the King can do no
wrong," "to question his authority is to question that of God." If he
ardently supported the Church of England, it was because he was its
head. The Catholic who would have turned the Church authority over
again to the Pope, and the "Puritans" who resisted the "Popish
practices" of the Reformed Church of England, were equally hateful to
him, for one and the same reason; they were each aiming to diminish
_his_ authority.

[Sidenote: First English Colony in New England]

When the Puritans brought to him a petition signed by 800 clergymen,
praying that they be not compelled to wear the surplice, nor make the
sign of the cross at baptism--he said they were "vipers," and if they
did not submit to the authority of the Bishops in such matters "they
should be harried out of the land." In the persecution implied by this
threat, a large body of Puritans escaped to Holland with their
families, and from thence came that band of heroic men and women on the
"Mayflower," landing at a point On the American Coast which they called
"Plymouth" (1620). A few Englishmen had in 1607 settled in Jamestown,
Virginia. These two colonies contained the germ of the future "United
States of America."

[Sidenote: "Gunpowder Plot, 1605."]

The persecution of the Catholics led to a plot to blow up Parliament
House at a time when the King was present, thinking thus at one stroke
to get rid of a usurping tyrant, and of a House of Commons which was
daily becoming more and more infected with Puritanism. The discovery of
this "Guy Fawkes gunpowder plot," prevented its consummation, and
immensely strengthened Puritan sentiment.

The keynote of Elizabeth's foreign policy had been hostility to Spain,
that Catholic stronghold, and an unwavering adherence to Protestant
Europe. James saw in that great and despotic government the most
suitable friend for such a great King as himself. He proposed a
marriage between his son Charles and the Infanta, daughter of the King
of Spain, making abject promises of legislation in his Kingdom
favorable to the Catholics; and when an indignant House of Commons
protested against the marriage, they were insolently reprimanded for
meddling with things which did not concern them, and were sent home,
not to be recalled again until the King's necessities for money
compelled him to summon them.

[Sidenote: Francis Bacon.]

During the early part of his reign the people seem to have been
paralyzed and speechless before his audacious pretensions. Great
courtiers were fawning at his feet listening to his pedantic wisdom,
and humoring his theory of the "Divine right" of hereditary Kingship.
And alas!--that we have to say it--Francis Bacon (his Chancellor),
with intellect towering above his century,--was his obsequious servant
and tool, uttering not one protest as one after another the liberties
of the people were trampled upon!

But this Spanish marriage had aroused a spirit before which a wiser man
than James would have trembled. He was standing midway between two
scaffolds, that of his mother (1587), and his son (1649). Every blow he
struck at the liberties of England cut deep into the foundation of his
throne. And when he violated the law of the land by the imposition of
taxes, without the sanction of his Parliament, he had "sowed the wind"
and the "whirlwind," which was to break on his son's head was
inevitable. Popular indignation began to be manifest, and Puritan
members of the Commons began to use language the import of which could
not be mistaken. Bacon was disgraced; his crime,--while ostensibly the
"taking of bribes,"--was in reality his being the servile tool of the
King.

[Sidenote: Translation of Bible. Great Britain.]

In reviewing the acts of this reign we see a foolish Sovereign ruled by
an intriguing adventurer whom he created Duke of Buckingham. We see him
foiled in his attempt to link the fate of England with that of Catholic
Europe;--sacrificing Sir Walter Raleigh because he had given offense to
Spain, the country whose friendship he most desired. We see numberless
acts of folly, and but three which we can commend. James did authorize
and promote the translation of the Bible which has been in use until
today. He named his double Kingdom of England and Scotland "Great
Britain." These two acts, together with his death in 1625, meet with
our entire approval.

[Sidenote: James' Death 1625. Charles I., 1625-1649.]

Charles I., son of James, was at least one thing which his father was
not. He was a gentleman. Had it not been his misfortune to inherit a
crown, his scholarly refinements and exquisite tastes, his
irreproachable morals, and his rectitude in the personal relations of
life, might have won him only esteem and honor. But these qualities
belonged to Charles Stuart the gentleman. Charles the King was
imperious, false, obstinate, blind to the conditions of his time, and
ignorant of the nature of his people. Every step taken during his reign
led him nearer to its fatal consummation.

No family in Europe ever grasped at power more unscrupulously than the
Guises in France. They were cruel and remorseless in its pursuit. It
was the warm southern blood of her mother which was Mary Stuart's ruin.
She was a Guise,--and so was her son James I.--and so was Charles I.,
her grandson. There was despotism and tyranny in their blood. Their
very natures made it impossible that they should comprehend the Anglo-
Saxon ideal of civil liberty.

Who can tell what might have been the course of History, if England had
been ruled by English Kings, which it has not been since the Conquest.
With every royal marriage there is a fresh infusion of foreign blood
drawn from fountains not always the purest,--until after centuries of
such dilutions, the royal line has less of the Anglo-Saxon in it than
any ancestral line in the Kingdom.

The odious Spanish marriage had been abandoned and Charles had married
Henrietta, sister of Louis XIII. of France.

[Sidenote: Archbishop Laud.]

The subject of religion was the burning one at that time. It soon
became apparent that the new King's personal sympathies leaned as far
as his position permitted toward Catholicism. The Church of England
under its new Primate, Archbishop Laud, was being drawn farther away
from Protestantism and closer to Papacy; while Laud in order to secure
Royal protection advocated the absolutism of the King, saying that
James in his theory of "Divine right" had been inspired by the Holy
Ghost, thus turning religion into an engine of attack upon English
liberties. Laud's ideal was a purified Catholicism--retaining auricular
confession, prayers for the dead, the Real Presence in the Sacrament,
genuflexions and crucifixes, all of which were odious to Puritans and
Presbyterians. He had a bold, narrow mind, and recklessly threw himself
against the religious instincts of the time. The same pulpit from which
was read a proclamation ordering that the Sabbath be treated as a
holiday, and not a Holy-day, was also used to tell the people that
resistance to the King's will was "Eternal damnation."

This made the Puritans seem the defenders of the liberties of the
country, and drew hosts of conservative Churchmen, such as Pym, to
their side, although not at all in sympathy with a religious fanaticism
which condemned innocent pleasures, and all the things which adorn
life, as mere devices of the devil. Such were the means by which the
line was at last sharply drawn. The Church of England and tyranny on
one side, and Puritanism and liberty on the other.

But there was one thing which at this moment was of deeper interest to
the King than religion. He wanted,--he must have,--money.
_Religion_ and _money_ are the two things upon which the fate
of nations has oftenest hung. These two dangerous factors were both
present now, and they were going to make history very fast.

On account of a troublesome custom prevailing in his Kingdom, Charles
must first summon his Parliament, and they must grant the needed
supplies. His father had by the discovery of the theory of "Divine
right," prepared the way to throw off these Parliamentary trammels. But
that could only be reached by degrees. So Parliament was summoned. It
had no objection to voting the needed subsidies, but,--the King must
first promise certain reforms, political and religious, and--dismiss
his odious Minister Buckingham.

Charles, indignant at this outrage, dissolved the body, and appealed to
the country for a loan. The same reply came from every quarter. "We
will gladly lend the money, but it must be done through Parliament."
The King was thoroughly aroused. If the loan will not be voluntary, it
must be forced. A tax was levied, fines and penalties for its
resistance meted out by subservient judges.

[Sidenote: John Hampden, Petition of Right.]

John Hampden was one of the earliest victims. His means were ample, the
sum was small, but his manhood was great. "Not one farthing, if it me
cost my life," was his reply as he sat in the prison at Gate House.

The supply did not meet the King's demand. Overwhelmed with debt and
shame and rage, he was obliged again to resort to the hated means.
Parliament was summoned. The Commons, with memory of recent outrages in
their hearts, were more determined than before. The members drew up a
"_Petition of Right_," which was simply a reaffirmation of the
inviolability of the rights of person, of property and of speech--a
sort of second "Magna Charta."

They resolutely and calmly faced their King, the "Petition" in one
hand, the granted subsidies in the other. For a while he defied them;
but the judges were whispering in his ear that the "Petition" would not
be binding upon him, and Buckingham was urging him to yield. Perhaps it
was Charles Stuart the gentleman who hesitated to receive money in
return for solemn promises which he did not intend to keep! But Charles
the King signed the paper, which seven judges out of twelve, in the
highest court of the realm, were going to pronounce invalid because the
King's power was beyond the reach of Parliament. It was inherent in him
as King, and bestowed by God. _Any infringement upon his prerogative
by Act of Parliament was void!_

With king so false, and with justice so polluted at its fountain, what
hope was there for the people but in Revolution?

[Sidenote: Massachusetts Chartered, 1629]

From the tyranny of the Church under Laud, a way was opened when, in
1629, Charles granted a Charter to the Colony of Massachusetts. With a
quiet, stern enthusiasm the hearts of men turned toward that refuge in
America. Not men of broken fortunes, adventurers, and criminals, but
owners of large landed estates, professional men, some of the best in
the land, who abandoned home and comfort to face intolerable hardships.
One wrote, "We are weaned from the delicate milk of our Mother England
and do not mind these trials." As the pressure increased under Laud,
the stream toward the West increased in volume; so that in ten years
20,000 Englishmen had sought religious freedom across the sea, and had
founded a Colony which, strange to say,--under the influence of an
intense religious sentiment,--became itself a Theocracy and a new
tyranny, although one sternly just and pure.

The dissolute, worthless Buckingham had been assassinated, and Charles
had wept passionate tears over his dead body. But his place had been
filled by one far better suited to the King's needs at a time when he
had determined not again to recall Parliament, but to rule without it
until resistance to his measures had ceased.

It was with no sinister purpose of establishing a despotism such as a
stronger man might have harbored, that he made this resolve. What
Charles wanted was simply the means of filling his exchequer; and if
Parliament would not give him that except by a dicker for reforms, and
humiliating pledges which he could not keep, why then he would find new
ways of raising money without them. His father had done it before him,
he had done it himself. With no Commons there to rate and insult him,
it could be done without hindrance.

He was not grand enough, nor base enough, nor was he rich enough, to
carry out any organized design upon the country. He simply wanted
money, and had such blind confidence in Kingship, that any very serious
resistance to his authority did not enter his dreams. It was the
limitations of his intelligence which proved his ruin, his inability to
comprehend a new condition in the spirit of his people. Elizabeth would
have felt it, though she did not understand it, and would have loosened
the screws, without regard for her personal preferences, and by doing
it, so bound the people to her, that her policy would have been their
policy. Charles was as wise as the engineer who would rivet down the
safety-valves!

Sir Thomas Wentworth (Earl Strafford), who had taken the place of
Buckingham, was an apostate from the party of liberty. Disappointed in
becoming a leader in the Commons he had drawn gradually closer to the
King, who now leaned upon him as the vine upon the oak.

[Sidenote: Earl Strafford. The "Star Chamber."]

This man's ideal was to build up in  England just such a despotism as
Richelieu was building in France. The same imperious temper, the same
invincible will and administrative genius, marked him as fitted for the
work. While Charles was feebly scheming for revenue, he was laying
large and comprehensive plans for a system of oppression, which should
_yield_ the revenue,--and for Arsenals and Forts--and a standing
Army, and a rule of terror which should hold the nation in subjection
while these things were preparing. He was clear-sighted enough to see
that "absolutism" was not to be accomplished by a system of reasoning.
He would not urge it as a dogma, but as a fact.

The "Star Chamber," a tribunal for the trying of a certain class of
offences, was brought to a state of fresh efficiency. Its punishments
could be anything this side of death. A clergyman accused of speaking
disrespectfully of Laud, is condemned to pay 5,000 pounds to the King,
300 pounds to the aggrieved Archbishop himself, one side of his nose
is to be slit, one ear cut off, and one cheek branded. The next week
this to be repeated on the other side, and then followed by
imprisonment subject to pleasure of the Court. Another who has written
a book considered seditious, has the same sentence carried out, only
varied by imprisonment for life.

These were some of the embellishments of the system called "Thorough,"
which was carried on by the two friends and confederates, Laud and
Strafford, who were in their pleasant letters to each other all the
time lamenting that the power of the "Star Chamber" was so limited, and
judges so timid! Is it strange that the plantation in Massachusetts had
fresh recruits?

But the more serious work was going on under Strafford's vigorous
management. "Monopolies" were sold once more, with a fixed duty on
profits added to the price of the original concession. Every article in
use by the people was at last bought up by Monopolists, who were
compelled to add to the price of these commodities, to compensate for
the tax they must pay into the King's Treasury.

[Sidenote: Monoplies. Ship Money.]

"Ship Money" was a tax supposably for the building of a Navy, for which
there was no accounting to the people, the amount and frequency of the
levy being discretionary with the King. It was always possible and
imminent, and was the most odious of all the methods adopted for
wringing money from the nation, while resistance to it, as to all other
such measures, was punished by the Star Chamber in such pleasant
fashion as would please Strafford and Laud, whose creatures the judges
were.

Hampden, as before, championed the rights of the people in his own
person, going to prison and facing death, if it were necessary, rather
than pay the amount of 20 shillings. But that the taxes were paid by
the people is evident, for so successful was this scheme of revenue
that many predicted the King would never again call a Parliament. What
would be the need of a Parliament, if he did not require money? The
Royalists were pleased, and the people were wisely patient, knowing
that such a financial fabric must fall at the first breath of a storm,
and then their time would come.




CHAPTER IX.


The storm came in the form of a war upon Scotland, to enforce the
established Church, which it had cast out "root and branch" for the
Presbyterianism which pleased it. The Loyalists were alarmed by rumors
that Scotland was holding treasonable communication with her old ally,
France; and after an interval of eleven years, a Parliament was
summoned, which was destined to outlive the King.

[Sidenote: Long Parliament. Strafford Impeached.]

The Commons came together in stern temper, Pym standing promptly at the
Bar of the House of Lords with Strafford's impeachment for High
Treason. The great Earl's apologists among the Lords, his own ingenious
and powerful pleadings, the King's entreaties and worthless promises,
all were in vain.

The King saw the whole fabric of tyranny crumbling before his eyes. He
was overawed and dared not refuse his signature to the fatal paper. It
is said that as Strafford passed to the block, Laud, who was at the
window of the room where he too was a prisoner, fainted as his old
companion in cruelty stopped to say farewell to him.

There were a few moments of silence, then,--a wild exultant shout. "His
head is off--His head is off."

[Sidenote: Strafford's Death. Death of Laud.]

The execution of the Archbishop swiftly followed, then the abolition of
the Star Chamber, and of the High Commission Court; then a bill was
passed requiring that Parliament be summoned once in three years, and a
law enacted _forbidding its dissolution except by its own
consent_.

They were rapidly nearing the conception that Parliament does not exist
by sanction of the King, but the King by sanction of Parliament.

What could be done with a King whom no promises could bind--who, while
in the act of giving solemn pledges to Parliament in order to save
Strafford, was perfidiously planning to overawe it by military force?
The attempted arrest of Hampden, Pym, and three other leaders was part
of this "Army Plot," which made civil war inevitable. The trouble had
resolved itself into a deadly conflict between King and Parliament. If
he resorted to arms, so must they.

If Hampden stands out pre-eminent as the Champion who like a great
Gladiator fought the battle of civil freedom, Pym is no less
conspicious in having grasped the principles on which it must be
fought. He saw that if either Crown or Parliament must go down, better
for England that it should be the crown. He saw also, that the vital
principle in Parliament lay in the House of Commons. If the King
refused to act with them, it should be treated as an abdication, and
Parliament must act without him, and if the Lords obstructed reform,
then they must be told that the Commons must act alone, rather than let
the Kingdom perish.

This was the theory upon which the future action was based.
Revolutionary and without precedent it has since been accepted as the
correct construction of English Constitutional principles.

[Sidenote: Oliver Cromwell.]

Better would it have been for Charles had he let the ship sail, which
was to have borne Hampden and his Cousin, Oliver Cromwell, toward the
"Valley of the Connecticut." He recalled the man who was to be his evil
genius when he gave that order. Cromwell could not so accurately have
defined the constitutional right of his cause as Pym had done, nor make
himself its adored head as was Hampden; but he had a more compelling
genius than either. His figure stands up colossal and grim away above
all others from the time he raised his praying, psalm-singing army,
until the defeat of the King's forces at Naseby (1645), the flight of
the King and his subsequent surrender.

It was at this time that Cromwell began to manifest as much ability as
a political as he had done as a military leader. Hampden had fallen on
the battlefield, Pym was dead, he was virtual head of the cause.
Perhaps it needed just such a terrible, uncompromising instrument, to
carry England over such a crisis as was before her. Not
overscrupulous about means, no troublesome theories about Church or
State--no reverence for anything but God and "the Gospel."

When Parliament halted and hesitated at the last about the trial of the
King, it was the iron hand of Cromwell which strangled opposition, by
placing a body of troops at the door, and excluding 140 doubtful
members. A Parliament, with the House of Lords effaced, and with 140
obstructing members excluded, leaving only a small body of men of the
same mind, sustained by the moral sentiment of a Cromwellian Army,--can
scarcely be called a Representative body; nor can it be considered
competent to create a Court for the trial of a King! It was only
justifiable as a last and desperate measure of self-defence.

[Sidenote: Death of Charles I., 1649]

Charles wins back some of our sympathy and esteem by dying like a brave
man and a gentleman. He conducted himself with marvellous dignity and
self-possession throughout the trial, and at the end of seven days,
laid his head upon the block in front of his royal palace of Whitehall.

That small body of men, calling itself the "House of Commons," declared
England a "Commonwealth," which was to be governed without any King or
House of Lords. Cromwell was "Lord Protector of England, Scotland and
Ireland." He scorned to be called King, but no King was ever more
absolute in authority. It was a righteous tyranny, replacing a vicious
one.

There was no longer an eager hand dipping into the pockets of the
people, compelling the poor to share his scanty earnings with the King.
There was safety, and there was prosperity. But there was rage and
detestation, as Cromwell's soldiers with gibes and jeers, hewed and
hacked at venerable altars and pictures, and insulted the religious
sentiment of one-half the people. Empty niches, mutilated carvings, and
fragments of stained glass, from

   "Windows richly dight,
    Casting a dim religious light,"

show us to-day the track of those profane fanatics.

[Sidenote: Long Parliament Dispersed.]

When the remnant of the House of Commons calling itself a Parliament
was not alert enough in its obedience, Cromwell marched into the Hall
with a company of musketeers, and calling them names neither choice nor
flattering, ordered them to "get out," then locked the door, and put
the key into his pocket. Such was the "dissolution" of a Parliament
which had been strong enough to overthrow a Government, and to send a
King to the scaffold! This might be fittingly described as a
_personal_ Government!

He was loved by none but the Army. There was no strong current of
popular sentiment to uphold him as he carried out his arbitrary
purposes; no engines of cruelty to fortify his authority; no "Star
Chamber" to enforce his order. Men were not being nailed by the ears to
the pillory, nor mutilated and branded, for resisting his will. But the
spectacle was for that reason all the more astonishing: a great nation,
full of rage, hate and bitterness, but silent and submissive under the
spell of one dominating personality.

He had no experience in diplomatic usages, no skilled ministers to
counsel and warn, but by his foreign policy he made himself the terror
of Europe; Spain, France, and the United Provinces courting his
friendship, while Protestantism had protection at home and abroad.

That the man who did this had a commanding genius, all must be agreed.
But whether he was the incarnation of evil, or of righteousness, must
ever remain in dispute. We shall never know whether or not his death,
in 1658, cut short a career which might have passed from a justifiable
to an unjustifiable tyranny.

[Sidenote: Charles II., 1660.]

A fabric held up by one sustaining hand, must fall when that hand is
withdrawn. Cromwell left none who could support his burden. Charles
II., who had been more than once foiled in trying to get in by the back
door of his father's kingdom, was now invited to enter by the front,
and amid shouts of joy was placed on the throne.




CHAPTER X.


Time brings its revenges. The instinct for beauty, and for joy and
gladness, had been for twenty-one years repressed by harshly
administered Puritanism. There was a thrill of delight in greeting a
gracious, smiling king, who would lift the spell of gloom from the
nation. Charles did this, more fully than was expected. Never was the
law of reaction more fully demonstrated! The Court was profligate, and
the age licentious. The reign of Charles was an orgy. When he needed
more money for his pleasures, he bargained with Louis XIV. to join him
in a war upon Protestantism in Holland, for the consideration of
200,000 pounds!

We wonder how he dared thus to goad and prod the British Lion, which
had devoured his Father. But that animal had grown patient since the
Protectorate. England treated Charles like a spoiled child whose
follies entertained her, and whose misdemeanors she had not the heart
to punish.

[Sidenote: Act of Habeas Corpus, 1679.]

The "Roundheads," who had trampled upon the "Cavaliers," were now
trampled upon in return. But even at such a time as this the liberties
of the people were expanding. The Act of "Habeas Corpus" forever
prevented imprisonment, without showing in Court just cause for the
detention of the prisoner.

[Sidenote: Death of Charles II., 1685.]
The House of Stuart, those children of the Guises, was always Catholic
at heart, and Charles was at no pains to conceal his preferences. A
wave of Catholicism alarmed the people, who tried to divert the
succession from James, the brother of the King, who was extreme and
fanatical in his devotion  to the Church of Rome. But in 1685, the
Masks and routs and revels were interrupted. The pleasure-loving
Charles, who "had never said a foolish thing, and never done a wise
one," lay dead in his palace at Whitehall, and James II. was King of
England.

[Sidenote: Milton and  Bunyan.]

Three names have illumined this reign, in other respects so inglorious.
In 1666 Newton discovered the law of gravitation and created a new
theory of the Universe. In 1667 Milton published "Paradise Lost," and
in 1672 Bunyan gave to the world his allegory, "Pilgrim's Progress."
There was no inspiration to genius in the cause of King and Cavaliers.
But the stern problems of Puritanism touched two souls with the divine
afflatus. The sacred Epic of Milton, sublime in treatment as in
conception, must ever stand unique and solitary in literature; while
"Pilgrim's Progress," in plain homely dish served the same heavenly
food. The theme of both was the problem of sin and redemption with
which the Puritan soul was gloomily struggling.

The reign of James II. was the last effort of royal despotism to
recover its own. He tried to recall the right of Habeas Corpus;--to
efface Parliament--and to overawe the Clergy, while insidiously
striving to establish Papacy as the religion of the Kingdom. Chief
Justice Jeffries, that most brutal of men, was his efficient aid, and
boasted that he had in the service of James hanged more traitors than
all his predecessors since the Conquest!

The names Whig and Tory had come into existence in this struggle. Whig,
standing for the opponents to Catholic domination, and Tory for the
upholders of the King. But so flagrantly was the Catholic policy of
James conducted, that his upholders were few. In three years from his
accession, Whig and Tory alike were so alarmed, that they secretly sent
an invitation to the King's son-in-law, William, Prince of Orange, to
come and accept the Crown.

[Sidenote: James II. Deposed.]

William responded at once, and when he landed with 14,000 men, James,
paralyzed, powerless, unable to raise a force to meet him, abandoned
his throne without a struggle and took refuge in France.

[Sidenote: William and Mary, 1689-1702.]

The throne was formally declared vacant and William and Mary his wife
were invited to rule jointly the Kingdom of England, Ireland and
Scotland (1689).

The House of Stuart, which seems to have brought not one single virtue
to the throne, was always secretly conspiring with Catholicism in
Europe. Louis XIV., as the head of Catholic Europe at this time, was
the natural protector of the dethroned King. His aim had long been, to
bring England into the Catholic European alliance, and, of course, if
possible, to make it a dependency of France. A conspiracy with Louis to
accomplish this end occupied England's exiled King during the rest of
his life.

[Sidenote: Battle of Boyne, 1690.]

But European Protestantism had for its leader the man who now sat upon
the throne of England. In fact he had probably accepted that throne in
order to further his larger plans for defeating the expanding power of
Louis XIV. in Europe. Broad and comprehensive in his statesmanship,
noble and just in character, an able military leader, England was safe
in his strong hand. Conspiracies were put down, one French army after
another, with the despicable James at its head, was driven back; the
purpose at one time being to establish James at the head of an
independent Kingdom in Catholic Ireland. But that would-be King of
Ireland was humiliated and sent back to France by the battle of Boyne
Battle of Boyne (1690).

[Sidenote: Bill of Rights]

As important as was all this, things of even greater moment were going
on in the life of England at this time. As a wise householder employs
the hours of sunshine to repair the leaks revealed by the storm, just
so Parliament now set about strengthening and riveting the weak spots
revealed by the storms which had swept over England.

What the "_Magna Charta_" and "_Petition of Right_" had
asserted in a general way, was now by the "_Bill of Rights_,"
established by specific enactments, which one after another declared
what the King should and what he should not do. One of these Acts
touched the very central nerve of English freedom.

If _religion_ and _money_ are the two important factors in
the life of a nation, it is _money_ upon which its life from day
to day depends! A Government can exist without money about as long as a
man without air! So the act which gave to the House of Commons
exclusive power to grant supplies, and also to determine to what use
they shall be applied, transferred the real authority to the people,
whose will the Commons express.

The struggle between the Crown and Parliament ends with this, and the
theory of Pym is vindicated. The Sovereign and the House of Lords from
that time could no more take money from the Treasury of England, than
from that of France. Henceforth there can be no differences between
King and people. _They must be friends._ A Ministry which forfeits
the friendship of the Commons, cannot stand an hour, and supplies will
stop until they are again in accord. In other words, the Government of
England had become a Government _of the people_.

William regarded these enactments as evidence of a lack of confidence
in him. Conscious of his own magnanimous aims, of his power and his
purpose to serve England as she had not been served before, he felt
hurt and wounded at fetters which had not been placed upon such Kings
as Charles I. and his sons. We wonder that a man so exalted and so
superior, did not see that it was for future England that these laws
were framed, for a time when perhaps a Prince not generous, and noble,
and pure should be upon the throne.

William was silent, grave, cold, reserved almost to sternness. He had
none of the qualities which awaken personal enthusiasm. He was one of
those great leaders who are worshipped from afar. Besides, it is not an
easy task to rule another's household. Benefits however great, reforms
however wise, are sure to be considered an impertinence by some. Then--
there might be another "Restoration," and wary ambitious nobles were
cautiously making a record which would not unfit them for its benefits
when it came. He lived in an atmosphere of conspiracy, suspicion, and
loyalty grudgingly bestowed. But these were only the surface currents.
Anglo-Saxon England recognized in this foreign King, a man with the
same race instincts, the same ideals of integrity, honor, justice and
personal liberty, as her own; qualities possessed by few of her native
sovereigns since the good King Alfred.

The expensive wars carried on against James and his confederate, Louis
XIV., compelled loans which were the beginning of the National Debt.
That and the establishing of the Bank of England, form part of the
history of this reign.

In 1702 William died, and Mary having also died a few years earlier,
the succession passed to her sister Anne, who was to be the last
Sovereign of the House of Stuart.




CHAPTER XI.


[Sidenote: Anne, Queen of England.]

William's policy had not been bounded by his Island Kingdom. It
included the cause of Protestant Europe. An apparently invincible King
sat on the throne of France, gradually drawing all adjacent Kingdoms
into his dominion. When in defiance of past pledges he placed his
grandson upon the vacant throne of Spain, and declared that the
Pyrenees should exist no more, even Catholic Austria revolted, and
beginning to fear Louis more than Protestantism, new combinations were
formed, England still holding aloof, and striving to keep out of the
Alliance. But that all-absorbing King had long ago fixed his eye upon
England as his future prey, and when he refused to recognize Anne as
lawful Queen and declared his intention of placing the "Pretender"
(illegitimate son of James) upon the throne, there could be no more
hesitation. This Jupiter who had removed the Pyrenees, might wipe out
the English Channel too! Hitherto the name Whig had stood for the
adherents to the war policy, and Tory for its opponents. Now, all was
changed. Even the stupid Anne and her Tory friends saw that William's
policy must be her policy if she would keep her Kingdom.

[Sidenote: Marlborough.]

Fortunate was it for England, and for Europe at this time that a
"Marlborough" had climbed to distinction by a slender, and not too
reputable ladder. This man, John Churchill, who a few years ago had
been unknown, without training, almost without education, was by pure
genius fitted to become, upon the death of William, the guiding spirit
of the Grand Alliance.

He had none of the qualities possessed by William, and all the
qualities that leader had not. He had no moral grandeur, no stern
adherence to principles. Whig and Tory were alike to him, and he
followed whichever seemed to lead to success, and to the richest
rewards. He was perfectly sordid in his aims, invincible in his good
nature, with a careless, easy _bonhomie_ which captured the
hearts of Europeans, who called him "the handsome Englishman." As
adroit in managing men as armies, as wise in planning political moves
as campaigns, using tact and diplomacy as effectually as artillery, he
assumed the whole direction of the European war; managed every
negotiation, planned every battle, and achieved its great and
overwhelming success.

[Sidenote: "Battle of Blenheim, 1704."]

"Blenheim" turned the tide of French victory, and broke the spell of
Louis' invincibility. The loss at that battle was something more than
men and fortresses. It was _prestige_, and that self-confidence
which had made the great King believe that nothing could resist his
purposes. It was a new sensation for him to bend his neck, and to say
that he acknowledged Anne Queen of England.

Marlborough received as his reward the splendid estate upon which was
built the palace of "Blenheim." Then, when in the sunshine of peace
England needed him no more, Anne quarrelled with his wife, her adored
friend, and cast him aside as a rusty sword no longer of use. But for
years Europe heard the song "Malbrook s'en va-t-en guerre," and his
awe-inspiring name was used to frighten children in France and in
England.

His passionate love for his wife, Sarah Churchill, ran like a golden
thread of romance through Marlborough's stormy career. On the eve of
battle, and in the first flush of victory, he must first and last write
her; and he would more willingly meet 20,000 Frenchmen than his wife's
displeasure! Indeed Sarah seems to have waged her own battles very
successfully with her tongue, and also to have had her own diplomatic
triumphs. Through Anne's infatuation for her, she was virtually ruler
while the friendship lasted. But to acquire ascendancy over Anne was
not much of an achievement.

It is said that there was but one duller person than the Queen in her
Kingdom, and that was the royal Consort, George, Prince of Denmark.
Happy was it for England that of the seventeen children born into this
royal household, not one survived. The succession, in the absence of
Anne's heirs, was pledged to George, Elector of Hanover, a remote
descendant of James I.

It was during Anne's reign that English literature assumed a new
character. The stately and classic form being set aside for a style
more familiar, and which concerned itself with the affairs of everyday
life. Letters showed with a mild splendor, while Steele, Sterne, Swift,
Defoe and Fielding were writing, and Addison's "Spectator" was on every
breakfast-table.

[Sidenote: Anne died, 1714.]

In the year 1714 Anne died, and George I, of the House of Hanover, was
King of England,--an England which, thanks to the great soldier and
Duke, would never more be molested by the intriguing designs of a
French King, and which held in her hand Gibraltar, the key to the
Mediterranean.

[Sidenote: House of Hanover, 1714. George I.]

King George I. was a German grandson of Elizabeth, sister of Charles I.
Deeply attached to his own Hanover, this stupid old man came slowly and
reluctantly to assume his new honors. He could not speak English; and
as he smoked his long pipe, his homesick soul was soothed by the ladies
of his Court, who cut caricature figures out of paper for his
amusement, while Robert Walpole relieved him of affairs of State. As
ignorant of the politics of England as of its language, Walpole
selected the King's Ministers and determined the policy of his
Government; establishing a precedent which has always been followed.
Since that time it has been the duty of the Prime Minister to form the
Ministry; and no sovereign since Anne has ever appeared at a Cabinet
Council, nor has refused assent to a single Act of Parliament.

[Sidenote: Whig rule.]

Such a King was merely a symbol of Protestantism and of Constitutional
Government. But this stream of royal dulness which set in from Hanover
in 1714, came as a great blessing at the time. It enabled England to be
ruled for thirty years by the party which had since the usurpation of
James I. stood for the rights of the people. Walpole created a Whig
Government. The Whigs had never wavered from certain principles upon
which they had risen to power. There must be no tampering with justice,
nor with the freedom of the press, nor any attempt to rule
independently of Parliament. Thirty years of rule under these
principles converted them into an integral part of the national life.
The habit of loyalty to them was so established by this long Government
of the Whig party, that Englishmen forgot such things could be, that it
was possible to infringe upon the sacred liberties of the people.

However much "Whig" and "Tory" have seemed to change since we first
hear of them in the time of James I., they have in fact remained
essentially the same; the Whigs always tending to limit the power of
the crown, and the Tories to limit that of the people. At the time of
Walpole the Tories had been the supporters of the Pretender and of the
High Church party, the Whigs of the policy of William and
Protestantism. Their predecessors were the "Cavaliers" and
"Roundheads," and their successors to-day are found in the "Liberals"
and "Conservatives."

[Sidenote: South-Sea Bubble, 1720.]

There was at last peace abroad and prosperity at home. The latter was
interrupted for a time in 1720 by the speculative madness created by
the "South-Sea Bubble." Men were almost crazed by the rise in the value
of shares from 100 pounds to 1,000 pounds; and then plunged into
despair and ruin when they suddenly dropped to nothing. The suffering
caused by this wreck of fortunes was great. But industries revived,
and prosperity and wealth returned with little to disturb them again
until the death of George I. in 1727; when another George came over
from Hanover to occupy the English throne.

[Sidenote: Death of George, 1727.]

George II. had one advantage over his father. He did speak the English
language. Nor was he content to smoke his pipe and entrust his Kingdom
to his Ministers, which was a doubtful advantage for the nation. But
his clever wife, Queen Caroline, believed thoroughly in Walpole, and
when she was controlled by the Minister, and then in turn herself
controlled the policy of the King, that simple gentleman supposed that
he,--George II.,--was ruling his own Kingdom. His small, narrow mind
was incapable of statesmanship; but he was a good soldier. Methodical,
stubborn and passionate, he was a King who needed to be carefully
watched, and adroitly managed, to keep him from doing harm.

[Sidenote: The "Young Pretender." Culloden Moor, 1746.]

There was a young "Pretender" in these days (Charles Edward Stuart),
who was conspiring with Louis XV., as his father had done with Louis
XIV., to get to the English throne. We see him flitting about Europe
from time to time, landing here and there on the British Coast--until
when finally defeated at "Culloden Moor," 1746, this wraith of the
House of Stuart disappears--dying obscurely in Rome; and "Wha'll be
King but Charlie," and "Over the Water to Charlie," linger only as the
echo of a lost cause.

[Sidenote: "Seven Years' War."]

There was a time of despondency when England seemed to be annexed to
Hanover, following her fortunes, and sharing her misfortunes in the
"seven years' war" over the Austrian succession, as if the Great
Kingdom were a mere dependency to the little Electorate; and all to
please the stubborn King. Desiring peace above all things England was
no sooner freed from one entanglement, than she was plunged into
another.

In India, the English "Merchant Company," chartered by Elizabeth in
1600, had expanded to a power. One of the native Princes, jealous of
these foreign intruders in Bengal, and roused, it was said, by the
French to expel them, committed that deed at which the world has
shuddered ever since. One hundred and fifty settlers and traders, were
thrust into an air-tight dungeon--an Indian midsummer. Maddened with
heat and with thirst, most of them died before morning, trampling upon
each other in frantic efforts to get air and water. This is the story
of the "Black Hole of Calcutta;" which led to the victories of Clive,
and the establishment of English Empire in India, 1757.

[Sidenote: British Dominion in India, 1757. Battle of Quebec, 1760.]

Two years later a quarrel over the boundaries of their American
colonies brought the French and English into direct conflict. Gen.
Wolfe, the English Commander, was killed at the moment of victory in
scaling the walls of Quebec. Montcalm, the French commander, being
saved the humiliation of seeing the loss of Canada (1760), by sharing
the same fate.

The dream of French Empire in America was at an end; and with the
cession of Florida by Spain, England was mistress of the eastern half
of the Continent from Nova Scotia to the Gulf of Mexico, and from the
Atlantic to the Mississippi. So since the days of Elizabeth, and from
seed dropped by her hand, an Eastern and a Western Empire had been
added to that island Kingdom, whose highest dream had been to get back
some of her lost provinces in France. Instead of that it was to be her
destiny to girdle the Earth, so that the Sun in its entire course
should never cease to shine upon British Dominions.

[Sidenote: John Wesley.]

Side by side with the aspiration which uplifts a nation, there is
always a tendency toward degradation, which can only be arrested by the
infusion of a higher spiritual life. Strong alcoholic liquors had taken
the place of beer in England (to avoid the excessive tax imposed upon
it) and the grossest intemperance prevailed in the early part of this
reign. John Wesley introduced a regenerative force when he went about
among the people preaching "Methodism," a pure and simple religion. Not
since Augustine had the hearts of men been so touched, and a new life
and new spirit came into being, better than all the prosperity and
territorial expansion of the time.

Walpole had passed from view long before the stirring changes we have
alluded to. A new hand was guiding the affairs of State; the hand of
William Pitt.




CHAPTER XII.


At the close of the Seven Years' War, England had driven the French out
of Canada,--her ships which had traversed the Pacific from one end to
the other, (Capt. Cook) had wherever they touched, claimed islands for
the Crown; she had projected into the heart of India English
institutions and civilization.

Mistress of North America, and of the Pacific Isles, and future
mistress of India, she had left in comparative insignificance those
European States whose power was bounded by a single Continent. And all
this,--in the reign of the puniest King who had ever sat upon her
throne! As if to show that England was great not through--but in spite
of, her Kings.

[Sidenote: George III. 1760-1820.]

When in 1760, George III. came to the throne, thirteen prosperous
American Colonies were a source of handsome revenue to the mother
country, by whom they were regarded as receptacles for surplus
population, and a good field for unsuccessful men and adventurers.
These children were frequently reminded that they owed England a great
debt of gratitude. They had cost her expensive Indian and French wars
for which she should expect them to reimburse her as their prosperity
grew. They were to make nothing themselves, not so much as a horseshoe;
but to send their raw material to English mills and factories, and when
it was returned to them in wares and manufactured articles, they were
to pay such taxes as were imposed, with grateful hearts to the kind
Government which was so good as to rule them.

[Sidenote: Stamp Act, 1765.]

If the Colonies had still needed the protection of England from the
French, they might never have questioned the propriety of their
treatment. They were at heart intensely loyal, and the thought of
severance from the Mother Country probably did not exist in a single
breast. But they had since the fall of Quebec a feeling of security
which was a good background for independence, if their manhood required
its assertion. They were Anglo-Saxons, and perfectly understood the
long struggle for civil rights which lay behind them. So when in 1765
they were told that they must bear their share of the burden of
National Debt which had been increased by wars in their behalf, and to
that end a "Stamp Act" had been passed, they very carefully looked into
the demand. This Act required that every legal document drawn in the
Colonies, will, deed, note, draft, receipt, etc., be written upon paper
bearing an expensive Government stamp.

The thirteen Colonies, utterly at variance upon most subjects, were
upon this agreed: _They would not submit to the tax._ They had
read the Magna Charta, they knew that the Stamp Act violated its most
vital principle. This tax had been framed to extort money from men who
had no representation in Parliament, hence without their consent.

Pitt vehemently declared that the Act was a tyranny, Burke and Fox
protested against it, the brain and the heart of England compelled the
repeal of the Act; Pitt declaring that the spirit shown in America was
the same that in England had withstood the Stuarts, and refused "Ship
Money." There was rejoicing and ringing of bells over the repeal, but
before the echoes had died away another plan was forming in the narrow
recesses of the King's brain.

George III. had read English History. He remembered that if Parliaments
grow obstructive, the way is not to fight them but to pack them with
the right kind of material. Tampering with the boroughs, had so filled
the House of Commons with Tories that it had almost ceased to be a
representative body, and if Pitt would not bow to his wishes, he would
find a Minister who would. Another tax was devised.

[Sidenote: Tax on Tea.]

Threepence a pound upon tea, shipped direct to America from India,
would save the impost to England, bring tea at a cheaper rate to the
Colonies (even with the added tax), and at the same time yield a
handsome revenue to the Government.

The Colonists were not at all moved by the idea of getting cheaper tea.
They had taken their stand in this matter of taxation without
representation; they would never move from it one inch. When the cargo
of tea arrived in Boston harbor, it was thrown overboard by men
disguised as Indians.

George III. in a rage closed the port of Boston, cancelled the Charter
of Massachusetts, withdrew the right of electing its own council and
judges, investing the _Governor_ with these rights, to whom he
also gave the power to send rebellious and seditious prisoners to
England for trial. Then to make all this sure of fulfilment, he sent
troops to enforce the order, in command of General Gage, whom he also
appointed _Governor_ of Massachusetts.

Fox said, "How intolerable that it should be in the power of one
blockhead to do so much mischief!" The obstinacy of George III. cost
England her dearest and fairest possession. It is almost impossible to
picture what would be her power to-day if she had continued to be
mistress of North America!

All unconscious of his stupendous folly, the King was delighted at his
own firmness. He rubbed his hands in high glee as he said,--"The die
is cast, the Colonies must submit or triumph," meaning of course that
"triumph" was a thing impossible. Pitt (now Earl Chatham), Burke, Fox,
even the Tory House of Lords, petitioned and implored in vain. The
confident, stubborn King stood alone, and upon him lies the whole
responsibility--Lord North simply acting as his compliant tool.

The colonies united as one, all local differences forgotten. As they
fought at Lexington and at Bunker Hill, the idea of something more than
_resistance_ was born--the idea of _independence_.

A letter from the Government addressed to the Commander-in-Chief as
"George Washington, Esq.," was sent back unopened. Battles were lost
and won, the courage and resources of the Americans holding out for
years as if by miracle, until when reinforced by France the end drew
near; and was reached with the defeat of Lord Cornwallis at Yorktown.

[Sidenote: Independence Acknowledged, 1782.]

It was a dreary morning in 1782 when a humiliated King stood before the
House of Lords and acknowledged the independence of the United States
of America!

Thus ended a contest which the Earl of Chatham had said "was conceived
in injustice, and nurtured in folly."

It was during the American war that the Press rose to be a great
counterbalancing power. Popular sentiment no longer finding an outlet
in the House of Commons, sought another mode of expression. Public
opinion gathered in by the newspapers became a force before which
Government dared not stand. The "Chronicle," "Post," "Herald" and
"Times" came into existence, philosophers like Coleridge, and statesmen
like Canning using their columns and compelling reforms.

[Sidenote: Impeachment of Warren Hastings, 1788.]

The impeachment of Warren Hastings, conducted by Burke, Sheridan, and
Fox, led to such an exposure of the cruelty and corruption of the East
India Company, that the gigantic monopoly was broken up. A "Board of
Control" was created for the administration of Indian affairs, thus
absorbing it into the general system of English Government (1784).

James Watt had introduced (in 1769) steam into the life of England,
with consequences dire at first, and fraught with such tremendous
results later, changing all the industrial conditions of England and of
the world.

In 1789 England witnessed that terrific outburst of human passions in
France, which culminated in the death of a King and a Queen. An
appalling sight which made Republicanism seem odious, even to so
exalted and just a soul as Burke, who denounced it with words of
thrilling eloquence. Then came Napoleon Bonaparte, and his swift ascent
to imperial power, followed by his audacious conquest almost of Europe,
until Arthur Wellesley, the Duke of Wellington, led the allied army at
Waterloo, and Napoleon's sun went down.

In 1812 the United States for a second time declared war against
England. That country had claimed the right to search for British-born
seamen upon American ships, in order to impress them into her own
service and recruit her Navy. The "right of search" was denied, and the
British forces landed in Maryland, burned the Capitol and Congressional
Library at Washington, but met their "Waterloo" at New Orleans, where,
under General Andrew Jackson, they were defeated, and the "right of
search" is heard of no more.

Long before this time George III. had been a prey to blindness,
deafness, and insanity, and in 1820 his death came as a welcome event.
Had he not been blind, deaf, and insane, in 1775, England might not
have lost her fairest possession.

The weight of the enormous debt incurred by the long wars fell most
heavily upon the poor. One-half of their earnings went to the Crown.
The poor man lived under a taxed roof, wore taxed clothing, ate taxed
food from taxed dishes, and looked at the light of day through taxed
window-glass. Nothing was free but the ocean.

But there must not be cheap bread, for that meant reduced rents. The
farmer was "protected" by having the price of corn kept artificially
above a certain point, and further "protected" by a prohibitory tax
upon foreign corn, all in order that the landlord might collect
undiminished rentals from his farm lands. But, alas! there was no
"protection" from starvation. Is it strange that gaunt famine was a
frequent visitor in the land?--But men must starve in silence.--To beg
was crime.

   "Alas, that bread should be so dear,
    And flesh and blood so cheap!"

Children six years old worked fourteen and fifteen hours daily in mines
and factories, beaten by overseers to keep them awake over their tasks;
while others five and six years old, driven by blows, crawled with
their brooms into narrow soot-clogged chimneys, and sometimes getting
wedged in narrow flues, were mercifully suffocated and translated to a
kinder world.

A ruinous craving was created for stimulants, which took the place of
insufficient food, and in these stunted, pallid, emaciated beings a
foundation was laid for an enfeebled and debased population, which
would sorely tax the wisdom of statesmanship in the future.

If such was the condition of the honest working poor, what was that of
the criminal? It is difficult now to comprehend the ferocity of laws
which made _235 offenses--punishable with death_,--most of which
we should now call misdemeanors. But perhaps death was better than the
prisons, which were the abode of vermin, disease and filth unspeakable.
Jailers asked for no pay, but depended upon the money they could wring
from the wretched beings in their charge for food and small
alleviations to their misery. In 1773 John Howard commenced his work in
the prisons, and the idea was first conceived that the object of
punishment should be not to degrade sin-sick humanity, but to reform
it.

Far above this deep dark undercurrent, there was a bright, shining
surface. Johnson had made his ponderous contribution to letters.
Francis Barney had surprised the world with "Evelina;" Horace Walpole,
(son of Sir Robert) was dropping witty epigrams from his pen; Sheridan,
Goldsmith, Cowper, Burns, Southey, Coleridge, Wordsworth, in tones both
grave and gay, were making sweet music; while Scott, Byron, Shelley
added strains rich and melodious.

[Sidenote: First English Railway, 1830.]

As all this was passing, George Stephenson was pondering over a daring
project. Fulton had completed his invention in 1807, and in 1819 the
first steamship had crossed the Atlantic. If engines could be made to
plough through the water, why might they not also be made to walk the
earth? It was thought an audacious experiment when he put this iron
fire-devouring monster on wheels, to draw loaded cars. Not until 1830
was his plan realized, when his new locomotive--"The Rocket"--drew the
first railway train from Liverpool to Manchester, the Duke of
Wellington venturing his life on the trial trip.

In the year 1782 Ireland was permitted to have its own Parliament; but
owing to a treasonable correspondence with France, a few years later,
she was deprived of this legislative independence, and in 1801, after a
prolonged struggle, was reunited to Great Britain, and thenceforth sent
her representatives to the British Parliament.

[Sidenote: Oppression of Roman Catholics. Daniel O'Connell.]

The laws against Roman Catholics which had been enacted as measures of
self-defence from the Stuarts, now that there was no longer a necessity
for them had become an oppression, which bore with special weight upon
Catholic Ireland. By the oath of "Supremacy," and by the declarations
against transubstantiation, intercession of Saints, etc., etc., the
Catholics were shut out from all share in a Government which they were
taxed to support. Such an obvious injustice should not have needed a
powerful pleader; but it found one in Daniel O'Connell, who by constant
agitation and fiery eloquence created such a public sentiment, that the
Ministry, headed by the Duke of Wellington, aided by Sir Robert Peel in
the House, carried through a measure in 1828 which opened Parliament to
Catholics, and also gave them free access to all places of trust, Civil
or Military,--excepting that of Regent,--Lord Chancellor--and Lord
Lieutenant of Ireland.

[Sidenote: George IV., 1820-1830.]

There is nothing to record of George IV. except the irregularities of
his private life, over which we need not linger. He was a dissolute
spendthrift. His illegal marriage with Mrs. Fitzherbert, and his legal
marriage with Caroline of Brunswick from whom he quickly freed himself,
are the chief events in his history.

His charming young daughter, the Princess Charlotte, had died in 1817,
soon after her marriage with Prince Leopold of Saxe-Coburg. She had
been adored as the future Queen, but upon the death of George IV. in
1830, the Crown passed to his sailor brother William.

[Sidenote: William IV., 1830-1837.]

William IV. was sixty-five when he came to the throne. He was not a
courtier in his manners, nor much of a fine gentleman in his tastes.
But his plain, rough sincerity was not unacceptable, and his immediate
espousal of the Reform Act, then pending, won him popularity at once.

The efficiency and integrity of the House of Commons had long been
impaired by an effete system of representation, which had been
unchanged for 500 years. Boroughs were represented which had long
disappeared from the face of the earth. One had for years been covered
by the sea! Another existed as a fragment of a wall in a gentleman's
park, while towns like Manchester, Leeds, Birmingham, and nineteen
other large and prosperous places, had no representation whatever.
These "rotten boroughs" as they were called, were usually in the hands
of wealthy landowners; one great Peer literally carrying eleven
boroughs in his pocket, so that eleven members went to the House of
Commons at his dictation.--It would seem that a reform so obviously
needed should have been easy to accomplish. But the House of Lords
clung to the old system as if the life of the Kingdom depended upon it.
And when the measure was finally carried the good old Duke of
Wellington said sadly, "We must hope for the best; but the most
sanguine cannot believe we shall ever again be as prosperous."

By this Act 56 boroughs were disfranchised, and 43 new ones, with 30
county constituencies, were created.

[Sidenote: "Reform Bill, 1832"]

It was in the contest over this Reform Bill that the Tories took the
name of "Conservatives" and their opponents "Liberals." Its passage
marks a most important transition in England. The workingman was by it
enfranchised, and the House of Commons, which had hitherto represented
_property_, thenceforth represented _manhood_.

Nor were political reforms the only ones. Human pity awoke from its
lethargy. The penalties for wrongdoing became less brutal, the prisons
less terrible. No longer did gaping crowds watch shivering wretches
brought out of the jails every Monday morning, in batches of twenty and
thirty, to be hung for pilfering or something even less. Little
children were lifted out of the mines and factories and chimneys and
placed in schools, which also began to be created for the poor.
Numberless ways were devised for making life less miserable for the
unfortunate, and for improving the social conditions of toiling men and
women.

[Sidenote: Slaves Emancipated, 1833.]

While white slavery in the collieries and factories was thus mitigated,
Wilberforce removed the stain of negro slavery from England in securing
the passage of a Bill which, while compensating the owners (who
received 20,000,000 pounds), set 800,000 human beings free (1833).




CHAPTER XIII.


[Sidenote: Accession of Victoria, 1837.]

William IV. died at Windsor Castle, and at 5 o'clock on the morning of
June 2oth, 1837 (just 58 years from the day this is written), a young
girl of eighteen was awakened to be told she was Queen of Great Britain
and Ireland. Victoria was the only child of Edward, Duke of Kent,
brother of William IV. Her marriage in 1840 with her cousin, Prince
Albert of Saxe-Coburg, was one of deep affection, and secured for her a
wise and prudent counsellor.

[Sidenote: Famine in Ireland, 1846.]

On account of the high price of corn, Ireland had for years subsisted
entirely upon potatoes. The failure of this crop for several successive
seasons, in 1846 produced a famine of such appalling dimensions that
the old and the new world came to the rescue of the starving people.
Parliament voted 10,000,000 pounds for food. But before relief could
reach them, two millions, one-fourth of the population of Ireland, had
perished. The anti-corn measures, championed by Richard Cobden and
John Bright, which had been bitterly opposed by the Tories under the
leadership of Disraeli, were thus reinforced by unexpected argument;
foreign breadstuffs were permitted free access and free trade was
accepted as the policy of England.

Nicholas, the Czar of Russia, was, after the fashion of his
predecessors (and his successors), always waiting for the right moment
to sweep down upon Constantinople. England had become only a land of
shopkeepers, France was absorbed with her new Empire, and with trying
on her fresh imperial trappings. The time seemed favorable for a move.
The pious soul of Nicholas was suddenly stirred by certain restrictions
laid by the Sultan upon the Christians in Palestine. He demanded that
he be made the Protector of Christianity in the Turkish Empire, by an
arrangement which would in fact transfer the Sovereignty from
Constantinople to St. Petersburg.

That mass of Oriental corruption known as the Ottoman Empire, held
together by no vital forces, was ready to fall into ruin at one
vigorous touch. It was an anachronism in modern Europe, where its
cruelty was only limited by its weakness. That such an odious,
treacherous despotism should so strongly appeal to the sympathies of
England that she was willing to enter upon a life-and-death struggle
for its maintenance, let those believe who can.--Her rushing to the
defence of Turkey, was about as sincere as Russia's interest in the
Christians in Palestine.

The simple truth beneath all these diplomatic subterfuges was of course
that Russia wanted Constantinople, and England would at any cost
prevent her getting it. The keys to the East must, in any event, not
belong to Russia, her only rival in Asia.

France had no Eastern Empire to protect, so her participation in the
struggle is at first not so easy to comprehend, until we reflect that
she had an ambitious and _parvenu_ Emperor. To have Europe see him
in confidential alliance with England, was alone worth a war; while a
vigorous foreign policy would help to divert attention from the recent
treacheries by which he had reached a throne.

[Sidenote: War with Russia, 1854.]

Such were some of the hidden springs of action which in 1854 brought
about the Crimean War,--one of the most deadly and destructive of
modern times. Two great Christian kingdoms had rushed to the defence of
the worst Government ever known, and the best blood in England was
being poured into Turkish soil.

The Russians soon found that the English were no less skilled as
fighters, than as shopkeepers. They were victorious from the very
first, even when the numbers were ill-matched. But one immortal deed of
valor must have made her tremble before the spirit it revealed.

Six hundred cavalrymen, in obedience to an order which all knew was a
blunder, dashed into a valley lined with cannon, and charged an army of
30,000 men!

   "Was there a man dismayed?
    Not though the soldiers knew
    Some one had blundered.
    Theirs not to reason why,
    Theirs but to do,--and die,
    As into the Valley of Death
    Rode the six hundred."

The horrible blunder at Balaklava was not the only one. One incapable
general was followed by another, and routine and red-tape were more
deadly than Russian shot and shell.

Food and supplies beyond their utmost power of consumption, were
hurried to the army by grateful England. Thousands of tons of wood for
huts, shiploads of clothing and profuse provision for health and
comfort, reached Balaklava.

While the tall masts of the ships bearing these treasures were visible
from the heights of Sebastopol, men there were perishing for lack of
food, fuel and clothing. In rags, almost barefoot, half-fed, often
without fuel even to cook their food, in that terrible winter on the
heights, whole regiments of heroes became extinct, because there was
not sufficient administrative ability to convey the supplies to a
perishing army!

So wretched was the hospital service, that to be sent there meant
death. Gangrene carried off four out of five. Men were dying at a rate
which would have extinguished the entire army in a year and a half. It
was Florence Nightingale who redeemed this national disgrace, and
brought order, care and healing into the camps.

When England recalls with pride the valor and the victories in the
Crimea, let her remember it was the _manhood in the ranks_ which
achieved it. When all was over, war had slain its thousands,--but
official incapacity its tens of thousands!

It was a costly victory: Russia was humiliated, was even shut out from
the waters of her own Black Sea, where she had hitherto been supreme.
To two million Turks was preserved the privilege of oppressing eight
million Christians; and for this,--twenty thousand British youth had
perished. But--the way to India was unobstructed!

England's career of conquest in India was not altogether of her own
seeking. As a neighboring province committed outrages upon its British
neighbors, it became necessary in self-defence to punish it; and such
punishment, invariably led to its subjugation. In this way one province
after another was subdued, until finally in the absorption of the
Kingdom of Oude (1856) the natural boundary of the Himalaya Mountains
had been reached, and the conquest was complete. The little trading
company of British merchants had become an Empire, vast and rich beyond
the wildest dreams of romance.

The British rule was upon the whole beneficent. The condition of the
people was improved, and there was little dissatisfaction except among
the deposed native princes, who were naturally filled with hate and
bitterness. The large army required to hold such an amount of
territory, was to a great extent recruited from the native population,
the Sepoys, as they were called, making good soldiers.

[Sidenote: Sepoy  Rebellion, 1857-1858.]

In 1857 the King of the Oude and some of the native princes cunningly
devised a plan of undermining the British by means of their Sepoys, and
circumstances afforded a singular opportunity for carrying out their
design.

A new rifle had been adopted, which required a greased cartridge, for
which animal grease was used. The Sepoys were told this was a deep-laid
plot to overthrow their native religions. The Mussulman was to be
eternally lost by defiling his lips with the fat of swine, and the
Hindu, by the indignity offered to the venerated Cow. These English had
tried to ruin them not alone in this world, but in the next.

[Sidenote: Massacre at Cawnpore.]

Thrilled with horror, terror-stricken, the dusky soldiers were
converted into demons. Mutinies arose simultaneously at twenty-two
stations; not only officers, but Europeans, were slaughtered without
mercy. At Cawnpore was the crowning horror. After a siege of many days
the garrison capitulated to Nana Sahib and his Sepoys. The officers
were shot, and their wives, daughters, sisters and babes, 206 in
number, were shut up in a large apartment which had been used by the
ladies for a ballroom.

After eighteen days of captivity, the horrors of which will never be
known, five men with sabres, in the twilight, were seen to enter the
room and close the door. There were wild cries and shrieks and groans.
Three times a hacked and a blunted sabre was passed out of a window in
exchange for a sharper one. Finally the groans and moans gradually
ceased and all was still. The next morning a mass of mutilated remains
were thrown into an empty well.

Two days later the avenger came in the person of General Havelock. The
Sepoys were conquered and a policy of merciless retribution followed.

In that well at Cawnpore was forever buried sympathy for the mutinous
Indian. When we recall that, we can even hear with calmness of Sepoys
fired from the cannon's mouth. From that moment it was the cause of men
in conflict with demons, civilization in deadly struggle with cruel,
treacherous barbarism. We cannot advocate meeting atrocity with
atrocity, nor can we forget that it was a Christian nation fighting
with one debased and infidel. But terrible surgery is sometimes needed
to extirpate disease.

Greed for territory, and wrong, and injustice may have mingled with the
acquisition of an Indian Empire, but posterity will see only a majestic
uplifting of almost a quarter of the human family from debased
barbarism, to a Christian civilization; and all through the
instrumentality of a little band of trading settlers from a small far-
off island in the northwest of Europe.




CHAPTER XIV.


[Sidenote: Atlantic Cable, 1858.]

But there were other things besides famine and wars taking place in the
Kingdom of the young Queen. A greater and a subtler force than steam
had entered into the life of the people. A miracle had happened in
1858, when an electric wire threaded its way across the Atlantic, and
two continents conversed as friends sitting hand in hand.

[Sidenote: Daguerre's Discovery, 1839.]

Another miracle had then just been achieved in the discovery of certain
chemical conditions, by which scenes and objects would imprint
themselves in minutest detail upon a prepared surface. A sort of magic
seemed to have entered into life, quickening and intensifying all its
processes. Enlarged knowledge opened up new theories of disease and
created a new Art of healing. Surgery, with its unspeakable anguish,
was rendered painless by anaesthetics. Mechanical invention was so
stimulated that all the processes of labor were quickened and improved.

[Sidenote: First World's Fair, 1851.]

In 1851 the Prince Consort conceived the idea of a great Exposition,
which should under one roof gather all the fruits of this marvellous
advance, and Sydenham Palace, a gigantic structure of glass and iron,
was erected.

In literature, Tennyson was preserving English valor in immortal verse.
Thackeray and Dickens, in prose as immortal, were picturing the social
lights and shadows of the Victorian Age.

[Sidenote: Death of Prince Albert, 1861.]

In 1861 a crushing blow fell upon the Queen in the death of the Prince
Consort. America treasures kindly memory of Prince Albert, on account
of his outspoken friendship in the hour of her need. During the war of
the Rebellion, while the fate of our country seemed hanging in the
balance, we had few friends in England, where people seemed to look
with satisfaction upon our probable dismemberment.

We are not likely to forget the three shining exceptions:--Prince
Albert--John Bright--and John Stuart Mill.

[Sidenote: Suez Canal.]

It was while that astute diplomatist, Disraeli (Lord Beaconsfield) was
Prime Minister, that French money, skill and labor opened up the
waterway between the Mediterranean and the Red Sea. It would never do
to have France command such a strategic point on the way to the East.
England was alert. She lost not a moment. The impecunious Khedive was
offered by telegraph $20,000,000 for his interest in the Suez Canal,
nearly one-half of the whole capital stock. The offer was accepted with
no less alacrity than it was made. So with the Arabian Port of Aden,
which she already possessed, and with a strong enough financial grasp
upon impoverished Egypt to secure the right of way, should she need it,
England had made the Canal which France dug, practically her own.

[Sidenote: Victoria Crowned Empress of India, 1876]

Lord Beaconsfield had crowned his dramatic and picturesque Ministerial
career by placing a new diadem on the head of the widowed Queen, who
was now Empress of India.  His successor, William Ewart Gladstone, the
great leader of the Liberal party, was content with a less showy field.
He had in 1869 relieved Ireland from the unjust burden of supporting a
Church the tenets of which she considered blasphemous; and one which
her own, the Roman Catholic, had for three centuries been trying to
overthrow. We cannot wonder that the memory of a tyranny so odious is
not easily effaced; nor that there is less gratitude for its removal,
than bitterness that it should so long have been.

[Sidenote: Disestablishment of Irish Branch of Church of England, 1869.]

The disestablishment of the English Church in Ireland was one of the
most righteous acts of this reign. Whether the great English Statesman
will be equally successful in securing Home Rule for that unhappy land,
upon which he has staked the final effort of his life, remains to be
seen.

The Irish question is such a tangled web of wrong and injustice
complicated by folly and outrage, that the wisest and best-intentioned
statesmanship is baffled. Whether the conditions would be improved by
giving them their own Parliament, can only be determined by experiment;
and that experiment England is not yet willing to try.

History affords few spectacles of its kind more impressive than Mr.
Gladstone at 86, with the ardor and energy of youth, battling for a
measure he believes so vitally necessary to the Nation. It is a pity
that for Americans his greatness is tarnished and belief in the
infallibility of his judgment shaken, by the memory that he upheld the
attack upon our National life in 1860; and that he, seemingly without
regret, prophesied our downfall.

The work of Parliamentary reform commenced in 1832 has moved steadily
on through this reign. By successive acts the franchise has extended
farther and farther, until a final limit is almost reached; and side by
side with this has been a corresponding increase in educational
facilities, "because," as a Peer cynically remarked, "we must educate
our Masters!"

So many reforms have been accomplished during this reign, the time
seems not far distant when there will be little more for Liberals to
urge, or for Conservatives and the House of Lords to obstruct. Monarchy
is absolutely shorn of its dangers. The House of Commons, which is the
actual ruling power of the Kingdom, is only the expression of the
popular will.

We are accustomed to regard American freedom as the one supreme type.
But it is not. The popular will in England reaches the springs of
Government more freely, more swiftly, and more imperiously, than it
does in Republican America. It comes as a stern mandate, which must be
obeyed on the instant. The Queen of England has less power than the
President of the United States. He can form a definite policy, select
his own Ministry to carry it out, and to some extent have his own way
for four years, whether the people like it or not. The Queen cannot do
this for a day. Her Ministry cannot stand an hour, with a policy
disapproved by the Commons. Not since Anne has a sovereign refused
signature to an Act of Parliament. The Georges, and William IV.,
continued to exercise the power of dismissing Ministers at their
pleasure. But since Victoria, an unwritten law forbids it, and with
this vanishes the last _remnant of a personal Government_. The end
long sought is attained.

The history of no other people affords such an illustration of a
steadily progressive national development from seed to blossom,
compelled by one persistent force. Freedom in England has not been
wrought by cataclysm as in France, but has unfolded like a plant from a
life within; impeded and arrested sometimes, but patiently biding its
time, and then steadily and irresistibly pressing outward; one leaf
after another freeing itself from the detaining force. Only a few more
remain to be unclosed, and we shall behold the consummate flower of
fourteen centuries;--centuries in which the most practical nation in
the world has steadily pursued an _ideal_! The ideal of individual
freedom subordinated only to the good of the whole.

The triumph of England has been the triumph not of genius, nor of
intellect, but of _character_. It is those cross-threads of
stubborn homely traits, the tenacity of purpose, the reluctance to
change, the adherence to habit, usage and tradition, which have
toughened the fabric almost to indestructibility. These traits are
illustrated in the persistence of the hereditary principle in the royal
line. We look in vain for another such instance. The blood of Cerdic,
the first Saxon "Ealdorman" (495), flows in the veins of Victoria. She
is 38th remove from Egbert, first Saxon King of consolidated England
(802), 26th from William the Conqueror (1066), and 9th in descent from
that picturesque and lovely criminal, Mary Stuart (1587). There have
been wars, and foreign invasions,--a Danish and a Norman conquest, the
overturning of dynasties, and Revolutions, and a "Protectorate," and
yet--there sits upon the throne to-day a Queen descended by unbroken
line from Cerdic the Saxon!

Queen Victoria is undoubtedly indebted to the wise counsel and guidance
of the Prince Consort in the early decades of her reign. Not one act of
folly has marred its even current. She has held up to the nation a high
ideal of wifehood, motherhood, and of domestic virtue. None of her
predecessors have bound their people to them with ties so human, her
griefs and experiences moving them as their own. We think of her more
as an exalted type of Woman, than as Sovereign of the most marvellous
Empire the World ever saw;--its area three times that of Europe,
representing every zone, all products, and every race!

How long England will be capable of sending out a vital current
sufficient to nourish such distant extremities none can tell; or
whether the far-off Colonies of Australia, Canada, and New Zealand will
increase their independent life, until they become detached
Sovereignties like the United States. If that day ever comes, like the
Mother of a generation of grown children, with independent homes of
their own,--England will sit with folded hands, her life-work done.

Let no American forget, that England before the Restoration is as much
our England as theirs. That the memories of Crecy, of Blenheim, of
Marston Moor and Naseby, are our great inheritance too. That Chaucer,
Milton, Shakespeare, belong to the humblest American as much as to
Victoria.

The branch has grown far from the parent tree since the 17th Century;
and the England of Tennyson and Herbert Spencer is only a very distant
cousin. She has not always treated us well, has not been chary of
criticism, nor prodigal of praise, nor did she sympathize with us in
the day of our peril and misfortune. But for all that--sharing the
same great heritage of race and of literature, speaking in the same
language the same thoughts and impulses, there must always exist
between us a tie, such as can bind us to no other nation upon the
earth.







End of Project Gutenberg's The Evolution of an Empire, by Mary Parmele



Produced by an anonymous volunteer.






THE EVIL SHEPHERD BY E. PHILIPS OPPENHEIM






CHAPTER I


Francis Ledsam, alert, well-satisfied with himself and the world,
the echo of a little buzz of congratulations still in his ears,
paused on the steps of the modern Temple of Justice to light a
cigarette before calling for a taxi to take him to his club.
Visions of a whisky and soda--his throat was a little parched
--and a rubber of easy-going bridge at his favourite table, were
already before his eyes.  A woman who had followed him from the
Court touched him on the shoulder.

"Can I speak to you for a moment, Mr. Ledsam?"

The barrister frowned slightly as he swung around to confront his
questioner.  It was such a familiar form of address.

"What do you want?" he asked, a little curtly.

"A few minutes' conversation with you," was the calm reply.  "The
matter is important."

The woman's tone and manner, notwithstanding her plain,
inconspicuous clothes, commanded attention.  Francis Ledsam was a
little puzzled.  Small things meant much to him in life, and he
had been looking forward almost with the zest of a schoolboy to
that hour of relaxation at his club.  He was impatient of even a
brief delay, a sentiment which he tried to express in his
response.

"What do you want to speak to me about?" he repeated bluntly.  "I
shall be in my rooms in the Temple to-morrow morning, any time
after eleven."

"It is necessary for me to speak to you now," she insisted.
"There is a tea-shop across the way.  Please accompany me there."

Ledsam, a little surprised at the coolness of her request,
subjected his accoster to a closer scrutiny.  As he did so, his
irritation diminished.  He shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"If you really have business with me," he said, "I will give you
a few minutes."

They crossed the street together, the woman self-possessed,
negative, wholly without the embarrassment of one performing an
unusual action.  Her companion felt the awakening of curiosity.
Zealously though she had, to all appearance, endeavoured to
conceal the fact, she was without a doubt personable.  Her voice
and manner lacked nothing of refinement.  Yet her attraction to
Francis Ledsam, who, although a perfectly normal human being, was
no seeker after promiscuous adventures, did not lie in these
externals.  As a barrister whose success at the criminal bar had
been phenomenal, he had attained to a certain knowledge of human
nature.  He was able, at any rate, to realise that this woman was
no imposter.  He knew that she had vital things to say.

They passed into the tea-shop and found an empty corner.  Ledsam
hung up his hat and gave an order.  The woman slowly began to
remove her gloves.  When she pushed back her veil, her vis-a-vis
received almost a shock.  She was quite as good-looking as he had
imagined, but she was far younger--she was indeed little more
than a girl.  Her eyes were of a deep shade of hazel brown, her
eyebrows were delicately marked, her features and poise
admirable.  Yet her skin was entirely colourless.  She was as
pale as one whose eyes have been closed in death.  Her lips,
although in no way highly coloured, were like streaks of scarlet
blossom upon a marble image.  The contrast between her appearance
and that of her companion was curiously marked.  Francis Ledsam
conformed in no way to the accepted physical type of his
profession.  He was over six feet in height, broad-shouldered and
powerfully made.  His features were cast in a large mould, he was
of fair, almost sandy complexion, even his mouth was more
humourous than incisive.  His eyes alone, grey and exceedingly
magnetic, suggested the gifts which without a doubt lay behind
his massive forehead.

"I am anxious to avoid any possible mistake," she began.  "Your
name is Francis Ledsam?"

"It is," he admitted.

"You are the very successful criminal barrister," she continued,
"who has just been paid an extravagant fee to defend Oliver
Hilditch."

"I might take exception to the term 'extravagant'," Ledsam
observed drily.  "Otherwise, your information appears to be
singularly correct.  I do not know whether you have heard the
verdict.  If not, you may be interested to know that I succeeded
in obtaining the man's acquittal."

"I know that you did," the woman replied.  "I was in the Court
when the verdict was brought in.  It has since occurred to me
that I should like you to understand exactly what you have done,
the responsibility you have incurred."

Ledsam raised his eyebrows.

"Responsibility?" he repeated.  "What I have done is simple
enough.  I have earned a very large fee and won my case."

"You have secured the acquittal of Oliver Hilditch," she
persisted.  "He is by this time a free man.  Now I am going to
speak to you of that responsibility.  I am going to tell you a
little about the man who owes his freedom to your eloquence."

It was exactly twenty minutes after their entrance into the
teashop when the woman finished her monologue.  She began to draw
on her gloves again.  Before them were two untasted cups of tea
and an untouched plate of bread and butter.  From a corner of the
room the waitress was watching them curiously.

"Good God!" Francis Ledsam exclaimed at last, suddenly realising
his whereabouts.  "Do you mean to affirm solemnly that what you
have been telling me is the truth?"

The woman continued to button her gloves.  "It is the truth," she
said.

Ledsam sat up and looked around him.  He was a little dazed.  He
had almost the feeling of a man recovering from the influence of
some anaesthetic.  Before his eyes were still passing visions of
terrible deeds, of naked, ugly passion, of man's unscrupulous
savagery.  During those few minutes he had been transported to
New York and Paris, London and Rome.  Crimes had been spoken of
which made the murder for which Oliver Hilditch had just been
tried seem like a trifling indiscretion.  Hard though his
mentality, sternly matter-of-fact as was his outlook, he was
still unable to fully believe in himself, his surroundings, or in
this woman who had just dropped a veil over her ashen cheeks.
Reason persisted in asserting itself.

"But if you knew all this," he demanded, "why on earth didn't you
come forward and give evidence?"

"Because," she answered calmly, as she rose to her feet, "my
evidence would not have been admissible.  I am Oliver Hilditch's
wife."




CHAPTER II


Francis Ledsam arrived at his club, the Sheridan, an hour later
than he had anticipated.  He nodded to the veteran hall-porter,
hung up his hat and stick, and climbed the great staircase to the
card-room without any distinct recollection of performing any of
these simple and reasonable actions.  In the cardroom he
exchanged a few greetings with friends, accepted without comment
or without the slightest tinge of gratification a little chorus
of chafing congratulations upon his latest triumph, and left the
room without any inclination to play, although there was a vacant
place at his favourite table.  From sheer purposelessness he
wandered back again into the hall, and here came his first gleam
of returning sensation.  He came face to face with his most
intimate friend, Andrew Wilmore.  The latter, who had just hung
up his coat and hat, greeted him with a growl of welcome.

"So you've brought it off again, Francis!"

"Touch and go," the barrister remarked.  "I managed to squeak
home."

Wilmore laid his hand upon his friend's shoulder and led the way
towards two easy-chairs in the lounge.

"I tell you what it is, old chap," he confided, "you'll be making
yourself unpopular before long.  Another criminal at large,
thanks to that glib tongue and subtle brain of yours.  The crooks
of London will present you with a testimonial when you're made a
judge."

"So you think that Oliver Hilditch was guilty, then?" Francis
asked curiously.

"My dear fellow, how do I know or care?" was the indifferent
reply.  "I shouldn't have thought that there had been any doubt
about it.  You probably know, anyway."

"That's just what I didn't when I got up to make my speech,"
Francis assured his friend emphatically.  "The fellow was given
an opportunity of making a clean breast of it, of course--Wensley,
his lawyer, advised him to, in fact--but the story he told me
was precisely the story he told at the inquest."

They were established now in their easy-chairs, and Wilmore
summoned a waiter.

"Two large whiskies and sodas," he ordered.  "Francis," he went
on, studying his companion intently, "what's the matter with you?
You don't look as though your few days in the country last week
had done you any good."

Francis glanced around as though to be sure that they were alone.

"I was all right when I came up, Andrew," he muttered.  "This
case has upset me."

"Upset you?  But why the dickens should it?" the other demanded,
in a puzzled tone.  "It was quite an ordinary case, in its way,
and you won it."

"I won it," Francis admitted.

"Your defence was the most ingenious thing I ever heard."

"Mostly suggested, now I come to think of it," the barrister
remarked grimly, "by the prisoner himself."

"But why are you upset about it, anyway?" Wilmore persisted.

Francis rose to his feet, shook himself, and with his elbow
resting upon the mantelpiece leaned down towards his friend.  He
could not rid himself altogether of this sense of unreality.  He
had the feeling that he had passed through one of the great
crises of his life.

"I'll tell you, Andrew.  You're about the only man in the world I
could tell.  I've gone crazy."

"I thought you looked as though you'd been seeing spooks,"
Wilmore murmured sympathetically.

"I have seen a spook," Francis rejoined, with almost passionate
seriousness, "a spook who lifted an invisible curtain with
invisible fingers, and pointed to such a drama of horrors as De
Quincey, Poe and Sue combined could never have imagined.  Oliver
Hilditch was guilty, Andrew.  He murdered the man Jordan--murdered
him in cold blood."

"I'm not surprised to hear that," was the somewhat puzzled reply.

"He was guilty, Andrew, not only of the murder of this man, his
partner, but of innumerable other crimes and brutalities,"
Francis went on.  "He is a fiend in human form, if ever there was
one, and I have set him loose once more to prey upon Society.  I
am morally responsible for his next robbery, his next murder, the
continued purgatory of those forced to associate with him."

"You're dotty, Francis," his friend declared shortly.

"I told you I was crazy," was the desperate reply.  "So would you
be if you'd sat opposite that woman for half-an-hour, and heard
her story."

"What woman?" Wilmore demanded, leaning forward in his chair and
gazing at his friend with increasing uneasiness.

"A woman who met me outside the Court and told me the story of
Oliver Hilditch's life."

"A stranger?"

"A complete stranger to me.  It transpired that she was his
wife."

Wilmore lit a cigarette.

"Believe her?"

"There are times when one doesn't believe or disbelieve," Francis
answered.  "One knows."

Wilmore nodded.

"All the same, you're crazy," he declared.  "Even if you did save
the fellow from the gallows, you were only doing your job, doing
your duty to the best of poor ability.  You had no reason to
believe him guilty."

"That's just as it happened," Francis pointed out.  "I really
didn't care at the time whether he was or not.  I had to proceed
on the assumption that he was not, of course, but on the other
hand I should have fought just as hard for him if I had known him
to be guilty."

"And you wouldn't now--to-morrow, say?"

"Never again."

"Because of that woman's story?"

"Because of the woman."

There was a short silence.  Then Wilmore asked a very obvious
question.

"What sort of a person was she?"

Francis Ledsam was several moments before he replied.  The
question was one which he had been expecting, one which he had
already asked himself many times, yet he was unprepared with any
definite reply.

"I wish I could answer you, Andrew," his friend confessed.  "As a
matter of fact, I can't.  I can only speak of the impression she
left upon me, and you are about the only person breathing to whom
I could speak of that."

Wilmore nodded sympathetically.  He knew that, man of the world
though Francis Ledsam appeared, he was nevertheless a highly
imaginative person, something of an idealist as regards women,
unwilling as a rule to discuss them, keeping them, in a general
way, outside his daily life.

"Go ahead, old fellow," he invited.  "You know I understand."

"She left the impression upon me," Francis continued quietly, "of
a woman who had ceased to live.  She was young, she was beautiful,
she had all the gifts--culture, poise and breeding--but she had
ceased to live.  We sat with a marble table between us, and a
few feet of oil-covered floor.  Those few feet, Andrew, were like
an impassable gulf.  She spoke from the shores of another world.
I listened and answered, spoke and listened again.  And when she
told her story, she went.  I can't shake off the effect she had
upon me, Andrew.  I feel as though I had taken a step to the
right or to the left over the edge of the world."

Andrew Wilmore studied his friend thoughtfully.

He was full of sympathy and understanding.  His one desire at
that moment was not to make a mistake.  He decided to leave
unasked the obvious question.

"I know," he said simply.  "Are you dining anywhere?"

"I thought of staying on here," was the indifferent reply.

"We won't do anything of the sort," Wilmore insisted.  "There's
scarcely a soul in to-night, and the place is too humpy for a man
who's been seeing spooks.  Get back to your rooms and change.
I'll wait here."

"What about you?"

"I have some clothes in my locker.  Don't be long.  And, by-the-bye,
which shall it be--Bohemia or Mayfair?  I'll telephone for a table.
London's so infernally full, these days."

Francis hesitated.

"I really don't care," he confessed.  "Now I think of it, I shall
be glad to get away from here, though.  I don't want any more
congratulations on saving Oliver Hilditch's life.  Let's go where
we are least likely to meet any one we know."

"Respectability and a starched shirt-front, then," Wilmore
decided.  "We'll go to Claridge's."




CHAPTER III


The two men occupied a table set against the wall, not far from
the entrance to the restaurant, and throughout the progress of
the earlier part of their meal were able to watch the constant
incoming stream of their fellow-guests.  They were, in their way,
an interesting contrast physically, neither of them good-looking
according to ordinary standards, but both with many pleasant
characteristics.  Andrew Wilmore, slight and dark, with sallow
cheeks and brown eyes, looked very much what he was--a moderately
successful journalist and writer of stories, a keen golfer, a
bachelor who preferred a pipe to cigars, and lived at Richmond
because he could not find a flat in London which he could afford,
large enough for his somewhat expansive habits.  Francis Ledsam
was of a sturdier type, with features perhaps better known to the
world owing to the constant activities of the cartoonist.  His
reputation during the last few years had carried him,
notwithstanding his comparative youth--he was only thirty-five
years of age--into the very front ranks of his profession, and
his income was one of which men spoke with bated breath.  He came
of a family of landed proprietors, whose younger sons for
generations had drifted always either to the Bar or the Law, and
his name was well known in the purlieus of Lincoln's Inn before
he himself had made it famous.  He was a persistent refuser of
invitations, and his acquaintances in the fashionable world were
comparatively few.  Yet every now and then he felt a mild
interest in the people whom his companion assiduously pointed out
to him.

"A fashionable restaurant, Francis, is rather like your Law
Courts--it levels people up," the latter remarked.  "Louis, the
head-waiter, is the judge, and the position allotted in the room
is the sentence.  I wonder who is going to have the little table
next but one to us.  Some favoured person, evidently."

Francis glanced in the direction indicated without curiosity.
The table in question was laid for two and was distinguished by a
wonderful cluster of red roses.

"Why is it," the novelist continued speculatively, "that,
whenever we take another man's wife out, we think it necessary to
order red roses?"

"And why is it," Francis queried, a little grimly, "that a dear
fellow like you, Andrew, believes it his duty to talk of trifles
for his pal's sake, when all the time he is thinking of something
else?  I know you're dying to talk about the Hilditch case,
aren't you?  Well, go ahead."

"I'm only interested in this last development," Wilmore
confessed.  "Of course, I read the newspaper reports.  To tell
you the truth, for a murder trial it seemed to me to rather lack
colour."

"It was a very simple and straightforward case," Francis said
slowly.  "Oliver Hilditch is the principal partner in an American
financial company which has recently opened offices in the West
End.  He seems to have arrived in England about two years ago, to
have taken a house in Hill Street, and to have spent a great deal
of money.  A month or so ago, his partner from New York arrived
in London, a man named Jordan of whom nothing was known.  It has
since transpired, however, that his journey to Europe was
undertaken because he was unable to obtain certain figures
relating to the business, from Hilditch.  Oliver Hilditch met him
at Southampton, travelled with him to London and found him a room
at the Savoy.  The next day, the whole of the time seems to have
been spent in the office, and it is certain, from the evidence of
the clerk, that some disagreement took place between the two men.
They dined together, however, apparently on good terms, at the
Cafe Royal, and parted in Regent Street soon after ten.  At
twelve o'clock, Jordan's body was picked up on the pavement in
Hill Street, within a few paces of Heidrich's door.  He had been
stabbed through the heart with some needle-like weapon, and was
quite dead."

"Was there any vital cause of quarrel between them?" Wilmore
enquired.

"Impossible to say," Francis replied.  "The financial position of
the company depends entirely upon the value of a large quantity
of speculative bonds, but as there was only one clerk employed,
it was impossible to get at any figures.  Hilditch declared that
Jordan had only a small share in the business, from which he had
drawn a considerable income for years, and that he had not the
slightest cause for complaint."

"What were Hilditch's movements that evening?" Wilmore asked.

"Not a soul seems to have seen him after he left Regent Street,"
was the somewhat puzzled answer.  "His own story was quite
straightforward and has never been contradicted.  He let himself
into his house with a latch-key after his return from the Cafe
Royal, drank a whisky and soda in the library, and went to bed
before half-past eleven.  The whole affair--"

Francis broke off abruptly in the middle of his sentence.  He sat
with his eyes fixed upon the door, silent and speechless.

"What in Heaven's name is the matter, old fellow?" Wilmore
demanded, gazing at his companion in blank amazement.

The latter pulled himself together with an effort.  The sight of
the two new arrivals talking to Louis on the threshold of the
restaurant, seemed for the moment to have drawn every scrap of
colour from his cheeks.  Nevertheless, his recovery was almost
instantaneous.

"If you want to know any more," he said calmly,  "you had better
go and ask him to tell you the whole story himself.  There he
is."

"And the woman with him?" Wilmore exclaimed under his breath.

"His wife!"




CHAPTER IV


To reach their table, the one concerning which Francis and his
friend had been speculating, the new arrivals, piloted by Louis,
had to pass within a few feet of the two men.  The woman, serene,
coldly beautiful, dressed like a Frenchwoman in unrelieved black,
with extraordinary attention to details, passed them by with a
careless glance and subsided into the chair which Louis was
holding.  Her companion, however, as he recognised Francis
hesitated.  His expression of somewhat austere gloom was
lightened.  A pleasant but tentative smile parted his lips.  He
ventured upon a salutation, half a nod, half a more formal bow, a
salutation which Francis instinctively returned.  Andrew Wilmore
looked on with curiosity.

"So that is Oliver Hilditch," he murmured.

"That is the man," Francis observed, "of whom last evening half
the people in this restaurant were probably asking themselves
whether or not he was guilty of murder.  To-night they will be
wondering what he is going to order for dinner.  It is a strange
world."

"Strange indeed," Wilmore assented.  "This afternoon he was in
the dock, with his fate in the balance--the condemned cell or a
favoured table at Claridge's.  And your meeting! One can imagine
him gripping your hands, with tears in his eyes, his voice broken
with emotion, sobbing out his thanks. And instead you exchange
polite bows.  I would not have missed this situation for anything."

"Tradesman!" Francis scoffed.  "One can guess already at the plot
of your next novel."

"He has courage," Wilmore declared.  "He has also a very
beautiful companion.  Were you serious, Francis, when you told me
that that was his wife?"

"She herself was my informant," was the quiet reply.

Wilmore was puzzled.

"But she passed you just now without even a glance of
recognition, and I thought you told me at the club this afternoon
that all your knowledge of his evil ways came from her.  Besides,
she looks at least twenty years younger than he does."

Francis, who had been watching his glass filled with champagne,
raised it to his lips and drank its contents steadily to the last
drop.

"I can only tell you what I know, Andrew," he said, as he set
down the empty glass.  "The woman who is with him now is the
woman who spoke to me outside the Old Bailey this afternoon.  We
went to a tea-shop together.  She told me the story of his
career.  I have never listened to so horrible a recital in my
life."

"And yet they are here together, dining tete-a-tete, on a night
when it must have needed more than ordinary courage for either of
them to have been seen in public at all," Wilmore pointed out.

"It is as astounding to me as it is to you," Francis confessed.
"From the way she spoke, I should never have dreamed that they
were living together."

"And from his appearance," Wilmore remarked, as he called the
waiter to bring some cigarettes, "I should never have imagined
that he was anything else save a high-principled, well-born,
straightforward sort of chap.  I never saw a less criminal type
of face."

They each in turn glanced at the subject of their discussion.
Oliver Hilditch's good-looks had been the subject of many press
comments during the last few days.  They were certainly
undeniable.  His face was a little lined but his hair was thick
and brown.  His features were regular, his forehead high and
thoughtful, his mouth a trifle thin but straight and shapely.
Francis gazed at him like a man entranced.  The hours seemed to
have slipped away.  He was back in the tea-shop, listening to the
woman who spoke of terrible things.  He felt again his shivering
abhorrence of her cold, clearly narrated story.  Again he shrank
from the horrors from which with merciless fingers she had
stripped the coverings.  He seemed to see once more the agony in
her white face, to hear the eternal pain aching and throbbing in
her monotonous tone.  He rose suddenly to his feet.

"Andrew," he begged, "tell the fellow to bring the bill outside.
We'll have our coffee and liqueurs there."

Wilmore acquiesced willingly enough, but even as they turned
towards the door Francis realised what was in store for him.
Oliver Hilditch had risen to his feet.  With a courteous little
gesture he intercepted the passer-by.  Francis found himself
standing side by side with the man for whose life he had pleaded
that afternoon, within a few feet of the woman whose terrible
story seemed to have poisoned the very atmosphere he breathed,
to have shown him a new horror in life, to have temporarily,
at any rate, undermined every joy and ambition he possessed.

"Mr. Ledsam," Hilditch said, speaking with quiet dignity, "I hope
that you will forgive the liberty I take in speaking to you here.
I looked for you the moment I was free this afternoon, but found
that you had left the Court.  I owe you my good name, probably my
life.  Thanks are poor things but they must be spoken."

"You owe me nothing at all," Francis replied, in a tone which
even he found harsh.  "I had a brief before me and a cause to
plead.  It was a chapter out of my daily work."

"That work can be well done or ill," the other reminded him
gently.  "In your case, my presence here proves how well it was
done.  I wish to present you to my wife, who shares my
gratitude."

Francis bowed to the woman, who now, at her husband's words,
raised her eyes.  For the first time he saw her smile.  It seemed
to him that the effort made her less beautiful.

"Your pleading was very wonderful, Mr. Ledsam," she said, a very
subtle note of mockery faintly apparent in her tone.  "We poor
mortals find it difficult to understand that with you all that
show of passionate earnestness is merely--what did you call it?
--a chapter in your day's work?  It is a great gift to be able
to argue from the brain and plead as though from the heart."

"We will not detain Mr. Ledsam," Oliver Hilditch interposed, a
little hastily.  "He perhaps does not care to be addressed in
public by a client who still carries with him the atmosphere of
the prison.  My wife and I wondered, Mr. Ledsam, whether you
would be good enough to dine with us one night.  I think I could
interest you by telling you more about my case than you know at
present, and it would give us a further opportunity, and a more
seemly one, for expressing our gratitude."

Francis had recovered himself by this time.  He was after all a
man of parts, and though he still had the feeling that he had
been through one of the most momentous days of his life, his
savoir faire was making its inevitable reappearance.  He knew
very well that the idea of that dinner would be horrible to him.
He also knew that he would willingly cancel every engagement he
had rather than miss it.

"You are very kind," he murmured.

"Are we fortunate enough to find you disengaged," Hilditch
suggested, "to-morrow evening?"

"I am quite free," was the ready response.

"That suits you, Margaret?" Hilditch asked, turning courteously
to his wife.

For a single moment her eyes were fixed upon those of her
prospective guest.  He read their message which pleaded for his
refusal, and he denied it.

"To-morrow evening will suit me as well as any other," she
acquiesced, after a brief pause.

"At eight o'clock, then--number 10 b, Hill Street," Hilditch
concluded.

Francis bowed and turned away with a murmured word of polite
assent.  Outside, he found Wilmore deep in the discussion of the
merits of various old brandies with an interested maitre d'hotel.

"Any choice, Francis?" his host enquired.

"None whatever," was the prompt reply, "only, for God's sake,
give me a double one quickly!"

The two men were on the point of departure when Oliver Hilditch
and his wife left the restaurant.  As though conscious that they
had become the subject of discussion, as indeed was the case,
thanks to the busy whispering of the various waiters, they passed
without lingering through the lounge into the entrance hall,
where Francis and Andrew Wilmore were already waiting for a
taxicab.  Almost as they appeared, a new arrival was ushered
through the main entrance, followed by porters carrying luggage.
He brushed past Francis so closely that the latter looked into
his face, half attracted and half repelled by the waxen-like
complexion, the piercing eyes, and the dignified carriage of the
man whose arrival seemed to be creating some stir in the hotel.
A reception clerk and a deputy manager had already hastened
forward.  The newcomer waved them back for a moment.  Bareheaded,
he had taken Margaret Hilditch's hands in his and raised them to
his lips.

"I came as quickly as I could," he said.  "There was the usual
delay, of course, at Marseilles, and the trains on were terrible.
So all has ended well."

Oliver Hilditch, standing by, remained speechless.  It seemed for
a moment as though his self-control were subjected to a severe
strain.

"I had the good fortune," he interposed, in a low tone, "to be
wonderfully defended.  Mr. Ledsam here--"

He glanced around.  Francis, with some idea of what was coming,
obeyed an imaginary summons from the head-porter, touched Andrew
Wilmore upon the shoulder, and hastened without a backward glance
through the swing-doors.  Wilmore turned up his coat-collar and
looked doubtfully up at the rain.

"I say, old chap," he protested, "you don't really mean to walk?"

Francis thrust his hand through his friend's arm and wheeled him
round into Davies Street.

"I don't care what the mischief we do, Andrew," he confided, "but
couldn't you see what was going to happen?  Oliver Hilditch was
going to introduce me as his preserver to the man who had just
arrived!"

"Are you afflicted with modesty, all of a sudden?" Wilmore
grumbled.

"No, remorse," was the terse reply.




CHAPTER V


Indecision had never been one of Francis Ledsam's faults, but
four times during the following day he wrote out a carefully
worded telegraphic message to Mrs. Oliver Hilditch, 10 b, Hill
Street, regretting his inability to dine that night, and each
time he destroyed it.  He carried the first message around
Richmond golf course with him, intending to dispatch his caddy
with it immediately on the conclusion of the round.  The fresh
air, however, and the concentration required by the game, seemed
to dispel the nervous apprehensions with which he had anticipated
his visit, and over an aperitif in the club bar he tore the
telegram into small pieces and found himself even able to derive
a certain half-fearful pleasure from the thought of meeting again
the woman who, together with her terrible story, had never for
one moment been out of his thoughts.  Andrew Wilmore, who had
observed his action, spoke of it as they settled down to lunch.

"So you are going to keep your engagement tonight, Francis?" he
observed.

The latter nodded.

"After all, why not?" he asked, a little defiantly.  "It ought to
be interesting."

"Well, there's nothing of the sordid criminal, at any rate, about
Oliver Hilditch," Wilmore declared.  "Neither, if one comes to
think of it, does his wife appear to be the prototype of
suffering virtue.  I wonder if you are wise to go, Francis?"

"Why not?" the man who had asked himself that question a dozen
times already, demanded.

"Because," Wilmore replied coolly, "underneath that steely
hardness of manner for which your profession is responsible, you
have a vein of sentiment, of chivalrous sentiment, I should say,
which some day or other is bound to get you into trouble.  The
woman is beautiful enough to turn any one's head.  As a matter of
fact, I believe that you are more than half in love with her
already."

Francis Ledsam sat where the sunlight fell upon his strong,
forceful face, shone, too, upon the table with its simple but
pleasant appointments, upon the tankard of beer by his side, upon
the plate of roast beef to which he was already doing ample
justice.  He laughed with the easy confidence of a man awakened
from some haunting nightmare, relieved to find his feet once more
firm upon the ground.

"I have been a fool to take the whole matter so seriously,
Andrew," he declared.  "I expect to walk back to Clarges Street
to-night, disillusioned.  The man will probably present me with a
gold pencil-case, and the woman--"

"Well, what about the woman?" Wilmore asked, after a brief pause.

"Oh, I don't know!" Francis declared, a little impatiently.  "The
woman is the mystery, of course.  Probably my brain was a little
over-excited when I came out of Court, and what I imagined to be
an epic was nothing more than a tissue of exaggerations from a
disappointed wife.  I'm sure I'm doing the right thing to go
there ....  What about a four-ball this afternoon, Andrew?"

The four-ball match was played and won in normal fashion.  The
two men returned to town together afterwards, Wilmore to the club
and Francis to his rooms in Clarges Street to prepare for dinner.
At a few minutes to eight he rang the bell of number 10 b, Hill
Street, and found his host and hostess awaiting him in the small
drawing-room into which he was ushered.  It seemed to him that
the woman, still colourless, again marvellously gowned, greeted
him coldly.  His host, however, was almost too effusive.  There
was no other guest, but the prompt announcement of dinner
dispelled what might have been a few moments of embarrassment
after Oliver Hilditch's almost too cordial greeting.  The woman
laid her fingers upon her guest's coat-sleeve.  The trio crossed
the little hall almost in silence.

Dinner was served in a small white Georgian dining-room, with
every appurtenance of almost Sybaritic luxury.  The only light in
the room was thrown upon the table by two purple-shaded electric
lamps, and the servants who waited seemed to pass backwards and
forwards like shadows in some mysterious twilight--even the faces
of the three diners themselves were out of the little pool of
light until they leaned forward.  The dinner was chosen with
taste and restraint, the wines were not only costly but rare.  A
watchful butler, attended now and then by a trim parlour-maid,
superintended the service.  Only once, when she ordered a bowl of
flowers removed from the table, did their mistress address either
of them.  Conversation after the first few amenities speedily
became almost a monologue.  One man talked whilst the others
listened, and the man who talked was Oliver Hilditch.  He
possessed the rare gift of imparting colour and actuality in a
few phrases to the strange places of which he spoke, of bringing
the very thrill of strange happenings into the shadowy room.  It
seemed that there was scarcely a country of the world which he
had not visited, a country, that is to say, where men congregate,
for he admitted from the first that he was a city worshipper,
that the empty places possessed no charm for him.

"I am not even a sportsman," he confessed once, half
apologetically, in reply to a question from his guest.  "I have
passed down the great rivers of the world without a thought of
salmon, and I have driven through the forest lands and across the
mountains behind a giant locomotive, without a thought of the
beasts which might be lurking there, waiting to be killed.  My
only desire has been to reach the next place where men and women
were."

"Irrespective of nationality?" Francis queried.

"Absolutely.  I have never minded much of what race--I have the
trick of tongues rather strangely developed--but I like the
feeling of human beings around me.  I like the smell and sound
and atmosphere of a great city.  Then all my senses are awake,
but life becomes almost turgid in my veins during the dreary
hours of passing from one place to another."

"Do you rule out scenery as well as sport from amongst the joys
of travel?" Francis enquired.

"I am ashamed to make such a confession," his host answered, "but
I have never lingered for a single unnecessary moment to look at
the most wonderful landscape in the world.  On the other hand, I
have lounged for hours in the narrowest streets of Pekin, in the
markets of Shanghai, along Broadway in New York, on the
boulevards in Paris, outside the Auditorium in Chicago.  These
are the obvious places where humanity presses the thickest, but I
know of others.  Some day we will talk of them."

Francis, too, although that evening, through sheer lack of
sympathy, he refused to admit it, shared to some extent
Hilditch's passionate interest in his fellow-creatures, and
notwithstanding the strange confusion of thought into which he
had been thrown during the last twenty-four hours, he felt
something of the pungency of life, the thrill of new and
appealing surroundings, as he sat in his high-backed chair,
sipping his wonderful wine, eating almost mechanically what was
set before him, fascinated through all his being by his strange
company.

For three days he had cast occasional glances at this man, seated
in the criminal dock with a gaoler on either side of him, his
fine, nervous features gaining an added distinction from the
sordidness of his surroundings.  Now, in the garb of
civilisation, seated amidst luxury to which he was obviously
accustomed, with a becoming light upon his face and this strange,
fascinating flow of words proceeding always from his lips, the
man, from every external point of view, seemed amongst the chosen
ones of the world.  The contrast was in itself amazing.  And then
the woman!  Francis looked at her but seldom, and when he did it
was with a curious sense of mental disturbance; poignant but
unanalysable.

It was amazing to see her here, opposite the man of whom she had
told him that ghastly story, mistress of his house, to all
appearance his consort, apparently engrossed in his polished
conversation, yet with that subtle withholding of her real self
which Francis rather imagined than felt, and which somehow seemed
to imply her fierce resentment of her husband's re-entry into the
arena of life.  It was a situation so strange that Francis,
becoming more and more subject to its influence, was inclined to
wonder whether he had not met with some accident on his way from
the Court, and whether this was not one of the heated nightmares
following unconsciousness.

"Tell me," he asked his host, during one of the brief pauses in
the conversation, "have you ever tried to analyse this interest
of yours in human beings and crowded cities, this hatred of
solitude and empty spaces?"

Oliver Hilditch smiled thoughtfully, and gazed at a salted almond
which he was just balancing between the tips of his fingers.

"I think," he said simply, "it is because I have no soul."




CHAPTER VI


The three diners lingered for only a short time over their
dessert.  Afterwards, they passed together into a very delightful
library on the other side of the round, stone-paved hall.
Hilditch excused himself for a moment.

"I have some cigars which I keep in my dressing-room," he
explained, "and which I am anxious for you to try.  There is an
electric stove there and I can regulate the temperature."

He departed, closing the door behind him.  Francis came a little
further into the room.  His hostess, who had subsided into an
easy-chair and was holding a screen between her face and the
fire, motioned him to, seat himself opposite.  He did so without
words.  He felt curiously and ridiculously tongue-tied.  He fell
to studying the woman instead of attempting the banality of
pointless speech.  From the smooth gloss of her burnished hair,
to the daintiness of her low, black brocaded shoes, she
represented, so far as her physical and outward self were
concerned, absolute perfection.  No ornament was amiss, no line
or curve of her figure other than perfectly graceful.  Yet even
the fire's glow which she had seemed to dread brought no flush of
colour to her cheeks.  Her appearance of complete lifelessness
remained.  It was as though some sort of crust had formed about
her being, a condition which her very physical perfection seemed
to render the more incomprehensible.

"You are surprised to see me here living with my husband, after
what I told you yesterday afternoon?" she said calmly, breaking
at last the silence which had reigned between them.

"I am," he admitted.

"It seems unnatural to you, I suppose?"

"Entirely."

"You still believe all that I told you?"

"I must."

She looked at the door and raised her head a little, as though
either listening or adjudging the time before her husband would
return.  Then she glanced across at him once more.

"Hatred," she said, "does not always drive away.  Sometimes it
attracts.  Sometimes the person who hates can scarcely bear the
other out of his sight.  That is where hate and love are somewhat
alike."

The room was warm but Francis was conscious of shivering.  She
raised her finger warningly.  It seemed typical of the woman,
somehow, that the message could not be conveyed by any glance or
gesture.

"He is coming," she whispered.

Oliver Hilditch reappeared, carrying cigars wrapped in gold foil
which he had brought with him from Cuba, the tobacco of which was
a revelation to his guest.  The two men smoked and sipped their
coffee and brandy.  The woman sat with half-closed eyes.  It was
obvious that Hilditch was still in the mood for speech.

"I will tell you, Mr. Ledsam," he said, "why I am so happy to
have you here this evening.  In the first place, I desire to
tender you once more my thanks for your very brilliant efforts on
my behalf.  The very fact that I am able to offer you hospitality
at all is without a doubt due to these."

"I only did what I was paid to do," Francis insisted, a little
harshly.  "You must remember that these things come in the day's
work with us."

His host nodded.

"Naturally," he murmured.  "There was another reason, too, why I
was anxious to meet you, Mr. Ledsam," he continued.  "You have
gathered already that I am something of a crank.  I have a
profound detestation of all sentimentality and affected morals.
It is a relief to me to come into contact with a man who is free
from that bourgeois incubus to modern enterprise--a conscience."

"Is that your estimate of me?" Francis asked.

"Why not?  You practise your profession in the criminal courts,
do you not?"

"That is well-known," was the brief reply.

"What measure of conscience can a man have," Oliver Hilditch
argued blandly, "who pleads for the innocent and guilty alike
with the same simulated fervour?  Confess, now, Mr. Ledsam--there
is no object in being hypocritical in this matter--have you not
often pleaded for the guilty as though you believed them
innocent?"

"That has sometimes been my duty," Francis acknowledged.

Hilditch laughed scornfully.

"It is all part of the great hypocrisy of society," he proclaimed.
"You have an extra glass of champagne for dinner at night and are
congratulated by your friends because you have helped some poor
devil to cheat the law, while all the time you know perfectly
well, and so do your high-minded friends, that your whole
attitude during those two hours of eloquence has been a lie.
That is what first attracted me to you, Mr. Ledsam."

"I am sorry to hear it," Francis commented coldly.  "The ethics
of my profession--"

His host stopped him with a little wave of the hand.

"Spare me that," he begged.  "While we are on the subject,
though, I have a question to ask you.  My lawyer told me,
directly after he had briefed you, that, although it would make
no real difference to your pleading, it would be just as well for
me to keep up my bluff of being innocent, even in private
conversation with you.  Why was that?"

"For the very obvious reason," Francis told him, "that we are not
all such rogues and vagabonds as you seem to think.  There is
more satisfaction to me, at any rate, in saving an innocent man's
life than a guilty one's."

Hilditch laughed as though amused.

"Come," he threatened, "I am going to be ill-natured.  You have
shown signs of smugness, a quality which I detest.  I am going to
rob you of some part of your self-satisfaction.  Of course I
killed Jordan.  I killed him in the very chair in which you are
now sitting."

There was a moment's intense silence.  The woman was still
fanning herself lazily.  Francis leaned forward in his place.

"I do not wish to hear this!" he exclaimed harshly.

"Don't be foolish," his host replied, rising to his feet and
strolling across the room.  "You know the whole trouble of the
prosecution.  They couldn't discover the weapon, or anything like
it, with which the deed was done.  Now I'll show you something
ingenious."

Francis followed the other's movements with fascinated eyes.  The
woman scarcely turned her head.  Hilditch paused at the further
end of the room, where there were a couple of gun cases, some
fishing rods and a bag, of golf clubs.  From the latter he
extracted a very ordinary-looking putter, and with it in his
hands strolled back to them.

"Do you play golf, Ledsam?" he asked.  "What do you think of
that?"

Francis took the putter into his hand.  It was a very ordinary
club, which had apparently seen a good deal of service, so much,
indeed, that the leather wrapping at the top was commencing to
unroll.  The maker's name was on the back of the blade, also the
name of the professional from whom it had been purchased.
Francis swung the implement mechanically with his wrists.

"There seems to be nothing extraordinary about the club," he
pronounced.  "It is very much like a cleek I putt with myself."

"Yet it contains a secret which would most certainly have hanged
me," Oliver Hilditch declared pleasantly.  "See!"

He held the shaft firmly in one hand and bent the blade away from
it.  In a moment or two it yielded and he commenced to unscrew
it.  A little exclamation escaped from Francis' lips.  The woman
looked on with tired eyes.

"The join in the steel," Hilditch pointed out, "is so fine as to
be undistinguishable by the naked eye.  Yet when the blade comes
off, like this, you see that although the weight is absolutely
adjusted, the inside is hollow.  The dagger itself is encased in
this cotton wool to avoid any rattling.  I put it away in rather
a hurry the last time I used it, and as you see I forgot to clean
it."

Francis staggered back and gripped at the mantelpiece.  His eyes
were filled with horror.  Very slowly, and with the air of one
engaged upon some interesting task, Oliver Hilditch had removed
the blood-stained sheath of cotton wool from around the thin
blade of a marvellous-looking stiletto, on which was also a long
stain of encrusted blood.

"There is a handle," he went on, "which is perhaps the most
ingenious thing of all.  You touch a spring here, and behold!"

He pressed down two tiny supports which opened upon hinges about
four inches from the top of the handle.  There was now a complete
hilt.

"With this little weapon," he explained, "the point is so
sharpened and the steel so wonderful that it is not necessary to
stab.  It has the perfection of a surgical instrument.  You have
only to lean it against a certain point in a man's anatomy, lunge
ever so little and the whole thing is done.  Come here, Mr.
Ledsam, and I will show you the exact spot."

Francis made no movement.  His eyes were fixed upon the weapon.

"If I had only known!" he muttered.

"My dear fellow, if you had," the other protested soothingly,
"you know perfectly well that it would not have made the
slightest difference.  Perhaps that little break in your voice
would not have come quite so naturally, the little sweep of your
arm towards me, the man whom a moment's thoughtlessness might
sweep into Eternity, would have been a little stiffer, but what
matter?  You would still have done your best and you would
probably still have succeeded.  You don't care about trifling
with Eternity, eh?  Very well, I will find the place for you."

Hilditch's fingers strayed along his shirt-front until he found
a certain spot.  Then he leaned the dagger against it, his
forefinger and second finger pressed against the hilt.  His eyes
were fixed upon his guest's.  He seemed genuinely interested.
Francis, glancing away for a moment, was suddenly conscious of
a new horror.  The woman had leaned a little forward in her
easy-chair until she had attained almost a crouching position.
Her eyes seemed to be measuring the distance from where she sat
to that quivering thread of steel.

"You see, Ledsam," his host went on, "that point driven now at
that angle would go clean through the vital part of my heart.
And it needs no force, either--just the slow pressure of these
two fingers.  What did you say, Margaret?" he enquired, breaking
off abruptly.

The woman was seated upon the very edge of her chair, her eyes
rivetted upon the dagger.  There was no change in her face, not a
tremor in her tone.

"I said nothing," she replied.  "I did not speak at all.  I was
just watching."

Hilditch turned back to his guest.

"These two fingers," he repeated, "and a flick of the wrist
--very little more than would be necessary for a thirty yard putt
right across the green."

Francis had recovered himself, had found his bearings to a
certain extent.

"I am sorry that you have told me this, Mr. Hilditch," he said, a
little stiffly.

"Why?" was the puzzled reply.  "I thought you would be
interested."

"I am interested to this extent," Francis declared, "I shall
accept no more cases such as yours unless I am convinced of my
client's innocence.  I look upon your confession to me as being
in the worst possible taste, and I regret very much my efforts on
your behalf."

The woman was listening intently.  Hilditch's expression was one
of cynical wonder.  Francis rose to his feet and moved across to
his hostess.

"Mrs. Hilditch," he said, "will you allow me to make my
apologies?  Your husband and I have arrived at an understanding
--or perhaps I should say a misunderstanding--which renders the
acceptance of any further hospitality on my part impossible."

She held out the tips of her fingers.

"I had no idea," she observed, with gentle sarcasm, "that you
barristers were such purists morally.  I thought you were rather
proud of being the last hope of the criminal classes."

"Madam," Francis replied, "I am not proud of having saved the
life of a self-confessed murderer, even though that man may be
your husband."

Hilditch was laughing softly to himself as he escorted his
departing guest to the door.

"You have a quaint sense of humour," Francis remarked.

"Forgive me," Oliver Hilditch begged, "but your last few words
rather appealed to me.  You must be a person of very scanty
perceptions if you could spend the evening here and not
understand that my death is the one thing in the world which
would make my wife happy."

Francis walked home with these last words ringing in his ears.
They seemed with him even in that brief period of troubled sleep
which came to him when he had regained his rooms and turned in.
They were there in the middle of the night when he was awakened,
shivering, by the shrill summons of his telephone bell.  He stood
quaking before the instrument in his pajamas.  It was the voice
which, by reason of some ghastly premonition, he had dreaded to
hear--level, composed, emotionless.

"Mr. Ledsam?" she enquired.

"I am Francis Ledsam," he assented.  "Who wants me?"

"It is Margaret Hilditch speaking," she announced.  "I felt that
I must ring up and tell you of a very strange thing which
happened after you left this evening."

"Go on," he begged hoarsely.

"After you left," she went on, "my husband persisted in playing
with that curious dagger.  He laid it against his heart, and
seated himself in the chair which Mr. Jordan had occupied, in the
same attitude.  It was what he called a reconstruction.  While he
was holding it there, I think that he must have had a fit, or it
may have been remorse, we shall never know.  He called out and I
hurried across the room to him.  I tried to snatch the dagger
away--I did so, in fact--but I must have been too late.  He had
already applied that slight movement of the fingers which was
necessary.  The doctor has just left.  He says that death must
have been instantaneous."

"But this is horrible!" Francis cried out into the well of
darkness.

"A person is on the way from Scotland Yard," the voice continued,
without change or tremor.  "When he has satisfied himself, I am
going to bed.  He is here now.  Good-night!"

Francis tried to speak again but his words beat against a wall of
silence.  He sat upon the edge of the bed, shivering.  In that
moment of agony he seemed to hear again the echo of Oliver
Hilditch's mocking words:

"My death is the one thing in the world which would make my wife
happy!"




CHAPTER VII


There was a good deal of speculation at the Sheridan Club, of
which he was a popular and much envied member, as to the cause
for the complete disappearance from their midst of Francis Ledsam
since the culmination of the Hilditch tragedy.

"Sent back four topping briefs, to my knowledge, last week," one
of the legal luminaries of the place announced to a little group
of friends and fellow-members over a before-dinner cocktail.

"Griggs offered him the defence of William Bull, the Chippenham
murderer, and he refused it," another remarked.  "Griggs wrote
him personally, and the reply came from the Brancaster Golf Club!
It isn't like Ledsam to be taking golfing holidays in the middle
of the session."

"There's nothing wrong with Ledsam," declared a gruff voice from
the corner.  "And don't gossip, you fellows, at the top of your
voices like a lot of old women.  He'll be calling here for me in
a moment or two."

They all looked around.  Andrew Wilmore rose slowly to his feet
and emerged from behind the sheets of an evening paper.  He laid
his hand upon the shoulder of a friend, and glanced towards the
door.

"Ledsam's had a touch of nerves," he confided.  "There's been
nothing else the matter with him.  We've been down at the Dormy
House at Brancaster and he's as right as a trivet now.  That
Hilditch affair did him in completely."

"I don't see why," one of the bystanders observed.  "He got
Hilditch off all right.  One of the finest addresses to a jury I
ever heard."

"That's just the point," Wilmore explained "You see, Ledsam had
no idea that Hilditch was really guilty, and for two hours that
afternoon he literally fought for his life, and in the end
wrested a verdict from the jury, against the judge's summing up,
by sheer magnetism or eloquence or whatever you fellows like to
call it.  The very night after, Hilditch confesses his guilt and
commits suicide."

"I still don't see where Ledsam's worry comes in," the legal
luminary remarked.  "The fact that the man was guilty is rather a
feather in the cap of his counsel.  Shows how jolly good his
pleading must have been."

"Just so," Wilmore agreed, "but Ledsam, as you know, is a very
conscientious sort of fellow, and very sensitive, too.  The whole
thing was a shock to him."

"It must have been a queer experience," a novelist remarked from
the outskirts of the group, "to dine with a man whose life you
have juggled away from the law, and then have him explain his
crime to you, and the exact manner of its accomplishment.  Seems
to bring one amongst the goats, somehow."

"Bit of a shock, no doubt," the lawyer assented, "but I still
don't understand Ledsam's sending back all his briefs.  He's not
going to chuck the profession, is he?"

"Not by any means," Wilmore declared.  "I think he has an idea,
though, that he doesn't want to accept any briefs unless he is
convinced that the person whom he has to represent is innocent,
and lawyers don't like that sort of thing, you know.  You can't
pick and choose, even when you have Leadsam's gifts."

"The fact of it is," the novelist commented, "Francis Ledsam
isn't callous enough to be associated with you money-grubbing
dispensers of the law.  He'd be all right as Public Prosecutor, a
sort of Sir Galahad waving the banner of virtue, but he hates to
stuff his pockets at the expense of the criminal classes."

"Who the mischief are the criminal classes?" a police court
magistrate demanded.  "Personally, I call war profiteering
criminal, I call a good many Stock Exchange deals criminal, and,"
he added, turning to a member of the committee who was hovering
in the background, "I call it criminal to expect us to drink
French vermouth like this."

"There is another point of view," the latter retorted.  "I call
it a crime to expect a body of intelligent men to administer
without emolument to the greed of such a crowd of rotters.
You'll get the right stuff next week."

The hall-porter approached and addressed Wilmore.

"Mr. Ledsam is outside in a taxi, sir," he announced.

"Outside in a taxi?" the lawyer repeated.  "Why on earth can't he
come in?"

"I never heard such rot," another declared.  "Let's go and rope
him in."

"Mr. Ledsam desired me to say, sir," the hall porter continued,
"to any of his friends who might be here, that he will be in to
lunch to-morrow."

"Leave him to me till then," Wilmore begged.  "He'll be all right
directly.  He's simply altering his bearings and taking his time
about it.  If he's promised to lunch here to-morrow, he will.
He's as near as possible through the wood.  Coming up in the
train, he suggested a little conversation to-night and afterwards
the normal life.  He means it, too.  There's nothing neurotic
about Ledsam."

The magistrate nodded.

"Run along, then, my merry Andrew," he said, "but see that Ledsam
keeps his word about to-morrow."


Andrew Wilmore plunged boldly into the forbidden subject later on
that evening, as the two men sat side by side at one of the wall
tables in Soto's famous club restaurant.  They had consumed an
excellent dinner.  An empty champagne bottle had just been
removed, double liqueur brandies had taken its place.  Francis,
with an air of complete and even exuberant humanity, had lit a
huge cigar.  The moment seemed propitious.

"Francis," his friend began, "they say at the club that you
refused to be briefed in the Chippenham affair."

"Quite true," was the calm reply.  "I told Griggs that I wouldn't
have anything to do with it."

Wilmore knew then that all was well.  Francis' old air of
strength and decision had returned.  His voice was firm, his eyes
were clear and bright.  His manner seemed even to invite
questioning.

"I think I know why," Wilmore said, "but I should like you to
tell me in your own words."

Francis glanced around as though to be sure that they were not
overheard.

"Because," he replied, dropping his voice a little but still
speaking with great distinctness, "William Bull is a cunning and
dangerous criminal whom I should prefer to see hanged."

"You know that?"

"I know that."

"It would be a great achievement to get him off," Wilmore
persisted.  "The evidence is very weak in places."

"I believe that I could get him off," was the confident reply.
"That is why I will not touch the brief.  I think," Francis
continued, "that I have already conveyed it to you indirectly,
but here you are in plain words, Andrew.  I have made up my mind
that I will defend no man in future unless I am convinced of his
innocence."

"That means--"

"It means practically the end of my career at the bar," Francis
admitted.  "I realise that absolutely: Fortunately, as you know,
I am not dependent upon my earnings, and I have had a wonderful
ten years."

"This is all because of the Hilditch affair, I suppose?"

"Entirely."

Wilmore was still a little puzzled.

"You seem to imagine that you have something on your conscience
as regards that business," he said boldly.

"I have," was the calm reply.

"Come," Wilmore protested, "I don't quite follow your line of
thought.  Granted that Hilditch was a desperate criminal whom by
the exercise of your special gifts you saved from the law, surely
his tragic death balanced the account between you and Society?"

"It might have done," Francis admitted, "if he had really
committed suicide."

Wilmore was genuinely startled.  He looked at his companion
curiously.

"What the devil do you mean, old chap?" he demanded.  "Your own
evidence at the inquest was practically conclusive as to that."

Francis glanced around him with apparent indifference but in
reality with keen and stealthy care.  On their right was a glass
division, through which the sound of their voices could not
possibly penetrate.  On their left was an empty space, and a
table beyond was occupied by a well-known cinema magnate engaged
in testing the attractions in daily life of a would-be film star.
Nevertheless, Francis' voice was scarcely raised above a whisper.

"My evidence at the coroner's inquest," he confided, "was a
subtly concocted tissue of lies.  I committed perjury freely.
That is the real reason why I've been a little on the nervy side
lately, and why I took these few months out of harness."

"Good God!" Wilmore exclaimed, setting down untasted the glass of
brandy which he had just raised to his lips.

"I want to finish this matter up," Francis continued calmly, "by
making a clean breast of it to you, because from to-night I am
starting afresh, with new interests in my life, what will
practically amount to a new career.  That is why I preferred not
to dine at the club to-night, although I am looking forward to
seeing them all again.  I wanted instead to have this
conversation with you.  I lied at the inquest when I said that
the relations between Oliver Hilditch and his wife that night
seemed perfectly normal.  I lied when I said that I knew of no
cause for ill-will between them.  I lied when I said that I left
them on friendly terms.  I lied when I said that Oliver Hilditch
seemed depressed and nervous.  I lied when I said that he
expressed the deepest remorse for what he had done.  There was
every indication that night, of the hate which I happen to know
existed between the woman and the man.  I have not the faintest
doubt in my mind but that she murdered him.  In my judgment, she
was perfectly justified in doing so."

There followed a brief but enforced silence as some late arrivals
passed their table.  The room was well-ventilated but Andrew
Wilmore felt suddenly hot and choking.  A woman, one of the
little group of newcomers, glanced towards Francis curiously.

"Francis Ledsam, the criminal barrister," her companion
whispered,--"the man who got Oliver Hilditch off.  The man with
him is Andrew Wilmore, the novelist.  Discussing a case, I
expect."




CHAPTER VIII


The little party of late diners passed on their way to the
further end of the room, leaving a wave of artificiality behind,
or was it, Andrew Wilmore wondered, in a moment of half-dazed
speculation, that it was they and the rest of the gay company who
represented the real things, and he and his companion who were
playing a sombre part in some unreal and gloomier world.
Francis' voice, however, when he recommenced his diatribe, was
calm and matter-of-fact enough.

"You see," he continued, argumentatively, "I was morally and
actually responsible for the man's being brought back into
Society.  And far worse than that, I was responsible for his
being thrust back again upon his wife.  Ergo, I was also
responsible for what she did that night.  The matter seems as
plain as a pikestaff to me.  I did what I could to atone, rightly
or wrongly it doesn't matter, because it is over and done with.
There you are, old fellow, now you know what's been making me
nervy.  I've committed wholesale perjury, but I acted according
to my conscience and I think according to justice.  The thing has
worried me, I admit, but it has passed, and I'm glad it's off my
chest.  One more liqueur, Andrew, and if you want to we'll talk
about my plans for the future."

The brandy was brought.  Wilmore studied his friend curiously,
not without some relief.  Francis had lost the harassed and
nervous appearance upon which his club friends had commented,
which had been noticeable, even, to a diminishing extent, upon
the golf course at Brancaster.  He was alert and eager.  He had
the air of a man upon the threshold of some enterprise dear to
his heart.

"I have been through a queer experience," Francis continued
presently, as he sipped his second liqueur.  "Not only had I
rather less than twelve hours to make up my mind whether I should
commit a serious offence against the law, but a sensation which I
always hoped that I might experience, has come to me in what I
suppose I must call most unfortunate fashion."

"The woman?" Wilmore ventured.

Francis assented gloomily.  There was a moment's silence.
Wilmore, the metaphysician, saw then a strange thing.  He saw a
light steal across his friend's stern face.  He saw his eyes for
a moment soften, the hard mouth relax, something incredible,
transforming, shine, as it were, out of the man's soul in that
moment of self-revelation.  It was gone like the momentary
passing of a strange gleam of sunshine across a leaden sea, but
those few seconds were sufficient.  Wilmore knew well enough what
had happened.

"Oliver Hilditch's wife," Francis went on, after a few minutes'
pause, "presents an enigma which at present I cannot hope to
solve.  The fact that she received her husband back again,
knowing what he was and what he was capable of, is inexplicable
to me.  The woman herself is a mystery.  I do not know what lies
behind her extraordinary immobility.  Feeling she must have, and
courage, or she would never have dared to have ridded herself of
the scourge of her life.  But beyond that my judgment tells me
nothing.  I only know that sooner or later I shall seek her out.
I shall discover all that I want to know, one way or the other.
It may be for happiness--it may be the end of the things that
count."

"I guessed this," Wilmore admitted, with a little shiver which he
was wholly unable to repress.

Francis nodded.

"Then keep it to yourself, my dear fellow," he begged, "like
everything else I am telling you tonight.  I have come out of my
experience changed in many ways," he continued, "but, leaving out
that one secret chapter, this is the dominant factor which looms
up before me.  I bring into life a new aversion, almost a
passion, Andrew, born in a tea-shop in the city, and ministered
to by all that has happened since.  I have lost that sort of
indifference which my profession engenders towards crime.  I am
at war with the criminal, sometimes, I hope, in the Courts of
Justice, but forever out of them.  I am no longer indifferent as
to whether men do good or evil so long as they do not cross my
path.  I am a hunter of sin.  I am out to destroy.  There's a
touch of melodrama in this for you, Andrew," he concluded, with a
little laugh, "but, my God, I'm in earnest!"

"What does this mean so far as regards the routine of your daily
life?" Wilmore asked curiously.

"Well, it brings us to the point we discussed down at
Brancaster," Francis replied.  "It will affect my work to this
extent.  I shall not accept any brief unless, after reading the
evidence, I feel convinced that the accused is innocent."

"That's all very well," Wilmore observed, "but you know what it
will mean, don't you?  Lawyers aren't likely to single you out
for a brief without ever feeling sure whether you will accept it
or not."

"That doesn't worry me," Francis declared.  "I don't need the
fees, fortunately, and I can always pick up enough work to keep
me going by attending Sessions.  One thing I can promise you--I
certainly shall not sit in my rooms and wait for things to
happen.  Mine is a militant spirit and it needs the outlet of
action."

"Action, yes, but how?" Wilmore queried.  "You can't be always
hanging about the courts, waiting for the chance of defending
some poor devil who's been wrongfully accused--there aren't
enough of them, for one thing.  On the other hand, you can't walk
down Regent Street, brandishing a two-edged sword and hunting for
pickpockets."

Francis smiled.

"Nothing so flamboyant, I can assure you, Andrew," he replied;
"nor shall I play the amateur detective with his mouth open for
mysteries.  But listen," he went on earnestly.  "I've had some
experience, as you know, and, notwithstanding the Oliver
Hilditch's of the world, I can generally tell a criminal when I
meet him face to face.  There are plenty of them about, too,
Andrew--as many in this place as any other.  I am not going to be
content with a negative position as regards evildoers.  I am
going to set my heel on as many of the human vermin of this city
as I can find."

"A laudable, a most exhilarating and delightful pursuit!  `human
vermin,' too, is excellent.  It opens up a new and fascinating
vista for the modern sportsman.  My congratulations!"

It was an interruption of peculiar and wonderful significance,
but Francis did not for the moment appreciate the fact.  Turning
his head, he simply saw a complete stranger seated unaccountably
at the next table, who had butted into a private conversation and
whose tone of gentle sarcasm, therefore, was the more offensive.

"Who the devil are you, sir," he demanded, "and where did you
come from?"

The newcomer showed no resentment at Francis' little outburst.
He simply smiled with deprecating amiability--a tall, spare man,
with lean, hard face, complexion almost unnaturally white; black
hair, plentifully besprinkled with grey; a thin, cynical mouth,
notwithstanding its distinctly humourous curve, and keen, almost
brilliant dark eyes.  He was dressed in ordinary dinner garb; his
linen and jewellery was indeed in the best possible taste.
Francis, at his second glance, was troubled with a vague sense of
familiarity.

"Let me answer your last question first, sir," the intruder
begged.  "I was seated alone, several tables away, when the
couple next to you went out, and having had pointed out to me the
other evening at Claridge's Hotel, and knowing well by repute,
the great barrister, Mr. Francis Ledsam, and his friend the
world-famed novelist, Mr. Andrew Wilmore, I--er--unobtrusively
made my way, half a yard at a time, in your direction--and here I
am.  I came stealthily, you may object?  Without a doubt.  If I
had come in any other fashion, I should have disturbed a
conversation in which I was much interested."

"Could you find it convenient," Francis asked, with icy
politeness, "to return to your own table, stealthily or not, as
you choose?"

The newcomer showed no signs of moving.

"In after years," he declared, "you would be the first to regret
the fact if I did so.  This is a momentous meeting.  It gives me
an opportunity of expressing my deep gratitude to you, Mr.
Ledsam, for the wonderful evidence you tendered at the inquest
upon the body of my son-in-law, Oliver Hilditch."

Francis turned in his place and looked steadily at this unsought-for
companion, learning nothing, however, from the half-mocking smile
and imperturbable expression.

"Your son-in-law?" he repeated.  "Do you mean to say that you are
the father of--of Oliver Hilditch's wife?"

"Widow," the other corrected gently.  "I have that honour.  You
will understand, therefore, that I feel myself on this, the first
opportunity, compelled to tender my sincere thanks for evidence
so chivalrously offered, so flawlessly truthful."

Francis was a man accustomed to self-control, but he clenched his
hands so that his finger nails dug into his flesh.  He was filled
with an insane and unreasoning resentment against this man whose
words were biting into his conscience.  Nevertheless, he kept his
tone level.

"I do not desire your gratitude," he said, "nor, if you will
permit me to say so, your further acquaintance."

The stranger shook his head regretfully.

"You are wrong," he protested.  "We were bound, in any case, to
know one another.  Shall I tell you why?  You have just declared
yourself anxious to set your heel upon the criminals of the
world.  I have the distinction of being perhaps the most famous
patron of that maligned class now living--and my neck is at your
service."

"You appear to me," Francis said suavely, "to be a buffoon."

It might have been fancy, but Francis could have sworn that he
saw the glitter of a sovereign malevolence in the other's dark
eyes.  If so, it was but a passing weakness, for a moment later
the half good-natured, half cynical smile was back again upon the
man's lips.

"If so, I am at least a buffoon of parts," was the prompt
rejoinder.  "I will, if you choose, prove myself."

There was a moment's silence.  Wilmore was leaning forward in his
place, studying the newcomer earnestly.  An impatient invective
was somehow stifled upon Francis' lips.

"Within a few yards of this place, sometime before the closing
hour to-night," the intruder continued, earnestly yet with a
curious absence of any human quality in his hard tone, "there
will be a disturbance, and probably what you would call a crime
will be committed.  Will you use your vaunted gifts to hunt down
the desperate criminal, and, in your own picturesque phraseology,
set your heel upon his neck?  Success may bring you fame, and the
trail may lead--well, who knows where?"

Afterwards, both Francis and Andrew Wilmore marvelled at
themselves, unable at any time to find any reasonable explanation
of their conduct, for they answered this man neither with
ridicule, rudeness nor civility.  They simply stared at him,
impressed with the convincing arrogance of his challenge and
unable to find words of reply.  They received his mocking
farewell without any form of reciprocation or sign of resentment.
They watched him leave the room, a dignified, distinguished
figure, sped on his way with marks of the deepest respect by
waiters, maitres d'hotels and even the manager himself.  They
behaved, indeed, as they both admitted afterwards, like a couple
of moonstruck idiots.  When he had finally disappeared, however,
they looked at one another and the spell was broken.

"Well, I'm damned!" Francis exclaimed.  "Soto, come here at
once."

The manager hastened smilingly to their table.

"Soto," Francis invoked, "tell us quickly--tell us the name of
the gentleman who has just gone out, and who he is?"

Soto was amazed.

"You don't know Sir Timothy Brast, sir?" he exclaimed.  "Why, he
is supposed to be one of the richest men in the world!  He spends
money like water.  They say that when he is in England, his place
down the river alone costs a thousand pounds a week.  When he
gives a party here, we can find nothing good enough.  He is our
most generous client."

"Sir Timothy Brast," Wilmore repeated.  "Yes, I have heard of
him."

"Why, everybody knows Sir Timothy," Soto went on eloquently.  "He
is the greatest living patron of boxing.  He found the money for
the last international fight."

"Does he often come in alone like this?" Francis asked curiously.

"Either alone," Soto replied, "or with a very large party.  He
entertains magnificently."

"I've seen his name in the paper in connection with something or
other, during the last few weeks," Wilmore remarked reflectively.

"Probably about two months ago, sir," Soto suggested.  "He gave a
donation of ten thousand pounds to the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals, and they made him a Vice President.... In
one moment, sir."

The manager hurried away to receive a newly-arrived guest.
Francis and his friend exchanged a wondering glance.

"Father of Oliver Hilditch's wife," Wilmore observed, "the most
munificent patron of boxing in the world, Vice President of
the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and
self-confessed arch-criminal!  He pulled our legs pretty well!"

"I suppose so," Francis assented absently.

Wilmore glanced at his watch.

"What about moving on somewhere?" he suggested.  "We might go
into the Alhambra for half-an-hour, if you like.  The last act of
the show is the best."

Francis shook his head.

"We've got to see this thing out," he replied.  "Have you
forgotten that our friend promised us a sensation before we
left?"

Wilmore began to laugh a little derisively.  Then, suddenly aware
of some lack of sympathy between himself and his friend, he broke
off and glanced curiously at the latter.

"You're not taking him seriously, are you?" he enquired.

Francis nodded.

"Certainly I am," he confessed.

"You don't believe that he was getting at us?"

"Not for a moment."

"You believe that something is going to happen here in this
place, or quite close?"

"I am convinced of it," was the calm reply.

Wilmore was silent.  For a moment he was troubled with his old
fears as to his friend's condition.  A glance, however, at
Francis' set face and equable, watchful air, reassured him.

"We must see the thing through, of course, then," he assented.
"Let us see if we can spot the actors in the coming drama."




CHAPTER IX


It happened that the two men, waiting in the vestibule of the
restaurant for Francis' car to crawl up to the entrance through
the fog which had unexpectedly rolled up, heard the slight
altercation which was afterwards referred to as preceding the
tragedy.  The two young people concerned were standing only a few
feet away, the girl pretty, a little peevish, an ordinary type;
her companion, whose boyish features were marred with dissipation,
a very passable example of the young man about town going a little
beyond his tether.

"It's no good standing here, Victor!" the girl exclaimed,
frowning.  "The commissionaire's been gone ages already, and
there are two others before us for taxis."

"We can't walk," her escort replied gloomily.  "It's a foul
night.  Nothing to do but wait, what?  Let's go back and have
another drink."

The girl stamped her satin-shod foot impatiently.

"Don't be silly," she expostulated.  "You know I promised Clara
we'd be there early."

"All very well," the young man grumbled, "but what can we do?  We
shall have to wait our turn."

"Why can't you slip out and look for a taxi yourself?" she
suggested.  "Do, Victor," she added, squeezing his arm.  "You're
so clever at picking them up."

He made a little grimace, but lit a cigarette and turned up his
coat collar.

"I'll do my best," he promised.  "Don't go on without me."

"Try up towards Charing Cross Road, not the other way," she
advised earnestly.

"Right-oh!" he replied, which illuminative form of assent, a word
spoken as he plunged unwillingly into the thick obscurity on the
other side of the revolving doors, was probably the last he ever
uttered on earth.

Left alone, the girl began to shiver, as though suddenly cold.
She turned around and glanced hurriedly back into the restaurant.
At that moment she met the steady, questioning scrutiny of
Francis' eyes.  She stood as though transfixed.  Then came the
sound which every one talked of for months afterwards, the sound
which no one who heard it ever forgot--the death cry of Victor
Bidlake, followed a second afterwards by a muffled report.  A
strain of frenzied surprise seemed mingled with the horror.
Afterwards, silence.

There was the sound of some commotion outside, the sound of
hurried footsteps and agitated voices.  Then a terrible little
procession appeared.  Something--it seemed to be a shapeless heap
of clothes--was carried in and laid upon the floor, in the little
space between the revolving doors and the inner entrance.  Two
blue-liveried attendants kept back the horrified but curious
crowd.  Francis, vaguely recognised as being somehow or other
connected with the law, was one of the few people allowed to
remain whilst a doctor, fetched out from the dancing-room,
kneeled over the prostrate form.  He felt that he knew beforehand
the horrible verdict which the latter whispered in his ear after
his brief examination.

"Quite dead!  A ghastly business!"

Francis gazed at the hole in the shirt-front, disfigured also by
a scorching stain.

"A bullet?" he asked.

The doctor nodded.

"Fired within a foot of the poor fellow's heart," he whispered.
"The murderer wasn't taking any chances, whoever he was."

"Have the police been sent for?"

The head-porter stepped forward.

"There was a policeman within a few yards of the spot, sir," he
replied.  "He's gone down to keep every one away from the place
where we found the body.  We've telephoned to Scotland Yard for
an inspector."

The doctor rose to his feet.

"Nothing more can be done," he pronounced.  "Keep the people out
of here whilst I go and fetch my hat and coat.  Afterwards, I'll
take the body to the mortuary when the ambulance arrives."

An attendant pushed his way through the crowd of people on the
inner side of the door.

"Miss Daisy Hyslop, young lady who was with Mr. Bidlake, has just
fainted in the ladies' room, sir," he announced.  "Could you
come?"

"I'll be there immediately," the doctor promised.

The rest of the proceedings followed a normal course.  The police
arrived, took various notes, the ambulance followed a little
later, the body was removed, and the little crowd of guests,
still infected with a sort of awed excitement, were allowed to
take their leave.  Francis and Wilmore drove almost in silence to
the former's rooms in Clarges Street.

"Come up and have a drink, Andrew," Francis invited.

"I need it," was the half-choked response.

Francis led the way in silence up the two flights of stairs into
his sitting-room, mixed whiskies and sodas from the decanter and
syphon which stood upon the sideboard, and motioned his friend to
an easy-chair.  Then he gave form to the thought which had been
haunting them both.

"What about our friend Sir Timothy Brast?" he enquired.  "Do you
believe now that he was pulling our legs?"

Wilmore dabbed his forehead with his handkerchief.  It was a
chilly evening, but there were drops of perspiration still
standing there.

"Francis," he confessed, "it's horrible!  I don't think realism
like this attracts me.  It's horrible!  What are we going to do?"

"Nothing for the present," was the brief reply.  "If we were to
tell our story, we should only be laughed at.  What there is to
be done falls to my lot."

"Had the police anything to say about it?" Wilmore asked.

"Only a few words," Francis replied.  "Shopland has it in hand.
A good man but unimaginative.  I've come across him in one or two
cases lately.  You'll find a little bit like this in the papers
to-morrow: 'The murder is believed to have been committed by one
of the gang of desperadoes who have infested the west-end during
the last few months.'  You remember the assault in the Albany
Court Yard, and the sandbagging in Shepherd Market only last
week?"

"That seems to let Sir Timothy out," Wilmore remarked.

"There are many motives for crime besides robbery," Francis
declared.  "Don't be afraid, Andrew, that I am going to turn
amateur detective and make the unravelment of this case all the
more difficult for Scotland Yard.  If I interfere, it will be on
a certainty.  Andrew, don't think I'm mad but I've taken up the
challenge our great philanthropist flung at me to-night.  I've
very little interest in who killed this boy Victor Bidlake, or
why, but I'm convinced of one thing--Brast knew about it, and if
he is posing as a patron of crime on a great scale, sooner or
later I shall get him.  He may think himself safe, and he may
have the courage of Beelzebub--he seems rather that type--but if
my presentiment about him--comes true, his number's up.  I can
almost divine the meaning of his breaking in upon our
conversation to-night.  He needs an enemy--he is thirsting for
danger.  He has found it!"

Wilmore filled his pipe thoughtfully.  At the first whiff of
tobacco he began to feel more normal.

"After all, Francis," he said, "aren't we a little overstrung
to-night?  Sir Timothy Brast is no adventurer.  He is a prince
in the city, a persona grata wherever he chooses to go.  He isn't
a hanger-on in Society.  He isn't even dependent upon Bohemia for
his entertainment.  You can't seriously imagine that a man with
his possessions is likely to risk his life and liberty in
becoming the inspiration of a band of cutthroats?"

Francis smiled.  He, too, had lit his pipe and had thrown himself
into his favourite chair.  He smiled confidently across at his
friend.

"A millionaire with brains," he argued, "is just the one person
in the world likely to weary of all ordinary forms of diversion.
I begin to remember things about him already.  Haven't you heard
about his wonderful parties down at The Walled House?"

Wilmore struck the table by his side with his clenched fist.

"By George, that's it!" he exclaimed.  "Who hasn't!"

"I remember Baker talking about one last year," Francis
continued, "never any details, but all kinds of mysterious hints
--a sort of mixture between a Roman orgy and a chapter from the
'Arabian Nights'--singers from Petrograd, dancers from Africa and
fighting men from Chicago."

"The fellow's magnificent, at any rate," Wilmore remarked.

His host smoked furiously for a moment.

"That's the worst of these multi-millionaires," he declared.
"They think they can rule the world, traffic in human souls, buy
morals, mock at the law.  We shall see!"

"Do you know the thing that I found most interesting about him?"
Wilmore asked.

"His black opals," the other suggested.  "You're by the way of
being a collector, aren't you?"

Wilmore shook his head.

"The fact that he is the father of Oliver Hilditch's widow."

Francis sat quite still for a moment.  There was a complete
change in his expression.  He looked like a man who has received
a shock.

"I forgot that," he muttered.




CHAPTER X


Francis met Shopland one morning about a week later, on his way
from Clarges Street to his chambers in the Temple.  The detective
raised his hat and would have passed on, but Francis accosted
him.

"Any progress, Mr. Shopland?" he enquired.

The detective fingered his small, sandy moustache.  He was an
insignificant-looking little man, undersized, with thin frame and
watery eyes.  His mouth, however, was hard, and there were some
tell-tale little lines at its corners.

"None whatever, I am sorry to say, Mr. Ledsam," he admitted.  "At
present we are quite in the dark."

"You found the weapon, I hear?"

Shopland nodded.

"It was just an ordinary service revolver, dating from the time
of the war, exactly like a hundred thousand others.  The
enquiries we were able to make from it came to nothing."

"Where was it picked up?"

"In the middle of the waste plot of ground next to Soto's.  The
murderer evidently threw it there the moment he had discharged
it.  He must have been wearing rubber-soled shoes, for not a soul
heard him go."

Francis nodded thoughtfully.

"I wonder," he said, after a slight pause, "whether it ever
occurred to you to interview Miss Daisy Hyslop, the young lady
who was with Bidlake on the night of his murder?"

"I called upon her the day afterwards," the detective answered.

"She had nothing to say?"

"Nothing whatever."

"Indirectly, of course," Francis continued, "the poor girl was
the cause of his death.  If she had not insisted upon his going
out for a taxicab, the man who was loitering about would probably
have never got hold of him."

The detective glanced up furtively at the speaker.  He seemed to
reflect for a moment.

"I gathered," he said, "in conversation with the commissionaire,
that Miss Hyslop was a little impatient that night.  It seems,
however, that she was anxious to get to a ball which was being
given down in Kensington."

"There was a ball, was there?" Francis asked.

"Without a doubt," the detective replied.  "It was given by a
Miss Clara Bultiwell.  She happens to remember urging Miss Hyslop
to come on as early as possible."

"So that's that," Francis observed.

"Just so, Mr. Ledsam," the detective murmured.

They were walking along the Mall now, eastwards.  The detective,
who seemed to have been just a saunterer, had accommodated
himself to Francis' destination.

"Let me see, there was nothing stolen from the young man's
person, was there?" Francis asked presently.

"Apparently nothing at all, sir."

"And I gather that you have made every possible enquiry as to the
young man's relations with his friends?"

"So far as one can learn, sir, they seem to have been perfectly
amicable."

"Of course," Francis remarked presently, "this may have been
quite a purposeless affair.  The deed may have been committed by
a man who was practically a lunatic, without any motive or reason
whatever."

"Precisely so, sir," the detective agreed.

"But, all the same, I don't think it was."

"Neither do I, sir."

Francis smiled slightly.

"Shopland," he said, "if there is no further external evidence to
be collected, I suggest that there is only one person likely to
prove of assistance to you."

"And that one person, sir?"

"Miss Daisy Hyslop."

"The young lady whom I have already seen?"

Francis nodded.

"The young lady whom you have already seen," he assented.  "At
the same time, Mr. Shopland, we must remember this.  If Miss
Hyslop has any knowledge of the facts which are behind Mr.
Bidlake's murder, it is more likely to be to her interest to keep
them to herself, than to give them away to the police free gratis
and for nothing.  Do you follow me?"

"Precisely, sir."

"That being so," Francis continued, "I am going to make a
proposition to you for what it is worth.  Where were you going
when I met you this morning, Shopland?"

"To call upon you in Clarges Street, sir."

"What for?"

"I was going to ask you if you would be so kind as to call upon
Miss Daisy Hyslop, sir."

Francis smiled.

"Great minds," he murmured.  "I will see the young lady this
afternoon, Shopland."

The detective raised his hat.  They had reached the spot where
his companion turned off by the Horse Guards Parade.

"I may hope to hear from you, then, sir?"

"Within the course of a day or two, perhaps earlier," Francis
promised.


Francis continued his walk along the Embankment to his chambers
in the Temple.  He glanced in the outer office as he passed to
his consulting room.

"Anything fresh, Angrave?" he asked his head-clerk.

"Nothing whatever, sir," was the quiet reply.

He passed on to his own den--a bare room with long windows
looking out over the gardens.  He glanced at the two or three
letters which lay on his desk, none of them of the least
interest, and leaning back in his chair commenced to fill his
pipe.  There was a knock at the door.  Fawsitt, a young beginner
at the bar, in whom he had taken some interest and who deviled
for him, presented himself.

"Can I have a word with you, Mr. Ledsam?" he asked.

"By all means," was the prompt response.  "Sit down."

Fawsitt seated himself on the other side of the table.  He had a
long, thin face, dark, narrow eyes, unwholesome complexion, a
slightly hooked nose, and teeth discoloured through constant
smoking.  His fingers, too, bore the tell-tale yellow stains.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, "I think, with your permission, I should
like to leave at the end of my next three months."

Francis glanced across at him.

"Sorry to hear that, Fawsitt.  Are you going to work for any one
else?"

"I haven't made arrangements yet, sir," the young man replied.
"I thought of offering myself to Mr. Barnes."

"Why do you want to leave me?" Francis asked.

"There isn't enough for me to do, sir."

Francis lit his pipe.

"It's probably just a lull, Fawsitt," he remarked.

"I don't think so, sir."

"The devil!  You've been gossiping with some of these solicitors'
clerks, Fawsitt."

"I shouldn't call it gossiping, sir.  I am always interested to
hear anything that may concern our--my future.  I have reason to
believe, sir, that we are being passed over for briefs."

"The reason being?"

"One can't pick and choose, sir.  One shouldn't, anyway."

Francis smiled.

"You evidently don't approve of any measure of personal choice as
to the work which one takes up."

"Certainly I do not, sir, in our profession.  The only brief I
would refuse would be a losing or an ill-paid one.  I don't
conceive it to be our business to prejudge a case."

"I see," Francis murmured.  "Go on, Fawsitt."

"There's a rumour about," the young man continued, "that you are
only going to plead where the chances are that your client is
innocent."

"There's some truth in that," Francis admitted.

"If I could leave a little before the three months, sir, I should
be glad," Fawsitt said.  "I look at the matter from an entirely
different point of view."

"You shall leave when you like, of course, Fawsitt, but tell me
what that point of view is?"

"Just this, sir.  The simplest-minded idiot who ever stammered
through his address, can get an innocent prisoner off if he knows
enough of the facts and the law.  To my mind, the real triumph in
our profession is to be able to unwind the meshes of damning
facts and force a verdict for an indubitably guilty client."

"How does the moral side of that appeal to you?" his senior
enquired.

"I didn't become a barrister to study morals, or even to consider
them," was the somewhat caustic reply.  "When once a brief is in
my mind, it is a matter of brain, cunning and resource.  The
guiltier a man, the greater the success if you can get him off."

"And turn him loose again upon Society?"

"It isn't our job to consider that, sir.  The moral question is
only confusing in the matter.  Our job is to make use of the law
for the benefit of our client.  That's what we're paid for.
That's the measure of our success or failure."

Francis nodded.

"Very reasonably put, Fawsitt," he conceded.  "I'll give you a
letter to Barnes whenever you like."

"I should be glad if you would do so, sir," the young man said.
"I'm only wasting my time here ...."

Francis wrote a letter of recommendation to Barnes, the great K.C.,
considered a stray brief which had found its way in, and strolled
up towards the Milan as the hour approached luncheon-time.  In the
American bar of that palatial hotel he found the young man he was
looking for--a flaxen-haired youth who was seated upon one of the
small tables, with his feet upon a chair, laying down the law to
a little group of acquaintances.  He greeted Francis cordially
but without that due measure of respect which nineteen should
accord to thirty-five.

"Cheerio, my elderly relative!" he exclaimed.  "Have a cocktail."

Francis nodded assent.

"Come into this corner with me for a moment, Charles," he
invited.  "I have a word for your ear."

The young man rose and sat by his uncle's side on a settee.

"In my declining years," the latter began, "I find myself
reverting to the follies of youth.  I require a letter of
introduction from you to a young lady of your acquaintance."

"The devil!  Not one of my own special little pets, I hope?"

"Her name is Miss Daisy Hyslop," Francis announced.

Lord Charles Southover pursed his lips and whistled.  He glanced
at Francis sideways.

"Is this the beginning of a campaign amongst the butterflies," he
enquired, "because, if so, I feel it my duty, uncle, to address
to you a few words of solemn warning.  Miss Daisy Hyslop is hot
stuff."

"Look here, young fellow," Francis said equably, "I don't know
what the state of your exchequer is--"

"I owe you forty," Lord Charles interrupted.  "Spring another
tenner, make it fifty, that is, and the letter of introduction I
will write for you will bring tears of gratitude to your eyes."

"I'll spring the tenner," Francis promised, "but you'll write
just what I tell you--no more and no less."

"Anything extra for keeping mum at home?" the young man ventured
tentatively.

"You're a nice sort of nephew to have!" Francis declared.
"Abandon these futile attempts at blackmail and just come this
way to the writing-table."

"You've got the tenner with you?" the young man asked anxiously.

Francis produced a well-filled pocketbook.  His nephew led the
way to a writing-table, lit a cigarette which he stuck into the
corner of his mouth, and in painstaking fashion wrote the few
lines which Francis dictated.  The ten pounds changed hands.

"Have one with me for luck?" the young man invited brightly.
"No?  Perhaps you're right," he added, in valedictory fashion.
"You'd better keep your head clear for Daisy!"




CHAPTER XI


Miss Daisy Hyslop received Francis that afternoon, in the
sitting-room of her little suite at the Milan.  Her welcoming
smile was plaintive and a little subdued, her manner undeniably
gracious.  She was dressed in black, a wonderful background for
her really gorgeous hair, and her deportment indicated a recent
loss.

"How nice of you to come and see me," she murmured, with a
lingering touch of the fingers.  "Do take that easy-chair,
please, and sit down and talk to me.  Your roses were beautiful,
but whatever made you send them to me?"

"Impulse," he answered.

She laughed softly.

"Then please yield to such impulses as often as you feel them,"
she begged.  "I adore flowers.  Just now, too," she added, with a
little sigh, "anything is welcome which helps to keep my mind off
my own affairs."

"It was very good of you to let me come," he declared.  "I can
quite understand that you don't feel like seeing many people just
now."

Francis' manner, although deferential and courteous, had
nevertheless some quality of aloofness in it to which she was
unused and which she was quick to recognise.  The smile, faded
from her face.  She seemed suddenly not quite so young.

"Haven't I seen you before somewhere quite lately?" she asked, a
little sharply.

"You saw me at Soto's, the night that Victor Bidlake was
murdered," he reminded her.  "I stood quite close to you both
while you were waiting for your taxi."

The animation evoked by this call from a presumably new admirer,
suddenly left her.  She became nervous and constrained.  She
glanced again at his card.

"Don't tell me," she begged, "that you have come to ask me any
questions about that night!  I simply could not bear it.  The
police have been here twice, and I had nothing to tell them,
absolutely nothing."

"Quite right," he assented soothingly.  "Police have such a
clumsy way of expecting valuable information for nothing.  I'm
always glad to hear of their being disappointed."

She studied her visitor for a moment carefully.  Then she turned
to the table by her side, picked up a note and read it through.

"Lord Southover tells me here," she said, "that you are just a
pal of his who wants to make my acquaintance.  He doesn't say
why."

"Is that necessary?" Francis asked good-naturedly.

She moved in her chair a little nervously, crossing and
uncrossing her legs more than once.  Her white silk stockings
underneath her black skirt were exceedingly effective, a fact of
which she never lost consciousness, although at that moment she
was scarcely inspired to play the coquette.

"I'd like to think it wasn't," she admitted frankly.

"I've seen you repeatedly upon the stage," he told her, "and,
though musical comedy is rather out of my line, I have always
admired you immensely."

She studied him once more almost wistfully.

"You look very nice," she acknowledged, "but you don't look at
all the kind of man who admires girls who do the sort of rubbish
I do on the stage."

"What do I look like?" he asked, smiling.

"A man with a purpose," she answered.

"I begin to think," he ventured, "that we shall get on.  You are
really a very astute young lady."

"You are quite sure you're not one of these amateur detectives
one reads about?" she demanded.

"Certainly not," he assured her.  "I will confess that I am
interested in Victor Bidlake's death, and I should like to
discover the truth about it, but I have a reason for that which I
may tell you some day.  It has nothing whatever to do with the
young man himself.  To the best of my belief, I never saw or
heard of him before in my life.  My interest lies with another
person.  You have lost a great friend, I know.  If you felt
disposed to tell me the whole story,  it might make such a
difference."

She sighed.  Her confidence was returning--also her self-pity.
The latter at once betrayed itself.

"You see," she confided, "Victor and I were engaged to be
married, so naturally I let him help me a little.  I shan't be
able to stay on here now.  They are bothering me about their bill
already," she added, with a side-glance at an envelope which
stood on a table by her side.

He drew a little nearer to her.

"Miss Hyslop--" he began.

"Daisy," she interrupted.

"Miss Daisy Hyslop, then," he continued, smiling, "I suggested
just now that I did not want to come and bother you for
information without any return.  If I can be of any assistance to
you in that matter," he added, glancing towards the envelope, "I
shall be very pleased."

She sighed gratefully.

"Just till Victor's people return to town," she said.  "I know
that they mean to do something for me."

"How much?" he asked.

"Two hundred pounds would keep me going," she told him.

He wrote out a cheque.  Miss Hyslop drew a sigh of relief as she
laid it on one side with the envelope.  Then she swung round in
her chair to face him where he sat at the writing-table.

"I am afraid you will think that what I have to tell is very
insignificant," she confessed.  "Victor was one of those boys who
always fancied themselves bored.  He was bored with polo, bored
with motoring, bored with the country and bored with town.  Then
quite suddenly during the last few weeks he seemed changed.  All
that he would tell me was that he had found a new interest in
life.  I don't know what it was but I don't think it was a nice
one.  He seemed to drop all his old friends, too, and go about
with a new set altogether--not a nice set at all.  He used to
stay out all night, and he quite gave up going to dances and
places where he could take me.  Once or twice he came here in
the afternoon, dead beat, without having been to bed at all,
and before he could say half-a-dozen words he was asleep in my
easy-chair.  He used to mutter such horrible things that I had
to wake him up."

"Was he ever short of money?" Francis asked.

She shook her head.

"Not seriously," she answered.  "He was quite well-off, besides
what his people allowed him.  I was going to have a wonderful
settlement as soon as our engagement was announced.  However, to
go on with what I was telling you, the very night before--it
happened--he came in to see me, looking like nothing on earth.
He cried like a baby, behaved like a lunatic, and called himself
all manner of names.  He had had a great deal too much to drink,
and I gathered that he had seen something horrible.  It was then
he asked me to dine with him the next night, and told me that he
was going to break altogether with his new friends.  Something in
connection with them seemed to have given him a terrible fright."

Francis nodded.  He had the tact to abandon his curiosity at this
precise point.

"The old story," he declared, "bad company and rotten habits.  I
suppose some one got to know that the young man usually carried a
great deal of money about with him."

"It was so foolish of him," she assented eagerly: "I warned him
about it so often.  The police won't listen to it but I am
absolutely certain that he was robbed.  I noticed when he paid
the bill that he had a great wad of bank-notes which were never
discovered afterwards."

Francis rose to his feet.

"What are you doing to-night?" he enquired.

"Nothing," she acknowledged eagerly.

"Then let's dine somewhere and see the show at the Frivolity," he
suggested.

"You dear man!" she assented with enthusiasm.  "The one thing I
wanted to do, and the one person I wanted to do it with."




CHAPTER XII


It was after leaving Miss Daisy Hyslop's flat that the event to
which Francis Ledsam had been looking forward more than anything
else in the world, happened.  It came about entirely by chance.
There were no taxis in the Strand.  Francis himself had finished
work for the day, and feeling disinclined for his usual rubber of
bridge, he strolled homewards along the Mall.  At the corner of
Green Park, he came face to face with the woman who for the last
few months had scarcely been out of his thoughts.  Even in that
first moment he realised to his pain that she would have avoided
him if she could.  They met, however, where the path narrowed,
and he left her no chance to avoid him.  That curious impulse of
conventionality which opens a conversation always with cut and
dried banalities, saved them perhaps from a certain amount of
embarrassment.  Without any conscious suggestion, they found
themselves walking side by side.

"I have been wanting to see you very much indeed," he said.  "I
even went so far as to wonder whether I dared call."

"Why should you?" she asked.  "Our acquaintance began and ended
in tragedy.  There is scarcely any purpose in carrying it
further."

He looked at her for a moment before replying.  She was wearing
black, but scarcely the black of a woman who sorrows.  She was
still frigidly beautiful, redolent, in all the details of her
toilette, of that almost negative perfection which he had learnt
to expect from her.  She suggested to him still that same sense
of aloofness from the actualities of life.

"I prefer not to believe that it is ended," he protested.  "Have
you so many friends that you have no room for one who has never
consciously done you any harm?"

She looked at him with some faint curiosity in her immobile
features.

"Harm?  No!  On the contrary, I suppose I ought to thank you for
your evidence at the inquest."

"Some part of it was the truth," he replied.

"I suppose so," she admitted drily.  "You told it very cleverly."

He looked her in the eyes.

"My profession helped me to be a good witness," he said.  "As for
the gist of my evidence, that was between my conscience and
myself."

"Your conscience?" she repeated.  "Are there really men who
possess such things?"

"I hope you will discover that for yourself some day," he
answered.  "Tell me your plans?  Where are you living?"

"For the present with my father in Curzon Street."

"With Sir Timothy Brast?"

She assented.

"You know him?" she asked indifferently.

"Very slightly," Francis replied.  "We talked together, some
nights ago, at Soto's Restaurant.  I am afraid that I did not
make a very favourable impression upon him.  I gathered, too,
that he has somewhat eccentric tastes."

"I do not see a great deal of my father," she said.  "We met, a
few months ago, for the first time since my marriage, and things
have been a little difficult between us--just at first.  He
really scarcely ever puts in an appearance at Curzon Street.  I
dare say you have heard that he makes a hobby of an amazing
country house which he has down the river."

"The Walled House?" he ventured.

She nodded.

"I see you have heard of it.  All London, they tell me, gossips
about the entertainments there."

"Are they really so wonderful?" he asked.

"I have never been to one," she replied.  "As a matter of fact, I
have spent scarcely any time in England since my marriage.  My
husband, as I remember he told you, was fond of travelling."

Notwithstanding the warm spring air he was conscious of a certain
chilliness.  Her level, indifferent tone seemed to him almost
abnormally callous.  A horrible realisation flashed for a moment
in his brain.  She was speaking of the man whom she had killed!

"Your father overheard a remark of mine," Francis told her.  "I
was at Soto's with a friend--Andrew Wilmore, the novelist--and
to tell you the truth we were speaking of the shock I experienced
when I realised that I had been devoting every effort of which I
was capable, to saving the life of--shall we say a criminal?
Your father heard me say, in rather a flamboyant manner, perhaps,
that in future I declared war against all crime and all
criminals."

She smiled very faintly, a smile which had in it no single
element of joy or humour.

"I can quite understand my father intervening," she said.  "He
poses as being rather a patron of artistically-perpetrated crime.
Sue is his favourite author, and I believe that he has exceedingly
grim ideas as to duelling and fighting generally.  He was in prison
once for six months at New Orleans for killing a man who insulted
my mother.  Nothing in the world would ever have convinced him that
he had not done a perfectly legitimate thing."

"I am expecting to find him quite an interesting study, when I
know him better," Francis pronounced.  "My only fear is that he
will count me an unfriendly person and refuse to have anything to
do with me."

"I am not at all sure," she said indifferently, "that it would
not be very much better for you if he did."

"I cannot admit that," he answered, smiling.  "I think that our
paths in life are too far apart for either of us to influence the
other.  You don't share his tastes, do you?"

"Which ones?" she asked, after a moment's silence.

"Well, boxing for one," he replied.  "They tell me that he is the
greatest living patron of the ring, both here and in America."

"I have never been to a fight in my life," she confessed.  "I
hope that I never may."

"I can't go so far as that," he declared, "but boxing isn't
altogether one of my hobbies.  Can't we leave your father and
his tastes alone for the present?  I would rather talk about
--ourselves.  Tell me what you care about most in life?"

"Nothing," she answered listlessly.

"But that is only a phase," he persisted.  "You have had terrible
trials, I know, and they must have affected your outlook on life,
but you are still young, and while one is young life is always
worth having."

"I thought so once," she assented.  "I don't now."

"But there must be--there will be compensations," he assured her.
"I know that just now you are suffering from the reaction--after
all you have gone through.  The memory of that will pass."

"The memory of what I have gone through will never pass," she
answered.

There was a moment's intense silence, a silence pregnant with
reminiscent drama.  The little room rose up before his memory
--the woman's hopeless, hating eyes, the quivering thread of steel,
the dead man's mocking words.  He seemed at that moment to see
into the recesses of her mind.  Was it remorse that troubled
her, he wondered?  Did she lack strength to realise that in that
half-hour at the inquest he had placed on record for ever his
judgment of her deed?  Even to think of it now was morbid.
Although he would never have confessed it even to himself, there
was growing daily in his mind some idea of reward.  She had never
thanked him--he hoped that she never would--but he had surely a
right to claim some measure of her thoughts, some light place in
her life.

"Please look at me," he begged, a little abruptly.

She turned her head in some surprise.  Francis was almost
handsome in the clear Spring sunlight, his face alight with
animation, his deep-set grey eyes full of amused yet anxious
solicitude.  Even as she appreciated these things and became
dimly conscious of his eager interest, her perturbation seemed to
grow.

"Well?" she ventured.

"Do I look like a person who knew what he was talking about?" he
asked.

"On the whole, I should say that you did," she admitted.

"Very well, then," he went on cheerfully, "believe me when I say
that the shadow which depresses you all the time now will pass.
I say this confidently," he added, his voice softening, "because
I hope to be allowed to help.  Haven't you guessed that I am very
glad indeed to see you again?"

She came to a sudden standstill.  They had just passed through
Lansdowne Passage and were in the quiet end of Curzon Street.

"But you must not talk to me like that!" she expostulated.

"Why not?" he demanded.  "We have met under strange and untoward
circumstances, but are you so very different from other women?"

For a single moment she seemed infinitely more human, startled, a
little nervous, exquisitely sympathetic to an amazing and
unexpected impression.  She seemed to look with glad but
terrified eyes towards the vision of possible things--and then to
realise that it was but a trick of the fancy and to come
shivering back to the world of actualities.

"I am very different," she said quietly.  "I have lived my life.
What I lack in years has been made up to me in horror.  I have no
desire now but to get rid of this aftermath of years as smoothly
and quickly as possible.  I do not wish any man, Mr. Ledsam, to
talk to me as you are doing."

"You will not accept my friendship?"

"It is impossible," she replied.

"May I be allowed to call upon you?" he went on, doggedly.

"I do not receive visitors," she answered.

They were walking slowly up Curzon Street now.  She had given him
every opportunity to leave her, opportunities to which he was
persistently blind.  Her obstinacy had been a shock to him.

"I am sorry," he said, "but I cannot accept my dismissal like
this.  I shall appeal to your father.  However much he may
dislike me, he has at least common-sense."

She looked at him with a touch of the old horror in her
coldly-questioning eyes.

"In your way you have been kind to me," she admitted.  "Let me in
return give you a word of advice.  Let me beg you to have nothing
whatever to do with my father, in friendship or in enmity.
Either might be equally disastrous.  Either, in the long run, is
likely to cost you dear."

"If that is your opinion of your father, why do you live with
him?" he asked.

She had become entirely callous again.  Her smile, with its
mocking quality, reminded him for a moment of the man whom they
were discussing.

"Because I am a luxury and comfort-loving parasite," she answered
deliberately, "because my father gladly pays my accounts at
Lucille and Worth and Reville, because I have never learnt to do
without things.  And please remember this.  My father, so far as
I am concerned, has no faults.  He is a generous and courteous
companion.  Nevertheless, number 70 b, Curzon Street is no place
for people who desire to lead normal lives."

And with that she was gone.  Her gesture of dismissal was so
complete and final that he had no courage for further argument.
He had lost her almost as soon as he had found her.




CHAPTER XIII


Four men were discussing the verdict at the adjourned inquest
upon Victor Bidlake, at Soto's American Bar about a fortnight
later.  They were Robert Fairfax, a young actor in musical
comedy, Peter Jacks, a cinema producer, Gerald Morse, a dress
designer, and Sidney Voss, a musical composer and librettist, all
habitues of the place and members of the little circle towards
which the dead man had seemed, during the last few weeks of his
life, to have become attracted.  At a table a short distance
away, Francis Ledsam was seated with a cocktail and a dish of
almonds before him.  He seemed to be studying an evening paper
and to be taking but the scantiest notice of the conversation at
the bar.

"It just shows," Peter Jacks declared, "that crime is the easiest
game in the world.  Given a reasonable amount of intelligence,
and a murderer's business is about as simple as a sandwich-man's."

"The police," Gerald Morse, a pale-faced, anaemic-looking youth,
declared, "rely upon two things, circumstantial evidence and
motive.  In the present case there is no circumstantial evidence,
and as to motive, poor old Victor was too big a fool to have an
enemy in the world."

Sidney Voss, who was up for the Sheridan Club and had once been
there, glanced respectfully across at Francis.

"You ought to know something about crime and criminals, Mr.
Ledsam," he said.  "Have you any theory about the affair?"

Francis set down the glass from which he had been drinking, and,
folding up the evening paper, laid it by the side of him.

"As a matter of fact," he answered calmly, "I have."

The few words, simply spoken, yet in their way charged with
menace, thrilled through the little room.  Fairfax swung round
upon his stool, a tall, aggressive-looking youth whose good-looks
were half eaten up with dissipation.  His eyes were unnaturally
bright, the cloudy remains in his glass indicated absinthe.

"Listen, you fellows!" he exclaimed.  "Mr. Francis Ledsam, the
great criminal barrister, is going to solve the mystery of poor
old Victor's death for us!"

The three other young men all turned around from the bar.  Their
eyes and whole attention seemed rivetted upon Francis.  No one
seemed to notice the newcomer who passed quietly to a chair in
the background, although he was a person of some note and
interest to all of them.  Imperturbable and immaculate as ever,
Sir Timothy Brast smiled amiably upon the little gathering,
summoned a waiter and ordered a Dry Martini.

"I can scarcely promise to do that," Francis said slowly, his
eyes resting for a second or two upon each of the four faces.
"Exact solutions are a little out of my line.  I think I can
promise to give you a shock, though, if you're strong enough to
stand it."

There was another of those curiously charged silences.  The
bartender paused with the cocktail shaker still in his hand.
Voss began to beat nervously upon the counter with his knuckles.

"We can stand anything but suspense," he declared.  "Get on with
your shock-giving."

"I believe that the person responsible for the death of Victor
Bidlake is in this room at the present moment," Francis declared.

Again the silence, curious, tense and dramatic.  Little Jimmy,
the bartender, who had leaned forward to listen, stood with his
mouth slightly open and the cocktail-shaker which was in his hand
leaked drops upon the counter.  The first conscious impulse of
everybody seemed to be to glance suspiciously around the room.
The four young men at the bar, Jimmy and one waiter, Francis and
Sir Timothy Brast, were its only occupants.

"I say, you know, that's a bit thick, isn't it?" Sidney Voss
stammered at last.  "I wasn't in the place at all, I was in
Manchester, but it's a bit rough on these other chaps, Victor's
pals."

"I was dining at the Cafe Royal," Jacks declared, loudly.

Morse drew a little breath.

"Every one knows that I was at Brighton," he muttered.

"I went home directly the bar here closed," Jimmy said, in a
still dazed tone.  "I heard nothing about it till the next
morning."

"Alibis by the bushel," Fairfax laughed harshly.  "As for me, I
was doing my show--every one knows that.  I was never in the
place at all."

"The murder was not committed in the place," Francis commented
calmly.

Fairfax slid off his stool.  A spot of colour blazed in his pale
cheeks, the glass which he was holding snapped in his fingers.
He seemed suddenly possessed.

"I say, what the hell are you getting at?" he cried.  "Are you
accusing me--or any of us Victor's pals?"

"I accuse no one," Francis replied, unperturbed.  "You invited a
statement from me and I made it."

Sir Timothy Brast rose from his place and made his way to the end
of the counter, next to Fairfax and nearest Francis.  He
addressed the former.  There was an inscrutable smile upon his
lips, his manner was reassuring.

"Young gentleman," he begged, "pray do not disturb yourself.  I
will answer for it that neither you nor any of your friends are
the objects of Mr. Leadsam's suspicion.  Without a doubt, it is I
to whom his somewhat bold statement refers."

They all stared at him, immersed in another crisis, bereft of
speech.  He tapped a cigarette upon the counter and lit it.
Fairfax, whose glass had just been refilled by the bartender, was
still ghastly pale, shaking with nervousness and breathing
hoarsely.  Francis, tense and alert in his chair, watched the
speaker but said nothing.

"You see," Sir Timothy continued, addressing himself to the four
young men at the bar, "I happen to have two special aversions in
life.  One is sweet champagne and the other amateur detectives
--their stories, their methods and everything about them.  I
chanced to sit upstairs in the restaurant, within hearing of Mr.
Ledsam and his friend Mr. Wilmore, the novelist, the other night,
and I heard Mr. Ledsam, very much to my chagrin, announce his
intention of abandoning a career in which he has, if he will
allow me to say so,"--with a courteous bow to Francis--"attained
considerable distinction, to indulge in the moth-eaten,
flamboyant and melodramatic antics of the lesser Sherlock Holmes.
I fear that I could not resist the opportunity of--I think you
young men call it--pulling his leg."

Every one was listening intently, including Shopland, who had
just drifted into the room and subsided into a chair near
Francis.

"I moved my place, therefore," Sir Timothy continued, "and I
whispered in Mr. Ledsam's ear some rodomontade to the effect that
if he were planning to be the giant crime-detector of the world,
I was by ambition the arch-criminal--or words to that effect.  And
to give emphasis to my words, I wound up by prophesying a crime
in the immediate vicinity of the place within a few hours."

"A somewhat significant prophecy, under the circumstances,"
Francis remarked, reaching out for a dish of salted almonds and
drawing them towards him.

Sir Timothy shrugged his shoulders deprecatingly.

"I will confess," he admitted, "that I had not in my mind an
affair of such dimensions.  My harmless remark, however, has
produced cataclysmic effects.  The conversation to which I refer
took place on the night of young Bidlake's murder, and Mr.
Ledsam, with my somewhat, I confess, bombastic words in his
memory, has pitched upon me as the bloodthirsty murderer."

"Hold on for a moment, sir," Peter Jacks begged, wiping the
perspiration from his forehead.  "We've got to have another drink
quick.  Poor old Bobby here looks knocked all of a heap, and I'm
kind of jumpy myself.  You'll join us, sir?"

"I thank you," was the courteous reply.  "I do not as a rule
indulge to the extent of more than one cocktail, but I will
recognise the present as an exceptional occasion.  To continue,
then," he went on, after the glasses had been filled, "I have
during the last few weeks experienced the ceaseless and lynx-eyed
watch of Mr. Ledsam and presumably his myrmidons.  I do not know
whether you are all acquainted with my name, but in case you are
not, let me introduce myself.  I am Sir Timothy Brast, Chairman,
as I dare say you know, of the United Transvaal Gold Mines,
Chairman, also, of two of the principal hospitals in London, Vice
President of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, a patron of sport in many forms, a traveller in many
countries, and a recipient of the honour of knighthood from His
Majesty, in recognition of my services for various philanthropic
works.  These facts, however, have availed me nothing now that
the bungling amateur investigator into crime has pointed the
finger of suspicion towards me.  My servants and neighbours have
alike been plagued to death with cunning questions as to my life
and habits.  I have been watched in the streets and watched in my
harmless amusements.  My simple life has been peered into from
every perspective and direction.  In short, I am suspect.  Mr.
Ledsam's terrifying statement a few minutes ago was directed
towards me and me only."

There were murmurs of sympathy from the four young men, who each
in his own fashion appeared to derive consolation from Sir
Timothy's frank and somewhat caustic statement.  Francis, who had
listened unmoved to this flow of words, glanced towards the door
behind which dark figures seemed to be looming.

"That is all you have to say, Sir Timothy?" he asked politely.

"For the present, yes," was the guarded reply.  "I trust that I
have succeeded in setting these young gentlemen's minds at ease."

"There is one of them," Francis said gravely, "whose mind not
even your soothing words could lighten."

Shopland had risen unobtrusively to his feet.  He laid his hand
suddenly on Fairfax's shoulder and whispered in his ear.
Fairfax, after his first start, seemed cool enough.  He stretched
out his hand towards the glass which as yet he had not touched;
covered it with his fingers for a moment and drained its
contents.  The gently sarcastic smile left Sir Timothy's lips.
His eyebrows met in a quick frown, his eyes glittered.

"What is the meaning of this?" he demanded sharply.

A policeman in plain clothes had advanced from the door.  The
manager hovered in the background.  Shopland saw that all was
well.

"It means," he announced, "that I have just arrested Mr. Robert
Fairfax here on a charge of wilful murder.  There is a way out
through the kitchens, I believe.  Take his other arm, Holmes.
Now, gentlemen, if you please."

There were a few bewildered exclamations--then a dramatic hush.
Fairfax had fallen forward on his stool.  He seemed to have
relapsed into a comatose state.  Every scrap of colour was
drained from his sallow cheeks, his eyes were covered with a film
and he was breathing heavily.  The detective snatched up the
glass from which the young man had been drinking, and smelt it.

"I saw him drop a tablet in just now," Jimmy faltered.  "I
thought it was one of the digestion pills he uses sometimes."

Shopland and the policeman placed their hands underneath the
armpits of the unconscious man.

"He's done, sir," the former whispered to Francis.  "We'll try
and get him to the station if we can."




CHAPTER XIV


The greatest tragedies in the world, provided they happen to
other people, have singularly little effect upon the externals of
our own lives.  There was certainly not a soul in Soto's that
night who did not know that Bobby Fairfax had been arrested in
the bar below for the murder of Victor Bidlake, had taken poison
and died on the way to the police station.  Yet the same number
of dinners were ordered and eaten, the same quantity of wine
drunk.  The management considered that they had shown marvellous
delicacy of feeling by restraining the orchestra from their usual
musical gymnastics until after the service of dinner.
Conversation, in consequence, buzzed louder than ever.  One
speculation in particular absorbed the attention of every single
person in the room--why had Bobby Fairfax, at the zenith of a
very successful career, risked the gallows and actually accepted
death for the sake of killing Victor Bidlake, a young man with
whom, so far as anybody knew, he had no cause of quarrel
whatever?  There were many theories, many people who knew the
real facts and whispered them into a neighbour's ear, only to
have them contradicted a few moments later.  Yet, curiously
enough, the two men who knew most about it were the two most
silent men in the room, for each was dining alone.  Francis, who
had remained only in the hope that something of the sort might
happen, was conscious of a queer sense of excitement when, with
the service of coffee, Sir Timothy, glass in hand, moved up from
a table lower down and with a word of apology took the vacant
place by his side.  It was what he had desired, and yet he felt a
thrill almost of fear at Sir Timothy's murmured words.  He felt
that he was in the company of one who, if not an enemy, at any
rate had no friendly feeling towards him.

"My congratulations, Mr. Ledsam," Sir Timothy said quietly.  "You
appear to have started your career with a success."

"Only a partial one," Francis acknowledged, "and as a matter of
fact I deny that I have started in any new career.  It was easy
enough to make use of a fluke and direct the intelligence of
others towards the right person, but when the real significance
of the thing still eludes you, one can scarcely claim a triumph."

Sir Timothy gently knocked the ash from the very fine cigar which
he was smoking.

"Still, your groundwork was good," he observed.

Francis shrugged his shoulders.

"That," he admitted, "was due to chance."

"Shall we exchange notes?" Sir Timothy suggested gently.  "It
might be interesting."

"As you will," Francis assented.  "There is no particular secret
in the way I stumbled upon the truth.  I was dining here that
night, as you know, with Andrew Wilmore, and while he was
ordering the dinner and talking to some friends, I went down to
the American Bar to have a cocktail.  Miss Daisy Hyslop and
Fairfax were seated there alone and talking confidentially.
Fairfax was insisting that Miss Hyslop should do something which
puzzled her.  She consented reluctantly, and Fairfax then hurried
off to the theatre.  Later on, Miss Hyslop and the unfortunate
young man occupied a table close to ours, and I happened to
notice that she made a point of leaving the restaurant at a
particular time.  While they were waiting in the vestibule she
grew very impatient.  I was standing behind them and I saw her
glance at the clock just before she insisted upon her companion's
going out himself to look for a taxicab.  Ergo, one enquires at
Fairfax's theatre.  For that exact three-quarters of an hour he
is off the stage.  At that point my interest in the matter
ceases.  Scotland Yard was quite capable of the rest."

"Disappointing," Sir Timothy murmured.  "I thought at first that
you were over-modest.  I find that I was mistaken.  It was chance
alone which set you on the right track."

"Well, there is my story, at any rate," Francis declared.  "With
how much of your knowledge of the affair are you going to indulge
me?"

Sir Timothy slowly revolved his brandy glass.

"Well," he said, "I will tell you this.  The two young men
concerned, Bidlake and Fairfax, were both guests of mine recently
at my country house.  They had discovered for one another a very
fierce and reasonable antipathy.  With that recurrence to
primitivism with which I have always been a hearty sympathiser,
they agreed, instead of going round their little world making
sneering remarks about each other, to fight it out."

"At your suggestion, I presume?" Francis interposed.

"Precisely," Sir Timothy assented.  "I recommended that course,
and I offered them facilities for bringing the matter to a
crisis.  The fight, indeed, was to have come off the day after
the unfortunate episode which anticipated it."

"Do you mean to tell me that you knew--" Francis began.

Sir Timothy checked him quietly but effectively.

"I knew nothing," he said, "except this.  They were neither of
them young men of much stomach, and I knew that the one who was
the greater coward would probably try to anticipate the matter by
attacking the other first if he could.  I knew that Fairfax was
the greater coward--not that there was much to choose between
them--and I also knew that he was the injured person.  That is
really all there is about it.  My somewhat theatrical statement
to you was based upon probability, and not upon any certain
foreknowledge.  As you see, it came off."

"And the cause of their quarrel?" Francis asked.

"There might have been a hundred reasons," Sir Timothy observed.
"As a matter of fact, it was the eternal one.  There is no need
to mention a woman's name, so we will let it go at that."

There was a moment's silence--a strange, unforgettable moment for
Francis Ledsam, who seemed by some curious trick of the
imagination to have been carried away into an impossible and
grotesque world.  The hum of eager conversation, the popping of
corks, the little trills of feminine laughter, all blended into
one sensual and not unmusical chorus, seemed to fade from his
ears.  He fancied himself in some subterranean place of vast
dimensions, through the grim galleries of which men and women
with evil faces crept like animals.  And towering above them,
unreal in size, his scornful face an epitome of sin, the knout
which he wielded symbolical and ghastly, driving his motley flock
with the leer of the evil shepherd, was the man from whom he had
already learnt to recoil with horror.  The picture came and went
in a flash.  Francis found himself accepting a courteously
offered cigar from his companion.

"You see, the story is very much like many others," Sir Timothy
murmured, as he lit a fresh Cigar himself and leaned back with
the obvious enjoyment of the cultivated smoker.  "In every
country of the world, the animal world as well as the human
world, the male resents his female being taken from him.
Directly he ceases to resent it, he becomes degenerate.  Surely
you must agree with me, Mr. Leddam?"

"It comes to this, then," Francis pronounced deliberately, "that
you stage-managed the whole affair."

Sir Timothy smiled.

"It is my belief, Mr. Ledsam," he said, "that you grow more and
more intelligent every hour."

Sir Timothy glanced presently at his thin gold watch and put it
back in his pocket regretfully.

"Alas!" he sighed, "I fear that I must tear myself away.  I
particularly want to hear the last act of 'Louise.'  The new
Frenchwoman sings, and my daughter is alone.  You will excuse
me."

Francis nodded silently.  His companion's careless words had
brought a sudden dazzling vision into his mind.  Sir Timothy
scrawled his name at the foot of his bill.

"It is one of my axioms in life, Mr. Ledsam," he continued, "that
there is more pleasure to be derived from the society of one's
enemies than one's friends.  If I thought you sufficiently
educated in the outside ways of the world to appreciate this, I
would ask if you cared to accompany me?"

Francis did not hesitate for a moment.

"Sir Timothy," he said, "I have the greatest detestation for you,
and I am firmly convinced that you represent all the things in
life abhorrent to me.  On the other hand, I should very much like
to hear the last act of 'Louise,' and it would give me the
greatest pleasure to meet your daughter.  So long as there is no
misunderstanding."

Sir Timothy laughed.

"Come," he said, "we will get our hats.  I am becoming more and
more grateful to you, Mr. Ledsam.  You are supplying something in
my life which I have lacked.  You appeal alike to my sense of
humour and my imagination.  We will visit the opera together."




CHAPTER XV


The two men left Soto's together, very much in the fashion of two
ordinary acquaintances sallying out to spend the evening
together.  Sir Timothy's Rolls-Royce limousine was in attendance,
and in a few minutes they were threading the purlieus of Covent
Garden.  It was here that an incident occurred which afforded
Francis considerable food for thought during the next few days.

It was a Friday night, and one or two waggons laden with
vegetable produce were already threading their way through the
difficult thoroughfares.  Suddenly Sir Timothy, who was looking
out of the window, pressed the button of the car, which was at
once brought to a standstill.  Before the footman could reach
the door Sir Timothy was out in the street.  For the first
time Francis saw him angry.  His eyes were blazing.  His voice
--Francis had followed him at once into the street--shook with
passion.  His hand had fallen heavily upon the shoulder of a huge
carter, who, with whip in hand, was belabouring a thin scarecrow
of a horse.

"What the devil are you doing?" Sir Timothy demanded.

The man stared at his questioner, and the instinctive antagonism
of race vibrated in his truculent reply.  The carter was a
beery-faced, untidy-looking brute, but powerfully built and with
huge shoulders.  Sir Timothy, straight as a dart, without overcoat
or any covering to his thin evening clothes, looked like a stripling
in front of him.

"I'm whippin' 'er, if yer want to know," was the carter's reply.
"I've got to get up the 'ill, 'aven't I?  Garn and mind yer own
business!"

"This is my business," Sir Timothy declared, laying his hand upon
the neck of the horse.  "I am an official of the Society for the
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals.  You are laying yourself open
to a fine for your treatment of this poor brute."

"I'll lay myself open for a fine for the treatment of something
else, if you don't quid 'old of my 'oss," the carter retorted,
throwing his whip back into the waggon and coming a step nearer.
"D'yer 'ear?  I don't want any swells interferin' with my
business.  You 'op it.  Is that strite enough?  'Op it, quick!"

Sir Timothy's anger seemed to have abated.  There was even the
beginning of a smile upon his lips.  All the time his hand
caressed the neck of the horse.  Francis noticed with amazement
that the poor brute had raised his head and seemed to be making
some faint effort at reciprocation.

"My good man," Sir Timothy said, "you seem to be one of those
brutal persons unfit to be trusted with an animal.  However--"

The carter had heard quite enough.  Sir Timothy's tone seemed
to madden him.  He clenched his fist and rushed in.

"You take that for interferin', you big toff!" he shouted.

The result of the man's effort at pugilism was almost ridiculous.
His arms appeared to go round like windmills beating the air.  It
really seemed as though he had rushed upon the point of Sir
Timothy's knuckles, which had suddenly shot out like the piston
of an engine.  The carter lay on his back for a moment.  Then he
staggered viciously to his feet.

"Don't," Sir Timothy begged, as he saw signs of another attack.
"I don't want to hurt you.  I have been amateur champion of two
countries.  Not quite fair, is it?"

"Wot d'yer want to come interferin' with a chap's business for?"
the man growled, dabbing his cheek with a filthy handkerchief but
keeping at a respectful distance.

"It happens to be my business also," Sir Timothy replied, "to
interfere whenever I see animals ill-treated.  Now I don't want
to be unreasonable.  That animal has done all the work it ought
to do in this world.  How much is she worth to you?"

Through the man's beer-clogged brain a gleam of cunning began to
find its way.  He looked at the Rolls-Royce, with the two
motionless servants on the box, at Francis standing by, at Sir
Timothy, even to his thick understanding the very prototype of a
"toff."

"That 'oss," he said, "ain't what she was, it's true, but there's
a lot of work in 'er yet.  She may not be much to look at but
she's worth forty quid to me--ay, and one to spit on!"

Sir Timothy counted out some notes from the pocketbook which he
had produced, and handed them to the man.

"Here are fifty pounds," he said.  "The mare is mine.  Johnson!"

The second man sprang from his seat and came round.

"Unharness that mare," his master ordered, "help the man push his
trolley back out of the way, then lead the animal to the mews in
Curzon Street.  See that she is well bedded down and has a good
feed of corn.  To-morrow I shall send her down to the country,
but I will come and have a look at her first."

The man touched his hat and hastened to commence his task.  The
carter, who had been busy counting the notes, thrust them into
his pocket with a grin.

"Good luck to yer, guvnor!" he shouted out, in valedictory
fashion.  "'Ope I meets yer again when I've an old crock on the
go."

Sir Timothy turned his head.

"If ever I happen to meet you, my good man," he threatened,
"using your whip upon a poor beast who's doing his best, I
promise you you won't get up in two minutes, or twenty ....   We
might walk the last few yards, Mr. Ledsam."

The latter acquiesced at once, and in a moment or two they were
underneath the portico of the Opera House.  Sir Timothy had begun
to talk about the opera but Francis was a little distrait.  His
companion glanced at him curiously.

"You are puzzled, Mr. Ledsam?" he remarked.

"Very," was the prompt response.

Sir Timothy smiled.

"You are one of these primitive Anglo-Saxons," he said, "who can
see the simple things with big eyes, but who are terribly worried
at an unfamiliar constituent.  You have summed me up in your mind
as a hardened brute, a criminal by predilection, a patron of
murderers.  Ergo, you ask yourself why should I trouble to save a
poor beast of a horse from being chastised, and go out of my way
to provide her with a safe asylum for the rest of her life?
Shall I help you, Mr. Ledsam?"

"I wish you would," Francis confessed.

They had passed now through the entrance to the Opera House and
were in the corridor leading to the grand tier boxes.  On every
side Sir Timothy had been received with marks of deep respect.
Two bowing attendants were preceding them.  Sir Timothy leaned
towards his companion.

"Because," he whispered, "I like animals better than human
beings."

Margaret Hilditch, her chair pushed back into the recesses of the
box, scarcely turned her head at her father's entrance.

"I have brought an acquaintance of yours, Margaret," the latter
announced, as he hung up his hat.  "You remember Mr. Ledsam?"

Francis drew a little breath of relief as he bowed over her hand.
For the second time her inordinate composure had been assailed.
She was her usual calm and indifferent self almost immediately,
but the gleam of surprise, and he fancied not unpleasant
surprise, had been unmistakable.

"Are you a devotee, Mr. Ledsam?" she asked.

"I am fond of music," Francis answered, "especially this opera."

She motioned to the chair in the front of the box, facing the
stage.

"You must sit there," she insisted.  "I prefer always to remain
here, and my father always likes to face the audience.  I really
believe," she went on, "that he likes to catch the eye of the
journalist who writes little gossipy items, and to see his name
in print."

"But you yourself?" Francis ventured.

"I fancy that my reasons for preferring seclusion should be
obvious enough," she replied, a little bitterly.

"My daughter is inclined, I fear, to be a little morbid," Sir
Timothy said, settling down in his place.

Francis made no reply.  A triangular conversation of this sort
was almost impossible.  The members of the orchestra were already
climbing up to their places, in preparation for the overture to
the last act.  Sir Timothy rose to his feet.

"You will excuse me for a moment," he begged.  "I see a lady to
whom I must pay my respects."

Francis drew a sigh of relief at his departure.  He turned at
once to his companion.

"Did you mind my coming?" he asked.

"Mind it?" she repeated, with almost insolent nonchalance.  "Why
should it affect me in any way?  My father's friends come and go.
I have no interest in any of them."

"But," he protested, "I want you to be interested in me."

She moved a little uneasily in her place.  Her tone,
nevertheless, remained icy.

"Could you possibly manage to avoid personalities in your
conversation, Mr. Ledsam?" she begged.

"I have tried already to tell you how I feel about such things."

She was certainly difficult.  Francis realised that with a little
sigh.

"Were you surprised to see me with your father?" he asked, a
little inanely.

"I cannot conceive what you two have found in common," she
admitted.

"Perhaps our interest in you," he replied.  "By-the-bye, I have
just seen him perform a quixotic but a very fine action," Francis
said.  "He stopped a carter from thrashing his horse; knocked him
down, bought the horse from him and sent it home."

She was mildly interested.

"An amiable side of my father's character which no one would
suspect," she remarked.  "The entire park of his country house at
Hatch End is given over to broken-down animals."

"I am one of those," he confessed, "who find this trait amazing."

"And I am another," she remarked coolly.  "If any one settled
down seriously to try and understand my father, he would need the
spectacles of a De Quincey, the outlook of a Voltaire, and the
callousness of a Borgia.  You see, he doesn't lend himself to any
of the recognised standards."

"Neither do you," he said boldly.

She looked away from him across the House, to where Sir Timothy
was talking to a man and woman in one of the ground-floor boxes.
Francis recognised them with some surprise--an agricultural Duke
and his daughter, Lady Cynthia Milton, one of the most, beautiful
and famous young women in London.

"Your father goes far afield for his friends," Francis remarked.

"My father has no friends," she replied.  "He has many
acquaintances.  I doubt whether he has a single confidant.  I
expect Cynthia is trying to persuade him to invite her to his
next party at The Walled House."

"I should think she would fail, won't she?" he asked.

"Why should you think that?"

Francis shrugged his shoulders slightly.

"Your father's entertainments have the reputation of being
somewhat unique," he remarked.  "You do not, by-the-bye, attend
them yourself."

"You must remember that I have had very few opportunities so
far," she observed.  "Besides, Cynthia has tastes which I do not
share."

"As, for instance?"

"She goes to the National Sporting Club.  She once travelled, I
know, over a hundred miles to go to a bull fight."

"On the whole," Francis said, "I am glad that you do not share
her tastes."

"You know her?" Margaret enquired.

"Indifferently well," Francis replied.  "I knew her when she was
a child, and we seem to come together every now and then at long
intervals.  As a debutante she was charming.  Lately it seems to
me that she has got into the wrong set."

"What do you call the wrong set?"

He hesitated for a moment.

"Please don't think that I am laying down the law," he said.  "I
have been out so little, the last few years, that I ought not,
perhaps, to criticise.  Lady Cynthia, however, seems to me to
belong to the extreme section of the younger generation, the
section who have a sort of craze for the unusual, whose taste in
art and living is distorted and bizarre.  You know what I mean,
don't you--black drawing-rooms, futurist wall-papers, opium dens
and a cocaine box!  It's to some extent affectation, of course,
but it's a folly that claims its victims."

She studied him for a moment attentively.  His leanness was the
leanness of muscular strength and condition, his face was full of
vigour and determination.

"You at least have escaped the abnormal," she remarked.  "I am
not quite sure how the entertainments at The Walled House would
appeal to you, but if my father should invite you there, I should
advise you not to go."

"Why not?" he asked.

She hesitated for a moment.

"I really don't know why I should trouble to give you advice,"
she said.  "As a matter of fact, I don't care whether you go or
not.  In any case, you are scarcely likely to be asked."

"I am not sure that I agree with you," he protested.  "Your
father seems to have taken quite a fancy to me."

"And you?" she murmured.

"Well, I like the way he bought that horse," Francis admitted.
"And I am beginning to realise that there may be something in the
theory which he advanced when he invited me to accompany him here
this evening--that there is a certain piquancy in one's
intercourse with an enemy, which friendship lacks.  There may be
complexities in his character which as yet I have not
appreciated."

The curtain had gone up and the last act of the opera had
commenced.  She leaned back in her chair.  Without a word or even
a gesture, he understood that a curtain had been let down between
them.  He obeyed her unspoken wish and relapsed into silence.
Her very absorption, after all, was a hopeful sign.  She would
have him believe that she felt nothing, that she was living
outside all the passion and sentiment of life.  Yet she was
absorbed in the music ....  Sir Timothy came back and seated
himself silently.  It was not until the tumult of applause which
broke out after the great song of the French ouvrier, that a word
passed between them.

"Cavalisti is better," Sir Timothy commented.  "This man has not
the breadth of passion.  At times he is merely peevish."

She shook her head.

"Cavalisti would be too egotistical for the part," she said
quietly.  "It is difficult."

Not another word was spoken until the curtain fell.  Francis
lingered for a moment over the arrangement of her cloak.  Sir
Timothy was already outside, talking to some acquaintances.

"It has been a great pleasure to see you like this unexpectedly,"
he said, a little wistfully.

"I cannot imagine why," she answered, with an undernote of
trouble in her tone.  "Remember the advice I gave you before.  No
good can come of any friendship between my father and you."

"There is this much of good in it, at any rate," he answered, as
he held open the door for her.  "It might give me the chance of
seeing you sometimes."

"That is not a matter worth considering," she replied.

"I find it very much worth considering," he whispered, losing his
head for a moment as they stood close together in the dim light
of the box, and a sudden sense of the sweetness of her thrilled
his pulses.  "There isn't anything in the world I want so much as
to see you oftener--to have my chance."

There was a momentary glow in her eyes.  Her lips quivered.  The
few words which he saw framed there--he fancied of reproof
--remained unspoken.  Sir Timothy was waiting for them at the
entrance.

"I have been asking Mrs. Hilditch's permission to call in Curzon
Street," Francis said boldly.

"I am sure my daughter will be delighted," was the cold but
courteous reply.

Margaret herself made no comment.  The car drew up and she
stepped into it--a tall, slim figure, wonderfully graceful in her
unrelieved black, her hair gleaming as though with some sort of
burnish, as she passed underneath the electric light.  She looked
back at him with a smile of farewell as he stood bareheaded upon
the steps, a smile which reminded him somehow of her father, a
little sardonic, a little tender, having in it some faintly
challenging quality.  The car rolled away.  People around were
gossiping--rather freely.

"The wife of that man Oliver Hilditch," he heard a woman say,
"the man who was tried for murder, and committed suicide the
night after his acquittal.  Why, that can't be much more than
three months ago."

"If you are the daughter of a millionaire," her escort observed,
"you can defy convention."

"Yes, that was Sir Timothy Brast," another man was saying.  "He's
supposed to be worth a cool five millions."

"If the truth about him were known," his companion confided,
dropping his voice, "it would cost him all that to keep out of
the Old Bailey.  They say that his orgies at Hatch End-- Our
taxi.  Come on, Sharpe."

Francis strolled thoughtfully homewards.



CHAPTER XVI


Francis Ledsam was himself again, the lightest-hearted and most
popular member of his club, still a brilliant figure in the
courts, although his appearances there were less frequent, still
devoting the greater portion of his time, to his profession,
although his work in connection with it had become less
spectacular.  One morning, at the corner of Clarges Street and
Curzon Street, about three weeks after his visit to the Opera, he
came face to face with Sir Timothy Brast.

"Well, my altruistic peerer into other people's affairs, how goes
it?" the latter enquired pleasantly.

"How does it seem, my arch-criminal, to be still breathing God's
fresh air?" Francis retorted in the same vein.  "Make the most of
it.  It may not last for ever."

Sir Timothy smiled.  He was looking exceedingly well that
morning, the very prototype of a man contented with life and his
part in it.  He was wearing a morning coat and silk hat, his
patent boots were faultlessly polished, his trousers pressed to
perfection, his grey silk tie neat and fashionable.
Notwithstanding his waxenlike pallor, his slim figure and lithe,
athletic walk seemed to speak of good health.

"You may catch the minnow," he murmured.  "The big fish swim on.
By-the-bye," he added, "I do not notice that your sledge-hammer
blows at crime are having much effect.  Two undetected murders
last week, and one the week before.  What are you about, my
astute friend?"

"Those are matters for Scotland Yard," Francis replied, with an
indifferent little wave of the hand which held his cigarette.
"Details are for the professional.  I seek that corner in Hell
where the thunders are welded and the poison gases mixed.  In
other words, I seek for the brains of crime."

"Believe me, we do not see enough of one another, my young
friend," Sir Timothy said earnestly.  "You interest me more and
more every time we meet.  I like your allegories, I like your
confidence, which in any one except a genius would seem blatant.
When can we dine together and talk about crime?"

"The sooner the better," Francis replied promptly.  "Invite me,
and I will cancel any other engagement I might happen to have."

Sir Timothy considered for a moment.  The June sunshine was
streaming down upon them and the atmosphere was a little
oppressive.

"Will you dine with me at Hatch End to-night?" he asked.  "My
daughter and I will be alone."

"I should be delighted," Francis replied promptly.  "I ought to
tell you, perhaps, that I have called three times upon your
daughter but have not been fortunate enough to find her at home."

Sir Timothy was politely apologetic.

"I fear that my daughter is a little inclined to be morbid," he
confessed.  "Society is good for her.  I will undertake that you
are a welcome guest."

"At what time do I come and how shall I find your house?" Francis
enquired.

"You motor down, I suppose?" Sir Timothy observed.  "Good!  In
Hatch End any one will direct you.  We dine at eight.  You had
better come down as soon as you have finished your day's work.
Bring a suitcase and spend the night."

"I shall be delighted," Francis replied.

"Do not," Sir Timothy continued, "court disappointment by
over-anticipation.  You have without doubt heard of my little
gatherings at Hatch End.  They are viewed, I am told, with grave
suspicion, alike by the moralists of the City and, I fear, the
police.  I am not inviting you to one of those gatherings.  They
are for people with other tastes.  My daughter and I have been
spending a few days alone in the little bungalow by the side of
my larger house.  That is where you will find us--The Sanctuary,
we call it."

"Some day," Francis ventured, "I shall hope to be asked to one of
your more notorious gatherings.  For the present occasion I much
prefer the entertainment you offer."

"Then we are both content," Sir Timothy said, smiling.  "Au
revoir!"


Francis walked across Green Park, along the Mall, down Horse
Guards Parade, along the Embankment to his rooms on the fringe of
the Temple.  Here he found his clerk awaiting his arrival in some
disturbance of spirit.

"There is a young gentleman here to see you, sir," he announced.
"Mr. Reginald Wilmore his name is, I think."

"Wilmore?" Francis repeated.  "What have you done with him?"

"He is in your room, sir.  He seems very impatient.  He has been
out two or three times to know how long I thought you would be."

Francis passed down the stone passage and entered his room, a
large, shady apartment at the back of the building.  To his
surprise it was empty.  He was on the point of calling to his
clerk when he saw that the writing-paper on his desk had been
disturbed.  He went over and read a few lines written in a boy's
hasty writing:

DEAR Mr. LEDSAM:

I am in a very strange predicament and I have come to ask your
advice.  You know my brother Andrew well, and you may remember
playing tennis with me last year.  I am compelled--

At that point the letter terminated abruptly.  There was a blot
and a smudge.  The pen lay where it seemed to have rolled -on the
floor.  The ink was not yet dry.  Francis called to his clerk.

"Angrave," he said, "Mr. Wilmore is not here."

The clerk looked around in obvious surprise.

"It isn't five minutes since he came out to my office, sir!" he
exclaimed.  "I heard him go back again afterwards."

Francis shrugged his shoulders.

"Perhaps he decided not to wait and you didn't hear him go by."

Angrave shook his head.

"I do not see how he could have left the place without my hearing
him, sir," he declared.  "The door of my office has been open all
the time, and I sit opposite to it.  Besides, on these stone
floors one can hear any one so distinctly."

"Then what," Francis asked, "has become of him?"

The clerk shook his head.

"I haven't any idea, sir," he confessed.

Francis plunged into his work and forgot all about the matter.
He was reminded of it, however, at luncheon-time, when, on
entering the dining-room of the club, he saw Andrew Wilmore
seated alone at one of the small tables near the wall.  He went
over to him at once.

"Hullo, Andrew," he greeted him, "what are you doing here by
yourself?"

"Bit hipped, old fellow," was the depressed reply.  "Sit down,
will you?"

Francis sat down and ordered his lunch.

"By-the-bye," he said, "I had rather a mysterious visit this
morning from your brother Reggie."

Wilmore stared at him for a moment, half in relief, half in
amazement.

"Good God, Francis, you don't say so!" he exclaimed.  "How was
he?  What did he want?  Tell me about it at once?  We've been
worried to death about the boy."

"Well, as a matter of fact, I didn't see him," Francis explained.
"He arrived before I reached my rooms--as you know, I don't live
there--waited some time, began to write me this note,"--drawing
the sheet of paper from his pocket--"and when I got there had
disappeared without leaving a message or anything."

Wilmore adjusted his pince nez with trembling fingers.  Then he
read the few lines through.

"Francis," he said, when he had finished them, "do you know that
this is the first word we've heard of him for three days?"

"Great heavens!" Francis exclaimed.  "He was living with his
mother, wasn't he?"

"Down at Kensington, but he hasn't been there since Monday,"
Andrew replied.  "His mother is in a terrible state.  And now
this, I don't understand it at all."

"Was the boy hard up?"

"Not more than most young fellows are," was the puzzled reply.
"His allowance was due in a few days, too.  He had money in the
bank, I feel sure.  He was saving up for a motorcar."

"Haven't I seen him once or twice at restaurants lately?" Francis
enquired.  "Soto's, for instance?"

"Very likely," his brother assented.  "Why not?  He's fond of
dancing, and we none of us ever encouraged him to be a
stay-at-home."

"Any particular girl was he interested in?"

"Not that we know of.  Like most young fellows of his age, he was
rather keen on young women with some connection with the stage,
but I don't believe there was any one in particular.  Reggie was
too fond of games to waste much time that way.  He's at the
gymnasium three evenings a week."

"I wish I'd been at the office a few minutes earlier this
morning," Francis observed.  "I tell you what, Andrew.  I have
some pals down at Scotland Yard, and I'll go down and see them
this afternoon.  They'll want a photograph, and to ask a few
questions, I dare say, but I shouldn't talk about the matter too
much."

"You're very kind, Francis," his friend replied, "but it isn't so
easy to sit tight.  I was going to the police myself this
afternoon."

"Take my advice and leave it to me," Francis begged.  "I have a
particular pal down at Scotland Yard who I know will be
interested, and I want him to take up the case."

"You haven't any theory, I suppose?" Wilmore asked, a little
wistfully.

Francis shook his head.

"Not the ghost of one," he admitted.  "The reason I am advising
you to keep as quiet as possible, though, is just this.  If you
create a lot of interest in a disappearance, you have to satisfy
the public curiosity when the mystery is solved."

"I see," Wilmore murmured.  "All the same, I can't imagine Reggie
getting mixed up in anything discreditable."

"Neither can I, from what I remember of the boy," Francis agreed.
"Let me see, what was he doing in the City?"

"He was with Jameson & Scott, the stockbrokers," Wilmore replied.
"He was only learning the business and he had no
responsibilities.  Curiously enough, though, when I went to see
Mr. Jameson he pointed out one or two little matters that Reggie
had attended to, which looked as though he were clearing up,
somehow or other."

"He left no message there, I suppose?"

"Not a line or a word.  He gave the porter five shillings,
though, on the afternoon before he disappeared--a man who has
done some odd jobs for him."

"Well, a voluntary disappearance is better than an involuntary
one," Francis remarked.  "What was his usual programme when he
left the office?"

"He either went to Queen's and played racquets, or he went
straight to his gymnasium in the Holborn.  I telephoned to
Queen's.  He didn't call there on the Wednesday night, anyhow."

"Where's the gymnasium?"

"At 147 a Holborn.  A lot of city young men go there late in the
evening, but Reggie got off earlier than most of them and used to
have the place pretty well to himself.  I think that's why he
stuck to it."

Francis made a note of the address.

"I'll get Shopland to step down there some time," he said.  "Or
better still, finish your lunch and we'll take a taxi there
ourselves.  I'm going to the country later on, but I've
half-an-hour to spare.  We can go without our coffee and be
there in ten minutes."

"A great idea," Wilmore acquiesced.  "It's probably the last
place Reggie visited, anyway."




CHAPTER XVII


The gymnasium itself was a source of immense surprise to both
Francis and Wilmore.  It stretched along the entire top storey of
a long block of buildings, and was elaborately fitted with
bathrooms, a restaurant and a reading-room.  The trapezes, bars,
and all the usual appointments were of the best possible quality.
The manager, a powerful-looking man dressed with the precision of
the prosperous city magnate, came out of his office to greet
them.

"What can I do for you, gentlemen?" he enquired.

"First of all," Francis replied, "accept our heartiest
congratulations upon your wonderful gymnasium."

The man bowed.

"It is the best appointed in the country, sir," he said proudly.
"Absolutely no expense has been spared in fitting it up.  Every
one of our appliances is of the latest possible description, and
our bathrooms are an exact copy of those in a famous Philadelphia
club."

"What is the subscription?" Wilmore asked.

"Five shillings a year."

"And how many members?"

"Two thousand."

The manager smiled as he saw his two visitors exchange puzzled
glances.

"Needless to say, sir," he added, "we are not self-supporting.
We have very generous patrons."

"I lave heard my brother speak of this place as being quite
wonderful," Wilmore remarked, "but I had no idea that it was upon
this scale."

"Is your brother a member?" the man asked.

"He is.  To tell you the truth, we came here to ask you a
question about him."

"What is his name?"

"Reginald Wilmore.  He was here, I think, last Wednesday night."

While Wilmore talked, Francis watched.  He was conscious of a
curious change in the man's deportment at the mention of Reginald
Wilmore's name.  From being full of bumptious, almost
condescending good-nature, his expression had changed into one of
stony incivility.  There was something almost sinister in the
tightly-closed lips and the suspicious gleam in his eyes.

"What questions did you wish to ask?" he demanded.

"Mr. Reginald Wilmore has disappeared," Francis explained simply.
"He came here on leaving the office last Monday.  He has not been
seen or heard of since."

"Well?" the manager asked.

"We came to ask whether you happen to remember his being here on
that evening, and whether he gave any one here any indication of
his future movements.  We thought, perhaps, that the instructor
who was with him might have some information."

"Not a chance," was the uncompromising reply.  "I remember Mr.
Wilmore being here perfectly.  He was doing double turns on the
high bar.  I saw more of him myself than any one.  I was with him
when he went down to have his swim."

"Did he seem in his usual spirits?" Wilmore ventured.

"I don't notice what spirits my pupils are in," the man answered,
a little insolently.  "There was nothing the matter with him so
far as I know."

"He didn't say anything about going away?"

"Not a word.  You'll excuse me, gentlemen--"

"One moment," Francis interrupted.  "We came here ourselves
sooner than send a detective.  Enquiries are bound to be made as
to the young man's disappearance, and we have reason to know that
this is the last place at which he was heard of.  It is not
unreasonable, therefore, is it, that we should come to you for
information?"

"Reasonable or unreasonable, I haven't got any," the man declared
gruffly.  "If Mr. Wilmore's cleared out, he's cleared out for
some reason of his own.  It's not my business and I don't know
anything about it."

"You understand," Francis persisted, "that our interest in young
Mr. Wilmore is entirely a friendly one?"

"I don't care whether it's friendly or unfriendly.  I tell you I
don't know anything about him.  And," he added, pressing his
thumb upon the button for the lift, "I'll wish you two gentlemen
good afternoon.  I've business to attend to."

Francis looked at him curiously.

"Haven't I seen you somewhere before?" he asked, a little
abruptly.

"I can't say.  My name is John Maclane."

"Heavy-weight champion about seven years ago?"

"I was," the man acknowledged.  "You may have seen me in the
ring.  Now, gentlemen, if you please."

The lift had stopped opposite to them.  The manager's gesture of
dismissal was final.

"I am sorry, Mr. Maclane, if we have annoyed you with our
questions," Francis said.  "I wish you could remember a little
more of Mr. Wilmore's last visit."

"Well, I can't, and that's all there is to it," was the blunt
reply.  "As to being annoyed, I am only annoyed when my time's
wasted.  Take these gents down, Jim.  Good afternoon!"

The door was slammed to and they shot downwards.  Francis turned
to the lift man.

"Do you know a Mr. Wilmore who comes here sometimes?" he asked.

"Not likely!" the man scoffed.  "They're comin' and goin' all the
time from four o'clock in the afternoon till eleven at night.  If
I heard a name I shouldn't remember it.  This way out,
gentlemen."

Wilmore's hand was in his pocket but the man turned deliberately
away.  They walked out into the street.

"For downright incivility," the former observed, "commend me to
the attendants of a young men's gymnasium!"

Francis smiled.

"All the same, old fellow," he said, "if you worry for another
five minutes about Reggie, you're an ass."

At six o'clock that evening Francis turned his two-seater into a
winding drive bordered with rhododendrons, and pulled up before
the porch of a charming two-storied bungalow, covered with
creepers, and with French-windows opening from every room onto
the lawns.  A man-servant who had heard the approach of the car
was already standing in the porch.  Sir Timothy, in white
flannels and a panama hat, strolled across the lawn to greet his
approaching guest.

"Excellently timed, my young friend," he said.  "You will have
time for your first cocktail before you change.  My daughter you
know, of course.  Lady Cynthia Milton I think you also know."

Francis shook hands with the two girls who were lying under the
cedar tree.  Margaret Hilditch seemed to him more wonderful than
ever in her white serge boating clothes.  Lady Cynthia, who had
apparently just arrived from some function in town, was still
wearing muslin and a large hat.

"I am always afraid that Mr. Ledsam will have forgotten me," she
observed, as she gave him her hand.  "The last time I met you was
at the Old Bailey, when you had been cheating the gallows of a
very respectable wife murderer.  Poynings, I think his name was."

"I remember it perfectly," Francis assented.  "We danced together
that night, I remember, at your aunt's, Mrs. Malcolm's, and you
were intensely curious to know how Poynings had spent his
evening."

"Lady Cynthia's reminder is perhaps a little unfortunate," Sir
Timothy observed.  "Mr. Ledsam is no longer the last hope of the
enterprising criminal.  He has turned over a new leaf.  To secure
the services of his silver tongue, you have to lay at his feet no
longer the bags of gold from your ill-gotten gains but the white
flower of the blameless life."

"This is all in the worst possible taste," Margaret Hilditch
declared, in her cold, expressionless tone.  "You might consider
my feelings."

Lady Cynthia only laughed.

"My dear Margaret," she said, "if I thought that you had any, I
should never believe that you were your father's daughter.
Here's to them, anyway," she added, accepting the cocktail from
the tray which the butler had just brought out.  "Mr. Ledsam, are
you going to attach yourself to me, or has Margaret annexed you?"

"I have offered myself to Mrs. Hilditch," Francis rejoined
promptly, "but so far I have made no impression."

"Try her with a punt and a concertina after dinner," Lady Cynthia
suggested.  "After all, I came down here to better my
acquaintance with my host.  You flirted with me disgracefully
when I was a debutante, and have never taken any notice of me
since.  I hate infidelity in a man.  Sir Timothy, I shall devote
myself to you.  Can you play a concertina?"

"Where the higher forms of music are concerned," he replied, "I
have no technical ability.  I should prefer to sit at your feet."

"While I punt, I suppose?"

"There are backwaters," he suggested.

Lady Cynthia sipped her cocktail appreciatively.

"I wonder how it is," she observed, "that in these days, although
we have become callous to everything else in life, cocktails and
flirtations still attract us.  You shall take me to a backwater
after dinner, Sir Timothy.  I shall wear my silver-grey and take
an armful of those black cushions from the drawing-room.  In that
half light, there is no telling what success I may not achieve."

Sir Timothy sighed.

"Alas!" he said, "before dinner is over you will probably have
changed your mind."

"Perhaps so," she admitted, "but you must remember that Mr.
Ledsam is my only alternative, and I am not at all sure that he
likes me.  I am not sufficiently Victorian for his taste."

The dressing-bell rang.  Sir Timothy passed his arm through
Francis'.

"The sentimental side of my domain;" he said, "the others may
show you.  My rose garden across the stream has been very much
admired.  I am now going to give you a glimpse of The Walled
House, an edifice the possession of which has made me more or
less famous."

He led the way through a little shrubbery, across a further strip
of garden and through a door in a high wall, which he opened with
a key attached to his watch-chain.  They were in an open park
now, studded with magnificent trees, in the further corner of
which stood an imposing mansion, with a great domed roof in the
centre, and broad stone terraces, one of which led down to the
river.  The house itself was an amazingly blended mixture of old
and new, with great wings supported by pillars thrown out on
either side.  It seemed to have been built without regard to any
definite period of architecture, and yet to have attained a
certain coherency--a far-reaching structure, with long lines of
outbuildings.  In the park itself were a score or more of horses,
and in the distance beyond a long line of loose boxes with open
doors.  Even as they stood there, a grey sorrel mare had trotted
up to their side and laid her head against Sir Timothy's
shoulder.  He caressed her surreptitiously, affecting not to
notice the approach of other animals from all quarters.

"Let me introduce you to The Walled House," its owner observed,
"so called, I imagine, because this wall, which is a great deal
older than you or I, completely encloses the estate.  Of course,
you remember the old house, The Walled Palace, they called it?
It belonged for many years to the Lynton family, and afterwards
to the Crown."

"I remember reading of your purchase," Francis said, "and of
course I remember the old mansion.  You seem to have wiped it out
pretty effectually."

"I was obliged to play the vandal," his host confessed.  "In its
previous state, the house was picturesque but uninhabitable.  As
you see it now, it is an exact reproduction of the country home
of one of the lesser known of the Borgias--Sodina, I believe the
lady's name was.  You will find inside some beautiful arches, and
a sense of space which all modern houses lack.  It cost me a
great deal of money, and it is inhabited, when I am in Europe,
about once a fortnight.  You know the river name for it?
'Timothy's Folly!"'

"But what on earth made you build it, so long as you don't care
to live there?" Francis enquired.

Sir Timothy smiled reflectively.

"Well," he explained, "I like sometimes to entertain, and I like
to entertain, when I do, on a grand scale.  In London, if I give
a party, the invitations are almost automatic.  I become there a
very insignificant link in the chain of what is known as Society,
and Society practically helps itself to my entertainment, and
sees that everything is done according to rule.  Down here things
are entirely different.  An invitation to The Walled House is a
personal matter.  Society has nothing whatever to do with my
functions here.  The reception-rooms, too, are arranged according
to my own ideas.  I have, as you may have heard, the finest
private gymnasium in England.  The ballroom and music-room and
private theatre, too, are famous."

"And do you mean to say that you keep that huge place empty?"
Francis asked curiously.

"I have a suite of rooms there which I occasionally occupy," Sir
Timothy replied, "and there are always thirty or forty servants
and attendants of different sorts who have their quarters there.
I suppose that my daughter and I would be there at the present
moment but for the fact that we own this cottage.  Both she and
I, for residential purposes, prefer the atmosphere there."

"I scarcely wonder at it," Francis agreed.

They were surrounded now by various quadrupeds.  As well as the
horses, half-a-dozen of which were standing patiently by Sir
Timothy's side, several dogs had made their appearance and after
a little preliminary enthusiasm had settled down at his feet.
He leaned over and whispered something in the ear of the mare who
had come first.  She trotted off, and the others followed suit in
a curious little procession.  Sir Timothy watched them, keeping
his head turned away from Francis.

"You recognise the mare the third from the end?" he pointed out.
"That is the animal I bought in Covent Garden.  You see how she
has filled out?"

"I should never have recognised her," the other confessed.

"Even Nero had his weaknesses," Sir Timothy remarked, waving the
dogs away.  "My animals' quarters are well worth a visit, if you
have time.  There is a small hospital, too, which is quite up to
date."

"Do any of the horses work at all?" Francis asked.

Sir Timothy smiled.

"I will tell you a very human thing about my favourites," he
said.  "In the gardens on the other side of the house we have
very extensive lawns, and my head groom thought he would make use
of one of a my horses who had recovered from a serious accident
and was really quite a strong beast, for one of the machines.  He
found the idea quite a success, and now he no sooner appears in
the park with a halter than, instead of stampeding, practically
every one of those horses comes cantering up with the true
volunteering spirit.  The one which he selects, arches his neck
and goes off to work with a whole string of the others following.
Dodsley--that is my groom's name--tells me that he does a great
deal more mowing now than he need, simply because they worry him
for the work.  Gratitude, you see, Mr. Ledsam, sheer gratitude.
If you were to provide a dozen alms-houses for your poor
dependants, I wonder how many of them would be anxious to mow
your lawn....  Come, let me show you your room now."

They passed back through the postern-gate into the gardens of The
Sanctuary.  Sir Timothy led the way towards the house.

"I am glad that you decided to spend the night, Mr. Ledsam," he
said.  "The river sounds a terribly hackneyed place to the
Londoner, but it has beauties which only those who live with it
can discover.  Mind your head.  My ceilings are low."

Francis followed his host along many passages, up and down
stairs, until he reached a little suite of rooms at the extreme
end of the building.  The man-servant who had unpacked his bag
stood waiting.  Sir Timothy glanced around critically.

"Small but compact," he remarked.  "There is a little sitting-room
down that stair, and a bathroom beyond.  If the flowers annoy you,
throw them out of the window.  And if you prefer to bathe in the
river to-morrow morning, Brooks here will show you the diving pool.
I am wearing a short coat myself to-night, but do as you please.
We dine at half-past eight."

Sir Timothy disappeared with a courteous little inclination of the
head.  Francis dismissed the manservant at once as being out of
keeping with his quaint and fascinating surroundings.  The tiny
room with its flowers, its perfume of lavender, its old-fashioned
chintzes, and its fragrant linen, might still have been a room in
a cottage.  The sitting-room, with its veranda looking down upon
the river, was provided with cigars, whisky and soda and
cigarettes; a bookcase, with a rare copy of Rabelais, an original
Surtees, a large paper Decameron, and a few other classics.  Down
another couple of steps was a perfectly white bathroom, with shower
and plunge.  Francis wandered from room to room, and finally threw
himself into a chair on the veranda to smoke a cigarette.  From
the river below him came now and then the sound of voices.  Through
the trees on his right he could catch a glimpse, here and there, of
the strange pillars and green domed roof of the Borghese villa.




CHAPTER XVIII


It was one of those faultless June evenings when the only mission
of the faintly stirring breeze seems to be to carry perfumes from
garden to garden and to make the lightest of music amongst the
rustling leaves.  The dinner-table had been set out of doors,
underneath the odorous cedar-tree.  Above, the sky was an arc of
the deepest blue through which the web of stars had scarcely yet
found its way.  Every now and then came the sound of the splash
of oars from the river; more rarely still, the murmur of light
voices as a punt passed up the stream.  The little party at The
Sanctuary sat over their coffee and liqueurs long after the fall
of the first twilight, till the points of their cigarettes glowed
like little specks of fire through the enveloping darkness.
Conversation had been from the first curiously desultory, edited,
in a way, Francis felt, for his benefit.  There was an atmosphere
about his host and Lady Cynthia, shared in a negative way by
Margaret Hilditch, which baffled Francis.  It seemed to establish
more than a lack of sympathy--to suggest, even, a life lived upon
a different plane.  Yet every now and then their references to
everyday happenings were trite enough.  Sir Timothy had assailed
the recent craze for drugs, a diatribe to which Lady Cynthia had
listened in silence for reasons which Francis could surmise.

"If one must soothe the senses," Sir Timothy declared, "for the
purpose of forgetting a distasteful or painful present, I cannot
see why the average mind does not turn to the contemplation of
beauty in some shape or other.  A night like to-night is surely
sedative enough.  Watch these lights, drink in these perfumes,
listen to the fall and flow of the water long enough, and you
would arrive at precisely the same mental inertia as though you
had taken a dose of cocaine, with far less harmful an aftermath."

Lady Cynthia shrugged her shoulders.

"Cocaine is in one's dressing-room," she objected, "and beauty is
hard to seek in Grosvenor Square."

"The common mistake of all men," Sir Timothy continued, "and
women, too, for the matter of that, is that we will persist in
formulating doctrines for other people.  Every man or woman is an
entity of humanity, with a separate heaven and a separate hell.
No two people can breathe the same air in the same way, or see
the same picture with the same eyes."

Lady Cynthia rose to her feet and shook out the folds of her
diaphanous gown, daring alike in its shapelessness and
scantiness.  She lit a cigarette and laid her hand upon Sir
Timothy's arm.

"Come," she said, "must I remind you of your promise?  You are to
show me the stables at The Walled House before it is dark."

"You would see them better in the morning," he reminded her,
rising with some reluctance to his feet.

"Perhaps," she answered, "but I have a fancy to see them now."

Sir Timothy looked back at the table.

"Margaret," he said, "will you look after Mr. Ledsam for a little
time?  You will excuse us, Ledsam?  We shall not be gone long."

They moved away together towards the shrubbery and the door in
the wall behind.  Francis resumed his seat.

"Are you not also curious to penetrate the mysteries behind the
wall, Mr. Ledsam?" Margaret asked.

"Not so curious but that I would much prefer to remain here," he
answered.

"With me?"

"With you."

She knocked the ash from her cigarette.  She was looking directly
at him, and he fancied that there was a gleam of curiosity in her
beautiful eyes.  There was certainly a little more abandon about
her attitude.  She was leaning back in a corner of her high-backed
chair, and her gown, although it lacked the daring of Lady Cynthia's,
seemed to rest about her like a cloud of blue-grey smoke.

"What a curious meal!" she murmured.  "Can you solve a puzzle for
me, Mr. Ledsam?"

"I would do anything for you that I could," he answered.

"Tell me, then, why my father asked you here to-night?  I can
understand his bringing you to the opera, that was just a whim of
the moment, but an invitation down here savours of deliberation.
Studiously polite though you are to one another, one is conscious
all the time of the hostility beneath the surface."

"I think that so far as your father is concerned, it is part of
his peculiar disposition," Francis replied.  "You remember he
once said that he was tired of entertaining his friends--that
there was more pleasure in having an enemy at the board."

"Are you an enemy, Mr. Ledsam?" she asked curiously.

He rose a little abruptly to his feet, ignoring her question.
There were servants hovering in the background.

"Will you walk with me in the gardens?" he begged.  "Or may I
take you upon the river?"

She rose to her feet.  For a moment she seemed to hesitate.

"The river, I think," she decided.  "Will you wait for three
minutes while I get a wrap.  You will find some punts moored to
the landing-stage there in the stream.  I like the very largest
and most comfortable."

Francis strolled to the edge of the stream, and made his choice
of punts.  Soon a servant appeared with his arms full of
cushions, and a moment or two later, Margaret herself, wrapped in
an ermine cloak.  She smiled a little deprecatingly as she picked
her way across the lawn.

"Don't laugh at me for being such a chilly mortal, please," she
enjoined.  "And don't be afraid that I am going to propose a long
expedition.  I want to go to a little backwater in the next
stream."

She settled herself in the stern and they glided down the narrow
thoroughfare.  The rose bushes from the garden almost lapped the
water as they passed.  Behind, the long low cottage, the deserted
dinner-table, the smooth lawn with its beds of scarlet geraniums
and drooping lilac shrubs in the background, seemed like a scene
from fairyland, to attain a perfection of detail unreal, almost
theatrical.

"To the right when you reach the river, please," she directed.
"You will find there is scarcely any current.  We turn up the
next stream."

There was something almost mysterious, a little impressive, about
the broad expanse of river into which they presently turned.
Opposite were woods and then a sloping lawn.  From a house hidden
in the distance they heard the sound of a woman singing.  They
even caught the murmurs of applause as she concluded.  Then there
was silence, only the soft gurgling of the water cloven by the
punt pole.  They glided past the front of the great unlit house,
past another strip of woodland, and then up a narrow stream.

"To the left here," she directed, "and then stop."

They bumped against the bank.  The little backwater into which
they had turned seemed to terminate in a bed of lilies whose
faint fragrance almost enveloped them.  The trees on either side
made a little arch of darkness.

"Please ship your pole and listen," Margaret said dreamily.
"Make yourself as comfortable as you can.  There are plenty of
cushions behind you.  This is where I come for silence."

Francis obeyed her orders without remark.  For a few moments,
speech seemed impossible.  The darkness was so intense that
although he was acutely conscious of her presence there, only a
few feet away, nothing but the barest outline of her form was
visible.  The silence which she had brought him to seek was all
around them.  There was just the faintest splash of water from
the spot where the stream and the river met, the distant barking
of a dog, the occasional croaking of a frog from somewhere in the
midst of the bed of lilies.  Otherwise the silence and the
darkness were like a shroud.  Francis leaned forward in his
place.  His hands, which gripped the sides of the punt, were hot.
The serenity of the night mocked him.

"So this is your paradise," he said, a little hoarsely.

She made no answer.  Her silence seemed to him more thrilling
than words.  He leaned forward.  His hands fell upon the soft fur
which encompassed her.  They rested there.  Still she did not
speak.  He tightened his grasp, moved further forward, the
passion surging through his veins, his breath almost failing him.
He was so near now that he heard her breathing, saw her face, as
pale as ever.  Her lips were a little parted, her eyes looked
out, as it seemed to him, half in fear, half in hope.  He bent
lower still.  She neither shrank away nor invited him.

"Dear!" he whispered.

Her arms stole from underneath the cloak, her fingers rested upon
his shoulders.  He scarcely knew whether it was a caress or
whether she were holding him from her.  In any case it was too
late.  With a little sob of passion his lips were pressed to
hers.  Even as she closed her eyes, the scent of the lilies
seemed to intoxicate him.

He was back in his place without conscious movement.  His pulses
were quivering, the passion singing in his blood, the joy of her
faint caress living proudly in his memory.  It had been the
moment of his life, and yet even now he felt sick at heart with
fears, with the torment of her passiveness.  She had lain there
in his arms, he had felt the thrill of her body, some quaint
inspiration had told him that she had sought for joy in that
moment and had not wholly failed.  Yet his anxiety was
tumultuous, overwhelming.  Then she spoke, and his heart leaped
again.  Her voice was more natural.  It was not a voice which he
had ever heard before.

"Give me a cigarette, please--and I want to go back."

He leaned over her again, struck a match with trembling fingers
and gave her the cigarette.  She smiled at him very faintly.

"Please go back now," she begged.  "Smoke yourself, take me home
slowly and say nothing."

He obeyed, but his knees were shaking when he stood up.  Slowly,
a foot at a time, they passed from the mesh of the lilies out
into the broad stream.  Almost as they did so, the yellow rim of
the moon came up over the low hills.  As they turned into their
own stream, the light was strong enough for him to see her face.
She lay there like a ghost, her eyes half closed, the only touch
of colour in the shining strands of her beautiful hair.  She
roused herself a little as they swung around.  He paused, leaning
upon the pole.

"You are not angry?" he asked.

"No, I am not angry," she answered.  "Why should I be?  But I
cannot talk to you about it tonight."

They glided to the edge of the landing-stage.  A servant appeared
and secured the punt.

"Is Sir Timothy back yet?" Margaret enquired.

"Not yet, madam."

She turned to Francis.

"Please go and have a whisky and soda in the smoking-room," she
said, pointing to the open French windows.  "I am going to my
favourite seat.  You will find me just across the bridge there."

He hesitated, filled with a passionate disinclination to leave
her side even for a moment.  She seemed to understand but she
pointed once more to the room.

"I should like very much," she added, "to be alone for five
minutes.  If you will come and find me then--please!"

Francis stepped through the French windows into the smoking-room,
where all the paraphernalia for satisfying thirst were set out
upon the sideboard.  He helped himself to whisky and soda and
drank it absently, with his eyes fixed upon the clock.  In five
minutes he stepped once more back into the gardens, soft and
brilliant now in the moonlight.  As he did so, he heard the click
of the gate in the wall, and footsteps.  His host, with Lady
Cynthia upon his arm, came into sight and crossed the lawn
towards him.  Francis, filled though his mind was with other
thoughts, paused for a moment and glanced towards them curiously.
Lady Cynthia seemed for a moment to have lost all her weariness.
Her eyes were very bright, she walked with a new spring in her
movements.  Even her voice, as she addressed Francis, seemed
altered.

"Sir Timothy has been showing me some of the wonders of his
villa--do you call it a villa or a palace?" she asked.

"It is certainly not a palace," Sir Timothy protested, "and I
fear that it has scarcely the atmosphere of a villa.  It is an
attempt to combine certain ideas of my own with the requirements
of modern entertainment.  Come and have a drink with us, Ledsam."

"I have just had one," Francis replied.  "Mrs. Hilditch is in the
rose garden and I am on my way to join her."

He passed on and the two moved towards the open French windows.
He crossed the rustic bridge that led into the flower garden,
turned down the pergola and came to a sudden standstill before
the seat which Margaret had indicated.  It was empty, but in the
corner lay the long-stalked lily which she had picked in the
backwater.  He stood there for a moment, transfixed.  There were
other seats and chairs in the garden, but he knew before he
started his search that it was in vain.  She had gone.  The
flower, drooping a little now though the stalk was still wet with
the moisture of the river, seemed to him like her farewell.




CHAPTER XIX


Francis was surprised, when he descended for breakfast the next
morning, to find the table laid for one only.  The butler who was
waiting, handed him the daily papers and wheeled the electric
heater to his side.

"Is no one else breakfasting?" Francis asked.

"Sir Timothy and Mrs. Hilditch are always served in their rooms,
sir.  Her ladyship is taking her coffee upstairs."

Francis ate his breakfast, glanced through the Times, lit a
cigarette and went round to the garage for his car.  The butler
met him as he drove up before the porch.

"Sir Timothy begs you to excuse him this morning, sir," he
announced.  "His secretary has arrived from town with a very
large correspondence which they are now engaged upon."

"And Mrs. Hilditch?" Francis ventured.

"I have not seen her maid this morning, sir," the man replied,
"but Mrs. Hilditch never rises before midday.  Sir Timothy hopes
that you slept well, sir, and would like you to sign the
visitors' book."

Francis signed his name mechanically, and was turning away when
Lady Cynthia called to him from the stairs.  She was dressed for
travelling and followed by a maid, carrying her dressing-case.

"Will you take me up to town, Mr. Ledsam?" she asked.

"Delighted," he answered.

Their dressing-cases were strapped together behind and Lady
Cynthia sank into the cushions by his side.  They drove away from
the house, Francis with a backward glance of regret.  The striped
sun-blinds had been lowered over all the windows, thrushes and
blackbirds were twittering on the lawn, the air was sweet with
the perfume of flowers, a boatman was busy with the boats.  Out
beyond, through the trees, the river wound its placid way.

"Quite a little paradise," Lady Cynthia murmured.

"Delightful," her companion assented.  "I suppose great wealth
has its obligations, but why any human being should rear such a
structure as what he calls his Borghese villa, when he has a
charming place like that to live in, I can't imagine."

Her silence was significant, almost purposeful.  She unwound the
veil from her motoring turban, took it off altogether and
attached it to the cushions of the car with a hatpin.

"There," she said, leaning back, "you can now gaze upon a
horrible example to the young women of to-day.  You can see the
ravages which late hours, innumerable cocktails, a thirst for
excitement, a contempt of the simple pleasures of life, have
worked upon my once comely features.  I was quite good-looking,
you know, in the days you first knew me."

"You were the most beautiful debutante of your season," he
agreed.

"What do you think of me now?" she asked.

She met his gaze without flinching.  Her face was unnaturally
thin, with disfiguring hollows underneath her cheekbones; her
lips lacked colour; even her eyes were lustreless.  Her hair
seemed to lack brilliancy.  Only her silken eyebrows remained
unimpaired, and a certain charm of expression which nothing
seemed able to destroy.

"You look tired," he said.

"Be honest, my dear man," she rejoined drily.  "I am a physical
wreck, dependent upon cosmetics for the looks which I am still
clever enough to palm off on the uninitiated."

"Why don't you lead a quieter life?" he asked.  "A month or so in
the country would put you all right."

She laughed a little hardly.  Then for a moment she looked at him
appraisingly.

"I was going to speak to you of nerves," she said, "but how would
you ever understand?  You look as though you had not a nerve in
your body.  I can't think how you manage it, living in London.  I
suppose you do exercises and take care of what you eat and
drink."

"I do nothing of the sort," he assured her indignantly.  "I eat
and drink whatever I fancy.  I have always had a direct object in
life--my work--and I believe that has kept me fit and well.
Nerve troubles come as a rule, I think, from the under-used
brain."

"I must have been born with a butterfly disposition," she said.
"I am quite sure that mine come because I find it so hard to be
amused.  I am sure I am most enterprising.  I try whatever comes
along, but nothing satisfies me."

"Why not try being in love with one of these men who've been in
love with you all their lives?"

She laughed bitterly.

"The men who have cared for me and have been worth caring about,"
she said, "gave me up years ago.  I mocked at them when they were
in earnest, scoffed at sentiment, and told them frankly that when
I married it would only be to find a refuge for broader life.
The right sort wouldn't have anything to say to me after that,
and I do not blame them.  And here is the torture of it.  I can't
stand the wrong sort near me--physically, I mean.  Mind, I
believe I'm attracted towards people with criminal tastes and
propensities.  I believe that is what first led me towards Sir
Timothy.  Every taste I ever had in life seems to have become
besmirched.  I'm all the time full of the craving to do horrible
things, but all the same I can't bear to be touched.  That's the
torment of it.  I wonder if you can understand?"

"I think I can," he answered.  "Your trouble lies in having the
wrong friends and in lack of self-discipline.  If you were my
sister, I'd take you away for a fortnight and put you on the road
to being cured."

"Then I wish I were your sister," she sighed.

"Don't think I'm unsympathetic," he went on, "because I'm not.
Wait till we've got into the main road here and I'll try and
explain."

They were passing along a country lane, so narrow that twigs
from the hedges, wreathed here and there in wild roses, brushed
almost against their cheeks.  On their left was the sound of a
reaping-machine and the perfume of new-mown hay.  The sun was
growing stronger at every moment.  A transitory gleam of pleasure
softened her face.

"It is ages since I smelt honeysuckle," she confessed, "except in
a perfumer's shop.  I was wondering what it reminded me of."

"That," he said, as they turned out into the broad main road,
with its long vista of telegraph poles, "is because you have been
neglecting the real for the sham, flowers themselves for their
artificially distilled perfume.  What I was going to try and put
into words without sounding too priggish, Lady Cynthia," he went
on, "is this.  It is just you people who are cursed with a
restless brain who are in the most dangerous position, nowadays.
The things which keep us healthy and normal physically--games,
farces, dinner-parties of young people, fresh air and exercise
--are the very things which after a time fail to satisfy the
person with imagination.  You want more out of life, always the
something you don't understand, the something beyond.  And so you
keep on trying new things, and for every new thing you try, you
drop an old one.  Isn't it something like that?"

"I suppose it is," she admitted wearily.

"Drugs take the place of wholesome wine," he went on, warming to
his subject.  "The hideous fascination of flirting with the
uncouth or the impossible some way or another, stimulates a
passion which simple means have ceased to gratify.  You seek for
the unusual in every way--in food, in the substitution of
absinthe for your harmless Martini, of cocaine for your
stimulating champagne.  There is a horrible wave of all this
sort of thing going on to-day in many places, and I am afraid,"
he concluded, "that a great many of our very nicest young women
are caught up in it."

"Guilty," she confessed. "Now cure me."

"I could point out the promised land, but how, could I lead you
to it?" he answered.

"You don't like me well enough," she sighed.

"I like you better than you believe," he assured her, slackening
his speed a little.  "We have met, I suppose, a dozen times in
our lives.  I have danced with you here and there, talked
nonsense once, I remember, at a musical reception--"

"I tried to flirt with you then," she interrupted.

He nodded.

"I was in the midst of a great case," he said, "and everything
that happened to me outside it was swept out of my mind day by
day.  What I was going to say is that I have always liked you,
from the moment when your mother presented me to you at your
first dance."

"I wish you'd told me so," she murmured.

"It wouldn't have made any difference," he declared.  "I wasn't
in a position to think of a duke's daughter, in those days.  I
don't suppose I am now."

"Try," she begged hopefully.

He smiled back at her.  The reawakening of her sense of humour
was something.

"Too late," he regretted.  "During the last month or so the thing
has come to me which we all look forward to, only I don't think
fate has treated me kindly.  I have always loved normal ways and
normal people, and the woman I care for is different."

"Tell me about her?" she insisted.

"You will be very surprised when I tell you her name," he said.
"It is Margaret Hilditch."

She looked at him for a moment in blank astonishment.

"Heavens!" she exclaimed.  "Oliver Hilditch's wife!"

"I can't help that," he declared, a little doggedly.  "She's had
a miserable time, I know.  She was married to a scamp.  I'm not
quite sure that her father isn't as bad a one.  Those things
don't make any difference."

"They wouldn't with you," she said softly.  "Tell me, did you say
anything to her last night?"

"I did," he replied.  "I began when we were out alone together.
She gave me no encouragement to speak of, but at any rate she
knows."

Lady Cynthia leaned a little forward in her place.

"Do you know where she is now?"

He was a little startled.

"Down at the cottage, I suppose.  The butler told me that she
never rose before midday."

"Then for once the butler was mistaken," his companion told him.
"Margaret Hilditch left at six o'clock this morning.  I saw her
in travelling clothes get into the car and drive away."

"She left the cottage this morning before us?" Francis repeated,
amazed.

"I can assure you that she did," Lady Cynthia insisted.  "I never
sleep, amongst my other peculiarities," she went on bitterly,
"and I was lying on a couch by the side of the open window when
the car came for her.  She stopped it at the bend of the avenue
--so that it shouldn't wake us up, I suppose.  I saw her get in
and drive away."

Francis was silent for several moments.  Lady Cynthia watched him
curiously.

"At any rate," she observed, "in whatever mood she went away this
morning, you have evidently succeeded in doing what I have never
seen any one else do--breaking through her indifference.  I
shouldn't have thought that anything short of an earthquake would
have stirred Margaret, these days."

"These days?" he repeated quickly.  "How long have you known
her?"

"We were at school together for a short time," she told him.  "It
was while her father was in South America.  Margaret was a very
different person in those days."

"However was she induced to marry a person like Oliver Hilditch?"
Francis speculated.

His companion shrugged her shoulders.

"Who knows?" she answered indifferently.  "Are you going to drop
me?"

"Wherever you like."

"Take me on to Grosvenor Square, if you will, then," she begged,
"and deposit me at the ancestral mansion.  I am really rather
annoyed about Margaret," she went on, rearranging her veil.  "I
had begun to have hopes that you might have revived my taste for
normal things."

"If I had had the slightest intimation--" he murmured.

"It would have made no difference," she interrupted dolefully.
"Now I come to think of it, the Margaret whom I used to know--and
there must be plenty of her left yet--is just the right type of
woman for you."

They drew up outside the house in Grosvenor Square.  Lady Cynthia
held out her hand.

"Come and see me one afternoon, will you?" she invited.

"I'd like to very much," he replied.

She lingered on the steps and waved her hand to him--a graceful,
somewhat insolent gesture.

"All the same, I think I shall do my best to make you forget
Margaret," she called out.  "Thanks for the lift up.  A bientot!"




CHAPTER XX


Francis drove direct from Grosvenor Square to his chambers in the
Temple, and found Shopland, his friend from Scotland Yard,
awaiting his arrival.

"Any news?" Francis enquired.

"Nothing definite, I am sorry, to say," was the other's reluctant
admission.

Francis hung up his hat, threw himself into his easy-chair and
lit a cigarette.

"The lad's brother is one of my oldest friends, Shopland," he
said.  "He is naturally in a state of great distress."

The detective scratched his chin thoughtfully.

"I said 'nothing definite' just now, sir," he observed.  "As a
rule, I never mention suspicions, but with you it is a different
matter.  I haven't discovered the slightest trace of Mr. Reginald
Wilmore, or the slightest reason for his disappearance.  He seems
to have been a well-conducted young gentleman, a little
extravagant, perhaps, but able to pay his way and with nothing
whatever against him.  Nothing whatever, that is to say, except
one almost insignificant thing."

"And that?"

"A slight tendency towards bad company, sir.  I have heard of his
being about with one or two whom we are keeping our eye upon."

"Bobby Fairfax's lot, by any chance?"

Shopland nodded.

"He was with Jacks and Miss Daisy Hyslop, a night or two before
he disappeared.  I am not sure that a young man named Morse
wasn't of the party, too."

"What do you make of that lot?" Francis asked curiously.  "Are
they gamesters, dope fiends, or simply vicious?"

The detective was silent.  He was gazing intently at his rather
square-toed shoes.

"There are rumours, sir," he said, presently, "of things going on
in the West End which want looking into very badly--very badly
indeed.  You will remember speaking to me of Sir Timothy Brast?"

"I remember quite well," Francis acknowledged.

"I've nothing to go on," the other continued.  "I am working
almost on your own lines, Mr. Ledsam, groping in the dark to find
a clue, as it were, but I'm beginning to have ideas about Sir
Timothy Brast, just ideas."

"As, for instance?"

"Well, he stands on rather queer terms with some of his
acquaintances, sir.  Now you saw, down at Soto's Bar, the night
we arrested Mr. Fairfax, that not one of those young men there
spoke to Sir Timothy as though they were acquainted, nor he to
them.  Yet I happened to find out that every one of them,
including Mr. Fairfax himself, was present at a party Sir Timothy
Brast gave at his house down the river a week or two before."

"I'm afraid there isn't much in that," Francis declared.  "Sir
Timothy has the name of being an eccentric person everywhere,
especially in this respect--he never notices acquaintances.  I
heard, only the other day, that while he was wonderfully
hospitable and charming to all his guests, he never remembered
them outside his house."

Shopland nodded.

"A convenient eccentricity," he remarked, a little drily.  "I
have heard the same thing myself.  You spent the night at his
country cottage, did you not, Mr. Ledsam?  Did he offer to show
you over The Walled House?"

"How the dickens did you know I was down there?" Francis
demanded, with some surprise.  "I was just thinking as I drove up
that I hadn't left my address either here or at Clarges Street."

"Next time you visit Sir Timothy," the detective observed, "I
should advise you to do so.  I knew you were there, Mr. Ledsam,
because I was in the neighbourhood myself.  I have been doing a
little fishing, and keeping my eye on that wonderful estate of
Sir Timothy's."

Francis was interested.

"Shopland," he said, "I believe that our intelligences, such as
they are, are akin."

"What do you suspect Sir Timothy of?" the detective asked
bluntly.

"I suspect him of nothing," Francis replied.  "He is simply, to
my mind, an incomprehensible, somewhat sinister figure, who might
be capable of anything.  He may have very excellent qualities
which he contrives to conceal, or he may be an arch-criminal.  His
personality absolutely puzzles me."

There was a knock at the door and Angrave appeared.  Apparently
he had forgotten Shopland's presence, for he ushered in another
visitor.

"Sir Timothy Brast to see you, sir," he announced.

The moment was one of trial to every one, admirably borne.
Shopland remained in his chair, with only a casual glance at the
newcomer.  Francis rose to his feet with a half-stifled
expression of anger at the clumsiness of his clerk.  Sir Timothy,
well-shaven and groomed, attired in a perfectly-fitting suit of
grey flannel, nodded to Francis in friendly fashion and laid his
Homburg hat upon the table with the air of a familiar.

"My dear Ledsam," he said, "I do hope that you will excuse this
early call.  I could only have been an hour behind you on the
road.  I dare say you can guess what I have come to see you
about.  Can we have a word together?"

"Certainly," was the ready reply.  "You remember my friend
Shopland, Sir Timothy?  It was Mr. Shopland who arrested young
Fairfax that night at Soto's."

"I remember him perfectly," Sir Timothy declared.  "I fancied,
directly I entered, that your face was familiar," he added,
turning to Shopland.  "I am rather ashamed of myself about that
night.  My little outburst must have sounded almost ridiculous to
you two.  To tell you the truth, I quite failed at that time to
give Mr. Ledsam credit for gifts which I have since discovered
him to possess."

"Mr. Shopland and I are now discussing another matter," Francis
went on, pushing a box of cigarettes towards Sir Timothy, who was
leaning against the table in an easy attitude.  "Don't go,
Shopland, for a minute.  We were consulting together about the
disappearance of a young man, Reggie Wilmore, the brother of a
friend of mine--Andrew Wilmore, the novelist."

"Disappearance?" Sir Timothy repeated, as he lit a cigarette.
"That is rather a vague term."

"The young man has been missing from home for over a week,"
Francis said, "and left no trace whatever of his whereabouts.
He was not in financial trouble, he does not seem to have been
entangled with any young woman, he had not quarrelled with his
people, and he seems to have been on the best of terms with the
principal at the house of business where he was employed.  His
disappearance, therefore, is, to say the least of it, mysterious."

Sir Timothy assented gravely.

"The lack of motive to which you allude," he pointed out, "makes
the case interesting.  Still, one must remember that London is
certainly the city of modern mysteries.  If a new 'Arabian
Nights' were written, it might well be about London.  I dare say
Mr. Shopland will agree with me," he continued, turning
courteously towards the detective, "that disappearances of this
sort are not nearly so uncommon as the uninitiated would believe.
For one that is reported in the papers, there are half-a-dozen
which are not.  Your late Chief Commissioner, by-the-bye," he
added meditatively, "once a very intimate friend of mine, was my
informant."

"Where do you suppose they disappear to?" Francis enquired.

"Who can tell?" was the speculative reply.  "For an adventurous
youth there are a thousand doors which lead to romance.  Besides,
the lives of none of us are quite so simple as they seem.  Even
youth has its secret chapters.  This young man, for instance,
might be on his way to Australia, happy in the knowledge that he
has escaped from some murky chapter of life which will now never
be known.  He may write to his friends, giving them a hint.  The
whole thing will blow over."

"There may be cases such as you suggest, Sir Timothy," the
detective said quietly.  "Our investigations, so far as regards
the young man in question, however, do not point that way."

Sir Timothy turned over his cigarette to look at the name of the
maker.

"Excellent tobacco," he murmured.  "By-the-bye, what did you say
the young man's name was?"

"Reginald Wilmore," Francis told him.

"A good name," Sir Timothy murmured.  "I am sure I wish you both
every good fortune in your quest.  Would it be too much to ask
you now, Mr. Ledsam, for that single minute alone?"

"By no means," Francis answered.

"I'll wait in the office, if I may," Shopland suggested, rising
to his feet.  "I want to have another word with you before I go."

"My business with Mr. Ledsam is of a family nature," Sir Timothy
said apologetically, as Shopland passed out.  "I will not keep
him for more than a moment."

Shopland closed the door behind him.  Sir Timothy waited until he
heard his departing footsteps.  Then he turned back to Francis.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, "I have come to ask you if you know
anything of my daughter's whereabouts?"

"Nothing whatever," Francis replied.  "I was on the point of
ringing you up to ask you the same question."

"Did she tell you that she was leaving The Sanctuary?"

"She gave me not the slightest intimation of it," Francis assured
his questioner, "in fact she invited me to meet her in the rose
garden last night.  When I arrived there, she was gone.  I have
heard nothing from her since."

"You spent the evening with her?"

"To my great content."

"What happened between you?"

"Nothing happened.  I took the opportunity, however, of letting
your daughter understand the nature of my feelings for her."

"Dear me!  May I ask what they are?"

"I will translate them into facts," Francis replied.  "I wish
your daughter to become my wife."

"You amaze me!" Sir Timothy exclaimed, with the old mocking smile
at his lips.  "How can you possibly contemplate association with
the daughter of a man whom you suspect and distrust as you do
me?"

"If I suspect and distrust you, it is your own fault," Francis
reminded him.  "You have declared yourself to be a criminal and a
friend of criminals.  I am inclined to believe that you have
spoken the truth.  I care for that fact just as little as I care
for the fact that you are a millionaire, or that Margaret has
been married to a murderer.  I intend her to become my wife."

"Did you encourage her to leave me?"

"I did not.  I had not the slightest idea that she had left The
Sanctuary until Lady Cynthia told me, halfway to London this
morning."

Sir Timothy was silent for several moments.

"Have you any idea in your own mind," he persisted, "as to where
she has gone and for what purpose?"

"Not the slightest in the world," Francis declared.  "I am just
as anxious to hear from her; and to know where she is, as you
seem to be."

Sir Timothy sighed.

"I am disappointed," he admitted.  "I had hoped to obtain some
information from you.  I must try in another direction."

"Since you are here, Sir Timothy," Francis said, as his visitor
prepared to depart, "may I ask whether you have any objection to
my marrying your daughter?"

Sir Timothy frowned.

"The question places me in a somewhat difficult position," he
replied coldly.  "In a certain sense I have a liking for you.
You are not quite the ingenuous nincompoop I took you for on the
night of our first meeting.  On the other hand, you have
prejudices against me.  My harmless confession of sympathy with
criminals and their ways seems to have stirred up a cloud of
suspicion in your mind.  You even employ a detective to show the
world what a fool he can look, sitting in a punt attempting to
fish, with one eye on the supposed abode of crime."

"I have nothing whatever to do with the details of Shopland's
investigations," Francis protested.  "He is in search of Reggie
Wilmore."

"Does he think I have secret dungeons in my new abode," Sir
Timothy demanded, "or oubliettes in which I keep and starve
brainless youths for some nameless purpose?  Be reasonable, Mr.
Ledsam.  What the devil benefit could accrue to me from abducting
or imprisoning or in any way laying my criminal hand upon this
young man?"

"None whatever that we have been able to discover as yet,"
Francis admitted.

"A leaning towards melodrama, admirable in its way, needs the
leaven of a well-balanced discretion and a sense of humour," Sir
Timothy observed.  "The latter quality is as a rule singularly
absent amongst the myrmidons of Scotland Yard.  I do not think
that Mr. Shopland will catch even fish in the neighbourhood of
The Walled House.  As regards your matrimonial proposal, let us
waive that until my daughter returns."

"As you will," Francis agreed.  "I will be frank to this extent,
at any rate.  If I can persuade your daughter to marry me, your
consent will not affect the matter."

"I can leave Margaret a matter of two million pounds," Sir
Timothy said pensively.

"I have enough money to support my wife myself," Francis
observed.

"Utopian but foolish," Sir Timothy declared.  "All the same, Mr.
Ledsam, let me tell you this.  You have a curious attraction for
me.  When I was asked why I had invited you to The Sanctuary last
night, I frankly could not answer the question.  I didn't know.
I don't know.  Your dislike of me doesn't seem to affect the
question.  I was glad to have you there last night.  It pleases
me to hear you talk, to hear your views of things.  I feel that I
shall have to be very careful, Mr. Ledsam, or--"

"Or what?" Francis demanded.

"Or I shall even welcome the idea of having you for a son-in-law,"
Sir Timothy concluded reluctantly.  "Make my excuses to Mr.
Shopland.  Au revoir!"

Shopland came in as the door closed behind the departing visitor.
He listened to all that Francis had to say, without comment.

"If The Walled House," he said at last, "is so carefully guarded
that Sir Timothy has been informed of my watching the place and
has been made aware of my mild questionings, it must be because
there is something to conceal.  I may or may not be on the track
of Mr. Reginald Wilmore, but," the detective concluded, "of one
thing I am becoming convinced--The Walled House will pay for
watching."




CHAPTER XXI


It was a day when chance was kind to Francis.  After leaving his
rooms at the Temple, he made a call at one of the great clubs in
Pall Mall, to enquire as to the whereabouts of a friend.  On his
way back towards the Sheridan, he came face to face with Margaret
Hilditch, issuing from the doors of one of the great steamship
companies.  For a moment he almost failed to recognise her.  She
reminded him more of the woman of the tea-shop.  Her costume,
neat and correct though it was, was studiously unobtrusive.  Her
motoring veil, too, was obviously worn to assist her in escaping
notice.

She, too, came to a standstill at seeing him.  Her first
ejaculations betrayed a surprise which bordered on consternation.
Then Francis, with a sudden inspiration, pointed to the long
envelope which she was carrying in her hand.

"You have been to book a passage somewhere!" he exclaimed.

"Well?"

The monosyllable was in her usual level tone.  Nevertheless, he
could see that she was shaken:

"You were going away without seeing me again?"' he asked
reproachfully.

"Yes!" she admitted.

"Why?"

She looked up and down a little helplessly.

"I owe you no explanation for my conduct," she said. "Please let
me pass."

"Could we talk for a few minutes, please?" he begged.  "Tell me
where you were going?"

"Oh, back to lunch, I suppose," she answered.

"Your father has been up, looking for you," he told her.

"I telephoned to The Sanctuary," she replied.  "He had just
left."

"I am very anxious," he continued, "not to distress you, but I
cannot let you go away like this.  Will you come to my rooms and
let us talk for a little time?"

She made no answer.  Somehow, he realised that speech just then
was difficult.  He called a taxi and handed her in.  They drove
to Clarges Street in silence.  He led the way up the stairs, gave
some quick orders to his servant whom he met coming down, ushered
her into his sitting-room and saw her ensconced in an easy-chair.

"Please take off that terrible veil," he begged.

"It is pinned on to my hat," she told him.

"Then off with both," he insisted.  "You can't eat luncheon like
that.  I'm not going to try and bully you.  If you've booked your
passage to Timbuctoo and you really want to go--why, you must.  I
only want the chance of letting you know that I am coming after
you."

She took off her hat and veil and threw them on to the sofa,
glancing sideways at a mirror let into the door of a cabinet.

"My hair is awful," she declared:

He laughed gaily, and turned around from the sideboard, where he
was busy mixing cocktails.

"Thank heavens for that touch of humanity!" he exclaimed.  "A
woman who can bother about her hair when she takes her hat off,
is never past praying for.  Please drink this."

She obeyed.  He took the empty glass away from her.  Then he came
over to the hearthrug by her side.

"Do you know that I kissed you last night?" he reminded her.

"I do," she answered.  "That is why I have just paid eighty-four
pounds for a passage to Buenos Ayres."

"I should have enjoyed the trip," he said.  "Still, I'm glad I
haven't to go."

"Do you really mean that you would have come after me?" she asked
curiously.

"Of course I should," he assured her.  "Believe me, there isn't
such an obstinate person in the world as the man of early
middle-age who suddenly discovers the woman he means to marry."

"But you can't marry me," she protested.

"Why not?" he asked.

"Because I was Oliver Hilditch's wife, for one thing."

"Look here," he said, "if you had been Beelzebub's wife, it
wouldn't make the least difference to me.  You haven't given me
much of a chance to tell you so yet, Margaret, but I love you."

She sat a little forward in her chair.  Her eyes were fixed upon
his wonderingly.

"But how can you?" she exclaimed.  "You know, nothing of me except
my associations, and they have been horrible.  What is there to
love in me?  I am a frozen-up woman.  Everything is dead here,"
she went on, clasping her hand to her heart.  "I have no
sentiment, no passion, nothing but an animal desire to live my
life luxuriously and quickly."

He smiled confidently.  Then, with very little warning, he sank
on one knee, drew her face to his, kissed her lips and then her
eyes.

"Are you so sure of all these things, Margaret?" he whispered.
"Don't you think it is, perhaps, because there has been no one to
care for you as I do--as I shall--to the end of my days?  The
lily you left on your chair last night was like you--fair and
stately and beautiful, but a little bruised.  You will come back
as it has done, come back to the world.  My love will bring you.
My care.  Believe it, please!"

Then he saw the first signs of change in her face.  There was
the faintest shade of almost shell-like pink underneath the
creamy-white of her cheeks.  Her lips were trembling a little,
her eyes were misty.  With a sudden passionate little impulse,
her arms were around his neck, her lips sought his of their
own accord.

"Let me forget," she sobbed.  "Kiss me let me forget!"

Francis' servant was both heavy-footed and discreet.  When he
entered the room with a tray, his master was standing at the
sideboard.

"I've done the best I could, sir," he announced, a little
apologetically.  "Shall I lay the cloth?"

"Leave everything on the tray, Brooks," Francis directed.  "We
will help ourselves.  In an hour's time bring coffee."

The man glanced around the room.

"There are glasses on the sideboard, sir, and the corkscrew is
here.  I think you will have everything you want."

He departed, closing the door behind him.  Francis held out his
hands to Margaret.  She rose slowly to her feet, looked in the
glass helplessly and then back at him.  She was very beautiful
but a little dazed.

"Are we going to have luncheon?" she asked.

"Of course," he answered.  "Did you think I meant to starve you?"

He picked up the long envelope which she had dropped upon the
carpet, and threw it on to the sofa.  Then he drew up two chairs
to the table, and opened a small bottle of champagne.

"I hope you won't mind a picnic," he said.  "Really, Brooks
hasn't done so badly--pate de foie gras, hot toast and Devonshire
butter.  Let me spread some for you.  A cold chicken afterwards,
and some strawberries.  Please be hungry, Margaret."

She laughed at him.  It occurred to him suddenly, with a little
pang, that he had never heard her laugh before.  It was like
music.

"I'm too happy," she murmured.

"Believe me," he assured her, as he buttered a piece of toast,
"happiness and hunger might well be twins.  They go so well
together.  Misery can take away one's appetite.  Happiness, when
one gets over the gulpiness of it, is the best tonic in the
world.  And I never saw any one, dear, with whom happiness agreed
so well," he added, pausing in his task to bend over and kiss
her.  "Do you know you are the most beautiful thing on earth?  It
is a lucky thing we are going to live in England, and that these
are sober, matter-of-fact days, or I should find myself committed
to fighting duels all the time."

She had a momentary relapse.  A look of terror suddenly altered
her face.  She caught at his wrist.

"Don't!" she cried.  "Don't talk about such things!"

He was a little bewildered.  The moment passed.  She laughed
almost apologetically.

"Forgive me," she begged, "but I hate the thought of fighting of
any sort.  Some day I'll explain."

"Clumsy ass I was!" he declared, completing his task and setting
the result before her.  "Now how's that for a first course?
Drink a little of your wine."

He leaned his glass against hers.

"My love," he whispered, "my love now, dear, and always, and
you'll find it quite strong enough," he went on, "to keep you
from all the ugly things.  And now away with sentiment.  I had a
very excellent but solitary breakfast this morning, and it seems
a long time ago."

"It seems amazing to think that you spent last night at The
Sanctuary," she reflected.

"And that you and I were in a punt," he reminded her, "in the
pool of darkness where the trees met, and the lilies leaned over
to us."

"And you nearly upset the punt."

"Nothing of the sort!  As a matter of fact, I was very careful.
But," he proceeded, with a sudden wave of memory, "I don't think
my heart will ever beat normally again.  It seemed as though it
would tear its way out of my side when I leaned towards you, and
you knew, and you lay still."

She laughed.

"You surely didn't expect I was going to get up?  It was quite
encouragement enough to remain passive.  As a matter of fact,"
she went on, "I couldn't have moved.  I couldn't have uttered a
sound.  I suppose I must have been like one of those poor birds
you read about, when some devouring animal crouches for its last
spring."

"Compliments already!" he remarked.  "You won't forget that my
name is Francis, will you?  Try and practise it while I carve the
chicken."

"You carve very badly, Francis," she told him demurely.

"My dear," he said, "thank heavens we shall be able to afford a
butler!  By-the-bye, I told your father this morning that I was
going to marry you, and he didn't seem to think it possible
because he had two million pounds."

"Braggart!" she murmured.  "When did you see my father?"

"He came to my rooms in the Temple soon after I arrived this
morning.  He seemed to think I might know where you were.  I dare
say he won't like me for a son-in-law," Francis continued with a
smile.  "I can't help that.  He shouldn't have let me go out with
you in a punt."

There was a discreet knock at the door.  Brooks made his
apologetic and somewhat troubled entrance.

"Sir Timothy Brast is here to see you, sir," he announced.
"I ventured to say that you were not at home--"

"But I happened to know otherwise," a still voice remarked from
outside.  "May I come in, Mr. Ledsam?"

Sir Timothy stepped past the servant, who at a sign from Francis
disappeared, closing the door behind him.




CHAPTER XXII


After his first glance at Sir Timothy, Francis' only thought was
for Margaret.  To his intense relief, she showed no signs
whatever of terror, or of any relapse to her former state.  She
was entirely mistress of herself and the occasion.  Sir Timothy's
face was cold and terrible.

"I must apologise for this second intrusion, Mr. Ledsam," he said
cuttingly.  "I think you will admit that the circumstances
warrant it.  Am I to understand that you lied to me this
morning?"

"You are to understand nothing of the sort," Francis answered.
"I told you everything I knew at that time of your daughter's
movements."

"Indeed!" Sir Timothy murmured.  "This little banquet, then, was
unpremeditated?"

"Entirely," Francis replied.  "Here is the exact truth, so far as
I am concerned.  I met your daughter little more than an hour
ago, coming out of a steamship office, where she had booked a
passage to Buenos Ayres to get away from me.  I was fortunate
enough to induce her to change her mind.  She has consented
instead to remain in England as my wife.  We were, as you see,
celebrating the occasion."

Sir Timothy laid his hat upon the sideboard and slowly removed
his gloves.

"I trust," he said, "that this pint bottle does not represent
your cellar.  I will drink a glass of wine with you, and with
your permission make myself a pate sandwich.  I was just sitting
down to luncheon when I received the information which brought me
here."

Francis produced another bottle of wine from the sideboard and
filled his visitor's glass.

"You will drink, I hope, to our happiness," he said.

"I shall do nothing of the sort," Sir Timothy declared, helping
himself with care to the pate.  "I have no superstitions about
breaking bread with an enemy, or I should not have asked you to
visit me at The Sanctuary, Mr. Ledsam.  I object to your marriage
with my daughter, and I shall take what steps I can to prevent
it."

"Why?"

Sir Timothy did not at once reply.  He seemed to be enjoying his
sandwich; he also appreciated the flavour of his wine.

"Your question," he said, "strikes me as being a little
ingenuous.  You are at the present moment suspecting me of crimes
beyond number.  You encourage Scotland Yard detectives to make
asses of themselves in my stream.  Your myrmidons scramble on to
the top of my walls and try to bribe my servants to disclose the
mysteries of my household.  You have accepted to the fullest
extent my volunteered statement that I am a patron of crime.  You
are, in short--forgive me if I help myself to a little more of
this pate--engaged in a strenuous attempt to bring me to
justice."

"None of these things affects your daughter," Francis pointed out.

"Pardon me," Sir Timothy objected.  "You are a great and shining
light of the English law.  People speak of you as a future
Chancellor.  How can you contemplate an alliance with the widow
of one criminal and the daughter of another?"

"As to Margaret being Oliver Hilditch's widow," Francis replied,
"you were responsible for that, and no one else.  He was your
protege; you gave your consent to the marriage.  As to your being
her father, that again is not Margaret's fault.  I should marry
her if Oliver Hilditch had been three times the villain he was,
and if you were the Devil himself."

"I am getting quite to like you, Mr. Ledsam," Sir Timothy
declared, helping himself to another piece of toast and
commencing to butter it.  "Margaret, what have you to say about
all this?"

"I have nothing to say," she answered.  "Francis is speaking for
me.  I never dreamed that after what I have gone through I should
be able to care for any one again in this world.  I do care, and
I am very happy about it.  All last night I lay awake, making up
my mind to run away, and this morning I actually booked my
passage to Buenos Ayres.  Then we met--just outside the steamship
office--and I knew at once that I was making a mistake.  I shall
marry Francis exactly when he wants me to."

Sir Timothy passed his glass towards his proposed son-in-law.

"Might one suggest," he began--"thank you very much.  This is of
course very upsetting to me.  I seem to be set completely at
defiance.  It is a very excellent wine, this, and a wonderful
vintage."

Francis bent over Margaret.

"Please finish your lunch, dear," he begged.  "It is perhaps just
as well that your father came.  We shall know exactly where we
are."

"Just so," Sir Timothy agreed.

There was a queer constrained silence for several moments.  Then
Sir Timothy leaned back in his chair and with a word of apology
lit a cigarette.

"Let us," he said, "consider the situation.  Margaret is my
daughter.  You wish to marry her.  Margaret is of age and has
been married before.  She is at liberty, therefore, to make her
own choice.  You agree with me so far?"

"Entirely," Francis assented.

"It happens," Sir Timothy went on, "that I disapprove of her
choice.  She desires to marry a young man who belongs to a
profession which I detest, and whose efforts in life are directed
towards the extermination of a class of people for whom I have
every sympathy.  To me he represents the smug as against the
human, the artificially moral as against the freethinker.  He is
also my personal enemy.  I am therefore naturally desirous that
my daughter should not marry this young man."

"We will let it go at that," Francis commented, "but I should
like to point out to you that the antagonism between us is in no
way personal.  You have declared yourself for forces with which I
am at enmity, like any other decent-living citizen.  Your
declaration might at any time be amended."

Sir Timothy bowed.

"The situation is stated," he said.  "I will ask you this
question as a matter of form.  Do you recognise my right to
forbid your marriage with my daughter, Mr. Ledsam?"

"I most certainly do not," was the forcible reply.

"Have I any rights at all?" Sir Timothy asked.  "Margaret has
lived under my roof whenever it has suited her to do so.  Since
she has taken up her residence at Curzon Street, she has been her
own mistress, her banking account has known no limit whatsoever.
I may be a person of evil disposition, but I have shown no
unkindness to her."

"It is quite true," Margaret Admitted, turning a little pale.
"Since I have been alone, you have been kindness itself."

"Then let me repeat my question," Sir Timothy went on, "have I
the right to any consideration at all?"

"Yes," Francis replied.  "Short of keeping us apart, you have the
ordinary rights of a parent."

"Then I ask you to delay the announcement of your engagement, or
taking any further steps concerning it, for fourteen days," Sir
Timothy said.  "I place no restrictions on your movements during
that time.  Such hospitality as you, Mr. Ledsam, care to accept
at my hands, is at your disposal.  I am Bohemian enough, indeed,
to find nothing to complain of in such little celebrations as you
are at present indulging in--most excellent pate, that.  But I
request that no announcement of your engagement be made, or any
further arrangements made concerning it, for that fourteen days."

"I am quite willing, father," Margaret acquiesced.

"And I, sir," Francis echoed.

"In which case," Sir Timothy concluded, rising to his feet,
lighting a cigarette and taking up his hat and gloves, "I shall
go peaceably away.  You will admit, I trust," he added, with that
peculiar smile at the corner of his lips, "that I have not in any
way tried to come the heavy father?  I can even command a certain
amount of respect, Margaret, for a young man who is able to
inaugurate his engagement by an impromptu meal of such perfection.
I wish you both good morning.  Any invitation which Margaret
extends, Ledsam, please consider as confirmed by me."

He closed the door softly.  They heard his footsteps descending
the stairs.  Francis leaned once more over Margaret.  She seemed
still dazed, confused with new thoughts.  She responded, however,
readily to his touch, yielded to his caress with an almost
pathetic eagerness.

"Francis," she murmured, as his arms closed around her, "I want
to forget."




CHAPTER XXIII


There followed a brief period of time, the most wonderful of his
life, the happiest of hers.  They took advantage of Sir Timothy's
absolute license, and spent long days at The Sanctuary, ideal
lovers' days, with their punt moored at night amongst the lilies,
where her kisses seemed to come to him with an aroma and wonder
born of the spot.  Then there came a morning when he found a
cloud on her face.  She was looking at the great wall, and away
at the minaret beyond.  They had heard from the butler that Sir
Timothy had spent the night at the villa, and that preparations
were on hand for another of his wonderful parties.  Francis, who
was swift to read her thoughts, led her away into the rose garden
where once she had failed him.

"You have been looking over the wall, Margaret," he said
reproachfully.

She looked at him with a little twitch at the corners of her
lips.

"Francis dear," she confessed, "I am afraid you are right.  I
cannot even look towards The Walled House without wondering why
it was built--or catch a glimpse of that dome without stupid
guesses as to what may go on underneath."

"I think very likely," he said soothingly, "we have both
exaggerated the seriousness of your father's hobbies.  We know
that he has a wonderful gymnasium there, but the only definite
rumour I have ever heard about the place is that men fight there
who have a grudge against one another, and that they are not too
particular about the weight of the gloves.  That doesn't appeal
to us, you know, Margaret, but it isn't criminal."

"If that were all!" she murmured.

"I dare say it is," he declared.  "London, as you know, is a
hot-bed of gossip.  Everything that goes on is ridiculously
exaggerated, and I think that it rather appeals to your father's
curious sense of humour to pose as the law-breaker."

She pressed his arm a little.  The day was overcast, a slight
rain was beginning to fall.

"Francis," she whispered, "we had a perfect day here yesterday.
Now the sun has gone and I am shivery."

He understood in a moment.

"We'll lunch at Ranelagh," he suggested.  "It is almost on the
way up.  Then we can see what the weather is like.  If it is bad,
we can dine in town tonight and do a theatre."

"You are a dear," she told him fervently.  "I am going in to get
ready."

Francis went round to the garage for his car, and brought it to
the front.  While he was sitting there, Sir Timothy came through
the door in the wall.  He was smoking a cigar and he was holding
an umbrella to protect his white flannel suit.  He was as usual
wonderfully groomed and turned out, but he walked as though he
were tired, and his smile, as he greeted Francis, lacked a little
of its usual light-hearted mockery.

"Are you going up to town?" he enquired.

Francis pointed to the grey skies.

"Just for the day," he answered.  "Lady Cynthia went by the early
train.  We missed you last night."

"I came down late," Sir Timothy explained, "and I found it more
convenient to stay at The Walled House.  I hope you find that
Grover looks after you while I am away?  He has carte blanche so
far as regards my cellar."

"We have been wonderfully served," Francis assured him.

In the distance they could hear the sound of hammering on the
other side of the wall.  Francis moved his head in that
direction.

"I hear that they are preparing for another of your wonderful
entertainments over there," he remarked.

"On Thursday," Sir Timothy assented.  "I shall have something to
say to you about it later on."

"Am I to take it that I am likely to receive an invitation?"
Francis asked.

"I should think it possible," was the calm reply.

"What about Margaret?"

"My entertainment would not appeal to her," Sir Timothy declared.
"The women whom I have been in the habit of asking are not women
of Margaret's type."

"And Lady Cynthia?"

Sir Timothy frowned slightly.

"I find myself in some difficulty as regards Lady Cynthia," he
admitted.  "I am the guardian of nobody's morals, nor am I the
censor of their tastes, but my entertainments are for men.  The
women whom I have hitherto asked have been women in whom I have
taken no personal interest.  They are necessary to form a
picturesque background for my rooms, in the same way that I look
to the gardeners to supply the floral decorations.  Lady
Cynthia's instincts, however, are somewhat adventurous.  She
would scarcely be content to remain a decoration."

"The issuing of your invitations," Francis remarked, "is of
course a matter which concerns nobody else except yourself.  If
you do decide to favour me with one, I shall be delighted to
come, provided Margaret has no objection."

"Such a reservation promises well for the future," Sir Timothy
observed, with gentle sarcasm.  "Here comes Margaret, looking
very well, I am glad to see."

Margaret came forward to greet her father before stepping into
the car.  They exchanged only a few sentences, but Francis, whose
interest in their relations was almost abnormally keen, fancied
that he could detect signs of some change in their demeanour
towards one another.  The cold propriety of deportment which had
characterised her former attitude towards her father, seemed to
have given place to something more uncertain, to something less
formal, something which left room even for a measure of
cordiality.  She looked at him differently.  It was as though
some evil thought which lived in her heart concerning him had
perished.

"You are busy over there, father?" she asked.

"In a way," he replied.  "We are preparing for some festivities
on Thursday."

Her face fell.

"Another party?"

"One more," he replied.  "Perhaps the last--for the present, at
any rate."

She waited as though expecting him to explain.  He changed the
subject, however.

"I think you are wise to run up to town this morning," he said,
glancing up at the grey skies.  "By-the-bye, if you dine at
Curzon Street to-night, do ask Hedges to serve you some of the
'99 Cliquot.  A marvellous wine, as you doubtless know, Ledsam,
but it should be drunk.  Au revoir!"


Francis, after a pleasant lunch at Ranelagh, and having arranged
with Margaret to dine with her in Curzon Street, spent an hour or
two that afternoon at his chambers.  As he was leaving, just
before five, he came face to face with Shopland descending from a
taxi.

"Are you busy, Mr. Ledsam?" the latter enquired.  "Can you spare
me half-an-hour?"

"An hour, if you like," Francis assented.

Shopland gave the driver an address and the two men seated
themselves in the taxicab.

"Any news?" Francis asked curiously.

"Not yet," was the cautious reply.  "It will not be long,
however."

"Before you discover Reggie Wilmore?"

The detective smiled in a superior way.

"I am no longer particularly interested in Mr. Reginald Wilmore,"
he declared.  "I have come to the conclusion that his disappearance
is not a serious affair."

"It's serious enough for his relatives," Francis objected.

"Not if they understood the situation," the detective rejoined.
"Assure them from me that nothing of consequence has happened to
that young man.  I have made enquiries at the gymnasium in
Holborn, and in other directions.  I am convinced that his
absence from home is voluntary, and that there is no cause for
alarm as to his welfare."

"Then the sooner you make your way down to Kensington and tell
his mother so, the better," Francis said, a little severely.
"Don't forget that I put you on to this."

"Quite right, sir," the detective acquiesced, "and I am grateful
to you.  The fact of it is that in making my preliminary
investigations with regard to the disappearance of Mr. Wilmore, I
have stumbled upon a bigger thing.  Before many weeks are past, I
hope to be able to unearth one of the greatest scandals of modern
times."

"The devil!" Francis muttered.

He looked thoughtfully, almost anxiously at his companion.
Shopland's face reflected to the full his usual confidence.
He had the air of a man buoyant with hope and with stifled
self-satisfaction.

"I am engaged," he continued, "upon a study of the methods and
habits of one whom I believe to be a great criminal.  I think
that when I place my prisoner in the bar, Wainwright and these
other great artists in crime will fade from the memory."

"Is Sir Timothy Brast your man?" Francis asked quietly.

His companion frowned portentously.

"No names," he begged.

"Considering that it was I who first put you on to him," Francis
expostulated, "I don't think you need be so sparing of your
confidence."

"Mr. Ledsam," the detective assured him, "I shall tell you
everything that is possible.  At the same time, I will be frank
with you.  You are right when you say that it was you who first
directed my attention towards Sir Timothy Brast.  Since that
time, however, your own relations with him, to an onlooker, have
become a little puzzling."

"I see," Francis murmured.  "You've been spying on me?"

Shopland shook his head in deprecating fashion.

"A study of Sir Timothy during the last month," he said, "has
brought you many a time into the focus."

"Where are we going to now?" Francis asked, a little abruptly.

"Just a side show, sir.  It's one of those outside things I have
come across which give light and shade to the whole affair.  We
get out here, if you please."

The two men stepped on to the pavement.  They were in a street a
little north of Wardour Street, where the shops for the most part
were of a miscellaneous variety.  Exactly in front of them, the
space behind a large plate-glass window had been transformed into
a sort of show-place for dogs.  There were twenty or thirty of
them there, of all breeds and varieties.

"What the mischief is this?" Francis demanded.

"Come in and make enquiries," Shopland replied.  "I can promise
that you will find it interesting.  It's a sort of dog's home."

Francis followed his companion into the place.  A pleasant-looking,
middle-aged woman came forward and greeted the latter.

"Do you mind telling my friend what you told me the other day?"
he asked.

"Certainly, sir," she replied.  "We collect stray animals here,
sir," she continued, turning to Francis.  "Every one who has a
dog or a cat he can't afford to keep, or which he wants to get
rid of, may bring it to us.  We have agents all the time in the
streets, and if any official of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals brings us news of a dog or a cat being
ill-treated, we either purchase it or acquire it in some way or
other and keep it here."

"But your dogs in the window," Francis observed, "all seem to be
in wonderful condition."

The woman smiled.

"We have a large dog and cat hospital behind," she explained,
"and a veterinary surgeon who is always in attendance.  The
animals are treated there as they are brought in, and fed up if
they are out of condition.  When they are ready to sell, we show
them."

"But is this a commercial undertaking," Francis enquired
carefully, "or is it a branch of the S.P.C.A.?"

"It's quite a private affair, sir," the woman told him.  "We
charge only five shillings for the dogs and half-a-crown for the
cats, but every one who has one must sign our book, promising to
give it a good home, and has to be either known to us or to
produce references.  We do not attempt, of course, to snake a
profit."

"Who on earth is responsible for the upkeep?"

"We are not allowed to mention any names here, sir, but as a
matter of fact I think that your friend knows.  He met the
gentleman in here one day.  Would you care to have a look at the
hospital, sir?"

Francis spent a quarter of an hour wandering around.  When they
left the place, Shopland turned to him with a smile.

"Now, sir," he said, "shall I tell you at whose expense that
place is run?"

"I think I can guess," Francis replied.  "I should say that Sir
Timothy Brast was responsible for it."

The detective nodded.  He was a little disappointed.

"You know about his collection of broken-down horses in the park
at The Walled House, too, then, I suppose?  They come whinnying
after him like a flock of sheep whenever he shows himself."

"I know about them, too," Francis admitted.  "I was present
once when he got out of his car, knocked a carter down who was
ill-treating a horse, bought it on the spot and sent it home."

Shopland smiled, inscrutably yet with the air of one vastly
pleased.

"These little side-shows," he said, "are what help to make this,
which I believe will be the greatest case of my life, so
supremely interesting.  Any one of my fraternity," he continued,
with an air of satisfaction, "can take hold of a thread and
follow it step by step, and wind up with the handcuffs, as I did
myself with the young man Fairfax.  But a case like this, which
includes a study of temperament, requires something more."

They were seated once more in the taxicab, on their way westward.
Francis for the first time was conscious of an utterly new
sensation with regard to his companion.  He watched him through
half-closed eyes--an insignificant-looking little man whose
clothes, though neat, were ill-chosen, and whose tie was an
offense.  There was nothing in the face to denote unusual
intelligence, but the eyes were small and cunning and the mouth
dogged.  Francis looked away out of the window.  A sudden flash
of realisation had come to him, a wave of unreasoning but
positive dislike.

"When do you hope to bring your case to an end?" he asked.

The man smiled once more, and the very smile irritated his
companion.

"Within the course of the next few days, sir," he replied.

"And the charge?"

The detective turned around.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, "we have been old friends, if you will
allow me to use the word, ever since I was promoted to my present
position in the Force.  You have trusted me with a good many
cases, and I acknowledge myself your debtor, but in the matter of
Sir Timothy Brast, you will forgive my saying with all respect,
sir, that our ways seem to lie a little apart."

"Will you tell me why you have arrived at that conclusion?"
Francis asked.  "It was I who first incited you to set a watch
upon Sir Timothy.  It was to you I first mentioned certain
suspicions I myself had with regard to him.  I treated you with
every confidence.  Why do you now withhold yours from me?"

"It is quite true, Mr. Ledsam," Shopland admitted, "that it was
you who first pointed out Sir Timothy as an interesting study for
my profession, but that was a matter of months ago.  If you will
forgive my saying so, your relations with Sir Timothy have
altered since then.  You have been his guest at The Sanctuary,
and there is a rumour, sir--you will pardon me if I seem to be
taking a liberty--that you are engaged to be married to his
daughter, Oliver Hilditch's widow."

"You seem to be tolerably well informed as to my affairs,
Shopland," Francis remarked.

"Only so far as regards your associations with Sir Timothy," was
the deprecating reply.  "If you will excuse me, sir, this is
where I should like to descend."

"You have no message for Mr. Wilmore, then?" Francis asked.

"Nothing definite, sir, but you can assure him of this.  His
brother is not likely to come to any particular harm.  I have no
absolute information to offer, but it is my impression that Mr.
Reginald Wilmore will be home before a week is past.  Good
afternoon, sir."

Shopland stepped out of the taxicab and, raising his hat, walked
quickly away.  Francis directed the man to drive to Clarges
Street.  As they drove off, he was conscious of a folded piece of
paper in the corner where his late companion had been seated.  He
picked it up, opened it, realised that it was a letter from a
firm of lawyers, addressed to Shopland, and deliberately read it
through.  It was dated from a small town not far from Hatch End:


  DEAR SIR:

  Mr. John Phillips of this firm, who is coroner for the
district, has desired me to answer the enquiry contained    in
your official letter of the 13th.  The number of    inquests held
upon bodies recovered from the Thames in the    neighbourhood to
which you allude, during the present year    has been seven.
Four of these have been identified.     Concerning the remaining
three nothing has ever been    heard.  Such particulars as are on
our file will be    available to any accredited representative of
the police    at any time.

                    Faithfully yours,
                                    PHILLIPS & SON.


The taxicab came to a sudden stop.  Francis glanced up.  Very
breathless, Shopland put his head in at the window.

"I dropped a letter," he gasped.

Francis folded it up and handed it to him.

"What about these three unidentified people, Shopland?" he asked,
looking at him intently.

The man frowned angrily.  There was a note of defiance in his
tone as he stowed the letter away in his pocketbook.

"There were two men and one woman," he replied, "all three of the
upper classes.  The bodies were recovered from Wilson's lock,
some three hundred yards from The Walled House."

"Do they form part of your case?" Francis persisted.

Shopland stepped back.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, "I told you, some little time ago, that so
far as this particular case was concerned I had no confidences to
share with you.  I am sorry that you saw that letter.  Since you
did, however, I hope you will not take it as a liberty from one
in my position if I advise you most strenuously to do nothing
which might impede the course of the law.  Good day, sir!"




CHAPTER XXIV


Francis, in that pleasant half-hour before dinner which he spent
in Margaret's sitting-room, told her of the dogs' home near
Wardour Street.  She listened sympathetically to his description
of the place.

"I had never heard of it," she acknowledged, "but I am not in
anyway surprised.  My father spends at least an hour of every
day, when he is down at Hatch End, amongst the horses, and every
time a fresh crock is brought down, he is as interested as though
it were a new toy."

"It is a remarkable trait in a very remarkable character,"
Francis commented.

"I could tell you many things that would surprise you," Margaret
continued.  "One night, for instance, when we were staying at The
Sanctuary, he and I were going out to dine with some neighbours
and he heard a cat mewing in the hedge somewhere.  He stopped the
car, got out himself, found that the cat had been caught in a
trap, released it, and sent me on to the dinner alone whilst he
took the animal back to the veterinary surgeon at The Walled
House.  He was simply white with fury whilst he was tying up the
poor thing's leg.  I couldn't help asking him what he would have
done if he could have found the farmer who set the trap.  He
looked up at me and I was almost frightened.  'I should have
killed him,' he said,--and I believe he meant it.  And, Francis,
the very next day we were motoring to London and saw a terrible
accident.  A motor bicyclist came down a side road at full speed
and ran into a motor-lorry.  My father got out of the car, helped
them lift the body from under the wheels of the lorry, and came
back absolutely unmoved.  'Serve the silly young fool right!' was
his only remark.  He was so horribly callous that I could
scarcely bear to sit by his side.  Do you understand that?"

"It isn't easy," he admitted.

There was a knock at the door.  Margaret glanced at the clock.

"Surely dinner can't be served already!" she exclaimed.  "Come
in."

Very much to their surprise, it was Sir Timothy himself who
entered.  He was in evening dress and wearing several orders, one
of which Francis noted with surprise.

"My apologies," he said.  "Hedges told me that there were
cocktails here, and as I am on my way to a rather weary dinner, I
thought I might inflict myself upon you for a moment."

Margaret rose at once to her feet.

"I am a shocking hostess," she declared.  "Hedges brought the
things in twenty minutes ago."

She took up the silver receptacle, shook it vigorously and filled
three glasses.  Sir Timothy accepted his and bowed to them both.

"My best wishes," he said.  "Really, when one comes to think of
it, however much it may be against my inclinations I scarcely see
how I shall be able to withhold my consent.  I believe that you
both have at heart the flair for domesticity.  This little
picture, and the thought of your tete-a-tete dinner, almost
touches me."

"Don't make fun of us, father," Margaret begged.  "Tell us where
you are going in all that splendour?"

Sir Timothy shrugged his shoulders.

"A month or so ago," he explained, "I was chosen to induct a
scion of Royalty into the understanding of fighting as it is
indulged in at the National Sporting Club.  This, I suppose, is
my reward--an invitation to something in the nature of a State
dinner, which, to tell you the truth, I had forgotten until my
secretary pointed it out to me this afternoon.  I have grave
fears of being bored or of misbehaving myself.  I have, as Ledsam
here knows, a distressing habit of truthfulness, especially to
new acquaintances.  However, we must hope for the best.  By-the-bye,
Ledsam, in case you should have forgotten, I have spoken to Hedges
about the '99 Cliquot."

"Shall we see you here later?" Margaret asked, after Francis had
murmured his thanks.

"I shall probably return direct to Hatch End," Sir Timothy
replied.  "There are various little matters down there which are
interesting me just now preparations for my party.  Au revoir!  A
delicious cocktail, but I am inclined to resent the Angostura."

He sauntered out, after a glance at the clock.  They heard his
footsteps as he descended the stairs.

"Tell me, what manner of a man is your father?" Francis asked
impulsively.

"I am his daughter and I do not know," Margaret answered.
"Before he came, I was going to speak to you of a strange
misunderstanding which has existed between us and which has just
been removed.  Now I have a fancy to leave it until later.  You
will not mind?"

"When you choose," Francis assented.  "Nothing will make any
difference.  We are past the days when fathers or even mothers
count seriously in the things that exist between two people like
you and me, who have felt life.  Whatever your father may be,
whatever he may turn out to be, you are the woman I love--you are
the woman who is going to be my wife."

She leaned towards him for a moment.

"You have an amazing gift," she whispered, "of saying just the
thing one loves to hear in the way that convinces."

Dinner was served to them in the smaller of the two dining-rooms,
an exquisite meal, made more wonderful still by the wine, which
Hedges himself dispensed with jealous care.  The presence of
servants, with its restraining influence upon conversation, was
not altogether unwelcome to Francis.  He and Margaret had had so
little opportunity for general conversation that to discuss other
than personal subjects in this pleasant, leisurely way had its
charm.  They spoke of music, of which she knew far more than he;
of foreign travel, where they met on common ground, for each had
only the tourist's knowledge of Europe, and each was anxious for
a more individual acquaintance with it.  She had tastes in books
which delighted him, a knowledge of games which promised a common
resource.  It was only whilst they were talking that he realised
with a shock how young she was, how few the years that lay
between her serene school-days and the tempestuous years of her
married life.  Her school-days in Naples were most redolent of
delightful memories.  She broke off once or twice into the
language, and he listened with delight to her soft accent.
Finally the time came when dessert was set upon the table.

"I have ordered coffee up in the little sitting-room again," she
said, a little shyly.  "Do you mind, or would you rather have it
here?"

"I much prefer it there," he assured her.

They sat before an open window, looking out upon some elm trees
in the boughs of which town sparrows twittered, and with a
background of roofs and chimneys.  Margaret's coffee was
untasted, even her cigarette lay unlit by her side.  There was a
touch of the old horror upon her face.  The fingers which he drew
into his were as cold as ice.

"You must have wondered sometimes," she began, "why I ever
married Oliver Hilditch."

"You were very young," he reminded her, with a little shiver,
"and very inexperienced.  I suppose he appealed to you in some
way or another."

"It wasn't that," she replied.  "He came to visit, me at
Eastbourne, and he certainly knew all the tricks of making
himself attractive and agreeable.  But he never won my heart--he
never even seriously took my fancy.  I married him because I
believed that by doing so I was obeying my father's wishes."

"Where was your father at the time, then?" Francis asked.

"In South America.  Oliver Hilditch was nothing more than a
discharged employ of his, discharged for dishonesty.  He had to
leave South America; within a week to escape prosecution, and on
the way to Europe he concocted the plot which very nearly ruined
my life.  He forged a letter from my father, begging me, if I
found it in any way possible,  to listen to Oliver Hilditch's
proposals, and hinting guardedly at a very serious financial
crisis which it was in his power to avert.  It never occurred to
me or to my chaperon to question his bona fides.  He had lived
under the same roof as my father, and knew all the intimate
details of his life.  He was very clever and I suppose I was a
fool.  I remember thinking I was doing quite a heroic action when
I went to the registrar with him.  What it led to you know."

There was a moment's throbbing silence.  Francis, notwithstanding
his deep pity, was conscious of an overwhelming sensation of
relief.  She had never cared for Oliver Hilditch!  She had never
pretended to!  He put the thought into words.

"You never cared for him, then?"

"I tried to," she replied simply, "but I found it impossible.
Within a week of our marriage I hated him."

Francis leaned back, his eyes half closed.  In his ears was the
sonorous roar of Piccadilly, the hooting of motor-cars, close at
hand the rustling of a faint wind in the elm trees.  It was a
wonderful moment.  The nightmare with which he had grappled so
fiercely, which he had overthrown, but whose ghost still
sometimes walked by his side, had lost its chief and most
poignant terror.  She had been tricked into the marriage.  She
had never cared or pretended to care.  The primal horror of that
tragedy which he had figured so often to himself, seemed to have
departed with the thought.  Its shadow must always remain, but in
time his conscience would acquiesce in the pronouncement of his
reason.  It was the hand of justice, not any human hand, which
had slain Oliver Hilditch.

"What did your father say when he discovered the truth?" he
asked.

"He did not know it until he came to England--on the day that
Oliver Hilditch was acquitted.  My husband always pretended that
he had a special mail bag going out to South America, so he took
away all the letters I wrote to my father, and he took care that
I received none except one or two which I know now were
forgeries.  He had friends in South America himself who helped
him--one a typist in my father's office, of whom I discovered
afterwards--but that really doesn't matter.  He was a wonderful
master of deceit."

Francis suddenly took her hands.  He had an overwhelming desire
to escape from the miasma of those ugly days, with their train of
attendant thoughts and speculations.

"Let us talk about ourselves," he whispered.

After that, the evening glided away incoherently, with no sustained
conversation, but with an increasing sense of well-being, of soothed
nerves and happiness, flaming seconds of passion, sign-posts of the
wonderful world which lay before them.  They sat in the cool silence
until the lights of the returning taxicabs and motor-cars became
more frequent, until the stars crept into the sky and the yellow
arc of the moon stole up over the tops of the houses.  Presently
they saw Sir Timothy's Rolls-Royce glide up to the front door below
and Sir Timothy himself enter the house, followed by another man
whose appearance was somehow familiar.

"Your father has changed his mind," Francis observed.

"Perhaps he has called for something," she suggested, "or he may
want to change his clothes before he goes down to the country."

Presently, however, there was a knock at the door.  Hedges made
his diffident appearance.

"I beg your pardon, sir," he began, addressing Francis.  "Sir
Timothy has been asking if you are still here.  He would be very
glad if you could spare him a moment in the library."

Francis rose at once to his feet.

"I was just leaving," he said.  "I will look in at the library
and see Sir Timothy on my way out."




CHAPTER XXV


Sir Timothy was standing upon the hearthrug of the very wonderful
apartment which he called his library.  By his side, on a black
marble pedestal, stood a small statue by Rodin.  Behind him, lit
by a shielded electric light, was a Vandyck, "A Portrait of a
Gentleman Unknown," and Francis, as he hesitated for a moment
upon the threshold, was struck by a sudden quaint likeness
between the face of the man in the picture, with his sunken
cheeks, his supercilious smile, his narrowed but powerful eyes,
to the face of Sir Timothy himself.  There was something of the
same spirit there--the lawless buccaneer, perhaps the criminal.

"You asked for me, Sir Timothy," Francis said.

Sir Timothy smiled.

"I was fortunate to find that you had not left," he answered.  "I
want you to be present at this forthcoming interview.  You are to
a certain extent in the game.  I thought it might amuse you."

Francis for the first time was aware that his host was not alone.
The room, with its odd splashes of light, was full of shadows,
and he saw now that in an easy-chair a little distance away from
Sir Timothy, a girl was seated.  Behind her, still standing, with
his hat in his hand, was a man.  Francis recognised them both
with surprise.

"Miss Hyslop!" he exclaimed.

She nodded a little defiantly.  Sir Timothy smiled.  "Ah!" he
said.  "You know the young lady, without a doubt.  Mr. Shopland,
your coadjutor in various works of philanthropy, you recognise,
of course?  I do not mind confessing to you, Ledsam, that I am
very much afraid of Mr. Shopland.  I am not at all sure that he
has not a warrant for my arrest in his pocket."

The detective came a little further into the light.  He was
attired in an ill-fitting dinner suit, a soft-fronted shirt of
unpleasing design, a collar of the wrong shape, and a badly
arranged tie.  He seemed, nevertheless, very pleased with
himself.

"I came on here, Mr. Ledsam, at Sir Timothy's desire," he said.
"I should like you to understand," he added, with a covert glance
of warning, "that I have been devoting every effort, during the
last few days, to the discovery of your friend's brother, Mr.
Reginald Wilmore."

"I am very glad to hear it," Francis replied shortly.  "The boy's
brother is one of my greatest friends."

"I have come to the conclusion," the detective pronounced, "that
the young man has been abducted, and is being detained at The
Walled House against his will for some illegal purpose."

"In other respects," Sir Timothy said, stretching out his hand
towards a cedar-wood box of cigarettes and selecting one, "this
man seems quite sane.  I have watched him very closely on the way
here, but I could see no signs of mental aberration.  I do not
think, at any rate, that he is dangerous."

"Sir Timothy," Shopland explained, with some anger in his tone,
"declines to take me seriously.  I can of course apply for a
search warrant, as I shall do, but it occurred to me to be one of
those cases which could be better dealt with, up to a certain
point, without recourse to the extremities of the law."

Sir Timothy, who had lit his cigarette, presented a wholly
undisturbed front.

"What I cannot quite understand," he said, "is the exact meaning
of that word 'abduction.'  Why should I be suspected of forcibly
removing a harmless and worthy young man from his regular
avocation, and, as you term it, abducting him, which I presume
means keeping him bound and gagged and imprisoned?  I do not eat
young men.  I do not even care for the society of young men.  I
am not naturally a gregarious person, but I think I would go so
far," he added, with a bow towards Miss Hyslop, "as to say that I
prefer the society of young women.  Satisfy my curiosity,
therefore, I beg of you.  For what reason do you suppose that I
have been concerned in the disappearance of this Mr. Reginald
Wilmore?"

Francis opened his lips, but Shopland, with a warning glance,
intervened.

"I work sometimes as a private person, sir," he said, "but it is
not to be forgotten that I am an officer of the law.  It is not
for us to state motives or even to afford explanations for our
behaviour.  I have watched your house at Hatch End, Sir Timothy,
and I have come to the conclusion that unless you are willing to
discuss this matter with me in a different spirit, I am justified
in asking the magistrates for a search warrant."

Sir Timothy sighed.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, "I think, after all, that yours is the
most interesting end of this espionage business.  It is you who
search for motives, is it not, and pass them on to our more
automatic friend, who does the rest.  May I ask, have you
supplied the motive in the present case?"

"I have failed to discover any motive at all for Reginald
Wilmore's disappearance," Francis admitted, "nor have I at any
time been able to connect you with it.  Mr. Shopland's efforts,
however, although he has not seen well to take me into his entire
confidence, have my warmest approval and sympathy.  Although I
have accepted your very generous hospitality, Sir Timothy, I
think there has been no misunderstanding between us on this
matter."

"Most correct," Sir Timothy murmured.  "The trouble seems to be,
so far as I am concerned, that no one will tell me exactly of
what I am suspected?  I am to give Mr. Shopland the run of my
house, or he will make his appearance in the magistrate's court
and the evening papers will have placards with marvellous
headlines at my expense.  How will it run, Mr. Shopland--

  "'MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF A YOUNG GENTLEMAN.
    MILLIONAIRE'S HOUSE TO BE SEARCHED.'"

"We do not necessarily acquaint the press with our procedure,"
Shopland rejoined.

"Nevertheless," Sir Timothy continued, "I have known awkward
consequences arise from a search warrant too rashly applied for
or granted.  However, we are scarcely being polite.  So far, Miss
Hyslop has had very little to say."

The young lady was not altogether at her ease.

"I have had very little to say," she repeated, "because I did not
expect an audience."

Sir Timothy drew a letter from his pocket, opened it and adjusted
his eyeglass.

"Here we are," he said.  "After leaving my dinner-party tonight,
I called at the club and found this note.  Quite an inviting
little affair, you see young lady's writing, faint but very
delicate perfume, excellent stationery, Milan Court--the home of
adventures!"

  "DEAR SIR TIMOTHY BRAST:

  "Although I am not known to you personally, there is a
certain matter concerning which information has come into my
possession, which I should like to discuss with you.  Will
you call and see me as soon as possible?"
                              Sincerely yours,
                                 "DAISY HYSLOP."

"On receipt of this note," Sir Timothy continued, folding it up,
"I telephoned to the young lady and as I was fortunate enough to
find her at home I asked her to come here.  I then took the
liberty of introducing myself to Mr. Shopland, whose interest in
my evening has been unvarying, and whose uninvited company I have
been compelled to bear with, and suggested that, as I was on my
way back to Curzon Street, he had better come in and have a drink
and tell me what it was all about.  I arranged that he should
find Miss Hyslop here, and for a person of observation, which I
flatter myself to be, it was easy to discover the interesting
fact that Mr. Shopland and Miss Daisy Hyslop were not strangers.

"Now tell me, young lady," Sir Timothy went on.  "You see, I have
placed myself entirely in your hands.  Never mind the presence of
these two gentlemen. Tell me exactly what you wanted to say to me?"

"The matter is of no great importance," Miss Hyslop declared, "in
any case I should not discuss it before these two gentlemen."

"Don't go for a moment, please," Sir Timothy begged, as she
showed signs of departure.  "Listen.  I want to make a suggestion
to you.  There is an impression abroad that I was interested in
the two young men, Victor Bidlake and Fairfax, and that I knew
something of their quarrel.  You were an intimate friend of young
Bidlake's and presumably in his confidence.  It occurs to me,
therefore, that Mr. Shopland might very well have visited you in
search of information, linking me up with that unfortunate
affair.  Hence your little note to me."

Miss Hyslop rose to her feet.  She had the appearance of being
very angry indeed.

"Do you mean to insinuate--" she began.

"Madam, I insinuate nothing," Sir Timothy interrupted sternly.
"I only desire to suggest this.  You are a young lady whose
manner of living, I gather, is to a certain extent precarious.
It must have seemed to you a likelier source of profit to
withhold any information you might have to give at the
solicitation of a rich man, than to give it free gratis and for
nothing to a detective.  Now am I right?"

Miss Hyslop turned towards the door.  She had the air of a person
who had been entirely misunderstood.

"I wrote you out of kindness, Sir Timothy," she said in an
aggrieved manner.  "I shall have nothing more to say on the
matter--to you, at any rate."

Sir Timothy sighed.

"You see," he said, turning to the others, "I have lost my chance
of conciliating a witness.  My cheque-book remains locked up and
she has gone over to your side."

She turned around suddenly.

"You know that you made Bobby Fairfax kill Victor!" she almost
shouted.

Sir Timothy smiled in triumph.

"My dear young lady," he begged, "let us now be friends again.  I
desired to know your trump card.  For that reason I fear that I
have been a little brutal.  Now please don't hurry away.  You
have shot your bolt.  Already Mr. Shopland is turning the thing
over in his mind.  Was I lurking outside that night, Mr.
Shopland, to guide that young man's flabby arm?  He scarcely
seemed man enough for a murderer, did he, when he sat quaking on
that stool in Soto's Bar while Mr. Ledsam tortured him?  I beg
you again not to hurry, Miss Hyslop.  At any rate wait while my
servants fetch you a taxi.  It was clouding over when I came in.
We may even have a thunderstorm."

"I want to get out of this house," Daisy Hyslop declared.
"I think you are all horrible.  Mr. Ledsam did behave like
a gentleman when he came to see me, and Mr. Shopland asked
questions civilly.  But you--" she added, turning round to Sir
Timothy.

"Hush, my dear," he interrupted, holding out his hand.  "Don't
abuse me.  I am not angry with you--not in the least--and I am
going to prove it.  I shall oppose any search warrant which you
might apply for, Mr. Shopland, and I think I can oppose it with
success.  But I invite you two, Miss Hyslop and Mr. Ledsam, to my
party on Thursday night.  Once under my roof you shall have carte
blanche.  You can wander where you please, knock the walls for
secret hiding-places, stamp upon the floor for oubliettes.
Upstairs or down, the cellars and the lofts, the grounds and the
park, the whole of my domain is for you from midnight on Thursday
until four o'clock.  What do you say, Mr. Shopland?  Does my
offer satisfy you?"

The detective hesitated.

"I should prefer an invitation for myself," he declared bluntly.

Sir Timothy shook his head.

"Alas, my dear Mr. Shopland," he regretted, "that is impossible!
If I had only myself to consider I would not hesitate.
Personally I like you.  You amuse me more than any one I have met
for a long time.  But unfortunately I have my guests to consider!
You must be satisfied with Mr. Ledsam's report."

Shopland stroked his stubbly moustache.  It was obvious that he
was not in the least disconcerted.

"There are three days between now and then," he reflected.

"During those three days, of course," Sir Timothy said drily, "I
shall do my best to obliterate all traces of my various crimes.
Still, you are a clever detective, and you can give Mr. Ledsam a
few hints.  Take my advice.  You won't get that search warrant,
and if you apply for it none of you will be at my party."

"I accept," Shopland decided.

Sir Timothy crossed the room, unlocked the drawer of a
magnificent writing-table, and from a little packet drew out two
cards of invitation.  They were of small size but thick, and the
colour was a brilliant scarlet.  On one he wrote the name of
Francis, the other he filled in for Miss Hyslop.

"Miss Daisy Hyslop," he said, "shall we drink a glass of wine
together on Thursday evening, and will you decide that although,
perhaps, I am not a very satisfactory correspondent, I can at
least be an amiable host?"

The girl's eyes glistened.  She knew very well that the
possession of that card meant that for the next few days she
would be the envy of every one of her acquaintances.

"Thank you, Sir Timothy," she replied eagerly.  "You have quite
misunderstood me but I should like to come to your party."

Sir Timothy handed over the cards.  He rang for a servant and
bowed the others out.  Francis he detained for a moment.

"Our little duel, my friend, marches," he said.  "After Thursday
night we will speak again of this matter concerning Margaret.
You will know then what you have to face."

Margaret herself opened the door and looked in.

"What have those people been doing here?" she asked.  "What is
happening?"

Her father unlocked his drawer once more and drew out another of
the red cards.

"Margaret," he said, "Ledsam here has accepted my invitation for
Thursday night.  You have never, up till now, honoured me, nor
have I ever asked you.  I suggest that for the first part of the
entertainment, you give me the pleasure of your company."

"For the first part?"

"For the first part only," he repeated, as he wrote her name upon
the card.

"What about Francis?" she asked.  "Is he to stay all the time?"

Sir Timothy smiled.  He locked up his drawer and slipped the
key into his pocket.

"Ledsam and I," he said, "have promised one another a more
complete mutual understanding on Thursday night.  I may not be
able to part with him quite so soon."




CHAPTER XXVI


Bored and listless, like a tired and drooping lily in the arms of
her somewhat athletic partner, Lady Cynthia brought her dance to
a somewhat abrupt conclusion.

"There is some one in the lounge there to whom I wish to speak,"
she said.  "Perhaps you won't mind if we finish later.  The floor
seems sticky tonight, or my feet are heavy."

Her partner made the best of it, as Lady Cynthia's partners,
nowadays, generally had to.  She even dispensed with his escort,
and walked across the lounge of Claridge's alone.  Sir Timothy
rose to his feet.  He had been sitting in a corner, half
sheltered by a pillar, and had fancied himself unseen.

"What a relief!" she exclaimed.  "Another turn and I should have
fainted through sheer boredom."

"Yet you are quite wonderful dancing," he said.  "I have been
watching you for some time."

"It is one of my expiring efforts," she declared, sinking into
the chair by his side.  "You know whose party it is, of course?
Old Lady Torrington's.  Quite a boy and girl affair.  Twenty-four
of us had dinner in the worst corner of the room.  I can hear the
old lady ordering the dinner now.  Charles with a long menu.  She
shakes her head and taps him on the wrist with her fan.
'Monsieur Charles, I am a poor woman.  Give me what there is--a
small, plain dinner--and charge me at your minimum.'  The dinner
was very small and very plain, the champagne was horribly sweet.
My partner talked of a new drill, his last innings for the
Household Brigade, and a wonderful round of golf he played last
Sunday week.  I was turned on to dance with a man who asked me to
marry him, a year ago, and I could feel him vibrating with
gratitude, as he looked at me, that I had refused.  I suppose I
am very haggard."

"Does that matter, nowadays?" Sir Timothy asked.

She shrugged her shoulders.

"I am afraid it does.  The bone and the hank of hair stuff is
played out.  The dairy-maid style is coming in.  Plump little
Fanny Torrington had a great success to-night, in one of those
simple white dresses, you know, which look like a sack with a
hole cut in the top.  What are you doing here by yourself?"

"I have an engagement in a few minutes," he explained.  "My car
is waiting now.  I looked in at the club to dine, found my
favourite table taken and nearly every man I ever disliked
sidling up to tell me that he hears I am giving a wonderful party
on Thursday.  I decided not to dine there, after all, and Charles
found me a corner here.  I am going in five minutes."

"Where to?" she asked.  "Can't I come with you?"

"I fear not," he answered.  "I am going down in the East End."

"Adventuring?"

"More or less," he admitted.

Lady Cynthia became beautiful.  She was always beautiful when she
was not tired.

"Take me with you, please," she begged.

He shook his head.

"Not to be done!"

"Don't shake your head like that," she enjoined, with a little
grimace.  "People will think I am trying to borrow money from you
and that you are refusing me!  Just take me with you some of the
way.  I shall scream if I go back into that dancing-room again."

Sir Timothy glanced at the clock.

"If there is any amusement to you in a rather dull drive
eastwards--"

She was on her feet with the soft, graceful speed which had made
her so much admired before her present listlessness had set in.

"I'll get my cloak," she said.

They drove along the Embankment, citywards.  The heat of the city
seemed to rise from the pavements.  The wall of the Embankment
was lined with people, leaning over to catch the languid breeze
that crept up with the tide.  They crossed the river and threaded
their way through a nightmare of squalid streets, where half-dressed
men and women hung from the top windows and were even to be seen
upon the roof, struggling for air.  The car at last pulled up at the
corner of a long street.

"I am going down here," Sir Timothy announced.  "I shall be gone
perhaps an hour.  The neighbourhood is not a fit one for you to
be left alone in.  I shall have time to send you home.  The car
will be back here for me by the time I require it."

"Where are you going?" she asked curiously.  "Why can't I come
with you?"

"I am going where I cannot take you," was the firm reply.  "I
told you that before I started."

"I shall sit here and wait for you," she decided.  "I rather like
the neighbourhood.  There is a gentleman in shirt-sleeves,
leaning over the rail of the roof there, who has his eye on me.
I believe I shall be a success here--which is more than I can say
of a little further westwards."

Sir Timothy smiled slightly.  He had exchanged his hat for a
tweed cap, and had put on a long dustcoat.

"There is no gauge by which you may know the measure of your
success," he said.  "If there were--"

"If there were?" she asked, leaning a little forward and looking
at him with a touch of the old brilliancy in her eyes.

"If there were," he said, with a little show of mock gallantry,
"a very jealously-guarded secret might escape me.  I think you
will be quite all right here," he continued.  "It is an open
thoroughfare, and I see two policemen at the corner.  Hassell, my
chauffeur, too, is a reliable fellow.  We will be back within the
hour."

"We?" she repeated.

He indicated a man who had silently made his appearance during
the conversation and was standing waiting on the sidewalk.

"Just a companion.  I do not advise you to wait.  If you insist
--au revoir!"

Lady Cynthia leaned back in a corner of the car.

Through half-closed eyes she watched the two men on their way
down the crowded thoroughfare--Sir Timothy tall, thin as a lath,
yet with a certain elegance of bearing; the man at his side
shorter, his hands thrust into the pockets of his coat, his
manner one of subservience.  She wondered languidly as to their
errand in this unsavoury neighbourhood.  Then she closed her eyes
altogether and wondered about many things.

Sir Timothy and his companion walked along the crowded, squalid
street without speech.  Presently they turned to the right and
stopped in front of a public-house of some pretensions.

"This is the place?" Sir Timothy asked.

"Yes, sir!"

Both men entered.  Sir Timothy made his way to the counter, his
companion to a table near, where he took a seat and ordered a
drink.  Sir Timothy did the same.  He was wedged in between a
heterogeneous crowd of shabby, depressed but apparently not
ill-natured men and women.  A man in a flannel shirt and pair of
shabby plaid trousers, which owed their precarious position to a
pair of worn-out braces, turned a beery eye upon the newcomer.

"I'll 'ave one with you, guvnor," he said.

"You shall indeed," Sir Timothy assented.

"Strike me lucky but I've touched first time!" the man exclaimed.
"I'll 'ave a double tot of whisky," he added, addressing the
barman.  "Will it run to it, guvnor?"

"Certainly," was the cordial reply, "and the same to your
friends, if you will answer a question."

"Troop up, lads," the man shouted.  "We've a toff 'ere.  He ain't
a 'tec--I know the cut of them.  Out with the question."

"Serve every one who desires it with drinks," Sir Timothy
directed the barman.  "My question is easily answered.  Is this
the place which a man whom I understand they call Billy the
Tanner frequents?"

The question appeared to produce an almost uncomfortable
sensation.  The enthusiasm for the free drinks, however, was only
slightly damped, and a small forest of grimy hands was extended
across the counter.

"Don't you ask no questions about 'im, guvnor," Sir Timothy's
immediate companion advised earnestly.  "He'd kill you as soon as
look at you.  When Billy the Tanner's in a quarrelsome mood, I've
see 'im empty this place and the whole street, quicker than if a
mad dog was loose.  'E's a fair and 'oly terror, 'e is.  'E about
killed 'is wife, three nights ago, but there ain't a living soul
as 'd dare to stand in the witness-box about it."

"Why don't the police take a hand in the matter if the man is
such a nuisance?" Sir Timothy asked.

His new acquaintance, gripping a thick tumbler of spirits and
water with a hand deeply encrusted with the stains of his trade,
scoffed.

"Police!  Why, 'e'd take on any three of the police round these
parts!" he declared.  "Police!  You tell one on 'em that Billy
the Tanner's on the rampage, and you'll see 'em 'op it.  Cheero,
guvnor and don't you get curious about Billy.  It ain't 'ealthy."

The swing-door was suddenly opened.  A touslehaired urchin shoved
his face in.

"Billy the Tanner's coming!" he shouted.  "Cave, all!  He's been
'avin' a rare to-do in Smith's Court."

Then a curious thing happened.  The little crowd at the bar
seemed somehow to melt away.  Half-a-dozen left precipitately by
the door.  Half-a-dozen more slunk through an inner entrance into
some room beyond.  Sir Timothy's neighbour set down his tumbler
empty.  He was the last to leave.

"If you're going to stop 'ere, guvnor," he begged fervently, "you
keep a still tongue in your 'ead.  Billy ain't particular who it
is.  'E'd kill 'is own mother, if 'e felt like it.  'E'll swing
some day, sure as I stand 'ere, but 'e'll do a bit more mischief
first.  'Op it with me, guvnor, or get inside there."

"Jim's right," the man behind the bar agreed.  "He's a very nasty
customer, Bill the Tanner, sir.  If he's coming down, I'd clear
out for a moment.  You can go in the guvnor's sitting-room, if
you like."

Sir Timothy shook his head.

"Billy the Tanner will not hurt me," he said.  "As a matter of
fact, I came down to see him."

His new friend hesitated no longer but made for the door through
which most of his companions had already disappeared.  The barman
leaned across the counter.

"Guvnor," he whispered hoarsely, "I don't know what the game is,
but I've given you the office.  Billy won't stand no truck from
any one.  He's a holy terror."

Sir Timothy nodded.

"I quite understand," he said.

There was a moment's ominous silence.  The barman withdrew to the
further end of his domain and busied himself cleaning some
glasses.  Suddenly the door was swung open.  A man entered whose
appearance alone was calculated to inspire a certain amount of
fear.  He was tall, but his height escaped notice by reason of
the extraordinary breadth of his shoulders.  He had a coarse and
vicious face, a crop of red hair, and an unshaven growth of the
same upon his face.  He wore what appeared to be the popular
dress in the neighbourhood--a pair of trousers suspended by a
belt, and a dirty flannel shirt.  His hands and even his chest,
where the shirt fell away, were discoloured by yellow stains.  He
looked around the room at first with an air of disappointment.
Then he caught sight of Sir Timothy standing at the counter, and
he brightened up.

"Where's all the crowd, Tom?" he asked the barman.

"Scared of you, I reckon," was the brief reply.  "There was
plenty here a few minutes ago."

"Scared of me, eh?" the other repeated, staring hard at Sir
Timothy.  "Did you 'ear that, guvnor?"

"I heard it," Sir Timothy acquiesced.

Billy the Tanner began to cheer up.  He walked all round this
stranger.

"A toff!  A big toff!  I'll 'ave a drink with you, guvnor," he
declared, with a note of incipient truculence in his tone.

The barman had already reached up for two glasses but Sir Timothy
shook his head.

"I think not," he said.

There was a moment's silence.  The barman made despairing signs
at Sir Timothy.  Billy the Tanner was moistening his lips with
his tongue.

"Why not?" he demanded.

"Because I don't know you and I don't like you," was the bland
reply.

Billy the Tanner wasted small time upon preliminaries.  He spat
upon his hands.

"I dunno you and I don't like you," he retorted.  "D'yer know wot
I'm going to do?"

"I have no idea," Sir Timothy confessed.

"I'm going to make you look so that your own mother wouldn't know
you--then I'm going to pitch you into the street," he added, with
an evil grin.  "That's wot we does with big toffs who come
'anging around 'ere."

"Do you?" Sir Timothy said calmly.  "Perhaps my friend may have
something to say about that."

The man of war was beginning to be worked up.

"Where's your big friend?" he shouted.  "Come on!  I'll take on
the two of you."

The man who had met Sir Timothy in the street had risen to his
feet.  He strolled up to the two.  Billy the Tanner eyed him
hungrily.

"The two of you, d'yer 'ear?" he shouted.  "And 'ere's just a
flick for the toff to be going on with!"

He delivered a sudden blow at Sir Timothy--a full, vicious,
jabbing blow which had laid many a man of the neighbourhood in
the gutter.  To his amazement, the chin at which he had aimed
seemed to have mysteriously disappeared.  Sir Timothy himself was
standing about half-a-yard further away.  Billy the Tanner was
too used to the game to be off his balance, but he received at
that moment the surprise of his life.  With the flat of his hand
full open, Sir Timothy struck him across the cheek such a blow
that it resounded through the place, a blow that brought both the
inner doors ajar, that brought peering eyes from every direction.
There was a moment's silence.  The man's fists were clenched now,
there was murder in his face.  Sir Timothy stepped on one side.

"I am not a fighter," he said coolly, leaning back against the
marble table.  "My friend will deal with you."

Billy the Tanner glared at the newcomer, who had glided in
between him and Sir Timothy.

"You can come and join in, too," he shouted to Sir Timothy.
"I'll knock your big head into pulp when I've done with this
little job!"

The bully knew in precisely thirty seconds what had happened to
him.  So did the crowds who pressed back into the place through
the inner door. So did the barman.  So did the landlord, who had
made a cautious appearance through a trapdoor.  Billy the Tanner,
for the first time in his life, was fighting a better man.  For
two years he had been the terror of the neighbourhood, and he
showed now that at least he had courage.  His smattering of
science, however, appeared only ridiculous.  Once, through sheer
strength and blundering force, he broke down his opponent's guard
and struck him in the place that had dispatched many a man
before--just over the heart.  His present opponent scarcely
winced, and Billy the Tanner paid the penalty then for his years
of bullying.  His antagonist paused for a single second, as though
unnerved by the blow.  Red fire seemed to stream from his eyes.
Then it was all over.  With a sickening crash, Billy the Tanner
went down upon the sanded floor.  It was no matter of a count for
him.  He lay there like a dead man, and from the two doors the
hidden spectators streamed into the room.  Sir Timothy laid some
money upon the table.

"This fellow insulted me and my friend," he said.  "You see, he
has paid the penalty.  If he misbehaves again, the same thing
will happen to him.  I am leaving some money here with your
barman.  I shall be glad for every one to drink with me.
Presently, perhaps, you had better send for an ambulance or a
doctor."

A little storm of enthusiastic excitement, evidenced for the most
part in expletives of a lurid note, covered the retreat of Sir
Timothy and his companion.  Out in the street a small crowd was
rushing towards the place.  A couple of policemen seemed to be
trying to make up their minds whether it was a fine night.  An
inspector hurried up to them.

"What's doing in 'The Rising Sun'?" he demanded sharply.

"Some one's giving Billy the Tanner a hiding," one of the
policemen replied.

"Honest?"

"A fair, ripe, knock-out hiding," was the emphatic confirmation.
"I looked in at the window."

The inspector grinned.

"I'm glad you had the sense not to interfere," he remarked.

Sir Timothy and his companion reached the car.  The latter took a
seat by the chauffeur.  Sir Timothy stepped in.  It struck him
that Lady Cynthia was a little breathless.  Her eyes, too, were
marvellously bright.  Wrapped around her knees was the
chauffeur's coat.

"Wonderful!" she declared.  "I haven't had such a wonderful five
minutes since I can remember!  You are a dear to have brought me,
Sir Timothy."

"What do you mean?" he demanded.

"Mean?" she laughed, as the car swung around and they glided
away.  "You didn't suppose I was going to sit here and watch you
depart upon a mysterious errand?  I borrowed your chauffeur's
coat and his cap, and slunk down after you.  I can assure you I
looked the most wonderful female apache you ever saw!  And I saw
the fight.  It was better than any of the prize fights I have
ever been to.  The real thing is better than the sham, isn't it?"

Sir Timothy leaned back in his place and remained silent.  Soon
they passed out of the land of tired people, of stalls decked out
with unsavoury provender, of foetid smells and unwholesome-looking
houses.  They passed through a street of silent warehouses on to
the Embankment.  A stronger breeze came down between the curving
arc of lights.

"You are not sorry that you brought me?" Lady Cynthia asked,
suddenly holding out her hand.

Sir Timothy took it in his.  For some reason or other, he made no
answer at all.




CHAPTER XXVII


The car stopped in front of the great house in Grosvenor Square.
Lady Cynthia turned to her companion.

"You must come in, please," she said.  "I insist, if it is only
for five minutes."

Sir Timothy followed her across the hall to a curved recess,
where the footman who had admitted them touched a bell, and a
small automatic lift came down.

"I am taking you to my own quarters," she explained.  "They are
rather cut off but I like them--especially on hot nights."

They glided up to the extreme top of the house.  She opened the
gates and led the way into what was practically an attic
sitting-room, decorated in black and white.  Wide-flung doors
opened onto the leads, where comfortable chairs, a small table and
an electric standard were arranged.  They were far above the tops
of the other houses, and looked into the green of the Park.

"This is where I bring very few people," she said.  "This is
where, even after my twenty-eight years of fraudulent life, I am
sometimes myself.  Wait."

There were feminine drinks and sandwiches arranged on the table.
She opened the cupboard of a small sideboard just inside the
sitting-room, however, and produced whisky and a syphon of soda.
There was a pail of ice in a cool corner.  From somewhere in the
distance came the music of violins floating through the window of
a house where a dance was in progress.  They could catch a
glimpse of the striped awning and the long line of waiting
vehicles with their twin eyes of fire.  She curled herself up on
a settee, flung a cushion at Sir Timothy, who was already
ensconced in a luxurious easy-chair, and with a tumbler of iced
sherbet in one hand, and a cigarette in the other, looked across
at him.

"I am not sure," she said, "that you have not to-night dispelled
an illusion."

"What manner of one?" he asked.

"Above all things," she went on, "I have always looked upon you
as wicked.  Most people do.  I think that is one reason why so
many of the women find you attractive.  I suppose it is why I
have found you attractive."

The smile was back upon his lips.  He bowed a little, and,
leaning forward, dropped a chunk of ice into his whisky and soda.

"Dear Lady Cynthia," he murmured, "don't tell me that I am going
to slip back in your estimation into some normal place."

"I am not quite sure," she said deliberately.  "I have always
looked upon you as a kind of amateur criminal, a man who loved
black things and dark ways.  You know how weary one gets of the
ordinary code of morals in these days.  You were such a
delightful antidote.  And now, I am not sure that you have not
shaken my faith in you."

"In what way?"

"You really seem to have been engaged to-night in a very sporting
and philanthropic enterprise.  I imagined you visiting some den
of vice and mixing as an equal with these terrible people who
never seem to cross the bridges.  I was perfectly thrilled when I
put on your chauffeur's coat and hat and followed you."

"The story of my little adventure is a simple one," Sir Timothy
said.  "I do not think it greatly affects my character.  I
believe, as a matter of fact, that I am just as wicked as you
would have me be, but I have friends in every walk of life, and,
as you know, I like to peer into the unexpected places.  I had
heard of this man Billy the Tanner.  He beats women, and has
established a perfect reign of terror in the court and
neighbourhood where he lives.  I fear I must agree with you that
there were some elements of morality--of conforming, at any rate,
to the recognised standards of justice--in what I did.  You know,
of course, that I am a great patron of every form of boxing,
fencing, and the various arts of self-defence and attack.  I just
took along one of the men from my gymnasium who I knew was equal
to the job, to give this fellow a lesson."

"He did it all right," Lady Cynthia murmured.

"But this is where I think I re-establish myself," Sir Timothy
continued, the peculiar nature of his smile reasserting itself.
"I did not do this for the sake of the neighbourhood.  I did not
do it from any sense of justice at all.  I did it to provide for
myself an enjoyable and delectable spectacle."

She smiled lazily.

"That does rather let you out," she admitted.  "However, on the
whole I am disappointed.  I am afraid that you are not so bad as
people think."

"People?" he repeated.  "Francis Ledsam, for instance--my son-in-law
in posse?"

"Francis Ledsam is one of those few rather brilliant persons who
have contrived to keep sane without becoming a prig," she
remarked.

"You know why?" he reminded her.  "Francis Ledsam has been a
tremendous worker.  It is work which keeps a man sane.
Brilliancy without the capacity for work drives people to the
madhouse."

"Where we are all going, I suppose," she sighed.

"Not you," he answered.  "You have just enough--I don't know what
we moderns call it--soul, shall I say?--to keep you from the
muddy ways."

She rose to her feet and leaned over the rails.  Sir Timothy
watched her thoughtfully.  Her figure, notwithstanding its
suggestions of delicate maturity, was still as slim as a young
girl's.  She was looking across the tree-tops towards an angry
bank of clouds--long, pencil-like streaks of black on a purple
background.  Below, in the street, a taxi passed with grinding of
brakes and noisy horn.  The rail against which she leaned looked
very flimsy.  Sir Timothy stretched out his hand and held her
arm.

"My nerves are going with my old age," he apologised.  "That
support seems too fragile."

She did not move.  The touch of his fingers grew firmer.

"We have entered upon an allegory," she murmured.  "You are
preserving me from the depths."

He laughed harshly.

"I!" he exclaimed, with a sudden touch of real and fierce
bitterness which brought the light dancing into her eyes and a
spot of colour to her cheeks.  "I preserve you!  Why, you can
never hear my name without thinking of sin, of crime of some
sort!  Do you seriously expect me to ever preserve any one from
anything?"

"You haven't made any very violent attempts to corrupt me," she
reminded him.

"Women don't enter much into my scheme of life," he declared.
"They played a great part once.  It was a woman, I think, who
first headed me off from the pastures of virtue."

"I know," she said softly.  "It was Margaret's mother."

His voice rang out like a pistol-shot.

"How did you know that?"

She turned away from the rail and threw herself back in her
chair.  His hand, however, she still kept in hers.

"Uncle Joe was Minister at Rio, you know, the year it all
happened," she explained.  "He told us the story years ago--how
you came back from Europe and found things were not just as they
should be between Margaret's mother and your partner, and how you
killed your partner."

His nostrils quivered a little.  One felt that the fire of
suffering had touched him again for a moment.

"Yes, I killed him," he admitted.  "That is part of my creed.
The men who defend their honour in the Law Courts are men I know
nothing of.  This man would have wronged me and robbed me of my
honour.  I bade him defend himself in any way he thought well.
It was his life or mine.  He was a poor fighter and I killed
him."

"And Margaret's mother died from the shock."

"She died soon afterwards."

The stars grew paler.  The passing vehicles, with their brilliant
lights, grew fewer and fewer.  The breeze which had been so
welcome at first, turned into a cold night wind.  She led the way
back into the room.

"I must go," he announced.

"You must go," she echoed, looking up at him.  "Good-bye!"

She was so close to him that his embrace, sudden and passionate
though it was, came about almost naturally.  She lay in his arms
with perfect content and raised her lips to his.

He broke away.  He was himself again, self-furious.

"Lady Cynthia," he said, "I owe you my most humble apologies.
The evil that is in me does not as a rule break out in this
direction."

"You dear, foolish person," she laughed, "that was good, not
evil.  You like me, don't you?  But I know you do.  There is one
crime you have always forgotten to develop--you haven't the
simplest idea in the world how to lie."

"Yes, I like you," he admitted.  "I have the most absurd feeling
for you that any man ever found it impossible to put into words.
We have indeed strayed outside the world of natural things," he
added.

"Why?" she murmured.  "I never felt more natural or normal in my
life.  I can assure you that I am loving it.  I feel like muslin
gowns and primroses and the scent of those first March violets
underneath a warm hedge where the sun comes sometimes.  I feel
very natural indeed, Sir Timothy."

"What about me?" he asked harshly.  "In three weeks' time I shall
be fifty years old."

She laughed softly.

"And in no time at all I shall be thirty--and entering upon a
terrible period of spinsterhood!"

"Spinsterhood!" he scoffed.  "Why, whenever the Society papers
are at a loss for a paragraph, they report a few more offers of
marriage to the ever-beautiful Lady Cynthia."

"Don't be sarcastic," she begged.  "I haven't yet had the offer
of marriage I want, anyhow."

"You'll get one you don't want in a moment," he warned her.

She made a little grimace.

"Don't!" she laughed nervously.  "How am I to preserve my
romantic notions of you as the emperor of the criminal world, if
you kiss me as you did just now--you kissed me rather well--and
then ask me to marry you?  It isn't your role.  You must light a
cigarette now, pat the back of my hand, and swagger off to
another of your haunts of vice."

"In other words, I am not to propose?" Sir Timothy said slowly.

"You see how decadent I am," she sighed.  "I want to toy with my
pleasures.  Besides, there's that scamp of a brother of mine
coming up to have a drink--I saw him get out of a taxi--and you
couldn't get it through in time, not with dignity."

The rattle of the lift as it stopped was plainly audible.  He
stooped and kissed her fingers.

"I fear some day," he murmured, "I shall be a great
disappointment to you."




CHAPTER XXVIII


There was a great deal of discussion, the following morning at
the Sheridan Club, during the gossipy half-hour which preceded
luncheon, concerning Sir Timothy Brast's forthcoming
entertainment.  One of the men, Philip Baker, who had been for
many years the editor of a famous sporting weekly, had a ticket
of invitation which he displayed to an envious little crowd.

"You fellows who get invitations to these parties," a famous
actor declared, "are the most elusive chaps on earth.  Half
London is dying to know what really goes on there, and yet, if by
any chance one comes across a prospective or retrospective guest,
he is as dumb about it as though it were some Masonic function.
We've got you this time, Baler, though.  We'll put you under the
inquisition on Friday morning."

"There a won't be any need," the other replied.  "One hears a
great deal of rot talked about these affairs, but so far as I
know, nothing very much out of the way goes on.  There are always
one or two pretty stiff fights in the gymnasium, and you get the
best variety show and supper in the world."

"Why is there this aroma of mystery hanging about the affair,
then?" some one asked.

"Well, for one or two reasons," Baker answered.  "One, no doubt,
is because Sir Timothy has a great idea of arranging the fights
himself, and the opponents actually don't know until the fight
begins whom they are meeting, and sometimes not even then.  There
has been some gossiping, too, about the rules, and the weight of
the gloves, but that I know, nothing about."

"And the rest of the show?" a younger member enquired.  "Is it
simply dancing and music and that sort of thing?"

"Just a variety entertainment," the proud possessor of the
scarlet-hued ticket declared.  "Sir Timothy always has something
up his sleeve.  Last year, for instance, he had those six African
girls over from Paris in that queer dance which they wouldn't
allow in London at all.  This time no one knows what is going to
happen.  The house, as you know, is absolutely surrounded by that
hideous stone wall, and from what I have heard, reporters who try
to get in aren't treated too kindly.  Here's Ledsam.  Very likely
he knows more about it."

"Ledsam," some one demanded, as Francis joined the group, "are
you going to Sir Timothy Brast's show to-morrow night?"

"I hope so," Francis replied, producing his strip of pasteboard.

"Ever been before?"

"Never."

"Do you know what sort of a show it's going to be?" the actor
enquired.

"Not the slightest idea.  I don't think any one does.  That's
rather a feature of the affair, isn't it?"

"It is the envious outsider who has never received an invitation,
like myself," some one remarked, "who probably spreads these
rumours, for one always hears it hinted that some disgraceful and
illegal exhibition is on tap there--a new sort of drugging party,
or some novel form of debauchery."

"I don't think," Francis said quietly, "that Sir Timothy is quite
that sort of man."

"Dash it all, what sort of man is he?" the actor demanded.  "They
tell me that financially he is utterly unscrupulous, although he
is rolling in money.  He has the most Mephistophelian expression
of any man I ever met--looks as though he'd set his heel on any
one's neck for the sport of it--and yet they say he has given at
least fifty thousand pounds to the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals, and that the whole of the park round that
estate of his down the river is full of lamed and decrepit beasts
which he has bought himself off the streets."

"The man must have an interesting personality," a novelist who
had joined the party observed.  "Of course, you know that he was
in prison for six months?"

"What for?" some one asked.

"Murder, only they brought it in manslaughter," was the terse
reply.  "He killed his partner.  It was many years ago, and no
one knows all the facts of the story."

"I am not holding a brief for Sir Timothy," Francis remarked, as
he sipped his cocktail.  "As a matter of fact, he and I are very
much at cross-purposes.  But as regards that particular instance,
I am not sure that he was very much to be blamed, any more than
you can blame any injured person who takes the law into his own
hands."

"He isn't a man I should care to have for an enemy," Baker
declared.

"Well, we'll shake the truth out of you fellows, somehow or
other," one of the group threatened.  "On Friday morning we are
going to have the whole truth--none of this Masonic secrecy which
Baker indulged in last year."

The men drifted in to luncheon and Francis, leaving them, took a
taxi on to the Ritz.  Looking about in the vestibule for
Margaret, he came face to face with Lady Cynthia.  She was
dressed with her usual distinction in a gown of yellow muslin and
a beflowered hat, and was the cynosure of a good many eyes.

"One would almost imagine, Lady Cynthia," he said, as they
exchanged greetings, "that you had found that elixir we were
talking about."

"Perhaps I have," she answered, smiling.  "Are you looking for
Margaret?  She is somewhere about.  We were just having a chat
when I was literally carried off by that terrible Lanchester
woman.  Let's find her."

They strolled up into the lounge.  Margaret came to meet them.
Her smile, as she gave Francis her left hand, transformed and
softened her whole appearance.

"You don't mind my having asked Cynthia to lunch with us?" she
said.  "I really couldn't get rid of the girl.  She came in to
see me this morning the most aggressively cheerful person I ever
knew.  I believe that she had an adventure last night.  All that
she will tell me is that she dined and danced at Claridge's with
a party of the dullest people in town."

A tall, familiar figure passed down the vestibule.  Lady Cynthia
gave a little start, and Francis, who happened to be watching
her, was amazed at her expression.

"Your father, Margaret!" she pointed out.  "I wonder if he is
lunching here."

"He told me that he was lunching somewhere with a South American
friend--one of his partners, I believe," Margaret replied.  "I
expect he is looking for him."

Sir Timothy caught sight of them, hesitated for a moment and came
slowly in their direction.

"Have you found your friend?" Margaret asked.

"The poor fellow is ill in bed," her father answered.  "I was
just regretting that I had sent the car away, or I should have
gone back to Hatch End."

"Stay and lunch with us," Lady Cynthia begged, a little
impetuously.

"I shall be very pleased if you will," Francis put in.  "I'll go
and tell the waiter to enlarge my table."

He hurried off.  On his way back, a page-boy touched him on the
arm.

"If you please, sir," he announced, "you are wanted on the
telephone."

"I?" Francis exclaimed.  "Some mistake, I should think.  Nobody
knows that I am here."

"Mr. Ledsam," the boy said.  "This way, sir."

Francis walked down the vestibule to the row of telephone boxes
at the further end.  The attendant who was standing outside,
indicated one of them and motioned the boy to go away.  Francis
stepped inside.  The man followed, closing the door behind him.

"I am asking your pardon, sir, for taking a great liberty," he
confessed.  "No one wants you on the telephone.  I wished to
speak to you."

Francis looked at him in surprise.  The man was evidently
agitated.  Somehow or other, his face was vaguely familiar.

"Who are you, and what do you want with me?" Francis asked.

"I was butler to Mr. Hilditch, sir," the man replied.  "I waited
upon you the night you dined there, sir--the night of Mr.
Hilditch's death."

"Well?"

"I have a revelation to make with regard to that night, sir," the
man went on, "which I should like to place in your hands.  It is
a very serious matter, and there are reasons why something must
be done about it at once.  Can I come and see you at your rooms,
sir?"

Francis studied the man for a moment intently.  He was evidently
agitated--evidently, too, in very bad health.  His furtive manner
was against him.  On the other hand, that might have arisen from
nervousness.

"I shall be in at half-past three, number 13 b, Clarges Street,"
Francis told him.

"I can get off for half-an-hour then, sir," the man replied.  "I
shall be very glad to come.  I must apologise for having troubled
you, sir."

Francis went slowly back to his trio of guests.  All the way down
the carpeted vestibule he was haunted by the grim shadow of a
spectral fear.  The frozen horror of that ghastly evening was
before him like a hateful tableau.  Hilditch's mocking words rang
in his cars: "My death is the one thing in the world which would
make my wife happy."  The Court scene, with all its gloomy
tragedy, rose before his eyes--only in the dock, instead of
Hilditch, he saw another!




CHAPTER XXIX


There were incidents connected with that luncheon which Francis
always remembered.  In the first place, Sir Timothy was a great
deal more silent than usual.  A certain vein of half-cynical,
half-amusing comment upon things and people of the moment, which
seemed, whenever he cared to exert himself, to flow from his lips
without effort, had deserted him.  He sat where the rather
brilliant light from the high windows fell upon his face, and
Francis wondered more than once whether there were not some
change there, perhaps some prescience of trouble to come, which
had subdued him and made him unusually thoughtful.  Another
slighter but more amusing feature of the luncheon was the number
of people who stopped to shake hands with Sir Timothy and made
more or less clumsy efforts to obtain an invitation to his coming
entertainment.  Sir Timothy's reply to these various hints was
barely cordial.  The most he ever promised was that he would
consult with his secretary and see if their numbers were already
full.  Lady Cynthia, as a somewhat blatant but discomfited Peer
of the Realm took his awkward leave of them, laughed softly.

"Of course, I think they all deserve what they get," she
declared.  "I never heard such brazen impudence in my life--from
people who ought to know better, too."

Lord Meadowson, a sporting peer, who was one of Sir Timothy's few
intimates, came over to the table.  He paid his respects to the
two ladies and Francis, and turned a little eagerly to Sir
Timothy.

"Well?" he asked.

Sir Timothy nodded.

"We shall be quite prepared for you," he said.  "Better bring
your cheque-book."

"Capital!" the other exclaimed.  "As I hadn't heard anything, I
was beginning to wonder whether you would be ready with your end
of the show."

"There will be no hitch so far as we are concerned," Sir Timothy
assured him.

"More mysteries?" Margaret enquired, as Meadowson departed with a
smile of satisfaction.

Her father shrugged his shoulders.

"Scarcely that," he replied.  "It is a little wager between Lord
Meadowson and myself which is to be settled to-morrow."

Lady Torrington, a fussy little woman, her hostess of the night
before, on her way down the room stopped and shook hands with
Lady Cynthia.

"Why, my dear," she exclaimed, "wherever did you vanish to last
night?  Claude told us all that, in the middle of a dance with
him, you excused yourself for a moment and he never saw you
again.  I quite expected to read in the papers this morning that
you had eloped."

"Precisely what I did," Lady Cynthia declared.  "The only trouble
was that my partner had had enough of me before the evening was
over, and deposited me once more in Grosvenor Square.  It is
really very humiliating," she went on meditatively, "how every
one always returns me."

"You talk such nonsense, Cynthia!" Lady Torrington exclaimed, a
little pettishly.  "However, you found your way home all right?"

"Quite safely, thank you.  I was going to write you a note this
afternoon.  I went away on an impulse.  All I can say is that I
am sorry.  Do forgive me."

"Certainly!" was the somewhat chilly reply.  "Somehow or other,
you seem to have earned the right to do exactly as you choose.
Some of my young men whom you had promised to dance with, were
disappointed, but after all, I suppose that doesn't matter."

"Not much," Lady Cynthia assented sweetly.  "I think a few
disappointments are good for most of the young men of to-day."

"What did you do last night, Cynthia?" Margaret asked her
presently, when Lady Torrington had passed on.

"I eloped with your father," Lady Cynthia confessed, smiling
across at Sir Timothy.  "We went for a little drive together and
I had a most amusing time.  The only trouble was, as I have been
complaining to that tiresome woman, he brought me home again."

"But where did you go to?" Margaret persisted.

"It was an errand of charity," Sir Timothy declared.

"It sounds very mysterious," Francis observed.  "Is that all we
are to be told?"

"I am afraid," Sir Timothy complained, "that very few people
sympathise with my hobbies or my prosecution of them.  That is
why such little incidents as last night's generally remain
undisclosed.  If you really wish to know what happened," he went
on, after a moment's pause, "I will tell you.  As you know, I
have a great many friends amongst the boxing fraternity, and I
happened to hear of a man down in the East End who has made
himself a terror to the whole community in which he lives.  I
took Peter Fields, my gymnasium instructor, down to the East End
last night, and Peter Fields--dealt with him."

"There was a fight?" Margaret exclaimed, with a little shudder.

"There was a fight," Sir Timothy repeated, "if you can call it
such.  Fields gave him some part of the punishment he deserved."

"And you were there, Cynthia?"

"I left Lady Cynthia in the car," Sir Timothy explained.  "She
most improperly bribed my chauffeur to lend her his coat and hat,
and followed me."

"You actually saw the fight, then?" Francis asked.

"I did," Lady Cynthia admitted.  "I saw it from the beginning to
the end."

Margaret looked across the table curiously.  It seemed to her
that her friend had turned a little paler.

"Did you like it?" she asked simply.

Lady Cynthia was silent for a moment.  She glanced at Sir
Timothy.  He, too, was waiting for her answer with evident
interest.

"I was thrilled," she acknowledged.  "That was the pleasurable
part of it I have been so, used to looking on at shows that bored
me, listening to conversations that wearied me, attempting
sensations which were repellent, that I just welcomed feeling,
when it came--feeling of any sort.  I was excited.  I forgot
everything else.  I was so fascinated that I could not look away.
But if you ask me whether I liked it, and I have to answer
truthfully, I hated it!  I felt nothing of the sort at the time,
but when I tried to sleep I found myself shivering.  It was
justice, I know, but it was ugly."

She watched Sir Timothy, as she made her confession, a little
wistfully.  He said nothing, but there was a very curious change
in his expression.  He smiled at her in an altogether unfamiliar
way.

"I suppose," she said, appealing to him, "that you are very
disappointed in me?"

"On the contrary," he answered, "I am delighted."

"You mean that?" she asked incredulously.

"I do," he declared.  "Companionship between our sexes is very
delightful so far as it goes, but the fundamental differences
between a man's outlook and tastes and a woman's should never be
bridged over.  I myself do not wish to learn to knit.  I do not
care for the womenkind in whom I am interested to appreciate and
understand fighting."

Margaret looked across the table in amazement.

"You are most surprising this morning, father," she declared.

"I am perhaps misunderstood," he sighed, "perhaps have acquired a
reputation for greater callousness than I possess.  Personally, I
love fighting.  I was born a fighter, and I should find no
happier way of ending my life than fighting, but, to put it
bluntly, fighting is a man's job."

"What about women going to see fights at the National Sporting
Club?" Lady Cynthia asked curiously.

"It is their own affair, but if you ask my opinion I do not
approve of it," Sir Timothy replied.  "I am indifferent upon the
subject, because I am indifferent upon the subject of the
generality of your sex," he added, with a little smile, "but I
simply hold that it is not a taste which should be developed in
women, and if they do develop it, it is at the expense of those
very qualities which make them most attractive."

Lady Cynthia took a cigarette from her case and leaned over to
Francis for a light.

"The world is changing," she declared.  "I cannot bear many more
shocks.  I fancied that I had written myself for ever out of Sir
Timothy's good books because of my confession just now."

He smiled across at her.  His words were words of courteous
badinage, but Lady Cynthia was conscious of a strange little
sense of pleasure.

"On the contrary," he assured her, "you found your way just a
little further into my heart."

"It seems to me, in a general sort of way," Margaret observed,
leaning back in her chair, "that you and my father are becoming
extraordinarily friendly, Cynthia."

"I am hopefully in love with your father," Lady Cynthia
confessed.  "It has been coming on for a long time.  I suspected
it the first time I ever met him.  Now I am absolutely certain."

"It's quite a new idea," Margaret remarked.  "Shall we like her
in the family, Francis?"

"No airs!" Lady Cynthia warned her.  "You two are not properly
engaged yet.  It may devolve upon me to give my consent."

"In that case," Francis replied, "I hope that we may at least
count upon your influence with Sir Timothy?"

"If you'll return the compliment and urge my suit with him," Lady
Cynthia laughed.  "I am afraid he can't quite make up his mind
about me, and I am so nice.  I haven't flirted nearly so much as
people think, and my instincts are really quite domestic."

"My position," Sir Timothy remarked, as he made an unsuccessful
attempt to possess himself of the bill which Francis had called
for, "is becoming a little difficult."

"Not really difficult," Lady Cynthia objected, "because the real
decision rests in your hands."

"Just listen to the woman!" Margaret exclaimed.  "Do you realise,
father, that Cynthia is making the most brazen advances to you?
And I was going to ask her if she'd like to come back to The
Sanctuary with us this evening!"

Lady Cynthia was suddenly eager.  Margaret glanced across at her
father.  Sir Timothy seemed almost imperceptibly to stiffen a
little.

"Margaret has carte blanche at The Sanctuary as regards her
visitors," he said.  "I am afraid that I shall be busy over at
The Walled House."

"But you'd come and dine with us?"

Sir Timothy hesitated.  An issue which had been looming in his
mind for many hours seemed to be suddenly joined.

"Please!" Lady Cynthia begged.

Sir Timothy followed the example of the others and rose to his
feet.  He avoided Lady Cynthia's eyes.  He seemed suddenly a
little tired.

"I will come and dine," he assented quietly.  "I am afraid that I
cannot promise more than that.  Lady Cynthia, as she knows, is
always welcome at The Sanctuary."




CHAPTER XXX


Punctual to his appointment that afternoon, the man who had
sought an interview with Francis was shown into the latter's
study in Clarges Street.

He wore an overcoat over his livery, and directly he entered the
room Francis was struck by his intense pallor.  He had been
trying feverishly to assure himself that all that the man
required was the usual sort of help, or assistance into a
hospital.  Yet there was something furtive in his visitor's
manner, something which suggested the bearer of a guilty secret.

"Please tell me what you want as quickly as you can," Francis
begged.  "I am due to start down into the country in a few
minutes."

"I won't keep you long, sir," the man replied.  "The matter is
rather a serious one."

"Are you ill?"

"Yes, sir!"

"You had better sit down."

The man relapsed gratefully into a chair.

"I'll leave out everything that doesn't count, sir," he said.
"I'll be as brief as I can.  I want you to go back to the night I
waited upon you at dinner the night Mr. Oliver Hilditch was found
dead.  You gave evidence.  The jury brought it in 'suicide.'  It
wasn't suicide at all, sir.  Mr. Hilditch was murdered."

The sense of horror against which he had been struggling during
the last few hours, crept once more through the whole being of
the man who listened.  He was face to face once more with that
terrible issue.  Had he perjured himself in vain?  Was the whole
structure of his dreams about to collapse, to fall about his
ears?

"By whom?" he faltered.

"By Sir Timothy Brast, sir."

Francis, who had been standing with his hand upon the table, felt
suddenly inclined to laugh.  Facile though his brain was, the
change of issues was too tremendous for him to readily assimilate
it.  He picked up a cigarette from an open box, with shaking
fingers, lit it, and threw himself into an easy-chair.  He was
all the time quite unconscious of what he was doing.

"Sir Timothy Brast?" he repeated.

"Yes, sir," the man reiterated.  "I wish to tell you the whole
story."

"I am listening," Francis assured him.

"That evening before dinner, Sir Timothy Brast called to see Mr.
Hilditch, and a very stormy interview took place.  I do not know
the rights of that, sir.  I only know that there was a fierce
quarrel.  Mrs. Hilditch came in and Sir Timothy left the house.
His last words to Mr. Hilditch were, 'You will hear from me again.'
As you know, sir--I mean as you remember, if you followed the
evidence--all the servants slept at the back of the house.  I
slept in the butler's room downstairs, next to the plate pantry.
I was awake when you left, sitting in my easy-chair, reading.
Ten minutes after you had left, there was a sound at the front
door as though some one had knocked with their knuckles.  I got
up, to open it but Mr. Hilditch was before me.  He admitted Sir
Timothy.  They went back into the library together.  It struck me
that Mr. Hilditch had had a great deal to drink, and there was a
queer look on Sir Timothy's face that I didn't understand.  I
stepped into the little room which communicates with the library
by folding doors.  There was a chink already between the two.  I
got a knife from the pantry and widened it until I could see
through.  I heard very little of the conversation but there was
no quarrel.  Mr. Hilditch took up the weapon which you know about,
sat in a chair and held it to his heart.  I heard him say something
like this.  'This ought to appeal to you, Sir Timothy.  You're a
specialist in this sort of thing.  One little touch, and there you
are.'  Mrs. Hilditch said something about putting it away.  My
master turned to Sir Timothy and said something in a low tone.
Suddenly Sir Timothy leaned over.  He caught hold of Mr. Hilditch's
hand which held the hilt of the dagger, and and--well, he just
drove it in, sir.  Then he stood away.  Mrs. Hilditch sprang up
and would have screamed, but Sir Timothy placed his hand over her
mouth.  In a moment I heard her say, 'What have you done?'  Sir
Timothy looked at Mr. Hilditch quite calmly.  'I have ridded the
world of a verminous creature,' he said.  My knees began to shake.
My nerves were always bad.  I crept back into my room, took off my
clothes and got into bed.  I had just put the light out when they
called for me."

Francis was himself again.  There was an immense relief, a joy in
his heart.  He had never for a single moment blamed Margaret, but
he had never for a single moment forgotten.  It was a closed
chapter but the stain was on its pages.  It was wonderful to tear
it out and scatter the fragments.

"I remember you at the inquest," he said.  "Your name is John
Walter."

"Yes, sir."

"Your evidence was very different."

"Yes, sir."

"You kept all this to yourself."

"I did, sir.  I thought it best."

"Tell me what has happened since?"

The man looked down at the table.

"I have always been a poor man, sir," he said.  "I have had bad
luck whenever I've made a try to start at anything.  I thought
there seemed a chance for me here.  I went to Sir Timothy and I
told him everything."

"Well?"

"Sir Timothy never turned a hair, sir.  When I had finished he
was very short with me, almost curt.  'You have behaved like a
man of sense, Walter,' he said.  'How much?'  I hesitated for
some time.  Then I could see he was getting impatient.  I doubled
what I had thought of first.  'A thousand pounds, sir,' I said.
Sir Timothy he went to a safe in the wall and he counted out a
thousand pounds in notes, there and then.  He brought them over
to me.  'Walter,' he said, 'there is your thousand pounds.  For
that sum I understand you promise to keep what you saw to
yourself?'  'Yes, sir,' I agreed.  'Take it, then,' he said, 'but
I want you to understand this.  There have been many attempts but
no one yet has ever succeeded in blackmailing me.  No one ever
will.  I give you this thousand pounds willingly.  It is what you
have asked for.  Never let me see your face again.  If you come
to me starving, it will be useless.  I shall not part with
another penny.'"

The man's simple way of telling his story, his speech, slow and
uneven on account of his faltering breath, seemed all to add to
the dramatic nature of his disclosure.  Francis found himself
sitting like a child who listens to a fairy story.

"And then?" he asked simply.

"I went off with the money," Walter continued, "and I had cruel
bad luck.  I put it into a pub.  I was robbed a little, I drank a
little, my wife wasn't any good.  I lost it all, sir.  I found
myself destitute.  I went back to Sir Timothy."

"Well?"

The man shifted his feet nervously.  He seemed to have come to
the difficult part of his story.

"Sir Timothy was as hard as nails," he said slowly.  "He saw me.
The moment I had finished, he rang the bell.  'Hedges,' he said
to the manservant who came in, 'this man has come here to try and
blackmail me.  Throw him out.  If he gives any trouble, send for
the police.  If he shows himself here again, send for the
police."'

"What happened then?"

"Well, I nearly blurted out the whole story," the man confessed,
"and then I remembered that wouldn't do me any good, so I went
away.  I got a job at the Ritz, but I was took ill a few days
afterwards.  I went to see a doctor.  From him I got my
death-warrant, sir."

"Is it heart?"

"It's heart, sir," the man acknowledged.  "The doctor told me I
might snuff out at any moment.  I can't live, anyway, for more
than a year.  I've got a little girl."

"Now just why have you come to see me?" Francis asked.

"For just this, sir," the man replied.  "Here's my account of
what happened," he went on, drawing some sheets of foolscap from
his pocket.  "It's written in my own hand and there are two
witnesses to my signature--one a clergyman, sir, and the other a
doctor, they thinking it was a will or something.  I had it in my
mind to send that to Scotland Yard, and then I remembered that I
hadn't a penny to leave my little girl.  I began to wonder--think
as meanly of me as you like, sir--how I could still make some
money out of this.  I happened to know that you were none too
friendly disposed towards Sir Timothy.  This confession of mine,
if it wouldn't mean hanging, would mean imprisonment for the rest
of his life.  You could make a better bargain with him than me,
sir.  Do you want to hold him in your power?  If so, you can have
this confession, all signed and everything, for two hundred
pounds, and as I live, sir, that two hundred pounds is to pay for
my funeral, and the balance for my little girl."

Francis took the papers and glanced them through.

"Supposing I buy this document from you," he said, "what is its
actual value?  You could write out another confession, get that
signed, and sell it to another of Sir Timothy's enemies, or you
could still go to Scotland Yard yourself."

"I shouldn't do that, sir, I assure you," the man declared
nervously, "not on my solemn oath.  I want simply to be quit of
the whole matter and have a little money for the child."

Francis considered for a moment.

"There is only one way I can see," he said, "to make this
document worth the money to me.  If you will sign a confession
that any statement you have made as to the death of Mr. Hilditch
is entirely imaginary, that you did not see Sir Timothy in the
house that night, that you went to bed at your usual time and
slept until you were awakened, and that you only made this charge
for the purpose of extorting money--if you will sign a confession
to that effect and give it me with these papers, I will pay you
the two hundred pounds and I will never use the confession unless
you repeat the charge."

"I'll do it, sir," the man assented.

Francis drew up a document, which his visitor read through and
signed.  Then he wrote out an open cheque.

"My servant shall take you to the bank in a taxi," he said.
"They would scarcely pay you this unless you were identified.  We
understand one another?"

"Perfectly, sir!"

Francis rang the bell, gave his servant the necessary orders, and
dismissed the two men.  Half-an-hour later, already changed into
flannels, he was on his way into the country.




CHAPTER XXXI


Sir Timothy walked that evening amongst the shadows.  Two hours
ago, the last of the workmen from the great furnishing and
catering establishments who undertook the management of his
famous entertainments, had ceased work for the day and driven off
in the motor-brakes hired to take them to the nearest town.  The
long, low wing whose use no one was able absolutely to divine,
was still full of animation, but the great reception-rooms and
stately hall were silent and empty.  In the gymnasium, an
enormous apartment as large as an ordinary concert hall, two or
three electricians were still at work, directed by the man who
had accompanied Sir Timothy to the East End on the night before.
The former crossed the room, his footsteps awaking strange
echoes.

"There will be seating for fifty, sir, and standing room for
fifty," he announced.  "I have had the ring slightly enlarged, as
you suggested, and the lighting is being altered so that the
start is exactly north and south."

Sir Timothy nodded thoughtfully.  The beautiful oak floor of the
place was littered with sawdust and shavings of wood.  Several
tiers of seats had been arranged on the space usually occupied by
swings, punching-balls and other artifices.  On a slightly raised
dais at the further end was an exact replica of a ring, corded
around and with sawdust upon the floor.  Upon the walls hung a
marvellous collection of weapons of every description, from the
modern rifle to the curved and terrible knife used by the most
savage of known tribes.

"How are things in the quarters?" Sir Timothy asked.

"Every one is well, sir.  Doctor Ballantyne arrived this
afternoon.  His report is excellent."

Sir Timothy nodded and turned away.  He looked into the great
gallery, its waxen floors shining with polish, ready for the feet
of the dancers on the morrow; looked into a beautiful concert-room,
with an organ that reached to the roof; glanced into the banquetting
hall, which extended far into the winter-garden; made his way up
the broad stairs, turned down a little corridor, unlocked a door and
passed into his own suite.  There was a small dining-room, a library,
a bedroom, and a bathroom fitted with every sort of device.  A
man-servant who had heard him enter, hurried from his own apartment
across the way.

"You are not dining here, sir? "he enquired.

Sir Timothy shook his head.

"No, I am dining late at The Sanctuary," he replied.  "I just
strolled over to see how the preparations were going on.  I shall
be sleeping over there, too.  Any prowlers?"

"Photographer brought some steps and photographed the horses in
the park from the top of the wall this afternoon, sir," the man
announced.  "Jenkins let him go.  Two or three pressmen sent in
their cards to you, but they were not allowed to pass the lodge."

Sir Timothy nodded.  Soon he left the house and crossed the park
towards The Sanctuary.  He was followed all the way by horses, of
which there were more than thirty in the great enclosure.  One
mare greeted him with a neigh of welcome and plodded slowly after
him.  Another pressed her nose against his shoulder and walked by
his side, with his hand upon her neck.  Sir Timothy looked a
little nervously around, but the park itself lay almost like a
deep green pool, unobserved, and invisible from anywhere except
the house itself.  He spoke a few words to each of the horses,
and, producing his key, passed through the door in the wall into
The Sanctuary garden, closing it quickly as he recognised Francis
standing under the cedar-tree.

"Has Lady Cynthia arrived yet?" he enquired.

"Not yet," Francis replied.  "Margaret will be here in a minute.
She told me to say that cocktails are here and that she has
ordered dinner served on the terrace."

"Excellent!" Sir Timothy murmured.  "Let me try one of your
cigarettes."

"Everything ready for the great show to-morrow night?" Francis
asked, as he served the cocktails.

"Everything is in order.  I wonder, really," Sir Timothy went on,
looking at Francis curiously, "what you expect to see?"

"I don't think we any of us have any definite idea," Francis
replied.  "We have all, of course, made our guesses."

"You will probably be disappointed," Sir Timothy warned him.
"For some reason or other--perhaps I have encouraged the idea
--people look upon my parties as mysterious orgies where things
take place which may not be spoken of.  They are right to some
extent.  I break the law, without a doubt, but I break it, I am
afraid, in rather a disappointing fashion."

A limousine covered in dust raced in at the open gates and came
to a standstill with a grinding of brakes.  Lady Cynthia stepped
lightly out and came across the lawn to them.

"I am hot and dusty and I was disagreeable," she confided, "but
the peace of this wonderful place, and the sight of that
beautiful silver thing have cheered me.  May I have a cocktail
before I go up to change?  I am a little late, I know," she went.
on, "but that wretched garden-party!  I thought my turn would
never come to receive my few words.  Mother would have been
broken-hearted if I had left without them.  What slaves we are to
royalty!  Now shall I hurry and change?  You men have the air of
wanting your dinner, and I am rather that way myself.  You look
tired, dear host," she added, a little hesitatingly.

"The heat," he answered.

"Why you ever leave this spot I can't imagine," she declared, as
she turned away, with a lingering glance around.  "It seems like
Paradise to come here and breathe this air.  London is like a
furnace."

The two men were alone again.  In Francis' pocket were the two
documents, which he had not yet made up his mind how to use.
Margaret came out to them presently, and he strolled away with
her towards the rose garden.

"Margaret," he said, "is it my fancy or has there been a change
in your father during the last few days?"

"There is a change of some sort," she admitted.  "I cannot
describe it.  I only know it is there.  He seems much more
thoughtful and less hard.  The change would be an improvement,"
she went on, "except that somehow or other it makes me feel
uneasy.  It is as though he were grappling with some crisis."

They came to a standstill at the end of the pergola, where the
masses of drooping roses made the air almost faint with their
perfume.  Margaret stretched out her hand, plucked a handful of
the creamy petals and held them against her cheek.  A thrush was
singing noisily.  A few yards away they heard the soft swish of
the river.

"Tell me," she asked curiously, "my father still speaks of you as
being in some respects an enemy.  What does he mean?"

"I will tell you exactly," he answered.  "The first time I ever
spoke to your father I was dining at Soto's.  I was talking to
Andrew Wilmore.  It was only a short time after you had told me
the story of Oliver Hilditch, a story which made me realise the
horror of spending one's life keeping men like that out of the
clutch of the law."

"Go on, please," she begged.

"Well, I was talking to Andrew.  I told him that in future I
should accept no case unless I not only believed in but was
convinced of the innocence of my client.  I added that I was at
war with crime.  I think, perhaps, I was so deeply in earnest
that I may have sounded a little flamboyant.  At any rate, your
father, who had overheard me, moved up to our table.  I think he
deduced from what I was saying that I was going to turn into a
sort of amateur crime-investigator, a person who I gathered later
was particularly obnoxious to him.  At any rate, he held out a
challenge.  'If you are a man who hates crime,' he said, or
something like it, 'I am one who loves it.'  He then went on to
prophesy that a crime would be committed close to where we were,
within an hour or so, and he challenged me to discover the
assassin.  That night Victor Bidlake was murdered just outside
Soto's."

"I remember!  Do you mean to tell me, then," Margaret went on,
with a little shiver, "that father told you this was going to
happen?"

"He certainly did," Francis replied.  "How his knowledge came I
am not sure--yet.  But he certainly knew."

"Have you anything else against him?" she asked.

"There was the disappearance of Andrew Wilmore's younger brother,
Reginald Wilmore.  I have no right to connect your father with
that, but Shopland, the Scotland Yard detective, who has charge
of the case, seems to believe that the young man was brought into
this neighbourhood, and some other indirect evidence which came
into my hands does seem to point towards your father being
concerned in the matter.  I appealed to him at once but he only
laughed at me.  That matter, too, remains a mystery."

Margaret was thoughtful for a moment.  Then she turned towards
the house.  They heard the soft ringing of the gong.

"Will you believe me when I tell you this?" she begged, as they
passed arm in arm down the pergola.  "I am terrified of my
father, though in many ways he is almost princely in his
generosity and in the broad view he takes of things.  Then his
kindness to all dumb animals, and the way they love him, is the
most amazing thing I ever knew.  If we were alone here to-night,
every animal in the house would be around his chair.  He has even
the cats locked up if we have visitors, so that no one shall see
it.  But I am quite honest when I tell you this--I do not believe
that my father has the ordinary outlook upon crime.  I believe
that there is a good deal more of the Old Testament about him
than the New."

"And this change which we were speaking about?" he asked,
lowering his voice as they reached the lawn.

"I believe that somehow or other the end is coming," she said.
"Francis, forgive me if I tell you this--or rather let me be
forgiven--but I know of one crime my father has committed, and it
makes me fear that there may be others.  And I have the feeling,
somehow, that the end is close at hand and that he feels it, just
as we might feel a thunder-storm in the air."

"I am going to prove the immemorial selfishness of my sex," he
whispered, as they drew near the little table.  "Promise me one
thing and I don't care if your father is Beelzebub himself.
Promise me that, whatever happens, it shall not make any
difference to us?"

She smiled at him very wonderfully, a smile which had to take the
place of words, for there were servants now within hearing, and
Sir Timothy himself was standing in the doorway.




CHAPTER XXXII


Lady Cynthia and Sir Timothy strolled after dinner to the bottom
of the lawn and watched the punt which Francis was propelling
turn from the stream into the river.

"Perfectly idyllic," Lady Cynthia sighed.

"We have another punt," her companion suggested.

She shook her head.

"I am one of those unselfish people," she declared, "whose idea
of repose is not only to rest oneself but to see others rest.  I
think these two chairs, plenty of cigarettes, and you in your
most gracious and discoursive mood, will fill my soul with
content."

"Your decision relieves my mind," her companion declared, as he
arranged the cushions behind her back.  "I rather fancy myself
with a pair of sculls, but a punt-pole never appealed to me.  We
will sit here and enjoy the peace.  To-morrow night you will find
it all disturbed--music and raucous voices and the stampede of my
poor, frightened horses in the park.  This is really a very
gracious silence."

"Are those two really going to marry?" Lady Cynthia asked, moving
her head lazily in the direction of the disappearing punt.

"I imagine so."

"And you?  What are you going to do then?"

"I am planning a long cruise.  I telegraphed to Southampton to-day.
I am having my yacht provisioned and prepared.  I think I shall go
over to South America."

She was silent for a moment.

"Alone?" she asked presently.

"I am always alone," he answered.

"That is rather a matter of your own choice, is it not?"

"Perhaps so.  I have always found it hard to make friends.
Enemies seem to be more in my line."

"I have not found it difficult to become your friend," she
reminded him.

"You are one of my few successes," he replied.

She leaned back with half-closed eyes.  There was nothing new
about their environment--the clusters of roses, the perfume of
the lilies in the rock garden, the even sweeter fragrance of the
trim border of mignonette.  Away in the distance, the night was
made momentarily ugly by the sound of a gramophone on a passing
launch, yet this discordant note seemed only to bring the perfection
of present things closer.  Back across the velvety lawn, through the
feathery strips of foliage, the lights of The Sanctuary, shaded and
subdued, were dimly visible.  The dining-table under the cedar-tree
had already been cleared.  Hedges, newly arrived from town to play
the major domo, was putting the finishing touches to a little array
of cool drinks.  And beyond, dimly seen but always there, the wall.
She turned to him suddenly.

"You build a wall around your life," she said, "like the wall
which encircles your mystery house.  Last night I thought that I
could see a little way over the top.  To-night you are different."

"If I am different," he answered quietly, "it is because, for the
first time for many years, I have found myself wondering whether
the life I had planned for myself, the things which I had planned
should make life for me, are the best.  I have had doubts--perhaps
I might say regrets."

"I should like to go to South America," Lady Cynthia declared
softly.

He finished the cigarette which he was smoking and deliberately
threw away the stump.  Then he turned and looked at her.  His
face seemed harder than ever, clean-cut, the face of a man able
to defy Fate, but she saw something in his eyes which she had
never seen before.

"Dear child," he said, "if I could roll back the years, if from
all my deeds of sin, as the world knows sin, I could cancel one,
there is nothing in the world would make me happier than to ask
you to come with me as my cherished companion to just whatever
part of the world you cared for.  But I have been playing pitch
and toss with fortune all my life, since the great trouble came
which changed me so much.  Even at this moment, the coin is in
the air which may decide my fate."

"You mean?" she ventured.

"I mean," he continued, "that after the event of which we spoke
last night, nothing in life has been more than an incident, and I
have striven to find distraction by means which none of you--not
even you, Lady Cynthia, with all your breadth of outlook and all
your craving after new things--would justify."

"Nothing that you may have done troubles me in the least," she
assured him.  "I do wish that you could put it all out of your
mind and let me help you to make a fresh start."

"I may put the thing itself out of my mind," he answered sadly,
"but the consequences remain."

"There is a consequence which threatens?" she asked.

He was silent for a moment.  When he spoke again, he had
recovered all his courage.

"There is the coin in the air of which I spoke," he replied.
"Let us forget it for a moment.  Of the minor things I will
make you my judge.  Ledsam and Margaret are coming to my party
to-morrow night.  You, too, shall be my guest.  Such secrets as
lie on the other side of that wall shall be yours.  After that,
if I survive your judgment of them, and if the coin which I have
thrown into the air comes, down to the tune I call--after that--I
will remind you of something which happened last night--of
something which, if I live for many years, I shall never forget."

She leaned towards him.  Her eyes were heavy with longing.  Her
arms, sweet and white in the dusky twilight, stole hesitatingly
out.

"Last night was so long ago.  Won't you take a later memory?"

Once again she lay in his arms, still and content.

As they crossed the lawn, an hour or so later, they were
confronted by Hedges--who hastened, in fact, to meet them.

"You are being asked for on the telephone, sir," he announced.
"It is a trunk call.  I have switched it through to the study."

"Any name?" Sir Timothy asked indifferently.

The man hesitated.  His eyes sought his master's respectfully but
charged with meaning.

"The person refuses to give his name, sir, but I fancied that I
recognised his voice.  I think it would be as well for you to
speak, sir."

Lady Cynthia sank into a chair.

"You shall go and answer your telephone call," she said, "and
leave Hedges to serve me with one of these strange drinks.  I
believe I see some of my favourite orangeade."

Sir Timothy made his way into the house and into the low,
oak-beamed study with its dark furniture and latticed windows.
The telephone bell began to ring again as he entered.  He took
up the receiver.

"Sir Timothy?" a rather hoarse, strained voice asked.

"I am speaking," Sir Timothy replied.  "Who is it?"

The man at the other end spoke as though he were out of breath.
Nevertheless, what he said was distinct enough.

"I am John Walter."

"Well?"

"I am just ringing you up," the voice went on, "to give you
what's called a sporting chance.  There's a boat from Southampton
midday tomorrow.  If you're wise, you'll catch it.  Or better
still, get off on your own yacht.  They carry a wireless now,
these big steamers.  Don't give a criminal much of a chance, does
it?"

"I am to understand, then," Sir Timothy said calmly, "that you
have laid your information?"

"I've parted with it and serve you right," was the bitter reply.
"I'm not saying that you're not a brave man, Sir Timothy, but
there's such a thing as being foolhardy, and that's what you are.
I wasn't asking you for half your fortune, nor even a dab of it,
but if your life wasn't worth a few hundred pounds--you, with all
that money--well, it wasn't worth saving.  So now you know.  I've
spent ninepence to give you a chance to hop it, because I met a
gent who has been good to me.  I've had a good dinner and I feel
merciful.  So there you are."

"Do I gather," Sir Timothy asked, in a perfectly level tone,
"that the deed is already done?"

"It's already done and done thoroughly," was the uncompromising
answer.  "I'm not ringing up to ask you to change your mind.  If
you were to offer me five thousand now, or ten, I couldn't stop
the bally thing.  You've a sporting chance of getting away if you
start at once.  That's all there is to it."

"You have nothing more to say?"

"Nothing!  Only I wish to God I'd never stepped into that Mayfair
agency.  I wish I'd never gone to Mrs. Hilditch's as a temporary
butler.  I wish I'd never seen any one of you!  That's all.  You
can go to Hell which way you like, only, if you take my advice,
you'll go by the way of South America.  The scaffold isn't every
man's fancy."

There was a burr of the instrument and then silence.  Sir Timothy
carefully replaced the receiver, paused on his way out of the
room to smell a great bowl of lavender, and passed back into the
garden.

"More applicants for invitations?" Lady Cynthia enquired lazily.

Her host smiled.

"Not exactly!  Although," he added, "as a matter of fact my party
would have been perhaps a little more complete with the presence
of the person to whom I have been speaking."

Lady Cynthia pointed to the stream, down which the punt was
slowly drifting.  The moon had gone behind a cloud, and Francis'
figure, as he stood there, was undefined and ghostly.  A thought
seemed to flash into her mind.  She leaned forward.

"Once," she said, "he told me that he was your enemy."

"The term is a little melodramatic," Sir Timothy protested.  "We
look at certain things from opposite points of view.  You see, my
prospective son-in-law, if ever he becomes that, represents the
law--the Law with a capital 'L'--which recognises no human errors
or weaknesses, and judges crime out of the musty books of the
law-givers of old.  He makes of the law a mechanical thing which
can neither bend nor give, and he judges humanity from the same
standpoint.  Yet at heart he is a good fellow and I like him."

"And you?"

"My weakness lies the other way," he confessed, "and my sympathy
is with those who do not fear to make their own laws."

She held out her hand, white and spectral in the momentary gloom.
At the other end of the lawn, Francis and Margaret were
disembarking from the punt.

"Does it sound too shockingly obvious," she murmured, "if I say
that I want to make you my law?"




CHAPTER XXXIII


It would have puzzled anybody, except, perhaps, Lady Cynthia
herself, to have detected the slightest alteration in Sir
Timothy's demeanour during the following day, when he made fitful
appearances at The Sanctuary, or at the dinner which was served a
little earlier than usual, before his final departure for the
scene of the festivities.  Once he paused in the act of helping
himself to some dish and listened for a moment to the sound of
voices in the hall, and when a taxicab drove up he set down his
glass and again betrayed some interest.

"The maid with my frock, thank heavens!" Lady Cynthia announced,
glancing out of the window.  "My last anxiety is removed.  I am
looking forward now to a wonderful night."

"You may very easily be disappointed," her host warned her.  "My
entertainments appeal more, as a rule, to men."

"Why don't you be thoroughly original and issue no invitations to
women at all?" Margaret enquired.

"For the same reason that you adorn your rooms and the dinner-table
with flowers," he answered.  "One needs them--as a relief.  Apart
from that, I am really proud of my dancing-room, and there again,
you see, your sex is necessary."

"We are flattered," Margaret declared, with a little bow.  "It
does seem queer to think that you should own what Cynthia's
cousin, Davy Hinton, once told me was the best floor in London,
and that I have never danced on it."

"Nor I," Lady Cynthia put in.  "There might have been some excuse
for not asking you, Margaret, but why an ultra-Bohemian like
myself has had to beg and plead for an invitation, I really
cannot imagine."

"You might find," Sir Timothy said, "you may even now--that some
of my men guests are not altogether to your liking."

"Quite content to take my risk," Lady Cynthia declared
cheerfully.  "The man with the best manners I ever met--it was at
one of Maggie's studio dances, too--was a bookmaker.  And a
retired prize-fighter brought me home once from an Albert Hall
dance."

"How did he behave?" Francis asked.

"He was wistful but restrained," Lady Cynthia replied, "quite the
gentleman, in fact."

"You encourage me to hope for the best," Sir Timothy said, rising
to his feet.  "You will excuse me now?  I have a few final
preparations to make."

"Are we to be allowed," Margaret enquired, "to come across the
park?"

"You would not find it convenient," her father assured her.  "You
had better order a car, say for ten o'clock.  Don't forget to
bring your cards of invitation, and find me immediately you
arrive.  I wish to direct your proceedings to some extent."

Lady Cynthia strolled across with him to the postern-gate and
stood by his side after he had opened it.  Several of the
animals, grazing in different parts of the park, pricked up their
ears at the sound.  An old mare came hobbling towards him; a
flea-bitten grey came trotting down the field, his head in the
air, neighing loudly.

"You waste a great deal of tenderness upon your animal friends,
dear host," she murmured.

He deliberately looked away from her.

"The reciprocation, at any rate, has its disadvantages," he
remarked, glancing a little disconsolately at the brown hairs
upon his coat-sleeve.  "I shall have to find another coat before
I can receive my guests--which is a further reason," he added,
"why I must hurry."

At the entrance to the great gates of The Walled House, two men
in livery were standing.  One of them examined with care the red
cards of invitation, and as soon as he was satisfied the gates
were opened by some unseen agency.  The moment the car had passed
through, they were closed again.

"Father seems thoroughly mediaeval over this business," Margaret
remarked, looking about her with interest.  "What a quaint
courtyard, too!  It really is quite Italian."

"It seems almost incredible that you have never been here!" Lady
Cynthia exclaimed.  "Curiosity would have brought me if I had had
to climb over the wall!"

"It does seem absurd in one way," Margaret agreed, "but, as a
matter of fact, my father's attitude about the place has always
rather set me against it.  I didn't feel that there was any
pleasure to be gained by coming here.  I won't tell you really
what I did think.  We must keep to our bargain.  We are not to
anticipate."

At the front entrance, under the covered portico, the white
tickets which they had received in exchange for their tickets of
invitation, were carefully collected by another man, who stopped
the car a few yards from the broad, curving steps.  After that,
there was no more suggestion of inhospitality.  The front doors,
which were of enormous size and height, seemed to have been
removed, and in the great domed hall beyond Sir Timothy was
already receiving his guests.  Being without wraps, the little
party made an immediate entrance.  Sir Timothy, who was talking
to one of the best-known of the foreign ambassadors, took a step
forward to meet them.

"Welcome," he said, "you, the most unique party, at least,
amongst my guests.  Prince, may I present you to my daughter,
Mrs. Hilditch?  Lady Cynthia Milton and Mr. Ledsam you know, I
believe."

"Your father has just been preparing me for this pleasure," the
Prince remarked, with a smile.  "I am delighted that his views as
regards these wonderful parties are becoming a little more--would
it be correct to say latitudinarian?  He has certainly been very
strict up to now."

"It is the first time I have been vouchsafed an invitation,"
Margaret confessed.

"You will find much to interest you," the Prince observed.  "For
myself, I love the sport of which your father is so noble a
patron.  That, without doubt, though, is a side of his
entertainment of which you will know nothing."

Sir Timothy, choosing a moment's respite from the inflowing
stream of guests, came once more across to them.

"I am going to leave you, my honoured guests from The Sanctuary,"
he said, with a faint smile, "to yourselves for a short time.  In
the room to your left, supper is being served.  In front is the
dancing-gallery.  To the right, as you see, is the lounge leading
into the winter-garden.  The gymnasium is closed until midnight.
Any other part of the place please explore at your leisure, but I
am going to ask you one thing.  I want you to meet me in a room
which I will show you, at a quarter to twelve."

He led them down one of the corridors which opened from the hall.
Before the first door on the right a man-servant was standing as
though on sentry duty.  Sir Timothy tapped the panel of the door
with his forefinger.

"This is my sanctum," he announced.  "I allow no one in here
without special permission.  I find it useful to have a place to
which one can come and rest quite quietly sometimes.  Williams
here has no other duty except to guard the entrance.  Williams,
you will allow this gentleman and these two ladies to pass in at
a quarter to twelve."

The man looked at them searchingly.

"Certainly, sir," he said.  "No one else?"

"No one, under any pretext."

Sir Timothy hurried back to the hall, and the others followed him
in more leisurely fashion.  They were all three full of
curiosity.

"I never dreamed," Margaret declared, as she looked around her,
"that I should ever find myself inside this house.  It has always
seemed to me like one great bluebeard's chamber.  If ever my
father spoke of it at all, it was as of a place which he intended
to convert into a sort of miniature Hell."

Sir Timothy leaned back to speak to them as they passed.

"You will find a friend over there, Ledsam," he said.

Wilmore turned around and faced them.  The two men exchanged
somewhat surprised greetings.

"No idea that I was coming until this afternoon," Wilmore
explained.  "I got my card at five o'clock, with a note from Sir
Timothy's secretary.  I am racking my brains to imagine what it
can mean."

"We're all a little addled," Francis confessed.  "Come and join
our tour of exploration.  You know Lady Cynthia.  Let me present
you to Mrs. Hilditch."

The introduction was effected and they all, strolled on together.
Margaret and Lady Cynthia led the way into the winter-garden, a
palace of glass, tall palms, banks of exotics, flowering shrubs
of every description, and a fountain, with wonderfully carved
water nymphs, brought with its basin from Italy.  Hidden in the
foliage, a small orchestra was playing very softly.  The
atmosphere of the place was languorous and delicious.

"Leave us here," Margaret insisted, with a little exclamation of
content.  "Neither Cynthia nor I want to go any further.  Come
back and fetch us in time for our appointment."

The two men wandered off.  The place was indeed a marvel of
architecture, a country house, of which only the shell remained,
modernised and made wonderful by the genius of a great architect.
The first room which they entered when they left the winter-garden,
was as large as a small restaurant, panelled in cream colour, with
a marvellous ceiling.  There were tables of various sizes laid for
supper, rows of champagne bottles in ice buckets, and servants
eagerly waiting for orders.  Already a sprinkling of the guests
had found their way here.  The two men crossed the floor to the
cocktail bar in the far corner, behind which a familiar face
grinned at them.  It was Jimmy, the bartender from Soto's, who
stood there with a wonderful array of bottles on a walnut table.

"If it were not a perfectly fatuous question, I should ask what
you were doing here, Jimmy?" Francis remarked.

"I always come for Sir Timothy's big parties, sir," Jimmy
explained.  "Your first visit, isn't it, sir?"

"My first," Francis assented.

"And mine," his companion echoed.

"What can I have the pleasure of making for you, sir?" the man
enquired.

"A difficult question," Francis admitted.  "It is barely an hour
and a half since we finished diner.  On the other hand, we are
certainly going to have some supper some time or other."

Jimmy nodded understandingly.

"Leave it to me, sir," he begged.

He served them with a foaming white concoction in tall glasses.
A genuine lime bobbed up and down in the liquid.

"Sir Timothy has the limes sent over from his own estate in South
America," Jimmy announced.  "You will find some things in that
drink you don't often taste."

The two men sipped their beverage and pronounced it delightful.
Jimmy leaned a little across the table.

"A big thing on to-night, isn't there, sir?" he asked cautiously.

"Is there?" Francis replied.  "You mean--?"

Jimmy motioned towards the open window, close to which the river
was flowing by.

"You going down, sir?"

Francis shook his head dubiously.

"Where to?"

The bartender looked with narrowed eyes from one to the other of
the two men.  Then he suddenly froze up.  Wilmore leaned a little
further over the impromptu counter.

"Jimmy," he asked, "what goes on here besides dancing and boxing
and gambling?"

"I never heard of any gambling," Jimmy answered, shaking his
head.  "Sir Timothy doesn't care about cards being played here at
all."

"What is the principal entertainment, then?" Francis demanded.
"The boxing?"

The bartender shook his head.

"No one understands very much about this house, sir," he said,
"except that it offers the most wonderful entertainment in
Europe.  That is for the guests to find out, though.  We servants
have to attend to our duties.  Will you let me mix you another
drink, sir?"

"No, thanks," Francis answered.  "The last was too good to spoil.
But you haven't answered my question, Jimmy.  What did you mean
when you asked if we were going down?"

Jimmy's face had become wooden.

"I meant nothing, sir," he said.  "Sorry I spoke."

The two men turned away.  They recognised many acquaintances in
the supper-room, and in the long gallery beyond, where many
couples were dancing now to the music of a wonderful orchestra.
By slow stages they made their way back to the winter-garden,
where Lady Cynthia and Margaret were still lost in admiration
of their surroundings.  They all walked the whole length of
the place.  Beyond, down a flight of stone steps, was a short,
paved way to the river.  A large electric launch was moored at
the quay.  The grounds outside were dimly illuminated with
cunningly-hidden electric lights shining through purple-coloured
globes into the cloudy darkness.  In the background, enveloping
the whole of the house and reaching to the river on either side,
the great wall loomed up, unlit, menacing almost in its suggestions.
A couple of loiterers stood within a few yards of them, looking
at the launch.

"There she is, ready for her errand, whatever it may be," one
said to the other curiously.  "We couldn't play the stowaway, I
suppose, could we?"

"Dicky Bell did that once," the other answered.  "Sir Timothy has
only one way with intruders.  He was thrown into the river and
jolly nearly drowned."

The two men passed out of hearing.

"I wonder what part the launch plays in the night's
entertainment," Wilmore observed.

Francis shrugged his shoulders.

"I have given up wondering," he said.  "Margaret, do you hear
that music?"

She laughed.

"Are we really to dance?" she murmured.  "Do you want to make a
girl of me again?"

"Well, I shouldn't be a magician, should I?" he answered.

They passed into the ballroom and danced for some time.  The
music was seductive and perfect, without any of the blatant notes
of too many of the popular orchestras.  The floor seemed to sway
under their feet.

"This is a new joy come back into life!" Margaret exclaimed, as
they rested for a moment.

"The first of many," he assured her.

They stood in the archway between the winter-garden and the
dancing-gallery, from which they could command a view of the
passing crowds.  Francis scanned the faces of the men and women
with intense interest.  Many of them were known to him by sight,
others were strangers.  There was a judge, a Cabinet Minister,
various members of the aristocracy, a sprinkling from the foreign
legations, and although the stage was not largely represented,
there were one or two well-known actors.  The guests seemed to
belong to no universal social order, but to Francis, watching
them almost eagerly, they all seemed to have something of the
same expression, the same slight air of weariness, of restless
and unsatisfied desires.

"I can't believe that the place is real, or that these people we
see are not supers," Margaret whispered.

"I feel every moment that a clock will strike and that it will
all fade away."

"I'm afraid I'm too material for such imaginings," Francis
replied, "but there is a quaintly artificial air about it all.
We must go and look for Wilmore and Lady Cynthia."

They turned back into the enervating atmosphere of the winter-garden,
and came suddenly face to face with Sir Timothy, who had escorted a
little party of his guests to see the fountain, and was now
returning alone.

"You have been dancing, I am glad to see," the latter observed.
"I trust that you are amusing yourselves?"

"Excellently, thank you," Francis replied.

"And so far," Sir Timothy went on, with a faint smile, "you find
my entertainment normal?  You have no question yet which you
would like to ask?"

"Only one--what do you do with your launch up the river on
moonless nights, Sir Timothy?"

Sir Timothy's momentary silence was full of ominous significance.

"Mr. Ledsam," he said, after a brief pause, "I have given you
almost carte blanche to explore my domains here.  Concerning the
launch, however, I think that you had better ask no questions at
present."

"You are using it to-night?" Francis persisted.

"Will you come and see, my venturesome guest?"

"With great pleasure," was the prompt reply.

Sir Timothy glanced at his watch.

"That," he said, "is one of the matters of which we will speak at
a quarter to twelve.  Meanwhile, let me show you something.  It
may amuse you as it has done me."

The three moved back towards one of the arched openings which led
into the ballroom.

"Observe, if you please," their host continued, "the third couple
who pass us.  The girl is wearing green--the very little that she
does wear.  Watch the man, and see if he reminds you of any one."

Francis did as he was bidden.  The girl was a well-known member
of the chorus of one of the principal musical comedies, and she
seemed to be thoroughly enjoying both the dance and her partner.
The latter appeared to be of a somewhat ordinary type, sallow,
with rather puffy cheeks, and eyes almost unnaturally dark.  He
danced vigorously and he talked all the time.  Something about
him was vaguely familiar to Francis, but he failed to place him.

"Notwithstanding all my precautions," Sir Timothy continued,
"there, fondly believing himself to be unnoticed, is an emissary
of Scotland Yard.  Really, of all the obvious, the dry-as-dust,
hunt-your-criminal-by-rule-of-three kind of people I ever met,
the class of detective to which this man belongs can produce the
most blatant examples."

"What are you going to do about him?" Francis asked.

Sir Timothy shrugged his shoulders.

"I have not yet made up my mind," he said.  "I happen to know
that he has been laying his plans for weeks to get here,
frequenting Soto's and other restaurants, and scraping
acquaintances with some of my friends.  The Duke of Tadchester
brought him--won a few hundreds from him at baccarat, I suppose.
His grace will never again find these doors open to him."

Francis' attention had wandered.  He was gazing fixedly at the
man whom Sir Timothy had pointed out.

"You still do not fully recognise our friend," the latter
observed carelessly.  "He calls himself Manuel Loito, and he
professes to be a Cuban.  His real name I understood, when you
introduced us, to be Shopland."

"Great heavens, so it is!" Francis exclaimed.

"Let us leave him to his precarious pleasures," Sir Timothy
suggested.  "I am free for a few moments.  We will wander round
together."

They found Lady Cynthia and Wilmore, and looked in at the
supper-room, where people were waiting now for tables, a babel of
sound and gaiety.  The grounds and winter-gardens were crowded.
Their guide led the way to a large apartment on the other side of
the hall, from which the sound of music was proceeding.

"My theatre," he said.  "I wonder what is going on."

They passed inside.  There was a small stage with steps leading
down to the floor, easy-chairs and round tables everywhere, and
waiters serving refreshments.  A girl was dancing.  Sir Timothy
watched her approvingly.

"Nadia Ellistoff," he told them.  "She was in the last Russian
ballet, and she is waiting now for the rest of the company to
start again at Covent Garden.  You see, it is Metzger who plays
there.  They improvise.  Rather a wonderful performance, I
think."

They watched her breathlessly, a spirit in grey tulle, with great
black eyes now and then half closed.

"It is 'Wind before Dawn,'" Lady Cynthia whispered.  "I heard him
play it two days after he composed it, only there are variations
now.  She is the soul of the south wind."

The curtain went down amidst rapturous applause.  The dancer
had left the stage, floating away into some sort of
wonderfully-contrived nebulous background.  Within a few moments,
the principal comedian of the day was telling stories.  Sir Timothy
led them away.

"But how on earth do you get all these people?" Lady Cynthia
asked.

"It is arranged for me," Sir Timothy replied.  "I have an agent
who sees to it all.  Every man or woman who is asked to perform,
has a credit at Cartier's for a hundred guineas.  I pay no fees.
They select some little keepsake."

Margaret laughed softly.

"No wonder they call this place a sort of Arabian Nights!" she
declared.

"Well, there isn't much else for you to see," Sir Timothy said
thoughtfully.  "My gymnasium, which is one of the principal
features here, is closed just now for a special performance, of
which I will speak in a moment.  The concert hall I see they are
using for an overflow dance-room.  What you have seen, with the
grounds and the winter-garden, comprises almost everything."

They moved back through the hall with difficulty.  People were
now crowding in.  Lady Cynthia laughed softly.

"Why, it is like a gala night at the Opera, Sir Timothy!" she
exclaimed.  "How dare you pretend that this is Bohemia!"

"It has never been I who have described my entertainments," he
reminded her.  "They have been called everything--orgies,
debauches--everything you can think of.  I have never ventured
myself to describe them."

Their passage was difficult.  Every now and then Sir Timothy was
compelled to shake hands w