k how you
can write these sweet novels!  And it's all just like that part.
Lord Hawke himself says it's all poetry.  For my part, I'm sure I
never could write so.  I suppose, Miss Burney, you are producing
another,--a'n't you?"

"No, ma'am."

227

"oh, I dare say you are.  I dare say you are writing one this
Very minute!"

 Mrs. Paradise now came up to me again, followed by a square man,
middle-aged, and hum-drum, who, I found was Lord Say and Sele,
afterwards from the Kirwans, for though they introduced him to
me, I was so confounded by their vehemence and their manners,
that I did not hear his name.

"Miss Burney," said Mrs. P.,, presenting me to him, "authoress of
'Evelina.'"

"Yes," cried Lady Say and Sele, starting up, "'tis the authoress
of 'Evelina!'"

"Of what ? " cried he.

"Of 'Evelina.'  You'd never think it,--she looks so young, to
have so much invention, and such an elegant style!  Well, I could
write a play, I think, but I'm sure I could never write a novel."

"Oh, yes, you could, if you would try," said Lady Hawke.

"Oh, no, I could not," answered she; "I could not get a style--
that's the thing--I could not tell how to get a style! and a
novel's nothing without a style, you know!"

"Why no," said Lady Hawke; "that's true.  But then you write such
charming letters, you know!"

"Letters!" repeated Lady S. and S. simpering; "do you tbink so?
Do you know I wrote a long letter to Mrs. Ray just before I came
here, this very afternoon,--quite a long letter!  I did, I assure
you!"

Here Mrs. Paradise came forward with another gentleman, younger,
slimmer, and smarter, and saying to me, "Sir Gregory Page
Turner," said to him,

"Miss Burney, authoress of 'Evelina.'"

At which Lady Say and Sele, In fresh transport, again rose, and
rapturously again repeated--

"Yes, she's authoress of 'Evelina'!  Have you read it?"

"No; is it to be had?"


"Oh dear, yes!  it's been printed these two years!  You'd never
think it!  But it's the most elegant novel I ever read in my
life.  Writ in such a style!"

"Certainly," said he very civilly; "I have every inducement to
get it.  Pray where is it to be had? everywhere, I suppose?"

"Oh, nowhere, I hope,"  cried I, wishing at that moment it had
been never in human ken.
228

My square friend, Lord Say and Sele, then putting his head
forward, said, very solemnly, "I'll purchase it!"

His lady then mentioned to me a hundred novels that I had never
heard of, asking my opinion of them, and whether I knew the
authors? Lady Hawke only occasionally and languidlv joining in
the discourse: and then Lady S. and S., sudclertl rising, begged
me not to move, for she should be back again in a minute, and
flew to the next room.

I took, however, the first opportunity of Lady Hawke's casting
down her eyes, and reclining her delicate head, to make away from
this terrible set; and, just as I was got by the pianoforte,
where I hoped Pacchierotti would soon present himself, Mrs.
Paradise again came to me, and said,-

"Miss Burney, Lady Say and Sele wishes vastly to cultivate your
acquaintance, and begs to know if she may have the honour of your
company to an assembly at her house next Friday?--and I will do
myself the pleasure to call for you if you will give me leave."

"Her ladyship does me much honour, but I am unfortunately
engaged," was my answer, with as much promptness as I could
command.


             A DINNER AT SIR JOSHUA'S, WITH BURKE AND GiBBON.

June.-Among the many I have been obliged to shirk this year, for
the sake of living almost solely with "Cecilia," none have had
less patience with my retirement than Miss Palmer, who, bitterly
believing I intended never to visit her again, has forborne
sending me any invitations: but, about three weeks ago, my father
had a note from Sir Joshua Reynolds, to ask him to dine at
Richmond, and meet the Bishop of St. Asaph,(148) and, therefore,
to make my peace, I scribbled a note to Miss Palmer to this
purpose,--

"After the many kind invitations I have been obliged to refuse,
will you, my dear Miss Palmer, should I offer to accompany my
father to-morrow, bid me remember the old proverb,

'Those who will not when they may,
When they will, they shall have nay?'--F.B."

This was graciously received; and the next morning Sir Joshua and
Miss Palmer called for my father and me, accompanied by Lord
Cork.  We had a mighty pleasant ride, Miss

229

Palmer and I " made up," though she scolded most violently about
my long absence, and attacked me about the book without mercy.
The book, in short, to my great consternation, I find is talked
of and expected all the town over.  My dear father himself, I do
verily believe, mentions it to everybody; he is fond of it to
enthusiasm, and does not foresee the danger of raising such
general expectation, which fills me with the horrors every time I
am tormented with the thought.

Sir Joshua's house is delightfully situated, almost at the top of
Richmond Hill.  We walked till near dinner-time upon the terrace,
and there met Mr. Richard Burke, the brother of the orator.  Miss
Palmer, stopping him, said,-

"Are you coming to dine with us?"

"No," he answered ; "I shall dine at the Star and Garter."

"How did you come--with Mrs. Burke, or alone?"

"Alone."

"What, on horseback?"

"Ay, sure!" cried he, laughing; "up and ride!  Now's the time."

And he made a fine flourish with his hand, and passed us.  He is
just made under-secretary at the Treasury.  He is a tall and
handsome man, and seems to have much dry drollery; but we saw no
more of him.

After our return to the house, and while Sir Joshua and I were
t`ete-`a-t`ete, Lord Cork and my father being still walking, and
Miss Palmer having, I suppose, some orders to give about the
dinner, the " knight of Plympton " was desiring my opinion of the
prospect from his window, and comparing it with Mr. Burke's, as
he told me after I had spoken it,--when the Bishop of St. Asaph
and his daughter, Miss Georgiana Shipley, were announced.   Sir
Joshua, to divert himself, in introducing me to the bishop, said,
"Miss Burney, my lord; otherwise 'Evelina.'"

The bishop is a well-looking man, and seemed grave, quiet, and
sensible.  I have heard much more of him, but nothing more
appeared.  Miss Georgiana, however, was showy enough for two.
She is a very tall and rather handsome girl; but the expression
of her face is, to me, disagreeable.  She has almost a constant
smile, not of softness, nor of insipidity, but of selfsufficiency
and internal satisfaction.  She is very much accomplished, and
her fame for painting and for scholarship, I know You are well
acquainted with.  I believe her to have very good parts and much
quickness , but she is so full of herself, so
230

earnest to obtain notice, and so happy in her confidence of
deserving it, that I have been not less charmed with any youn
lady I have seen for many a day.  I have met with her before, at
Mrs. Pepys', but never before was introduced to her.

Miss Palmer soon joined us ; and, in a short time, entered more
company,--three gentlemen and one lady; but there was no more
ceremony used of introductions.  The lady, I concluded was Mrs.
Burke, wife of the Mr. Burke, and was not mistaken.

One of the gentlemen I recollected to be young Burke, her son,
whom I once met at Sir Joshua's in town, and another of them I
knew for Mr. Gibbon: but the third I had never seen before.  I
had been told that the Burke was not expected yet I could
conclude this gentleman to be no other; he had just the air, the
manner, the appearance, I had prepared myself to look for in him,
and there was an evident, a striking superiority in his
demeanour, his eye, his motions, that announced him no common
man.

I could not get at Miss Palmer to satisfy my doubts, and we were
soon called downstairs to dinner.  Sir Joshua and the "unknown"
stopped to speak with one another upon the stairs; and, when they
followed us, Sir Joshua, in taking his place at the table, asked
me to sit next to him; I willingly complied.  "And then," he
added, "Mr. Burke shall sit on the other side of you."  "Oh, no,
indeed!" cried Miss Georgiana, who also had placed herself next
Sir Joshua; "I won't consent to that; Mr. Burke must sit next me;
I won't agree to part with him.  Pray, come and sit down quiet,
Mr. Burke."

Mr. Burke,-for him it was,-smiled and obeyed.

 "I only meant," said Sir Joshua, "to have made my peace with Mr.
Burke, by giving him that place, because he has been scolding me
for not introducing him to Miss Burney.  However, I must do it
now;--Mr. Burke!--Miss Burney!"

We both half rose, and Mr. Burke said,--

" I have been complaining to Sir Joshua that he left me wholly to
my own sagacity; however, it did not here deceive me."

" Oh dear, then," said Miss Georgiana, looking a little
consternated, "perhaps you won't thank me for calling you to this
place!"

Nothing was said, and so we all began dinner,-youngBurke making
himself my next neighbour.
231

Captain Phillips(149) knows Mr. Burke.  Has he or has he not told
you how delightful a creature he is?  If he has not, pray in my
name, abuse him without mercy; if he has, pray ask if he will
subscribe to my account of him, which herewith shall follow.

He is tall, his figure is noble, his air commanding, his address
graceful, his voice is clear, penetrating, sonorous, and
powerful, his language is copious, various, and eloquent; his
manners are attractive, his conversation is delightful.

What says Captain Phillips?  Have I chanced to see him in his
happiest hour? or is he all this in common?  Since we lost
Garrick I have seen nobody so enchanting.

I can give you, however, very little of what was said, for the
conversation was not suivie, Mr. Burke darting from subject to
subject with as much rapidity as entertainment.  Neither is the
charm of his discourse more in the matter than the manner: all,
therefore, that is related from him loses half its effect in not
being related by him.  Such little sketches as I can recollect
take however.

>From the window of the dining-parlour, Sir Joshua directed us to
look at a pretty white house which belonged to Lady Di Beauclerk.

"I am extremely glad," said Mr. Burke, "to see her at last so
well housed; poor woman! the bowl has long rolled in misery; I
rejoice that it has now found its balance.  I never, myself, so
much enjoyed the sight of happiness in another, as in that woman
when I first saw her after the death of her husband.  It was
really enlivening to behold her placed in that sweet house,
released from all her cares, a thousand pounds a-year at her own
disposal, and--her husband was dead!  Oh, it was pleasant, it was
delightful to see her enjoyment of her situation!"

"But, without considering the circumstances," said Mr. Gibbon,
"this may appear very strange, though, when they are fairly
stated, it is perfectly rational and unavoidable."

"Very true," said Mr. Burke, "if the circumstances are not
considered, Lady Di may seem highly reprehensible."

He then, addressing himself particularly to me, as the person
least likely to be acquainted with the character of Mr.
Beauclerk, drew it himself in strong and marked expressions,
describing the misery he gave his wife, his singular
ill-treatment

232

of her, and the necessary relief the death of such a man must
give.(150)

He then reminded Sir Joshua of a day in which they had dined at
Mr. Beauclerk's, soon after his marriage with Lord Bolingbroke's
divorced wife, in company with Goldsmith, and told a new story of
poor Goldsmith's eternal blundering.


                   A LETTER FROM BURKE To FANNY BURNEY.

Whitehall, July 29, 1782.

Madam,
I should feel exceedingly to blame if I could refuse to myself
the natural satisfaction, and to you the just but poor return, of
my best thanks for the very great instruction and entertainment I
have received from the new present you have bestowed on the
public.  There are few--I believe I may say fairly there are none
at all--that will not find themselves better informed concerning
human nature, and their stock of observation enriched, by reading
your "Cecilia."  They certainly will, letheir experience in life
and manners be what it may.  The arrogance of age must submit to
be taught by youth.  You have crowded into a few small volumes an
incredible variety of characters; most of them well planned, well
supported, and well contrasted with each other.  If there be any
fault in this respect, It is one in which you are in no great
danger of being imitated.  justly as your characters are drawn,
perhaps they are too numerous.  But I beg pardon; I fear it is
quite in vain to preach economy to those who are come young to
excessive and sudden opulence.

I might trespass on your delicacy if I should fill my letter to u
with what I fill my conversation to others.  I should be
troublesome to you alone If I should tell you all I feel and
think on the natural vein of humour, the tender pathetic, the
comprehensive and noble moral, and the sagacious observance, that
appear quite throughout that extraordinary performance.

233

In an age distinguished by producing extraordinary women,
I hardly dare to tell you where my opinion would place you
amongst them.  I respect your modesty, that will not endure the
commendations which your merit forces from everybody.

I have the honour to be, with great gratitude, respect, and
esteem, madam, your most obedient and most humble servant,
EDM. BURKE.

My best compliments and congratulations to Dr. Burney on the
great honour acquired to his family.


                    Miss BURNEY SITS FOR HER PORTRAIT.


Chesington, Monday, Aug. 12-I Set Out for this ever dear place,
accompanied by Edward,(151) who was sent for to paint Mr. Crisp
for my father.  I am sure you will rejoice in this.  I was a
little dumpish in the journey, for I seemed leaving my Susan
again.  However, I read a "Rambler" or two, and "composed the
harmony of my temper," as well as I could, for the sake of
Edward, who was not only faultless of this, but who is, I almost
think, faultless of all things.  I have thought him more amiable
and deserving, than ever, since this last sojourn under the same
roof with him; and, as it happened, I have owed to him almost all
the comfort I have this time met with here.

We came in a chaise, which was well loaded with canvasses,
.pencils, and painting materials ; for Mr. Crisp was to be three
times painted, and Mrs. Gast once.  My sweet father came down
Gascoign-lane to meet us, in very pood spirits and very good
health.  Next came dear daddy Crisp, looking vastly well, and, as
usual, high in glee and kindness at the meeting.  Then the
affectionate Kitty, the good Mrs. Hamilton, the gentle Miss
Young, and the enthusiastic Mrs. Gast.

The instant dinner was over, to my utter surprise and
consternation, I was called into the room appropriated for Edward
and his pictures, and informed I was to sit to him for Mr. Crisp!
Remonstrances were unavailing, and declarations of aversion to
the design were only ridiculed; both daddies interfered, and,
when I ran off, brought me back between them, and compelled my
obedience;--and from that time to this, nothing has gone forward
but picture-sitting.

234

                              GENERAL PAOLI.

(Fanny Burney to Mr. crisp.)
Oct. 15, 1782.

.....I am very sorry you could not come to Streatham at the time
Mrs. Thrale hoped to see you, for when shall we be likely to meet
there again?  You would have been much pleased, I am sure, by
meeting with General Paoli,' who spent the day there, and was
extremely communicative and agreeable.  I had seen him in large
companies, but was never made known to him before; nevertheless,
he conversed with me as if well acquainted not only with myself,
but my connexions,--inquiring of me when I had last seen Mrs.
Montagu? and calling Sir Joshua Reynolds, when he spoke of him,
my friend.  He is a very pleasing man, tall and genteel in his
person, remarkably well bred, and very mild and soft in his
manners.

I will try to give you a little specimen of his conversation,
because I know you love to hear particulars of all out-of-theway
persons.  His English is blundering but not unpretty.  Speaking
of his first acquaintance with Mr. Boswell,--

"He came," he said, "to my country, and he fetched me some letter
of recommending him; but I was of the belief he

235

might be an impostor, and I supposed, in my minte, he was an
espy; for I look away from him, and in a moment I look to him
again, and I behold his tablets.  Oh! he was to the work of
writing down all I say!  Indeed I was angry.  But soon I discover
he was no impostor and no espy; and I only find I was myself the
monster he had come to discern.  Oh,-is a very good man!  I love
him indeed; so cheerful! so gay! so pleasant! but at the first,
oh! I was indeed angry."

After this he told us a story of an expectation he had of being
robbed, and of the protection he found from a very large dog that
he is very fond of.  "

I walk out," he said, "in the night; I go towards the field; I
behold a man--oh, ugly one!  I proceed--he follow; I go on--he
address me.  'You have one dog,' he says.  'Yes,' say I to him.
'Is a fierce dog?' he says; 'is he fiery?'  'Yes,' reply I, 'he
can bite.'  'I would not attack in the night,' says he, 'a house
to have such dog in it.'  Then I conclude he was a breaker" so I
turn to him---oh, very rough! not gentle--and I say, very fierce,
'He shall destroy you, if you are ten!'"

Afterwards, speaking of the Irish giant, who is now shown in
town, he said,-

"He is so large I am as a baby!  I look at him--oh! I find myself
so little as a child!  Indeed, my indignation it rises when I see
him hold up his hand so high.  I am as nothing; and I find myself
in the power of a man who fetches from me half a crown."

This language, which is all spoke very pompously by him, sounds
comical from himself, though I know not how it may read.

(136 Sir Philip Jennings Clerke.-ED,

(137) Mauritius Lowe, a natural son of Lord Southwell.  He sent a
large picture of the Deluge to the Royal Academy in 1783, and was
so distressed at its rejection, that Johnson compassionately
wrote to Sirjoshua Reynolds in his behalf, entreating that the
verdict might be re-considered.  His intercession was successful,
and the picture was admitted.  We know nothing of Mr. Lowe's
work.-ED.

(138) Afterwards Sir William PWeller Pepys.  See note (103),
ante, p. 148.-ED.

(139) "The moment he was gone, 'Now,' says Dr. Johnson, 'is Pepys
gone home hating me, who love him better than I did before.  He
spoke in defence of his dead friend; but though I hope I spoke
better, who spoke against him, yet all my eloquence will gain me
nothing but an honest man for my enemy!'" (Mrs. Piozzi's
"Anecdotes of Johnson.")-ED.

(140) The celebrated Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire, equally
famous for her personal attractions and her political enthusiasm
in the Whig interest.  Her canvassing, and, it is said, her
kisses, largely contributed to the return of Charles james Fox
for Westminster in the election of 1784.  She was the daughter of
John, first Earl Spencer ; was born 1757; married, 1774, to
William, fifth Duke of Devonshire; and died, 18o6.  Her portrait
was painted by both Reynolds and Gainsborough.

Mary Isabella, Duchess of Rutland, was the youngest daughter of
the Duke of Beaufort, and was married, in 1775, to Charles
Mariners, fourth Duke of Rutland.  She died, 1831.-ED.

(141) Susan and Sophy were younger daughters of Mrs. Thrale-ED.

(142) The manager of Mr. Thrale's brewery.-ED.

(143) i.e. To Streatham: Fanny had been home in the interval.-ED.

(144) Of Bath Easton: husband of the lady of the "Vase."  See
note (123), ante, P. 174.-ED.

(145) Captain Molesworth Phillips, who had recently married Susan
Burney.-ED.

(146) Gasparo Pacchierotti, a celebrated Italian singer, and a
very intimate friend of the Burney family.-ED.

(147) "Variety," a comedy, was produced at Drury Lane, Feb. 25,
1782, and ran nine nights.  Genest calls it a dull play, with
little or no plot.  The author is unknown.-ED.

(148) Dr. Jonathan Shipley.-ED.

(149) The husband of Fanny Burney's sister, Susan.-ED.

(150) Poor Lady Di was throughout unfortunate in her marriages.
Her first husband, Lord Bolingbroke, to whom she was married in
1757, brutally used her, and drove her to seek elsewhere the
affection which he failed to bestow.  She was divorced from him
in 1768, and married, immediately afterwards, to Topham
Beauclerk, who, in his turn, ill-treated her.  Mr. Beauclerk died
in March, 1780.  He was greatly esteemed by Johnson, but his good
qualities appear to have been rather of the head than of the
heart.-ED.

(151) Her cousin Edward Burney, the painter.  A reproduction of
his portrait of Fanny forms the frontispiece to the present
volume.-ED.

(152) Pasquale Paoli, the famous Corsican general and patriot.
He maintained the independence of his country against the Genoese
for nearly ten years.  in 1769, upon the submission of Corsica to
France, to which the Genoese had ceded it, Paoli settled in
England, where he enjoyed a pension of 1200 pounds a year from
the English Government.  More details respecting this delightful
interview between Fanny and the General are given in the "Memoirs
of Dr. Burney" (vol. ii. p. 255), from which we select the
following extracts:--

"He is a very pleasing man; tall and genteel in his person,
remarkably attentive, obliging, and polite; and as soft and mild
in his speech, as if he came from feeding sheep in Corsica, like
a shepherd; rather than as if he had left the warlike field where
he had led his armies to battle.

"When Mrs. Thrale named me, he started back, though smilingly,
and said; 'I am very glad enough to see you in the face, Miss
Evelina, which I have wished for long enough.  O charming book!
I give it you my word I have read it often enough.  It is my
favourite studioso for apprehending the English language; which
is difficult often.  I pray you, Miss Evelina, write some more
little volumes of the quickest.'

"I disclaimed the name, and was walking away; but he followed me
with an apology.  'I pray your pardon, Mademoiselle.  My ideas
got in a blunder often.  It is Miss Borni what name I meant to
accentuate, I pray your pardon, Miss Evelina.'"-ED.




236
                                 SECTION 5
                                (1782-3-4-)

                "CECILIA": A PAEAN OF PRAISE: LAMENTATIONS.

[" This is the last visit remembered, or, at least, narrated, of
Streatham."  With these words Madame D'Arblay concludes the
account given in the "Memoirs of Dr. Burney," of her meeting with
General Paoli.  In the autumn Of 1782 Mrs. Thrale went, with her
daughters and Dr. Johnson, to Brighthelmstone, where Fanny joined
them.  On their return to London, November 20, the Thrales
settled for the winter in Argyle-street, and Fanny repaired to
her father's residence in St. Martin's-street.  She saw much of
Mrs. Thrale during the winter, but in the following April that
lady quitted London for Bath, where she resided until her
marriage with Signor Piozzi in the summer of 1784.  She
maintained an affectionate correspondence with Fanny until after
the marriage, but from the date of their parting in London, they
saw no more of each other, except for one brief interval in May,
1784, for several years.

We must here give an account, as concise as possible, of the
transaction which was so bitterly resented by the friends of Mrs.
Thrale, but in which her conduct seems to us, taking all the
circumstances fairly into consideration, to have been less
deserving of condemnation than their uncharitableness.  She had
first seen Piozzi, an Italian singer, at a party at Dr. Burney's
in 1777, and her behaviour to him on that occasion had certainly
afforded no premonition of her subsequent infatuation.  Piozzi,
who was nearly of the same age as herself, was, as Miss Seward
describes him, "a handsome man, with gentle, pleasing, unaffected
manners, and with very eminent skill in his profession."  He was
requested by Dr. Burney to sing; rather unfortunately, it would
appear, for the company, which included Johnson and the
Grevilles, was by no means composed of musical enthusiasts, and
Mrs. Thrale, in particular, "knew not a flat from a sharp, nor a
crotchet from a quaver."  However, he complied; and Mrs. Thrale,
after sitting awhile in silence, finding the proceed-

237

ings dull, was seized with a desire to enliven them.  "In a fit
of utter recklessness, she suddenly, but softly, arose, and
stealing on tiptoe behind Signor Piozzi, who was accompanying
himself on the pianoforte to an animated aria parlante, with his
back to the company and his face to the wall, she ludicrously
began imitating him by squaring her elbows, elevating them with
ecstatic shrugs of the shoulders, and casting up her eyes, while
languishingly reclining her head; as if she were not less
enthusiastically, though somewhat more suddenly, struck with the
transports of harmony than himself.

"But the amusement which such an unlooked-for exhibition -caused
to the party, was momentary; for Dr. Burney, shocked lest the
poor signor should observe, and be hurt by this mimicry, glided
gently round to Mrs. Thrale, and, with something between
pleasantry and severity, whispered to her, 'Because, madam, you
have no ear yourself for music, will you destroy the attention of
all who, in that one point, are otherwise gifted?'"(153)

This deserved rebuke the lively lady took in perfectly good part,
and the incident passed without further notice.  She does not
appear to have met with Piozzi again, Until, in July, 1780, she
Pppicked him up " at Brighton.  She now finds him " amazingly
like her father," and insists that he shall teach Hester music.
>From this point the fever gradually increased.  In August, 1781,
little more than four months after her husband's death, Piozzi
has become "a prodigious favourite" with her; she has even
developed a taste for his music, which "fills the mind with
emotions one would not be without, though inconvenient enough
sometimes."  In the spring Of 1783, soon after her arrival at
Bath, they were formally engaged, but the urgent remonstrances of
her friends and family caused the engagement to be broken off,
and Piozzi went to Italy.  Her infatuation, however, was too
strong to be overcome.  Under the struggle, long protracted, her
health gave way, and at length, by the advice of her doctor, and
with the sullen consent of Miss Thrale, Piozzi was summoned to
Bath.  He, too, had been faithful, and he lost no time in obeying
the summons.  They were married, according to the Roman Catholic
rites, in London, and again, on the 25th of July, 1784, in a
Protestant church at Bath, her three elder daughters, of whom the
eldest, Hester ("Queeny"), was not yet twenty years of age,
having quitted Bath before his arrival.

Mrs. Piozzi left England with her husband and her youngest
daughter, Cecilia, and lived for some years in Italy, where she
compiled her well known "Anecdotes of Dr. Johnson."  Her wedded
life with Piozzi was certainly happy, and he gave her no reason
to repent the step she had taken.  The indignation of her former
friends, especially of Dr. Johnson, was carried to a length
which, the cause being considered, appears little short of
ridiculous.  Mrs. Thrale's second marriage may have been
ill-advised,

238

but it was neither criminal nor disgraceful.  Piozzi was
incontestably a respectable man and a constant lover ; but that
an Italian musician, who depended upon his talents for his
livelihood, should become the husband of the celebrated Mrs.
Thrale, and the stepfather of four young ladies of fashion, the
daughters of a brewer, and the heiresses to his large fortune,-
-there was the rub!  The dislike of Dr. Johnson and his friends
to the marriage was, from a worldly point of view, justifiable
enough, but it argues ill for their generosity of mind that they
should have attached such overwhelming importance to such petty
considerations.  Mrs. Piozzi has been blamed for deserting her
three elder daughters; but the fact is, it was her daughters who
deserted her, and refused to recognise her husband.  Her only
fault, if fault it can be called, was in declining to sacrifice
the whole happiness of her life to the supposed requirements of
their rank in society.  In condemning her friends for their
severity and illiberality, we must, however, make an exception in
favour of Fanny.  She, like the rest, had been averse to the
match, but her cordiality to Mrs. Piozzi remained undiminished;
and when, soon after the marriage, their correspondence was
discontinued, to be renewed only after the lapse of many years,
it was not Fanny, but Mrs. Piozzi, who broke it off, instigated,
Fanny always believed, by her husband.

Her separation from Mrs. Thrale was not the only event which
brought sorrow to Fanny during the years to which the following
section of the Diary relates.  Mr. Crisp, the person dearest to
her of all human beings outside her own family, died at
Chesington, of an attack of his old malady, the gout, on the 24th
of April, 1783, aged seventy-five.  Fanny and Susan were with him
at the last, and Fanny's love was rewarded, her anguish soothed
yet deepened, when, almost with his dying breath, her Daddy Crisp
called her "the dearest thing to him on earth."

Towards the end of 1784 another heavy blow fell upon Fanny, in
the loss of Dr. Johnson, who died on the 13th of December.  The
touching references in the Diary to his last illness form an
interesting supplement to Boswell's narrative.

But the picture of Fanny's life during these years is not without
bright touches.  As such we may reckon the great, and deserved
success of her novel, "Cecilia"; the commencement of her
acquaintance with two ladies who were hereafter to be numbered
among her dearest friends--the venerable Mrs. Delany, and Mrs.
Locke, of Norbury Park, Surrey; and last, not least, the growing
intimacy between Edmund Burke and the family of Dr. Burney.-ED.]

239

               AT BRIGHTON AGAIN, THE "FAmous Miss BURNEY."

Brighthelmstone, Oct. 26.

My journey was incidentless - but the Moment I came into
Brighthelmstone I was met by Mrs. Thrale, who had most eagerly
been waiting for me a long while, and therefore I dismounted, and
walked home with her.  It would be very superfluous to tell you
how she received me, for you cannot but know, from her impatient
letters, what I had reason to expect of kindness and welcome.

Dr. Johnson received me, too, with his usual goodness, and with a
salute so loud, that the two young beaus, Cotton and Swinerton,
have never done laughing about it.

Mrs. Thrale spent two or three hours in my room, talking over all
her affairs, and then we wished each other bon repos, and--
retired.  Grandissima conclusion!

Oh, but let me not forget that a fine note came from Mr. Pepys,
who is here with his family, saying he was pressd`e de vivre, and
entreating to see Mrs. and Miss T., Dr. Johnson, and Cecilia at
his house the next day.  I hate mightily this method of naming me
from my heroines, of whose honour I think I am more jealous than
of my own.

Oct. 27-The Pepyses came to visit me in form, but I was dressing;
in the evening, however, Mrs. and Miss T. took me to them.  Dr.
Johnson would not go ; he told me it was my day, and I should be
crowned, for Mr. Pepys was wild about "Cecilia."  We found at Mr.
Pepys' nobody but his wife, his brother, Dr. Pepys,(154) and Dr.
Pepys' lady, Countess of Rothes.  Mr. Pepys received me with such
distinction, that it was very evident how much the book, with the
most flattering opinion of it, was in his head; however, he
behaved very prettily, and only mentioned it by allusions; most
particularly upon the character of Meadows, which he took various
opportunities of pronouncing to be the "best hit possible" upon
the present race of fine gentlemen.  We did not stay with them
long, but called upon Miss Benson, and proceeded to the rooms.
Mr. Pepys was very

240

unwilling to part with us, and wanted to frighten me from going,
by saying,--

"And has Miss Burney the courage to venture to the Rooms?  I
wonder she dares!"


I did not seem to understand him, though to mistake him was
impossible.  However, I thought of him again when I was at the
rooms, for most violent was the staring and whispering as I
passed and repassed ! insomuch that I shall by no means be in any
haste to go again to them.  Susan and Sophy Thrale, who were with
their aunt, Mrs. Scott, told Queeny upon our return that they
heard nothing said, whichever way they turned, but "That's she!"
"That's the famous Miss Burney!"  I shall certainly escape going
any more, if it is in my power.

Monday, Od. 28.--Mr. Pepys had but just left me, when Mrs. Thrale
sent Susan with a particular request to see me in her dressing-
room, where I found her with a milliner.

"Oh, Miss Burney," she cried, "I could not help promising Mrs.
Cockran that she should have a sight of you--she has begged it so
hard."

You may believe I stared; and the woman, whose eyes almost looked
ready to eat me, eagerly came up to me, exclaiming,-

"Oh, ma'am, you don't know what a favour this is to see you!  I
have longed for it so long!  It is quite a comfort to me, indeed.
Oh, ma'am, how clever you must be!  All the ladies I deal with
are quite distracted about 'Cecilia,'--and I got it myself.  Oh,
ma'am, how sensible you must be!  It does my heart good to see
you."


                          DR. JOHNSON DOGMATISES.

Oct. 29.-We had a large party at home in the evening.  I was
presently engaged by Mr. Pepys, and he was joined by Mr. Coxe,
and he by Miss Benson.  Mr. Pepys led the conversation, and it
was all upon criticism and poetry.  The little set was broken up
by my retreat, and Mr. Pepys joined Dr. Johnson, with whom he
entered into an argument upon some lines of Gray, and upon Pope's
definition of wit, in which he was so roughly confuted, and so
severely ridiculed, that he was hurt and piqued beyond all power
of disguise, and, in the midst of the discourse, suddenly turned
from him, and, wishing Mrs. Thrale good night, very abruptly
withdrew.
241

Dr. Johnson was certainly right with respect to the argument and
to reason ; but his opposition was so warm, and his wit so
satirical and exulting, that I was really quite grieved to see
how unamiable he appeared, and how greatly he made himself
dreaded by all, and by many abhorred.  What pity that he will not
curb the vehemence of his love of victory and superiority.

The sum of the dispute was this.  Wit being talked of, Mr. Pepys
repeated,--

"True wit is Nature to advantage dress'd,
What oft was thought, but ne'er so well express'd."

"That, sir," cried Dr. Johnson, "is a definition both false and
foolish.  Let wit be dressed how it will, it will equally be wit,
and neither the more nor the less for any advantage dress can
give it."

Mr. P.-But, sir, may not wit be so ill expressed, and so obscure,
by a bad speaker, as to be lost?

Dr. J.-The fault, then, sir, must be with the hearer.  If a man
cannot distinguish wit from words, he little deserves to hear it.

Mr. P.-But, sir, what Pope means--

Dr. J.-Sir, what Pope means, if he means what he says, is both
false and foolish.  In the first place, 'what oft was thought,'
is all the worse for being often thought, because to be wit, it
ought to be newly thought.

Mr. P.-But, sir, 'tis the expression makes it new.

Dr. J.-How can the expression make it new?  It may make it clear,
or may make it elegant - but how new?  You are confounding words
with things.

Mr. P.-But, sir, if one man says a thing very ill, may not
another man say it so much better that--

 Dr. J.-That other man, sir, deserves but small praise for the
amendment; he is but the tailor to the first man's thoughts.

Mr. P.-True, sir, he may be but the tailor; but then the
difference is as great as between a man in a gold lace suit and a
man in a blanket.

Dr. J.-just so, sir, I thank you for that; the difference is
precisely such, since it consists neither in the gold lace suit
nor the blanket, but in the man by whom they are worn.

This was the summary; the various contemptuous sarcasms
intermixed would fill, and very unpleasantly, a quire.
242

                        A CUNNING RUNAWAY HEIRESS.

Oct. 30.-Lady Warren is immensely tall, and extremely beautiful;
she is now but just nineteen, though she has been married two or
three years.  She is giddy, gay, chatty, goodhumoured, and a
little affected; she hazards all that occurs to her, seems to
think the world at her feet, and is so young and gay and handsome
that she is not much mistaken.  She is, in short, an inferior
Lady Honoria Pemberton;(155) somewhat beneath her in parts and
understanding, but strongly in that class of character.  I had no
conversation with her myself; but her voice is loud and deep, and
all she said was for the whole room.

Marriages being talked of, "I'll tell you," cried she, "a story;
that is, it sha'n't be a story, but a fact.  A lady of my
acquaintance, who had 650,000 fortune, ran away to Scotland with
a gentleman she liked vastly; so she was a little doubtful of
him, and had a mind to try him: so when they stopped to dine, and
change horses, and all that, she said, 'Now, as I have a great
regard for you, I dare say you have for me - so I will tell you a
secret: I have got no fortune at all, in reality, but only 5,000
pounds; for all the rest is a mere pretence : but if you like me
for myself, and not for my fortune, you won't mind that.'  So the
gentleman said, 'Oh, I don't regard it at all, and you are the
same charming angel that ever you was,' and all those sort of
things that people say to one, and then went out to see about the
chaise.  So he did not come back; but when dinner was ready, the
lady said 'Pray, where is he?'  'Lor, ma'am,' said they, 'why,
that gentleman has been gone ever so long!'  So she came back by
herself; and now she's married to somebody else, and has her
50,000 pounds fortune all safe."


                            DR. JOHNSON A BORE.

Saturday, November 2.-We went to Lady Shelley's. Dr. Johnson,
again, excepted in the invitation.  He is almost constantly
omitted, either from too much respect or too much fear.  I am
sorry for it, as he hates being alone, and as, though he scolds
the others, he is well enough satisfied himself, and having given
vent to all his own occasional anger or ill-humour, he is ready
to begin again, and is never aware that those who have so been
"downed" by him, never can much covet So

243

triumphant a visitor.  In contests of wit, the victor is as ill
off in future consequences as the vanquished in present ridicule.

Monday, November 4.-This was a grand and busy day.  Mr. Swinerton
has been some time arranging a meeting for all our house, with
Lady De Ferrars, whom you may remember as Charlotte Ellerker, and
her lord and sisters: and this morning it took place, by mutual
appointment, at his lodgings, where we met to breakfast.  Dr.
Johnson, who already knew Lord De Ferrars, and Mrs. and Miss
Thrale, and myself, arrived first and then came the Lord and
Lady, and Miss Ellerker and her youngest sister, Harriet.  Lord
De Ferrars is very ugly, but extremely well-bred, gentle,
unassuming, sensible, and pleasing.  His lady is much improved
since we knew her in former days, and seems good-humoured,
lively, and rather agreeable.  Miss Ellerker is nothing altered.

I happened to be standing by Dr. Johnson when all the ladies came
in; but, as I dread him before strangers, from the staring
attention he attracts both for himself and all with whom he
talks, I endeavoured to change my ground.  However, he kept
prating a sort of comical nonsense that detained me some minutes
whether I would or not; but when we were all taking places at the
breakfast-table I made another effort to escape.  It proved vain;
he drew his chair next to mine, and went rattling on in a
humorous sort of comparison he was drawing of himself to me,--not
one word of which could I enjoy, or can I remember, from the
hurry I was in to get out of his way.  In short, I felt so
awkward from being thus marked out, that I was reduced to whisper
a request to Mr. Swinerton to put a chair between us, for which I
presently made a space: for I have often known him stop all
conversation with me, when he has ceased to have me for his next
neighbour.  Mr. Swinerton who is an extremely good-natured young
man, and so intimate here that 1 make no scruple with him,
instantly complied, and placed himself between us.

But no sooner was this done, than Dr. Johnson, half seriously,
and very loudly, took him to task.

"'How now, sir! what do you mean by this?  Would you
separate me from Miss Burney?

Mr. Swinerton, a little startled, began some apologies, and Mrs.
Thrale winked at him to give up the place; but he was willing to
oblige me, though he grew more and more frightened every minute,
and coloured violently as the Doctor continued Is remonstrance,
which he did with rather unmerciful raillery,
244

upon his taking advantage of being in his own house to thus
supplant him, and cram; but when he had borne it for about ten
minutes, his face became so hot with the fear of hearing
something worse, that he ran from the field, and took a chair
between Lady De Ferrars and Mrs. Thrale.

I think I shall take warning by this failure, to trust only to my
own expedients for avoiding his public notice in future.  However
it stopped here; for Lord De Ferrars came in, and took the
disputed place without knowing of the contest, and all was quiet.


                Miss BURNEY WILL NOT BE PERSUADED To DANCE.

..... Late as it was, it was settled we should go to the ball,
the last for the season being this night.  My own objections
about going not being strong enough to combat the ado my
mentioning them would have occasioned, I joined in the party,
without demur.

The ball was half over, and all the company seated to tea.  Mr.
Wade(156) came to receive us all, as usual, and we had a table
procured for us, and went to tea ourselves, for something to do.
When this repast was over, the company returned to their
recreation.  The room was very thin, and almost half the ladies
danced with one another, though there were men enough present, I
believe, had they chosen such exertion; but the Meadowses at
balls are in crowds.  Some of the ladies were in riding habits,
and they made admirable men.  'Tis tonnish to be so much
undressed at the last ball.

None of our usual friends, the Shelleys, Hatsels, Dickens, or
Pepys, were here, and we, therefore, made no party - but Mrs.
Thrale and I stood at the top of the room to look on the dancing,
and as we were thus disengaged, she was seized with a violent
desire to make one among them, and I felt myself an equal
inclination.  She proposed, as so many women danced together,
that we two should, and nothing should I have liked so well; but
I begged her to give up the scheme, as that would have occasioned
more fuss and observation than our dancing with all the men that
ever were born.

While we were debating this matter, a gentleman suddenly said to
me,-"Did you walk far this morning, Miss Burney?"  And, looking
at him, I saw Mr. Metcalf,(157) whose graciousness

245

rather surprised me, for he only made to Mrs. Thrale a cold and
distant bow, and it seems he declares, aloud and around, his
aversion to literary ladies.  That he can endure, and even seek
me is, I presume, only from the general perverseness of mankind,
because he sees I have always turned from him; not, however, from
disliking him, for he is a shrewd, sensible, keen, and very
clever man; but merely from a dryness on his own side that has
excited retaliation.

"Yes," I answered, "we walked a good way."

"Dr. Johnson," said he, "told me in the morning you were no
walker; but I informed him then I had had the pleasure of seeing
you upon the Newmarket Hill."

"Oh, he does not know," cried I, "whether I am a walker or not-
-he does not see me walk, because he never walks himself." . . .

Here he was called away by some gentleman, but presently came to
me again.

"Miss Burney," he said, "shall you dance?""

"No, sir, not to-night."

"A gentleman," he added, "has desired me to speak to you for
him."

Now, Susanna, for the grand moment!--the height--the zenith of my
glory in the ton meridian!  I again said I did not mean to dance,
and to silence all objection, he expressively said,--

"Tis Captain Kaye(158) who sends me."

Is not this magnificent?  Pray congratulate me!

 I was really very much surprised, but repeated my refusal, with
all customary civilities to soften it.  He was leaving me with
this answer, when this most flashy young officer, choosing to
trust his cause to himself, came forward, and desired to be
introduced to me.  Mr. Metcalf performed that ceremony, and he
then, with as much respect and deference as if soliciting a
countess, said,--

"May I flatter myself you will do me the honour of dancing With
me?"

I thanked him, and said the same thing over again.  He

246

looked much disappointed, and very unwilling to give up his plan.

"If you have not," he said, "any particular dislike to dancing,
it will be doing, not only me, but the Whole room much honour, if
you will make one in a set."

"You do me much honour, sir," I answered, "but I must beg you to
excuse me."

"I hope not," cried he, "I hope out of charity you will dance, as
it is the last ball, and the company is so thin."

"Oh, it will do Very Well without me; Mr. Wade himself says he
dies to-night a very respectable death."

"And will you not have the goodness to help it on a little in its
last stage ? "

"No," said I, laughing; "why should we wish it to be kept
lingering?"

"Lingering!" repeated he, looking round at the dancers, "no,
surely it is not quite so desperate; and if you will but join in,
you will give it new existence."

I was a little thrown off my guard at this unexpected
earnestness, so different to the ton of the day, and I began
hardly to know What to answer, my real objection being such as I
could by no means publish, though his urgency and his politeness
joined would have made me give up any other.

"This is a very quiet dance," he continued.  "there is nothing
fatiguing in it."

"You are very good," said I, "but I cannot really dance
to-night."

I was sorry to seem so obstinate, but he was just the man to make
every body inquire whom he danced with; and any one Who wished
for general attention could do no better than to be his partner.
The ever-mischievous Mrs. Thrale, calling to Mr. Selwyn, who
stood by us, said,-

"Why, here's a man in love !-quite, downright in love with Miss
Burney, if ever I saw one!"

"He is quite mortified, at least," he answered; "I never saw a
man look more mortified."

"Well, he did not deserve it," said she; "he knew how to beg, and
he ought not to have been so served."

I begged her to be silent, for Mr. Metcalf returned to me.  "

"Were you too much tired," he said, "with your walk this morning,
to try at a dance?"

I excused myself as well as I could, and we presently went
247

into the card-room to vary the scene.  When we returned to the
ball-room I was very glad to see my new captain had just taken
out Lady Anne Lindsay, who is here with Lady Margaret Fordyce,
and who dances remarkably well, and was every way a more suitable
partner for him.  He was to leave the town, with his regiment,
the next day.

Tuesday.-Mrs. Thrale took me out to walk with her.  We met Lady
De Ferrars and Miss Ellerker in our ramble, and the very moment
the ball was mentioned, this dear and queer creature called
out,--

"Ay, there was a sad ado, ladies dancing with ladies, and
all sorts of odd things; and that handsome and fine Mr. Kaye
broke his heart almost to dance with Miss Burney; but she refused
him, and so, in despair, he took out Lady Anne Lindsay."


                    DR. JOHNSON HELD IN GENERAL DREAD.

Thursday.-Mr. Metcalf called upon Dr. Johnson, and took him out
for an airing.  Mr. Hamilton is gone, and Mr. Metcalf is now the
only person out of this house that voluntarily communicates with
the doctor.  He has been in a terrible severe bumour of late, and
has really frightened all the people, till they almost ran from
him.  To me only I think he is now kind, for Mrs. Thrale fares
worse than anybody.  'Tis very strange and very melancholy that
he will not a little more accommodate his manners and language to
those of other people.  He likes Mr. Metcalf, however, and so do
I, for he is very clever and entertaining when he pleases.

Poor Dr. Delap confessed to us, that the reason he now came so
seldom, though he formerly almost lived with us when at this
place, was his being too unwell to cope with Dr. Johnson.  And
the other day Mr. Selwyn having refused an invitation from Mr.
Hamilton to meet the doctor, because he preferred being here upon
a day when he was out, suddenly rose at the time he was expected
to return, and said he must run away, "for fear the doctor should
call him to account."



          SHORT, FAT, HANDSOME MISS MONCKTON: DUCAL INDIFFERENCE.

Sunday, November 10, brings in a new person.  Th
e Honourable Miss Monckton,(159) who is here with her mother, the

248

Dowager Lady Galway, has sent various messages of her earnest
desire to be acquainted with Mrs. Thrale and your humble servant
to command.  Dr. Johnson 'she already knew,, for she is one of
those who stand foremost in collecting all extraordinary or
curious people to her London conversaziones, which, like those of
Mrs. Vesey, mix the rank and file literature, and exclude all
beside.  Well--after divers intimations Of this sort, it was at
last settled that Lady De Ferrars should bring her here this
morning.

In the evening came Lady De Ferrars, Miss Monckton, and Miss
Ellerker.  Miss Monckton is between thirty and forty very short,
very fat, but handsome ; splendidly and fantastically dressed,
rouged not unbecomingly, yet evidently and palpably desirous of
gaining notice and admiration.  She has an easy levity in her
air, manner, voice, and discourse, that speak all within to be
comfortable; and her rage of seeing anything curious may be
satisfied, if she pleases, by looking in a mirror.

I can give you no account of the conversation, as it was broken,
and not entertaining.  Miss Monckton went early, having another
engagement, but the other ladies stayed very late.  She told us,
however, one story extremely well worth recarding.  The Duke of
Devonshire was standing near a very fine glass lustre in a corner
of a room, at an assembly, and in a house of people who, Miss
Monckton said, were by no means in a style of life to hold
expense as immaterial ; and, by carelessly lolling back, he threw
the lustre down and it was broke.  He shewed not, however, the
smallest concern or confusion at the accident, but coolly said,
"I wonder how I did that!"  He then removed to the opposite
corner, and to shew, I suppose, he had forgotten what he had
done, leaned his head in the same manner, and down came the
opposite lustre ! He looked at it very calmly, and, with a
philosophical dryness, merely said, "This is singular enough!"
and walked to another part of the room, without either distress
or apology.



              MISS MONCKTON's ASSEMBLY: SACQUES AND RUFFLES.

December 8.-Now for Miss Monckton's assembly.

I had begged Mrs. Thrale to call for me,(160) that I might have
her countenance and assistance upon my entrance.  Miss

249

Thrale came also.  Every thing was in a new style.  We got out of
the coach into a hall full of servants, not one of which inquired
our names, or took any notice of us.  We proceeded, and went
upstairs,  and, when we arrived at a door, stopped and looked
behind us.  No servant had followed or preceded us.  We
deliberated what was to be done.  To announce ourselves was
rather awkward, neither could we be sure we were going into the
right apartment.  I proposed going up higher, till we met with
somebody; Miss Thrale thought we should go down and call some of
the servants; but Mrs. Thrale, after a ridiculous consultation,
determined to try her fortune by opening the door.  This being
done, we entered a room full of tea-things, and one maid-servant.

"Well," cried Mrs. Thrale, laughing, "what is to be done now? I
suppose we are come so early that nothing is ready."

The maid stared, but said,--"There's company in the next room."

Then we considered again how to make ourselves known; and then
Mrs. Thrale again resolved to take courage and enter.  She
therefore opened another door, and went into another apartment.
I held back, but looked after, and observing that she made no
curtsey, concluded she was gone into some wrong place.  Miss
Thrale followed, and after her went little I, wondering who was
to receive, or what was to become of us.

Miss Monckton lives with her mother, the old Dowager Lady Galway,
in a noble house in Charles-street, Berkeleysquare, The room was
large and magnificent.  There was not much company, for we were
very early.  Lady Galway sat at the side of the fire, and
received nobody.  She seems very old, and was dressed with a
little round white cap, and not a single hair, no cushlori, roll,
nor any thing else but the little round cap, which was flat upon
her forehead.  Such part of the company as already knew her made
their compliments to her where she sat, and the rest were never
taken up to her, but belonged wholly to Miss Monckton.

Miss Monckton's own manner of receiving her guests was scarce
more laborious ; for she kept her seat when they entered, and
only turned rOUnd her head to nod it, and say "How do you do?"
after which they found what accommodation they could for
themselves.

As soon, however, as she perceived Mrs. and Miss Thrale, which
was not till they had been some minutes in the room,
250
she arose to welcome them, contrary to her general Custom, and
merely because it was their first visit.  Our long train making
my entrance some time after theirs, gave me the advantage of
being immediately seen by her, and she advanced to me with
quickness, and very politely thanked me for coming, and said,--

"I fear you think me very rude for taking the liberty of sending
to you."

"No, indeed, you did me much honour," quoth I.

She then broke further into her general rules, by making way for
me to a good place, and seating me herself, and then taking a
chair next me, and beginning a little chat.  I really felt myself
much obliged to her for this seasonable attention, for I was
presently separated from Mrs. Thrale, and entirely surrounded by
strangers, all dressed superbly, and all looking saucily ; and as
nobody's names were spoken, I had no chance to discover any
acquaintances.  Mr. Metcalf, indeed, came and spoke to me the
instant I came in, and I should have been very happy to have had
him for my neighbour; but he was engaged in attending to Dr.
Johnson, who was standing near the fire, and environed with
listeners.

Some new people now coming in, and placing themselves in a
regular way, Miss Monckton exclaimed,--"My whole care is to
prevent a circle;" and hastily rising, she pulled about the
chairs, and planted the people in groups, with as dexterous a
disorder as you would desire to see.

The company in general were dressed with more brilliancy than at
any rout I ever was at, as most of them were going to the Duchess
of Cumberland's, and attired for that purpose.  just behind me
sat Mrs. Hampden, still very beautiful, but insufferably
affected.  Another lady, in full dress, and very pretty, came in
soon after, and got herself a chair just before me ; and then a
conversation began between her and Mrs. Hampden, of which I will
give you a specimen.

"How disagreeable these sacques are!  I am so incommoded with
these nasty ruffles!  I am going to Cumberland House--are you?"

"To be sure," said Mrs. Hampden, "what else, do you think, would
make me bear this weight of dress?  I can't bear a sacque."

"Why, I thought you said you should always wear them?"

"Oh, yes, but I have changed my mind since then--as many people
do."

251


"Well, I think it vastly disagreeable indeed," said the other,
"you Can't think how I am encumbered with these ruffles!"

" Oh I am quite oppressed with them," said Mrs. Hampden, "I can
hardly bear myself up."

" And I dined in this way!" cried the other; "only think--dining
in a sacque!"

"Oh," answered Mrs. Hampden, "it really puts me quite out of
spirits."

After this they found some subject less popular, and the lady
unknown leaned over me, without any ceremony, to whisper with
Mrs. Hampden.  I should have offered her my place if she had made
any apology, but as it was, I thought she might take her own way.
In the course of the evening, however, I had the pleasure to
observe a striking change in her manners; for as soon as she
picked up, I know not how, my name, she ceased her whispering,
looked at me with the civilest smiles, spoke to me two or three
times, and calling to a fine beau, said--

"Do pray sit this way, that you may screen Miss Burney as well as
me from that fire,"

I did not, however, sufficiently like her beginning, to accept
her challenge of talking, and only coldly answered by yes, no, or
a bow.


AT MISS MONCKTON'S: "CECILIA" EXTOLLED BY THE "OLD WITS," AND By
BURKE.

Then came in Sir Joshua Reynolds, and he soon drew a chair near
mine, and from that time I was never without some friend at my
elbow.

Have you seen," said he, "Mrs. Montagu lately?"

"No, not very lately."

"But within these few months?"

"No, not since last year."

"Oh, you must see her, then.  You ought to see and to hear her--
't will be worth your while.  Have you heard of the fine long
letter she has written?"

"Yes, but I have not met with it."

"I have."


"And who is it to?"

"The old Duchess of Portland.(161)  She desired Mrs. Mon-

252

tagu's opinion of 'Cecilia,' and she has written it at full
length.  I was in a party at her grace's, and heard of nothing
but you.  She is so delighted, and so sensibly, so rationally,
that I only wish you could have heard her.  And old Mrs. Delany
had been forced to begin it, though she had said she should never
read any more; however, when we met, she was reading it already
for the third time."

After this Mrs. Burke saw me, and with much civility and softness
of manner, came and talked with me, while her husband without
seeing me, went behind my chair to speak to Mrs Hampden.

Miss Monckton, returning to me, then said--

" Miss Burney, I had the pleasure yesterday of seeing Mrs.
Greville.(162)

I suppose she concluded I was very intimate with her.

"I have not seen her," said I, "many years."

"I know, however," cried she, looking surprised, "she is your
godmother."

"But she does not do her duty and answer for me, for I never see
her."

"Oh, you have answered very well for yourself! But I know by that
your name is Fanny."

She then tripped to somebody else, and Mr. Burke very quietly
came from Mrs. Hampden, and sat down in the vacant place at my
side.  I could then wait no longer, for I found he was more
near-sighted than myself; I, therefore, turned towards him and
bowed: he seemed quite amazed, and really made me ashamed,
however delighted, by the expressive civility and distinction
with which he instantly rose to return my bow, and stood the
whole time he was making his compliments upon seeing me, and
calling himself the blindest of men for not finding me out
sooner.  And Mrs. Burke, who was seated near me, said, loud
enough for me to hear her--

"See, see what a flirtation Mr. Burke is beginning with Miss
Burney and before my face too!"

These ceremonies over, he sat down by me, and began a
conversation which you, my dearest Susy, would be glad to hear,
for my sake, word for word; but which I really could not listen
to with sufficient ease, from shame at his warm eulogiums,
253

to remember With any accuracy.  The geneial substance, however,
take as I recollect it.

After many most eloquent compliments upon the book, too delicate
either to shock or sicken the nicest ear, he very empbatically
congratulated me upon its most universal success, said, "he was
now too late to speak of it, since he could only echo the voice
of the whole nation" and added, with a laugh, "I had hoped to
have made some merit of my enthusiasm; but the moment I went
about to hear what others say, I found myself merely one in a
multitude."

He then told me that, notwithstanding his admiration, he was the
man who had dared to find some faults with so favourite and
fashionable a work.  I entreated him to tell me what they were,
and assured him nothing would make me so happy as to correct them
under his direction.  He then enumerated them: and I will tell
you what they are, that you may not conclude I write nothing but
the fairer part of my adventures, which I really always relate
very honestly, though so fair they are at this time, that it
hardly seems possible they should not be dressed up.

The masquerade he thought too long, and that something might be
spared from Harrel's grand assembly; he did not like Morrice's
part of the pantheon; and he wished the conclusion either more
happy or more miserable "for in a work of imagination," said he,
"there is no medium."

I was not easy enough to answer him, or I have much, though
perhaps not good for much, to say in defence of following life
and nature as much in the conclusion as in the progress of a
tale; and when is life and nature completely happy or miserable?

Looking very archly at me, and around him, he said,--

"Are you sitting here for characters?  Nothing, by the way,
struck me more in reading your book than the admirable skill with
which your ingenious characters make themselves known by their
own words."

He then went on to tell me that I had done the most wonderful of
wonders in pleasing the old wits, particularly the Duchess of
Portland and Mrs. Delany, who resisted reading the book till they
were teased into it, and, since they began, could do nothing else
- and he failed not to point out, with his utmost eloquence, the
difficulty Of giving satisfaction to those who piqued themselves
upon being past receiving it.
254

"But," said he, "I have one other fault to find, and a more
material one than any I have mentioned."

"I am the more obliged to you.  What is it?"

"The disposal of this book.  I have much advice to
    offer to you upon that subject.  Why did not you send for
                 your own friend out of the city? he would have
taken care you should not part with it so much below par."

He meant Mr. Briggs.(163)

Sir Joshua Reynolds now joined us.

" Are you telling her," said he, "of our conversation with the
old wits?  I am glad you hear it from Mr. Burke, Miss Burney, for
he can tell it so much better than I can, and remember their very
words."

" Nothing else would they talk of for three whole hours," said
he, "and we were there at the third reading of the bill."

"I believe I was in good hands," said I, "if they talked of it to
you?"

"Why, yes," answered Sir Joshua, laughing, "we joined in from
time to time.  Gibbon says he read the whole five volumes in a
day."

"'Tis impossible," cried Mr. Burke, "it cost me three days and
you know I never parted with it from the time I first opened it."


                           A WRITER OF ROMANCES.

Soon after the parties changed again and young Mr. Burke(164)
came and sat by me.  He is a very civil and obliging, and a
sensible and agreeable young man.  Old Lady Galway trotted from
her corner, in        the middle of the evening, and leaning her
hands upon the         backs of two chairs, put her little round
head through two fine        high dressed ladies on purpose to
peep at me, and then trotted        back to her place! Ha, ha!

Miss Monckton now came to us again, and I congratulated

255

her upon her power in making Dr. Johnson sit in a group upon
which she immediately said to him,--

"Sir, Miss Burney says you like best to sit in a circle."


"Does she?" said he, laughing; "Ay, never mind what she says.
Don't you know she is a writer of romances?"

"Yes, that I do, indeed," said Miss Monckton, and every one
joined in a laugh that put me horribly out of countenance.

"She may write romances and speak truth," said my dear Sir
Joshua, who, as well as young Burke, and Mr. Metcalf, and two
strangers, joined now in our little party.

"But, indeed, Dr. Johnson," said Miss Monckton, "you must see
Mrs. Siddons.  Won't you see her in some fine part?"

"Why, if I must, madam, I've no choice."

"She says, sir, she shall be very much afraid of you."

"Madam, that cannot be true."

"Not true," cried Miss Monckton, staring, "yes it is."

"It cannot be, madam."

"But she said so to me ; I heard her say it myself."

"Madam, it is not possible! remember, therefore, in future, that
even fiction should be supported by probability."

Miss Monckton looked all amazement, but insisted upon the -truth
of what she had said.

"I do not believe, madam," said he, warmly, "she knows my name."

" "Oh, that is rating her too low," said a gentleman stranger.

"By not knowing my name," continued he, "I do not mean so
literally; but that, when she sees it abused in a newspaper, she
may possibly recollect that she has seen it abused in a newspaper
before."

"Well, sir," said Miss Monckton, "but you must see her for all
this."

"Well, madam, if you desire it, I will go.  See her I shall not,
nor hear her; but I'll go, and that will do.  The last time I was
at a play, I was ordered there by Mrs. Abington, or Mrs.
Somebody, I do not well remember who; but I placed myself in the
middle of the first row of the front boxes, to show that when I
was called I came."

The talk upon this matter went on very long, and with great
spirit.  At last, a large party of ladies arose at the same
time', and I tripped after them; Miss Monckton, however, made me
come back, for she said I must else wait in the other room till
those ladies' carriages drove away.
256

When I returned, Sir Joshua came and desired he might convey me
home; I declined the offer, and he pressed it a good deal, drolly
saying,--

"Why, I am old enough, a'n't I?"  And when he found me stout, he
said to Dr. Johnson,--"Sir, is not this very hard?  Nobody thinks
me very young, yet Miss Burney won't give me the privilege of age
in letting me see her home?  She says I a'n't old enough."(165)

I had never said any such thing.

"Ay," sir," said the doctor, "did I not tell you she was a riter
of romances?"


                             MRS. WALSINGHAM.

December 15.-To-day, by an invitation of ten days standing, I
waited upon Mrs. Walsingham.  She is a woman high in fame for her
talents,(166) and a wit by birth, as the daughter of Sir Charles
Hanbury Williams.

She has the character of being only civil to people of birth,
fame, or wealth, and extremely insolent to all others.  Of this,
however, I could see nothing, since she at least took care to
invite no company to her own house whom she was disposed to
disdain.  Her reception of me appeared rather singular.  She was
violently dressed,--a large hoop, flowers in her small and full
dressed cap, ribands and ornaments extremely shown, and a fan in
her hand.  She was very polite, said much of her particular
pleasure in seeing Me, and kept advancing to me near, that
involuntarily I retreated from her, not knowing er design, and
kept, therefore, getting further and further back as she came
forward, till I was stopped from any power of moving by the
wainscot.  I then necessarily stood still, and she saluted me.

We then quietly sat down, and my father began a very lively
conversation upon various subjects; she kept it up with attention
and good breeding, often referring to me, and seemig curious to
know my notions.

The rest of the company who came to dinner were Mrs. Montagu, Mr.
Percy, Speaker of the Irish House of Commons, his lady and
daughter, and Sir Joshua Reynolds and Miss Palmer.  I was
excessively glad to see the latter, who clung

257

to me all the visit, and took off from its formality and grandeur
by her chatting and intimacy.

Mrs. Walsingham lives in a splendid house in Stratford place,
elegantly fitted up, chiefly by her own paintings and drawingsl
which are reckoned extremely clever.  I hate that word, but
cannot think of another.

We did not stay late, for my father and I were both engaged to
Miss Monckton's; so was Sir Joshua, who accompanied us.



                               MRS. SIDDONS.

I was extremely happy to have my dear father with me at Miss
Monckton's.  We found Mrs. Siddons, the actress, there.  She is a
woman of excellent character, and therefore I am very glad she is
thus patronised, since Mrs. Abington, and so many frail fair
ones, have been thus noticed by the great.  She behaved with
great propriety ; very calm, modest, quiet, and unaffected - She
has a very fine countenance, and her eyes 'look both intelligent
and soft.  She has, however, a steadiness in her manner and
deportment by no means engaging.  Mrs. Thrale, who was there,
said,--"Why, this is a leaden goddess we are all worshipping!
however, we shall soon gild it."

A lady who sat near me then began a dialogue with Mr.
Erskine,(167) who had placed himself exactly opposite to Mrs.
Siddons; and they debated together upon her manner of studying
her parts, disputing upon the point with great warmth, yet not
only forbearing to ask Mrs. Siddons herself which was right, but
quite over-powering her with their loquacity, when she attempted,
unasked, to explain the matter.  Most vehement praise of all she
did followed, and the lady turned to me, and said,-

"What invitation, Miss Burney, is here, for genius to display
itself!--Everybody, I hear, is at work for Mrs. Siddons; but if
you would work for her, what an inducement to excel you would
both of you have!--Dr. Burney--."

"Oh, pray, ma'am," cried I, "don't say to him--"

"Oh, but I will!--if my influence can do you any mischief, you
may depend upon having it."

She then repeated what she had said to my father, and he
instantly said,--

"Your ladyship may be sure of my interest."

258

I whispered afterwards to know who she was, and heard she Was
Lady Lucan.


                   DR. JOHNSON'S INMATES'AT BOLT-COURT.

On Tuesday, Dec. 24, I went in the evening to call on Mrs.
Thrale, and tore myself away from her to go to Bolt-court to see
Dr. Johnson, who is very unwell.  He received me with great
kindness, and bade me come oftener, which I will try to contrive.
He told me he heard of nothing but me, call upon him who would ;
and, though he pretended to grow], he was evidently delighted for
me.  His usual set, Mrs. Williams and Mrs. De Mullins, were with
him; and some queer man of a parson who, after grinning at me
some time, said,--

"Pray, Mrs. De Mullins, is the fifth volume of 'Cecilia' at home
yet?  Dr. Johnson made me read it, ma'am."

"Sir, he did it much honour."

"Made you, sir?" said the doctor, "you give an ill account of
your own taste or understanding, if you wanted any making to read
such a book as 'Cecilia.'"

"Oh, sir, I don't mean that; for I am sure I left every thing in
the world to go on with it."

A shilling was now wanted for some purpose or other, and none of
them happened to have one ; I begged that I might lend one.

"Ay, do," said the doctor, "I will borrow of you ; authors are
like privateers, always fair game for one another."

"True, sir," said the parson, "one author is always robbing
another."

"I don't know that, sir," cried the doctor;  "there sits an
author who, to my knowledge, has robbed nobody.  I have never
once caught her at a theft.  The rogue keeps her resources to
herself!"


            THE TWO MR. CAMBRIDGES IMPROVE UPON ACQUAINTANCE.

Thursday.-In the morning Mr. Cambridge(168) came, and made a long
visit.  He is entertaining, Original, and well-bred; somewhat
formal, but extremely civil and obliging, and, I be-

259

lieve, remarkably honourable and strict in his principles and
actions.  I wished I could have been easy and chatty with him as
I hear he is so much my friend, and as I like him very
 much; but, in truth, he listens to every syllable I utter with
so grave a deference, that it intimidates and silences me.  When
he was about taking leave, he said,--

"Shall you go to Mrs. Ord's(169) to-morrow?"

"Yes, sir."

"I thought so," said he, smiling, "and hoped it.  Where shall you
go to-night?"

"No where,--I shall be at home."

"At home?  Are you sure?"

"Yes."

"Why, then, Miss Burney, my son(170) and I dine to-day in your
neighbourhood, at the Archbishop of York's, and, if you please,
we will come here in the evening."

This was agreed to.  And our evening was really a charming one.
The two Mr. Cambridges came at about eight o'clock, and the good
Mr. Hoole(171) was here.  My father came downstairs to them in
high spirits and good humour, and he and the elder Mr. Cambridge
not only talked enough for us all, but so well and so pleasantly
that no person present had even a wish to speak for himself.  Mr.
Cambridge has the best stock of good stories I almost ever heard;
and, though a little too precise in his manner, he is always
well-bred, and almost always entertaining.  Our sweet father kept
up the ball with him admirably, whether in anecdotes, serious
disquisitions, philosophy, or fun; for all which Mr. Cambridge
has both talents and inclination.

The son rises extremely in my opinion and liking.  He is
sensible, rational, and highly cultivated ; very modest in all he
asserts, and attentive and pleasing in his behaviour ; and he is
wholly free from the coxcombical airs, either of impertinence, or
negligence and nonchalance, that almost all the young men I meet,
except also young Burke, are tainted with.  What chiefly,
however, pleased me in him was observing that

260

he quite adores his father.  He attended to all his stories with
a face that never told he had heard them before; and, though he
spoke but little himself, he seemed as well entertained as if he
had been the leading person in the company,--a post which,
nevertheless, I believe he could extremely well sustain; and, no
doubt, much the better for being in no haste to aspire to it.  I
have seldom, altogether, had an evening with which I hav, been
better pleased.


THE SHILLING, THE CHAIRMAN, AND THE GREEN-SHOP GIRL.

Saturday, Dec. 28.-My father and I dined and spent the day at Sir
Joshua Reynolds's, after many preceding disappointments.  I had a
whispering conversation with Mrs. Reynolds,(172) which made me
laugh, from her excessive oddness and absurdity.

"I had the most unfortunate thing in the world happen to me," she
said, "about Mrs. Montagu, and I always am in some distress or
misfortune with that lady.  She did me the honour to invite me to
dine with her last week,--and I am sure there is nobody in the
world can be more obliged to Mrs. Montagu taking such notice of
any body;--but just when the day came I was so unlucky as to be
ill, and that, you know, made it quite improper to go to dine
with Mrs. Montagu, for fear of disagreeable consequences.  So
this vexed me very much, for I had nobody to send to her that was
proper to appear before Mrs. Montagu; for to own the truth, you
must know I have no servant but a maid, and I could not think of
sending such a person to Mrs. Montagu.  So I thought it best to
send a chairman, and to tell him only to ring at the bell, and to
wait for no answer; because then the porter might tell Mrs.
Montagu my servant brought the note, for the porter could not
tell but he might be my servant.

But my maid was so stupid, she took the shilling I gave her for
the chairman, and went to a green-shop, and bid the woman send
somebody with the note, and she left the shilling with her; so
the green-woman, I suppose, thought she might keep the shilling,
and instead of sending a chairman she sent her own errand-girl;
and she was all dirt and rags.  But this is not all; for,when the
girl got to the house, nothing would serve her but she would give
the note to Mrs. Montagu, and wait for an answer; so then, you
know, Mrs. Montagu saw this ragged green-shop girl.  I was never
so shocked in my

261

life, for when she brought me back the note I knew at once how it
all was.  Only think what a mortification, to have Mrs. Montagu
see such a person as that!  She must think it very odd of me
indeed to send a green-shop girl to such a house as hers!"



                  MR. SOAME JENYNS'S EULOGY ON "CECILIA."

Friday, [Jan. 17, 1783.)-Now for this grand interview with Soame
Jenyns.(173)  I went with my dear father who was quite enchanted
at the affair.  Dear soul, how he feeds upon all that brings fame
to "Cecilia!" his eagerness upon this subject, and his pleasure
in it, are truly enthusiastic, and, I think, rather increase by
fulness than grow satiated.

We were late; there was a good deal of company, not in groups,
nor yet in a circle, but seated square round the room, in order
following,--Miss Ellerker, Mrs. Soame Jenyns, Mrs. Thrale, her
daughter, Mrs. Buller, Mr. Cambridge, senior, Mr. Soame Jenyns,
Mr. Selwin, Mr. Cambridge, junior, Miss Burgoyne, a lady or two I
knew not, and three or four men.

Mrs. Ord almost ran to the door to receive us, and every creature
of this company, contrary to all present custom in large
meetings, stood up.

"Why have you been so late?" cried Mrs. Ord, "we have been
waiting for you this hour.  I was afraid there was some mistake."

"My father could not come sooner."

"But why would not you let me send my coach for you?  Mr. Soame
Jenyns has been dying with impatience; some of us thought you
would not come; others thought it only coquetry; but come, let us
repair the time as we can, and introduce you to one another
without further delay."

You may believe how happy I felt at this "some thought," and
"others," which instantly betrayed that everybody was

262

apprised they were to see this famous rencounter; and lest I
should mark it less, every body still stood up.  Mr. jenyns now,
with all the speed in his power, hastened up to me, and began a
long harangue of which I know hardly a word, upon the pleasure
and favour, and honour, and what not, of meeting me, and upon the
delight, and information, and amusement of reading "Cecilia."

I made all possible reverences, and tried to get to a seat, but
Mrs. Ord, when I turned from him, took my hand, and leading me to
the top of the room, presented me to Mrs. jenyns.  Reverences
were repeated here, in silence, however, so they did very well.
I then hoped to escape to Mrs. Thrale, who held out her hand to
me, pointing to a chair by her own, and saying,-

"Must I, too, make interest to be introduced to Miss Burney?"

This, however, was not allowed; Mrs. Ord again took my hand, and
parading me to the sofa, said,--

"Come, Miss Burney, and let me place you by Mrs. Buller."

I was glad, by this time, to be placed any where, for not till
then did the company seat themselves.

Mr. Cambridge, sen., then came up to speak to me, but had hardly
asked how I did before Mrs. Ord brought Mr. jenyns to me again,
and made him my right-hand neighbour, saying,-

"There! now I have put you fairly together, I have done with
you."

Mr. Soame jenyns then, thus called upon--could he do less?--began
an eulogy unrivalled, I think, for extravagance of praise.  All
creation was open to me; no human being ever began that book and
had power to put it down; pathos, humour, interest, moral--O
heavens!  I heard, however, but the leading words; though every
body else, the whole roon, being silent, doubtless heard how they
hung together.  Had I been carried to a theatre to hear an
oration upon my own performances, I could hardly have felt more
confounded.

I bowed my head during the first two or three sentences, by way
of marking that I thought them over; but over they were not the
more.  I then turned away, but I only met Mrs. Buller, who took
up the panegyric where Mr. jenyns stopped for breath.

In short, the things that were said, with the attention of the
whole company, would have drawn blushes into the cheeks of
Agujari or Garrick.  I was almost upon the point of running
263


away.  I changed so often from hot to cold that I really felt
myself in a fever and an ague.  I never even attempted to speak
to them, and I looked with all the frigidity I possibly could, in
hopes they would tire of bestowing such honours on a subject so
ungrateful.

One moment I had hopes that Mr. G. Cambridge, in Christian
charity, was coming to offer some interruption ; for, when these
speeches were in their height, he came and sat down on a chair
immediately opposite Miss Thrale, and equally near, in profile,
to me; but he merely said, "I hope Dr. Burney has not wanted his
pamphlet?"  Even Mrs. Thrale would not come near me, and told me
afterwards it had been such a settled thing before my arrival,
that I was to belong to Mr. Soame Jenyns, that she did not dare.

The moment they were gone, "Well, Miss Burney," said Mrs. Ord,
"have you and Mr. Jenyns had a great deal of conversation
together?"

"O yes, a great deal on my part!"

"Why you don't look quite recovered from it yet--did not you like
it?"

"O yes, it was perfectly agreeable to me!"

"Did he oppress you?" cried Mr. Cambridge, and then he began a
very warm praise of him for his talents, wit, and understanding,
his knowledge, writings, and humour.

I should have been very ready to have joined with him, had I not
feared he meant an implied reproach to me, for not being more
grateful for the praise of a man such as he described.  I am
sorry he was present if that is the case; but the truth is, the
evening was not merely disagreeable but painful to me.


                   AN ITALIAN SINGER'S VIEWS OF ENGLAND.

Saturday.-While Mr. George Cambridge was here Pacchierotti
 called-very grave, but very sweet.  Mr. G. C. asked if he spoke
English.

"O, very well," cried I, "pray try him; he is very amiable, and I
fancy you will like him."

Pacchierotti began with complaining of the variable weather.  "

I cannot," he said, "be well such an inconsistent day."

We laughed at the word "inconsistent," and Mr. Cambridge said,-


"It is curious to see what new modes all languages may take in
the hands of foreigners.  The natives dare not try such ex-

264

periments; and, therefore, we all talk pretty much alike ; but a
foreigner is obliged to hazard new expressions, and very often he
shews us a force and power in our words, by an unusual adaptation
of them, that we were not ourselves aware tlley would admit."

And then, to draw Pacchierotti out, he began a dispute, of the
different merits of Italy and England; defending his own country
merely to make him abuse it; while Pacchierotti most eagerly took
up the gauntlet on the part of Italy.

"This is a climate," said Pacchierotti, "never in the same case
for half an hour at a time; it shall be fair, and wet, and dry,
and humid, forty times in a morning in the least.  I am tired to
be so played with, sir, by your climate."

"We have one thing, however, Mr. Pacchierotti," he
answered, "which I hope you allow makes some amends, and that is
our verdure; in Italy you cannot boast that."

"But it seem to me, sir, to be of no utility so much evergreen is
rather too much for my humble opinion."

"And then your insects, Mr. Pacchierotti! those alone are a most
dreadful drawback upon the comfort of your fine climate.""

"I must own," said Pacchierotti, "Italy is rather disagreeable
for the insects; but is it not better, sir, than an atmosphere so
bad as they cannot live in it?"

"Why, as i can't defend our atmosphere, I must shift my ground,
and talk to you of our fires, which draw together society."

"O indeed, good sir, your societies are not very invigorating!
Twenty people of your gentlemen and ladies to sit about a fire,
and not to pronounce one word, is very dull!"

We laughed heartily at this retort courteous.


                RAPTURES OF THE "OLD WITS" OVER "CECILIA."

[Mary Delany was the daughter of Bernard Granville, younger
brother of George Granville, Baron Lansdowne, the poet and friend
of Wycherley and Pope.  She was born on the 14th Of May, 1700.
Her uncle, Lord Lansdowne, was a better friend to the Muses than
to his young niece, for he forced poor Mary Granville, at the age
of seventeen, to marry one Alexander Pendarves, a coarse, hard
drinking Cornish squire, of more than three times her age.
Pendarves died some six years later, and his widow married, in
1743, Dr. Patrick Delany, the friend of Swift.  With Delany she
lived happily for fifteen years, and after his death in 1768,
Mrs. Delany devoted most of her time to her
265

bosom friend, the dowager Duchess of Portland (see note (161),
ante, p. 251), at whose seat at Bulstrode she usually spent the
summer, while during the winter she resided at her own house in
St. James's-place, where she was constantly visited by the
Duchess.  On the death of the Duchess in July, 1785, King George
bestowed upon Mrs. Delany, whose means were not such as to make
an addition to them a matter of indifference, a furnished house
at Windsor and a pension Of 300 pounds a year.  These she enjoyed
for less than three years, dying on the 15th of April, 1788.

The strong attachment which grew up between her and Fanny renders
Mrs. Delany a very interesting figure in the "Diary."  Nor
wasFanny's enthusiasm for her aged friend misdirected.  Speakin
of Mrs'  Delany, Edmund Burke said: "She was a perfect
pattern of a perfect fine lady: a real fine lady of other days.
Her manners were faultless; her deportment was of marked
elegance; her speech was all sweetness; and her air and address
were all dignity.  I have always looked up to Mrs. Delany, as the
model of an accomplished gentlewoman of former times."(174)-ED.]

Sunday, January ig-And now for Mrs. Delany.  I spent one hour
with Mrs. Thrale, and then called for Mrs. Chapone,(175) and we
proceeded together to St. James's-place.

Mrs. Delany was alone in her drawing-room, which is entirely hung
round with pictures of her own painting, and Ornaments of her own
designing.  She came to the door to receive us.  She is still
tall, though some of her height may be lost: not much, however,
for she is remarkably upright.  She has no remains of beauty in
feature, but in countenance I never but once saw more, and that
was in my sweet maternal grandmother.  Benevolence, softness,
piety, and gentleness are all resident in her face ; and the
resemblance with which she struck me to my dear grandmother, in
her first appearance, grew so much stronger from all that came
from her mind, which seems to contain nothing but purity and
native humility,

266

that I almost longed to embrace her; and I am sure if I had the
recollection of that saint-like woman would have been so strong
that I should never have refrained from crying over her.

Mrs. Chapone presented me to her, and taking my hand* she said,--
"You must pardon me if I give you an old-fashioned reception, for
I know nothing new." And she saluted me.  I did not, as with Mrs.
Walsingham, retreat from her.

"Can you forgive, Miss Burney," she continued, "this great
liberty I have taken with you, of asking for your company to
dinner?  I wished so impatiently to see one from whom I have
received such extraordinary pleasure, that, as I could not be
alone this morning, I could not bear to put it off to another
day; and, if you had been so good to come in the evening, I
might, perhaps, have had company; and I hear so ill that I
cannot, as I wish to do, attend to more than one at a time; for
age makes me stupid even more than I am by nature; and how
grieved and mortified I must have been to know I had Miss Burney
in the room, and not to hear her!"

She then mentioned her regret that we could not stay and spend
the evening with her, which had been told her in our card of
accepting her invitation, as we were both engaged, which, for my
part, I heartily regretted.

"I am particularly sorry," she added, "on account of the Duchess
dowager of Portland, who is so good as to come to me in an
evening, as she knows I am too infirm to wait upon her grace
myself: and she wished so much to see Miss Burney.  But she said
she would come as early as possible."

Soon after we went to dinner, which was plain, neat, well cooked,
and elegantly served.  When it was over, I began to speak; and
now, my Chesington auditors, look to yourselves!

"Will you give me leave, ma'am, to ask if you remember any body
of the name of Crisp?"

"Crisp?" cried she, "What! Mrs. Ann Crisp?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"O surely! extremely well! a charming, an excellent woman she
was; we were very good friends once; I visited her at Burford,
and her sister Mrs. Gast."

Then came my turn, and I talked of the brother - but I won't
write what I said.  Mrs. Delany said she knew him but very
little; and by no means so much as she should have liked.  I
reminded her of
267

a letter he wrote her from abroad, which she immediately
recollected.

This Chesingtonian talk lasted till we went upstairs, and then
she shewed me the new art which she had invented.  It is staining
paper of all possible colours, and then cutting it out, so
finely, and delicately, that when it is pasted on paper or
vellum, it has all the appearance of being pencilled, except
that, by being raised, it has still a richer and more natural
look.  The effect is extremely beautiful.  She invented it at
tseventy-five!  She told me she did four flowers the first year;
sixteen the second; and the third, one hundred and sixty; and
after that many more.  They are all from nature, and consist of
the most curious flowers, plants, and weeds, that are to (be
found.  She has been supplied with patterns from all the great
gardens, and all the great florists in the kingdom.  Her plan was
to finish one thousand; but, alas! her eyes now fail her though
she has only twenty undone of her task,

about seven o'clock, the Duchess dowager of Portland came.  She
is not near so old as Mrs. Delany; nor, to me, is her face by any
means so pleasing; but yet there is sweetness, and dignity, and
intelligence in it.  Mrs. Delany received her with the same
respectful ceremony as if it was her first visit, though she
regularly goes to her every evening.  But what she at first took
as an honour and condescension, she has so much of true humility
of mind, that no use can make her see in any other light.  She
immediately presented me to her.  Her grace courtesied and smiled
with the most flattering air of pleasure, and said she was
particularly happy in meeting with me.  We then took our places,
and Mrs. Delany said,--

"Miss Burney, ma'am, is acquainted with Mr. Crisp, whom your
grace knew so well ; and she tells me he and his sister have been
so good as to remember me, and to mention me to her."

the duchess instantly asked me a thousand questions about
him--where he lived, how he had his health, and whether his
fondness for the polite arts still continued.  She said he was
one of the most ingenious and agreeable men she had ever
known, and regretted his having sequestered himself so much from
the society of his former friends.

IN the course of this conversation I found the duchess very
charming, high-bred, courteous, sensible, and spirited ; not
merely free from pride, but free from affability-its most
mortifying deputy.

268

After this she asked me if I had seen Mrs. SiddOns, and what I
thought of her.  I answered that I admired her very much.

"If Miss Burney approves her," said the duchess, "no approbation,
I am sure, can do her so much credit ; for no One can so
perfectly judge of characters or of human nature."

"Ah, ma'am," cried Mrs. Delany, archly, "and does your grace
remember protesting you would never read 'Cecilia?'"

"Yes," said she, laughing, "I declared that five volumes could
never be attacked; but since I began I have read it three times."

"O terrible!" cried I, "to make them out fifteen."

"The reason," continued she, "I held out so long against reading
them, was remembering the cry there was in favour of 'Clarissa'
and 'Sir Charles Grandison,' when they came out, and those I
never could read.  I was teased into trying both of them; but I
was disgusted with their tediousness, and could not read eleven
letters, with all the effort I could make: so much about my
sisters and my brothers, and all my uncles and my aunts!"

"But if your grace had gone on with 'Clarissa,'" said Mrs.
Chapone, "the latter part must certainly have affected you, and
charmed you."(176)

"O, I hate any thing so dismal!  Every body that did read it had
melancholy faces for a week.  'Cecilia' is as pathetic as I can
bear, and more sometimes; yet, in the midst of the sorrow, there
is a spirit in the writing, a fire in the whole composition, that
keep off that heavy depression given by Richardson.  Cry, to be
sure, we did.  Mrs. Delany, shall you ever forget how we cried?
But then we had so much laughter to make us amends, we were never
left to sink under our concern."

I am really ashamed to write on.

"For my part," said Mrs. Chapone, "when I first read it, I did
not cry at all; I was in an agitation that half killed me, that
shook all nerves, and made me unable to sleep at nights, from the
suspense I was in! but I could not cry, for excess of eagerness."

"I only wish," said the duchess, "Miss Burney could have been in
some corner, amusing herself with listening to us,

269

when Lord Weymouth, and the Bishop of Exeter, and Mr. Lightfoot,
and Mrs. Delany, and I, were all discussing the point -of the
name.  So earnest we were, she must have been diverted with us.
Nothing, the nearest our own hearts and interests, could have
been debated more warmly.  The bishop was quite as eager as any
of us; but what cooled us a little, at last, was Mr. Lightfoot's
thinking we were seriously going to quarrel; and while Mrs.
Delany and I were disputing about Mrs. Delvile, he very gravely
said, 'Why, ladies, this is only a matter of imagination; it is
not a fact: don't be so earnest.'"

"Ah, ma'am," said Mrs. Delany, "how hard your grace was upon Mrs.
Delvile: so elegant, so sensible, so judicious, so charming a
woman."

"O, I hate her," cried the duchess, "resisting that sweet
Cecilia; coaxing her, too, all the time, with such hypocritical
flattery."

"I shall never forget," said Mrs. Delany, "your grace's
earnestness when we came to that part where Mrs. Delvile bursts a
blood vessel.  Down dropped the book, and just with the same
energy as if your grace had heard some real and important news,
You called out, 'I'm glad of it with all my heart!'"

"What disputes, too," said Mrs. Chapone, "there are about Briggs.
I was in a room some time ago where somebody said there could be
no such character; and a poor little mean city man, who was
there, started up and said, 'But there is though, for I'se one
myself!'"

"The Harrels!--O, then the Harrels!" cried Mrs. Delany.

"If you speak of the Harrels, and of the morality of the book,"
cried the duchess, with a solemn sort of voice, "we shall,
indeed, never give Miss Burney her due: so striking, so pure, so
genuine, SO instructive."

"Yes," cried Mrs. Chapone, "let us complain how we will of the
torture she has given our nerves, we must all join in saying she
has bettered us by every line."

"No book," said Mrs. Delany, "ever was so useful as this, because
none other that is so good was ever so much read."

I think I need now write no more.  I could, indeed, hear no more;
for this last so serious praise, from characters so respectable,
so moral, and so aged, quite affected me; and though I had wished
a thousand times during the discourse to run out of the room,
when they gave me finally this solemn sanction to the meaning and
intention of my writing, I found it not without difficulty that I
could keep the tears out of my eyes; and
270

when I told what had passed to our sweet father, his cup quite
ran over.

The duchess had the good sense and judgment to feel she had drawn
up her panegyric to a climax, and therefore here she stopped; so,
however, did not we, for our coach was ready.


                      ILLNESS AND DEATH OF MR. CRISP.

(Fanny Burney to Mr. Crisp.)
April 12, 1783.

My dearest--dearest daddy,

I am more grieved at the long and most disappointing continuation
of your illness than I know how to tell YOU ; and though my last
account, I thank heaven, is better, I find you still suffer so
much, that my congratulations in my letter to Susan, upon what I
thought your recovery, must have appeared quite crazy, if you did
not know me as well as you do, and were not sure what affliction
the discovery of my mistake would bring to myself.  I think I
never yet so much wished to be at Chesington, as at this time,
that I might see how YOU go On, and not be kept in such painful
suspense from post to post.

Why did you tell me of the DelaDYS, Portlands, Cambridges, etc.,
as if any of them came into competition with yourself?  When you
are better, I shall send you a most fierce and sharp remonstrance
upon this subject.  At present I must be content with saying, I
will undoubtedly accept your most kind invitation as soon as I
possibly can.  Meantime, if my letters will give you any
amusement, I will write oftener than ever, and supply you with
all the prog I get myself.

Susan, who is my reader, must be your writer, and let me know if
such tittle-tattle as I can collect serves to divert some of
those many moments of languor and weariness that creep between
pain and ease, and that call more for mental food than for bodily
medicine.  Your love to your Fannikin, I well know, makes all
trash interesting to you that seems to concern her ; and I have
no greater pleasure, when absent, than in letting you and my dear
Susan be acquainted with my proceedings.    I don't mean by this
to exclude the rest of the dear Chesington set--far from it--
-but a sister and a daddy must come first.

God bless and restore you, my most dear daddy! You know

271

not how kindly I take your thinking of me, and inquiring about
me, in an illness that might so well make you forget us all; but
Susan assures me your heart is as affectionate as ever to your
ever and ever faithful and loving child, F. B.

[Mr. Crisp's illness became so alarming, that Miss Burney
hastened to Chesington, where she had been only a few days when
her valued friend breathed his last.  In reply to a letter, in
which she had given Dr. Burney an account of Mr. Crisp's
increasing sufferings, the doctor wrote:

"Ah! my dear Fanny, your last letter has broke all our hearts!
your former accounts kept off despair; but this brings it back in
all its horrors.  I wish, if it were possible, that you would let
him know how much I loved him, and how heavily I shall feel his
loss when all this hurry subsides, and lets me have time to brood
over my sorrows.  I have always thought that, in many
particulars, his equal was not to be found.  His wit, learning,
taste, penetration, and, when well, his conviviality, pleasantry,
and kindness of heart to me and mine, will ever be thought of
with the most profound and desponding regret."

After the last mournful duties had been performed at
Chesington,(177) Miss Burney returned to her father's house in
St. Martin's-street; but some time elapsed ere she recovered
composure sufficient to resume her journal.]

272
                    DR. JOHNSON ATTACKED BY PARALYSIS.

Thursday, june 19.-We heard to-day that Dr. Johnson had been
taken ill, in a way that gave a dreadful shock to himself, and a
most anxious alarm to his friends.  Mr. Seward brought the news
here, and my father and I instantly went to his house.  He had
earnestly desired me, when we lived so much together at
Streatham, to see him frequently if he should be ill.  He saw my
father, but he had medical people with him, and could not admit
me upstairs, but he sent me down a most kind message, that he
thanked me for calling, and when he was better should hope to see
me often.  I had the satisfaction to hear from Mrs. Williams that
the physicians had pronounced him to be in no danger, and
expected a speedy recovery.

The stroke was confined to his tongue. Mrs. Williams told me a
most striking and touching circumstance that attended the attack.
It was at about four o'clock in the morning: he found himself
with a paralytic affection; he rose, and composed in his own mind
a Latin prayer to the Almighty, "that whatever were the
sufferings for which he must prepare himself, it would please
Him, through the grace and mediation of our blessed Saviour, to
spare his intellects, and let them all fall upon his body." When
he had composed this, internally, he endeavoured to speak it
aloud, but found his voice was gone.

June 20.-I Went in the morning to Dr. Johnson, and heard a good
account of him.  Dr. Rose, Dr. Dunbar, and Sam Rose, the Doctor's
son, dined with us.  We expected the rest of our party early
though the absence of Dr. Johnson, whom they were all invited to
meet, took off the spirit of the evening.

July 1.-I had the satisfaction to hear from Sir Joshua that Dr.
Johnson had dined with him at the Club.  I look upon him,
therefore, now, as quite recovered.  I called the next morning to
congratulate him, and found him very gay and very good-humoured.


                                                         A PLEASANT DAY WITH THE CAMBRIDGES.

July 15.-To-day my father, my mother, and I, went by appointment
to dine and spend the day at Twickenham with the Cambridges.
Soon after our arrival Mr. C. asked if we should like to walk, to
which we most readily agreed.

We had not strolled far before we were followed by

273

Mr. George.  No sooner did his father perceive him, than, hastily
coming up to my side, he began a separate conversation with me;
and leaving his son the charge of all the rest, he made me walk
off with him from them all.  It was really a droll manoeuvre, but
he seemed to enjoy it highly, and though he said not a word of
his design, I am sure it reminded me of his own old trick to his
son, when listening to a dull story, in saying to the relator,--
"Tell the rest of that to George." And if George was in as
good-humour with his party as his father was with his why, all
were well pleased.  As soon as we had fairly got away from them,
Mr. Cambridge, with the kindest smiles of satisfaction, said,--"I
give you my word I never was more pleased at any thing in my life
than I am now at having you here to-day."

I told him that I had felt so glad at seeing him again, after so
long an absence, that I had really half a mind to have made up to
him myself, and shook hands.

"You cannot imagine," said he, "how you flatter me !-and there is
nothing, I do assure you, of which I am prouder, than seeing you
have got the better of your fear of me, and feeling that I am not
afraid of you."

"Of me, sir?--but how should you be?"

"Nay, I give you my word, if I was not conscious of the greatest
purity of mind, I should more fear you than any body in the
world.  You know everything, everybody," he continued, "so
wonderfully well!"

We then, I know not how, fell into discussing the characters of
forward and flippant women; and I told him it was my fortune to
be, in general, a very great favourite with them, though I felt
so little gratitude for that honour, that the smallest
discernment would show them it was all thrown away.

"Why, it is very difficult," said he, "for a woman to get rid of
those forward characters without making them her enemies.  But
with a man it is different.  Now I have a very peculiar
happiness, which I will tell you.  I never took very much to a
very amiable woman but I found she took also to me, and I have
the good fortune to be in the perfect confidence of some of the
first women in this kingdom; but then there are a great many
women that I dislike, and think very impertinent and foolish,
and, do you know, they all dislike me too!--they absolutely
cannot bear me!  Now, I don't know, of those two things, which is
the greatest happiness."

How characteristic this!--do you not hear him saying it?

274

We.now renewed our conversation upon various of our
acquaintances, particularly Mr. Pepys, Mr. Langton, and Mrs.
Montagu.  We stayed in this field, sitting and sauntering, near
an hour.  We then went to a stile, just by the riverside, where
the prospect is very beautiful, and there we seated ourselves.
Nothing could be more pleasant, though the wind was so high I was
almost blown into the water.

He now traced to me great part of his life and conduct in former
times, and told me a thousand excellent anecdotes of himself and
his associates.  He summed them all up in a way that gave me
equal esteem and regard for him, in saying he found society the
only thing for lasting happiness ; that, if he had not met a
woman he could permanently love, he must with every other
advantage have been miserable- but that such was his good
fortune, that "to and at this moment," he said, "there is no
sight so pleasing to me as seeing Mrs. Cambridge enter a room ;
and that after having been married to her for forty years.  And
the next most pleasing sight to me is an amiable woman."

He then assured me that almost all the felicity of his life both
had consisted, and did still consist, in female society.  It was,
indeed, he said, very rare but there was nothing like it.

"And if agreeable women," cried I, "are rare, much more so, I
think, are agreeable men; at least, among my acquaintance they
are very few, indeed, that are highly agreeable."

"Yes, and when they are so," said he, "it is difficult for you to
have their society with any intimacy or comfort; there'are always
so many reasons why you cannot know them."

We continued chatting until we came to the end of the meadow, and
there we stopped, and again were joined by the company.

Mr. Cambridge now proposed the water, to which I eagerly agreed.

We had an exceeding pleasant excursion.  We went up the river
beyond the Duke of Montagu's, and the water was smooth and
delightful.  Methinks I should like much to sail from the very
source to the mouth of the Thames. . . .

After dinner we again repaired to the lawn, in a general body ;
but -we- had scarce moved ten paces, before Mr. Cambridge again
walked off with me, to a seat that had a very "fine view of
Petersham wood, and there we renewed our confabulation.

He now shewed me a note from Mr. Gibbon, sent to engage

275

himself to Twickenham on the unfortunate day he got his
ducking.(178)  It is the most affected little piece of writing I
ever saw.  He shall attend him, he says, at Twickenham, and upon
the water, as soon as the weather is propitious, and the Thames,
that amiable creature, is ready, to receive him.

Nothing, to be sure, could be so apt as such a reception as that
"amiable creature" happened to give him!  Mr. Cambridge said it
was "God's revenge against conceit."


                     DR. JOHNSON's HEROic FORBEARANCE.

Tuesday, December 9-This evening at Mrs. Vesey's, Mr. George
Cambridge came, and took the chair half beside me.  I told him of
some new members for Dr. Johnson's club!(179)

"I think," said he, " it sounds more like some club that one
reads of in the 'Spectator,' than like a real club in these
times; for the forfeits of a whole year will not amount to those
of a single night in other clubs.  Does Pepys belong to it?"

"Oh no! he is quite of another party!  He is head man on the side
of the defenders of Lord Lyttelton.  Besides, he has had enough
of Dr. Johnson; for they had a grand battle upon the 'Life of
Lyttelton,' at Streatham."

"And had they really a serious quarrel?  I never imagined it had
amounted to that."

"yes, serious enough, I assure you.  I never saw Dr. Johnson
really in a passion but then: and dreadful, indeed, it was to
see.  I wished myself away a thousand times.  It was a frightful
scene.  He so red, poor Mr. Pepys
so pale!"

"But how did it begin?  What did he say?"

276

" Oh, Dr. Johnson came to the point without much ceremony.  He
called out aloud, before a large company, at dinner, 'What have
you to say, sir, to me or of me?  Come forth, man!  I hear you
object to my "Life of Lord Lyttelton."  What are your objections?
If you have anything to say, let's hear it.  Come forth, man,
when I call you!'"

"What a call, indeed!  Why, then, he fairly bullied him into a
quarrel!"

"Yes.  And I was the more sorry, because Mr. Pepys had begged of
me, before they met, not to let Lord Lyttelton be mentioned.  Now
I had no more power to prevent it than this macaroon cake in my
hand."

"It was behaving ill to Mrs. Thrale, certainly, to quarrel in her
house."

" Yes; but he never repeated it; though he wished of all things
to have gone through just such another scene with Mrs, Montagu,
and to refrain was an act of heroic forbearance."

"Why, I rather wonder he did not ; for she was the head of the
set of Lytteltonians."

"Oh, he knows that; he calls Mr. Pepys only her prime minister."

"And what does he call her ?

"Queen,' to be sure!  'Queen of the blues.'  She came to
Streatham one morning, and I saw he was dying to attack her.  But
he had made a promise to Mrs. Thrale to have no more quarrels in
her house, and so he forced himself to forbear.  Indeed he was
very much concerned, when it was over, for what had passed; and
very candid and generous in acknowledging it.  He is too noble to
adhere to wrong."

"And how did Mrs. Montagu herself behave?"

"Very stately, indeed, at first.  She turned from him very
stiffly, and with a most distant air, and without even
courteseying to him, and with a firm intention to keep to what
she had publicly declared--that she would never speak to him
more!  However, he went up to her himself, longing to begin!  and
very roughly said,--'Well, madam, what's become of your fine new
house?  I hear no more of it.'

" But how did she bear this?"

" Why she was obliged to answer him; and she soon grew so
frightened--as everybody else does--that she was as civil as
ever."

he laughed heartily at this account.  But I told him Dr. Johnson
was now much softened.  He had acquainted me,
277

when I saw him last, that he had written to her upon the death of
Mrs. Williams, because she had allowed her something yearly,
which now ceased. 'And I had a very kind answer from her,' said
he.

"'Well then, sir,' cried I, 'I hope peace now will be again
proclaimed.'"

"'Why, I am now,' said he, 'come to that time when I wish all
bitterness and animosity to be at an end.  I have never done her
any serious harm--nor would I; though I could give her a bite!--
but she must provoke me much first.  In volatile talk, indeed, I
may have spoken of her not much to her mind; for in the tumult of
conversation malice is apt to grow sprightly! and there, I hope,
I am not yet decrepid!'"

He quite laughed aloud at this characteristic speech.

I most readily assured the doctor that I had never yet seen him
limp."


                      "SWEET BEWITCHING MRS. LOCKE."

Friday, April 23, 1784.-The sweet and most bewitching Mrs. Locke
called upon me in the evening, with her son George.(179)  I let
her in and did so rejoice I had not gone to Mrs. Vesey's.  But I
rejoiced for only a short time; she came but to take leave, for
she was going to Norbury the very next morning.  I was quite
heavy all the evening.  She does truly interest both head and
heart.  I love her already.  And she was so kind, so caressing,
so soft ; pressed me so much to fix a time for going to Norbury ;
said such sweet things of Mrs. Phillips; and kissed me so
affectionately in quitting me, that I was quite melted by her.

What a charm has London lost for me by her departure sweet crea
ture that she is ; born and bred to dispense pleasure and delight
to all who see or know her! She, Mrs. Thrale and Mrs. Delany, in
their several ways all excellent, possess the joint powers of
winning the affections, while they delight the intellects, to the
highest summit I can even conceive of human attraction.  The
heart-fascination of Mrs. Thrale, indeed, few know - but those
few must confess and must feel her sweetness, to them, is as
captivating as her wit is brilliant to all.

278

                      MRS. THRALE'S SECOND MARRIAGE.

(Mrs. Thrale to Fanny Burney.)
Mortimer-st., Cavendish-sq.
Tuesday night, May (11), 1784.


I am come, dearest Burney.  It is neither dream nor fiction,
though I love you dearly, or I would not have come.  Absence and
distance do nothing towards wearing out real affection so you
shall always find it in your true and tender H. L. T.

I am somewhat shaken bodily, but 'tis the mental shocks that have
made me unable to bear the corporeal ones.  'Tis past ten
o'clock, however, and I must lay myself down with the sweet
expectation of seeing my charming friend in the
morning to breakfast.  I love Dr. Burney too well to fear him,
and he loves me too well to say a word which should make me love
him less.

May 17.-Let me now, my Susy, acquaint you a little more
connectedly than I have done of late how I have gone on.  The
rest of that week I devoted almost wholly to sweet Mrs. Thrale,
whose society was truly the most delightful of cordials to me,
however, at times, mixed with bitters the least palatable.  Were
I not sensible of her goodness, and full of incurable affection
for her, should I not be a monster? . . .

I parted most reluctantly with my dear Mrs. Thrale, whom, when or
how I shall see again heaven only knows ! but in sorrow we
parted--on my side in real affliction.

[Towards the end of July in this year, Mrs. Thrale's second
marriage took place with Mr. Piozzi, and Miss Burney Went about
the same time to Norbury Park, where she passed some weeks with
Mr and Mrs. Locke.  The following "sketch" of a letter, and
memorandum of what had recently passed between Mrs. Piozzi and
herself, is from the journal of that period.]

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Piozzi.)
Norbury Park,
Aug. 10, 1784.

 When my wondering eyes first looked over the letter I received
last night, my mind instantly dictated a high-spirited
279

vindication of the consistency, integrity, and faithfulness of
the friendship thus abruptly reproached and cast away.  But a
sleepless night gave me leisure to recollect that you were ever
as generous as precipitate, and that your own heart would do
justice to mine, in the cooler judgment of future reflection.
Committing myself, therefore, to that period, I determined Simply
to assure you, that if my last letter hurt either you or Mr.
Piozzi, I am no less sorry than surprised; and that if it
offended you, I sincerely beg your pardon.

Not to that time, however, can I wait to acknowledge the pain an
accusation so unexpected has caused me, nor the heartfelt
satisfaction with which I shall receive, when you are able to
write it, a softer renewal of regard.

May heaven direct and bless you!  F. B.

N.B.--This is the sketch of the answer which F. B. most painfully
wrote to the unmerited reproach of not sending "cordial
congratulations" upon a marriage which she had uniformly, openly,
and with deep and avowed affliction, thought wrong.

(Mrs. Piozzi to Fanny Burney)
Wellbeck-st., NO, 33, Cavendish-sq.,
Friday, Aug. 13, 1784.

Give yourself no serious concern, sweetest Burney.  All is well,
and I am too happy myself to make a friend otherwise; quiet your
kind heart immediately, and love my husband if you love his and
your H. L. Piozzi.

N.B.-To this kind note, F. B. wrote the warmest and most
affectionate and heartfelt reply; but never received another
word!  And here and thus stopped a correspondence of six years of
almost unequalled partiality, and fondness on her side ; and
affection, gratitude, admiration, and sincerity on that of 'F.
B., who could only conjecture the cessation to be caused by the
resentment of Piozzi, when informed of her constant opposition to
the union.


                               A HAPPY HOME.

Friday, Oct. 8.-I set off with my dear father for Chesington,
where we passed five days very comfortably ; my father was all
good humour, all himself,--such as you and I mean by that


280

word.  The next day we had the blessing of your Dover letter(180)
and on Thursday, Oct.:14, I arrived at dear Norbury Park 'at
about seven o'clock, after a pleasant ride in the dark.  Locke
most kindly and cordially welcomed me; he came out upon the steps
to receive me, and his beloved Fredy(181) waited for me in the
vestibule.  Oh, with what tenderness did she take me to her
bosom!  I felt melted with her kindness, but I could not express
a joy like hers, for my heart was very fullfull of my dearest
Susan, whose image seemed before me upon the spot where we had so
lately been together.  They told me that Madame de la Fite, her
daughter, and Mr. Hinde, were in the house; but as I am now, I
hope, come for a long time, I did not vex at hearing this.  Their
first inquiries were if I had not heard from Boulogne.(182)

Saturday.-I fully expected a letter, but none came; but Sunday I
depended upon one.  The post, however, did not arrive before we
went to church.  Madame de la Fite, seeing my sorrowful looks,
good naturedly asked Mrs. Locke what could be set about to divert
a little la pauvre Mademoiselle Beurney? and proposed reading a
drama of Madame de Genlis.  I approved it much, preferring it
greatly to conversation and accordingly, she and her daughter,
each taking characters to themselves, read "La Rosire de
Salency."  It is a very interesting and touchingly simple little
drama.  I was so much pleased that they afterwards regularly read
one every evening while they stayed.

Next morning I went up stairs as usual, to treat myself with a
solo of impatience for the post, and at about twelve o'clock I
heard Mrs. Locke stepping along the passage.  I was sure of good
news, for I knew, if there was bad, poor Mr. Locke would have
brought it.  She came in, with three letters in her hand, and
three thousand dimples in her cheeks and chin! Oh, my dear Susy,
what a sight to me was your hand ! I hardly cared for the letter;
I hardly desired to open it ; the direction alone almost
satisfied me sufficiently.  How did Mrs. Locke embrace me! I half
kissed her to death.  O Then came dear Mr. Locke, his eyes
brighter than ever--"Well, how does she do?"

281

This question forced me to open my letter; all was just as I
could wish, except that I regretted the having written the day
before such a lamentation.  I was so congratulated! I shook hands
with Mr. Locke; the two dear little girls came jumping to wish me
joy and Mrs. Locke ordered a fiddler, that they might have a
dance in the evening, which had been promised them from the time
of Mademoiselle de la Fite's arrival, but postponed from day to
 day, by general desire, on account of my uneasiness.

Monday, Oct. 25-Mr. Hinde and Madame and Mademoiselle de la Fite
all left us.  They were all so good humoured and so happy, there
was no being glad ; though how to be sorry at remaining alone
with this family, I really know not.  Both the De la Fites went
away in tears.  I love them for it.

Wednesday, Nov. 3-This day has brought ine another sweet letter
from my Susy.  What a set of broken-fortuned, brokencharactered
people of fashion are about you at Boulogne.(183)  The accounts
are at once curious and melancholy to me.

Nothing can be more truly pleasant than our present lives.  I
bury all disquietudes in immediate enjoyment; an enjoyment more
fitted to my secret mind than any I had ever hoped to attain.  We
are so perfectly tranquil, that not a particle of our whole
frames seems ruffled or discomposed., Mr. Locke is gayer and more
sportive than I ever have seen him; his Freddy seems made up of
happiness; and the two dear little girls are in spirits almost
ecstatic; and all from that internal contentment which Norbury
Park seems to have gathered from all corners of the world into
its own sphere.
Our mornings, if fine, are to ourselves, as .Mr. Locke rides out;
if bad, we assemble in the picture room.  We have two books in
public reading: Madame de S6vigne's "Letters," and Cook's last
"Voyage."  Mrs. Locke reads the French, myself the English.

Our conversations, too, are such as I could almost wish to last
for ever.  Mr. Locke has been all himself,-all instruction,
information, and intelligence,--since we have been left alone;
and the invariable sweetness, as well as judgment, of all he
says, leaves, indeed, nothing to wish.  They will not let me go
while I can stay, and I am now most willing to stay till I must
go.  The serenity of a life like this,

282

smoothes the whole internal surface of the mind.  My own I assure
you, begins to feel quite glossy.  To see Mrs. Locke so entirely
restored to total health, and to see her adoring husband lose all
his torturing Solicitude, while he retains his Unparalleled
tenderness-these are sights to anticipate a taste of paradise, if
paradise has any felicity consonant to our now ideas.

Tuesday, Nov. 9.- This is Mr. William Locke's birthday; he is now
seventeen.  he came home, with his brothers, to keep it, three
days ago.  May they all be as long-lived and as happy as they are
now sweet and amiable! This sweet place is beautiful even yet,
though no longer of a beauty young and blooming, such as you left
it; but the character Of the prospect is so 'grand that winter
cannot annihilate its charms, though it greatly diminishes them.
The variety of the grounds, and the striking form of the hills,
always afford something new to observe, and contain something
lasting to admire.  Were 1, however, in a desert, people such as
these would make it gay and cheery.


                LADY F.'s ANGER AT MRS. PIOZZI'S MARRIAGE.

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Locke.)
St. Martin's-st.,
Nov. 14.


. . . . . I had a very unpleasant morning after I left you.  When
the coach and I had waited upon my father, I made the visit I
mentioned to you.  O what a visit!--all that I pre-supposed of
attack, inquiry, and acrimony, was nothing to what passed.  Rage
more intemperate I have not often seen ; and the shrill voice of
feeble old age, screaming with unavailing passion is horrible.
She had long looked upon Mrs. Thrale as a kind of prot6ge, whom
she had fondled as a child, and whose fame, as she grew into
notice, she was always proud to hear of, and help to exalt.
She is a woman (I can well attest !) of most furious passions
herself, however at liberty she thinks she may be to show no sort
of mercy to those of another.

Once, had I been less disturbed, I could have laughed; for she
declared with great vehemence, that if she had suspected "the
wretch of any intention to marry the man, she would have ordered
her own postchaise, and followed her to prevent it!"
283

Alas, poor Lady F.

She then called upon me, to hear my story ; which, most painfully
to myself, I related.  She expressed herself very sorry for me,
till I came to an avowal of my letter after the marriage she then
flew out into new choler.  "I am amazed you would write to her,
Miss Burney!  I wonder you could think of it any more.

I told her, I had thought myself so much indebted to her patience
with my opposition to all her views and wishes for the whole tine
of her long conflict, that, although I was the first to
acknowledge her last action indefensible, I should be the last to
forget all that had made me love her before it was committed.

This by no means satisfied her, and she poured forth again a
torrent of unrelenting abuse.  Some company, at last, came in,
and I hastily took my leave.  She called after me to fix some day
for a longer visit ; but I pretended not to hear, and ran down
stairs, heartily resolving that necessity alone should ever force
me into her presence again.

When I came home--before I could get upstairs--I was summoned to
Miss Streatfield, whom I met with as little pleasure as Lady F.,
since I had never seen her, nor indeed anybody, from the time
this cruel transaction has been published.  Not that I dreaded
her violence, for she is as gentle as a lamb but there were
causes enough for dread of another nature.  However fortunately
and unexpectedly, she never named the subject, but prattled away
upon nothing but her own affairs; and so, methinks, have I done
too, and just as if I knew you wished to hear them.  Do you?--I
ask only for decency's sake.


                       DR. JOHNSON's FAILING HEALTH.

Norbury Park, Sunday, Nov. 28.-Last Thursday, my father set me
down at Bolt-court, while lie went on upon business.  I was
anxious to again see poor Dr. Johnson, who has had terrible
health since his return from Lichfield.  He let me in, though
very ill.  He was alone, which I much rejoiced at; for I had a
longer and more satisfactory conversation with him than I have
had for many months.  He was in rather better spirits, too, than
I had lately seen him.  but he told me he was going to try what
sleeping Out of town might do for him
284

"I remember," said he, "that my wife, when she was near her end,
poor woman, was also advised to sleep out of town, and when she
was carried to the lodgings that had been prepared for her, she
complained that the staircase was in very bad condition--for the
plaster was beaten off the wall in many places.  'Oh,' said the
man of the house, 'that's nothing but by the knocks against it of
the coffins of the poor souls that have died in the lodgings.'

 He laughed, though not without apparent secret anguish, in
telling me this.  I felt extremely shocked, but, willing to
confine my words at least to the literal story, I only exclaimed
against the unfeeling absurdity of such a confession.

"Such a confession," cried he, "to a person then coming to try
his lodgings for her health, contains, indeed, more absurdity
than we can well lay our account for."

I had seen Miss Thrale the day before.

"So," said he, "did I."

I then said,--"Do you ever, sir, hear from her mother?"

"No," cried he, "nor write to her.  I drive her quite from my
mind.  If I meet with one of her letters, I burn it instantly.  I
have burnt all I can find.  I never speak of her, and I desire
never to hear of her more.  I drive her, as I said, wholly from
my mind."

Yet, wholly to change this discourse, I gave him a history of the
Bristol milk-woman, and told him the tales I had heard of her
writing so wonderfully, though she had read nothing but Young and
Milton "though those," I continued, "could never possibly, I
should think, be the first authors with anybody.  Would children
understand them? and grown people who have not read are children
in literature."

"Doubtless," said he; "but there is nothing so little
comprehended among mankind as what is genius.  They give to it
all, when it can be but a part.  Genius is nothing more than
knowing the use of tools - but there must be tools for it to use:
a man who has spent all his life in this room will give a very
poor account of what is contained in the next." '

"Certainly, sir ; yet there is such a thing as invention.
Shakspeare could never have seen a Caliban."

" No; but he had seen a man, and knew, therefore, how to vary him
to a monster.  A man who would draw a monstrous cow, must first
know what a cow commonly is; or how can he tell that to give her
an ass's head or an elephant's tusk will make her monstrous.
Suppose you show me a man who is a very
285

expert carpenter; another will say he was born to be a
carpenter-but what if he had never seen any wood? Let two men,
one with genius, the other with none, look at an overturned
waggon ; he who has no genius, will think of the waggon only as
he sees it, overturned, and walk on ; he who has genius, will
paint it to himself before it was overturned-standing still, and
moving on, and heavy loaded, and empty ; but both must see the
waggon, to think of it at all."

He then animated, and talked on, upon this milk-woman, upon a
once as famous shoemaker, and upon our immortal Shakspeare, with
as much fire, spirit, wit, and truth of criticism and judgment,
as ever yet I have heard him.  How delightfully bright are his
faculties, though the poor and infirm machine that contains them
seems alarmingly giving way.

Yet, all brilliant as he was, I saw him growing worse, and
offered to go, which, for the first time I ever remember, he did
not oppose; but, most kindly pressing both my hands,--

"Be not," he said, in a voice of even tenderness, "be not longer
in Coming again for my letting you go now."

I assured him I would be the sooner, and was running off.  but he
called me back, in a solemn voice, and, in a manner the most
energetic, said,--

"Remember me in your prayers!"

I longed to ask him to remember me, but did not dare.  I gave him
my promise, and, very heavily indeed, I left him.  Great, good,
and excellent that he Is, how short a time will he be our boast!
Ah, my dear Susy, I see he is going!  This winter will never
conduct him to a more genial season here!  Elsewhere, who shall
hope a fairer?  I wish I had bid him pray for me, but it seemed
to me presumptuous.


                      DR. JOHNSON DYING.  His DEATH.

Wednesday, Dec. 8.-At night my father brought us the most dismal
tidings of dear Dr. Johnson.  Dr. Warren had seen him, and told
him to take what opium he pleased! He had thanked and taken leave
of all his physicians.  Alas!--I shall lose him, and he will take
no leave of me!(184)  My father was deeply depressed ; he has
himself tried in vain for admission this week.  Yet some people
see him--the Hooles, Mr.  Sastres,

286

Mr. Langton;--but then they must be in the house, watching for
one moment, whole hours.  I hear from every one he is now
perfectly resigned to his approaching fate, and no longer in
terror of death.  I am thankfully happy in hearing that he speaks
himself now of the change his mind has undergone, from its dark
horror--and says--"He feels the irradiation of hope," Good, and
pious, and excellent Christian--who shall feel it if not he?

Dec. 11.-We had a party to dinner, by long appointment, for
which, indeed, none of us were well disposed, the apprehension of
hearing news only of death being hard upon us all.  The party
was, Dr. Rose, Dr. Gillies, Dr. Garthshore, and Charles.

The day could not be well--but mark the night.

My father, in the morning, saw this first of men!  I had not his
account till bed-time; he feared over-exciting me.  He would not,
he said, but have seen him for worlds!  He happened to be better,
and admitted him.  He Was up, and very composed.  He took his
hand very kindly, asked after all his family, and then, in
particular, how Fanny did?  "I hope," he said, "Fanny did not
take it amiss that I did not see her?  I was very bad!"

Amiss!--what a Word!  Oh that I had been present to have answered
it!  My father stayed, I suppose, half an hour, and then was
coming away.  He again took his hand, and encouraged him to come
again to him ; and when he Was taking leave, said--"Tell Fanny to
pray for me!"

Ah! dear Dr. Johnson!  might I but have your prayers! After
which, still grasping his hand, he made a prayer for himself,--
the most fervent, pious, humble, eloquent, and touching, my
father says, that ever was composed.  Oh, would I had heard it!
He ended it with Amen!  in which my father joined, and was echoed
by all present.  And again, when my father was leaving him, he
brightened up, something of his arch look returned, and he said-
-"I think I shall throw the ball at Fanny yet!"

Little more passed ere my father came away, decided, most
tenderly, not to tell me this till our party was done.

This most earnestly increased my desire to see him; this kind and
frequent Mention of me melted me into double sorrow and regret.
I would give the world I had but gone to him that day!  It was,
however, Impossible, and the day was over before I knew he had
said what I look upon as a call to me.  This
287

morning,(185) after church time, I went.     Frank(186) said he
was very ill, and saw nobody; I told him I had understood by my
father the day before that he meant      'to see me.   He then
let me in. I went into his room up stairs; he was in his bedroom.
I saw it crowded, and ran hastily down. Frank told me his master
had refused seeing even Mr. Langton. I told him merely to say I
had called, but by no means to press my admission. His own
feelings were all that should be consulted ; his tenderness, I
knew, Would be equal, whether he was able to see me or not.

I went into the parlour, preferring being alone in the cold, to
any company with a fire. Here I waited long, here and upon the
stairs, which I ascended and descended to meet again with Frank,
and make inquiries ; but I met him not. At last, upon Dr.
Johnson's ringing his bell, I saw Frank enter his room, and Mr.
Langton follow. "Who's that?" I heard him say; they answered,
"Mr. Langton," and I found he did not return.

Soon after, all the rest went away but a Mrs. Davis, a good sort
of woman, whom this truly charitable soul had sent for to take a
dinner at his house.     I then went and waited with her by the
fire ; it was, however, between three and four o'clock before I
got any answer.        Mr. Langton then came himself.
He could not look at me, and I turned away from him. Mrs. Davis
asked how the doctor was? "Going on to death very fast!" was his
mournful answer.      "Has he taken," said she, "anything?"
"Nothing at all!  We carried him some bread and milk--he refused
it, and said--'The less the better.'"  She asked more questions,
by which I found his faculties were perfect, his mind composed,
and his dissolution was quick drawing on. . . .

I could not immediately go on, and it is now long since I have
written at all; but I will go back to this afflicting theme,
which I can now better bear.

Mr. Langton was, I believe, a quarter of an hour in the room
before I suspected he meant to speak to me, never looking near
me. At last he said--

"This poor man, I understand, ma'am, desired yesterday to see
you."

"My understanding that, sir, brought me here to-day."

"Poor man! it is a pity he did not know himself better, and that
you should have had this trouble."

288

"Trouble!" cried I; "I would have come a hundred times to see him
the hundredth and first!"

"He hopes, now, you will excuse him ; he is very sorry not to see
you; but he desired me to come and speak to you myself, and tell
you he hopes you will excuse him, for he feels himself too weak
for such an interview."

I hastily got up, left him my most affectionate respects, and
every good wish I could half utter, and ran back to the coach.
Ah, my Susy! I have never been to Bolt-court since! I then drove
to poor Miss Strange,(187) to make inquiries of the maid but
Andrew ran out to the coach door, and told me all hope was at an
end.  In short, the next day was fatal to both !-the same day!

December 20.-This day was the ever-honoured, ever-lamented Dr.
Johnson committed to the earth.  Oh, how sad a day to me!  My
father attended, and so did Charles.(188)  I could not keep my
eyes dry all day; nor can I now, in the recollecting it; but let
me pass over what to mourn Is now so vain!

December 30.--In the evening I went to Mrs. Chapone.  I was late,
on account of the coach, and all her party was assembled.  This
was the first time I had seen any of them, except Mrs. Ord, since
last spring.  I was received with the utmost kindness by them
all, but chiefly by Mrs. Chapone herself, who has really, I
believe, a sincere regard for me.  I had talk with all of them,
except Mrs. Levison, with whom I have merely a courtesying
acquaintance.  But I was very sad within; the loss of dear Dr.
Johnson--the flight of Mrs. Thrale, the death of poor Miss Kitty
Cambridge, and of poor, good Miss Strange,--all these home and
bosom strokes, which had all struck me since my last meeting this
society, were revolving in my mind the whole time I stayed.

Sir Lucas Pepys talked to me a great deal of Mrs. Thrale, and
read me a letter from her, which seems to shew her gay and happy.
I hope it shews not false colours.  No one else named her - but
poor Dr. Johnson was discussed repeatedly.  How melancholy will
all these circumstances render these once so pleasant meetings.

(153) "Memoirs of Dr. Burney," vol. ii. p. 110.

(154) The physician, afterwards Sir Lucas Pepys.-ED.

(155) A character in "Cecilia."-ED.

(156) The master of the ceremonies.

(157) Philip Metcalf, elected member of Parliament for Horsham,
together with Mr. Crutchley, in 1784.-ED.

(158) Miss Burney had seen this gentleman a few days previously
and thus speaks of him in her "Diary." -Mr. Kaye of the
Dragoons,--a baronet's son, and a very tall, handsome, and
agreeable-looking young man; and, is the folks say, it is he for
whom all the belles here are sighing.  I was glad to see he
seemed quite free from the nonchalance, impertinence of the
times."-ED.

(159) Afterwards Countess of Cork and Orrery.

(160) The Thrales and Fanny were now again in London, whither
they returned from Brighton, November 20.  Mrs, Thrale had taken
a house in Argyle-street,-ED.

(161) Lady Margaret Cavendish Harley, daughter of Robert Harley,
Earl of Oxford; married, in 1734, to the second Duke of Portland,
She inherited from her father a taste for literature.  She was
the constant  associate of Mrs. Delaney, and an old friend of Mr.
Crisp.  Of Mrs. Delany we shall give some account hereafter-ED. I

(162) Mrs. Greville's maiden name was Frances Macartney.-ED.

(163) The miserly guardian of Cecilia, in Fanny's novel.
Among the "Fragments of the journal of Charlotte Anne Burney,"
appended to the "Early Diary," occurs the following passage,
written at the end of 1782.  "Fanny's Cecilia came out last
summer, and is as much liked and read I believe as any book ever
was.  She had 250 pounds for it from Payne and Cadell.  Most
people say she ought to have had a thousand.  It is now going
into the third edition, though Payne owns that they printed 2,000
at the first edition, and Lowndes told me five hundred was the
common number for a novel." ("Early Diary," vol. ii. P. 307.)-ED.

(164)  Richard Burke, the only son of the great Edmund.  He died
in 1794, before his father.-ED.

(165) Sir Joshua Reynolds was then in his sixtieth year; he was
born in 1723.-ED.

(166) She copied pictures cleverly and painted portraits.-ED.

(167) Probably the Hon. Thomas Erskine, afterwirds Lord
Chancellor.-ED.


(168) Richard Owen Cambridge, a gentleman admired for his wit in
conversation, and esteemed as an author.  "He wrote a burlesque
poem called 'The Scribleriad,' and was a principal contributor to
the periodical paper called 'The World.'"  He died in 1802, at
his villa on the banks of the Thames, near Twickenham, aged
eighty-five years.-ED.

(169) Mrs. Ord was a famous blue-stocking and giver of literary
parties, and a constant friend of Fanny's-ED.

(170) The Rev. George Owen Cambridge, second son of Richard Owen
Cambridge, whose works he edited, and whose memoir he wrote.  He
died at Twickenham in 1841.-ED.

(171 John Hoole, the translator of Tasso.-ED.

(172) Frances Reynolds, the miniature painter,-Sir Joshua's
sister-ED.

(173) Soame Jenyns was one of the most celebrated of the "old
wits."  He was born in 1704; was for twenty-five years member of
Parliament for Cambridgeshire; died in 1787.  His principal works
were "A Free Enquiry into the Origin of Evil," and "A View of the
Internal Evidence of the Christian Religion."  Boswell writes of
him: "Jenyns was possessed of lively talents, and a style
eminently pure and 'easy', and could very happily play with a
light subject, either in prose or verse; but when he speculated
on that most difficult and excruciating question, 'The Origin of
Evil,' he ventured far beyond his depth, and, accordingly, was
exPosed by Johnson [in the 'Literary Magazine'), both with acute
argument and brilliant wit."-ED.

(174) "Memoirs of Dr. Burney," vol. iii. p. 169.

(175) Hester Mulso was born in 1727; she married, in 1760, an
attorney named Chapone, who died within a year of the marriage.
Among the many young ladies who surrounded and corresponded with
Samuel Richardson, Hester was a first favourite.  The great
novelist's letters to his "dear Miss Mulso" are very pleasant to
read.  Mrs. Chapone enjoyed considerable esteem as an authoress.
Her "Letters on the Improvement of the Mind," dedicated to Mrs.
Montagu, went through several editions.  We should like to praise
them, but the truth must be owned--they are Vdecidedly
commonplace and "goody-goody."  Still, they are written in a
spirit of tender earnestness, which raises our esteem for the
writer, though it fails to reconcile us to the book.  Mrs.
Chapone died on Christmas-day, 18o1.-ED.

(176) Truly said, "my dear Miss Mulso," but if they cannot feel
the wonderful charm and reality of "Clarissa" in the very first
volume, they may as well leave it alone.-ED.

(177) In a corner of the nave of the quaint little church at
Chesington is a large white marble tablet, marking the spot where
Mr. Crisp lies buried.  The following lines from the pen of
Fanny's father inscribed on it do not, it must be confessed,
exhibit the doctor's poetical talents by any means in a
favourable light.
"In memory Of SAMUEL CRISP, Esq., who died April 24, 1783,
aged 76.

Reader, this cold and humble spot contains
The much lamented, much rever'd remains
Of one whose wisdom, learning, taste, and sense,
Good-humour'd wit and wide benevolence
Cheer'd and enlightened all this hamlet round,
Wherever genius, worth, or want was found.
To few it is that bounteous heav'n imparts
Such depth of knowledge, and such taste in arts
Such penetration, and enchanting pow'rs
Of brit'ning social and convivial hours.
Had he, through life, been blest by nature kind
With health robust of body as of mind,
With skill to serve and charm mankind, so great
In arts, in science, letters, church, or state,
His name the nation's annals had enroll'd
And virtues to remotest ages told.
"C. BURNEY."

(177) Mr, Gibbon, "in stepping too lightly from, or to a boat of
Mr. Cambridge's, had slipt into the Thames; whence, however, he
was intrepidly and immediately rescued, with no other mischief
than a wet jacket, by one of that fearless, water-proof race,
denominated, by Mr. Gibbon, the amphibious family of the
Cambridges." (" Memoir of Dr. Burney," vol. ii. P. 341.)-ED.

(178) The "Essex Head" club, just founded by Dr. Johnson.  The
meetings were held thrice a week at the Essex Head, a tavern in
Essex-street, Strand, kept by Samuel Greaves, an old servant of
Mr. Thrale's.  Among the rule's of the club, which were drawn up
by Dr. Johnson, we find the following: "Every member present at
the club shall spend at least sixpence; and every member who
stays away shall forfeit threepence." He ought to have added, "to
be spen by the company in punch."  (See Goldsmith's delightful
essay on the London clubs.)-ED.

(179) The Lockes, of Norbury Park, Surrey, were friends of
Fanny's sister, Mrs. Phillips, and, subsequently, among the most
constant and attached friends of Fanny herself.-ED.

(180) It must be borne in mind that the , Diary " is addressed to
Fanny's sister Susan (Mrs. Phillips),-ED.

(181) Mrs. Locke.-ED.

(182) Mrs. Phillips had lately gone to live at Boulogne for the
benefit of her health.-ED.

(183) Mrs. Phillips returned in less than a twelvemonth from
Boulogne, much recovered in health, and settled with her husband
and family in a house at MickIcham, at the foot of Norbury Park.

(184) Fanny had called upon Dr. Johnson the same day, but he was
too ill to see her.-ED.

(185) Sunday, December 12.-ED.

(186) Frank Barber, Dr. Johnson's negro servant. -ED.

(187) Mary Bruce Strange, daughter of Sir Robert Strange, the
celebrated engraver.  She died, as Fanny tells us, on the same
day with Dr. Johnson, December 13, 1784, aged thirty-five.  The
Stranges were old and very intimate friends of the Burneys-ED.  I

(188) Her brother-ED.



289
                                 SECTION 6
                                 (1785-6.)

         MISS BURNEY IS FAVOURABLY NOTICED BY THE KING AND QUEEN.

[The pleasantest portion of the following section of the Diary is
that which relates to the growing intimacy between Fanny and Mrs.
Delany.  It was a friendship, however, which proved dear to Fanny
in every sense of the word.  On the one hand the mutual affection
which subsisted between her and a lady in every way so worthy of
her regard, was a source of continual gratification to both ; on
the other hand it was the immediate cause of an event which may
be, without exaggeration, described as the greatest misfortune of
Fanny's life--her ill-starred appointment at Court.  We fully
share Macaulay's indignation at this absurd and singularly
unsuitable appointment.  Its consequences to Fanny were almost
disastrous ; yet the reader will reap the reward of her suffering
in perusing the brilliant pages in which her humour and
penetration have invested with an interest not its own the
frivolous tattle of her commonplace companions.  Her account of
the royal family is on the whole favourable.  The princesses
appear to have been really amiable and, so far as etiquette would
permit, sensible young women.  Of the king and queen we know few
things which are more to their credit than that they should have
been able to inspire Fanny with a regard so obviously sincere.
But even Fanny, with all her loyal partiality, could make no more
of them than a well-meaning couple, whose conversation never rose
above the commonplace.  After all, we can hardly help feeling
that the whole of this CourtDiary, entertaining as it is, would
be well exchanged for the description, in Fanny's animated style,
of a few more dinnerparties at Sir joshua's, a few more
conversations with Edmund Burke.

The burst of exultation with which Fanny's friends greeted the
unhappy appointment says little for their common sense.  Even
Burke, who at least ought to have known better, fell in with the
general infatuation, although he, if no one else felt that the
290

honour was not all on Fanny's side.  He called in St. Martin's-
street, and finding Dr. Burney and his daughter from home, left a
card on which he had written these words :--"Mr. Burke, to
congratulate upon the honour done by the queen to Miss Burney,-
-and to herself."

The office which Fanny shared with that "old hag," Mrs.
Schwellenberg, was that of keeper of the robes, and she entered
upon her new duties in the month Of July, 1786.  Dress had always
been one of the last subjects about which she troubled herself,
and her want of experience in this all-important matter was
graciously taken into consideration by the queen.  The duties of
the place were lightened, or, at least, altered in her favour.
"The difficulties with respect to jewellery, laces, and Court
habiliments, and the other routine business belonging to the
dress manufactory appertained to her colleague, Mrs.
Schwellenberg; the manual labours and cares devolved upon the
wardrobewomen ; while from herself all that officially was
required was assiduous attention, unremitting readiness for every
summons to the dressing- room, not unfrequent long readings, and
perpetual sojourn at the palace."(189)-ED.]


                     ROYAL GENEROSITY TO MRs. DELANY.

(Fanny Burney to Dr. Burney.)
St. James's-place,
Aug. 24.

I must tell you, dearest sir, a tale concerning Mrs. Delany,
which I am sure you will hear with true pleasure.  Among the many
Inferior losses which have been included in her great and
irreparable calamity,(190) has been that of a country house for
the summer, which she ad in Bulstrode, and which for the half of
every year was her constant home.  The Duke of Portland behaved
with the utmost propriety and feeling upon this occasion, and was
most earnest to accommodate her to the best of his power, with
every comfort to which she had been accustomed ; but this noblest
of women declared she loved the memory of her friend beyond all
other things, and would not suffer it to be tainted in the
misjudging world by an action that would be construed into a
reflection upon her will, as if deficient in consideration to
her.  She steadily, therefore,

291

refused all offers, though made to her with even painful
earnestness, and though solicited till her refusal became a
distress to herself

This transaction was related, I believe, to their majesties and
Lady Weymouth, the duchess's eldest daughter, was commissioned to
wait upon Mrs. Delany with this message That the queen was
extremely anxious about her health, and very apprehensive lest
continuing in London during the summer should be prejudicial to
it : she entreated her, therefore, to accept a house belonging to
the king at Windsor, which she should order to be fitted up for
her immediately ; and she desired Lady Weymouth to give her time
to consider this proposal, and by no means to hurry her; as well
as to assure her, that happy as it would make her to have one she
so sincerely esteemed as a neighbour, she should remember her
situation, and promise not to be troublesome to her.  The king,
at the same time, desired to be allowed to stand to the
additional expenses incurred by the maintenance of two houses,
and that Mrs. Delany would accept from him 3oo pounds a year.

It would be needless to tell you how Mrs. Delany was touched by
this benevolence.  Yet she dreaded accepting what she feared
would involve her in a new course of life, and force her into
notice and connexions she wished to drop or avoid.  She took the
time the queen so considerately gave her for deliberation, and
she consulted with some of her old friends.  They all agreed
there must be no refusal, and Lady Weymouth was made the
messenger of her majesty's offer being accepted.

The house, therefore, is now fitting up, and the king sees after
the workmen himself.

A few days ago, Miss Planta(191) was sent from the queen, with
very kind inquiries after Mrs. Delany's health, and information
that she would receive a summons very soon.  She told her, also,
that as the house might still require a longer time in
preparation than would suit Mrs. Delany to wait in London, the
queen had ordered some apartments in the Castle, which lately
belonged to Prince Edward, to be got ready with all speed, that
she might reside in them till her own .house was finished.

This is the state of her affairs.  I am now with her entirely.
At first I slept at home ; but going after supper, and coming

292


before breakfast, was inconvenient, and she has therefore
contrived me a bed-room. . . .

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Locke.)
St. James's-place,
Aug. 29.

All our movements are at present uncertain ; Mrs. Delany,s
Windsor house is still unfinished, but I suppose it will be fit
for her reception by the beginning of next week, and I have the
happiest reasons for hoping she will then be fit for it herself.
Her maid has been to see what forwardness it is in, and this was
her report:--She was ordered to wait Upon Miss Goldsworthy,(192)
by the king's direction, who heard of her being sent to inspect
the house; and there she received commands, in the name of both
king and queen, to see that Mrs. Delany brought with her nothing
but herself and clothes, as they insisted upon fitting up her
habitation with everything themselves, including not only plate,
china, glass, and linen, but even all sort of stores--wine,
sweetmeats, pickles, etc.  Their earnestness to save her every
care, and give her every gratification in their power, is truly
benevolent and amiable.  They seem to know and feel her worth as
if they had never worn crowns, or, wearing, annexed no value to
them.



                          A VISIT TO MRS. DELANY.

Windsor, Saturday, Nov. 25--I got to Hounslow almost at the same
moment with Mrs. Astley, my dear Mrs. Delany's maid, who was sent
to meet me.  As soon as she had satisfied my inquiries concerning
her lady, she was eager to inform Tne that the queen had drunk
tea with Mrs. Delany the day before, and had asked when I should
come, and heard the time; and that Mrs. Delany believed she would
be with her again that evening, and desire to see me.  This was
rather fidgetting intelligence.  I rather, in my own mind,
thought the queen would prefer giving me the first evening alone
with my dear old friend.  I found that sweet lady not so well as
I had hoped, and strongly affected by afflicting recollections at
sight of me.  With all her gentleness and resignation, bursts of
sorrow break from her still whenever we are alone together, for
the Duchess of Portland was a boson' friend to her.

293

Miss Port,(193) who is a truly lovely girl, received me with her
usual warmth of joy, and was most impatient to whisper me that "
all the princesses intended to come and see me."  She is just at
the age to doat upon an ado, and nothing so much delights her as
the thought of my presentations.

Mrs. Delany acquainted me that the queen, in their first
Interview, upon her coming to this house, said to her, " Why did
not you bring your friend Miss Burney with you?"

My dear Mrs. Delany was very much gratified by such an attention
to whatever could be thought interesting to her, but, with her
usual propriety, answered that, in coming to a house of her
majesty's, she could not presume to ask anybody without immediate
and express permission.  "The king, however," she added, "made
the very same inquiry when I saw him next."

Sunday, Nov. 26.-So now the royal encounters, for a while at
least, are out of all question.  Nobody came last night, though
Mrs. Delany I saw, and Miss Port I heard, in continual
expectation; but this morning, Mr. Battiscombe, apothecary to the
household, called, and said that an express arrived from Germany
yesterday afternoon, with an account of the death of the queen's
youngest brother.

The queen, -whose domestic virtues rise upon me every hour, is
strongly attached to all her family, and in much affliction at
this news ; for though this brother was quite a boy when she left
Germany, he has twice been to visit her in, England.  None of the
royal family will appear till the mourning takes place ; the
queen, perhaps, may shut herself up still longer.

At night, quite incog, quite alone, and quite privately, the king
came, and was shut up with Mrs. Delany for an hour.  It is out of
rule for any of the family to be seen till in mourning, but he
knew she was anxious for an account of the queen.  I had a very
narrow escape of being surprised by him, which
would have vexed me, as he only meant to see Mrs. Delany

294

by herself, though she says he told her he was very glad to hear
I was come.


                    ROYAL CURIOSITY ABOUT Miss BURNEY.

Thursday, Dec. 1.-To-day the queen sent Miss Planta to tell Mrs.
Delany that if she would not yet venture to the Lodge, she would
come to her in the evening.  Mrs. Delany accepted the gracious
offer, and, at tea-time, she came, as well as the king, and spent
two hours here.

Mrs. Delany told me afterwards, that the queen was very
low-spirited, and seemed to wish for nothing but the solace of
sitting perfectly quiet.  She is a sweet woman, and has all the
domestic affections warm and strong in her heart.

Nevertheless they talked of me, she says, a good deal - and the
king asked many questions about me.  There is a new play, he told
Mrs. Delany, coming out ; "and it is said to be Miss Burney's!"
Mrs. Delany immediately answered that she knew the report must be
untrue.  "But I hope she is not idle?" cried the king.  "I hope
she is writing something?

What Mrs. Delany said, I know not; but he afterwards inquired
what she thought of my writing a play?

"What," said he, "do you wish about it, Mrs. Delany?"

Mrs. Delany hesitated, and the queen then said,

"I wish what I know Mrs. Delany does--that she may not; for
though her reputation is so high, her character, by all I hear,
is too delicate to suit with writing for the stage."

Sweet queen!  I could have kissed the hem of her garment for that
speech, and I could not resist writing it.

Mrs. Delany then said,

" Why My opinion is what I believe to be Miss Burney's own ; that
It is too public and hazardous a style of writing for her quiet
and fearful turn of mind."

I have really the grace to be a little ashamed of scribbling
this, but I know I can scribble nothing my dear father will be
more curious to hear.

Saturday, Dec- 3-This morning we had better news of the princess
- and Mrs. Delany went again to the Lodge in the evenin, to the
queen.  When Mrs. Delany returned, she confirmed the good
accounts of the Princess Elizabeth's amendment.  She had told the
queen I was going to-morrow to Thames Ditton, for a week; and was
asked many questions about my coming back, which the queen said
she was sure I
295

should be glad to do from Mrs. Walsingham to Mrs. Delany.  O most
penetrating queen!

She gratified Mrs. Delany by many kind speeches, of being sorry I
was going, and glad I was returning, and so forth.  Mrs. Delany
then told her I had been reading "The Clandestine Marriage" to
her, which the queen had recommended, and she thanked her majesty
for the very great pleasure she had received from it.

"O then," cried the queen, "if Miss Burney reads to you, what a
pleasure you must have to make her read her own works!"

Mrs. Delany laughed, and exclaimed,

"O ma'am! read her own works!--your majesty has no notion of Miss
Burney!  I believe she would as soon die!"

This, of course, led to a great deal of discussion, in the midst
of which the queen said,

"Do you know Dr. Burney, Mrs. Delany?

 "Yes, ma'am, extremely well," answered Mrs. Delany.

"I think him," said the queen, "a very agreeable and entertaining
man."

There, my dear father!  said I not well just now, O most
penetrating queen?

So here ends my Windsor journal, part the first.  Tomorrow
morning I go for my week to Thames Ditton.


                      AN ANTICIPATED ROYAL INTERVIEW.

Windsor, Wednesday, Dec. 14-Yesterday I returned to my dear Mrs.
Delany, from Thames Ditton, and had the great concern of finding
her very unwell.  Mr. Bernard Dewes, one of her nephews, and his
little girl, a sweet child of seven years old, were with her,
and, of course, Miss Port.  She had been hurried, though only
with pleasure, and her emotion, first in receiving, and next in
entertaining them, had brought on a little fever.

She revived in the afternoon, and I had the pleasure of reading
to her a play of Shakspeare's, that she had not heard for forty
years, and which I had never read since I was a child,--"The
Comedy of Errors;"--and we found in it all the entertainment
belonging to an excellent farce, and all the objections belonging
to an indifferent play but the spirit with which she enters into
every part of everything she hears, gives a sort of theatric
effect to whatever is read to her; and my spirits rise in her
presence, with the joy of exciting hers.
296

But I am now obliged, by what follows, to confess a little
discussion I have had with my dear Mrs. Delany, almost all the
time I spent with her at first, and now again upon my return,
relative to the royal interview, so long in expectation.

Immediately upon my arrival, she had imagined, by what had
preceded it, that a visit would instantly ensue here, and I
should have a summons to appear ; but the death of the queen's
brother, which was known the very night I came, confined her
majesty and all the family for some days to the Lodge ; and the
dangerous illness of the Princess Elizabeth nexttook place, in
occupying all their thoughts, greatly to their credit.  My dear
old friend, however, earnest I Should have an honour which her
grateful reverence for their majesties makes her regard very
highly, had often wished me to stay in the room when they came to
see her, assuring me that though they were so circumstanced as
not to send for a stranger, she knew they would be much pleased
to meet with me.  This, however, was more than I could assent to,
without infinite pain, and that she was too kind to make a point
of my enduring.

Yesterday, upon my return, she began again the same reasoning;
the Princess Elizabeth had relapsed, and she knew, during her
being worse, there was no chance the queen would take any active
step towards a meeting.  "But she inquires," continued Mrs.
Delany, "so much about you, and is so earnest.  that you should
be with me, that I am sure she wants to see and converse with
you.  You will see her, too, with more ease to yourself by being
already in the room, than from being summoned.  I would not for
the world put this request to you, if I were not sure she wishes
it."

There was no withstanding the word "request" from Mrs. Delany,
and little as I liked the business, I could not but comply.  What
next was to be done, was to beg directions for the rencounter.

Now though you, my dear father, have had an audience, and you, my
dear Susan, are likely enough to avoid one, yet I think the
etiquettes on these occasions will be equally new to you both ;
for one never inquired into them, and the other has never thought
of them.  Here, at Windsor, where more than half the people we
see are belonging to the Court, and where all the rest are trying
to be in the same predicament, the intelligence I have obtained
must be looked upon as accurate, and I shall, therefore give it.,
in full confidence you will
297

both regard it as a valuable addition to your present stock of
Court knowledge, and read it with that decent awe the dignity of
the topic requires!


         DIRECTIONS FOR A PRIVATE ENCOUNTER WITH THE ROYAL FAMILY.

. . . . . To come, then, to those particular instructions I
received myself, and which must not be regarded as having
anything to do with general rules.

"I do beg of you," said dear Mrs. Delany, "When the queen or the
king speak to you, not to answer with mere monosyllables.  The
queen often complains to me of the difficulty with which she can
get any conversation, as she not only always has to start the
subjects, but, commonly, entirely to support them: and she says
there is nothing she so much loves as conversation, and nothing
she finds so hard to get.  She is always best pleased to have the
answers that are made her lead on to further discourse.  Now, as
I know she wishes to be acquainted with you, and converse with
you, I do really entreat you not to draw back from her, nor to
stop conversation with only answering 'Yes,' or 'No.'"

This was a most tremendous injunction; however, I could not but
promise her I would do the best I could.

To this, nevertheless, she readily agreed, that if upon entering
the room, they should take no notice of me, I might quietly
retire.  And that, believe me, will not be very slowlv ! They
cannot find me in this house without knowing who I am, and
therefore they can be at no loss whether to speak to me or not,
from incertitude.


                                 A PANIC.

In the midst of all this, the queen came!

I heard the thunder at the door, and, panic struck, away flew all
my resolutions and agreements, and away after them flew I!

Don't be angry, my dear father--I would have stayed if I could,
and I meant to stay - but, when the moment came, neither my
preparations nor intentions availed, and I arrived at my own
room, ere I well knew I had left the drawing-room, and quite
breathless between the race I ran with Miss Port and the joy of
escaping,
298

Mrs. Delany, though a little vexed at the time, was not
afterwards, when she found the queen very much dispirited by a
relapse of the poor Princess Elizabeth.  She inquired if I was
returned, and hoped I now came to make a longer stay.

Friday, Dec. 16.-Yesterday morning we had a much better account
of the Princess Elizabeth; and Mrs. Delany said to me,

"Now you will escape no longer, for if their uneasiness ceases, I
am sure they will send for you, when they come next."

To be sent for, I confessed to her, would really be more
formidable than to be surprised; but to pretend to be surprise,
would answer no purpose in making the meeting easy to me. and
therefore I preferred letting the   matter take its chance.


                        "THE KING! AUNT, THE KING!"

After dinner, while Mrs. Delany was left alone, as usual, to take
a little rest,--for sleep it but seldom proves,--Mr. B. Dewes,
his little daughter, Miss Port, and myself, went into the
drawing-room.     And here, while, to pass the time, I was
amusing the little girl with teaching her some Christmas games,
in which her father and cousin joined, Mrs. Delany came in. We
were all in the middle of the room, and in some confusion ;--but
she had but just come up to us to inquire what was going
forwards, and I was disentangling myself from Miss Dewes, to be
ready to fly off if any one knocked at the streetdoor, when the
door of the drawing-room was again opened, and a large man, in
deep mourning, appeared at it, entering, and shutting it himself
without speaking.

A ghost could not more have scared me, when I discovered, by its
glitter on the black, a star!    The general disorder had
prevented his being seen, except by myself, who was always on the
watch, till Miss Port, turning round, exclaimed, "The king!--
aunt, the king!"

O mercy! thought I, that I were but out of the room! which way
shall I escape? and how pass him unnoticed?  There is but the
single door at which he entered, in the room!  Every one
scampered out of the way: Miss Port, to stand next the door; Mr.
Bernard Dewes to a corner opposite it; his little girl clung to
me; and Mrs. Delany advanced to meet his majesty, who, after
quietly looking on till she saw him, approached, and inquired how
she did,
299

He then spoke to Mr. Bernard, whom he had already met two or
three times here.

I had now retreated to the wall, and purposed gliding softly,
though speedily, out of the room ; but before I had taken a
single step, the king, in a loud whisper to Mrs. Delany, said, "
Is that Miss Burney ? "-and on her answering, " Yes, sir," he
bowed, and with a countenance of the most perfect good humour,
came close up to me.

A most profound reverence on my part arrested the progress of my
intended retreat.

"How long have you been come back, Miss Burney?"

"Two days, sir."

Unluckily he did not hear me, and repeated his question and
whether the second time he heard me or not, I don't know, but he
made a little civil inclination of his head, and went back to
Mrs. Delany.

He insisted she should sit down, though he stood himself, and
began to give her an account of the Princess Elizabeth, who once
again was recovering, and trying, at present, James's powders.
She had been blooded, he said, twelve times in this last
fortnight, and had lost seventy-five ounces of blood, besides
undergoing blistering and other discipline.  He spoke of her
illness with the strongest emotion, and seemed quite filled with
concern for her danger and suffering.

Mrs. Delany next inquired for the younger children.  They had
all, he said, the whooping-cough, and were soon to be removed to
Kew.

"Not," added he, " for any other reason than change of air for
themselves ; though I am pretty certain I have never had the
distemper myself, and the queen thinks she has not had it either
:--we shall take our chance.  When the two eldest had it, I sent
them away, and would not see them till it was over; but now there
are so many of them that there would be no end to separations, so
I let it take its course."

Mrs. Delany expressed a good deal of concern at his running this
risk, but he laughed at it, and said, he was much more afraid of
catching the rheumatism, which has been threatening one of his
shoulders lately, However, he added, he should hunt, the next
morning, in defiance of it.

A good deal of talk then followed about his own health, and the
extreme temperance by which he preserved it.  The fault of his
constitution, he said, was a tendency to excessive fat,
300

which e kept, however, in order, by the most vigorous exercise
and the strictest attention to a simple diet.

Mrs. Delany was beginning to praise his forbearance, but he
stopped her.

"NO, no," he cried, " 'tis no virtue ; I only prefer eating plain
and little to growing diseased and infirm."

During this discourse, I stood quietly In the place where he had
first spoken to me.  His quitting me so soon, and conversing
freely and easily with Mrs. Delany, proved so delightful a relief
to me, that I no longer wished myself away; and the moment my
first panic from the surprise was over, I diverted myself with a
thousand ridiculous notions, of my own Situation.

The Christmas games we had been showing Miss Dewes, it seemed as
if we were still performing, as none of us thought it ) proper to
move, though our manner of standing reminded one of "Puss in the
corner."  Close to the door was posted Miss Port; opposite her,
close to the wainscot, stood Mr. Dewes; at just an equal distance
from him, close to a window, stood myself Mrs. Delany, though
seated, was at the opposite side to Miss Port; and his majesty
kept pretty much in the middle of the room.  The little girl, who
kept close to me, did not break the order, and I could hardly
help expecting to be beckoned, with a PUSS! PUSS! PUSS! to change
places with one of my neighbours.

This idea, afterwards, gave way to another more pompous.  It
seemed to me we were acting a play.  There is something so little
like common and real life, in everybody's standing, while
talking, in a room full of chairs, and standing, too, so aloof
from each other, that I almost thought myself upon a stage,
assisting in the representation of a tragedy,--in which the king
played his own part, of the king; Mrs. Delany that of a venerable
confidante; Mr. Dewes, his respectful attendant;Miss Port, a
suppliant Virgin, waiting encouragement to bring forward some
petition; Miss Dewes, a young orphan, intened to move the royal
compassion; and myself,--a very solemn, sober, and decent mute.

These fancies, however, only regaled me while I continued a quiet
spectator, and without expectation of being called into play.
Butt the king, I have reason to think, meant only to give me time
to recover from my first embarrassment; and I feel infinitely
obliged to his good breeding and consideration, which perfectly
answered, for before he returned to me, I was entirely recruited,
301`

To go back to my narration.

When the discourse upon health and strength was over, the king
went up to the table, and looked at a book of prints, from Claude
Lorraine, which had been brought down for Miss Dewes; but Mrs.
Delany, by mistake, told him they were for me.  He turned over a
leaf or two, and then said--

"Pray, does Miss Burney draw, too?"

The too was pronounced very civilly.

"I believe not, Sir," answered Mrs. Delany "at least, she does
not tell."

"Oh!" cried he, laughing, "that's nothing; she is not apt to
tell! she never does tell, you know!--Her father told me that
himself.  He told me the whole history of her 'Evelina.'  And I
shall never forget his face when he spoke of his feelings at
first taking up the book!--he looked quite frightened, just as if
he was doing it that moment!  I never can forget his face while I
live!"


               THE KING CATEGORICALLY QUESTIONS Miss BURNEY.

Then coming up close to me, the king said-

"But what?--what?--how was it?"

"Sir"--cried I, not well understanding him.

"How came you--how happened it--what?--what?"

"I--I only wrote, Sir, for my own amusement,--only in some odd,
idle hours."

"But your publishing--your printing,--how was that?

"That was only, sir,--only because--"

I hesitated most abominably, not knowing how to tell him a long
story, and growing terribly confused at these questions;--
besides,--to say the truth, his own "what? what? " so reminded me
of those vile "Probationary Odes," that, in the midst of all my
flutter, I was really hardly able to keep my countenance.

The What! was then repeated, with so earnest a look, that, forced
to say something, I stammeringly answered--

"I thought-sir-it would look very well in print!" '


I do really flatter myself this is the silliest speech I ever
made!  I am quite provoked with myself for it; but a fear of
laughing made me eager to utter anything, and by no means
conscious, till I had spoken, of what I was saying.  He laughed
very heartily himself,--well he might--and walked away to enjoy
it, crying out,

302

"Very fair indeed! that's being very fair and honest

Then, returning to me again, he said,

"But your father--how came you not to show him what you wrote?"

"I was too much ashamed of it, sir, seriously."

Literal truth that, I am sure.

"And how did he find it out?

"I don't know myself, sir.  He never would tell me."

Literal truth again, my dear father, as you can testify.

"But how did you get it printed?"

"I sent it, sir, to a bookseller my father never employed, and
that I never had seen myself, Mr. Lowndes, in full hope by that
means he never would hear of it."

"But how could you manage that?"

"By means of a brother, sir."

"O!--you confided in a brother, then?"

"Yes, sir,--that is, for the publication."

"What entertainment you must have had from hearing people's
conjectures, before you were known!  Do you remember any of
them?"

"Yes, sir, many."

"And what?"

"I heard that Mr. Baretti(194) laid a wager it was written by a
man for no woman, he said, could have kept her own counsel."

This diverted him extremely.

"But how was it," he continued, "you thought most likely for your
father to discover you?"

"Sometimes, sir, I have supposed I must have dropt some of the
manuscript; sometimes, that one of my sisters betrayed me."

"O! your sister?--what, not your brother?"

"No, sir; he could not, for--"


I was going on, but he laughed so much I could not be heard,
exclaiming,

"Vastly well! I see you are of Mr. Baretti's'mind, and

303

think your brother could keep your secret, and not your sister?"

"Well, but," cried he presently, "how was it first known to you,
you were betrayed?"

"By a letter, sir, from another sister.  I was very ill, and in
the country; and she wrote me word that my father had taken up a
review, in which the book was mentioned, and had put his finger
upon its name, and said--'Contrive to get that book for me.'"

"And when he got it," cried the king, "he told me he was afraid
of looking at it! and never can I forget his face when he
mentioned his first opening it.  But you have not kept your pen
unemployed all this time?"

"Indeed I have, sir."

"But why?"

"I--I believe I have exhausted myself, sir."

He laughed aloud at this, and went and told it to Mrs. Delany,
civilly treating a plain fact as a mere bon mot.

Then, turning to me again, he said, more seriously, "But you have
not determined against writing, any more?"

"N-o, sir"

"You have made no vow--no real resolution of that sort?"

"No, sir."

"You only wait for inclination""

"No, sir."

A very civil little bow spoke him pleased with this answer, and
he went again to the middle of the room, where he chiefly stood,
and, addressing us in general, talked upon the different motives
of writing, concluding with,

"I believe there is no constraint to be put upon real genius;
nothing but inclination can set it to work.  Miss Burney,
however, knows best." And then, hastily returning to me, he
cried, "What? what?"


"No, sir, I--I-believe not, certainly," quoth I, very awkwardly,
for I seemed taking a violent compliment only as my due; but I
knew not how to put him off as I would another person.

He then made some inquiries concerning the pictures with which
the room is hung, and which are all Mrs. Delany's own painting
and a little discourse followed, upon some of the masters whose
pictures she has copied.  This was all with her; for nobody ever
answers him without being immediately addressed by him.
304

He then came to me again, and said,

"Is your father about anything at present?"

"Yes, sir, he goes on, when he has time, with his history."

"Does he write quick?"

"Yes, sir, when he writes from himself; but in his history he has
so many books to consult, that sometimes he spends' three days in
finding authorities for a single passage."

"Very true ; that must be unavoidable."  He pursued these
inquiries some time, and then went again to his general station
before the fire, and Mrs. Delany inquired if he meant to hunt the
next day.  "Yes," he answered; and, a little.pointedly, Mrs.
Delany said,

"I would the hunted could but feel as much pleasure as the
hunter."

The king understood her, and with some quickness, called out,
"Pray what did you hunt ?"

Then, looking round at us all,--

"Did you know," he said, "that Mrs. Delany once hunted herself?--
and in a long gown, and a great hoop?"

It seems she had told his majesty an adventure of that sort which
had befallen her in her youth, from some accident in which her
will had no share.


                     THE QUEEN APPEARS UPON THE SCENE.

While this was talking over, a violent thunder was made at the
door.  I was almost certain it was the queen.  Once more I would
have given anything to escape ; but in vain.  I had been informed
that nobody ever quitted the royal presence, after having been
conversed with, till motioned to withdraw.

Miss Port, according to established etiquette on these occasions,
opened the door which she stood next, by putting her hand behind
her, and slid out, backwards, into the hall, to light the queen
'In.  The door soon opened again, and her majesty entered.

Immediately seeing the king, she made him a low curtsey, and
cried,--

"Oh, your majesty is here."


"Yes," he cried, "I ran here, without speaking to anybody."

The queen had been at the lower Lodge, to see the Princess
Elizabeth, as the king had before told us.

She then, hastened up to Mrs. Delany, with both her hands held
out, saying,
305

"My dear Mrs. Delany, how are you?"

Instantly after, I felt her eye on my face.  I believe, too, she
curtsied to me; but though I saw the bend, I was too near-sighted
to be sure it was intended for me.  I was hardly ever in a
situation more embarrassing - I dared not return what I was not
certain I had received, yet considered myself as appearing quite
a monster, to stand stiff-necked, if really meant.

Almost at the same moment, she spoke to Mr. Bernard Dewes, and
then nodded to my little clinging girl.

I was now really ready to sink, with horrid uncertainty of what I
was doing, or what I should do,--when his majesty, who I fancy
saw my distress, most good-humouredly said to the queen
something, but I was too much flurried to remember what, except
these words,--"I have been telling Miss Burney--"

Relieved from so painful a dilemma, I immediately dropped a
curtsey.  She made one to me in the same moment, and, with a very
smiling countenance, came up to me; but she could not speak, for
the king went on talking, eagerly, and very gaily, repeating to
her every word I had said during our conversation upon "Evelina,"
its publication, etc. etc.

Then he told her of Baretti's wager, saying,--"But she heard of a
great many conjectures about the author, before it was known, and
of Baretti, an admirable thing !-he laid a bet it must be a man,
as no woman, he said, could have kept her own counsel!"

The queen, laughing a little, exclaimed-

"Oh, that is quite too bad an affront to us !-Don't you think
so?" addressing herself to me, with great gentleness of voice and
manner.

I assented; and the king continued his relation, which she
listened to with a look of some interest; but when he told her
some particulars of my secrecy, she again spoke to me.

"But! your sister was your confidant, was she not?"

"Yes, ma'am."

My sisters, I might have said, but I was always glad to have
done.

"Oh, yes!" cried the king, laughing "but I assure you she is of
Baretti's opinion herself; for I asked her if she thought it was
her sister or her brother that betrayed her to her father?--and
she says her sister, she thinks."


Poor Esther !-but I shall make her amends by what follows; for
the queen, again addressing me, said--
306

"But to betray to a father is no crime-don't you think so ?"

I agreed ; and plainly saw she thought Esther, if Esther it was,
had only done right.

The king then went on, and when he had finished his narration the
queen took her seat.  She made Mrs. Delany sit next her, and Miss
Port brought her some tea.



              "Miss BURNEY PLAYS-BUT NOT TO ACKNOWLEDGE IT."

The king, meanwhile, came to me again, and said,--"Are you
musical?"  "Not a performer, sir."

Then, going from me to the queen, he cried,--"She does not play."
I did not hear what the queen answered - she spoke in a low
voice, and seemed much out of spirits.

They now talked together a little while, about the Princess
Elizabeth, and the king mentioned having had a very promising
account from her physician, Sir George Baker and the queen soon
brightened up.

The king then returned to me and said,-

"Are you sure you never play?--never touch the keys at all."

"Never to acknowledge it, sir."

"Oh ! that's it ! " cried he; and flying to the queen, cried,
"She does play-but not to acknowledge it!"

I was now in a most horrible panic once more ; pushed so very
home, I could answer no other than I did, for these categorical
questions almost constrain categorical answers; and here, at
Windsor, it seems an absolute point that whatever they ask must
be told, and whatever they desire must be done.  Think but, then,
of my consternation, in expecting their commands to perform!  My
dear father, pity me!

The eager air with which he returned to me fully explained what
was to follow.  I hastily, therefore, spoke first, in order to
stop him, crying-" I never, sir, played to anybody but myself!--
never!"

"No ?" cried he, looking incredulous; "what, not to

"Not even to me, sir! " cried my kind Mrs. Delany, who saw what
was threatening me.


"No?--are you sure?" cried he, disappointed; "but--but you'll--"

"I have never, sir," cried I, very earnestly, "played in my
307

life, but when I could hear nobody else-quite alone, and from a
mere love of any musical sounds."

He repeated all this to the queen, whose answers I never heard;
but when he once more came back, with a face that looked
unwilling to give it up, in my fright I had recourse to dumb
show, and raised my hands in a supplicating fold, with a most
begging countenance to be excused.  This, luckily, succeeded; he
understood me very readily, and laughed a little, but made a sort
of desisting, or rather complying, little bow, and said no more
about it.

I felt very much obliged to him, for I saw his curiosity was all
alive, I wished I could have kissed his hand.  He still, however,
kept me in talk, and still upon music.

"To me," said he, " it appears quite as strange to meet with
people who have no ear for music, and cannot distinguish one air
from another, as to meet with people who are dumb.  Lady Bell
Finch once told me that she had heard there was some difference
between a psalm, a minuet, and a country dance, but she declared
they all sounded alike to her!  There are people who have no eye
for difference of colour.  The Duke of Marlborough actually
cannot tell scarlet from green!"

He then told me an anecdote of his mistaking one of those colours
for another, which was very laughable, but I do not remember it
clearly enough to write it.  How unfortunate for true virtuosi
that such an eye should possess objects worthy the most
discerning--the treasures of Blenheim! " I do not find, though,"
added his majesty, "that this defect runs in his family, for Lady
Di Beauclerk, draws very finely."

He then went to Mr. Bernard Dewes.

Almost instantly upon his leaving me, a very gentle voice called
out-" Miss Burney!"

It was the queen's.  I walked a little nearer her, and a gracious
inclination of her head made me go quite up to her.

"You have been," she said, "at Mrs. Walsingham's?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"She has a pretty place, I believe?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Were You ever there before?"

"Yes, ma'am."

Oh, shocking! shocking ! thought I ; what will"Mrs. Delany say to
all these monosyllables ?

"Has not she lately made some improvements?"

"Yes, ma'am; she has built a conservatory."
308

Then followed some questions about its situation, during which
the king came up to us; and she then, ceasing to address me in
particular, began a general sort of conversation, with a spirit
and animation that I had not at all expected, and which seemed
the result of the great and benevolent pleasure she took in
giving entertainment to Mrs. Delany.


                       A DRAWING-ROOM DURING A FOG.

The subject was the last Drawing-room, which she had been in town
to keep on Thursday, during the dense fog.

"I assure you, ma'am," cried she to Mrs. Delany, "it was so dark,
there was no seeing anything, and no knowing any body.  And Lady
Harcourt could be of no help to tell me who people were, for when
it was light, she can't see and now it was dark, I could not see
myself.  So it was in vain for me to go on in that manner,
without knowing which I had spoken to, and which was waiting for
me; so I said to Lady Harcourt, 'We had better stop, and stand
quite still, for I don't know anybody, no more than you do.  But
if we stand still, they will all come up in the end, and we must
ask them who they are, and if I have spoken to them yet, or not:
for it is very odd to do it, but what else can we manage?'"

Her accent is a little foreign, and very prettily so ; and her
emphasis has that sort of changeability, which gives an interest
to everything she utters. But her language is rather peculiar
than foreign.

"'Besides,"' added she, with a very significant look, "'if we go
on here in the dark, maybe I shall push against somebody, or
somebody will push against me--which is the more likely to
happen.'"

She then gave an account of some circumstances which attended the
darkness, in a manner not only extremely lively, but mixed, at
times, with an archness and humour that made it very
entertaining.  She chiefly addressed herself to Mrs. Delany ; and
to me, certainly, she would not, separately, have been so
communicative; but she contrived, with great delicacy, to include
me in the little party, by frequently looking at me, and always
with an expression that invited my participation in the
conversation.  And, indeed, though I did not join in words, I
shared very openly in the pleasure of her recital.

"well," she continued, "so there was standing by me a man that I
could not see in the face; but I saw the twisting of his
309

bow; and I said to Lady Harcourt, 'I am sure that must be nobody
but the Duke of Dorset.'--'Dear,' she says, 'how can you tell
that?'--'Only ask,' said I; and so it proved he."


"Yes," cried the king, "he is pretty well again; he can smile
again, now!"

It seems his features had appeared to be fixed, or stiffened.  It
is said, he has been obliged to hold his hand to his mouth, to
hide it, ever since his stroke,--which he refuses to acknowledge
was paralytic.

The queen looked as if some comic notion had struck her, and,
after smiling a little while to herself, said, with a sort of
innocent archness, very pleasing,

"To be sure, it is very wrong to laugh at such things,--I know
that; but yet, I could not help thinking, when his mouth was in
that way, that it was very lucky people's happiness did not
depend upon his smiles!"

Afterwards, she named other persons, whose behaviour and manners
pointed them out to her, in defiance of obscurity.

"A lady," said she, "came up to me, that I could not see, so I
was forced to ask who she was; and immediately she burst into a
laugh.  'O,' says I, 'that can be only Mrs. De Rolles!'--and so
it proved."

Methinks, by this trait, she should be a near relation to my Miss
Larolles!(195)


WILL Miss BURNEY WRITE ANY MORE?

When these, and some more anecdotes which I do not so clearly
remember, were told, the king left us, and went to Mr. Bernard
Dewes.  A pause ensuing, I, too, drew back, meaning to return to
my original station, which, being opposite the fire, was never a
bad one.  But the moment I began retreating, the queen, bending
forward, and speaking in a very low voice, said, "Miss Burney!"--
and, upon my coming up to her, almost in a whisper, cried, "But
shall we have no more--nothing more?"

I could not but understand her, and only shook my head.  The
queen then, as if she thought she had said too much, with great
sweetness and condescension, drew back herself, and, very
delicately, said,

"To be sure it is, I own, a very home question, for one who has
not the pleasure to know you."

I was quite ashamed of this apology, but did not know

310

what to say to it.  But how amiable a simplicity in her speaking
of herself in such a style,- for one who has not the ,pleasure to
know you."

"But, indeed," continued she, presently, "I would not say it,
only that I think from what has been done, there is a power to do
so much good--and good to young people, which is so very good a
thing--that I cannot help wishing it could be."

I felt very grateful for this speech, and for the very soft
manner in which she said it ; and I very much wished to thank her
and was trying to mutter something, though not very intelligibly,
when the king suddenly coming up to us, inquired what was going
forward.

The queen readily repeated her kind speech.

The king eagerly undertook to make my answer for me, crying, "O,
but she will write!--she only waits for inclination--she told me
so." Then, speaking to me, he said, "What--is it not so?"

I only laughed a little; and he again said to the queen,

"She will write.  She told me, just now, she had made no vow
against It."

"No, no," cried the queen, "I hope not, indeed."

"A vow!"  cried dear Mrs. Delany, "no, indeed, I hope she would
not be so wicked--she who can so do what she does!"

"But she has not," said the king, earnestly; "she has owned that
to me already."

What excessive condescension, my dear padre!

"I only wish," cried Mrs. Delany, "it could be as easily done, as
it is earnestly and universally desired."

"I doubt it not to be so desired," said the queen.

I was quite ashamed of all this, and quite sorry to make no
icknowledgment of their great condescension in pressing such
subject, and pressing it so much in earnest.  But I really could
get out nothing, so that's the truth; and I wish I could give a
better account of my eloquence, my dear padre and I cannot,
however, in justice any more than in inclination, go on, till I
stop to admire the sweetness of the queen, and the consideration
of the king, in each making me a party in their general
conversation, before they made any particular address to me.
311

                       A MUSICIAN, WITH A PROBOSCIS.

They afterwards spoke of Mr. Webb, a Windsor musician, who is
master to the young princesses, and who has a nose, from some
strange calamity, of so enormous a size that it covers all.  the
middle of his face.  I never saw so frightful a deformity.  Mrs.
Delany told the queen I had met with him, accidentally, when he
came to give a lesson to Miss Port, and had been quite startled
by him.

"I dare say so," said her majesty.  "I must tell Miss Burney a
little trait of Sophia, about Mr. Webb."

A small table was before the queen, who always has it brought
when she is seated, to put her tea or work upon, or, when she has
neither, to look comfortable, I believe ; for certainly it takes
off much formality in a standing circle.  And close to this, by
the gracious motion of her head, she kept me.

"When first," continued she, "Mr. Webb was to come to Sophia, I
told her he had had some accident to disfigure his whole face, by
making him an enormous nose; but I desired her to remember this
was a misfortune, for which he ought to be pitied, and that she
must be sure not to laugh at it, nor stare at it.  And she minded
this very well, and behaved always very properly.  But, while
Lady Cremorne was at the Lodge, she Was with Sophia when Mr. Webb
came to give her a lesson.  As soon as he was named, she coloured
very red, and ran up to Lady Cremorne, and said to her in a
whisper, 'Lady Cremorne, Mr. Webb has got a very great nose, but
that is only to be pitied --so mind you don't laugh.'"

This little princess is just nine years old!

The king joined us while the queen was telling this, and added,
"Poor Mr. Webb was very much discountenanced when he first saw
me, and tried to hide his nose, by a great nosegay, or I believe
only a branch, which he held before it: but really that had so
odd a look, that it was worse, and more ridiculous, than his
nose.  However, I hope he does not mind me, now, for I have seen
him four or five times."


GENERAL CONVERSATION: ROYALTY DEPARTS.

After this, Mrs. Delany mentioned Madame de la Fite and her son.

The queen said, "He is a pretty little boy; and when be goes to
school, it will do him 'good,"
312

" Where will she send him ? " said the king.

The queen, looking at me, with a smile answered,
"To the school where Mr. Locke puts his sons.  I know that!"

"And where is that?"

"Indeed I don't know; where is it, Miss Burney?"

"At Cheam, ma'am."

"Oh, at young Gilpin's?" cried the king. "Is it near Mr.
Locke's?"

"Yes, sir; within about six miles, I believe."

The queen, then, with a little arch smile, that seemed to premise
she should make me stare, said,

"It was there, at Mr. Locke's, your sister(196) laid in?"

"O yes, ma'am!" cried I, out of breath with surprise.

The king repeated my "O yes!" and said, "I fancy--by that O --you
were frightened a little for her?  What?"

I could not but assent to that; and the king, who seemed a good
deal diverted at the accident--for he loves little babies too
well to look upon it, as most people would, to be a shocking
business--questioned me about it.

"How was it?" said he,--"how happened it?  Could not she get
home?"

"It was so sudden, sir, and so unexpected, there was no time."

"I dare say," said the sweet queen, "Mrs. Locke was only
veryhappy to have it at her house."

"Indeed, ma'am," cried I, "her kindness, and Mr. Locke's would
make anybody think so      but they are all kindness and
ggoodness."

"I have heard indeed," said the queen, "that they are all
sensible, and amiable, and ingenuous, in that family."

"They are indeed," cried I, "and as exemplary as they are
accomplished."

"I have never seen Mrs. Locke," said the king, "since she was
that high;"--pointing to little Miss Dewes.


"And I," said the queen "I have never seen her in my life; but
for all that, from what I hear of her, I cannot help feeling
interested whenever I only hear her name."

This, with a good deal of animation, she said directly to me.

"Mr. William Locke, ma'am," said Mrs. Delany, "I understand from
Miss Burney, is now making the same wonderful progress in
painting that he had done before in drawing,"

313

"I have seen some of his drawings," said the queen, "which were
charming."

" How old is he?" cried the king.

"Eighteen, sir."

"Eighteen!" repeated the king--"how time flies!"

"Oh! for me," cried the queen, "I am always quarrelling with
time!  It is so short to do something, and so long to do
nothing."

She has now and then something foreign to our idiom, that has a
very pretty effect.

"Time," said the king, "always seems long when we are young, and
short when we begin to grow old."

"But nothing makes me so angry," said the queen, "as to
hear people not know what to do!  For me, I never have half time
enough to do things.  But what makes me most angry still, is to
see people go up to a window and say, 'what a bad day!--dear,
what shall we do such a day as this?'  'What?'  I say; 'why,
employ yourselves; and then what signifies the bad day?'"

Afterwards, there was some talk upon sermons, and the queen
wished the Bishop of Chester would publish another volume.

"No, no," said the king, "you must not expect a man, while he
continues preaching, to go on publishing.  Every sermon printed,
diminishes his stock for the pulpit."

"Very true," said the queen, "but I believe the Bishop of Chester
has enough to spare."

The king then praised Carr's sermons, and said he liked none but
what were plain and unadorned.

"Nor I neither," said the queen; "but for me, it is, I suppose,
because the others I don't understand."


The king then, looking at his watch, said, "It is eight o'clock,
and ]If we don't go now, the children will be sent to the other
house."

"Yes, your majesty," cried the queen, instantly rising.

Mrs. Delany put on her majesty's cloak, and she took a very kind
leave of her.  She then curtsied separately to us all, and the
king handed her to the carriage.

It is the custom for everybody they speak to to attend them out,
but they would not suffer Mrs. Delany to move.  Miss Port, Mr.
Dewes, and his little daughter, and myself, all accompanied them,
and saw them in their coach, and received their last gracious
nods.
314

When they were gone, Mrs. Delany confessed she had heard the
king's knock at the door before she came into the drawinroom, but
would not avow it, that I might not run away.  Well ! being over
was so good a thing, that I could not but be content.

The queen, indeed, is a most charming woman.  She appears to me
full of sense and graciousness, mingled with delicacy of mind and
liveliness of temper.  She speaks English almost perfectly well,
with great choice and copiousness of language, though now and
then with foreign idiom, and frequently with a foreign accent.
Her manners have an easy dignity, with a most engaging
simplicity, and she has all that fine high breeding which the
mind, not the station, gives, of carefully avoiding to distress
those who converse with her, or studiously removing the
embarrassment she cannot prevent.

The king, however he may have power, in the cabinet, to command
himself, has, in private, the appearance of a character the most
open and sincere.  He speaks his opinions without reserve, and
seems to trust them intuitively to his hearers, from a belief
they will make no ill use of them.  His countenance is full of
inquiry, to gain information without asking it, probably from
believing that to be the nearest road to truth.  All I saw of
both was the most perfect good humour, good spirits, ease, and
pleasantness.

Their behaviour to each other speaks the most cordial confidence
and happiness.  The king seems to admire as much as he enjoys her
conversation, and to covet her participation in everything he
either sees or hears.  The queen appears to feel the most
grateful regard for him, and to make it her chief study to raise
his consequence with others, by always marking that she considers
herself, though queen to the nation, only to him, the first and
most obedient of subjects.  Indeed, in their different ways, and
allowing for the difference of their characters, they left me
equally charmed both with their behaviour to each other and to
myself.


                   THE KING AGAIN: TEA TABLE ETIQUETTE.

Monday, Dec. 19-In the evening, while Mrs. Delany, Miss Port, and
I were sitting and working together in the drawing-room, the door
was opened, and the king entered.

We all started up; Miss Port flew to her modest post by the door,
and I to my more comfortable one opposite the fire,
315
.
which caused me but a slight and gentle retreat, and Mrs. Delany
he immediately commanded to take her own place again.

He was full of joy for the Princess Elizabeth.  He had been to
the lower Lodge, and found her in a sweet sleep, and she was now,
he said, in a course of James's powders, from which he hoped her
perfect restoration.  I fear, however, it is still but
precarious.

Mrs. Delany congratulated him, and then inquired after the
whooping-cough.  The children, he said, were better, and were
going to Kew for some days, to change the air.  He and the queen
had been themselves, in the morning, to Kew, to see that their
rooms were fit for their reception.  He could not, he said, be
easy to take any account but from his own eyes, when they were
sick.  He seems, indeed, one of the most tender fathers in the
world.

I cannot pretend to write this meeting with the method and
minuteness of the first ; for that took me so long, that I have
not time to spare for such another detail.  Besides the novelty
is now over, and I have not the same inducement to be so very
circumstantial.  But the principal parts of the conversation I
will write, as I recollect.

Our party being so small, he made all that passed general; for
though he principally addressed himself to Mrs. Delany, he always
looked round to see that we heard him, and frequently referred to
us.

I should mention, though, the etiquette always observed upon his
entrance, which, first of all, is to fly off to distant quarters
- and next, Miss Port goes out, walking backwards, for more
candles, which she brings in, two at a time, and places upon the
tables and pianoforte.  Next she goes out for tea, which she then
carries to his majesty, upon a large salver, containing sugar,
cream, and bread and butter, and cake, while she hangs a napkin
over her arm for his fingers.

When he has taken his tea, she returns to her station, where she
waits till he has done, and then takes away his cup, and fetches
more.  This, it seems, is a ceremony performed in other places
always by the mistress of the house; but here neither of their
majesties will permit Mrs. Delany to attempt it.

Well; but to return.  The king said he had just been looking over
a new pamphlet, of Mr. Cumberland's, upon the character of Lord
Sackville,                                                        316

I have been asking Sir George Baker," he said, "if he had read
it, and he told me, yes, but that he could not find out why
Cumberland had written it.  However, that, I think, I found out
in the second page.  For there he takes an opportunity to give a
high character of himself."

He then enlarged more upon the subject, very frankly declaring in
what points he differed from Mr. Cumberland about Lord Sackville;
but as I neither knew him, nor had read the pamphlet, I could not
at all enter into the subject.

Mrs. Delany then mentioned something of Madame de Genlis,(197)
upon which the king eagerly said to me,

"Oh, you saw her while she was here?"

"Yes, sir."

"And--did she speak English?"

"Yes, sir."

"And how?"

"Extremely well, sir; with very great facility."

"Indeed? that always surprises me in a foreigner that has not
lived here."

Her accent is foreign, however ; but her language is remarkably
ready.

He then spoke of Voltaire, and talked a little of his works,
concluding with this strong condemnation of their tendency:--

"I," cried he, "think him a monster, I own it fairly."

Nobody answered.  Mrs. Delany did not quite hear him, and I knew
too little of his works to have courage to say anything about
them.

He next named Rousseau, whom he seemed to think of with more
favour, though by no means with approbation, Here, too, I had
read too little to talk at all, though his majesty frequently
applied to me.  Mrs. Delany told several anecdotes which had come
to her immediate knowledge of him while he was in England, at
which time he had spent some days with her brother, Mr.
Granville, at Calwich.  The king, too, told others, which had
come to his own ears, all charging him with savage pride and
Insolent ingratitude.

 317


Here, however, I ventured to interfere ; for, as I knew he had
had a pension from the king, I could not but wish his majesty
should be informed he was grateful to him.  And as you, my dear
father, were my authority, I thought it but common justice to the
memory of poor Rousseau to acquaint the king of his personal
respect for him.

"Some gratitude, sir," said I, "he was not without.  When my
father was in Paris, which was after Rousseau had been in
England, he visited him in his garret, and the first thing he
showed him was your majesty's portrait over his chimney."

The king paused a little while upon this ; but nothing more was
said of Rousseau.


                    GEORGE III.  ON PLAYS AND PLAYERS.

Some time afterwards, the king said he found by the newspapers,
that Mrs. Clive(198) was dead.

Do you read the newspapers? thought I.  O, king! you must then
have the most unvexing temper in the world, not to run wild.

This led on to more players.  He was sorry, he said, for
Henderson,(199) and the more as Mrs. Siddons had wished to have
him play at the same house with herself.  Then Mrs. Siddons took
her turn, and with the warmest praise.

"I am an enthusiast for her," cried the king, "quite an
enthusiast, I think there was never any player in my time so
excellent--not Garrick himself--I own it!"

Then, coming close to me, who was silent, he said,--"What?
what?"--meaning, what say you? But I still said nothing; I could
not concur where I thought so differently, and to enter into an
argument was quite impossible; for every little thing I said, the
king listened to with an eagerness that made me always ashamed of
its insignificancy.  And, indeed, but for that I should have
talked to him with much greater fluency, as well as ease.

>From players he went to plays, and complained of the great

318

want of good modern comedies, and of the extreme immorality of
most of the old ones.

And they pretend," cried he, " to mend them; but it is not
possible.  Do you think it is?--what?"

"No, sir, not often, I believe ;-the fault, commonly, lies in the
very foundation."

"Yes, or they might mend the mere speeches --but the characters
are all bad from the beginning to the end."

Then he specified several; but I had read none of them, and
consequently could say nothing about the matter -till, at last,
he came to Shakspeare.

"Was there ever," cried he, "such stuff as great part of
Shakspeare only one must not say so!  But what think you?--
What?--Is there not sad stuff? what?--what?"

"Yes, indeed, I think so, sir, though mixed with such
excellences, that----"

"O!" cried he, laughing good-humouredly, "I know it is not to be
said! but it's true.  Only it's Shakspeare, and nobody dare abuse
him."

Then he enumerated many of the characters and parts of plays that
he objected to - and when he had run them over, finished with
again laughing, and exclaiming,

"But one should be stoned for saying so!"

"Madame de Genlis, sir," said I, "had taken such an impression of
the English theatre, that she told me she thought no woman ought
to go to any of our comedies."

This, which, indeed, is a very overstrained censure of our
dramas, made him draw back, and vindicate the stage from a
sentence so severe ; which, however, she had pronounced to me, as
if she looked upon it to be an opinion in which I should join as
a thing past dispute.

The king approved such a denunciation no more than his little
subject; and he vindicated the stage from so hard an aspersion,
with a warmth not wholly free from indignation.

This led on to a good deal more dramatic criticism; but what was
said was too little followed up to be remembered for writing.
His majesty stayed near two hours, and then wished Mrs. Delany
good night, and having given me a bow, shut the door himself, to
prevent Mrs. Delany, or even me, from attending him out, and,
with only Miss Port to wait upon him, put on his own great coat
in the passage, and walked away to the lower Lodge, to see the
Princess Elizabeth, without carriage
319

or attendant.  He is a pattern of modest, but manly superiority
to'rank.  I should say more of this evening, and of the king,
with whose unaffected conversation and unassuming port and manner
I was charmed, but that I have another meeting to write,-a long,
and, to me, very delightful private conference with the queen.
It happened the very next morning.


                      LITERARY TALK WITH THE QUEEN.

Tuesday, Dec. 20.-1st, summons; 2ndly, entr6e.

" Miss Burney, have you heard that Boswell is going to publish a
life of your friend Dr. Johnson?"

"No, ma'am."

"I tell you as I heard.  I don't know for the truth of it, and I
can't tell what he will do.  He is so extraordinary a man, that
perhaps he will devise something extraordinary.  What do you
think of Madame de Genlis' last work?"

"I have not read it, ma'am."

" Not read it?"

(I believe she knew my copy, which lay on the table.)

I said I had taken it to Norbury, and meant to read it with Mrs.
Locke, but things then prevented.

"Oh! (looking pleased) have you read the last edition of her
'Ad`ele?'"(200)

"No, ma'am."

"Well, it is much improved; for the passage, you know, Mrs.
Delany, of the untruth, is all altered - fifteen pages are quite
new ; and she has altered it very prettily.  She has sent it to
me.  She always sends me her works ; she did it a long while ago,
when I did not know there was such a lady as Madame de Genlis.
You have not seen 'Ad`ele,' then?"

"No, ma'am."

"You would like to see it.  But I have it not here.  Indeed,
I think sometimes I have no books at all, for they are at Kew, or
they are in town, and they are here ; and I don't know which is
which.  Is Madame de Genlis about any new work?"

"Yes, ma'am - one which she intends 'pour le peuple.'"


"AH, that will be a good Work.  Have you heard of--" (mentioning
some German book, of which I forget the name).

"No, ma'am."

"O, it will be soon translated; very fine language,--very

320

bad book.  They translate all our worst 1 And they are so
improved in language; they write so finely now, even for the most
silly books, that it makes one read on, and one cannot help it.
O, I am very angry sometimes at that ! Do you like the 'Sorrows
of Werter?'"

"I--I have not read it, ma'am, only in part."

"No? Well, I don't know how it is translated, but it is very
finely writ in German, and I can't bear it.""

"I am very happy to hear that, for what I did look over made me
determine never to read it.  It seemed only writ as a deliberate
defence of suicide."

"Yes; and what is worse, it is done by a bad man for revenge."

She then mentioned, with praise, another book, saying,

"I wish I knew the translator."

"I wish the translator knew that."

"O--it is not--I should not like to give my name, for fear I have
judged ill: I picked it up on a stall.  O, it is amazing what
good books there are on stalls."

"It is amazing to me," said Mrs. Delany, "to hear that."

"Why, I don't pick them up myself; but I have a servant very
clever; and if they are not to be had at the booksellers', they
are not for me any more than for another."

She then spoke of Klopstock's "Messiah," saying it contained four
lines most perfect on religion.

"How I should like to see it.  Is it translated?" asked Mrs.
Delany, turning to me.

"In it," said her majesty: " there is a story of Lazarus and the
Centurion's daughter; and another young lady, Asyddel, he calls
her; and Lazarus is in love;--a very pretty scene-- no
stopping;--but it is out of place;--I was quite angry to read it.
And a long conversation between Christ and Lazarus--very
strange!"

" "Yet Milton does that."

"Yes."



                THE QUEEN ON ROMAN CATHOLIC SUPERSTITIONS.

And then she went on discussing Milton; this led to Wickliffe and
Cranmer; and she spoke of the Roman Catholic superstitions.

"O, so odd! Can it signify to God Almighty if I eat a

321

piece of fish or a piece of meat? And one of the Queen of
France's sisters wears the heel of her shoe before for a penance;
as if God Almighty could care for that!""

"It is supposing in Him the caprice of a fine lady."

"Yes, just so.  Yet it is amusing, and pretty too, how sincere
the lower people are, of the Catholics.  I was with my mother at
--, a Catholic town, and there was a lady we knew, had a very bad
tooth-ache; she suffered night and day, and we were very sorry.
But, over the river there was a Virgin Mary of great fame for
miracles, and, one morning, when I wanted to get up, our maid did
not come, and nobody knew where she was, and she could not be
found.  At last she came back with a large bouquet, which she had
carried over the river in the night and got it blessed, and gave
it to the lady to cure her tooth-ache.  But we have Protestant
nunneries in Germany.  I belonged to one which was under the
Imperial protection ; there is one for royal families-one for the
noblesse,- the candidates' coats of arms are put up several weeks
to be examined, and if any flaw is found, they are not elected.
These nunneries are intended for young ladies of little fortunes
and bigh birth.  There is great licence in them.  They have
balls, not at home, but next door; and there is no restriction
but to go to prayers at eight, at nine, and at night,-that is
very little, you know,- and wear black or white, The dress
consists of three caps, one over the forehead, one for the back,
one up high, and one lower, for the veil; very pretty; and the
gown is a vest, and the skirt has I don't know how many hundred
plaits.  I had the cross and order, but I believe I gave it away
when I came to England --for you may transfer; so I gave it to
the Countess of a friend of mine."

I could not help saying, how glad we all were that she was no
nun!

"Once," she continued, "I wanted to go to a chapel in that
Catholic town, and my mother said I should go if I would be sure
not to laugh at anything; and I promised I would not; so, I took
care to keep my eyes half shut, half open, thus, for fear I
should see something to make me laugh, for my mother told me I
should not come out all day if I laughed.  But there was nothing
ridiculous."

[The memorandum of the above conversation breaks off abruptly.]
322

                            ON BEING PRESENTED.

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Burney.)
Windsor, Dec. 17

My dearest Hetty,
I am sorry I could not more immediately write; but I really have
not had a moment since your last.

Now I know what you next want is, to hear accounts of kings,
queens, and such royal personages.  O ho! do you so?  Well.

Shall I tell you a few matters of fact?--or, had you rather a few
matters of etiquette?  Oh, matters of etiquette, you cry! for
matters of fact are short and stupid, and anybody can tell, and
everybody is tired with them.

Very well, take your own choice.

To begin, then, with the beginning.

You know I told you, in my last, my various difficulties, what
sort of preferment to turn my thoughts to, and concluded with
just starting a young budding notion of decision, by suggesting
that a handsome pension for nothing at all would be as well as
working night and day for a salary.

This blossom of an idea, the more I dwelt upon, the more I liked.
Thinking served it for a hothouse, and it came out into full blow
as I ruminated upon my pillow. Delighted that thus all my
contradictory and wayward fancies were overcome, and my mind was
peaceably settled what to wish and to demand, I gave over all
further meditation upon choice of elevation, and had nothing more
to do but to make my election known.

My next business, therefore, was to be presented.  This could be
no difficulty; my coming hither had been their own desire, and
they had earnestly pressed its execution.  I had only to prepare
myself for the rencounter.

You would never believe--you, who, distant from Courts and
courtiers, know nothing of their ways--the many things to be
studied, for appearing with a proper propriety before crowned
heads.  Heads without crowns are quite other sort of rotundas.

Now, then, to the etiquette.  I inquired into every particular,
that no error might be committed.  And as there is no saying what
may happen in this mortal life, I shall give you those
instructions I have received myself, that, should you find
yourself in the royal presence, you may know how to comport
yourself.
323

       DIRECTIONS FOR COUGHING, SNEEZING, OR MOVING BEFORE THE KING
                                AND QUEEN.

In the first place, you must not cough.  If you find a cough
tickling in your throat, you must arrest it from making any
sound; if you find yourself choking with the forbearance, you
must choke--but not cough.

In the second place, you must not sneeze.  If you have a vehement
cold, you must take no notice of it; if your nose membranes feel
a great irritation, you must hold your breath; if a sneeze still
insists upon making its way, you must oppose it, by keeping your
teeth grinding together; if the violence of the repulse breaks
some blood-vessel, you must break the blood-vessel--but not
sneeze.

In the third place, you must not, upon any account, stir either
hand or foot.  If, by chance, a black pin runs into your head,
you must not take it out.  If the pain is very great, you must be
sure to bear it without wincing; if it brings the tears into your
eyes, you must not wipe them off; if they give you a tingling by
running down your cheeks, you must look as if nothing was the
matter.  If the blood should gush from your head by means of the
black pin, you must let it gush; if you are uneasy to think of
making such a blurred appearance, you must be uneasy, but you
must say nothing about it.  If, however, the agony is very great,
you may, privately, bite the inside of your cheek, or of your
lips, for a little relief; taking care, meanwhile, to do it so
cautiously as to make no apparent dent outwardly.  And, with that
precaution, if you even gnaw a piece out, it will not be minded,
only be sure either to swallow it, or commit it to a corner of
the inside of your mouth till they are gone- for you must not
spit.

I have many other directions but no more paper; I will endeavour,
however, to have them ready for you in time.  Perbaps, meanwhile,
you would be glad to know if I have myself had opportunity to put
in practice these receipts?


                  DR.  BURNEY is DISAPPOINTED OF A PLACE.

Sunday, May 21, 1786.-I have now quite a new business to write
upon.  Late on Saturday night news reached my father of the death
of the worthy Mr. Stanley, who has been long in a declining state
of health.  His place of master of the king's band my dear father
had been promised formerly.
324

Now he was once more to apply for it; and early on Sunday morning
he went to Mr. Smelt, to beg his advice what way to proceed.

just as I was at the door, and going to church, my father
returned, and desired me to come back, as he had something to
communicate to me.  Mr. Smelt, he then told me, had counselled
him to go instantly to Windsor, not to address the king, but to
be seen by him.  "Take your daughter," he said, "in your hand,
and walk upon the Terrace.  The king's seeing you at this time he
will understand, and he is more likely to be touched by a hint of
that delicate sort than by any direct application."

My father determined implicitly to follow this advice.  But let
me not omit a singular little circumstance, which much enlivened
and encouraged our expedition.  While I was changing my dress for
the journey, I received a letter from Miss Port, which was sent
by a private hand, and ought to have arrived sooner, and which
pressed my visit to my dear Mrs. Delany very warmly, and told me
it was by the queen's express wish.  This gave me great spirits
for my dear father's enterprise, and I was able to help him on
the road, from so favourable a symptom.

When we got to Windsor, my father saw me safe to Mrs. Delany's,
and then went himself to Dr. Lind's.  With what joy did I fly
into the dear, open arms of this most venerable of women ! Her
reception had all the warm liveliness of pleasant surprise, added
to its unfailing kindness.

Miss Port, with her usual partiality, was in high glee from the
surprise.  I dined and drank tea with them.  Mrs. Delany related
to me the most flattering speech made to her by the queen, about
my coming to her as " the friend best suited to solace her in her
disturbances," and assured me she had quite interested herself in
pressing Mrs. Delany to hasten me.

'Tis very extraordinary what a gracious disposition towards me
this sweet queen always manifests, and what peculiar elegance
there is in the expressions she makes use of in my favour.  They
were now particularly well-timed, and gave me most pleasant hopes
for my dear father.    He came to tea at Mrs. Delany's, and, at
the proper hour, went to the Terrace, with the good-natured Dr.
Lind, who is always ready to oblige.  I waited to go with a
female party, which was arranged for me by Mrs. Delany, and soon
followed.

All the royal family were already on the Terrace before we
325

arrived.  The king and queen, and the Prince of Mecklenburg, and
her majesty's mother -walked together.  Next them the princesses
and their ladies, and the young princesses, making a very gay and
pleasing procession, of one of the finest families in the world.
Every way they moved, the crowd retired to stand up against the
wall as they passed, and then closed in to follow.  When they
approached towards us, and we were retreating, Lady Louisa
Clayton placed me next herself, making her daughters stand
below-a politeness and attention without which I had certainly
not been seen; for the moment their majesties advanced, I
involuntarily looked down, and drew my hat over my face.  I could
not endure to stare at them, and, full of our real errand, I felt
ashamed , even of being seen by them.  The very idea of a design,
however far from illaudable is always distressing and
uncomfortable.  Consequently, I should have stood in the herd,
and unregarded; but Lady Louisa's kindness and good breeding put
me in a place too conspicuous to pass unnoticed.  The moment the
queen had spoken to her, which she stopped to do as soon as she
came up to her, she inquired, in a whisper, who was with her; as
I know by hearing my own name given for the answer.  The queen
then instantly stepped nearer me, and asked me how I did; and
then the king came forward, and, as soon as he had repeated the
same question, said, "Are you come to stay?"

"No, sir, not now."

"No; but how long shall you stay?"

"I go to-night, sir."

"I was sure," cried the queen, "she was not come to stay, by
seeing her father."

I was glad by this to know my father had been observed.

"And when did you come?" cried the king.

"About two hours ago, sir."

"And when do you return again to Windsor?"

"Very soon, I hope, sir."

"And--and--and--" cried he, half laughing, and hesitating,
significantly, "pray, how goes on the Muse?"

At first I only laughed, too; but he repeated the inquiry, and
then I answered, "Not at all, sir."

"No? But why?--why not?"

"I--I--I am afraid sir," stammered I, and true enough, I am sure.

"And why?" repeated he, "of what?"

I spoke something,--I hardly know what myself,--so indis-

326

tinctly, that he could not hear me, though he had put his head
quite under my hat, from the beginning of the little conference
and, after another such question or two, and no greater
satisfaction in the answer, he smiled very good humouredly, and
walked on, his charming queen by his side.  His condescension
confuses, though it delights me.

We stayed some time longer on the Terrace, and my poor father
occasionally joined me; but he looked so conscious and depressed,
that it pained me to see him.  There is nothing that I know so
very dejecting, as solicitation.  I am sure I could never, I
believe, go through a task of that sort.  My dear father was not
spoken to, though he had a bow every time the king passed him,
and a curtsey from the queen.  But it hurt him, and he thought it
a very bad prognostic ; and all there was at all to build upon
was the graciousness shewn to me,
which, indeed, in the manner I was accosted, was very flattering,
and, except to high rank, I am told, very rare.

We stayed but a very short time with my sweet Mrs. Delany, whose
best wishes you are sure were ours.  I told her our plan, and our
full conviction that she could not assist in it; as the
obligations she herself owes are so great and so weighty, that
any request from her would be encroaching and improper.

We did not get home till past eleven o'clock.  We were then
informed that Lord Brudenel had called to say Mr. Parsons had a
promise of the place from the lord chamberlain.  This was not
very exhilarating.



                 A VISIT TO WARREN HASTINGS AND HIS WIFE.

I had been invited by Mr. Cambridge to pass a day at Twickenham
with Mr. and Mrs. Hastings, who had proposed to carry me with
them : accordingly, on May 24th, MrsHastings sent her carriage
here before ten o'clock.  I made her and Mr. Hastings a visit of
about half an hour previously to our journey.  I am quite charmed
with Mr. Hastings, and, indeed, from all I can gather, and all I
can observe,-both which are but little,-he appears to me to be
one of the greatest men now living, as a public character; while
as a private one, his gentleness, candour, soft manners, and
openness of disposition, make him one of the most pleasing.

The little journey was extremely agreeable.  He spoke with the
utmost frankness of his situation and affairs, and with a noble
confidence in his certainty of victory over his enemies,

327

from his consciousness of integrity and honour, that filled me
with admiration and esteem for him.  Mrs. Hasting's is lively,
obliging, and entertaining, and so adored by her husband, that,
in her sight and conversation  he seems to find a recompense,
adequate to all his wishes, for the whole of his toils, and long
disturbances and labours.  How rare, but how sweet and pleasant,
the sight of such unions.(201)


                        A PROPOSAL FROM THE QUEEN.

[June, 1786.-A vacancy at this time occurred in the royal
household, from the resignation of Madame Haggerdorn, one of the
queen's German attendants who, together with Madame
Schwellenberg, held the office of keeper of the robes.  The place
was much sought after, but her majesty had been so well pleased
with what she saw of Miss Burney, that she graciously empoWered
Mr. Smelt to offer her this situation, allowing her time to
consider and weigh its advantages.

Miss Burney, though deeply grateful for such a distinction,
foresaw with alarm the separation from her family and the total
confinement it would occasion; and, in her perplexity how to
decide, she wrote to her friend, Miss Cambridge, in the following
terms.]

328

Monday, June, 1786.

. . . . Yesterday evening, while I was with Mrs. Delany, Mr.
Smelt arrived from Windsor, and desired a private conference with
her; and, when it was over, a separate one with me: surprising me
not a little, by entreating me to suffer some very home questions
from him, relative to my situation, my views, and even my wishes,
with respect to my future life.  At first, I only laughed: but my
merriment a little failed, me, when he gave me to understand he
was commissioned to make these inquiries by a great personage,
who had conceived so favourable an opinion of me as to be
desirous of undoubted information, whether or not there was a
probability she might permanently attach me to herself and her
family.

You cannot easily, my dear Miss Cambridge, picture to yourself
the consternation with which I received this intimation.  It was
such that the good and kind Mr. Smelt, perceiving it, had the
indulgence instantly to offer me his services, first, in
forbearing to mention even to my father his commission, and next
in fabricating and carrying back for me a respectful excuse.  And
I must always consider myself the more obliged to him, as I saw
in his own face the utmost astonishment and disappointment at
this reception of his embassy.

I could not, however, reconcile to myself concealing from my dear
father a matter that ought to be settled by himself; yet I
frankly owned to Mr. Smelt that no situation of that sort was
suited to my own taste, or promising to my own happiness.

He seemed equally sorry and surprised ; he expatiated warmly upon
the sweetness of character of all the royal family, and then
begged me to consider the very peculiar distinction shown me,
that, unsolicited, unsought, I had been marked out with such
personal favour by the queen herself, as a person with whom she
had been so singularly pleased, as to wish to settle me with one
of the princesses, in preference to the thousands of offered
candidates, of high birth and rank, but small fortunes, who were
waiting and supplicating for places in the new-forming
establishment.  Her majesty proposed giving me apartments in the
palace ; making me belong to the table of Mrs. Schwellenberg,
with whom all her own visitors--bishops, lords, or commons--
always dine; keeping me a footman, and settling on me 200 pounds
a year.  "And in such a situation," he

329

added, "so respectably offered, not solicited, you may have
opportunities of serving your particular friends,--especially
your father,--such as scarce any other could afford you."

My dear Miss Cambridge will easily feel that this was a plea not
to be answered.  Yet the attendance upon this princess was to be
incessant,--the confinement to the court continual; I was scarce
ever to be spared for a single visit from the palaces, nor to
receive anybody but with permission,--and, my dear Miss
Cambridge, what a life for me, who have friends so dear to me,
and to whom friendship is the balm, the comfort, the very support
of existence!

Don't think me ungrateful, meanwhile, to the sweet queen, for
thus singling out and distinguishing an obscure and most
unambitious individual.  No indeed, I am quite penetrated with
her partial and most unexpected condescension ; but yet, let me
go through, for her sake, my tasks with what cheerfulness I may,
the deprivations I must suffer would inevitably keep me from all
possibility of happiness.

Though I said but little, my dear Mrs. Delany was disturbed and
good Mr. Smelt much mortified, that a proposition which had
appeared to them the most flattering and honourable, should be
heard only with dejection.  I cast, however, the whole into my
father's disposal and pleasure.

But I have time for no more detail, than merely to say, that till
the offer comes in form, no positive answer need be given, and
therefore that I am yet at liberty.  Write to me, then, my
dearest Miss Cambridge, with all your fullest honesty, and let me
know which you wish to strengthen--my courage in making my real
sentiments openly known, or my fortitude in concealing what it
may be right I should endure. . . .

Monday Night,

I have now to add, that the zealous Mr. Smelt is just returned
from Windsor, whither he went again this morning, purposely to
talk the matter over with her majesty.  What passed I know
not,-but the result is, that she has desired an interview with me
herself; it is to take place next Monday, at Windsor.  I now see
the end--I see it next to inevitable.  I can suggest nothing upon
earth that I dare say for myself, in an audience so generously
meant.  I cannot even to my father utter my reluctance,--I see
him so much delighted at the prospect of an establishment he
looks upon as so honourable.  But for the queen's own word
"permanent,"--but for her de-
330

clared desire to attach me entirely to herself and family!--I
should share in his pleasure; but what can make me amends for all
I shall forfeit?  But I must do the best I can,

Write me a comforting and strengthening letter, my dearest Miss
Cambridge.  I have no heart to write to Mickleham, or Norbury.  I
know how they will grieve:--they have expected me to spend the
whole summer with them.  My greatest terror is, lest the queen,
from what Mr. Smelt hinted, should make me promise myself to her
for a length of years.  What can I do to avoid that?  Anything
that has a period is endurable but what can I object that will
not sound ungrateful, to the honour she is doing me and meaning
me?  She has given the most highly flattering reasons for making
this application, in preference to listening to that of others;
she has put it upon terms of commendation the most soothing; she
is, indeed, one of the sweetest characters in the world.  Will
you, too, condemn me, then, that I feel thus oppressed by her
proposal?  I hope not,-I think not ;-but be very honest if you
really do.  I wish I could see you!  It is not from
nervousness;--I have always and uniformly had a horror of a life
of attendance and dependence. . . .


                  Miss BURNEY ACCEPTS THE QUEEN'S OFFER.

[How Miss Cambridge replied is not known; but Miss Burney's
appreciation of the queen's kindness, and the desire avowed by
Dr. Burney and Mrs. Delany that so honourable and advantageous an
offer should not be declined, induced her to accept it ; and the
following letters to her father show the final result of her
deliberations, and her affectionate care to prevent him from
perceiving her uneasiness.]

(Fanny Burney to Dr. Burney.)
Monday, June 19.

How great must have been your impatience, dearest sir but my
interview has only this morning taken place.  Everything is
settled, and to-morrow morning I go to the queen's Lodge, to see
the apartments, and to receive my instructions.

I must confess myself extremely frightened and full of alarms at
a change of situation so great, so unexpected, so unthought-of.
Whether I shall suit it or not, heaven only knows, but I have a
thousand doubts.  Yet nothing could be sweeter than

331

the queen,--more encouraging, more gentle, or more delicate.  She
did not ask me one question concerning my qualifications for the
charge; she only said, with the most condescending softness, "I
am sure, Miss Burney, we shall Suit One another very well."  And,
another time, "I arn sure we shall do very well together."

And what is itl dear Sir, you suppose to be my business?  Not to
attend any of the princesses--but the queen herself!  This,
indeed, was a delightful hearing, reverencing and admiring her as
I have so sincerely done ever since I first saw her.  And in
this, my amazement is proportioned to my satisfaction; for the
place designed me is that of Mrs. Haggerdorn, who came with her
from Germany, and it will put me more immediately and more
constantly in her presence than any other place, but that of Mrs.
Schwellenberg, in the Court.

The prepossession the queen has taken in my favour is truly
extraordinary, for it seems as if her real view was, as Mr. Smelt
hinted, to attach me to her person.  She has been long, she told
Mrs. Delany, looking out for one to supply the place of Mrs.
Haggerdorn, whose ill health forces her back to Germany; "and I
was led to think of Miss Burney, first by her books ; then by
Seeing her - then by always hearing how she was loved by her
friends; but chiefly by your friendship for her."

I fancy my appointment will take place very soon.

Windsor, June 20.

Most dear Sir,
I am sure you will be (glad to hear I have got one formality
over, that was very disagreeable to my expectations.  I have been
introduced to Mrs. Haggerdorn whom I am to succeed, and to Mrs,
Schwellenberg, whom I am to accompany.  This passed at the
queen's Lodge, in their own apartments, this morning.  I cannot
easily describe the sensation with which I entered that
dwelling,--the thoughts of its so soon becoming my habitation,--
-and the great hazard of how all will go on in it--and the sudden
change!

Everything was perfectly civil and easy; the queen had herself
prepared them to receive me, and requested me to go.  They made
no use of the meeting in the way of business it was merely a
visit of previous ceremony. . . .

The utmost astonishment will take place throughout the Court when
they hear of my appointment.  Everybody has settled some
successor to Mrs. Haggerdorn; and I have never,

332

I am very sure, been suspected by a single person. I saw, this
morning, by all that passed with Mrs. S., how unexpected
a step her majesty has taken. The place, she told me, has been
solicited, distantly, by thousands and thousands of women of
fashion and rank. . . .

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Francis.)(202)
St. Martin's-street, June 27.

. . . Her majesty has sent me a message, express, near a
fortnight ago, with an offer of a place at Court, to succeed Mrs.
Haggerdorn, one of the Germans who accompanied her to England,
and who is now retiring into her own country.  'Tis a place of
being constantly about her own person, and assisting in her
toilette,-a place of much confidence, and many comforts;
apartments in the palace; a footmnan kept for me; a coach in
common with Mrs. Schwellenberg; 200 pounds a-year, etc.

I have been in a state of extreme disturbance ever since, from
the reluctance I feel to the separation it will cause me from all
my friends. Those, indeed, whom I most love, I shall be able to
invite to me in the palace - but I see little or no possibility
of being able to make what I most value, excursions into the
country. . . . I repine at losing my loved visits to Mickleham,
Norbury, Chesington, Twickenham, and Ayle sham ; all these I must
now forego. . . .

You may believe how much I am busied.  I have been presented at
the queen's Lodge in Windsor, and seen Mrs. Haggerdorn in office,
and find I have a place of really nothing to do, but to attend;
and on Thursday I am appointed by her majesty to go to St.
James's, to see all that belongs to me there.  And I am now
"fitting Out" just as you were, and all the maids and workers
suppose I am going to be married, and snigger every time they
bring in any of My new attire. I do not care to publish the
affair till it is made known by authority ; so I leave them to
their conjectures, and I fancy their greatest wonder is, who and
where is the sposo; for they must think it odd he should never
appear!

 (189) "Memoirs of Dr. Burney," vol. iii. p. 87. Fanny had,
however, to assist in dressing the queen. See postea, P- 345.

190) The death of the Duchess dowager of Portland.

(191) Miss Planta was English teacher to the two eldest
princesses.-ED.

(192)  One of the governesses to the princesses.-ED.

(193) Georgina Mary Anne Port, grandniece of Mrs. Delany, by whom
she was brought up from the age of seven until Mrs. Delany's
death.  She was born in 1771, and mairied, in 1789, Mr.
Waddington, afterwards Lord Llanover.  She was for many years on
terms of friendship with Fanny, but after Madame D'Arblay's
death, Lady Llanover seized the opportunity of publishing, in her
edition of Mrs. Delany's Correspondence, an attack upon her
former friend, of which the ill-breeding is only equalled by the
inaccuracy.  The view which she there takes of Fanny is justly
characterised by Mr. Shuckburgh as "the lady-in-waiting's
lady's-maid's view." (See Macmillan's magazine for February,
1890.)-ED.

(194) Joseph Baretti, author of an Italian and English
Dictionary, and other works; the friend Of JOhnson, well known to
readers of Boswell.  He had long been acquainted wifh the
Burneys.  Fanny writes in her "Early Diary" (March, 1773): "Mr.
Baretti appears to be very facetious; he amused himself very much
with Charlotte, whom he calls churlotte, and kisses whether she
will or no, always calmly saying, 'Kiss A me, Churlotte!'"
Charlotte Burney was then about fourteen; she was known after
this in the family as Mrs. Baretti.-ED.

(195) A character in "Cecilia."-ED.

(196) Mrs. Phillips (Susan)-ED.

(197) Madame de Genlis had visited England during the spring of
1785, and made the acquaintance of Dr. Burney and his daughter
Fanny.  In July Fanny writes of her as "the sweetest as well as
the most accomplished Frenchwoman I ever met with," and in the
same month Madame de Genlis writes to Fanny: "Je vous aime depuis
l'instant o`u j'ai lu Evelina et Cecilia, et le bonheur de vous
entendre et de vous conn6itre personellement a rendu ce sentiment
aussi tendre qu'il est bien fond6." The acquaintance, however,
was not kept up.-ED.

(198) The famous actress, Kitty Clive.  She had quitted the stage
in 1760.  Genest says of her, "If ever there was a true Comic
Genius, Mrs. Clive was one."--ED.

(199) John Henderson was by many people considered second only to
Gairick, especially in Shakspearean parts.  He too was lately
dead, having made his last appearance on the stage on the 8th of
November, 1785, within less than a month of his death.-ED.

(200) "Ad`ele et Th`eodore, ou Lettres sur l'`education" by
Madame de Genlis, ffirst published in 1782.-ED.

(201) We shall hear again of 'Mr, and Mrs. Hastings, and of the
scandal which was caused by the lady's reception at Court.  She
was bought by Hastings of her former husband for 10,000 pounds.
The story is briefly as follows:--

Among the fellow-passengers of Hastings on the ship which
conveyed him to India in 1769, were a German portrait-painter,
named Imhoff, and his wife, who were going out to -Madras in the
hope of bettering their circumstances.  During the voyage a
strong attachment sprang up between Hastings and the lady, who
nursed him through an illness.  The husband, it seems, had as
little affection for his wife as she had for him, and was easily
prevailed upon to enter into an amicable arrangement, by virtue
of which Madame Imhoff instituted proceedings for divorce against
him in the German courts.  Pending the result, the Imhoffs
continued to live together ostensibly as man and wife to avoid
scandal.  The proceedings- were long protracted, but a decree of
divorce was finally procured in 1772, when Hastings married the
lady and paid to the complaisant husband a sum, it Is said,
exceeding, 10,000 pounds.

The favourable reception accorded by the queen to Mrs. Hastings,
when, in 1784, she returned to England as wife of the Governor-
general of Bengal, passed not without public comment.  Her
husband, however, was in high esteem at Court from his great
services, and she had an additional recommendation to the queen's
favour in the friendship of Mrs. Schwellenberg, the keeper of the
robes, whom she had known before her voyage to -India.-ED.

(202) Fanny's sister Charlotte, who had mairied Clement Francis,
Feb. 11, 1786.  They were now settled at Aylesham, in Norfolk,
where Mr. Francis was practising as a surgeon.-ED.




333

                                 SECTION 7
                                   1786
                 MISS BURNEY ENTERS UPON HER COURT DUTIES.

[The original editor of Madame D'Arblay's Diary intimates that
fictitious names have been given to one or two of the persons
spoken of in the following portion of the work.  These names we
retain in the present text, but the following persons have been
identified :-

"Col. Fairly," with Col. the Hon. Stephen Digby;
"Col. Wellbred," with Col. Greville;
"Mr. Turbulent," with the Rev. Charles de Guiffardi`ere; and
"Miss Fuzilier" with Miss Gunning-ED.]

                           THE QUEEN'S SUMMONS.

Queen's Lodge, Windsor, Monday, July 17-

 With what hurry of mind and body did I rise this morning!
Everything had already been arranged for Mrs. Ord's carrying us
to Windsor, and my father's carriage was merely to go as
baggage-waggon for my clothes.  But I wept not then.  I left no
one behind me to regret; my dear father accompanied me, and all
my dear sisters had already taken their flight, never more to
return.  Even poor little Sarah.(203) whom I love very dearly,
was at Chesington.

Between nine and ten o'clock we set off. W e changed carriage in
Queen Ann-street, and Mrs. Ord conveyed us thence to Windsor.
With a struggling heart, I kept myself tolerably tranquil during
the little journey.  My dear father

334

was quite happy, and Mrs. Ord felt the joy of a mother in
relinquishing me to the protection of a queen so universally
reverenced.  Had I been in better spirits, their ecstasy would
have been unbounded ; but alas !-what I was approaching was not
in my mind - -what I was leaving had taken Possession of it
solely.

Miss Port flew out to us as the carriage stopped-the youthful
blush of pleasure heightening her complexion, and every feature
shewing her kind happiness.  Mrs. Delany, she said, was gone out
with the queen.  I took leave of my good Mrs. Ord, whose eyes
overflowed with maternal feelings-chiefly of contentment.  Mrs.
Delany came home in about An hour.  A chastened satisfaction was
hers; she rejoiced in the prospect before me; she was happy we
,should now be so much united, but she felt for my deprivations,
she saw the hard conflict within me, and the tenderest pity
checked her delight.


It was now debated whether I was immediately to go to the Lodge,
or wait for orders.  The accustomed method for those who have
their majesties' commands to come to them is, to present
themselves to the people in waiting, and by them to be announced.
My heart, however, was already sinking, and my spirits every
moment were growing more agitated, and my
sweet Mrs. Delany determined to spare me the additional task of
passing through such awe-striking formalities.  She therefore
employed my dear father-delighted with the employment-to write a
note, in her name.

" Mrs. Delany presents her most humble duty to the queen; she
found Dr. Burney and his daughter at her house.  Miss Burney
waits the honour of her majesty's commands."

This, though unceremonious and unusual, she was sure the queen
would pardon.  A verbal answer came that I was to go to the Lodge
immediately.

O, my dear Susan! in what an agony of mind did I obey the
summons!  I was still in my travelling dress, but could not stay
to change it.  My father accompanied me.  Mrs. Delany, anxiously
and full of mixed sensations, gave me her blessing.  We walked;
the queen's Lodge is not fifty yards from Mrs. Delany's door.  My
dear father's own courage all failed him in this little step; for
as I was now on the point of entering--probably for ever-into an
entire new way of life, and of foregoing by it all my most
favourite schemes, and every dear expectation my fancy had ever
indulged of happiness adapted to its taste--as now all was to be
given up--I
335

could disguise my trepidation no longer--indeed I never had
disguised, I had only forborne proclaiming it.  But my dear
father now, sweet soul ! felt it all, as I held by his arm,
without power to say one word, but that if he did not hurry along
I should drop by the way.  I heard in his kind voice that he was
now really alarmed ; he would have slackened his pace, or have
made me stop to breathe; but I could not; my breath seemed gone,
and I could only hasten with all my might, lest my strength
should go too.

A page was in waiting at the gate, who shewed us 'Into Mrs.
Haggerdorn's room, which was empty.  My dear father endeavoured
here to compose my spirits; I could have no other command over
them than to forbear letting him know the afflicted state of all
within, and to suffer him to keep to his own conclusions, that my
emotion was all from fear of the approaching audience.

The page came in a minute or two to summon me to the queen.  The
queen was in her dressing-room.  Mrs. Schwellenberg was standing
behind her : nobody else present.

She received me with a most gracious bow of the head, and a smile
that was all sweetness.  She saw me much agitated, and attributed
it, no doubt, to the awe of her presence.  O, she little knew my
mind had no room in it for feelings of that sort! She talked to
me of my journey, my father, my sisters, and my brothers; the
weather, the roads, and Mrs. Delany, any, every thing she could
suggest, that could best tend to compose and to make me easy; and
when I had been with her about a quarter of an hour, she desired
Mrs. Schwellenberg to shew me my apartment, and, with another
graceful bow, motioned my retiring.

Not only to the sweet queen, but to myself let me here do
justice, in declaring that though I entered her presence with a
heart filled with everything but herself, I quitted it with
sensations much softened.  The condescension of her efforts to
quiet me, and the elegance of her receiving me, thus, as a
visitor, without naming to me a single direction, without even
the most distant hint of business, struck me to shew so much
delicacy, as well as graciousness, that I quitted her with a very
deep sense of her goodness, and a very strong conviction that she
merited every exertion on my part to deserve it.

Mrs. Schwellenberg left me,--at the room door, where my dear
father was still waiting for me, too anxious to depart till he
again saw me.
336

We spent a short time together, in which I assured him I would
from that moment take all the happiness in my power, and banish
all the regret.  I told him how gratifying had been my reception,
and I omitted nothing I could think of to remove the uneasiness
that this day seemed first to awaken in him Thank God ! I had the
fullest success; his hopes and gay expectations were all within
call, and they ran back at the first beckoning.

This settled, and his dear countenance all fresh illumined with
returning content, we went together to Mrs. Schwellenherg, where
we made a visit of about an hour, in which I had the pleasure of
seeing them upon very amicable terms ; and then we had one more
t`ete-`a-t`ete all in the same cheering style, and he left me to
drest, and went to dine with Mrs. Delany.

Left to myself, I did not dare stop to think, nor look round upon
my new abode, nor consider for how long I was taking possession;
I rang for my new maid, and immediately dressed for dinner.  I
now took the most vigorous resolutions to observe the promise I
had made my dear father.  Now all was filially settled, to borrow
my own words, I needed no monitor to tell me it would be foolish,
useless, even wicked, not to reconcile myself to my destiny.

The many now wishing for just the same--O! could they look within
me.  I am married, my dearest Susan--I look upon it In that
light--I was averse to forming the union, and I endeavoured to
escape it; but my friends interfered--they prevailed--and the
knot is tied.  What then now remains but to make the best wife in
my power?  I am bound to it in duty, and I will strain every
nerve to succeed.


                           A MILITARY GOURMAND.

When summoned to dinner, I found Mrs. Schwellenberg and a German
officer, Colonel Polier, who is now an attendant of Prince
Charles of Mecklenburg, the queen's brother, who is on a visit to
their majesties.  I was introduced to himpand we took our places.
I was offered the seat of Mrs. Haggerdorn, which was at the head
of the table; but that was an undertaking I could not bear.  I
begged leave to decline it; and as Mrs. Schwellenberg left me at
my own choice, I planted myself quietly at one side.

Colonel Polier, though a German officer, is of a Swiss family.

337

He is a fat, good-humoured man, excessively fond Of eating and
drinking.  His enjoyment of some of the fare, and especially of
the dessert, was really laughable; he could never finish a speech
he had begun, if a new dish made its appearance, without stopping
to feast his eyes upon it, exclaim something in German, and suck
the inside of his mouth; but all so openly, and with such perfect
good-humour, that it was diverting without anything distasteful.

After dinner we went upstairs into Mrs. Schwellenber,-'s room, to
drink coffee.  This is a daily practice.  Her rooms are exactly
over mine ; they are the same size, and have the same prospect,
but they are much more sumptuously fitted up.


                         A SUCCESSION OF VISITORS.

Colonel Polier soon left us, to attend Prince Charles. Mrs.
Schwellenberg and I had then a long t`ete-`a-t`ete, in which I
found her a woman of understanding, and fond of conversation.  I
was called down afterwards to Miss Port, who was eager to see me
in my new dwelling, and dying with impatience to know, hear, and
examine everything about me.  She ran about to make all the
inquiries and discoveries she could for me, and was so highly
delighted with my situation, it was impossible not to receive
some pleasure even from looking at her.  She helped me to unpack,
to arrange, to do everything that came in the way.

In a short time Madame de la Fite entered, nearly as impatient as
herself to be my first visitor.  She was quite fanciful and
entertaining about my succeeding to Mrs. Haggerdorn, and
repeatedly turned round to look at me fresh and fresh, to see if
it was really me, and me in that so long differently appropriated
apartment.

She had but just left me, when who should enter but my dear Mrs.
Delany herself.  This was indeed a sweet regale to
me.  She came to welcome me in my own apartment, and I am sure to
teach me to love it.  What place could I see her in and hate ? I
could hardly do anything but kiss her soft cheeks, and dear
venerable hands, with gratitude for her kindness, while she
stayed with me, which was till the royal family came home from
the Terrace, which they walk upon every fine evening.  She had
already been invited to the king's concert, which she then
attended.

Miss Port and I now planned that we would drink t
338

together.  It was, indeed, my dearest Mrs. Locke's injunctions
that determined me upon making that trial; for I knew nothing
could more contribute to my future chance of some happy hours
than securing this time and this repast to imself.  Mrs, Delany
had the same wish, and encouraged me in the attempt.

As I knew not to whom to speak, nor how to give a positive order,
in my ignorance whether the measure I desired to take was
practicable or not, Miss Port undertook to be my agent.  She
therefore ran out, and scampered up and down the stairs and
passages in search of some one to whom she could apply.  She met
at last Mrs. Schwellenberg's man, and boldly bid him " bring Miss
Burney's tea."  "It is ready," he answered, "in the dining
parlour." And then he came to me, with his mistress's
compliments, and that she was come down to tea, and waited for
me.

To refuse to go was impossible it would have been an opening so
offensive, with a person destined for my principal companion, and
who had herself begun very civilly and attentively, that I could
not even hesitate.  I only felt heavyhearted, and Miss Port made
a thousand faces, and together we went to the eating-room.


                 THE TEA TABLE OF THE KEEPER OF THE ROBES.

Mrs. Schwellenberg had already made the tea; and four gentlemen
were seated at the table.  The Bishop of Salisbury, as I
afterwards found he was, came up to congratulate me, and spoke
very kindly of my father, whom he said he had just seen on the
Terrace.  This is a brother of Lord Barrington's: I had never met
him before.

Next him sat a young clergyman, Mr. Fisher, whom I did not
recollect, but who said he had seen me once at Mrs. Ord's, and
spoke to me of her, and of Mrs. Thrale, whom he had lately left
in Italy, where he has been travelling.

And next was Major Price, the equerry of the king at present in
waiting.  He is the same that all the Barborne family so adored
when a captain.  He mentioned them all to me, with high praise
and great good-breeding.  I am very much pleased with him, and
happy he should be the equerry in waiting on my first arrival.
Colonel Polier was also of the party.

I find it has always belonged to Mrs. Schwellenberg and
Mrs. Haggerdorn to receive at tea whatever company the king or
queen invite to the Lodge, as it is only a very select few OF them

339

that can eat with their majesties, and those few are only ladies;
no men, of what rank soever, being permitted to sit in the
queen's presence.  I mean and hope to leave this business wholly
to Mrs. Schwellenberg, and only to succeed Mrs. Haggerdorn in
personal attendance upon the queen.

During tea the door opened, and a young lady entered, upon whose
appearance all the company rose, and retreated a few paces
backward, with looks of high respect.  She advanced to Mrs.
Schwellenberg, and desired her to send a basin of tea into the
music-room for Mrs. Delany : then walking up to me, with a
countenance of great sweetness, she said, "I hope you are very
well, Miss Burney?"  I only curtseyed, and knew not till she left
the room, which was as soon as she had spoken a few words to
Major Price, that this was the Princess Elizabeth.

Immediately after the concert began; the band being very full,
and the performance on the ground-floor, as is the eating-room.
I heard it perhaps better, because softer, than if I had been in
the music-room.  I was very glad of this circumstance.  Nothing
was played but Handel; but I was pleased to hear any music, so
much had I persuaded myself I should hear no more.


EVENING CEREMONIAL IN THE QuEEN's DRESSING ROOM.

At night I was summoned to the queen's apartment.  Mrs.
Schwellenberg was there, waiting.  We sat together some time.
The queen then arrived, handed into her dressing-room by the
king, and followed by the princess royal and Princess Augusta.
None other of the princesses slept in the queen's Lodge.  The
lower Lodge, which is at the further end of the garden, is the
dwelling-place of the four younger princesses.

The king, with a marked appearance of feeling for the-no doubt
evident-embarrassment of my situation, on their entrance, with a
mild good-breeding inquired of me how I had found Mrs. Delany :
and then, kissing both his daughters, left the room.  The two
princesses each took the queen's hand, which they respectfully
kissed, and wishing her good night, curtseyed condescendingly to
her new attendant, and retired.

The queen spoke to me a little of my father, my journey, and Mrs.
Delany, and then entered into easy conversation, in German, with
Mrs. Schwellenberg, who never speaks English but by necessity.  I
had no sort of employment given me.  The queen was only waited
upon by Mrs. Schwellenberg and
340

Mrs. Thielky, her wardrobe woman ; and when she had put on her
night dishabille, she wished me good night.

This consideration to the perturbed state of my mind, that led
her majesty to permit my presence merely as a spectatress, by way
of taking a lesson of my future employment for my own use, though
to her, doubtless, disagreeable, was extremely gratifying to me,
and sent me to bed with as much ease as I now could hope to find.


THE QUEEN'S TOILETTES.

Monday, July 8.-I rose at six, and was called to the queen soon
after seven.  Only Mrs. Schwellenberg was with her, and again she
made me a mere looker-on; and the obligation I felt to her sent
me somewhat lighter hearted from her presence.

When she was dressed, in a simple morning gown, she had her hat
and cloak put on, to go to prayers at eight o'clock, at the
king's chapel in the Castle; and I returned to my room.

At noon came my dear father, and spent an hour or two with me--so
happy! so contented! so big with every pleasant expectation!--I
rejoice to recollect that I did nothing, said nothing this
morning to check his satisfaction; it was now, suddenly and at
once, all my care to increase his delight.  And so henceforward
it must invariably continue.

We parted cheerfully on* both sides; yet I saw a little pang in
his last embrace, and felt it in his dear hands :-but I kept
myself well up, and he left me, I really believe, without a wish
ungratified.

At dressing-time the same quiet conduct was still observed by the
queen--fixed in her benign determination to permit me to recover
breath and ease, ere she gave me any other trial than merely
standing in her presence.

At dinner we--I mean Mrs. Schwellenberg and myself-had Miss
Planta and Colonel Polier; and I was happy to be again diverted
with the excess of his satisfaction at sight of turtle upon the
table.


CONGRATULATORY VISITS FROM COURT OFFICIALS.

in the evening I had a visit from Lady Elizabeth Waldegrave, who
brought her sister, Lady Caroline Waldegrave, both to pay
congratulatory compliments.  Lady Elizabeth is lady of the
bedchamber to the princess royal, and lives in this Lodge.
341

Her sister, by the queen's, goodness, is permitted to spend .some
months of every year with her.  They were left orphans at about
sixteen: the queen instantly took them both under her protection.
They are gentle and well bred, and seem very amiable.  They
stayed with me till it was time for them to go into waiting for
the princess royal, whom they attend to the Terrace.

My dearest Mrs. Delany came again, to visit me wholly, and drink
tea with me.  We had a thousand things to discuss, but were
scarce a moment together before we were interrupted by Madame de
la Fite, who, however, only stayed to give and receive from Mrs.
Delany congratulations on meeting in my room at Windsor, and then
she pretty soon took leave.

We had but again arranged ourselves to a little comfort, when a
tat-tat at my door followed, and a lady entered whom I had never
seen before, with a very courteous air and demeanour, saying, "I
could not defer paying my compliments to Miss Burney, and wishing
her much joy, which we must all feel in such an accession to our
society: I must get my daughter to introduce me." And then
advanced Mrs. Fielding, and I found this was Lady Charlotte
Finch.

Mrs. Fielding is one of the women of the bedchamber.  She lives
with her mother, Lady Charlotte, and her three daughters, girls
from ten to fifteen years of age.

When she also wished me joy, I saw in her face a strong mark of
still remaining astonishment at my appointment.  Indeed all the
people in office here are so evidently amazed that one so
unthought of amongst them should so unexpectedly fill a place to
which they had all privately appropriated some acquaintance, that
I see them with difficulty forbear exclaiming, "How odd it is to
see you here!"

Lady Charlotte's visit was short and very civil; she was obliged
to hasten to the Castle, to attend the younger princesses till
they went to the Terrace.  They are sent to wait in an apartment
of the Castle, till the king and queen and the elders walk out,
and then they are called to join them, when the crowd is not
great, and when the weather is fine.

My Windsor apartment is extremely comfortable.  I have a large
drawing-room, as they call it, which is on the ground floor, as
are all the queen's rooms, and which faces the Castle and the
venerable round tower, and opens at the further side, from the
windows, to the little park.  It is airy, pleasant, clean, and
healthy, My bed-room is small, but neat and comfortable; its
342

entrance is only from the drawing-room, and it looks to the
garden.  These two rooms are delightfully independent of all the
rest of the house, and contain everything I can desire'for my
convenience and comfort.

In her way to my room, Mrs. Delany had met the king; she -was
alittle shocked, and feared she came at an improper hour, or
ought to have come in the back Way.  I know not if he had
perceived her distress; but he soon removed It, for when he went
out to go to the Terrace he looked towards my windows, and seeing
her there, advanced a few steps to ask her how she did.  The
queen turned round and curtseyed to her, and the Princess Augusta
ran up to speak to her.

I had retired behind her; but when they moved on, Miss
Goldsworthy, the sub-governess, stole from her charges, and came
to the window to desire Mrs. Delany to introduce' her to me.

Sweet Mrs. Delany, thwarted in her kind private views of an
interesting confabulation, grew fatigued, and went home; and then
Mrs. Fielding rose to accompany her.  Miss Port made a second
attempt for tea, but received for answer that Mrs. Schwellenberg
would come down and make it as soon as the king and queen came
from the Terrace.

The ceremony of waiting tea till the royal family return from the
Terrace, is in order to make it for any company they may invite
to it. . . .

To-night, like the rest of my attendance, I was merely treated as
if an accidental visitor.  Sweet queen !,;z-she seems as fearful
of employing me as I am myself of being employed.


                           INOPPORTUNE VISITORS.

July 20.-This morning the queen enquired of me if I loved
walking? I answered yes; and she then told me I had better not
leave off that exercise, but walk out every morning.

I called at my dear Mrs. Delany's, and took Miss Port with me.
We went together to Lady Louisa Clayton.  We next went to Lady
Charlotte Finch, who is one of 'her sisters, and governess to the
princesses.

I called also at Madame de la Fite's; but she was so urgent with
me to prolong my stay, that I returned too late to dress for my
noon attendance, and just as I was in the midst of my hair
dishevelling, I was summoned.

I was obliged to slip on my morning gown, and a large
343

morning cap, and run away as fast as possible.  The queen, who
was only preparing for her own hair-dresser, was already en
peignoir: she sat down, the man was called in, and then, looking
at me with a smile, she said "Now, Miss Burney, you may go and
finish your dress."

Away I gallopped as fast as possible, to be ready against her
hair-dresser departed : but when I came pretty near my own
apartment, I was stopped in the gallery by a lady, who coming up
to me, said "Miss Burney?"

I started and looked at her; but finding her a perfect stranger
to me, I only said "Ma'am!"--and my accent of surprise made her
beg my pardon and walk on.  I was too much in haste to desire any
explanation, 'and was only quickening my pace, when I was again
stopped by a gentleman with a star and red ribbon, who, bowing
very civilly, said "Miss Burney, I presume?"

"Sir!--" was again all my answer and again, like the lady, he
begged my pardon, and retreated and I was too seriously earnest
to pursue my business to dare lose a moment.  On, therefore, I
again hurried; but, at the very door of my room, which is three
steps down and three up place out of the even line of the
gallery, I was once more stopped, by a very fat lady: who, coming
up to me, also said "Miss Burney, I believe?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"We have just," cried she, "been to wait upon you,--but I could
find nobody to introduce me; I believe I must introduce
myself,-Lady Effingham."

I thanked her for the honour she did me,--but when she proposed
returning with me to my room, in order to finish her visit, I was
quite disconcerted; and hesitated so much that she said "Perhaps
it is not convenient to you?-"

"Ma'am--I--I was just going to dress--" cried I; I meant to add,
and ought to have added, to " wait upon the queen," but I was so
unused to such a plea, that it sounded as a liberty to my vmind's
voice, and I could not get it out.

She desired she might be no impediment to me,-and we parted I was
forced to let her go and to run into my own room, and fly - to my
toilette Not quite the sort of flight I have been used to making.
However, all is so new here that it makes but a part in the
general change of system.

The lady who had met me first was her daughter, Lady
344

Frances Howard; and the gentleman, her second husband, Sir George
Howard.

I afterwards saw her ladyship in the queen's dressing-room, where
her majesty sent for her as soon as she was dressed, and very
graciously kept me some time, addressing me frequently while I
stayed, in the conversation that took place, as if with a sweet
view to point out to this first lady of her bedchamber I have yet
seen, the favourable light in which she considers me,



                      MAJOR PRICE AND COLONEL POLIER.

The Duke de Saxe-Gotha, first cousin to the king, came to Windsor
to-day, to spend some time.  Major Price, who had the honours to
do to his chief attendant, Baron ----, missed us therefore at
coffee ; but at tea we had them both, and my dear 'Mrs. Delany,
as well as the jovial gourmand colonel, with whom I became
prodigiously well acquainted, by making him 'teach me a few
German phrases, which he always contrives, let me ask what
question I may, to turn into some expression relating to eating
and drinking.

When all were gone, except the Duke de Saxe-Gotha's baron and
Major Price, I had a very long conversation with the major, while
Mrs. Schwellenberg was entertaining the baron in German.  I find,
my dearest Susan, he has seen you often at Lady Clarges's; Sir
Thomas(204) was his first cousin.  He knows my dearest Mrs.
Locke, also, by another cousin, Lady Templetown; and he knows me
my own self by my cousins of Worcester.  These mutual
acquaintances have brought us into almost an intimacy at once,
and I was quite glad of this opportunity of a little easy and
natural conversation.

Sunday, July 23--Charles Wesley played the organ; and after the
service was over he performed six or seven pieces by the king's
order.  They were all of Handel, and so well suited to the organ,
and so well performed on a remarkably good

345

instrument, that it was a great regale to me to hear them.  The
pleasure I received from the performance led me into being too
late for the queen.  I found I had already been enquired for to
attend at the queen's toilette.

When I came back the tea-party were all assembled in the
eating-parlour.  Colonel Polier was in the highest spirits : the
king had just bestowed some appointment upon him in Hanover.
He was as happy as if just casting his eyes upon pine-apple,
melon, and grapes.  I made Mrs. Schwellenberg teach me how to
wish him joy in German : which is the only phrase I have yet got
that has no reference to eating or drinking.


                  MISS BURNEY'S DAILY ROUTINE AT WINDSOR.

Monday, July 24-Having now journalized for one complete week, let
me endeavour to give you, more connectedly, a concise abstract of
the general method of passing the day, that then I may only write
what varies, and occurs occasionally.

I rise at six o'clock, dress in a morning gown and cap, and wait
my first summons, which is at all times from seven to near eight,
but commonly in the exact half hour between them.

The queen never sends for me till her hair is dressed.  This, in
a morning, is always done by her wardrobe-woman, Mrs. Thielky, a
German, but who speaks English perfectly well.

Mrs. Schwellenberg, since the first week, has never come down in
a morning at all.  The queen's dress is finished by Mrs. Thielky
and myself.  No maid ever enters the room while the queen is in
it.  Mrs. Thielky hands the things to me, and I put them on.
'Tis fortunate for me I have not the handing them!  I should
never know which to take first, embarrassed as I am, and should
run a prodigious risk of giving the gown before the hoop, and the
fan before the neckkerchief.

By eight o'clock, or a little after, for she is extremely
expeditious, she is dressed.  She then goes out to join the king,
and be joined by the princesses, and they all proceed to the
king's chapel in the Castle, to prayers, attended by the
governesses of the princesses, and the king's equerry.  Various
others at times attend, but only these indispensably.

I then return to my own room to breakfast.  I make this meal the
most pleasant part of the day; I have a book for my

346

companion, and I allow myself an hour for it.  At nine O'clock I
send off my breakfast things, and relinquish my book, to make a
serious and steady examination of everything I have upon my hands
in the way of business-in which preparations for dress are always
included, not for the present day alone, but for the Court-days,
which require a particular dress; for the next arriving birthday
of any of the royal family, every one of which requires new
apparel; for Kew, where the dress is plainest; and for going on
here, where the dress very pleasant to me, requiring no shew nor
finery, but merely to be neat, not inelegant, and moderately
fashionable.

That over, I have my time at my own disposal till a quarter
before twelve, except on Wednesdays and Saturdays, when I have it
only to a quarter before eleven.  My rummages and business
sometimes occupy me uninterruptedly to those hours.  When they do
not, I give till ten to necessary letters of duty, ceremony, or
long arrears ;-and now, from ten to the times I have mentioned, I
devote to walking.  These times mentioned call me to the irksome
and quick-returning labours of the toilette.  The hour advanced
on the Wednesdays and Saturdays is for curling and craping the
hair, which it now requires twice a week.

A quarter before one is the usual time for the queen to begin
dressing for the day.  Mrs. Schwellenberg then constantly
attends; so do I; Mrs. Thielky, of course, at all times.  We help
her off with her gown, and on with her powdering things, and then
the hair-dresser is admitted.  She generally reads the newspaper
during that operation.

When she observes that I have run to her but half dressed, she
constantly gives me leave to return and finish -as soon as she is
seated.  If she is grave, and reads steadily on, she dismisses
me, whether I am dressed or not; but at all times she never
forgets to send me away while she is powdering, with a
consideration not to spoil my clothes, that one would not expect
belonged to her high station.  Neither does she ever detain me
without making a point of reading here and there some little
paragraph aloud.

When I return, I finish, if anything is undone, my dress, and
then take Baretti's "Dialogues," my dearest Fredy's "Tablet of
Memory," or some such disjointed matter, for the few minutes that
elapse ere I am again summoned.

I find her then always removed to her state dressing-room.  if
any room in this private mansion can have the epithet of
347

state.  There, in a very short time, her dress is finished.  She
then says she won't detain me, and I hear and see no more of her
till bed-time.

It is commonly three o'clock when I am thus set at large.  And I
have then two hours quite at my disposal: but, in the natural
course of things, not a moment after! These dear and quiet two
hours, my only quite sure and undisturbed time in the whole day,
after breakfast is over, I shall henceforth devote to thus
talking with my beloved Susan, my Fredy, and my other sisters, my
dear father, or Miss Cambridge; with my brothers, cousins, Mrs.
Ord, and other friends, in such terms as these two hours will
occasionally allow me.  Henceforward, I say; for hitherto
dejection of spirits, with uncertainty how long my time might
last, have made me waste moment after moment as sadly as
unprofitably.

At five, we have dinner.  Mrs. Schwellenberg and I meet in the
eating-room.  We are commonly t`ete-`a-t`ete: when there is
anybody added, it is from her invitation only.  Whatever right my
place might afford me of also inviting my friends to the table I
have now totally lost, by want of courage and spirits to claim it
originally.

When we have dined, we go upstairs to her apartment, which is
directly over mine.  Here we have coffee till the "terracing" is
over: this is at about eight o'clock.  Our t`ete-`a-t`ete then
finishes, and we come down again to the eating-room.  There the
equerry, whoever he is, comes to tea constantly, and with him any
gentleman that the king or queen may have invited for the
evening; and when tea is over, he conducts them, and goes
himself, to the concert-room.  This is commonly about nine
o'clock.

>From that time, if Mrs. Schwellenberg is alone, I never quit her
for a minute, till I come to my little supper at near eleven.
Between eleven and twelve my last summons usually takes place,
earlier and later occasionally.  Twenty minutes is the customary
time then spent with the queen: half an hour, I believe, is
seldom exceeded.

I then come back, and after doing whatever I can to forward MY
dress for the next morning, I go to bed-and to sleep, too,
believe me : the early rising, and a long day's attention to new
affairs and occupations, cause a fatigue so bodily, that nothing
mental stands against it, and to sleep I fall the moment I have
put Out my candle and laid down my head.

Such is the day to your F. B. in her new situation at Wind-
348

sor; such, I mean, is its usual destination, and its intended
course.  I make it take now and then another channel, but never
stray far enough not to return to the original stream after a
little meandering about and about it.

I think now you will be able to see and to follow me pretty
closely.

With regard to those summonses I speak of, I will now explain
myself.  My summons, upon all regular occasionsthat is, morning,
noon, and night toilets-is neither more nor less than a bell.
Upon extra occasions a page is commonly sent.  At first, I felt
inexpressibly discomfited by this mode of call.  A bell!--it
seemed so mortifying a mark of servitude, I always felt myself
blush, though alone, with conscious shame at my own strange
degradation.  But I have philosophized myself now into some
reconcilement with this manner of summons, by reflecting that to
have some person always sent would b often very inconvenient, and
that this method is certainly less an interruption to any
occupation I may be employed in, than the entrance of messengers
so many times in the day.  It is, besides, less liable to
mistakes.  So I have made up my mind to it as well as I can ; and
now I only feel that proud blush when somebody is by to revive my
original dislike of it.


                            THE PRINCEss ROYAL.

Tuesday, july 25.-I now begin my second week, with a scene a
little, not much, different.  We were now to go to Kew, there to
remain till Friday.

I had this morning, early, for the first time, a little visit
from one of the princesses.  I was preparing for my journey, when
a little rap at my room-door made me call out " Come in and who
should enter but the princess royal!

I apologised for my familiar admittance, by my little expectation
of such an honOUr.  She told me she had brought the queen's
snuff-box, to be filled with some snuff which I had been directed
to prepare.  It is a very fine-scented and mild snuff, but
requires being moistened from time to time, to revive its smell.
The princess, with a very sweet smile, insisted upon holding the
box while I filled it; and told me she had seen Mrs. Delany at
the chapel, and that she was very well; and then she talked on
about her, with a visible pleasure in having a subject so
interesting to me to open upon,
349

When the little commission was executed, she took her leave with
an elegant civility of manner as if parting with another king's
daughter.  I am quite charmed with the princess royal unaffected
condescension and native dignity are so happily blended in her
whole deportment.

She had left me but a short time before she again returned.
"Miss Burney," cried she, smiling with a look of congratulation,
"Mamma says the snuff is extremely well mixed; and she has sent
another box to be filled."

I had no more ready.  She begged me not to mind, and not to hurry
myself, for she would wait till it was done.


               THE COURT AT KEW: A THREE YEAR OLD PRINCESS.

Mrs. Schwellenberg, Miss Planta, and myself travelled to Kew
together.  I have two rooms there; both small, and up two pair of
stairs; but tidy and comfortable enough.  Indeed all the
apartments but the king's and queen's, and one of Mrs.
Schwellenberg's, are small, dark, and old-fashioned.  There are
staircases in every passage, and passages to every closet.  I
lost myself continually, only in passing from my own room to the
queen's.  just as I got upstairs, shown the way first by Miss
Planta, I heard the king's voice.  I slipped into my room ; but
he saw me, and following, said,

"What! is Miss Burney taking possession?"

 And then he walked round the room, as if to see if it were
comfortable for me, and smiling very good-humouredly, walked out
again.  A surveyor was with him,-- I believe he is giving orders
for some alterations and additions. . . .

When I went to the queen before dinner, the little Princess
Amelia was with her; and, though shy of me at first, we
afterwards made a very pleasant acquaintance.  She is a most
lovely little thing, just three years old, and full of sense,
spirit, and playful prettiness: yet decorous and dignified when
called upon to appear en princesse to any strangers, as if
conscious of her high rank, and of the importance of
condescendingly sustaining it.  'Tis amazing what education can
do, in the earliest years, to those of quick understandings.(205)
This little princess, thus in infancy, by practice and example,
taught her own consequence, conducts herself, upon all proper
occasions, with an

350

air of dignity that is quite astonishing, though her natural
character seems all sport and humour.


When we became a little acquainted, the queen desired me to take
her by the hand, and carry her downstairs to the king, who was
waiting for her in the garden.  She trusted herself to me with a
grave and examining look, and shewed me, for I knew it not, the
way.  The king, who dotes upon her, seemed good-humouredly
pleased to see me bring her.  He took her little hand and led her
away.


                      A DRAWING-ROOM AT ST. JAMES'S.

Thursday, July 27-This being a Court-day, we went to town.  The
queen dresses her head at Kew, and puts on her Drawing-room
apparel at St. James's.  Her new attendant dresses all at Kew,
except tippet and long ruffles, which she carries in paper, to
save from dusty roads.  I forgot to tell you, I believe, that at
St. James's I can never appear, even though I have nothing to do
with the Drawing-room, except in a sacque: 'tis the etiquette of
my place.

Mrs. Schwellenberg, Miss Planta, and myself went about an hour
before the king and queen.  Mrs. Schwellenberg went to the
queen's dressing-room to give orders about the dress, Miss Planta
went to the princesses' room for the same purpose, and I was
shewn to mine for no purpose.

Mine are two small rooms, newly and handsomely furnished, one of
which has a view of the park, over the stable-yard, and the other
only of the passage to the park from St. James'sstreet.  I had
now the great satisfaction to find that there was a private
staircase, from that same passage, that leads straight up to my
apartments, and also that I may appoint any friend to meet me in
them on the court-days.  I hope never to be there again without
making use of this privilege.

Having now neither companion nor book, I sent John, who came with
me to town, to borrow some writing implements of one of the
pages, and I employed myself in answering some letters, till the
queen arrived, and I was summoned, by Mrs. Leverick, the town
wardrobe woman, to the dressing-room.  There the queen put on her
court dress, and as soon as she was attired sent for the
princesses royal and Augusta, who came to attend her to the
Drawing-room.

Mr. Nicolay, the page in waiting, then came to beg a little
audience for the Duchess ofAncaster..  The queen went to her in
351

the ante-room - The moment I was left with the princesses, they
both came up to me, and began conversing in the most easy,
unaffected, cheerful, and obliging manner that can be conceived.

When the queen returned, the bell was rung for the bedchamber
woman; the etiquette of court-days requiring that one of them
should finish her dress.

It happened now to be my acquaintance, Mrs. Fielding.  She only
tied on the necklace, and handed the fan and gloves.  The queen
then leaves the dressing.room, her train being carried by the
bedchamber woman.  The princesses follow.  She goes to the
ante-room, where she sends for the lady of the bedchamber in
waiting, who then becomes the first train-bearer, and they all
proceed to the Drawing-room.

We returned to Kew to dinner, very late.



                         ABSENCE OF STATE AT KEW.

Friday, July 28.-The Kew life, you will perceive, is different
from the Windsor.  As there are no early prayers, the queen rises
later; and as there is no form or ceremony here of any sort, her
dress is plain, and the 'hour for the second toilette extremely
uncertain.  The royal family are here always in so very retired a
way, that they live as the simplest country gentlefolks.  The
king has not even an equerry with him, nor the queen any lady to
attend her when she goes her airings.

Miss Planta belongs here to our table; so does anybody that
comes, as there is no other kept. There is no excuse for parting
after dinner, and therefore I live unremittingly with Mrs.
Schwellenberg after the morning.

It is a still greater difficulty to see company here than at
Windsor, for as my apartments are upstairs, there is a greater
danger of encountering some of the royal family ; and I find all
the household are more delicate in inviting or admitting any
friends here than elsewhere, on account of the very easy and
unreserved way in which the family live, running about from one
end of the house to the other, without precaution or care.


                     Miss BURNEY'S FIRST EVENING OUT.

Windsor, July 28.-To-day I made my first evening visit,
 and for the first time failed Mrs. Schwellenberg's tea-table
entirely.  You will be surprised to hear for whom I took this
effort --Lady Effingham! But I found from Mrs. Delany
352

she had been a little hurt by the passage-scene, and seemed to
think I meant to avoid her future visits and civilities.
-Mrs. Delany, therefore, advised me to go to Stoke, her
country-seat, by way of apologizing, and to request the queen's
permission, Promising to carry me herself.

I never hesitate where she counsels.  I thought it, too, a good
opportunity of trying my length of liberty, as Lady Effingham is
one of the ladies of the bedchamber, and is frequently at the
Lodge as a private visitor.

It was inexpressibly awkward to me to ask leave to go out, and
awkwardly enough I believe I did it, only saying that if her
majesty had no objection, Mrs. Delany would carry me in the
evening to Stoke.  She smiled immediate approbation, and nothing
more passed.

I had then to tell my intention to Mrs. Schwellenberg who was, I
believe, a little surprised.  Fortunately, Major Price came
upstairs to coffee.  A little surprised, too, I am sure, was
Major Price, when I made off for the whole evening.  Everybody
had taken it for granted I must necessarily pursue the footsteps
of Mrs. Haggerdorn, and never stir out.  But, thank God, I am not
in the same situation ; she had no connections--I have such as no
one, I believe, ever had before.

The evening was rainy; but, my leave asked and obtained, my kind
Mrs. Delany would not defer the excursion.  Stoke is about three
miles off.

We were received in the civilest manner possible by Lady
Effingham, and Sir George Howard and Lady Frances.  There were
also several of their relations with them.  Lady Effingham seems
a mighty good-humoured, friendly woman.  Sir George is pompous,
yet he, too, is as good-humoured in his manners as his Lady.


               CASUAL CALLERS TO BE KEPT OFF: A NEw ARRIVAL.

July 31.-I had a very pleasant visit from Mrs. Hastings(206) this
morning, whose gay good-humour is very enlivening : but she
detained me from my dress, and I was not ready for the queen ;
and I have now adopted the measure of stationing John in the
gallery while I am at that noble occupation, and making him keep
off all callers, by telling them I am dressing

353

for the queen.  I have no other way ; and being too late, or even
the fear of being too late, makes me nervous and ill.

Every little failure of this sort, though always from causes
unknown to her majesty, she has borne without even a look of
surprise or of gravity ; though she never waits an instant, for
if Mrs. Schwellenberg is not with her, she employs Mrs. Thielky,
or goes on with her dress or her undress without either.

This graciousness, however, makes me but the more earnest to grow
punctual; especially as I am now always employed, when present
and in time.

I went in the afternoon to Mrs. de Luc.  When I returned here, to
the conclusion of the tea-drinking, I found a new gentleman,
dressed in the king's Windsor uniform-which is blue and gold,
turned up with red, and worn by all the men who belong to his
majesty, and come into his presence at Windsor.

Major Price immediately presented us to each other.  It was
General Bud`e: what his post may be I have not yet learned, but
he is continually, I am told, at Windsor, and always resides in
this Lodge, and eats with the equerries.

I do not quite know what to say of General Bud`e; except that his
person is tall and showy, and his manners and appearance are
fashionable.  But he has a sneer in his smile that looks
sarcastic, and a distance in his manner that seems haughty.


                           THE ROYAL PRINCESSES.

Wednesday, 2.--This morning, for the first time, I made a little
sort of acquaintance with the two younger princesses.  I was
coming from the queen's room, very early, when I met the Princess
Mary, just arrived from the lower Lodge: she was capering
upstairs to her elder sisters, but instantly stopped at sight of
me, and then coming up to me, inquired how I did, with all the
elegant composure of a woman of maturest age.  Amazingly well are
all these children brought up.  The readiness and the grace of
their civilities, even in the midst of their happiest wildnesses
and freedom, are at once a surprise and a charm to all who see
them.

The queen, when she goes to early prayers, often leaves me the
charge of her little favourite dog, Badine.  To-day, after her
return, she sent her page for him ; and presently after, I had a
rap again at the door, and the little Princess Sophia
354

entered.  "Miss Burney," cried she, curtseying and colouring,
"Mamma has sent me for the little dog's basket."

I begged her permission to carry it to the queen's room but she
would not suffer me, and insisted upon taking it herself, with a
mingled modesty and good breeding extremely striking in one so
young.

About half an hour after she returned again, accompanying the
princess royal.  The queen had given me a new collection of
German books, just sent over, to cut open for her; and she
employed the princess royal to label them.  She came most
smilingly to the occupation, and said she would write down their
names, " if I pleased," in my room.  You may believe I was not
much displeased.  I gave her a pencil, and she seized a piece of
whity-brown paper, inquiring "if she might have it?"--I would
fain have got her better, but she began writing immediately,
stooping to the table.

I was now in a momentary doubt whether or not 'It Would b(' -
proper, or too great a liberty, to ask her royal highness to be
seated ; but, after a moment's hesitation, I thought it best to
place her a chair, and say nothing.

I did ; and she turned about to me with a most graceful curtsey,
and immediately accepted it, with a most condescending apology
for my trouble.  I then, thus encouraged, put another chair for
the little Princess Sophia, who took it as sweetly.

"Pray sit down too," cried the princess royal: "I beg you will,
Miss Burney!"

I resisted a little while; but she would not hear me, insisting,
with the most obliging earnestness, upon carrying her point.

She writes German with as much facility as I do English and
therefore, the whole time she was taking down the titles of the
books, she kept up a conversation, Mrs. Delany her well and
kindly chosen subject.  When she had done her task, she quitted
me with the same sweetness, and the Princess Mary ran in for her
little sister.

The princess royal, not long after, again returned:--"There is no
end to me, you will think, this morning," cried she, on entering;
and then desired to have all the books I had cut open; nor would
she suffer me to carry one for her, though they were
incommodious, from their quantity, for herself.

Such has been the singular 'condescension of the queen, that
every little commission with which she has yet intrusted
355

me she has contrived to render highly honourable, by giving the
princesses some share in them.


                              ALARMING NEWS.

In the evening I had no little difficulty how to manage to go to
Mrs. Delany,--for I have here to mention the worst thing that has
happened to me at Windsor,-the desertion of Major Price from the
coffee.  The arrival of General Bud`e, who belongs to the
equerries' table, has occasioned his staying to do the honours to
him till terrace time.  At tea, they belong to Mrs.
Schwellenberg.

This has not only lost me some of his society, the most pleasant
I had had in the Lodge, but has trebled my trouble to steal away.
While I left him behind, the absconding from a beau was apology
all-sufficient for running away from a belle; but now I am doubly
wanted to stay, and too-doubly earnest to go! . . .

I went into my own room for my cloak, and, as usual, .found
Madame de la Fite just waiting for me.  She was all emotion,--she
seized my hand,--"Have you heard?--O mon Dieu!--O le bon Roi! O
Miss Burney!--what an horrreur!"

I was very much startled, but soon ceased to wonder at her
perturbation ;-she had been in the room with the Princess
Elizabeth, and there heard, from Miss Goldsworthy, that an
attempt had just been made upon the life of the king!

I was almost petrified with horror at the intelligence.  If this
king is not safe,-good, pious, beneficent as he is,.-if his life
is in danger, from his own subjects, what is to guard the throne?
and which way is a monarch to be secure?

Madame de la Fite had heard of the attempt only, not the
particulars; but I was afterwards informed of them in the most
interesting manner,--namely, how they were related to the queen.
And as the newspapers will have told you all else, I shall only
and briefly tell that.

No information arrived here of the matter before his majesty's
return, at the usual hour in the afternoon, from the levee.  The
Spanish minister had hurried off instantly to Windsor, and was in
waiting, at Lady Charlotte Finch's, to be ready to assure her
majesty of the king's safety, in case any report anticipated his
return.

The queen had the two eldest princesses, the Duchess of Ancaster,
and Lady Charlotte Bertie with her when the king
356

came in.  He hastened up to her, with a countenance of striking
vivacity, and said, " Here I am !-safe and well,-as you see !-but
I have very narrowly escaped being stabbed!"

His own conscious safety, and the pleasure he felt in thus
personally shewing it to the queen, made him not aware of the
effect of so abrupt a communication.  The queen was seized with a
consternation that at first almost stupefied her, and after a
most painful silence, the first words she could articulate were,
in looking round at the duchess and Lady Charlotte, who had both
burst into tears,-" I envy you !-I can't cry!"

The two princesses were for a little while in the same state but
the tears of the duchess proved infectious, and they then' wept
even with violence.


                       THE ATTEMPT AGAINST THE KING.

The king, with the gayest good-humour, did his utmost to comfort
them ; and then gave a relation of the affair, with a calmness
and unconcern that, had any one but himself been his hero, would
have been regarded as totally unfeeling.

You may have heard it wrong; I will concisely tell it right.  His
carriage had just stopped at the garden-door at St. James's, and
he had just alighted from it, when a decently-dressed woman, who
had been waiting for him some time, approached him, with a
petition.  It was rolled up, and had the usual superscription--
"For the king's most excellent majesty." She presented it with
her right hand; and at the same moment that the king bent forward
to take it, she drew from it, with her left hand, a knife, with
which she aimed straight at his heart.

The fortunate awkwardness of taking the instrument with the left
hand made her design perceived before it could be executed;--the
king started back, scarce believing the testimony of his own
eyes; and the woman made a second thrust, which just touched his
waistcoat before he had time to prevent her;--and at that moment
one of the attendants, seeing her horrible intent, wrenched the
knife from her hand.

"Has she cut my waistcoat?" cried he, in telling it,--Look! for I
have had no time to examine."

Thank heaven, however, the poor wretch had not gone quite so far.
"Though nothing," added the king, in giving his relation, "could
have been sooner done, for there was nothing for her to go
through but a thin linen, and fat."
357

While the guards and his own people now surrounded the
king, the assassin was seized by the populace, who were tearing
her away, no doubt to fall the instant sacrifice of her
murtherous purpose, when the king, the only calm and moderate
person then present, called aloud to the mob, "The poor creature
is mad!--Do not hurt her!  She has not hurt me!"

He then came forward, and showed himself to all the people,
declaring he was perfectly safe and unhurt; and then gave
positive orders that the woman should be taken care of, and went
into the palace, and had his levee.(207)

There is something in the whole of his behaviour upon this
occasion that strikes me as proof indisputable of a true and
noble courage : for in a moment so extraordinary-an attack, in
this country, unheard of before-to settle so instantly that it
was the effect of insanity, to feel no apprehension of private
plot or latent conspiracy-to stay out, fearlessly, among his
people, and so benevolently to see himself to the safety of one
who had raised her arm against his life,--these little traits,
all impulsive, and therefore to be trusted, have given me an
impression of respect and reverence that I can never forget, and
never think of but with fresh admiration.

If that love of prerogative, so falsely assigned, were true, what
an opportunity was here offered to exert it! Had he instantly
taken refuge in his palace, ordered out all his guards, stopped
every avenue to St. james's, and issued his commands that every
individual present at this scene should be secured and
examined,-who would have dared murmur, or even blame such
measures? The insanity of the woman has now fully been proved ;
but that noble confidence which gave that instant excuse for her
was then all his own.


                  AGITATION OF THE QUEEN AND PRINCESSES.

Nor did he rest here; notwithstanding the excess of terror for
his safety, and doubt of further mischief, with which all his

358

family and all his household were seized, he still maintained the
most cheerful composure, and insisted upon walking on the
terrace, with no other attendant than his single equerry.

The poor queen went with him, pale and silent,-the princesses
followed, scarce yet commanding their tears.  In the evening,
just as usual, the king had his concert : but it was an evening
of grief and horror to his family: nothing was listened to,
scarce a word was spoken ; the princesses wept continually; the
queen, still more deeply struck, could only, from time to time,
hold out her hand to the king, and say, "I have you yet!"

The affection for the king felt by all his household has been at
once pleasant and affecting to me to observe : there has not been
a dry eye in either of the Lodges, on the recital of his danger,
and not a face but his own that has not worn marks of care ever
since.

I put off my visit to my dear Mrs. Delany; I was too much
horror-struck to see her immediately; and when, at night, I went
to her, I determined to spare her the shock of this event till
the next day. . . .  General Bud`e and Major Price were with Mrs.
Schwellenberg at my return; and not a word was uttered by either
of them concerning the day's terrific alarm.  There seemed
nothing but general consternation and silence.

When I went to the queen at night she scarce once opened her
lips.  Indeed I could not look at her without feeling the tears
ready to start into my eyes.  But I was very glad to hear again
the voice of the king, though only from the next apartment, and
calling to one of his dogs.

August 3-The poor queen looked so ill that it was easy to see how
miserable had been her night.  It is unfortunately the
unalterable opinion of Mrs. Schwellenberg that some latent
conspiracy belongs to this attempt, and therefore that it will
never rest here.  This dreadful suggestion preys upon the mind of
the queen, though she struggles to conquer or conceal it.  I
longed passionately this morning, when alone with her, to speak
upon the matter, and combat the opinion.; but as she still said
nothing, it was not possible.

When she was dressed for the chapel, she desired me to keep
little Badine; but he ran out after her: I ran too, and in the
gallery, leading from the queen's room to mine, all the
princesses, and their governesses, were waiting for the queen.
They all looked very ill, the princess royal particularly.--O
well indeed might they tremble! for a father more tender,
359

more kind, more amiable, I believe has scarcely ever had
daughters to bless. . . .

I then passed on to my own room, which terminates this gallery.
But I have since heard it is contrary to rule to pass even the
door of an apartment in which any of the royal family happen to
be, if it is open.  However, these little formalities are all
dispensed with to the ignorant - and as I learn better I shall
observe them more.  I am now obliged to feel and find my way as I
can, having no friend, adviser, nor informer in the whole house.
Accident only gives me any instruction, and that generally
arrives too late to save all error.  My whole dependence is upon
the character of the queen ; her good sense and strong reason
will always prevent the unnecessary offence of ranking mistakes
from inexperience, with disrespect or inattention.  I have never,
therefore, a moment's uneasiness upon these points.  Though there
is a lady who from time to time represents them as evils the most
heinous.(208)

I had afterwards a letter from my poor Mrs. Delany, written with
her own hand, and with a pencil, as she is now too indistinct of
sight to see even a word.  She writes therefore only by memory,
and, if with pen and ink, cannot find her place again when she
leaves it, to dip the pen in the inkstand.

She had escaped the news at the chapel, but had been told it
afterwards by Lady Spencer, lest it should reach her ears in any
worse manner.  You may imagine how greatly it shocked her.

I ran to answer her note in person, determining, upon such an
occasion, to risk appearing before the queen a second time in my
morning dress, rather than not satisfy my dear Mrs. Delany by
word of mouth.  I gave her all the comfort in my power, and
raised her agitated spirits by dwelling upon the escape, and
slightly passing by the danger.

The queen was so late before her second summons that I was still
in time.  I found her with her eyes almost swollen out of her
head, but more cheerful and easy, and evidently relieved by the
vent forced, at length, to her tears.

She now first spoke upon the subject to me; inquiring how Mrs.
Delany had borne the hearing it.  I told her of the letter sent
me in the morning, and half proposed shewing it, as it expressed
her feelings beyond the power of any other words.  She bowed her
desire to see it, and I ran and brought

360

it.  She read it aloud, Mrs. Schwellenberg being present, and was
pleased and soothed by it.



                          A PRIVILEGE IS SECURED.

A little incident happened afterwards that gave me great
satisfaction in perspective.  While I was drinking coffee with
Mrs. Schwellenberg, a message was brought to me, that Mrs. and
Miss Heberden(209) desired their compliments, and would come to
drink tea with me if I was disengaged.

To drink tea with me!  The words made me colour.  I hesitated,--I
knew not if I might accept such an offer.  With regard to
themselves, I had little or no interest in it, as they were
strangers to me, but with regard to such an opening to future
potentiality,--there, indeed, the message acquired consequence.
After keeping the man some minutes, I was so much at a loss,
still, to know what step I had power to take, that I was induced
to apply to Mrs. Schwellenberg, asking her what I must do.

"What you please!" was her answer; and I waited nothing more
explicit, but instantly sent back my compliments, and that I
should be very glad of their company.

This was a most happy event to me : it first let me know the
possibility of receiving a friend in my own room to tea.

They left me before the tea-party assembled in our common room.
It was very much crowded, everybody being anxious to hear news of
the queen.  When they were all gone but Mrs. Delany, Mrs.
Schwellenberg made us both very happy by a private communication
that the Prince of Wales was actually then in the Lodge, whither
he rode post haste, on the first news of the alarm given to the
queen.


THE QUEEN CONTINUES ANXIOUS.

Friday, Aug. 4-This was an extremely arduous morning to the poor
queen.  The king again went to town ; and her anxiety in his
absence, and fear how it might end, oppressed her most painfully.
She could not take her usual airing.  She shut herself up with
the Princess Augusta ; but, to avoid any rumours of her
uneasiness, the carriage and usual horsemes were all at the door
at the customary time ; and the princess

361

royal, attended by the Duchess of Ancaster, went out, and passed,
driving quick through the town, for the queen herself, to most of
the people.

At her toilette, before dinner, Lady Effingham was admitted.  The
queen had her newspapers as usual, and she read aloud, while her
hair was dressing, several interesting articles concerning the
attack, the noble humanity of the king, his presence of mind, and
the blessing to the whole nation arising from his preservation.
The spirit of loyalty, warmth, and zeal with which all the
newspapers are just now filled seemed extremely gratifyin- to her
; she dwelt upon several of the strongest expressions with marked
approbation, exclaiming from time to time, as she read particular
praises of his majesty's worth and importance, "That is true!-
-That is true, indeed!"  But suddenly, afterwards, coming upon a
paragraph beginning with the words of the coronation anthem,
"Long live the king! May the king live for ever!" her tears
flowed so fast that they blinded her, and to hear her read such
words was so extremely affecting, that I was obliged to steal
behind her chair to hide myself; while Lady Effingham took out
her handkerchief, and cried in good earnest.  I believe her to be
warmly and gratefully attached both to the king and queen and she
has received from the queen very uncommon assistance, I am
informed, in some very distressful Situations.

The queen, however, read on; dispersing her tears as she could,
and always smiling through them when the praise, not the danger,
drew them forth.

Nothing could be more gracious than her manner to me the whole
time - she (lid not, as usual, dismiss me, either for her
hair-dressing, or for Lady Effingham; she was sure I must be
interested in what was going forward, and she looked at us
alternately, for our comments, as she went on.

I rejoiced she had not set me to read these papers.  I expected,
for the first week, every summons would have ended in a command
to read to her.  But it never happened, and I was saved an
exertion for which I am sure I should have had no voice.



                         SNUFF PREPARER-IN- CHIEF.

Sunday, Au,-. 6-This morning, before church, Miss Planta was sent
to me by the queen, for some snuff, to be mixed as before : when
I had prepared it, I carried it, as directed, to her majesty's
dressing-room.  I turned round the lock, for that, not
362

rapping at the door, is the mode of begging admission; and she
called out to me to come in.

I found her reading, aloud, some religious book, but I could not
discover what, to the three eldest princesses.  Miss Planta was
in waiting.  She continued after my entrance, only motioning to
me that the snuff might be put into a box on the table.

I did not execute my task very expeditiously: for I was glad of
this opportunity of witnessing, the maternal piety with which she
enforced, in voice and expression, every sentence that contained
any lesson that might be useful to her royal daughters.  She
reads extremely well, with great force, clearness, and meaning.

just as I had slowly finished my commission, the king entered.
She then stopped, and rose ; so instantly did the princesses.  He
had a letter in his hand open: he said something to the queen in
German, and they left the room together but he turned round from
the door, and first spoke to me, with a good-humoured laugh,
saying, "Miss Burney, I hear you cook snuff very well!"

"Cook snuff!" repeated the Princess Augusta, laughing and coming
up to me the moment they left the room.  "Pray, Miss Burney, let
me have one pinch!"  The Princess Elizabeth ran up to me, also,
exclaiming, "Miss Burney, I hope you hate snuff?  I hope you do,
for I hate it of all things in the world!"


                             A SUPPER MYSTERY.

After tea, one of Mrs. Schwellenberg's domestics called me out of
the room.  John waited to speak to me in the gallery.  "What
time, ma'am," cried he, "shall you have your Supper?"

"What supper?" cried I.  "I only eat fruit, as usual."

"Have not you ordered supper, ma'am, for to-night?

"No."

"There is one cooking for you--a fowl and peas."

"It's some great mistake; run down and tell them so."

I returned to the company, and would have related the adventure,
had I been in spirits; but voluntary speech escaped me not.
Where I am not happy, or forced to it, it never does.  Presently
I was called out again.
363

"Ma'am," cried John, "the supper is ordered in your name.  I saw
the order--the clerk of the kitchen gave it in."

This was the most ridiculous thing I ever heard.  I desired him
to run down forthwith, and inquire by whose directions all this
was done.  He came back, and said, "By Sir Francis Drake's."  Sir
Francis Drake is, I think, steward of the housebold.  I then
desired John to interfere no more, but let the matter be pursued
in their own way.

As soon as the company was gone, all but a Miss Mawer, who is on
a visit to Mrs. Schwellenberg, I told my tale.  Mrs.Schwellenberg
said the orders had been hers, that a hot supper belonged to my
establishment, and that sometimes she might come and eat it with
me.

I had now not a word to add.  At ten o'clock both she and Miss
Mawer accompanied me to my room.  Miss Mawer is an old maid;
tall, thin, sharp-featured, hurrying and disagreeable in her
manner, but, I believe, good-natured and good-hearted, from all I
have observed in her.  The smell of the meat soon grew offensive
to Mrs. Schwellenberg, who left me with Miss Mawer.  As I never
eat any myself at night, all I could devise to make the perfume
tolerable was to consider it as an oppor'tunity for a lesson in
carving: so I went to work straightforward to mangle my unbidden
guest, for the use and service of Miss Mawer.

Soon after, I was delighted and surprised by the entrance of Mrs.
Delany, ushered to my room by Major Price.  The concert being
over, and the royal family retired to supper, she
would not go away without seeing me.  I thanked the major for
bringing me so sweet a guest, but I almost fear he expected to be
invited in with her.  I am sure I could have had nothing but
pleasure from his joining us; but I had made a rule, on my thus
first setting up for myself, to invite no man whatsoever, young,
old, married, single, acquaintance or stranger, till I knew
precisely the nature of my own situation : for I had been warned
by an excellent friend, Mrs. de Luc, on my first entrance into
office that there was no drawing back in a place such as this;
and that therefore I ought studiously to keep back, till I felt
my way, and knew, experimentally, what I could do, and what I
should wish to leave alone.  This advice has been of singular use
to me, in a thousand particulars, from the very first to the
present day of my abode in this Lodge.
364

                    LITTLE PRINCESs AMELIA's BIRTHDAY.

Monday, Aug. 7-This has been the first cheerful day since the
memorable and alarming attack of the 2nd of August.  It was the
birthday of the little Princess Amelia : and the fond ness of the
whole family for that lovely child, and her own infantine
enjoyment of the honours paid her, have revived the spirits of
the whole house.

The manner of keeping the birth-days here is Very simple.  All
the royal family are new-dressed; so--at least so they appear-
-are all their attendants.  The dinners and desserts are
unusually sumptuous ; and some of the principal officers of
state, and a few of the ladies of the Court, come to Windsor to
make their compliments; and at night there is a finer concert, by
an addition from town of the musicians belonging to the queen's
band.  If the weather is fine, all the family walk upon the
Terrace, which is crowded with people of distinction, who take
that mode of showing respect, to avoid the trouble and fatigue of
attending at the following Drawing-room.

Another method, too, which is taken to express joy and attachment
upon these occasions, is by going to the eight o'clock prayers at
the royal chapel.  The congregation all assemble, after the
service, in the opening at the foot of the great stairs which the
royal family descend from their gallery, and there those who have
any pretensions to notice scarce ever fail to meet with it.

 To-day, this staircase Drawing-room, as it is named by Major
Price, was very much crowded; and it was a sweet sight to me,
from my windows, to see that the royal group-respectfully
followed by many people of distinction, who came on the occasion,
and, at a still greater distance, encircled by humbler, but not
less loyal congratulators-had their chief attention upon my dear,
aged, venerable Mrs. Delany, who was brought in by the king and
queen, to partake with them the birth-day breakfast.

In the evening, for the first time since my arrival, I went upon
the Terrace, under the wing and protection of my dear Mrs.
Delany, who was tempted to walk there herself, in order to pay
her respects on the little princess's birth-day.  She was carried
in her chair to the foot of the steps.  Mrs. Delany was desirous
to save herself for the royal encounter : she thereFore sat down
on the first seat till the royal party appeared 'In sight: we
then, of course, stood up.
365

It was really a mighty pretty procession.  The little princess,
just turned of three years old, in a robe-coat covered with fine
muslin, a dressed close cap, white gloves, and a fan, walked on
alone and first, highly delighted in the parade, and turning from
side to side to see everybody as she passed : for all the
terracers stand up against the walls, to make a clear passage for
the royal family, the moment they come in sight.  Then followed
the king and queen, no less delighted themselves with the joy of
their little darling.  The princess royal, leaning on Lady
Elizabeth Waldegrave, followed at a little distance.  This
princess, the second female in the kingdom, shews, I think, more
marked respect and humility towards the king and queen than any
of the family.

Next the Princess Augusta, holding by the Duchess of Ancaster;
and next the Princess Elizabeth, holding by Lady Charlotte
Bertie.  Office here takes place of rank, which occasioned Lady
Elizabeth Waldegrave, as lady of her bedchamber, to walk with the
princess royal.

Then followed the Princess Mary with Miss Goldsworthy, and the
Princess Sophia with Mademoiselle Monmoulin and Miss Planta then
General Bud`e and the Duke of Montagu and, lastly, Major Price,
who, as equerry, always brings up the rear, walks at a distance
from the group, and keeps off all crowd from the royal family.

On sight of Mrs. Delany, the king instantly stopped to speak to
her.  The queen, of course, and the little princess, and all the
rest, stood still, in their ranks.  They talked a good while with
the sweet old lady; during which time the king once or twice
addressed himself to me.  I caught the queen's eye, and saw in it
a little surprise, but by no means any displeasure, to see me of
the party.

The little princess went up to Mrs. Delany, of whom she is very
fond, and behaved like a little angel to her: she then, with a
look of inquiry and recollection, slowly, of her own accord, came
behind Mrs. Delany to look at me.  "I am afraid," said I, in a
whisper, and stooping down, "your royal highness does not
remember me?"

What think you was her answer?  An arch little smile, and a
nearer approach, with her lips pouted out to kiss me.  I could
not resist so innocent an invitation, but the moment I had
accepted it, I was half afraid it might seem, in so public a
place, an improper liberty: however, there was no help for it.
she then took my fan, and, having looked at

366

it on both sides, gravely returned it me, saying, "O! a brown
fan!"

The king and queen then bid her curtsey to Mrs. Delany which she
did most gracefully, and they all moved on; each of the
princesses speaking to Mrs. Delany as they passed, and
condescending to curtsey to her companion.


                       THE CIPHER BECOMES A NUMBER.

Mrs. Delany was too much fatigued to return to the Lodge to tea;
but Mrs. Fielding and her three daughters, L ord Courtown, Mr.
Fisher, the general, and the major, made up our set.

Mrs. Schwellenberg was very ill.  She declined making tea, and
put it into the hands of' the general.  I had always kept back
from that office, as well as from presiding at the table, that I
might keep the more quiet, and be permitted to sit silent; which,
at first, was a repose quite necessary to my depressed state of
spirits, and which, as they grew better, I found equally
necessary to keep off the foul fiends of Jealousy and Rivalry in
my colleague; who, apparently, never wishes to hear my voice but
when we are t`ete-`a-t`ete, and then never is in good-humour when
it is at rest.  I could not, however, see this feminine
occupation in masculine hands, and not, for shame, propose taking
it upon myself.  The general readily relinquished it, and I was
fain to come forth and do the honours.

Lord Courtown sat himself next me, and talked with me the whole
time, in well-bred and pleasant discourse.  The Major waited upon
me as assiduously as if he had been as much my equerry as the
king's, and all went smooth, well, and naturally, except that the
poor sick lady grew evidently less and less pleased with the
arrangement of things, and less and less in humour with its
arrangers: so obvious, indeed, was the displeasure that the
cipher should become a number, that had my own mind been easy, I
should have felt much vexed to observe what a curb was placed
over me: for hitherto, except when she had been engaged herself,
and only to Major Price and Mr. Fisher, that cipher had "word
spoke never one." 'Tis wonderful, my dearest Susan, what wretched
tempers are to be met with--wretched in and to themselves--
wretched to and for all that surround them.  However, while only
to be Stupid and silent will do, we shall not be at variance.
Were I
367

happier, perhaps I might comply with more difficulty; so be not
sorry, my Susan, nor you, my sweet Fredy, if, bye-and-bye, You
should hear me complain.  It will be a very good sign.


                     DISPLAY OF LOYALTY AT LITTLE KEW.

Aug. 8.-An exceedingly pretty scene was exhibited to-day to their
majesties.  We came, as usual on every alternate Tuesday, to Kew.
The queen's Lodge is at the end of a long meadow, surrounded with
houses, which is called Kew green ; and this was quite filled
with all the inhabitants of the place-- the lame, old, blind,
sick, and infants, who all assembled, dressed in their Sunday
garb, to line the sides of the roads through which their
majesties passed, attended by a band of musicians, arranged in
the front, who began "God save the King!" the moment they came
upon the green, and finished it with loud huzzas.  This was a
compliment at the expense of the better inhabitants, who paid the
musicians themselves, and mixed in with the group, which indeed
left not a soul, I am told, in any house in the place.

This testimony of loyal.satisfaction in the king's safe return,
after the attempted assassination, affected the queen to tears :
nor were they shed alone; for almost everybody's flowed that
witnessed the scene.  The queen, speaking of it afterwards, said,

"O! I shall always love little Kew for this!"


               MISS BERNAR, THE QUEEN WILL GIVE YOU A GOWN."

At the second toilette   to-day, Mrs. Schwellenberg, who left the
dressing-room before me, called out at the door, "Miss Bernar,
when you have       done from the queen, come to my room."

There was something rather more peremptory in the order than was
quite pleasant     to me, and I rather drily answered, "Very
well, Mrs. Schwellenberg."

The queen was even uncommonly sweet and gracious in her manner
after this lady's departure, and kept me with her some time after
she was dressed.  I never go rom her presence till I am
dismissed; no one does, not even when they come in only with a
hurried message,--except the pages, who enter merely as
messengers, and Mrs. Schwellenberg, whose place and illness
together have given her that privilege.
368

The general form of the dismission, which you may perhap's be
curious to hear, is in these words, "Now I Will let You go,"
which the queen manages to speak with a grace that takes from
them all air of authority.

At first, I must confess, there was something inexpressibly
awkward to me, in waiting to be told to go, instead of watching
an opportunity, as elsewhere, for taking leave before I thought
myself de trop: but I have since found that this is, to me, a
mark of honour; as it is the established custom to people of the
first rank, the princesses themselves included, and only not used
to the pages and the wardrobe-women, who are supposed only to
enter for actual business, and therefore to retire when it is
finished, without expectation of being detained to converse, or
beyond absolute necessity.

I give you all these little details of interior royalty, because
they are curious, from opening a new scene of life, and can only
be really known by interior residence.

When I went to Mrs. Schwellenberg, she said, "You might know I
had something to say to you, by my calling you before the queen."
She then proceeded to a long prelude, which I could but ill
comprehend, save that it conveyed much of obligation on my part,
and favour on hers; and then ended with, "I might tell you now,
the queen is going to Oxford, and you might go with her; it is a
secret--you might not tell it nobody.  But I tell you once, I
shall do for you what I can; you are to have a gown."

I stared, and drew back, with a look so undisguised of wonder and
displeasure at this extraordinary speech, that I saw it was
understood, and she then thought it time, therefore, to name her
authority, which with great emphasis, she did thus: "The queen
will give you a gown!  The queen says you are not rich," etc.

There Was something in the manner of this quite intolerable to
me, and I hastily interrupted her with saying, "I have two new
gowns by me, and therefore do not require another."

Perhaps a proposed present from her majesty was never so received
before; but the grossness of the manner of the messenger
swallowed up the graciousness of the design in the principal: and
I had not even a wish to conceal how little it was to my taste.

The highest surprise sat upon her brow; she had imagined that a
gown--that any present-would have been caught at with obsequious
avidity,--but indeed she was mistaken.
369

Seeing the wonder and displeasure now hers, I calmly
added, "The queen is very good, and I am very sensible of her
majesty's graciousness; but there is not, in this instance, the
least occasion for it."

"Miss Bernar," cried she, quite angrily, "I tell you once, when
the queen will give you a gown, you must be humble, thankful,
when you are Duchess of Ancaster."

She then enumerated various ladies to whom her majesty had made
the same present, many of them of the first distinction, and all,
she said, great secrets.  Still I only repeated again the same
speech.

I can bear to be checked and curbed in discourse, and would
rather be subdued into silence-and even, if that proves a
gratification that secures peace and gives pleasure, into
apparent insensibility ; but to receive a favour through the
vehicle of insolent ostentation--no! no!  To submit to ill humour
rather than argue and dispute I think an exercise of patience,
and I encourage myself all I can to practice it : but to accept
even a shadow of an obligation upon such terms I should think
mean and unworthy ; and therefore I mean always, in a Court as I
would elsewhere, to be open and fearless in declining such
subjection.

When she had finished her list of secret ladies, I told her I
must beg to speak to the queen, and make my own acknowledgments
for her gracious intention.

This she positively forbid ; and said it must only pass through
her hands.  "When I give you the gown," she added, "I will tell
you when you may make your curtsey."

I was not vexed at this prohibition, not knowing what etiquette I
might offend by breaking it; and the conversation concluded with
nothing being settled.

How little did the sweet queen imagine that this her first mark
of favour should so be offered me as to raise in me my first
spirit of resistance ! How differently would she have executed
her own commission herself! To avoid exciting jealousy was, I
doubt not, her motive for employing another.


                          A CROWDED DRAWING-ROOM.

Aug. 10.-I journeyed to town, with Mrs. Schwellenberg and Miss
Planta; and this morning I was employed for the first time on a
message to the queen.  I was in the ante-room, when Mr. Nicolay,
her majesty's page at St. James's, came and
370

told me the Duchess of Ancaster sent her humble duty to the
queen, and begged an audience before the Drawing-room.  I told
the queen, who, when dressed, all but her necklace, received the
duchess in the ante-room.

I mention all these little ceremonies as they occur, that
hereafter I may have no occasion, when they lead to other
matters,, to explain them.

The bedchamber woman was rung for on the queen's return.  So you
see I am not the only one to answer a bell.  It was Mrs.
Fielding, who looked at me with an attention that will not leave
her much in doubt as to my dress, at least, though she could not
speak.  I have told you, I believe, that no one, not even the
princesses, ever speak in the presence of the king and queen, but
to answer what is immediately said by themselves.  There are,
indeed, occasions in which this is set aside, from particular
encouragement given at the moment; but it is not less a rule, and
it is one very rarely infringed.

When the Drawing-room began, I went to my own room
and there I had the great happiness of finding my father, who had
contrived to be in town purposely, and to whom I had sent John,
in St. Martin's-street, that he might be shown the straight way
to my apartment.  He had determined upon going to the
Drawing-room himself, to manifest, amongst the general zeal of
the times, his loyal joy in his majesty's safety.

The drawing-room was over very late indeed.  So anxious has been
the whole nation to show their affectionate attachment to the
king, that this, the first Drawing-room since his danger, was as
splendid, and as much crowded, as upon a birthday.  When the
queen summoned me, upon returning to her dressing-room, and
mentioned how full and how hot it had been, I ventured to say, "
I am very glad of it, ma'am; it was an honest crowd to-day."



               THE KEEPER OF THE ROBES IS VERY MUCH PUT OUT.

At tea I found a new uniform.  Major Price, immediately
introduced me to him; he was Colonel Fairly.(210)  He is a man of
the most scrupulous good-breeding, diffident, gentle, and
sentimental in his conversation, and assiduously attentive in

371

his manners.  He married Lady ---, and I am told he is a most
tender husband to her.

A very unfortunate subject happened to be started during our tea;
namely, the newspaper attacks upon Mrs. Hastings.  The colonel,
very innocently, said he was very sorry that lady was ever
mentioned in the same paragraph with her majesty.  Mrs.
Schwellenberg indignantly demanded "Why?--where?--when? and
what?"

Unconscious of her great friendship for Mrs. Hastings, the
colonel, unfortunately, repeated his concern, adding, "Nothing
has hurt me so much as the queen's being ever named in such
company."

The most angry defence was now made, but in so great a storm.  of
displeasure, and confusion of language, that the colonel, looking
utterly amazed, was unable to understand what was the matter.
Major Price and myself were both alarmed; Miss Port longed to
laugh; Miss Mawer sat perfectly motionless; Mrs. Fisher decidedly
silent.  No one else was present.  The colonel, whenever he could
be heard, still persisted in his assertion, firmly, though
gently, explaining the loyalty of his motives.

This perseverance increased the storm, which now blew with
greater violence, less and less distinct as more fierce.  Broken
sentences were all that could be articulated.  "You might not say
such thing!"--"Upon my vord!"--"I tell you once!"--"colonel
what-you-call, I am quite warm!"--"Upon my vord!--I tell you the
same!"--"You might not tell me such thing!"--"What for you say
all that?"

As there was nothing in this that could possibly clear the
matter, and the poor colonel only sunk deeper and deeper, by not
understanding the nature of his offence, Major Price now
endeavoured to interfere ; and, as he is a great favourite, he
was permitted not only to speak, but to be heard.

"Certainly," said he, "those accounts about Mrs. Hastings, and
the history of her divorce, are very unpleasant anecdotes in
public newspapers; and I am sorry, too, that they should be told
in the same paragraph that mentions her being received by the
queen."

Nothing could equal the consternation with which.  this
unexpected speech was heard.  "Upon my vord!  You sorprise me!"
was all that could now be got out.

As I found them now only running further from general
comprehension, I felt so sorry that poor Mrs. Hastings, whom I
372

believe to be a most injured woman, should so ill be defended
even by her most zealous friend, that I compelled myself to the
exertion of coming forward, now, in her behalf myself, and I
therefore said, it was a thousand pities her story should' not be
more accurately made known: as the mode of a second marriage from
a divorce was precisely the contrary here of what it was in
Germany; since here it could only take place upon misconduct, and
there, I had been told, a divorce from misconduct prohibited a
second marriage, which could only be permitted where the divorce
was the mere effect of disagreement from dissimilar tempers.
Mrs. Hastings, therefore, though acquitted of ill-behaviour by
the laws of her own country seemed, by those of England,
convicted; and I could not but much regret that her vindication
was not publicly made by this explanation.

"So do I, too," cried Major Price "for I never heard this
before."

"Nor I," cried the colonel "and indeed it ought to be made known,
both for the sake of Mrs. Hastings, and because she has been
received at Court, which gave everybody the greatest surprise,
and me, in my ignorance, the greatest concern, on account of the
queen."'

This undid all again, though my explanation had just stilled the
hurricane; but now it began afresh.

"You might not say that, Colonel Fairly; you might not name the
queen!--O, I can't bear it!--I tell you once it is too moch!--
What for you tell me that?"

"Ma'am, I--I only said--It is not me, ma'am, but the newspapers."

"What for you have such newspapers?--I tell you the same--it is-
-what you call--I don't like such thing!"

"But, ma'am--"

"O, upon my vord, I might tell you once, when you name the queen,
it is--what you call--I can't bear it!--when it is nobody else,
with all my heart! I might not care for that--but when it is the
queen,--I tell you the same, Colonel Fairly--it makes me--what
you call--perspire."

The major again interfered, saying it was now all cleared up, by
the account of the difference of the German customs, and
therefore that it was all very well.  A certain quiet, but yet
decisive way, in which he sometimes speaks, was here very
successful ; and as the lady stopped, the colonel saw all
explanation too desperate to aim at further argument.


(203) Dr. Burney's daughter by his second wife-ED.

(204) Sir Thomas Clarges, whose wife was a dear friend of Susan
Burney.  Sir Thomas died in December, 1782.  In the "Early Diary"
he is mentioned once or twice, as a visitor at Dr. Burney's.
Fanny writes of him in May, 1775, as "a young baronet, who was
formerly so desperately enamoured of Miss Linley, now Mrs.
Sheridan, that his friends made a point of his going abroad to
recover himself: he is now just returned from italy, and I hope
cured.  He still retains all the schoolboy English mauvaise
honte; scarce speaks but to make an answer, and is as shy as if
his last residence had been at Eton instead of Paris.-ED.

(205)  'Tis amazing what nonsense sensible people can write, when
their heads are turned by cunsiderations of rank and
flummery!-ED.

(206) The wife of Warren Hastings.  Fanny had made the
acquaintince of Mr. and Mrs. Hastings from her friend Mr.
Cambridge, some months previously. (See note (201), ante, P.
327).-ED.

(207 The name of the poor woman was Margaret Nicholson.  She was,
of course, insane, and had, a few days previously, presented a
petition, which had probably been left unread at the time, but
which turned out on investigation to be full of incoherent
nonsense.  On her examination before the Privy Council she
declared that "the crown was hers, and that if she had not her
rights England would be deluged with blood." She was ultimately
consigned to Bedlam.-ED.

(208) Fanny's bitter experience of Mrs. Schwellenberg is now
commencing.-ED.

(209)  The wife and daughter of Dr. William Heberden, an eminent
physician, and author of "Medical Commentaries on the History and
Cure of Disease."  Fanny had met these ladies recently at Mrs.
Delany's-ED.

(210) "Colonel Fairly" is the name given in the "Diary" to the
Hon. Stephen Digby.    His first wife, Lady Lucy Strangwayes Fox,
youngest daughter of Lord Ilchester, died in 1787. He married, in
1790, Miss Gunning, "Miss Fuzilier," of the "Diary."--ED.




373

                                 SECTION 8
                                  (1786.)


                    ROYAL VISIT TO NUNEHAM, OXFORD AND
                                 BLENHEIM.

                            A JOB'S COMFORTER.

Aug. 12, Saturday.The Prince of Wales's birthday.  How I
grieve at whatever may be the cause which absents him from his
family!--a family of so much love, harmony, and excellence, that
to mix with them, even rarely, must have been the first of
lessons to his heart; and here, I am assured, his heart is good,
though, elsewhere, his conduct renders it so suspicious.

I come now to the Oxford expedition.

The plan was to spend one day at Lord Harcourt's, at Nuneham, one
at Oxford, and one at Blenheim; dining and sleeping always at
Nuneham.

I now a little regretted that I had declined meeting Lady
Harcourt, when invited to see her at Mrs. Vesey's about three
years ago.  I was not, just then, very happy--and I was surfeited
of new acquaintances; when the invitation, therefore, came, I
sent an excuse.  But now when I was going to her house, I wished
I had had any previous knowledge of her, to lessen the
difficulties of my first appearance in my new character, upon
attending the queen on a visit.  I said something of this sort to
Mrs. Schwellenberg, in our conversation the day before the
journey ; and she answered that it did not signify for, as I went
with the queen, I might be sure I should be civilly treated.
374

Yes, I said, I generally had been; and congratulated myself that
at least I knew a little of Lord Harcourt, to whom I had been
introduced, some years ago, at Sir Joshua Reynolds', and whom I
had since met two or three times.  "O," she said, "it is the
same,--that is nothing,--when you go With the queen, it is
enough; they might be civil to you for that sake.  You might go
quite without no, what you call, fuss; you might take no gown but
what you go in:--that is enough,--you might have no servant,--for
what?--You might keep on your riding-dress.  There is no need you
might be seen.  I shall do everything that I can to assist you to
appear for nobody."

I leave you to imagine my thanks.  But the news about the servant
was not very pleasant, as I thought it most likely I could never
more want one than in a strange house added to a strange
situation.  However, I determined upon assuming no competition in
command, and therefore I left the matter to her own direction.


              THE JOURNEY To NUNEHAM: UNGRACious RECEPTION.

Their majesties went to Nuneham to breakfast.  Miss Planta and
myself were not to follow till after an early dinner.  Princess
Elizabeth, in a whisper, after the rest left the room,- advised
me to go and lie down again as soon as they were gone.  And,
indeed, I was sufficiently fatigued to be glad to follow the
advice.

My dear Mrs. Delany came to sit with me while I packed up.  What
a pleasure to rne is her constant society, and the reciprocal
confidence of all our conversations ! She intrusts me with every
thing in the world-I intrust her with every thing that now
happens to me.

Our early dinner was with Mrs. Schwellenberg and Miss Mawer.  We
set out at three o'clock, and took with us Mrs. Thielky, the
queen's wardrobe woman, and the comfort of my life in the absence
of Mrs. Schwellenberg, for she is the real acting person, though
I am the apparent one : and she is also a very good sort of
woman,-plain, sensible, clear-headed, mild-mannered, sedate, and
steady.  I found her in this journey of infinite service, for she
not only did almost every thing for the queen, but made it her
business to supply also the place of maid to me, as much as ever
I would suffer her.  How fortunate for me that the person so
immediately under me should be so good a creature ! The other
person we took was a Miss
375

Mhaughendorf, a dresser to the Princesses Royal and Augusta, a
very pleasing young woman, gentle and in teresting, who is just
come from the king ,s German dominions to this place, to which
she has been recommended by her father, who is clerk of the
kitchen to the Duke of York.  The princesses have a German in
this office, to assist their study of that language, which, in
their future destinations, may prove essential to them.

Miss Planta's post in the Court-calendar is that of English
teacher, but it seems to me, that of personal attendant upon the
two eldest princesses.  She is with them always when they sup,
work, take their lessons, or walk.

We arrived at Nunebam at about six o'clock.  The house is one of
those straggling, half new, half old, half comfortable, and half
forlorn mansions, that are begun in one generation and finished
in another.  It is very pleasantly situated, and commands, from
some points of view, all the towers of Oxford.

In going across the park to the entrance, we saw not a creature.
All were busy, either in attendance upon the royal guests, or in
finding hiding-places from whence to peep at them.  We stopped at
the portico,-but not even a porter was there : we were obliged to
get out of the carriage by the help of one of the postilions, and
to enter the house by the help of wet grass, which would not
suffer me to stay out of it, otherwise, I felt so strange in
going in uninvited and unconducted, that I should have begged
leave to stroll about till somebody appeared.

Miss Planta, more used to these expeditions, though with quite as
little taste for them, led the way, and said we had best go and
seek for our rooms.  I was quite of the same opinion, but much at
a loss how we might find them.  We went through various passages,
unknowing whither they might lead us, till at length we
encountered a prodigious fine servant.  Miss Planta, asked him
for Lady Harcourt's maid; he bowed slightly, and passed on
without making any answer.

Very pleasant this!--I then begged we might turn back, not caring
for another adventure of the same sort.  Miss Planta complied;
and we met two more of the yellow-laced saunterers, with whom she
had precisely the same success.

I think I never remember to have felt so much shame from my
situation as at that time.  To arrive at a house where no
mistress nor master of it cared about receiving me; to wander
about, a guest uninvited, a visitor unthought of; without even a
room to go to, a person to inquire for, or even a servant to
376

speak to! It was now I felt the real want of either a man or
maid, to send forward, and find out what we were to do with
ourselves ; and indeed I resolved, then, I would not another time
be so passive to unauthorized directions.

The fault of this strange reception was certainly in the lady of
the house, whose affair it was to have given orders, previous to
our arrival, that some of her people should shew us to whatever
apartment she destined for us.  The queen herself had sent word
that we were to attend her; and however impossible it was that
she could receive us herself, which her own attendance upon their
majesties made really impracticable, it was incumbent upon her to
have taken care that we should not have been utterly neglected.

We strayed thus, backwards and forwards, for a full quarter of an
hour, in these nearly deserted straggling passages ; and then, at
length, met a French woman, whom Miss Planta immediately seized
upon : it was Lady Harcourt's woman, and Miss Planta had seen her
at Windsor.

"Pray shew us," cried Miss Planta, "where we are to go."

She was civil, and led us to a parlour looking very pleasantly
upon the park, and asked if we would have some tea.  Miss Planta
assented.  She told us the king and queen were in the park, and
left us.  As there was a garden-door to this room, I thought it
very possible the royal party and their suite might return to the
house that way.  This gave great addition to my discomposure, for
I thought that to see them all in this forlorn plight would be
still the worst part of the business,- I therefore pressed Miss
Planta to let us make another attempt to discover our own rooms.

Miss Planta laughed exceedingly at my disturbance, but complied
very obligingly with my request.  In this our second wandering
forth we had no better success than in the first; we either met
nobody, or only were crossed by such superfine men in laced
liveries, that we attempted not to question them.  My constant
dread was Of meeting any of the royal party, while I knew not
whither to run.  Miss Planta, more inured to such situations, was
not at all surprised by our difficulties and disgraces, and only
diverted by my distress from them.

We met at last with Mhaughendorf, and Miss Planta eagerly desired
to be conducted to the princesses' rooms, that she might see if
every thing was prepared for them.  When they had looked at the
apartments destined for the princesses, Miss Planta proposed our
sitting down to our tea in the Princess Eliza-
377

beth's room.  This was extremely disagreeable to me, as I was
sensible it must seem a great freedom from me, should her royal
highness surprise us there; but it was no freedom for Miss
Planta, as she had belonged to all the princesses these nine
years, and is eternally in their sight.  I could not, therefore,
persuade her of the difference ; and she desired Mhaughendorf to
go and order our tea upstairs.


                  A HASTY INTRODUCTION To LADY HARCOURT.

Miss Planta, followed by poor me, then whisked backwards and
forwards, from one of the apartments to another, superintending
all the preparations; and, as we were crossing a landing-place, a
lady appeared upon the stairs, and Miss Planta called out "It's
Lady Harcourt," and ran down to meet her.

They talked together a few minutes.  "I must get you, Miss
Planta," said she, looking up towards me, "to introduce me to
Miss Burney."

She then came up the stairs, said she was glad to see me, and
desired I would order any thing I wanted, either for the queen or
for myself.  Cold enough was my silent curtsey.

She talked again to Miss Planta, who, already knowing her, from
seeing her frequently when in waiting, as she is one of the
ladies of the bedchamber, was much more sociable than myself.
She afterwards turned to me, and said, "If there is anything you
want, Miss Burney, pray speak for it." And she added, "My sisters
will attend you presently;--you will excuse me,-I have not a
moment from their majesties."  And then she curtseyed, and left
us.

We returned to the Princess Elizabeth's room, and there the tea
followed, but not the promised sisters.  I never saw Miss Planta
laugh so heartily before nor since; but my dismay was possibly
comical to behold.


                       APPARITION OF THE PRINCESSES.

The tea was just poured out, when the door opened, and in entered
all the princesses.  I was very much ashamed, and started up, but
had no asylum whither to run.  They all asked us how we did after
our journey; and I made an apology, as well as I could, to the
Princess Elizabeth, for my intrusion into her apartment -
confessing I did not know where to find my own.
378

The princess royal, eagerly coming up to me, said, "I thought you
would be distressed at first arriving, and I wanted to help you;
and I enquired where your room was, and said I would look at it
myself ; and I went round to it, but I found the king was that
way, and so, you know, I could not go past him; but indeed I
wished to have seen it for you."

There was hardly any thanking her for such infinite sweetness
;-they then desired us to go on with our tea, and went into the
princess royal's room.

I was now a little revived ; and soon after the Princess
Elizabeth came back, and asked if we had done, desiring us at the
same time not to hurry.

Yes, we said; and ashamed of thus keeping possession of her room,
I was gliding out, when she flew to me, and said, " "Don't go!--
pray come and stay with me a little." She then flew to another
end of the room, and getting a chair, brought it herself close up
to me, and seating herself on another, said, "Come, sit down by
me, Miss Burney."

You may suppose how I resisted and apologised,-truly telling her
that I had not opposed her royal highness's design, from being
ashamed of even suspecting it.  She only laughed good-humouredly,
and made me take the chair she had thus condescended to fetch me.
. . . In a very few minutes, the other princesses - came for her.
The princess royal then told me she was quite sorry to hear we
had been so much distressed --and I found Miss Plantabad
recounted our adventures.

I was not glad of this, though greatly gratified by the goodness
of the princess.  But I know how quickly complaints circulate,
and I wish not even for redress by such means, which commonly,
when so obtained, is more humiliating than the offence which
calls for it.



                           FROM PILLAR TO POST.

When the princesses left us, we were again at a loss what to do
with ourselves ; we saw several passing servants, maids as well
as men, and Miss Planta applied to them all to shew me my room,
which I was anxious to inhabit in peace and solitude: however,
they all promised to send, some one else, but no one came.  Miss
Planta, in the midst of the diversion she received from my
unavailing earnestness to get into some retreat, had the
good-nature to say, "I knew how this would turn out, and wished
the visit over before it began ; but it must really be
379

very new to you, unused as you are to it, and accustomed to so
much attention in other places."

At length she seized upon a woman servant, who undertook to
conduct me to this wished-for room.  Miss Planta accompanied me,
and off we set.  In descending the stairs, a door opened which
led to one of the state rooms, in which were the royal family.
We glided softly past ; but the princess royal, attended by the
Duchess of Ancaster, came out to us.  We soon found her royal
highness had told our tale.  "Miss Vernons," said the duchess,
"will come to take care of you; you must both go and take
possession of the eating-parlour, where you will sup; and the
equerries will be of your party."

I said not a word, but of general thanks, still longing only to
go to my own room.  I whispered this to Miss Planta, who
obligingly, though rather reluctantly, consented to pursue our
first scheme.  But when the duchess observed that we were turning
off, she called out, "I see you do not know your way, so I'll
come and show you to the eating-parlour." The princess royal said
she would come with us also; and., according to direction, we
were therefore necessitated to proceed.

When we got to the hall leading to this parlour, we were suddenly
stopped by the appearance of the king, who just then came out of
that very room.  Lord Harcourt attended with a candle in his
hand, and a group of gentlemen followed.  We were advanced too
far to retreat, and therefore only stood still.  The king
stopped, and spoke to the Duchess of Ancaster; and then spoke
very graciously to Miss Planta and me, inquiring when we set out,
and what sort of journey we had had.  He then ascended the
stairs, the princess royal accompanying him, and all the rest
following; the duchess first pointing to the door of the
eating-parlour, and bidding us go there and expect Miss Vernons.

Lord Harcourt, during this meeting, had contrived to slip behind
the king, to make me a very civil bow; and when his majesty moved
on, he slid nearer me, and whispered a welcome to his house in
very civil terms.  This was all he could do, so situated.

We now entered the eating-room.  We sat down,--but no Miss
Vernons!  Presently the door opened,-I hoped they were coming,--
but a clergyman, a stranger to us both, appeared.  This
gentleman, I afterwards found, was Mr.  Hagget, chaplain to Lord
Harcourt, and rector of a living in his lordship's gift and
neighbourhood ; a young man, sensible,
380

easy, and remarkably handsome, in very high favour with all the
family.  With nobody to introduce us to each other, we could but
rise and bow, and curtsey, and sit down again.

In a few minutes,
again the door gave hopes to me of Miss Vernons ;-but there only
appeared a party of gentlemen.  Major Price came foremost, and
immediately introduced me to General Harcourt.  The general is a
very shy man, with an air of much haughtiness ; he bowed and
retreated, and sat down, and was wholly silent.  Colonel Fairly
followed him, and taking a chair next mine, began some of the
civilest speeches imaginable, concerning this opportunity of
making acquaintance with me.

just then came in a housemaid, and said she would show me my
room.  I rose hastily.  Miss Planta, who knew everybody present
except the clergyman, was now willing to have sat still and
chatted ; but nothing short of compulsion Could have kept me in
such a situation, and therefore I instantly accompanied the maid;
and poor Miss Planta could not stay behind.  The truth is the
non-appearance of any of the ladies of the house struck me as
being so extremely uncivil, that I desired nothing but to retire
from all the party.

I felt quite relieved when I once took possession of a room that,
for the time, I might call my own; and I could not possibly
listen to Miss Planta's desire of returning to the company.  I
told her frankly that it was a situation so utterly disagreeable
to me, that I must beg to decline placing myself in it again.
She was afraid, she said, that, as the Duchess of Ancaster had
taken the trouble to show us the room, and to tell us what to do,
in the presence of the princess royal, the queen might hear of
our absconding, and not be pleased with it.

"I must risk that," I answered - "I shall openly tell my reasons,
If questioned, and I firmly believe they will be satisfactory, If
not questioned, I shall say nothing ; and indeed I very much wish
you would do the same."

She agreed,--consented, rather--and I was the more obliged to her
from seeing it was contrary to her inclination.  I was sorry, but
I could not compliment at the expense of putting myself again
into a situation I had been so earnest to change.  Miss Planta
bore it very well, and only wished the maid farther for never
finding us out till we began to be comfortable without her.
381

                     "THE EQUERRIES WANT THE LADIES."

Here we remained about two hours, unsummoned, unnoticed,
unoccupied,-except in forcing open a box which Mrs.  Thielky had
lent me for my wardrobe, and of which I had left the key,
ingeniously, at Windsor.  At ten o'clock a maid caine to the
door, and said supper was ready.

"Who sent you?" I called out.

"Who do you come from?" cried Miss Planta.

She was gone;--we could get no answer.  About a quarter of an
hour after, one of those gentlemen footmen, for whom you must
already have discovered my partiality, called out, from the
stairs, without troubling himself to come to the door, "The
supper waits."

He was already gone; but Miss Planta darted after him, calling
out, "Who sent you?--who did you come to?"

She was not heard by this gentleman, but what she said was echoed
after him by some other, and the answer that reached our ears
was, "The equerries want the ladies."

This was enough; Miss Planta returned quite indignant, after
hastily replying, "We don't choose any supper."

We were now precisely of an opinion.  Miss Planta, indeed, was
much more angry than myself; for I was very sure the equerries
had sent a very different message, and therefore thought nothing
of the words used by the servant, but confined all my
dissatisfaction to its first origin,--the incivility of the
ladies of the house, that they came not themselves, or some one
from them, to invite us in a manner that might be accepted.  From
this time, however, we became more comfortable, as absconding was
our mutual desire; and we were flung, by this means, into a style
of sociability we might else never have arrived at.

We continued together till Miss Planta thought it right to go and
see if Mhaughendorf had prepared every thing for the princesses;
and then I was left to myself-the very companion I just at that
time most wished a t`ete-`a-t`ete with--till I was summoned to
the queen.       In this t`ete-`a-t`ete, I determined very
concisely upon my plan of procedure: which was to quietly keep my
own counsel, unless I found my conduct disapproved - and, in that
case, to run all risks in openly declaring that I must always
prefer solitude to society upon terms to which I was
unaccustomed.
382

                          SUMMONED TO THE QUEEN.

A little after the scenes I have described, I was surprised when,
late at night, my summons was brought me by Lady Harcourt, who
tapped gently at my door, and made me 'a little visit, previously
to telling me her errand.  She informed me, also, that the queen
had given her command, for Miss Planta 'and me to belong to the
suite the next day, in the visit to Oxford; and that a carriage
was accordingly ordered for us.

The queen said not a word to me of the day's adventures and I was
glad to have them passed over, especially as Lady Harcourt's
visit, and the civility which accompanied it, appeared a little
conscious of remissness.  But when, in speaking of Oxford, her
majesty condescended to ask what gown I had brought with me, how
did I rejoice to answer, a new chamberry gauze, instead of only
that which I have on, according to my Cerbera's advice.

My next difficulty was for a hair-dresser.  Nuneham is three or
four miles from Oxford; and I had neither maid to dress nor man
to seek a dresser.  I could only apply to Mrs.  Thielky, and she
made it her business to prevail with one of the royal footmen to
get me a messenger, to order a hair-dresser from Oxford at six
o'clock in the morning.  The queen, with most gracious
consideration, told me, over night, that she should not want me
till eight o'clock.

Thus ended the first night of this excursion.

Aug. 13.-At six o'clock my hair-dresser, to my great
satisfaction, arrived.  Full two hours was he at work, yet was I
not finished, when Swarthy, the queen's hair-dresser, came
rapping at my door to tell me her majesty's hair was done, and
she was waiting for me.  I hurried as fast as I could, and ran
down without any cap.  She smiled at sight of my hasty attire,
and said I should not be distressed about a hair-dresser the next
day, but employ Swarthy's assistant, as soon as he had done with
the princesses: "You should have had him," she added, "to-day, if
I had known you wanted him."

When her majesty was dressed, all but the hat, she sent for the
three princesses - and the king came also.  I felt very foolish
with my uncovered head; but it was somewhat the less awkward from
its being very much a custom, in the royal family, to go without
caps ; though none that appear before them use such a freedom.
As soon as the hat was OD,-
383

"Now, Miss Burney," said the queen, "I won't keep you; you had
better go and dress too."

While I was dressing, a footman came to my door, with a formal
message that Miss Vernons begged I would come to breakfast.  I
immediately promised to make haste, glad to find something more
resembling civility at length coming round to me.  Presently
after entered Miss Planta, in high spirits and great enjoyment.
She told me she had been acquainting the queen with the whole
affair, and that the queen quite approved of our staying
upstairs.  She had been also with the equerries, and had a fine
laugh with them about their " wanting the ladies they declared
they had sent no message at all, and that the servant had simply
received orders to tell us that Miss Vernons desired our company
to supper.

I thought it mighty unnecessary to have acquainted the equerries
with what could only furnish a laugh against ourselves : however,
the thing was done, and down we went together.


                         A CHECK FOR THE COLONEL.

The two Miss Vernons, General Harcourt, Colonel Fairly, Major
Price, and -Mr. Hagget were all at breakfast.  The Miss Vernons
immediately began an apology about the supper the preceding
night, declaring themselves exceedingly sorry we should not have
had any, which they found was entirely owing to a blunder in the
message given by the servants.

The gentlemen were all dying to make a laugh about the equerries
" wanting the ladies ; " and Colonel Fairly began ; but the
gravity of my behaviour soon quieted him.  Mr. Hagget was content
to be observant of a new person ; General Harcourt scarce ever
speaks but from necessity; and Major Price was as grave as
myself.

The eldest Miss Vernon is plain, and a little old-maidish but I
found her afterwards sensible, well read, and well bred but not
quite immediately did she appear so, as you will soon see.  The
youngest is many years her junior, and fat and handsome,
good-humoured, and pleasing in her smiles, though high and
distant till they are called forth.

After breakfast, when we were all breaking up, to prepare for
church, I had a short explanatory conversation with Major Price,
who came to speak to me concerning the preceding evening, and to
confess his extreme surprise at our shutting
384

ourselves up from their society.  He had had a great mind, he
said, to have come himself to see for us, but did not know
whether it would be right.  They waited, he added--Miss Vernons
and all of them -a quarter of an hour after the supper was upon
the table, and then a servant came in from us, to tell the
equerries that we would not have any supper;--"And, indeed,"
continued he, a little forcibly, "I must own I was rather hurt by
the message."

"Hurt?" cried I,--"what a gentle word!--I am sure I think you
might rather have been angry."

"Why-to own the truth--I believe I was."

I was interrupted before I could explain more fully how the
matter stood ; nor have I ever found opportunity since.  However,
I think it very likely he suggested the truth himself. Be that as
it may, Miss Vernons went for their cloaks, and Miss Planta ran
to the princesses, and therefore I was obliged to be a little
abrupt, and retreat also.

When Miss Planta was ready, she came to fetch me.  We went
downstairs, but knew not whither to proceed.  In the
eating-parlour we had left only the gentlemen, and they were
waiting to attend the king.  There was no other place to which we
could turn, and we had another of those wandering distresses that
had made me so comfortless the night before.  My wish was to find
Miss Vernons:-niy expectation was to be found by them.  Neither,
however, happened; and the first time we met anybody that could
give us any information, we were told they had been gone some
time.

Very agreeable news!



THANKSGIVING SERVICE; AT NUNEHAM.

I could not, however, bear to give Up going to church, for I knew
that the thanksgiving was to be that morning for the preservation
of the king from assassination : and to let pique at this
unaccountable behaviour, after all the apologies just passed,
prevent my hearing and joining in a prayer of such a nature, in
which now I am peculiarly interested, would have been ill worth
the while.  I therefore - proposed to Miss Planta that we should
go by ourselves, and desire one of the servants to show us at
once into Mr.  Hagget's pew: for that we had already heard
offered to the use of Miss Vernons, as Lord Harcourt's was
reserved for their majesties. She agreed; and we proceeded,
following such stragglers as
385

shewed us our way : the servant to whom we applied having soon
deserted us.

The church is in a very beautiful situation in the park, and
built in the form of a Grecian temple.  I admired it very much
for its plainness and elegance.  When we got to it, the very
first step we took in it shewed us the Miss Vernons, very
composedly seated in a large pew at the entrance.  I now led the
way, and took a place next to Miss Vernons, as much without
apology as without invitation.

Mr. Hagget both read and preached.  I was a good deal touched by
the occasional thanksgiving, chiefly from knowing how much it
must affect the queen and the princesses.  Cause enough, indeed,
is there for thanksgiving and rejoicing the safety of so mild and
exemplary a sovereign.

When the service was over, and the royal family were gone, I
thought it but right, in such a place, to subdue my proud
feelings so far as to say to the Miss Vernons, I hoped we had not
disturbed them.

I was very glad I took this little step down, for Miss Vernon,
colouring, apologised for not waiting for us, which she said was
owing to the fear of not getting into the chapel before the royal
family.  And then she asked if we should like to look at the
altar-piece, which was the work of Mr.  Mason.


           ROYAL VISIT TO OXFORD: RECEPTION BY THE UNIVERSITY.

And now for the Oxford expedition.

How many carriages there were, and how they were arranged, I
observed not sufficiently to recollect; but the party consisted
of their majesties, the Princesses Royal, Augusta, and Elizabeth,
the Duchess of Ancaster, Lord and Lady Harcourt, Lady Charlotte
Bertie, and the two Miss Vernons.  These last ladies are
daughters of the late Lord Vernon, and sisters of Lady Harcourt.

General Harcourt, Colonel Fairly, and Major Price and Mr. Hagget,
with Miss Planta and myself, completed the group.  Miss Planta
and I, of course, as the only undignified persons, brought up the
rear.  We were in a chaise of Lord Harcourt.

The city of Oxford afforded us a very noble view on the road, and
its spires, towers, and domes soon made me forget all the little
objects of minor spleen that had been crossing me

 386


as I journeyed towards them ; and indeed, by the time I arrived
in the midst of them, their grandeur, nobility, antiquity, and
elevation impressed my mind so forcibly, that I felt for the
first time since my new situation had taken place a rushing in of
ideas that had no connection with it whatever.

The roads were lined with decently dressed people, and the high
street was so crowded we were obliged to drive gently and
carefully, to avoid trampling the people to death.  Yet their
behaviour was perfectly respectful and proper.  Nothing could
possibly be better conducted than the whole of this expedition.

We all drove straight to the theatre(211) in procession.  Here,
in alightingfrom the carriages, there was some difficulty, on
account of the pressure of the people to see the king and queen,
and princesses : however, even then, it was still the genteelest
and most decent crowd I ever saw.

Here it was that Major Price signalised that part of his
character I have so strongly marked, of his being truly a
gentleman.  It was his business to attend and guard the king.
but he was determined to take almost equal care of some of his
majesty's subjects: he was everybody's equerry during the whole
expedition, assisting and looking after every creature, seeing us
all out of our carriages and into them, and addressing the
people, when they pressed too forward, with a steadiness and
authority that made them quicker in retreat than all the staves
of all the constables, who were attending by dozens at the
entrance of every college.

At the outward gate of the theatre, the vice-chancellor, Dr.
Chapman, received their majesties.  All the professors, doctors,
etc., then in Oxford, arrayed in their professional robes,
attended him.--How I wished my dear father amongst them

The vice-chancellor then conducted their majesties along the
inner court, to the door of the theatre, all the rest following ;
and there, waiting their arrival, stood the Duke and Duchess of
Marlborough, the Marquis of Blandford, in a nobleman's Oxford
robe, and Lady Caroline and Lady Elizabeth Spencer.

After they had all paid their duties, a regular procession
followed, which I should have thought very pretty, and much have
liked to have seen, had I been a mere looker on; but was
frequently at a loss, what to do with myself, and uncertain

387

whether I ought to proceed in the suite, or stand by as a
spectator ; and Miss Planta was still, if possible, more fearful.

The theatre was filled with company, all well dressed, and
arranged in rows around it.  The area below them was entirely
empty, so that there was not the least confusion.  The
chancellor's chair, at the head of about a dozen steps, was
prepared for the king ; and just below him, to his left, a form
for the queen and the princesses.

The king walked foremost from the area, conducted by the
University's vice-chancellor.  The queen followed, handed by her
own vice-chamberlain.  The Princess royal followed, led by the
king's aide-de-camp, General Harcourt; and Princess Augusta,
leaning on Major Price.  Princess Elizabeth walked alone, no
other servant of the king being present, and no rank authorising
such a conduct, without office.

Next followed the Duke and Duchess of Marlborough ; then the
Duchess of Ancaster, and Marquis of Blandford - next, Lord and
Lady Harcourt, then the two Lady Spencers and Lady Charlotte
Bertie, then the Miss Vernons, and then Miss Planta and a certain
F.  B.                                                    .

We were no sooner arranged, and the door of the theatre shut,
than the king, his head covered, sat down ; the queen did the
same, and then the three princesses.  All the rest, throughout
the theatre, stood.


THE ROYAL FAMILY ARE MUCH AFFECTED.

      The vice-chancellor then made a low obeisance to the king, and
producing a written paper, began the address of the University,
to thank his majesty for this second visit, and to congratulate
him and the nation on his late escape from assassination.  He
read it in an audible and distinct voice; and in its CODclusion,
an address was suddenly made to the queen, expressive of much
concern for her late distress, and the highest and most profound
veneration for her amiable and exalted character.

An address, to me so unexpected, and on a subject so recent and
of so near concern, in presence of the person preserved, his
wife, and his children, was infinitely touching.

The queen could scarcely bear it, though she had already, I doubt
not, heard it at Nuneham, as these addresses niust be first read
in private, to have the answers prepared.  Nevertheless, this
public tribute of loyalty to the king, and of respect to
388

herself, went gratefully to her heart, and filled her eyes with
tears-which she would not, however, encourage, but smiling
through them, dispersed them with her fan, with which she was
repeatedly obliged to stop their Course down her cheeks.

The princesses, less guarded, the moment their father's danger
was mentioned, wept with but little control; and no wonder, for I
question if there was one dry eye in the theatre.  The tribute,
so just, so honourable, so elegant, paid to the exalted character
of the queen, affected everybody, with joy for her escape from
affliction, and with delight at the reward and the avowal of her
virtues.

When the address was ended, the king took a paper from Lord
Harcourt, and read his answer.  The king reads admirably; with
ease, feeling, and force, and without any hesitation.  His voice
is particularly full and fine.  I was very much surprised by its
effect.  When he had done, he took off his hat, and bowed to the
chancellor and professors, and delivered the answer to Lord
Harcourt, who, walking backwards, descended the stairs, and
presented it to the vice chancellor.

All this ceremony was so perfectly new to me, that I rejoiced
extremely in not missing it.  Indeed I would not have given up
the pleasure of seeing the queen on this occasion for any sort of
sight that could have been exhibited to me.

Next followed music: a good organ, very well played, anthem-ed
and voluntary-ed us for some time.


                  THE PRESENTATIONS : RETIRING BACKWARDS.

After this, the vice-chancellor and professors begged for the
honour of kissing the king's hand.  Lord Harcourt was again the
backward messenger ; and here followed a great mark of goodness
in the king: he saw that nothing less than a thoroughbred old
courtier, such as Lord Harcourt, could walk backwards down these
steps, before himself, and in sight of so full a hall of
spectators - and he therefore dispensed with being approached to
his seat, and walked down himself into the area, where the
vice-chancellor kissed his hand, and was imitated by every
professor and doctor in the room.

Notwithstanding this considerate good-nature in his majesty, the
sight, at times, was very ridiculous.  Some of the worthy
collegiates, unused to such ceremonies, and unaccustomed to
389

such a presence, the moment they had kissed the king,'s hand,
turned their backs to him, and walked away as in any common room
; others, attempting to do better, did still worse, by tottering
and stumbling, and falling foul of those behind them some,
ashamed to kneel, took the king's hand straight up to their
mouths; others, equally off their guard, plumped down on both
knees, and could hardly get up again; and many, in their
confusion, fairly arose by pulling his majesty's hand to raise
them.

As the king spoke to every one, upon Lord Harcourt's presenting
them, this ceremonial took up a good deal of time but it was too
new and diverting to appear long.

It was vacation time; there were therefore none of the students
present.

When the whole was over, we left the theatre in the same form we
had entered it.  The Duke and Duchess of Marlborough, the Marquis
and the Ladies Spencer, attended the king and queen to their
carriages, and then went back to the theatre, to wait for their
own.

I cannot now go on with our progress regularly, for I do not
remember it.  I will only, therefore, in general, say, that I was
quite delighted with the city, and so entertained and so pleased
with such noble buildings as it presented to me, that I felt, as
I have told you, a consciousness to pleasure revived in me, which
had long lain nearly dormant.


                THE COLLEGES VISITED: A STEALTHY COLLATION.

We went to all the colleges in the same order that we came to the
theatre.  I shall attempt no descriptions ; I shall only mention
a few little personal circumstances, and some of those court
etiquettes which, from their novelty to me, will, I judge, be new
also to my Susan ; and what is new in customs or manners is
always worth knowing.

At Christ-church college, when we arrived at about three o'clock,
in a large hall there was a cold collation prepared for their
majesties and the princesses.  It was at the upper end of the
hall.  I could not see of what it consisted, though it would have
been very agreeable, after so much standing and sauntering, to
have given my opinion of it in an experimental way.

Their majesties and the princesses sat down to this table - as
well satisfied, I believe, as any of their subjects so to do.

390


Duchess of Ancaster and Lady Harcourt stood behind the chairs of
the queen and the princess royal.  There were 11, other ladies of
sufficient rank to officiate for Princesses Augusta and
Elizabeth.  Lord Harcourt stood behind the king's chair and the
vice-chancellor, and the head master of Christ-church' with
salvers in their hands, stood near the table, and ready to hand,
to the three noble waiters, whatever was wanted : while the other
reverend doctors and learned professors stood aloof, equally
ready to present to the chancellor and the master whatever they
were to forward.

We, meanwhile, untitled attendants, stood at the other end of the
room, forming a semi-circle, and all strictly facing the royal
collationers.  We consisted of the Miss Vernons, thrown out here
as much as their humble guests-Colonel Fairly, Major Price,
General Harcourt, and,-though I know not why,--Lady Charlotte
Bertie;--with all the inferior professors, in their gowns, and
some, too much frightened to advance, of the upper degrees.
These, with Miss Planta, Mr.  Hagget, and myself, formed this
attendant semi-circle.

The time of this collation was spent very pleasantly-to me, at
least, to whom the novelty of the scene rendered it entertaining.
It was agreed that we must all be absolutely famished unless we
could partake of some refreshment, as we had breakfasted early,
and had no chance of dining before six or seven o'clock.  A
whisper was soon buzzed through the semi-circle, of the
deplorable state of our appetite apprehensions ; and presently it
reached the ears of some of the worthy doctors.  Immediately a
new whisper was circulated, which made its progress with great
vivacity, to offer us whatever we would wish, and to beg us to
name what we chose.

Tea, coffee, and chocolate, were whispered back.

The method of producing, and the means of swallowing them, were
much more difficult to settle than the choice of what was
acceptable.  Major Price and Colonel Fairly, however, seeing a
very large table close to the wainscot behind us, desired our
refreshments might be privately conveyed there, behind the
semi-circle, and that, while all the group backed very near it,
one at a time might feed, screened by all the rest from
observation.

I suppose I need not inform you, my dear Susan, that to eat in
presence of any of the royal family is as much hors d'usage as to
be seated.  This plan had speedy success, and the very good
doctors soon, by sly degrees and with watchful

391

caution, covered the whole table with tea, coffee, chocolate,
cakes, and bread and butter.

The further plan, however, of one at a time feasting and the rest
fasting and standing sentinels, was not equally approved; there
was too much eagerness to seize the present moment, and too much
fear of a sudden retreat, to give patience for so slow
proceeding.  We could do no more, therefore, than stand in double
row, with one to screen one throughout the troop ; and, in this
manner, we were all very plentifully and very pleasantly served.

The Duchess of Ancaster and Lady Harcourt, as soon as the first
serving attendance was over, were dismissed from the royal
chairs, and most happy to join our group, and partake of our
repast.  The duchess, extremely fatigued with standing, drew a
small body of troops before her, that she might take a few
minutes' rest on a form by one of the doors ; and Lady Charlotte
Bertie did the same, to relieve an ankle which she had
unfortunately sprained.

"Poor Miss Burney," cried the good-natured duchess, "I wish she
could sit down, for she is unused to this work.  She does not
know yet what it is to stand for five hours following, as we do."

The beautiful window of Sir Joshua Reynolds and Mr.  Jervis, in
New college, would alone have recovered me, had my fatigue been
infinitely more serious.

In one of the colleges I stayed so long in an old chapel,
lingering over antique monuments, that all the party were
vanished before I missed them, except doctors and professors ;
for we had a train of those everywhere ; and I was then a little
surprised by the approach of one of them, saying, "You seem
inclined to abide with us, Miss Burney?"--and then another, in an
accent of facetious gallantry, cried, "No, no, don't let us shut
up Miss Burney among old tombs!--No, no!"

After this, many of the good doctors occasionally spoke to me,
when there happened to be opportunity.  How often did I wish my
dear father amongst them!  They considered me as a doctor's
daughter, and were all most excessively courteous, handing, and
pointing, and showing me about as much as possible.

In another college, while Miss Planta and myself were hanging a
little back, at the entrance into a small cedar chapel, that
would not much more than hold the royal family and their
immediate suite, the Duchess of Ancaster,
392

who took every opportunity to show me civilities, and distinguish
me, came down the steps, and made me ascend them, to turn with
her, when she called to her daughter, and in the most obliging
terms introduced me to her, with many kind speeches of her wish
that we should cultivate much acquaintance.  Lady Charlotte is
very handsome, and has a very good figure: she unfortunately
lisps very much, which, at first, never prejudices in favour of
the understanding; but I have conversed with her too little to
know anything more of her than that she is well bred, and seems
to have a large portion internally, of the good-natured and
obliging disposition of her mother.

At the Town-hall, an address was presented by the mayor and
corporation of the city of Oxford to the king, which the miayor
read, while the same ceremony of the sitting and standing was
practised that I have described at the theatre.  The king took
off his hat, and bowed, and received the address, after hearing
it, but returned no answer.  Nor has his majesty made any except
to the Oxford University, though they have, since, poured in upon
him from every part of the kingdom.  The mayor was then knighted.

I think it was in Trinity college that we saw the noblest library
I have ever happened to enter.  For 'tis but little, my dear
Susan, I have seen of sights.  Here we had new court scenery, in
which I acted but an uncourtier-like part.  The queen and
princess had seats prepared for them, which, after a stroll up
and down the library, they were glad, I believe, to occupy.  The
ladies of their suite were then graciously ordered by her majesty
to be seated, as there was not here the state or public
appearance that was observed at the theatre, and in the college
where the refreshments were given.  As to the poor men, they
never must sit in the presence of the queen, be they whom they
will, or what they will: so they were fain to stand it out.

Miss Planta glided away, behind a pillar, and, being there
unseen, was able to lounge a little.  She was dreadfully tired.
So was everybody but myself.  For me, my curiosity was so awake
to every thing, that I seemed insensible to all inconvenience.  I
could not, in such a library, prevail with myself to so nodest a
retirement as Miss Planta's: I considered that the queen had
herself ordered my attendance in this expedition, and I thought
myself very well privileged to make it as pleasant as I could.  I
therefore stole softly down the room, to the further end, and
there amused myself with examining what
393

books were within reach of my eyes, and with taking down and
looking into all such as were also within reach of my
understanding.  This was very pleasant sport to me, and had we
stayed there till midnight would have kept me from weariness.


                    RETREATING FROM THE ROYAL PRESENCE.

In another college (we saw so many, and in such quick succession,
that I recollect not any by name, though all by situation) I saw
a performance of courtly etiquette, by Lady Charlotte Bertie,
that seemed to me as difficult as any feat I ever beheld, even at
Astley's or Hughes's.  It was in an extremely large, long,
spacious apartment.  The king always led the way out, as well as
in, upon all entrances and exits : but here, for some reason that
I know not, the queen was handed out first ; and the princesses,
and the aide-de-camp, and equerry followed.  The king was very
earnest in conversation with some professor ; the attendants
hesitated whether to wait or follow the queen ; but presently the
Duchess of Ancaster, being near the door, slipped out, and Lady
Harcourt after her.  The Miss Vernons, who were but a few steps
from them, went next.  But Lady Charlotte, by chance, happened to
be very high up the room, and near to the king.  Had I been in
her situation, I had surely waited till his majesty went first -
but that would not, I saw, upon this occasion, have been
etiquette she therefore faced the king, and began a march
backwards, -her ankle already sprained, and to walk forward, and
even leaning upon an arm, was painful to her: nevertheless, back
she went, perfectly upright, without one stumble, without ever
looking once behind to see what she might encounter ; and with as
graceful a motion, and as easy an air, as I ever saw anybody
enter a long room, she retreated, I am sure, full twenty yards
backwards out of one.

For me, I was also, unluckily, at the upper end of the room,
looking at some portraits of founders, and one of Henry VIII.  in
particular, from Holbein.  However, as soon as I perceived what
was going forward,-backward, rather,-I glided near the wainscot,
(Lady Charlotte, I should mention, made her retreat along the
very middle of the room,) and having paced a few steps backwards,
stopped short to recover, and, while I seemed examining some
other portrait, disentangled my train from the heels of my shoes,
and then proceeded a few steps only more .- and then, observing
the king turn another way, I slipped a yard or two at a time
forwards - and hastily looked back, and
394

then was able to go again according to rule, and in this manner,
by slowand varying means, I at length made my escape.  Miss
Planta stood upon less ceremony, and fairly ran off.

Since that time, however, I have come on prodigiously, by
constant practice, in the power and skill of walking backwards,
without tripping up my own heels, feeling my head giddy, or
treading my train out of the plaits--accidents very frequent
among novices in that business; and I have no doubt but that, in
the course of a few months, I shall arrive at all possible
perfection in the true Court retrograde motion.

In another college, in an old chapter house, I had the
opportunity to see another Court-scene.  It was nearly round in
shape, and had various old images and ornaments. We were all
taken in by the doctors attendant, and the party, with doctors
and all, nearly filled it ; but, finding it crowded, everybody
stood upon the less ceremony, and we all made our examinations of
the various contents of the room quite at our ease: till suddenly
the king and queen, perceiving two very heavy old-fashioned
chairs were placed at the head of the room for their reception,
graciously accepted them, and sat down. Nothing could exceed the
celerity with which all confusion instantly was over, and the
most solemn order succeeded to it.  Chairs were presented to the
three princesses by the side of the queen, and the Duchess of
Ancaster anc Lady Harcourt planted themselves at their backs ;
while Lady Charlotte instantly retreated close to the wall, and
so did every creature else in the room, all according to their
rank or station, and the royal family remained conspicuous and
alone, all crowd dispersed, and the space of almost the whole
room unoccupied before them, so close to the walls did every body
respectfully stand.


                          SURPRISED BY THE QUEEN.

The last college we visited was Cardinal Wolsey's--an immense
fabric. While roving about a very spacious apartment, Mr.
Fairly(212) came behind me, and whispered that I might easily
slip out into a small parlour, to rest a little while ; almost
everybody having taken some opportunity to contrive

395

themselves a little sitting but myself.  I assured him, very
truly, I was too little tired to make it worth while ; but poor
Miss Planta was so woefully fatigued that I could not, upon her
account, refuse to be of the party.  He conducted us into a very
neat little parlour, belonging to the master of the college, and
Miss Planta flung herself on a chair, half dead with weariness.

Mr. Fairly was glad of the opportunity to sit for a moment also;
for 'my part, I was quite alert.  Alas! my dear Susan, 'tis my
mind that is so weak, and so open to disorder;- my body, I really
find, when it is an independent person, very strong, and capable
of much exertion without suffering from it.

Mr. Fairly now produced, from a paper repository concealed in his
coat pocket, some apricots and bread, and insisted upon my eating
;-but I was not inclined to the repast, and saw he was half
famished himself;-so was poor Miss Planta : however, he was so
persuaded I must both be as hungry and as tired as himself, that
I was forced to eat an apricot to appease him.

Presently, while we were in the midst of this regale, the door
suddenly opened, and the queen came in!--followed by as many
attendants as the room would contain.  Up we all started, myself
alone not discountenanced ; for I really think it quite respect
sufficient never to sit down in the royal presence, without
aiming at having it supposed I have stood bolt upright ever since
I have been admitted to it.  Quick into our pockets was crammed
our bread, and close into our hands was squeezed our fruit; by
which I discovered that our appetites were to be supposed
annihilated, at the same time that our strength was to be
invincible.

Very soon after this we were joined by the king, and in a few
minutes we all paraded forth to the carriages, and drove back to
Nuneham.

I have been very minute in this Oxford account, because it
presented scenes so new to me, and because I concluded that,
after you have had a month or two of general journal, you will
have nothing more to be new to either of us.

This Oxford expedition was, altogether, highly entertaining to
me; but I ought not to close it without telling you the sweetness
of all the princesses, who each made a point of speaking to, Miss
Planta and to me upon entering or quitting every college, as we
stood in the ranks, while they passed.
396

                             AT NUNEHAM AGAIN.

I stayed in my own room till a message from the miss Vernons
brought me down to dinner; and from this time forward those
ladies exerted themselves to the utmost in being attentive,
sociable, and civil.  I found the major, Mr. Fairly Mr. Hagget,
Miss Planta, and themselves ; and we had a very pleasant dinner,
talking over the sights just seen.  All the afternoon was spent
in the same party.  We went into Lord Harcourt's library to tea
and coffee, and there we had short visits from his lordship and
the Duchess of Ancaster.

In the evening Lady Harcourt came also, and was amazingly
courteous.  The queen then sent for the Miss Vernons into the
drawing-room, and Miss Planta and myself left the gentlemen to
take care of themselves, and retired for the evening to our own
rooms.

You must know, wherever the king and queen are, nobody comes into
their sight unsent for, not even the master and mistress of the
house, unless they are publicly acquainted that their majesties
are coming, and mean to see them.


                       A LIVELY BREAKFAST INCIDENT.

Monday, Aug. 14.-I come now to introduce to you a new
acquaintance.

I did not get down to breakfast till it was almost over, as I was
detained with the queen, and as everybody was obliged to make
what haste they could, in order to insure a meal before a
summons.  I found Miss Planta, and the aide-de-camp, vice
chamberlain, and equerry; Lady Harcourt had already breakfasted
with them, but made off as soon as the queen was visible, to wait
upon her majesty.  Miss Vernons lay in bed from yesterday's
fatigues.

The extreme silence and gravity of the aide-de-camp threw a
reserve and constraint on all the party, and we were all nearly
dumb, when a new lady suddenly rushed into the room.  This was
Mrs. Harcourt, the aide-de-camp's wife, who had been ill the
preceding day, and therefore had not ventured to Oxford.  She is
a showy, handsome woman, extremely talkative, with quick parts,
high spirits, and a rattling vein of humour.

Miss Planta, who had taken Lady Harcourt's place, in
397

order to pour out the tea, instantly moved to another.  Mrs.
Harcourt hurried into that just vacated, without ceremony,
calling out, "How monstrous late you all are!--though I need not
talk, for I hate getting up early.  I was so vastly ill yesterday
I could not stir, but I am vastly well to-day, so I am going to
Blenheim."

This day had been previously dedicated to seeing Blenheim.

"To Blenheim?" repeated General Harcourt, in a low voice.

"Yes, sir, to Blenheim! So no grave faces, for my plan is fixed."

He half articulated a fear of her being ill again, but she
stopped him with "O, no matter, leave that to the Fates;--the
queen has been so gracious as to say I may go, and therefore go I
shall : so say nothing about it, for that's settled and
unalterable."

"After being so ill yesterday," said Mr. Fairly, "I think it will
be rather too much for you."

"Not at all !-and what's more, you must carry me."

"I am very glad to hear it," cried he, " if go you will."

"Yes, that I will, certainly; and some of you must take me.  I
have no coach ordered,-and there is not one to spare : so,
amongst you, you equerries, You must carry me.  I have never been
to Blenheim since I married."

"Were you before ? " said the general.

"Yes, sir, and you took me."

"Did I?)"

" Yes, sir, you had that honour ; and I think you have never
taken that trouble since."

All this, though uttered in a voice as peremptory as the
language, was spoken with very becoming smiles, and an air of
saucy good humour.

The breakfast all this while had stood quite still: indeed there
was nobody but myself that had not nearly done.  Major Price
handed me roll and butter and bread across the table, by way of
hint, I believe ; all which I declined: at last Mr. Fairly said,
"Miss Burney, which is your cup?"

Upon this, Mrs. Harcourt, abruptly turning to me, exclaimed "O
dear, you've got no tea!" Then pouring out a dish of slop, added,
"Can you drink it?  It looks very melancholy."

"No," I said, "I have had enough."

Have not you also, my Susan, had enough of this scene ?

The Blenheim visit being considered as a private one,
398

nobody went but of the Marlborough acquaintance: though in all
royal parties, the whole company is always named by the royals,
and the lords and ladies of the mansions have no more right to
invite a guest than a guest has to come uninvited.

I spent this day very pleasantly, in walking over the grounds
which are extremely pretty, seeing a flower-garden planned by Mr.
Mason, and the pictures in the house.  The two MISS Vernons, Miss
Planta, and Mr. Hagget, were all that remained at Nuneham.  And
it was now I wholly made peace with those two ladies; especially
the eldest, as I found her, the moment she was removed from rays
so bright that they had dazzled her, a rational, composed,
obliging woman.  She took infinite and unwearied pains to make
amends for the cold and strange opening of our acquaintance, by
the most assiduous endeavours to give me pleasure and amusement.
And she succeeded very well.  I could blame nobody but the
countess' sister for our reception ; I plainly saw these ladies
had been unprepared to look upon us as any charge to themselves.

The royal excursioners did not return till between six and seven
o'clock, when we dined with the same party as the preceding day.
The evening, too, had just the same visitors, and passed in just
the same manner.

(211) i.e. the University theatre.-ED.

(212) Colonel Digby, who from this time is always called Mr.
Fairly instead of Colonel Fairly, in the "Diary,"-ED,




399

                                 SECTION 9
                                 (1786-7-)

                     COURT DUTIES AT WINDSOR AND KEW.

[The following section and the two sections which succeed it,
relate, almost exclusively, to Fanny's dreary prison-life in the
royal household.  Of the world without the palace, of the friends
whom she had left, we hear next to nothing.  The change for her
was complete ; the rare visits of her father, her sister, and the
Lockes, one hasty excursion to Chesington, and one delightful
evening at Mrs. Ord's, form nearly the sum total of her personal
intercourse, during these eighteen months, with those whose
kindness and sympathy had brightened her past years.  She
complained seldom, and only to her best-beloved Susan, but there
is something truly pathetic in these occasional evidences of the
struggle which she was making to conquer her repugnance, and to
be happy, if that were possible, in her new situation.  Dazzled
by the royal condescension Fanny may have been ; blinded she was
not.  It was her father who, possessed by a strange infatuation,
remained blind to the incongruity, charmed by the fancied honour,
of his daughter's position; and she, tender-hearted as she was,
could not bear to inflict upon one so dear the pain which she
knew must be the consequence of his enlightenment.  Meanwhile,
her best comfort was still in the friendship of Mrs. Delany, and
this, in the course of nature, could not be of long duration.

But dreary as this life of routine was to the unfortunate victim,
we venture to assure the reader that he will find the victim's
account of it very far from dreary.  Indeed, these pages might
almost be instanced to show from what unpromising materials a
person endowed with humour and observation can construct a
singularly entertaining narrative.  Our wonder is that neither
the monotony of her official duties, nor the insipidity of her
associates, nor even *the odious tyranny of her colleague, could
wholly subdue in the author of "Evelina" and "Cecilia" that
bright and humorous disposition to which the following pages bear
frequent testimony.-ED.]
400

                 THE MISCHIFF-MAKING KEEPER OF THE ROBES.

Tuesday, Aug. 15.-This morning we all breakfasted together, and
at about twelve o'clock we set off again for Windsor.

Lord Harcourt came into the breakfast room with abundance of
civil speeches upon his pleasure in renewing our acquaintance,
and the Miss Vernons parted with me like wholly different people
from those I met.

As soon as I returned to the queen's Lodge at Windsor, I called
upon Mrs. Schwellenberg.  I found her still occupied concerning
the newspaper business about Mrs. Hastings.  She was more than
ever irritated against Mr. Fairly for his information, and told
me she was sure he must have said it to her on purpose, and that
she wished people might hold their tongue: but that she was bent
upon having satisfaction, and therefore she had sent for Mrs.
Hastings, and informed her of the whole business.

I was not only sorry, but frightened, lest any mischief should
arise through misrepresentations and blunders, between Mr. Fairly
and Mr. Hastings: however, this imprudent step was taken already,
and not to be called back.

She protested she was determined to insist that Mr. Fairly should
produce the very paper that had mentioned the queen, which she
should show, and have properly noticed.

I, on the other side, instantly resolved to speak myself to Mr.
Fairly, to caution him by no means to be led into seeking any
such paper, or into keeping such a search awake; for, with the
best intentions in the world, I saw him on the point of being
made the object of vindictive resentment to Mr. Hastings, or of
indignant displeasure to the queen herself,-so wide-spreading is
the power of misapprehension over the most innocent conversation.

I saw, however, nothing of Mr. Fairly till tea-time; indeed,
except by very rare chance, I never see any of the king's people
but at that meeting.  Mrs. Schwellenberg was then present, and
nothing could I do.  Major Price and Mr. Fisher were of the
party.  Mr. Fairly fortunately had letters to write, and hastily
left us, after taking one dish of tea.  The moment he was gone
Mrs. Schwellenberg said she had forgot to speak
401

to him about the newspaper, and told Major Price to ask him for
it.  Major Price assented with a bow only, and the matter
dropped.

I, however, who best knew the danger of its going any farther,
now determined upon speaking to Major Price, and making him
contrive to hush it up.  Utterly impossible, nevertheless, proved
this scheme; Major Price was too great a favourite to be an
instant disengaged.  I was obliged, therefore, to be quiet.


                             A TERRACE PARTY.

Wednesday, Aug. 16-Was the birthday of Prince Frederick, Duke of
York.  The queen sent me in the morning to my dear Mrs. Delany,
whom I had but just found a moment to fly to the preceding day,
and I was commanded to brin- her, if well enough, just as she
was, in her home morning dress, to her majesty.  This I did with
great delight ; and that most venerable of women accepted the
invitation with all the alacrity of pleasure she could have felt
at fifteen.  The queen, in the late excursion, had made many
purchases at Woodstock : and she now made some little presents
from them to this dear lady.

In the evening, as it was again a birthday, I resolved upon going
to the Terrace, as did Mrs. Delany, and with her and Miss Mawer,
and Miss Port, I sallied forth.  To avoid the high steps leading
to the Terrace from the Lodge, we went through a part of the
Castle.

The Terrace was much crowded, though so windy we could hardly
keep our feet ; but I had an agreeable surprise in meeting there
with Dr. Warton.(213)  He joined Mrs. Delany instantly, and kept
with us during the whole walk.  He congratulated me upon my
appointment, in terms of rapture; his ecstacies are excited so
readily, from the excessive warmth of his disposition, and its
proneness to admire and wonder, that my new situation was a
subject to awaken an enthusiasm the most high-flown.

Presently after we were joined by a goodly priest, fat, jovial,
breathing plenty, ease, and good living.  I soon heard him
whisper Mrs. Delany to introduce him to me.  It was Dr. Roberts,
provost of Eton: I had already seen him at Mrs. Delany's last
winter, but no introduction had then passed.  He

402

is a distant relation of Mr. Cambridge.  His wife was with him,
and introduced also.

These also joined us; and in a few minutes more a thin, little,
wizen old gentleman, with eyes that scarce seemed to see, and a
rather tottering gait, came up to Mrs. Delany, and after talking
with her some time, said in a half whisper, "Is that Miss
Burney?"  and then desired a presentation.  It was Mr. Bryant,
the mythologist.(214)  I was very glad to see him, as he bears a
very high character, and lives much in this neighbourhood.  He
talks a great deal, and with the utmost good humour and ease,
casting entirely aside his learning, which I am, nevertheless,
assured is that of one of the most eminent scholars of the age.

We had now a very good party, and seated ourselves in a sort of
alcove, to be sheltered from the wind; but it was so ,ery violent
that it deterred the royal family from walking.  They merely came
on the Terrace to show themselves to those who were eager to pay
their compliments upon the day, and then returned to the Castle.

Dr. Warton insisted upon accompanying me home as far as the iron
rails, to see me enter my re,,al premises.  I did not dare invite
him in, without previous knowledge whether I had any such
privilege; otherwise, with all his parts, and all his experience,
I question whether there is one boy in his school at Winchester
who would more have delighted in feeling himself under the roof
of a sovereign.


                             A NERVOUS READER.

Aug. 17.-From the time that the queen condescended to desire to
place me in immediate attendance upon her own person, I had
always secretly concluded she meant me for her English reader;
since the real duties of my office would have had a far greater
promise of being fulfilled by thousands of others than by myself.
This idea had made the prospect of reading to her extremely awful
to me: an exhibition, at any rate, is painful to me, but one in
which I considered her majesty as a judge, interested for herself
in the sentence she

403

should pronounce, and gratified or disappointed according to its
tenor-this was an exhibition formidable indeed, and must have
been considered as such by anybody in similar circumstances.

Not a book, not a pamphlet, not a newspaper, had I ever seen near
the queen, for the first week, without feeling a panic ; I always
expected to be called upon.  She frequently bid me give her the
papers ; I felt that they would be the worst reading I could
have, because full of danger, in matter as well as manner:
however, she always read them herself.

To-day, after she was dressed, Mrs. Schwellenberg went to her own
room; and the queen, instead of leaving mee, as usual, to go to
mine, desired me to follow her to her sitting dressing-room.  She
then employed me in helping her to arrange her work, which is
chair covers done in ribbon; and then told me to fetch her a
volume of the "Spectator."  I obeyed with perfect tranquillity.
She let me stand by her a little while without speaking, and
then, suddenly, but very gently, said, "Will you read a paper
while I work?"

I was quite "consternated!"   I had not then the smallest
expectation of such a request.  I said nothing, and held the book
unopened.

She took it from me, and pointed out the place where I should
begin.  She is reading them regularly through, for the first
time.  I had no choice: I was forced to obey; but my voice was
less obedient than my will, and it became so husky, and so
unmanageable, that nothing more unpleasant could be heard.  The
paper was a curious one enough--all concerning a Court favourite.
I could hardly rejoice when my task was over, from my
consciousness how ill it was performed.  The queen talked of the
paper, but forbore saying anything of any sort about the reader.
I am sorry, however, to have done so ill.


                   Miss BURNEY REPINES AT HER POSITION.

(Fanny Burney to Mrs. Philips.)
August 20.

. . . . .O my beloved Susan, 'tis a refractory heart I have to
deal with!--it struggles so hard to be sad--and silent--and fly
from you entirely, since it cannot fly entirely to you.  I do all
I can to conquer it, to content it, to give it a taste and
enjoyment for what is still attainable: but at times I cannot
manage
404

it, and it seems absolutely indispensable to my peace to occupy
myself in anything rather than in writing to the person most dear
to me upon earth! . . . If to you alone I show myself in these
dark colours, can you blame the plan that I have intentionally
been forming, namely, to wean myself from myself--to lessen all
my affections--to curb all my wishes--to deaden all my
sensations?  This design, my Susan, I formed so long ago as the
first day my dear father accepted my offered appointment: I
thought that what demanded a complete new system of life,
required, if attainable, a new set of feelings for all enjoyment
of new prospects, and for lessening regrets at what were quitted,
or lost.  Such being my primitive idea, merely from my grief of
separation, imagine but how it was strengthened and confirmed
when the interior of my position became known to me!--when I saw
myself expected by Mrs.  Schwellenberg, not to be her colleague,
but her dependent deputy! not to be her visitor at my own option,
but her companion, her humble companion, at her own command!
This has given so new a character to the place I had accepted
under such different auspices, that nothing but my horror of
disappointing, perhaps displeasing, my dearest father, has
deterred me,from the moment that I made this mortifying
discovery, from soliciting his leave to resign.

But oh my Susan,--kind, good, indulgent as he is to me, I
have not the heart so cruelly to thwart his hopes--his views--his
happiness, in the honours he conceived awaiting my so unsolicited
appointment.  The queen, too, is all sweetness, encouragement,
and gracious goodness to me, and I cannot endure to complain to
her of her old servant.  You see, then, my situation; here I must
remain!--The die is cast, and that struggle is no more.--To keep
off every other, to support the loss of the dearest friends, and
best society, and bear, in exchange, the tyranny, the exigeance,
the ennui, and attempted indignities of their greatest contrast,-
-this must be my constant endeavour.

Amongst my sources of unhappiness in this extraordinary case is,
the very favour that, in any other, might counteract it--namely,
that of the queen: for while, in a manner the most attractive,
she seems inviting my confidence, and deigning to wish my
happiness, she redoubles my conflicts never to shock her with
murmurs against one who, however to me noxious and persecuting,
is to her a faithful and truly devoted old servant.  This will
prevent my ever having my distress and dis-
405

turbance redressed ; for they can never be disclosed.  Could I
have, as my dear father conceived, all the time to myself, my
friends, my leisure, or my own occupations, that is not devoted
to my official duties, how different would be my feelings, how
far more easily accommodated to my privations and sacrifices!
Little does the queen know the slavery I must either resist or
endure.  And so frightful is hostility, that I know not which
part is hardest to perform.


                        MADAME DE GENLIs DISCUSSED.

Windsor, Monday Evening.-Madame de la Fite, who calls upon me
daily, though I am commonly so much engaged I can scarce speak to
her for a moment, came to desire I would let her bring me M.
Argant,(215) who was come to Windsor to show some experiment to
the king.

Madame de la Fite has long pressed me with great earnestness to
write to Madame de Genlis, whose very elegant little note to me I
never have answered.  Alas! what can I do?
I think of her as of one of the first among women--I see her full
of talents and of charms--I am willing to believe her good,
virtuous, and dignified;--yet, with all this, the cry against her
is so violent and so universal, and my belief in her innocence is
wholly unsupported by proof in its favour, or any other argument
than internal conviction, from what I observed of her conduct and
manners and conversation when I saw her in London, that I know
not how to risk a correspondence with her, till better able to
satisfy others, as well as I am satisfied Myself: most
especially, I dare not enter into such an intercourse through
Madame de la Fite, whose indiscreet zeal for us both would lead
her to tell her successful mediation to everybody she could make
hear her.  Already she has greatly distressed me upon this
subject.  Not content with continual importunity to me to write,
ever since my arrival, which I have evaded as gently as possible,
to avoid giving her my bumiliating reasons, she has now written
Madame de Genlis word that I am here, belonging to the same royal
household as herself; and then came to tell me, that as we were
now so closely connected, she proposed our writing jointly, in
the same letter.

All this, with infinite difficulty, I passed over,--pleading my
little time; which indeed she sees is true.  But when M. Argant
was here, she said to me, in French, "M. Argant will imme-

406

diately wait upon Madame de Genlis, for he is going to Paris; he
will tell her he saw us together, and he will carry her a letter'
from me; and surely Miss Burney will not refuse M.  Argant the
happiness of carrying two lines from one lady so celebrated to
another?"  I was quite vexed; a few lines answer the same purpose
as a few sheets; since, once her correspondent, all that I am
hesitating about is as completely over, right or wrong, as if I
wrote to her weekly.

As soon as they left me, I hastened to my dear Mrs. Delany, to
consult with her what to do.  "By all means," cried she, "tell
the affair of your difficulties whether to write to her or not,
to the queen : it will unavoidably spread, if you enter into such
a correspondence, and the properest step you can take, the safest
and the happiest, is to have her opinion, and be guided by it.
Madame de Genlis is so public a character, you can hardly
correspond with her in private, and it would be better the queen
should hear of such an intercourse from yourself than from any
other."

I entirely agreed in the wisdom of her advice, though I very much
doubted my power to exert sufficient courage to speak, unasked,
upon any affair of my own.  You may be sure I resolved to spare
poor Madame de la Fite, in my application, if I made it: "to
write, or not to write," was all I wanted to determine; for the
rest, I must run any risk rather than complain of a friend who
always means well. . . .

An opportunity offered the next morning, for the queen again
commanded me to follow her into her saloon ; and there she was so
gentle, and so gracious, that I ventured to speak of Madame de
Genlis.

It was very fearfully that I took this liberty.  I dreaded lest
she should imagine I meant to put myself under her direction, as
if presuming she would be pleased to direct me.  Something, I
told her, I had to say, by the advice of Mrs. Delany, which I
begged her permission to communicate.  She assented in silence,
but with a look of the utmost softness, and yet mixed with strong
surprise.  I felt my voice faltering, and I was with difficulty
able to go on,-so new to me was it to beg to be heard, who,
hitherto, have always been begged to speak.  There is no
absolutely accounting for the forcible emotions which every
totally new situation and new effort will excite in a mind
enfeebled, like mine, by a long succession of struggling
agitations.  I got behind her chair, that she might not see a
distress she might wonder at: for it was not this application
407

itself that affected me ; it was the novelty of my own situation,
the new power I was calling forth over my proceedings, and the--O
my Susan!--the all that I was changing from--relinquishing-of the
past--and hazarding for the future!

With many pauses, and continual hesitation, I then told her that
I had been earnestly pressed by Madame de Genlis to correspond
with her; that I admired her with all my heart, and, with all my
heart, believed all good of her; but that, nevertheless, my
personal knowledge of her was too slight to make me wish so
intimate an intercourse, which I had carefully shunned upon all
occasions but those where my affection as well as my admiration
had been interested ; though I felt such a request from such a
woman as Madame de Genlis as an honour, and therefore not to be
declined without some reason stronger than my own general
reluctance to proposals of that sort ; and I found her unhappily,
and I really and sincerely believed undeservedly, encircled with
such powerful enemies, and accused with so much confidence of
having voluntarily provoked them, that I could not, even in my
own mind, settle if it were right to connect myself with her so
closely, till I could procure information more positive in her
favour, in order to answer the attacks of those who asperse
her,(216) and who would highly blame me for entering into a
correspondence with a character not more unquestionably known to
me.  I had been desirous to wait, suspended, till this fuller
knowledge might be brought about; but I was now solicited into a
decision, by M. Argant, who was immediately going to her, and who
must either take her a letter from me or show her, by taking
none, that I was bent upon refusing her request.

The queen heard me with the greatest attention, and then said,
"Have you yet writ to her?"

No, I said; I had had a little letter from her, but I received it
just as the Duchess of Portland died, when my whole mind was so
much occupied by Mrs. Delany, that I could not answer it.
\
"I will speak to you then," cried she, "very honestly; if you
have not yet writ, I think it better you should not write.  If
you had begun, it would be best to go on; but as you have

408

not, it will be the safest way to let it alone.  You may easily
say, without giving her any offence, that you are now too much
engaged to find time for entering into any new correspondence."

I thanked her for this open advice as well as I was able, and I
felt the honour its reliance upon my prudence did me, as well as
the kindness of permitting such an excuse to be made.

The queen talked on, then, of Madame de Genlis with the utmost
frankness; she admired her as much as I had done myself, but had
been so assaulted with tales to her disadvantage, that she
thought it unsafe and indiscreet to form any connection with her.
Against her own judgment, she had herself been almost tormented
into granting her a private audience, from the imprudent
vehemence of one of Madame de G.'s friends here, with whom she
felt herself but little pleased for what she had done, and who, I
plainly saw, from that unfortunate injudiciousness, would lose
all power of exerting any influence in future.  Having thus
unreservedly explained herself, she finished the subject, and has
never started it since.  But she looked the whole time with a
marked approbation of my applying to her.

Poor Madame de Genlis! how I grieve at the cloud which hovers
over so much merit, too bright to be bid but not to be obscured.


                        A DISTINGUISHED ASTRONOMER.

In the evening Mr.  Herschel(217) came to tea.  I had once seen
that very extraordinary man at Mrs. de Luc's, but was happy to
see him again, for he has not more fame to awaken curiosity, than
sense and modesty to gratify it.  He is perfectly unassuming, yet
openly happy; and happy in the success of those studies which
would render a mind less excellently formed presumptuous and
arrogant.  The king has not a happier subject than this man, who
owes wholly to his majesty that he is not wretched : for such was
his eagerness to quit all other pursuits to follow astronomy
solely, that he was in

409

danger of ruin, when his talents, and great and uncommon genius,
attracted the king's patronage.  He has now not only his pension,
which gives him the felicity of devoting all his time to his
darling study, but he is indulged in licence from the king to
make a telescope according to his new ideas and discoveries, that
is to have no cost spared in its construction, and is wholly to
be paid for by his majesty.

This seems to have made him happier even than the pension, as it
enables him to put in execution all his wonderful projects, from
which his expectations of future discoveries are so sanguine as
to make his present existence a state of almost perfect
enjoyment.  Mr. Locke himself would be quite charmed with him.
He seems a man without a wish that has its object in the
terrestrial globe.

At night, Mr. Herschel, by the king's command, came to exhibit to
his majesty and the royal family the new comet lately discovered
by his sister, Miss Herschel; and while I was playing at piquet
with Mrs. Schwellenberg, the Princess Augusta came into the room,
and asked her if she chose to go into the garden and look at it.
She declined the offer, and the princess then made it to me.  I
was glad to accept it, for all Sorts Of reasons.

We found him at his telescope, and I mounted some steps to look
through it.  The comet was very small, and had nothing grand or
striking in its appearance ; but it is the first lady's comet,
and I was very desirous to see it.  Mr. Herschel then showed me
some of his new-discovered universes, with all the good humour
with which he would have taken the same trouble for a brother or
a sister-astronomer : there is no possibility of admiring his
genius more than his gentleness.


                       EFFUSIVE MADAMF DE LA ROCHE.

I come now to introduce to you, with a new character, some new
perplexities from my situation.  Madame de la Fite called the
next morning, to tell me she must take no denial to forming me a
new acquaintance--Madarne de la Roche, a German by birth, but
married to a Frenchman;--an authoress, a woman of talents and
distinction, a character highly celebrated, and unjustly
suffering from an adherence to the Protestant religion.(218)

410

"She dies with eagerness to see you," she added, in French, ".and
I have invited her to Windsor, where I have told her I have no
other feast prepared for her but to show her Dr. Herschel and
Miss Burney."

I leave you to imagine if I felt competent to fulfil such a
promise : openly, on the contrary, I assured her I was quite
unequal to it.  She had already, she said, written to Madame de
la Roche, to come the next day, and if I would not meet her she
must be covered with disgrace.  Expostulation was now vain; I
could only say that to answer for myself was quite, out of my own
power.

"And why?--and wherefore?--and what for?--and surely to me!--and
surely for Madame de la Roche!--une femme d'esPrit--mon amie--
l'amie de Madame de Genlis," etc., etc., filled up a hurried
conference in the midst of my dressing for the queen, till a
summons interrupted her, and forced me, half dressed, and all too
late, to run away from her, with an extorted promise to wait upon
her if I possibly could.

Accordingly I went, and arrived before Madame de la Roche.  Poor
Madame de la Fite received me in transport; and I soon witnessed
another transport, at least equal, to Madame de la Roche, which
happily was returned with the same warmth; and it was not till
after a thousand embraces, and the most ardent professions--"Ma
digne amie!--est il possible?--te vois-je?" etc.--that I
discovered they had never before met in their lives!--they had
corresponded, but, no more!(219)


This somewhat lessened my surprise, however, when my turn
arrived; for no sooner was I named than all the embrassades were
transferred to me--"La digne Miss Borni!--l'auteur de C`ecile?-
-d'Evelina?--non, ce n'est pas possible!-suis-je si

411

heureuse!--oui, je le vois `a ses yeux!--Ah! que de bonheur!"
etc. . . .

Madame de la Roche, had I met her in any other way, might have
pleased me in no common degree; for could I have conceived her
character to be unaffected, her manners have a softness that
would render her excessively engaging.  She is now bien pass`ee--
no doubt fifty--yet has a voice of touching sweetness, eyes of
dove-like gentleness, looks supplicating for favour, and an air
and demeanour the most tenderly caressing.  I can suppose she has
thought herself all her life the model of the favourite heroine
of her own favourite romance, and I can readily believe that she
has had attractions in her youth nothing short of fascinating.
Had I not been present, and so deeply engaged in this interview,
I had certainly been caught by her myself; for in her presence I
constantly felt myself forgiving and excusing what in her absence
I as constantly found past defence or apology.

Poor Madame de la Fite has no chance in her presence for though
their singular enthusiasm upon " the people of the literature,"
as Pacchierotti called them, is equal, Madame de la Fite almost
subdues by her vehemence, while Madame de la Roche almost melts
by her softness.  Yet I fairly believe they are both very good
women, and both believe themselves sincere.

I returned still time enough to find Mrs. Schwellenberg with her
tea-party ; and she was very desirous to hear something of Madame
de la Roche.  I was led by this to give a short account of her :
not such a one as you have heard, because I kept it quite
independent of all reference to poor Madame de la Fite; but there
was still enough to make a little narration.  Madame de ]a Roche
had told me that she had been only three days in England, and had
yet made but a beginning of seeing les spectacles and les gens
c`el`ebres;--and what do you think was the first, and, as yet,
sole spectacle to which she had been carried?--Bedlam!--And who
the first, and, as yet, only homme c`el`ebre she had seen--Lord
George Gordon!--whom she called le fameux George Gordon, and with
whom she had dined, in company with Count Cagliostro.

Sunday, Sept. 17-At the chapel this morning, Madame de la Fite
placed Madame de la Roche between herself and me, and proposed
bringing her to the Lodge, "to return my visit."  This being
precisely what I had tried to avoid, and to avoid without
shocking Madame de la Fite, by meeting her corre-
412

spondent at her own house, I was much chagrined at such a
proposal, but had no means to decline it, as it was made across
Madame de la Roche herself.

Accordingly, at about two o'clock, when I came from the queen, I
found them both in full possession of my room, and Madame de la
Fite occupied in examining my books.  The thing thus being done,
and the risk of consequences inevitable, I had only to receive
them with as little display of disapprobation of their measures
as I could help ; but one of the most curious scenes followed I
have ever yet been engaged in or witnessed.

As soon as we were seated, Madame de la Fite began with assuring
me, aloud, of the "conquest" I had made of Madaine de la Roche,
and appealed to that lady for the truth of what she said.  Madame
de la Roche answered her by rising, and throwing her arms about
me, and kissing my cheeks from side to side repeatedly.

Madame de la Fite, as soon as this was over, and we had resumed
our seats, opened the next subject, by saying Madame de la Roche
had read and adored "Cecilia:" again appealing to her for
confirmation of her assertion.

"O, oui, oui!" cried her friend, "mais la vraie C`ecile, est Miss
Borni! charmante Miss Borni! digne, douce, et aimable--com to me
arms! que je vous embrasse millefois!"

Again we were all deranged, and again the same ceremony being
performed, we all sat ourselves down.  "Cecilia" was hen talked
over throughout, in defiance of every obstacle I could put in its
way.  After this, Madame de la Fite said, in French, that Madame
de la Roche had had the most extraordinary life and adventures
that had fallen to anybody's lot; and finished with saying, "Eh!
ma ch`ere amie, contez-nous un peu."

They were so connected, she answered, in their early part with M.
Wieland, the famous author, that they would not be itelligible
without his story.

Madame de la Roche, looking down upon her fan, began then the
recital.  She related their first interview, the gradations of
their mutual attachment, his extraordinary talents, his literary
fame and name; the breach of their union from motives of prudence
in their friends; his change of character from piety to
voluptuousness, in consoling himself for her loss with an
actress; his various adventures, and various transformations from
good to bad, in life and conduct; her own marriage with
413

M. de ]a Roche, their subsequent meeting when she was mother of
three children, and all the attendant circumstances.

This narrative was told in so touching and pathetic a manner, and
interspersed with so many sentiments of tenderness and of
heroism, that I could scarcely believe I was not actually
listening to a Clelia, or a Cassandra, recounting the stories of
her youth.(220)

When she had done, and I had thanked her, Madame de la Fite
demanded of me what I thought of her, and if she was not
delightful ? I assented, and Madame de la Roche then, rising, and
fixing her eyes, filled with tears, in my face, while she held
both my hands, in the most melting accents, exclaimed, "Miss
Borni! la plus ch`ere, la plus digne des Angloises!
dites-moi-m'aimez-vous!"

I answered as well as I could, but what I said was not very
positive.  Madame de la Fite came up to us, and desired we might
make a trio of friendship, which should bind us to oneanother for
life.  And then they both embraced me, and both wept for joyful
fondness!  I fear I seemed very hard-hearted; but no spring was
opened whence one tear of mine could flow.


A DINNER DIFFICULTY.

The clock had struck four some time, and Madame de la Fite said
she feared they kept me from dinner.  I knew it must soon be
ready, and therefore made but a slight negative.  She then, with
an anxious look at her watch, said she feared she was already too
late for her own little dinner.  I was shocked at a hint I had no
power to notice, and heard it in silence--silence unrepressing!
for she presently added, "You dine alone, don't you?"

"Y-e-s,--if Mrs. Schwellenberg is not well enough to come down
stairs to dinner."

"And can you dine, ma ch`ere mademoiselle--can you dine at that
great table alone?"

"I must !--the table is not mine."

"Yes, in Mrs. Schwellenberg's absence it is."

414

"It has never been made over to me, and I take no power that is
not given to me."

"But the queen, my dearest ma'am--the queen, if she knew such a
person as Madame de la Roche was here."

She stopped, and I was quite disconcerted.  An attack so
explicit, and in presence of Madame de la Roche, was beyond all
my expectations.  She then went to the window, and exclaimed, "It
rains!--Mon Dieu! que ferons-nous?--My poor littel dinner!--it
will be all spoilt!--La pauvre Madame de la Roche! une telle
femme!"

I was now really distressed, and wished much to invite them both
to stay; but I was totally helpless ; and could only look, as I
felt, in the utmost embarrassment.

The rain continued.  Madame de la Roche could understand but
imperfectly what passed, and waited its result with an air of
smiling patience.  I endeavoured to talk of other things - but
Madame de la Fite was restless in returning to this charge.  She
had several times given me very open hints of her desire to dine
at Mrs. Schwellenberg's table ; but I had hitherto appeared not
to comprehend them: she was now determined to come home to the
point; and the more I saw her determination, the less liable I
became to being overpowered by it.  At length John came to
announce dinner.

Madame de la Fite looked at me in a most expressive manner, as
she rose and walked towards the window, exclaiming that the rain
would not cease; and Madame de la Roche cast upon me a most
tender smile, while she lamented that some accident must have
prevented her carriage from coming for her.  I felt excessively
ashamed, and could only beg them not to be in haste, faithfully
assuring them I was by no means disposed for eating.

Poor Madame de la Fite now lost all command of herself, and
desiring to speak to me in my own room, said, pretty explicitly,
that certainly I might keep anybody to dinner, at so great a
table, and all alone, if I wished it.

I was obliged to be equally frank.  I acknowledged that I had
reason to believe I might have had that power, from the custom of
my predecessor, Mrs. Haggerdorn, upon my first succeeding to her
; but that I was then too uncertain of any Of my privileges to
assume a single one of them unauthorised by the queen.  Madame de
la Fite was not at all satisfied, and significantly said,

"But you have sometimes Miss Planta?"
415

"And M. de Luc, too,-he may dine with you

" He also comes to Mrs. Schwellenberg.  Mrs. Delany alone, and
her niece, come to me; and they have had the sanction of the
queen's own desire."

"Mais, enfin, ma ch`ere Miss Burney,--when it rains,--and when it
is so late,--and when it is for such a woman as Madame de la
Roche!"

So hard pressed, I was quite shocked to resist her ; but I
assured her that when my own sisters, Phillips and Francis, came
to Windsor purposely to see me, they had never dined at the Lodge
but by the express invitation of Mrs. Schwellenberg; and that
when my father himself was here, I had not ventured to ask him.
This, though it surprised, somewhat appeased her; and we were
called into the other room to Miss Planta, who was to dine with
me, and who, unluckily, said the dinner would be quite cold.

They begged us both to go, and leave them till the rain was over,
or till Madame de la Roche's carriage arrived.  I could not bear
to do this, but entreated Miss Planta, who was in haste, to go
and dine by herself.  This, at last, was agreed to, and I tried
once again to enter into discourse upon other matters.  But how
greatly did my disturbance at all this urgency increase, when
Madame de la Fite said she was so hungry she must beg a bit of
bread and a glass of water!

I was now, indeed, upon the point of giving way; but when I
considered, while I hesitated, what must follow-my own necessary
apology, which would involve Madame de la Fite in much blame, or
my own concealing silence, which would reverse all my plans of
openness with the queen, and acquiesced with my own situation-I
grew firm again, and having assured her a thousand times of my
concern for my little power, I went into the next room : but I
sent her the roll and water by John; I was too much ashamed to
carry them.

When I returned to them again, Madame de la Fite requested rne to
go at once to the queen, and tell her the case.  Ah, poor Madame
de la Fite Fi to see so little a way for herself, and to suppose me
also so every way short-sighted ! I informed her that I never
entered the presence of the queen unsummoned. . . .

Again she desired to speak to me in my own room ; and then she
told me that Madame de la Roche had a most earnest wish, to see
all the royal family; she hoped, therefore, the
416

queen would go to early prayers at the chapel, where, at least
she might be beheld : but she gave me sundry hints, not to
be misunderstood, that she thought I might so represent the
merits of Madame de la Roche as to induce the honour of a private
audience.

I could give her no hope of this, as I had none to give for I
well knew that the queen has a settled aversion to almost all
novels, and something very near it to almost all novelwriters.

She then told me she had herself requested an interview for her
with the princess royal, and had told her that if it was too much
to grant it in the royal apartments, at least it might take place
in Miss Burney's room !  Her royal highness coldly answered that
she saw nobody without the queen's commands. . . .

In the end, the carriage of Madame de la Roche arrived, about
tea-time, and Madame de la Fite finished with making me promise
to relate my difficulties to the queen, that she might give me
such orders as to enable me to keep them any other time.  To give
you the result at once, Miss Planta, of her own accord, briefly
related the affair to the queen, dwelling upon my extreme
embarrassment, with the most good-natured applause of its
motives.  The queen graciously joined in commendation of my
steadiness, expressed her disapprobation of the indelicacy of
poor Madame de la Fite, and added that if I had been overcome, it
would have been an encouragement to her to bring foreigners for
ever to the Lodge, wholly contrary to the pleasure of the king.


                            AN ECCENTRIC LADY.

Sept. 25.-Mrs. Delany came to me to dinner, and we promised
ourselves the whole afternoon t`ete-`a-t`ete, with no other
interruption than what we were well contented to allow to Major
Price and General Bud`e.  But before we were well settled in my
room, after our late dinner in the next, a visitor appeared,-Miss
Finch.

We were both sadly vexed at this disappointment ; but you will
wonder to hear that I became, in a few minutes, as averse to her
going as I had been to her coming : for the Princess Amelia was
brought in, by Mrs. Cheveley, to carry away Mrs. Delany to the
queen. I had now, therefore, no one, but this chance-comer, to
assist me in doing the honours to my two

417

beaus; and well as I like their company, I by no means enjoyed
the prospect of receiving them alone: not, I protest, and am
sure, from any prudery, but simply from thinking that a single
female, in a party, either large or small, of men, unless very
much used to the world, appears to be in a situation awkward and
unbecoming.

I was quite concerned, therefore, to hear from Miss Finch that
she meant but a short visit, for some reasons belonging to her
carriage ; and when she rose to go, I felt my distaste to this
new mode of proceeding so strong, that I hastily related to her
my embarrassment, and frankly begged her to stay and help to
recreate my guests.  She was very much diverted with this
distress, which she declared she could not comprehend, but
frankly agreed to remain with me; and promised, at my earnest
desire, not to publish what I had confessed to her, lest I should
gain, around Windsor, the character of a prude.

I had every reason to be glad that I detained her, for she not
only made my meeting with the equerries easy and pleasant, but
was full of odd entertainment herself.  She has a large portion
of whimsical humour, which, at times, is original and amusing,
though always eccentric, and frequently, from uttering whatever
comes uppermost, accidental.

Among many other flights, she very solemnly declared that she
could never keep any body's face in her mind when they were out
of her sight.  "I have quite forgot," cried she, "the Duke of
York already, though I used to see him so continually.  Really,
it's quite terrible, but I cannot recollect a single trait of
anybody when they are the shortest time out of my sight;
especially if they are dead;--it's quite shocking, but really i
can never remember the face of a person the least in the world
when once they are dead!" '

The major, who knows her very well, and who first had introduced
her to me on my settling here, was much amused with her rattle;
and General Bud`e is always pleased with anything bordering upon
the ridiculous.  Our evening therefore turned out very well.


THE                         WRONG GUEST INVITED.

I have something to relate now that both my dearest friends will
take great pleasure in hearing, because it appertains to my
dignity and consequence.  The queen, in the most gracious manner,
desired me this morning to send an invitation to M.
418

Mithoff, a German clergyman, to come to dinner; and she added, "I
assure you he is a very worthy man, of very excellent character,
or I would not ask you to invite him."

Was not this a very sweet manner of making over to me the
presidency of the table in Mrs. Schwellenberg's absence?

It was for the next day, and I sent John to him immediately
;-rather awkward, though, to send my compliments to a man I had
never seen, and invite him to dine with me.  But there was no
other mode --I could not name the queen.  I knew Miss Port would
be happy to make us a trio, and I begged her not to fail me.

But alas!--If awkwardness was removed, something worse was
substituted in its place ; my presidency was abolished on the
very day it was to be declared, by the sudden return of its
rightful superseder.  I acquainted her with the invitation I had
been desired to send, and I told her I bad also engaged Miss
Port.  I told of both as humbly as possible, that I might raise
no alarms of any intention of rivalry in power.

Mr. Mithoff was not yet come when dinner was announced, nor yet
Miss Port; we sat down t`ete-`a-t`ete, myself in some pain for my
invitations, my companion well content to shew she would wait for
none of my making,

At length came Miss Port, and presently after a tall German
clergyman entered the room.  I was a little confused by his
immediately making up to me, and thanking me in the strongest
terms for the honour of my invitation, and assuring me it was the
most flattering one he had ever received.

I answered as short as I could, for I was quite confounded by the
looks of Mrs. Schwellenberg.  Towards me they were directed with
reproach, and towards the poor visitor with astonishment: why I
could not imagine, as I had frequently heard her speak of M.
Mithoff with praise.

Finding nothing was said to him, I was obliged to ask him to take
a place at the table myself, which he did; still, and with great
glee of manner, addressing himself wholly to me, and never
finishing his warm expressions of gratitude for my invitation.  I
quite longed to tell him I had her majesty's orders for what I
had done, that he might cease his most unmerited acknowledgments;
but I could not at that time.  The dinner went off very ill .
nobody said a word but this gentleman, and he spoke only to do
himself mischief.

When we all adjourned to Mrs. Schwellenberg's room up-
419

stairs, for coffee, my new guest again poured forth such a
torrent of thanks, that I could not resist taking the first
opportunity to inform him he owed me no such strong obligation,
as I had simply obeyed the commands of the queen.

"The queen!" he exclaimed, with yet greater enchantment; "then I
am very happy indeed, madam; I had been afraid at first there was
some mistake in the honour you did me."

"It might have seemed a mistake indeed, sir," cried I, "if you
supposed I had taken the liberty of making you such an
invitation, without the pleasure of knowing you myself."

Mrs. Schwellenberg, just after, calling me aside, said, "For what
have you brought me this man?"

I could make no answer, lest he should hear me, for I saw him
look uneasily towards us ; and therefore, to end such
interrogations, I turned to him, and asked how many days he
should continue at Windsor.  He looked Surprised, and said he had
no thought of leaving it.

It was my turn to look surprised now; I had heard he only came
upon her majesty's commands, and was to stay but a day or two.  I
now began to suspect some mistake, and that my message had gone
to a wrong person.  I hastened, therefore, to pronounce the name
of Mithoff, and my suspicion was changed into certainty, by his
telling me, with a stare, that it was not his.

Imagine but my confusion at this information !-the queen's
commission so ill executed, M. Mithoff neglected, and some one
else invited whose very name I knew not!--nor did he, though my
mistake now was visible, tell it me.  Yet he looked so much
disappointed, that I thought it incumbent upon me, since the
blunder must have been my servant's, to do what I could to
comfort him.  I therefore forced myself forward to talk to him,
and pass over the embarrassment but he was modest, and
consequently overset, and soon after took his leave.

I then cleared myself to Mrs. Schwellenberg of any voluntary deed
in " bringing her this man," and inquired of John how it
happened.  He told me he had forgot the gentleman's name, but as
I had said he was a German clergyman, he had asked for him as
such, and thought this must be the right person.  I heard
afterwards that this is a M. Schrawder, one of the masters of the
German language to the princesses.  I jDacle all the apologies in
my power to him for the error. . . .

The queen, at night, with great good humour, laughed at the
420

mistake, and only desired it might be rectified for the next day.
Accordingly it was ; and M. Mithoff had an invitation for the
next day, in proper order: that is, from Mrs. Schwellenberg,


                      THE PRINCEss ROYAL's BIRTHDAY.

Friday, Sept. 29-This day the princess royal entered her
twenty-first year.  I had the pleasure of being in the room with
the queen when she sent for her, early in the morning.  Her
majesty bid me stop, while she went into another apartment to
fetch her birthday gifts.  The charming princess entered with so
modest, so composed an air, that it seemed as if the day, with
all its preparations for splendour, was rather solemn than
elevating to her.  I had no difficulty, thus alone with her, in
offering my best wishes to her.  She received them most
gracefully, and told me, with the most sensible pleasure, that
the King had just been with her, and presented to her a
magnificent diamond necklace.

The queen then returned, holding in her hands two very pretty
portfolios for her drawings, and a very fine gold etui.  The
princess, in receiving them with the lowest curtsey, kissed her
hand repeatedly, while the queen gave back her kisses upon her
cheeks.

The king came in soon after, and the three youngest princesses.
They all flew to kiss the princess royal, who is affectionately
fond of them all.  Princess Amelia shewed how fine she was, and
made the queen admire her new coat and frock ; she then examined
all the new dresses of her sisters, and then looking towards me
with some surprise, exclaimed, " And won't Miss Burney be fine,
too?"

I shall not easily forget this little innocent lesson.  It seems
all the household dress twice on these birthdays--for their first
appearance, and for dinner-and always in something distinguished.
I knew it not, and had simply prepared for my second attire only,
wearing in the morning my usual white dimity great coat.  I was a
little out of countenance ; and the queen, probably perceiving
it, said--

" Come hither, Amelia; who do you think is here-in Miss Burney's
room?"

"Lany," answered the quick little creature ; for so she calls
Mrs. Delany, who had already exerted herself to come to the Lodge
with her congratulations.

The king, taking the hand of the little princess, said they
421

would go and see her ; and turning to the queen as they left the
room, called out,

What shall we do with Mrs. Delany?"

"What the king pleases," was her answer.

I followed them to my room, where his majesty stayed some time,
giving that dear old lady a history of the concert of the
preceding evening, and that he had ordered for this day for the
princess royal.  It is rather unfortunate her royal highness
should have her birth-day celebrated by an art which she even
professes to have no taste for, and to hear almost with pain.

The king took Mrs. Delany to breakfast with himself and family.

I wore my memorable present-gown this day in honour of the
princess royal.  It is a lilac tabby.  I saw the king for a
minute at night, as he returned from the Castle, and he
graciously admired it, calling out "Emily should see Miss
Burney's gown now, and she would think her fine enough."


                         ARRIVAL OF A NEw EQUERRY.

The following evening I first saw the newly-arrived equerry,
Colonel Goldsworthy.  Mrs. Schwellenberg was ill, and sent for
Mr. de Luc, and told me to go into the eating-roorn, and make the
tea for her.  I instantly wrote to Miss Port, to beg she would
come to assist me : she did, and Mrs. Schwellenberg, changing her
plan, came downstairs at the same time.  The party was Major
Price, General Bud`e, Mr. Fisher, and the colonel.  Major Price
immediately presented us to each other.

"Upon my word!" cried Mrs. Schwellenberg, "you do the honour here
in my room!--you might leave that to me, Major Price!"

"What! my brother equerry?" cried he; "No, ma'am, I think I have
a right there."

Colonel Goldsworthy's character stands very high for worth and
honour, and he is warmly attached to the king, both for his own
sake, and from the tie that binds him to all the royal family, of
regard for a sister extremely dear to him, Miss Goldsworthy,
whose residence here brings him frequently to the palace.  He
seems to me a man of but little cultivation or literature, but
delighting in a species of dry humour, in which he shines most
successfully, in giving up himself for its favourite butt.
422

He brought me a great many compliments, he said, from Dr. Warton,
of Winchester, where he had lately been quartered with his
regiment.  He rattled away very amusingly upon the balls and the
belles he had seen there, laughing at his own gallantry, and
pitying and praising himself alternately for venturing to exert
it.


                    CUSTODIAN OF THE QUEEN'S JEWEL Box.

Od. 2-The next day we were all to go to Kew : but Mrs,
Schwellenberg was taken ill, and went by herself to town.

The queen sent for me after breakfast, and delivered to me a long
box, called here the jewel box, in which her jewels are carried
to and from town that are worn on the Drawing-room days.  The
great bulk of them remain in town all the winter, and remove to
Windsor for all the summer, with the rest of the family.  She
told me, as she delivered the key into my hands, that as there
was always much more room in the box than her travelling jewels
occupied, I might make what use I pleased of the remaining part ;
adding, with a very expressive smile, "I dare say you have books
and letters that you may be glad to carry backwards and forwards
with you."

I owned that nothing was more true, and thankfully accepted the
offer.  It has proved to me since a comfort of the first
magnitude, in conveying all my choice papers and letters safely
in the carriage with me, as well as books in present reading, and
numerous odd things. . . .

Friday, Oct. 6. - We returned to Windsor without Mrs.
Schwellenberg, who stayed in town for her physician's advice.
The queen went immediately to Mrs. Delany, and the princess royal
came into my room.

"I beg pardon," she cried, "for what I am going to say: I hope
you will excuse my taking such a liberty with you--but, has
nobody told you that the queen is always used to have the
jewel-box carried into her bedroom?"

"No, ma'am, nobody mentioned it to me.  I brought it here because
I have other things in it."

"I thought, when I did not see it in mamma's room," cried she,
"that nobody had told you of that custom, and so I thought I
would come to you myself: I hope you will excuse it?"

You may believe how I thanked her, while I promised to take out
my own goods and chattels, and have it conveyed to
423

its proper place immediately.  I saw that she imagined the queen
might be displeased; and though I could never myself imagine
that, for an omission of ignorance, I felt the benevolence of her
intention, and received it with great gratitude.

"My dear ma'am," cried she, "I am sure I should be most happy to
do anything for you that should be in my power, always; and
really Mrs. Schwellenberg ought to have told you this."

Afterwards I happened to be alone with this charming princess,
and her sister Elizabeth, in the queen's dressing-room.  She then
came up to me and said,

"Now will you excuse me, Miss Burney, if I ask you the truth of
something I have heard about you?"

"Certainly, ma'am."

"It's such an odd thing, I don't know how to mention it; but I
have wished to ask you about it this great while.  Pray is it
really true that, in your illness last year, you coughed so
violently that you broke the whalebone of your stays in two?"

"As nearly true as possible, ma'am;it actually split with the
force of the almost convulsive motion of a cough that seemed loud
and powerful enough for a giant.  I could hardly myself believe
it was little I that made so formidable a noise."

"Well, I could not have given credit to it if I had not heard it
from yourself! I wanted so much to know the truth, that I
determined, at last, to take courage and ask you."

"And pray, Miss Burney," cried the Princess Elizabeth, "had you
not a blister that gave you great torture?"

"Yes, ma'am,--in another illness."

"O!--I know how to pity you!--I have one on at this moment!

"And pray, Miss Burney," cried the princess royal, "were not you
carried out of town, when you were in such a weak condition that
you could not walk?"

"Where could your royal highness hear all this?"

"And were you not almost starved by Sir Richard jebb?" cried
Princess Elizabeth.

"And did you not receive great benefit from asses' rnilk?"
exclaimed the princess royal.

Again I begged to know their means of hearing all this; but the
queen's entrance silenced us all,
424

                    A LAUDATORY ESTIMATE OF THE QUEEN.

The queen was unremittingly sweet and gracious, never making me
sensible of any insufficiency from My single attendance; which,
to me, was an opportunity the most favourable in the world for
becoming more intimately acquainted with her mind and
understanding.  For the excellency of her mind I was fully
prepared ; the testimony of the nation at large could not be
unfaithful ; but the depth and soundness of her understanding
surprised me : good sense I expected - to that alone she could
owe the even tenor of her conduct, universally approved, though
examined and judged by the watchful eye of multitudes.  But I had
not imagined that, shut up in the confined limits of a Court, she
could have acquired any but the most superficial knowledge of the
world, and the most partial insight into character.  But I find,
now, I have only done justice to her disposition, not to her
parts, which are truly of that superior order that makes sagacity
intuitively supply the place of experience.  In the course of
this month I spent much time quite alone with her, and never once
quitted her presence without fresh admiration of her talents.

There are few points I have observed with more pleasure in her
than all that concerns the office which brings me to her in this
private and confidential manner.  All that breaks from her, in
our t`ete-`a-t`etes, upon the subject of dress, is both edifying
and amiable.  She equips herself for the drawing-room with all
the attention in her power; she neglects nothing that she thinks
becoming to her appearance upon those occasions, and is sensibly
conscious that her high station makes her attire in public a
matter of business.  As such, she submits to it without
murmuring; but a yet stronger consciousness of the real futility
of such mere outward grandeur bursts from her, involuntarily, the
moment the sacrifice is paid, and she can never refuse herself
the satisfaction of expressing her contentment to put on a quiet
undress.  The great coats are so highly in her favour, from the
quickness with which they enable her to finish her toilette, that
she sings their praise with fresh warmth every time she is
allowed to wear them, archly saying to me, with most expressive
eyes, "If I could write--if I could but write!--how I would
compose upon a great coat!  I wish I were a poetess, that I might
make a song upon it--I do think something very pretty might be
said about it."

These hints she has given me continually ; but the Muse
425

was not so kind as ever to make me think of the matter again when
out of her sight-till, at last, she one day, in putting on this
favourite dress, half gravely, said, "I really take it a little
ill you won't write something upon these great coats!"

I only laughed, yet, when I left her, I scribbled a few stanzas,
copied them very fairly, and took them, as soon as they were
finished, into her room ; and there kept them safely in my
pocket-book, for I knew not how to produce them, and she, by odd
accident, forbore from that time to ask for them, though her
repeated suggestion had, at last, conquered my literary
indolence.(221)

I cannot here help mentioning a very interesting little scene at
which I was present, about this time.  The queen had nobody but
myself with her, one morning, when the king hastily entered the
room, with some letters in his hand, and addressing her in
German, which he spoke very fast, and with much apparent interest
in what he said, he brought the letters up to her, and put them
into her hand.  She received them with much agitation, but
evidently of a much pleased sort, and endeavoured to kiss his
hand as he held them.  He would not let her, but made an effort,
with a countenance of the highest satisfaction, to kiss hers.  I
saw instantly in her eyes a forgetfulness, at the moment, that
any one was present, while, drawing away her hand, she presented
him her cheek.  He accepted her kindness with the same frank
affection that she offered it; and the next moment they both
spoke English, and talked upon common and general subjects.

What they said I am far enough from knowing; but the whole was
too rapid to give me time to quit the room ; and I could not but
see with pleasure that the queen had received some favour with
which she was sensibly delighted, and that the king, in her
acknowledgments, was happily and amply paid.


                            TABLE DIFFICULTIES.

No sooner did I find that my coadjutrix ceased to speak of
returning to Windsor,(222)  and that I became, by that means, the
presidentess of the dinner and teatable, than I formed a grand
design--no other than to obtain to my own use the disposal of my
evenings.

426

>From the time of my entrance into this Court, to that of which I
am writing, I had never been informed that it was incumbent upon
me to receive the king's equerries at the teatable ; yet I
observed that they always came to Mrs. Schwellenberg, and that
she expected them so entirely as never to make tea till their
arrival.  Nevertheless, nothing of that sort had ever been
intimated to me, and I saw no necessity of falling into all her
ways, without commands to that purpose : nor could I conclude
that the king's gentlemen would expect from me either the same
confinement, or readiness of reception, as had belonged to two
invalid old ladies, glad of company, and without a single
connection to draw them from home. . . .

I could not, however, but be struck with a circumstance that
shewed me, in a rather singular manner, my tea-making seemed at
once to be regarded as indispensable : this was no other than a
constant summons, which John regularly brought me every evening,
from these gentlemen, to acquaint me they were come upstairs to
the tea-room, and waiting for me.

I determined not to notice this: and consequently, the first time
Mrs. Delany was not well enough to give me her valuable society
at the Lodge, I went to her house, and spent the evening there;
without sending any message to the equerries, as any apology must
imply a right on their part that must involve me in future
confinement.

This I did three or four times, always with so much success as to
gain my point for the moment, but never with such happy
consequences as to ensure it me for the time to come; since every
next meeting shewed an air of pique, and since every evening had
still, unremittingly, the same message for John.

I concluded this would wear away by use, and therefore resolved
to give it that chance.  One evening, however, when, being quite
alone, I was going to my loved resource, John, ere I could get
out, hurried to me, "Ma'am, the gentlemen are come up, and they
send their compliments, and they wait tea for you."

"Very well," was my answer to this rather cavalier summons, which
I did not wholly admire; and I put on my hat and cloak, when I
was called to the queen.  She asked me whether I thought Mrs.
Delany could come to her, as she wished to see her? I offered to
go instantly, and inquire.

"But don't tell her I sent you," cried the most considerate
queen, "lest that should make her come when it may hurt her: find
out how she is, before you mention me."
427

As I now knew I must return myself, at any rate, I slipped into
the tea-room before I set off.  I found there Colonel
Goldsworthy, looking quite glum, General Bud`e, Mr. Fisher, Mr. -
Fisher, his brother, and Mr. Blomberg, chaplain to the Prince of
Wales.

The moment I opened the door, General Bud`e presented Mr.
Blomberg to me, and Mr. Fisher his brother; I told them, hastily,
that I was running away to Mrs. Delany, but meant to return in a
quarter of an hour, when I should be happy to have their company,
if they could wait so long ; but if they were hurried, my man
should bring their tea.

They all turned to Colonel Goldsworthy, who, as equerry in
waiting, was considered as head of the party; but he seemed so
choked with surprise and displeasure, that he could only mutter
something too indistinct to be heard, and bowed low and
distantly.

"If Colonel Goldsworthy can command his time, ma'am," cried Mr.
Fisher, "we shall be most happy to wait yours."

General Bud6 said the same : the colonel again silently and
solemnly bowed, and I curtsied in the same manner, and burried
away.

Mrs. Delany was not well ; and I would not vex her with the
queen's kind wish for her.  I returned, and sent in, by the page
in waiting, my account : for the queen was in the concertroom,
and I could not go to her.  Neither would I seduce away Miss Port
from her duty ; I came back, therefore, alone, and was fain to
make my part as good as I was able among my beaus.

I found them all waiting.  Colonel Goldsworthy received me with
the same stately bow, and a look so glum and disconcerted, that I
instantly turned from him to meet the soft countenance of the
good Mr. Fisher, who took a chair next mine, and entered into
conversation with his usual intelligence and mildness.  General
Bud`e was chatty and well bred, and the two strangers wholly
silent.

I could not, however, but see that Colonel Goldsworthy grew less
and less pleased.  Yet what had I done ?-I had never been
commanded to devote my evenings to him, and, if excused
officially, surely there could be no private claim from either
his situation or mine.  His displeasure therefore appeared to me
so unjust, that I resolved to take not the smallest notice of it.
He never once opened his mouth, neither to me nor to any one
else.  In this strange manner we drank our tea.  When
428

it was over, he still sat dumb - and still I conversed with Mr.
Fisher and General Bud`e.

At length a prodigious hemming showed a preparation in the
colonel for a speech : it came forth with great difficulty, and
most considerable hesitation.

"I am afraid, ma'am,--I am afraid you--you--that is--that we are
intruders upon you."

"N-o," answered I, faintly, "why so?"

"I am sure, ma'am, if we are--if you think--if we take too much
liberty--I am sure I would not for the world!--I only--your
commands--nothing else--"

"Sir!" cried I, not understanding a word.

"I see, ma'am, we only intrude upon you: however, you must excuse
my just saying we would not for the world have taken such a
liberty, though very sensible of the happiness of being allowed
to come in for half an hour,--which is the best half-hour of the
whole day; but yet, if it was not for your own commands--"

"What commands, sir?"

He grew still more perplexed, and made at least a dozen speeches
to the same no purpose, before I could draw from him anything
explicit ; all of them listening silently the whole time, and
myself invariably staring.  At last, a few words escaped him more
intelligible.

"Your messages, ma'am, were what encouraged us to come."

"And pray, sir, do tell me what messages?--I am very happy to see
you, but I never sent any messages at all?"

"Indeed, ma'am!" cried he, staring in his turn; "why your
servant, little John there, came rapping at our door, at the
equerry room, before we had well swallowed our dinner, and said,
'My lady is waiting tea, sir.'"

I was quite confounded.  I assured him it was an entire
fabrication of my servant's, as I had never sent, nor even
thought of sending him, for I was going Out.

"Why to own the truth, ma'am," cried he, brightening up, "I did
really think it a little odd to send for us in that hurry, for we
got up directly from table, and said, if the lady is waiting, to
be sure we must not keep her; and then-when we came-to just peep
in, and say you were going out!"


How intolerable an impertinence in John !-it was really no wonder
the poor colonel was so glum.

Again I repeated my ignorance of this step ; and he then
429

said "Why, ma'am, he comes to us regularly every afternoon, and
says his lady is waiting; and we are very glad to come, poor
souls that we are, with no rest all the livelong day but what we
get in this good room !-but then-to come, and see ourselves only
intruders-and to find you going out, after sending for us!"

I could scarce find words to express my amazement at this
communication.  I cleared myself instantly from having any the
smallest knowledge of John's proceedings, and Colonel Goldsworthy
soon recovered all his spirits and good humour, when he was
satisfied he had not designedly been treated with such strange
and unmeaning inconsistency.  He rejoiced exceedingly that he had
spoke out, and I thanked him for his frankness, and the evening
concluded very amicably. . . .

The evening after, I invited Miss Port, determined to spend it
entirely with my beaus, in order to wholly explain away this
impertinence.  Colonel Goldsworthy now made me a thousand
apologies for having named the matter to me at all.  I assured
him I was extremely glad he had afforded me an opportunity of
clearing it.  In the course of the discussion, I mentioned the
constant summons brought me by John every afternoon.  He lifted
up his hands and eyes, and protested most solemnly he had never
sent a single one.

"I vow, ma'am," cried the colonel, "I would not have taken such a
liberty on any account; though all the comfort of my life in this
house, is one half-hour in a day spent in this room.  After all
one's labours, riding, and walking, and standing, and bowing-what
a life it is!  Well! it's honour ! that's one comfort ; it's all
honour ! royal honour !-one has the honour to stand till one has
not a foot left ; and to ride till one's stiff, and to walk till
one's ready to drop,-and then one makes one's lowest bow, d'ye
see, and blesses one's self with joy for the honour!"


                   AN EQUERRY'S DUTIES AND DISCOMFORTS.

His account of his own hardships and sufferings here, in the
discharge of his duty, is truly comic.  "How do you like it,
ma'am?" he says to me, "though it's hardly fair to ask you yet,
because you know almost nothing of the joys of this sort of life.
But wait till November and December, and then you'll get a pretty
taste of them!  Running along in these cold passages, then
bursting into rooms fit to bake you, then back
430

again into all these agreeable puffs !-Bless us ! I believe in my
heart there's wind enough in these passages to carry a man of
war! And there you'll have your share, ma'am, I promise you that!
you'll get knocked up in three days, take my word for that."

I begged him not to prognosticate so much evil for me.

"O ma'am, there's no help for it!" cried he; "you won't have the
hunting, to be sure, nor amusing yourself with wading a foot and
a-half through the dirt, by way of a little pleasant walk, as we
poor equerries do!, It's a wonder to me we outlive the first
month.  But the agreeable puffs of the passages you will have
just as completely as any of us.  Let's see, how many blasts must
you have every time you go to the queen?  First, one upon your
opening your door; then another, as you get down the three steps
from it, which are exposed to the wind from the garden door
downstairs; then a third, as you turn the corner to enter the
passage; then you come plump upon another from the hall door;
then comes another, fit to knock you down, as You turn to the
upper passage ; then, just as You turn towards the queen's room,
comes another; and last, a whiff from the king's stairs, enough
to blow you half a mile off!"

"Mere healthy breezes," I cried, and assured him I did not fear
them.

"Stay till Christmas," cried he, with a threatening air, "only
stay till then, and let's see what you'll say to them; you'll be
laid up as sure as fate! you may take my word for that.  One
thing, however, pray let me caution you about--don't go to early
prayers in November; if you do, that will completely kill you!
Oh, ma'am, you know nothing yet of all these matters! only pray,
joking apart, let me have the honour just to advise you this one
thing, or else it's all over with you, I do assure you!"

It was in vain I begged him to be more merciful in his
prophecies; he failed not, every night, to administer to me the
same pleasant anticipations.

"Why the princesses," cried he, "used to it as they are, get
regularly knocked up before this business is over; off they drop,
one by one:--first the queen deserts us; then Princess Elizabeth
is done for; then princess royal begins coughing; then Princess
Augusta gets the snuffles; and all the poor attendants, my poor
sister at their head, drop off, one after another, like so many
snuffs of candles: till at last, dwindle,
431

dwindle, dwindle--not a soul goes to the chapel but the king, the
parson, and myself; and there we three freeze it out together!"

One evening, when he had been out very late hunting with the
king, he assumed so doleful an air of weariness, that had not
Miss Port exerted her utmost powers to revive him, he would not
have uttered a word the whole night; but when once brought
forward, he gave us more entertainment than ever, by relating his
hardships.

"After all the labours," cried he, "of the chase, all the riding,
the trotting, the galloping, the leaping, the--with your favour,
ladies, I beg pardon, I was going to say a strange word, but
the--the perspiration--and--and all that--after being wet through
over head, and soused through under feet, and popped into
ditches, and jerked over gates, what lives we do lead!  Well,
it's all honour! that's my only comfort!  Well, after all this,
fagging away like mad from eight in the morning to five or six in
the afternoon, home we come, looking like so many drowned rats,
with not a dry thread about us, nor a morsel within us--sore to
the very bone, and forced to smile all the time! and then after
all this what do you think follows?--'Here, Goldsworthy,' cries
his majesty: so up I comes to him, bowing profoundly, and my hair
dripping down to my shoes; 'Goldsworthy,' cries his majesty.
'Sir,' says I, smiling agreeably, with the rheumatism just
creeping all over me ! but still, expecting something a little
comfortable, I wait patiently to know his gracious pleasure, and
then, 'Here, Goldsworthy, say !' he cries, 'will you have a
little barley water?' Barley water in such a plight as that!
Fine compensation for a wet jacket, truly!--barley water!  I
never heard of such a tiling in my life! barley water after a
whole day's hard hunting!"

"And pray did you drink it?"

"I drink it?--Drink barley water? no, no; not come to that
neither.  But there it was, sure enough!--in a jug fit for a sick
room, just such a thing as you put upon a hob in a chimney, for
some poor miserable soul that keeps his bed! just such a thing as
that!--And, 'Here, Goldsworthy,' says his majesty, 'here's the
barley water,'"

"And did the king drink it himself?"

"Yes, God bless his majesty! but I was too humble a subject to do
the same as the king!--Barley water, quoth I!--Ha! ha!--a fine
treat truly! Heaven defend me! I'm not
432

come to that, neither!--bad enough too, but not so bad as that."



                      ROYAL CAUTIONS AND CONFIDENCES.

Nov. 1.-We began this month by steadily settling ourselves at
Kew.  A very pleasant circumstance happened to me on this day, in
venturing to present the petition of an unfortunate man who had
been shipwrecked; whose petition was graciously attended to,'and
the money he solicited was granted him.  I had taken a great
interest in the poor man, from the simplicity and distress of his
narration, and took him into one of the parlours to assist him in
drawing Up his memorial.

The queen, when, with equal sweetness and humanity, she had
delivered the sum to one of her pages to give to him, said to me,
"Now, though your account of this poor man makes him seem to be a
real object, I must give you one caution : there are so many
impostors about, who will try to speak to you, that, if you are
not upon your guard, you may be robbed yourself before you can
get any help : I think, therefore, you had better never trust
yourself in a room alone with anybody you don't know."

I thanked her for her gracious counsel, and promised, for the
future, to have my man always at hand.

I was afterwards much touched with a sort of unconscious
confidence with which she relieved her mind.  She asked me my
opinion of a paper in the "Tatler," which I did not recollect;
and when she was dressed, and seated in her sitting-room, she
made me give her the book, and read to me this paper.  It is an
account of a young man of a good heart and sweet disposition, who
is allured by pleasure into a libertine life, which he pursues by
habit, but with constant remorse, and ceaseless shame and
unhappiness.  It was impossible for me to miss her object: all
the mother was in her voice while she read it, and her glistening
eyes told the application made throughout.(223)  My mind
sympathised sincerely, though my tongue did not dare allude to
her feelings.  She looked pensively down when she had finished
it, and before she broke silence, a page came to announce the
Duchess of Ancaster.

433

                      THE QUEEN TIRED OF HER GEWGAWS.

Nov. 3.-In the morning I had the honour of a conversation with
the queen, the most delightful, on her part, I had ever yet been
indulged with.  It was all upon dress, and she said so nearly
what I had just imputed to her in my little stanzas, that I could
scarce refrain producing them ; yet could not muster courage.
She told me, with the sweetest grace imaginable, how well she had
liked at first her jewels and ornaments as queen,--"But how
soon," cried she, "was that over! Believe me, Miss Burney, it is
a pleasure of a week,--a fortnight, at most,--and to return no
more!  I thought, at first, I should always choose to wear them,
but the fatigue, and trouble of putting them on, and the care
they required, and the fear of losing them,--believe me, ma'am,
in a fortnight's time I longed again for my own earlier dress,
and wished never to see them more!"

She then still more opened her opinions and feelings.  She told
me she had never, in her most juvenile years, loved dress and
shew, nor received the smallest pleasure from any thing in her
external appearance beyond neatness and comfort : yet did not
disavow that the first week or fortnight of being a queen, when
only in her seventeenth year, she thought splendour sufficiently
becoming her station to believe she should thenceforth choose
constantly to support it.  But her eyes alone were dazzled, not
her mind ; and therefore the delusion speedily vanished, and her
understanding was too strong to give it any chance of returning,


                            A HOLIDAY AT LAST.

NOV. 4.-This morning, when I attended the queen, she asked me if
I should like to go and see my father at Chesington ? and then
gave orders immediately for a chaise to be ready without delay--
"And there is no need you should hurry yourself," she added, "for
it will do perfectly well if you are back to dinner; when I
dress, I will send for Miss Planta."

I thanked her very much, and she seemed quite delighted to give
me this gratification.  "The first thing I thought of this
morning, when I woke," said she, "and when I saw the sun shining
in upon the bed, was that this would be a fine morning for Miss
Burney to go and see her father."

And soon after, to make me yet more comfortable she found
434

a deputy for my man as well as for myself, condescending to give
orders herself that another person might lay the cloth, lest I
should be hurried home on that account.

I need not tell my two dear readers how sensibly I felt her
goodness, when I acquaint them of its effect upon me ; which was
no less than to induce, to impel me to trust her with my
performance of her request.  just as she was quitting her
dressing-room, I got behind her, and suddenly blurted out--

"Your majesty's goodness to me, ma'am, makes me venture to own
that there is a command which I received some time ago, and which
I have made some attempt to execute."

She turned round with great quickness,--"The great coat?" she
cried, "is it that?"

I was glad to be so soon understood, and took it from my pocket
book--but holding it a little back, as she offered to take it.

"For your majesty alone," I cried; "I must entreat that it may
meet no other eyes, and I hope it will not be looked at when any
one else is even in sight!"

She gave me a ready promise, and took it with an alacrity and
walked off with a vivacity that assured me she would not be very
long before she examined it; though, when I added another little
request, almost a condition, that it might not be read till I was
far away, she put it into her pocket unopened, and, Wishing me a
pleasant ride, and that I might find my father well, she
proceeded towards the breakfast parlour.

My dear friends will, I know, wish to see it,-and so they shall;
though not this moment, as I have it not about me, and do not
remember it completely.(224)

435

My breakfast was short, the chaise was soon ready, and forth I
sallied for dear--once how dear!--old Chesington!  Every step of
the road brought back to my mind the first and most loved and
honoured friend of my earliest years, and I felt a melancholy
almost like my first regret for him, when I considered what joy,
what happiness I lost, in missing his congratulations on a
situation so much what he would have chosen for me--
congratulations which, flowing from a mind such as his, so wise,
so zealous, so sincere, might almost have reconciled me to it
myself--I mean even then--for now the struggle is over, and I am
content enough.

John rode on, to open the gates ; the gardener met him and I
believe surprise was never greater than he carried into the house
with my name.  Out ran dear Kitty Cooke, whose honestly
affectionate reception touched me very much,--"O,"
436

cried she, "had our best friend lived to see this day when you
came to poor old Chesington from Court!"

Her grief, ever fresh, then overflowed in a torrent and I could
hardly either comfort her, or keep down the sad regretful
recollections rising in my own memory.  O my dear Susan, with
what unmixed satisfaction, till that fatal period when I paid him
my last visit, had I ever entered those gates-where passed the
scenes of the greatest ease, gaiety, and native mirth that have
fallen to my lot!

Mrs. James Burney next, all astonishment, and our dear James
himself, all incredulity, at the report carried before me, came
out.(225)  Their hearty welcome and more pleasant surprise
recovered me from the species of consternation with which I had
approached their dwelling, and the visit, from that time, turned
out perfectly gay and happy.

My dearest father was already gone to town; but I had had much
reason to expect I should miss him, and therefore I could not be
surprised. . . .

I left them all with great reluctance: I had no time to walk in
the garden,-no heart to ascend the little mount, and see how
Norbury hills and woods looked from it!

I set out a little the sooner, to enable me to make another
visit, which I had also much at heart,-it was to our aunts at
Kingston.  I can never tell you their astonishment at sight of
me; they took me for my own ghost, I believe, at first, but they
soon put my substance to the proof, and nothing could better
answer my motives than my welcome, which I need not paint to my
Susan, who never sees them without experiencingit.  To my great
satisfaction, also, my nieces Fanny and Sophy happened to be
there at that time.

My return was just in time for my company, which I found
increased by the arrival of two more gentlemen, Mr. Fisher and
Mr. Turbulent.  Mr. Fisher had been ordered to come, that he
might read prayers the next day, Sunday.  Mr. Turbulent(226) was
summoned, I suppose, for his usual occupations; reading with the
princesses, or to the queen.  Shall I introduce to you this
gentleman such as I now think him at once? or wait to let his
character open itself to you by

437

degrees, and in the same manner that it did to me?  So capital a
part as you will find him destined to play, hereafter, in my
concerns, I mean, sooner or later, to the best of my power, to
make you fully acquainted with him. . . .


He took his seat next mine at the table, and assisted me, while
Mr. Fisher sat as chaplain at the bottom.  The dinner went off
extremely well, though from no help of mine. . . .  The three men
and the three females were all intimately acquainted with one
another, and the conversation, altogether, was equal, open, and
agreeable.

You may a little judge of this, when I tell you a short speech
that escaped Miss Planta.  Mr. Turbulent said he must go early to
town the next morning, and added, he should call to see Mrs.
Schwellenberg, by order of the queen, "Now for heaven's sake, Mr.
Turbulent," she cried, eagerly, "don't you begin talking to her
of how comfortable we are here !-it will bring her back
directly!"

This was said in a half whisper; and I hope no one else heard it.
I leave you, my dear friends, to your own comments.


                             TEA Room GAMBOLS.

Mr. and Mrs. Smelt and Mrs. Delany came to us at teatime.  Then,
and in their society, I grew more easy and disengaged.

The sweet little Princess Amelia, who had promised me a visit,
came during tea, brought by Mrs. Cheveley.  I left every body to
play with her, and Mr. Smelt joined in our gambols.  We pretended
to put her in a phaeton, and to drive about and make visits with
her.  She entered into the scheme with great spirit and delight,
and we waited upon Mrs. Delany and Mrs. Smelt alternately.
Children are never tired of playing at being women; and women
there are who are never tired, in return, of playing at being
children!

In the midst of this frolicking, which at times was rather noisy,
by Mr. Smelt's choosing to represent a restive horse, the king
entered! We all stopped short, guests, hosts, and horses ; and
all, with equal celerity, retreated, making the usual circle for
his majesty to move in.  The little princess bore this
interruption to her sport only while surprised into quiet by the
general respect inspired by the king.  The instant that wore off,
she grew extremely im-
438

patient for the renewal of our gambols, and distressed me most
ridiculously by her innocent appeals.

"Miss Burney!--come!--why don't you play?--Come, Miss Burney, I
say, play with me!--come into the phaeton again!--why don't you,
Miss Burney?"

After a thousand vain efforts to quiet her by signs, I was forced
to whisper her that I really could play no longer.

" But why? why, Miss Burney?--do! do come and play with me!--You
must, Miss Burney!"

This petition growing still more and more urgent, I was obliged
to declare my reason, in hopes of appeasing her, as she kept
pulling me by the hand and gown, so entirely with all her little
strength, that I had the greatest difficulty to save myselt from
being suddenly jerked into the middle of the room: at length,
therefore, I whispered, "We shall disturb the king, ma'am!"

This was enough ; she flew instantly to his majesty, who was in
earnest discourse with Mr. Smelt, and called out, "Papa, go!"

"What?" cried the king.

"Go! papa,--you must go!" repeated she eagerly.

The king took her up in his arms, and began kissing and playing
with her; she strove with all her might to disengage herself,
calling aloud "Miss Burney! Miss Burney! take me--come, I say,
Miss Burney!--O Miss Burney, come!"

You may imagine what a general smile went round the room at this
appeal: the king took not any notice of it, but set her down, and
went on with his discourse.  She was not, however, a moment quiet
till he retired: and then we renewed our diversions, which lasted
to her bed-time.


                            A DREADFUL MISHAP.

Nov. 6.-This morning happened my first disgrace of being too late
for the queen-this noon, rather; for in a morning 'tis a disaster
that has never arrived to this moment.

The affair thus came to pass.  I walked for some time early in
Kew gardens, and then called upon Mrs. Smelt.  I there heard that
the king and queen were gone, privately, to Windsor, to the Lodge
: probably for some papers they could not intrust with a
messenger.  Mr. Smelt, therefore, proposed taking this
opportunity of shewing me Richmond gardens, offering to be my
security that I should have full time.  I
439

accepted the proposal with pleasure, and we set out upon our
expedition.  Our talk was almost all of the queen.  Mr. Smelt
wishes me to draw up her character.  I owned to him that should
it appear to me, on nearer and closer inspection, what it seemed
to me then, the task could not be an unpleasant one.

He saw me safe to the Lodge, and there took his leave : and I was
going leisurely upstairs, when I met the Princess Amelia and Mrs.
Cheveley; and while I was playing with the little princess, Mrs.
Cheveley announced to me that the queen had been returned some
time, and that I had been sent for immediately.

Thunderstruck at this intelligence, I hastened to her
dressing-room; when I opened the door, I saw she was having her
hair dressed.  To add to my confusion, the Princess Augusta, Lady
Effingham, and Lady Frances Howard were all in the room.  I stood
still at the door, not knowing whether to advance, or wait a new
summons.  In what a new situation did I feel myself!-and how did
I long to give way to my first impulse, and run back to my own
room.

In a minute or two, the queen not a little drily said, "Where
have you been, Miss Burney?"

I told her my tale,-that hearing she was gone to Windsor, I had
been walking in Richmond gardens with Mr. Smelt.  She said no
more, and I stood behind her chair.  The princess and two ladies
were seated.

What republican feelings were rising in my breast, till she
softened them down again, when presently, in a voice changed from
that dryness which had wholly disconcerted me, to its natural
tone, she condescended to ask me to look at Lady Frances Howard's
gown, and see if it was not very pretty.

This made a dutiful subject of me again in a moment.  Yet I felt
a discomposure all day, that determined me upon using the
severest caution to avoid such a surprise for the future.  The
Windsor journey having been merely upon business, had been more
brief than was believed possible.

When I left the queen, I was told that Mrs. Delany was waiting
for me in the parlour.  What a pleasure and relief to me to run
to that dear lady, and relate to her my mischance, and its
circumstances! Mr. Smelt soon joined us there; he was shocked at
the accident ; and I saw strongly by his manner how much more
seriously such a matter was regarded, than any one, unused to the
inside of a Court, could possibly imagine.
440

                            "IS IT PERMITTED?"

Nov. 8.-This was the birth-day of the Princess Augusta, now
eighteen.  I could not resist this opportunity of presenting her
one of my fairings, though I had some little fear she might think
herself past the age for receiving birth-day gifts, except from
the royal family: however they had arrived so seemingly `a
propos, and had been so much approved by the queen, that I
determined to make the attempt.  I took one of the work-boxes,
and wrote with a pencil, round the middle ornament, "Est-il
permis?"--and then I sent for Miss Makentomb, the princess's
wardrobe woman, and begged her to place the box upon her royal
highness's table.

At the queen's dressing-time, as I opened the door, her majesty
said, " "O, here she is!--Est-il permis?--Come, come in to
Augusta!" and made me follow her into the next room, the door of
which was open, where the princess was seated at a writing-desk,
probably answering some congratulatory letters.

Immediately, in a manner the most pleasing, she thanked me for
the little cadeau, saying, "Only one thing I must beg, that you
will write the motto with a pen."

The queen seconded this motion, smilingly repeating "Est-il
permis?"

And afterwards, in the evening, the Princess Augusta came
to the parlour, to fetch Mrs. Delany and Mrs. Smelt, and again
said, "Now, will you, Miss Burney--will you write that for me
with a pen?"


                      THE PLUMP PROVOST AND His LADY.

Nov. 23.-In the evening I had a large party of new acquaintance;
the provost of Eton, Dr, Roberts, his lady, Mr. Dewes, Miss Port,
the Duke of Montagu, General Bud`e, Colonel Goldsworthy, and
Madame de la Fite.  The party had the royal sanction, I need not
tell you.  The king and queen are always well disposed to shew
civility to the people of Eton and Windsor, and were therefore
even pleased at the visit.

The provost is very fat, with a large paunch and gouty legs.  He
is good-humoured, loquacious, gay, civil, and parading.  I am
told, nevertheless, he is a poet, and a very good one.  This,
indeed, appears not, neither in a person such as I have
described, nor in manners such as have drawn from me the
character just given.
441

Mrs. Roberts is a fine woman, though no longer very young; she is
his second wife, and very kind to all his family.  She seems
good-natured and sensible.

The evening turned out very well: they were so delighted with
making a visit under the royal roof, that everything that passed
pleased them: and the sight of that disposition helped me to a
little more spirit than usual in receiving them.

The king came into the room to fetch Mrs. Delany, and looked much
disappointed at missing her; nevertheless, he came forward, and
entered into conversation with the provost, upon Eton, the
present state of the school, and all that belongs to its
establishment.  His majestytakes a great interest in the welfare
and prosperity of that seminary.

The provost was enchanted by this opportunity of a long and
private conference, and his lady was in raptures in witnessing
it.  She concluded, from that time, that the door would never
open, but for the entrance of some of the royal family; and when
the equerries came, she whispered me, " Who are they ? " And
again, on the appearance of a star on the Duke of Montagu., she
said, "Who can that be, Miss Burney?"


THE EQUERRIES VIOLATE THE RULES.

Dec. 10.-Mrs. Delany, upon her recovery,(227) had invited the
general and colonel to come to tea any evening.  For them to be
absent from the Lodge was contrary to all known rules ; but the
colonel vowed he would let the matter be tried, and take its
course.  Mrs. Delany hoped by this means to bring the colonel
into better humour with my desertion of the teatable, and to
reconcile him to an innovation of which he then must become a
partaker.

On the day when this grand experiment was to be made, that we
might not seem all to have eloped clandestinely, in case of
inquiry, I previously made known to the queen my own intention,
and had her permission for my visit.  But the gentlemen,
determining to build upon the chance of returning before they
were missed, gave no notice of their scheme, but followed me to
Mrs. Delany's as soon as they quitted their own table. I had sent
to speak with General Bud`e in the morning, and then arranged the
party: he proposed that the colonel and

442

himself should esquire me, but I did not dare march forth in such
bold defiance ; I told him, therefore, I must go in a chair.

Mrs. Delany received us with her usual sweetness.  We then began
amusing ourselves with surmises of the manner in which we should
all be missed, if our rooms were visited in our absence ; and the
colonel, in particular, drew several scenes, highly diverting, of
what he supposed would pass,-of the king's surprise and
incredulity, of the hunting up and down of the house in search of
him, and of the orders issued throughout the house to examine to
what bed-post he had hanged himself,-for nothing less than such
an act of desperation could give courage to an equerry to be
absent without leave!

Further conjectures were still starting, and all were engaged in
aiding them and enjoying them, when suddenly a violent knocking
at the door was followed by the most unexpected entrance of the
queen and the Princess Amelia!

Universal was the start, and most instantaneous and solemn the
silence !  I felt almost guilty, though not for myself: my own
invariable method of avowing all my proceedings saved me from the
smallest embarrassment on my own account in this meeting; but I
was ashamed to appear the leader in a walk so new as that of
leaving the Lodge in an evening, and to have induced any others
to follow my example.  The queen looked extremely surprised, but
not at me, whom she knew she should encounter; and the two
gentlemen hardly could settle whether to make humble
explanations, or frank ridicule, of the situation in which they
were caught.  The queen, however, immediately put them at their
ease, speaking to them with marked civility, and evidently
desirous not to mar what she found intended as a private frolic,
by any fears of her disapprobation.

She did not stay long, and they soon followed her to the Lodge.
I also returned, and at night the queen owned to me, but very
good-humouredly, that she had never been more astonished than at
sight of the equerries that evening, and asked me how it came to
pass.

"Mrs. Delany, ma'am," I answered, "as she had taken away their
tea-maker, thought she could do no less than offer them tea for
once at her own table."

And here the matter rested.  But the enterprise has never been
repeated.     .
443

                      MR. TURBULENT ON COURT ROUTINE.

Dec. 13.-Our dinner was as usual, the Smelts, Messrs. de Luc and
Turbulent, and Miss Planta; and the last only was gone when Mr.
and Mrs. Hayes arrived.  Mrs. Hayes is a really pretty as well as
a pretty sort of woman,(228) and modest, well-bred, and sensible
- and the afternoon, with the assistance of Mr. Smelt, did very
well.  They went early home, and both the Smelts were called to
the queen's rooms; M. de Luc said he must retire to write down "
some thoughts upon an experiment in his head," and only Mr.
Turbulent remained.

I found the partner of my confinement a man of uncommon capacity,
but something there was hung about him, or hung about me, that
prevented my assimilating-with him in anything.  I saw he was
endowed with great powers of agreeability; but I thought him
obtrusive ; and that alone is a drawback to all merit, that I
know not how to pass over.  He spoke his opinions with great
openness, equally upon people and things ; but it seemed rather
from carelessness than confidence, and I 'know him too little to
feel obliged in his trust.

The talk was chiefly upon mere general subjects, till by 'some
accident the approaching birth-day of the queen was mentioned.
He then inquired of me how I should like the state business of
that day?

I told him I knew nothing of what I had to expect from it.  He
undertook readily to inform me.  He said I was to be sumptuously
arrayed, to sit in one of the best rooms at St. James's, and
there to receive all the ladies of the queen in particular, and
to do the honours to all the gentlemen also, belonging to the
establishment.

I laughed, and told him he had painted to me a scene of happiness
peculiarly adapted to my taste!

He did not concern himself to examine whether or not I was
serious, but said he supposed, of course, the dignity of such a
matter of state could not be disagreeable to me, and added, he
should take the liberty to wish me joy of the day, among the
rest, when it arrived, and to see me in my glory.  After this he
said, "You have now nearly seen the whole of everything that will
come before you: in a very short time you will have passed six
months here, and then you will know your life for as many, and
twice and thrice as many years.

444

You will have seen everybody and everything, and the same round
will still be the same, year after year, without intermission or
alteration."


                     AN EQUERRY ON THE COURT CONCERT.

Dec. 26-Colonel Goldsworthy ran on, till General Bud`e reminded
him it was time they should appear in the concertroom.

"Ay," cried he, reluctantly, "now for the fiddlers! There I go,
plant myself against the side of the chimney, stand first on one
foot, then on the other, hear over and over again all that fine
squeaking, and then fall fast asleep, and escape by mere miracle
from flouncing down plump in all their faces."

"What would the queen say if you did that?"

"O, ma'am, the queen would know nothing of the matter; she'd only
suppose it some old double bass that tumbled."

" Why, could not she see what it was?"

"O no! ma'am, we are never in the room with the queen! that's the
drawing-room, beyond, where the queen sits; we go no farther than
the fiddling-room.  As to the queen, we don't see her week after
week sometimes.  The king, indeed, comes there to us, between
whiles, though that's all as it happens, now Price is gone.  He
used to play at backgammon with Price."

"Then what do you do there?"

"Just what I tell you--nothing at all, but stand as furniture.
But the worst is, sometimes, when my poor eye-peepers are not
quite closed, I look to the music-books to see what's coming; and
there I read 'Chorus of Virgins:' so then, when they begin, I
look about me.  A chorus of virgins, indeed! why, there's nothing
but ten or a dozen fiddlers! not a soul beside! it's as true as
I'm alive ! So then, when we've stood supporting the
chimney-piece about two hours, why then, if I'm not called upon,
I shuffle back out of the room, make a profound bow to the
harpsichord, and I'm off."


                      DR. HERSCHFL's LARGE TELESCOPE.

Dec. 3o.-This morning my dear father carried me to Dr. Herschel.
That great and very extraordinary man received us with almost
open arms, He is very fond of my father, who is one of the
Council of the Royal Society this year, as well as
445

himself, and he has much invited me when we have met at the Lodge
or at Mr. de Luc's.

At this time of day there was nothing to see but his instruments:
those, however, are curiosities sufficient.  His immense new
telescope, the largest ever constructed, will still, I fear,
require a year or two more for finishing, but I hope it will then
reward his labour and ingenuity by the new views of the heavenly
bodies, and their motions, which he flatters himself will be
procured by it.  Already, with that he has now in use, he has
discovered fifteen hundred universes !  How many more he can find
who can conjecture? The moon, too, which seems his favourite
object, has already afforded him two volcanoes ; and his own
planet, the Georgium sidus,(229) has now shewn two satellites.
>From such a man what may not astronomy expect, when an instrument
superior in magnitude to any ever yet made, and constructed
wholly by himself or under his own eye, is the vehicle of his
observation?

I wished very much to have seen his sister, whose knowledge in
his own science is so extraordinary, and who herself was the
first discoverer of the last comet ; but she had been up all
night, and was then in bed.

Mr. Smelt joined us by appointment ; and the Bishop of Worcester
came afterwards, with Dr. Douglas, to whom I was then introduced.
He is the famous editor, who has published and revised and
corrected so many works: among them the last voyage round the
world.

By the invitation of Mr.  Herschel, I now took a walk which will
sound to you rather strange : it was through his telescope and it
held me quite upright, and without the least inconvenience ; so
would it have done had I been dressed in feathers and a bell
hoop--such is its circumference.  Mr. Smelt led the way, walking
also upright ; and my father followed.  After we were gone, the
bishop and Dr. Douglas were tempted, for its oddity, to make the
same promenade.


              ILLNESS, AND SOME REFLECTIONS IT GAVE RISE TO.

Wednesday, Jan. 10, 1787.-This morning, when I was hurrying to
the queen, I met Mr. Fairly, who said he was waiting to see me.
Very melancholy he looked-very much changed from what I had seen
him.  His lady, to whom he is much attached,

446

is suffering death by inches, from the most painful of all
complaints, a cancer.  His eldest son, who seems about twelve
years old, was with him.  He was going, he said, to place him at
Eton.

The day following I was taken very ill myself; a'bilious fever,
long lurking, suddenly seized me, and a rheumatism in my head at
the same time.  I was forced to send to Mr. Battiscombe for
advice, and to Miss Planta to officiate for me at night with the
queen.

Early the next morning Miss Planta came to me from the queen, to
desire I would not be uneasy in missing my attendance, and that I
would think of nothing but how to take care of myself.  This,
however, was not all, for soon after she came herself, not only
to my room, but to my bedside, and, after many enquiries, desired
me to say sincerely what I should do if I had been so attacked at
home.

A blister, I said, was all I could devise; and I had one
accordingly, which cured the head, and set me at ease.  But the
fever had been long gathering, and would not so rapidly be
dismissed.  I kept my bed this day and the next.  The third day I
was sufficiently better to quit my bed and bedroom ; and then I
had not only another visit from the queen, but also from the two
eldest princesses.

Tuesday, Jan. 16-Was the day appointed for removing to town for
the winter; from which time we were only to come to Windsor for
an occasional day or two every week.

I received a visit, just before I set out, from the king.  He
came in alone, and made most gracious enquiries into my health,
and whether I was sufficiently recovered for the journey.

The four days of my confinement, from the fever after the pain,
were days of meditation the most useful: I reflected upon all my
mental sufferings in the last year; their cause seemed inadequate
to their poignancy.  In the hour of sickness and confinement, the
world, in losing its attractions, forfeits its regrets :-a new
train of thinking, a new set of ideas, took possession of all my
faculties ; a steady plan, calm, yet no longer sad, deliberately
formed itself in my mind; my affliction was already subsided; I
now banished, also, discontent.  I found myself as well off, upon
reflection, as I could possibly merit, and better, by comparison,
than most of those around me.  The beloved friends of my own
heart
447

had joined me unalterably, inviolably to theirs --who, in number,
who, in kindness, has more?

Now, therefore, I took shame to myself, and resolved to be And my
success has shown me how far less chimerical than it appears is
such a resolution.  To be patient under two disappointments now
no longer recent;--to relinquish, without repining, frequent
intercourse with those I love;--to settle myself in my monastery,
without one idea of ever quitting it; to study for the
approbation of my lady abbess, and make it a principal source of
content, as well as spring of action; -and to associate more
cheerily with my surrounding nuns and monks;--these were the
articles which were to support my resolution.

I thank God I can tell my dearest friends I have observed them
all; and, from the date of this illness to the time in which I am
now drawing out my memorandums, I can safely affirm I know not
that I have made one break with myself in a single promise here
projected.

And now, I thank God, the task is at an end;-what I began from
principle, and pursued from resolution, is now a mere natural
conduct.  My destiny is fixed, and my mind is at ease; nay, I
even think, upon the whole, that my lot Is, altogether, the best
that can betide me, except for one flaw in its very vitals, which
subjects me at times, to a tyranny wholly subversive of all power
of tranquillity.

(213) Dr. Joseph Warton, author of the "Essay on the Genius and
Writings of Pope."  He was headmaster of Winchester school-ED.

(214) Jacob Bryant, the distinguished classical scholar and
author; born 1715; died 1804.  His principal work was "A New
System or an Analysis of Ancient Mythology," published in 1774.
During the last part of his life he resided at Cypenham, in
Farnham Royal, near Windsor.  One of Bryant's friends said of him
that "he was a very good scholar, and knew all things up to Noah,
but not a single thing in the world beyond the Deluge!"-ED.

(215) Aim`e Argand, inventor of the argand lamp.-ED.

         (216)  Madame de Genlis was governess to the children of
the Duke D'Orl`eans (Philippe `egalit`e), and, there is no doubt,
his mistress.  The beautiful Pamela, who married Lord Edward
Fitzgerald, was generally supposed to be her daughter by the
duke, but this appears to be questionable.-ED.

(217)  William Herschel, the famous astronomer.  He was the son
of a German musician, and in early life followed his father's
profession, which he afterwards abandoned for the study of
astronomy.  He received much encouragement from George  III., was
knighted in 1816, and died at Slough, near Windsor, in 1822.  His
monster telescope, mentioned in the text, was completed in 1787,
and was forty feet in length.-ED.

(218) Maria Sophie de la Roche was a German authoress of
sentimental novels, of some distinction in her day, but now
chiefly remembered as the friend of Wieland and Goethe.  The
history of the attachment between her andWieland is very pretty,
very idyllic, and very German.  Sophie was born in 1731, and the
idyll commenced when she was nineteen, and Wieland only seventeen
years old.  it lasted some time, too, for a passion so very
tender and tearful; but the fate;, and, more particularly, the
parents, were unpropitious, and after about three years it came
to an end, the heart-broken Sophie consoling herself by marrying
M. de la Roche shortly afterwards.  Her friendship with Wieland,
however was maintained to the end of her days, he editing the
first and last productions of her pen--the "History of Fr`aulein
von Sternheim," published 1771, and "Melusinens Sommerabende,"
18o6.  Madame de la Roche died in 1807-ED.

(219)  Madame de la Fite had, however, translated her friend's
"History of Fr`aulein von Sternheim" into French, and the
translation had been published in 1773.-ED.

(220) "Clelia" and "Cassandra" were celebrated heroic romances of
the seventeenth century, the former (in ten volumes) written by
Mdlle Scud`eri, the latter by the Sieur de la Calprende.  One of
the most constant and tiresome characteristics of the heroes and
heroines of the romances of this school, is the readiness with
which they seize every opportunity of recounting, or causing
their confidential attendants to recount, their adventures,
usually with the utmost minuteness of detail-ED.

(221) See P. 434.-ED.

(222) Mrs. Schwellenberg found her health better in London, and
was prolonging her stay there in consequence. -ED,

(223) The reader will scarcely need to be told that allusion is
made here to the Prince of Wales, afterwards George 1V.-ED.

(224) It is hardly worth remembering, except for Fanny's sake;
however, it has the merit of brevity, and here it is.

                             "THE GREAT COAT.

"Thrice honour'd Robe! couldst thou espy
The form that deigns to show thy worth;
Hear the mild voice, view the arch eye,
That call thy panegyric forth;

"Wouldst thou not swell with vain delight?
With proud expansion sail along?
And deem thyself more grand and bright
Than aught that lives in ancient song,

"Than Venus' cestus, Dian's crest,
Minerva's helmet, fierce and bold,
Or all of emblem gay that dress'd
Capricious goddesses of old?
"Thee higher honours yet await:-
Haste, then, thy triumphs quick prepare,
Thy trophies spread in haughty state,
Sweep o'ei the earth, and scoff the air.

"Ah no!--retract!--retreat!--oh stay!
Learn, wiser, whence so well thou'st sped;
She whose behest produced this lay
By no false colours is misled.

"Suffice it for the buskin'd race
Plaudits by pomp and shew to win;
Those seek simplicity and grace
Whose dignity is from within.

"The cares, or joys, she soars above
That to the toilette's duties cleave;
Far other cares her bosom move,
Far other joys those cares  relieve.

"The garb of state she inly scorn'd,
Glad from its trappings to be freed,
She saw thee humble, unadorn'd,
Quick of attire,--a child of speed.

"Still, then, thrice honour'd Robe! retain
Thy modest guise, thy decent ease;
Nor let thy favour prove thy bane
By turning from its fostering breeze.

"She views thee with a mental eye,
And from thee draws this moral end:--
Since hours are register'd on high,
The friend of Time is Virtue's friend."

For this precious production Fanny received quite as much as it
was worth,--the thanks of the queen, who added, "Indeed it is
very pretty--only! I don't deserve it." -ED.

(225) Captain James Burney had married, on the 6th of September,
1785, Miss Sally Payne, daughter of Mr. Thomas Payne,
bookseller.-ED.

(226) "Mr. Turbulent" is the name given in the "Diary" to the
Rev. Charles de Guiffardiere, a French Protestant minister, who
filled the office of French reader to the queen and
princesses.-ED.

(227) Mrs. Delany had been for a short time indisposed.-ED.

(228) The queen had spoken of Mrs. Hayes as a "very pretty kind
of woman," and desired Fanny to invite her to tea.-ED.

(229) Herschel had discovered this planet in 1781, and named it
in honour of the king.-ED.

                              END OF VOL. 1.













This eBook was produced by Marjorie Fulton.



                           THE DIARY AND LETTERS
                                    OF
                              MADAME D'ARBLAY
                             (FRANCES BURNEY.)

                         WITH NOTES BY W. C. WARD,
                  AND PREFACED BY LORD MACAULAY'S ESSAY.

                             IN THREE VOLUMES.

                                  VOL. 2.
                               (1787-1792.)


            WITH AN ENGRAVING OF GEORGE III., QUEEN CHARLOTTE, 
                            AND THEIR FAMILY. 


              LONDON: VIZETELLY & CO., 16, HENRIETTA STREET,
                              COVENT GARDEN.
                                   1891.

                PRINTED BY J. S. VIRTUE & COMPANY, LONDON,
                                CITY ROAD.





10. (1787) COURT DUTIES AT ST. JAMES'S AND WINDSOR --9-48         

The Queen's Birthday Drawing Room--A Serious Dilemma--Counsels of
a Court Official--Mr. Turbulent's Anxiety to Introduce Mr.
Wellbred--Colonel Wellbred is received at Tea--Eccentric Mr.
Bryant--Mr. Turbulent in a New Character--Bantering a Princess-
-Mr. Turbulent meets with a Rebuff--A Surprise at the Play--The
King's Birthday--The Equerries: Colonel Manners--The Duchess de
Polignac at Windsor--Colonel Manners' Musical Accomplishments-
-Mrs. Schwellenberg's "Lump of Leather"--Mrs. Schwellenberg's
Frogs--Mr. Turbulent's Antics.                                    

11 (1787-8) COURT DUTIES: SOME VARIATIONS IN THEIR ROUTINE--49-85 

 Meeting of the two Princes--Bunbury, the Caricaturist--Mrs.
Siddons proves disappointing on near acquaintance--Mr. Fairly's
Bereavement--Troublesome Mr. Turbulent--A Conceited Parson--Mr.
Turbulent becomes a Nuisance--Dr. Herschel and his Sister--Gay
and Entertaining Mr. Bunbury--The Prince of Wales at Windsor
again--False Rumours of Miss Burney's Resignation--Tyrannical
Mrs. Schwellenberg--Mrs. Schwellenberg's Capriciousness--New
Year's Day--Chatty Mr. Bryant again--Dr. Johnson's Letters to
Mrs. Thrale discussed--A Pair of Paragons--Mr. Turbulent's Self
Condemnation--Miss Burney among her Old Friends--Some Trivial
Court Incidents.                                                  

12 (1788) THE TRIAL OF WARREN HASTINGS--86-153                  

Westminster Hall at the opening of the Hastings Trial--Warren
Hastings appears at the Bar--The Lord Chancellor's Speech--The
Reading of the Charges commenced--An Old Acquaintance--William
Windham, Esq., M.P.--Windham inveighs against Warren Hastings-
-Miss Burney Battles for the Accused--A Wearied M.P.--Mr.
Crutchley reappears--Mr. Windham discusses the Impeachment-
-Windham affects to commiserate Hastings--Miss Burney is again
present at Hastings's Trial--Burke's Speech in support of the
Charges--Further Conversation with Mr. Windham--Miss Fuzilier
likely to become Mrs. Fairly--The Hastings Trial again: Mr. Fox
in a Rage--Mrs. Crewe, Mr. Burke and Mr. Windham--Miss Burney's
Unbiassed Sentiments--Burke and Sheridan meet with Cold
Receptions--At Windsor again--Death of Mrs. Delany--The           

page vi                                                           

Hastings Trial and Mr. Windham again--"The Queen is so kind"--
Personal Resemblance between Windham and Hastings--Death of Young
Lady Mulgrave--Again at Windsor--Another Meeting with Mr.
Crutchley--Mr. Turbulent's troublesome Pleasantries--Colonel
Fairly and Second Attachments.                                    

13. (1788) ROYAL VISIT TO CHELTENHAM--154--219                    

The Royal Party and their Suite--Loyalty not Damped by the Rain-
-Arrival at Fauconberg Hall--The Tea-Table Difficulty--A
t`ete-`a-t`ete wit" Colonel Fairly--The King's
Gentlemen and the Queen's Ladies--Royalty Crowded at Fauconberg
Hall--At the wells--Conversation and Flirtation with Colonel
Fairly--Miss Burney meets an old Friend--Colonel Fairly again--A
Visit to miss Palmer--"Original Love Letters"--The Founder of
Sunday Schools criticised--On the Walks--An Unexpected Visitor--
Courts and Court Life--The Vindictive Baretti--speculations upon
Colonel Fairly's Re-marrying--Colonel Fairly again presents
Himself--The Colonel and the "Original Love Letters"--The Gout
and the Love Letters again--A Dinner with Colonel Fairly and Miss
Planta--Royal Concern for the Colonel's Gout--young Republicans
Converted--The Princes' Animal Spirits--The Duke of York: Royal
Visit to the Theatre--An uncourtly visitor--Mr. Fairly reads
"Akenside" to Miss Burney--The Doctor's Embarrassment--From Grave
to Gay--A Visit to Worcester--The Queen and Mr. Fairly--Mr.
Fairly Moralizes--Major Price is tired of Retirement--The Return
to Windsor--At Windsor again: The Canon and Mrs. Schwellenberg--
Compliments from a famous Foreign Astronomer--The Prince eyes
miss Burney curiously--Colonel manners's Beating--mr. Fairly is
Discussed by his Brother Equerries--Baron Trenck: Mr. Turbulent's
Raillery--Amiable Mrs. Schwellenberg again--A Royal Joke--Colonel
Goldsworthy's Breach of Etiquette--Illness of Mrs. Schwellenberg-
-General Grenville's Regiment at Drill.                           

14. (1788-9) THE KING'S ILLNESS--220-299                          

Uncertain State of the King's Health--The King complains 
of Want of Sleep--Distress of the Queen--First Outburst of the
King's Delirium--An Anxious Night--The King's Delirious
Condition-The King refuses to see Dr. Warren--The Queen's anxiety
to hear Dr. Warren's opinion--The Queen removes to more distant
Apartments--A Visit from Mr. Fairly--The King's Night Watchers--A
Change in Miss Burney's Duties--Mr. Fairly Succeeds in Soothing
the King--New Arrangements--The Princess Augusta's Birthday--
Strange Behaviour of the First Gentleman in Europe--Stringent New
Regulations--Mrs. Schwellenberg is back again--Public Prayers for
the King decided upon--Sir Lucas Pepys On the King's Condition-
Further Changes at the Lodge--Mr. Fairly and the Learned Ladies--
Reports on the King's Condition--Mr. Fairly thinks the King       

Page vii                                                          

needs Stricter Management--Mr. Fairly wants a Change--Removal of
the King to Kew determined upon--A Privy Council held--The
Removal to Kew--A Mysterious Visitor--The King's Arrival--The
Arrangements at Kew Palace--A Regency hinted at--Mr. Fairly's
Kind Offices--Mrs. Schwellenberg's Parlour--A new Physician
Summoned--Mrs. Schwellenberg's Opinion of Mr. Fairly--The King's
varying Condition--Dr. Willis and his Son--Learning in Women--The
Queen and Mr. Fairly's Visits-A Melancholy Birthday--Mr. Fairly
on Fans--Mr. Fairly continues his Visits: the Queen again Remarks
upon them--The Search for Mr. Fairly--Miss Burney's Alarm on
being chased by the King--A Royal Salute and Royal Confidences--
Curiosity regarding Miss Burney's meeting with the King--The
Regency Bill--Infinitely Licentious!--Miss Burney is taxed with
Visiting Gentlemen--Improvement in the King's Health--Mr. Fairly
and Mr. Windham--The King continues to improve--The King's Health
is completely Restored.                                           

15. (1789) THE KING'S RECOVERY: ROYAL VISIT TO WEYMOUTH--300-333  

 The King's Reappearance--An Airing and its Consequences--
Illuminations on the King's Recovery--Mr. Fairly on Miss Burney's
Duties--A Visit from Miss Fuzilier--A Command from Her Majesty-
-Colonel Manners mystifies Mrs. Schwellenberg--The Sailor
Prince--Loyal Reception of the King in the New Forest--The Royal
journey to Weymouth--Welcome to Weymouth--The Royal Plunge with
Musical honours--"You must Kneel, Sir!"--Royal doings in and
about Weymouth--A Patient Audience--A Fatiguing but Pleasant
Day--Lulworth Castle--The Royal Party at the Assembly Rooms--A
journey to Exeter and Saltram--May "One" come in?--An Excursion
to Plymouth Dockyard--A Visit to a Seventy-four--A Day at Mount
Edgecumbe--Mr. Fairly on a Court Life--A Brief Sojourn at
Longleat--Tottenham Court: Return to Windsor.                     

16. (1789-90) MR. FAIRLY'S MARRIAGE: THE HASTINGS TRIAL--334-365  

Rumours of Mr. Fairly's impending Marriage--A Royal Visit to the
Theatre: jammed in the Crowd--In the Manager's Box--Mr. Fairly's
Marriage imminent--Court Duties discussed--Mr. Fairly's Strange
Wedding--Renewal of the Hastings Trial: A Political Impromptu--An
Illbred Earl of Chesterfield--Miss Burney in a New Capacity--The
long-forgotten Tragedy: Miss Burnei again as Reader--Colonel
Manners in his Senatorial Capacity--A Conversation with Mr.
Windham at the Hastings Trial--A Glimpse of Mrs. Piozzi--Captain
Burney wants a Ship to go to Court--Captain Burney and Mr.
Windham--Mr. Windham speaks on a Legal Point--An Emphatic
Peroration-An Aptitude for Logic and for Greek--More Talk with
Mr. Windham.                                                      


Page viii                                                         

17. (1790-1) MISS BURNEY RESIGNS HER PLACE AT COURT--366-409      

A Melancholy Confession--Captain Burney's Laconic Letter and
Interview--Burke's Speech on the French Revolution--An Awkward
Meeting--A New Visit from Mrs. Fairly--One Tragedy Finished and
Another Commenced--Miss Burney's Resignation Memorial--Mr.
Windham Intervenes--An Amusing Interview with Mr. Boswell--Ill,
Unsettled, and Unhappy--A Medical Opinion on Miss Burney's
Condition--Miss Burney breaks the Matter to the Queen--The
Memorial and Explanatory Note--The Keeper of the Robes'
Consternation--Leave of Absence is Suggested--A Royal Gift to the
Master of the Horse--Conferences with the Queen--Miss Burney
determines on Seclusion--The Hastings Trial Resumed: The Accused
makes his Defence--Mr. Windham is Congratulated on his Silence--
Miss Burney makes her Report--Prince William insists on the
King's Health being Drunk--The Queen's Health--The Procession to
the Ball-room: Absence of the Princes--Boswell's Life of
johnson--The Close of Miss Burney's Court Duties--Miss Burney's
Successor: A Pension from the Queen--Leavetakings--Farewell to
Kew--The Final Parting.                                           

18. (1791-2) REGAINED LIBERTY--410-468                            

Released from Duty--A Western journey: Farnham Castle--A Party of
French Fugitives--Winchester Cathedral--Stonehenge, Wilton, and
Milton Abbey--Lyme and Sidmouth--Sidmouth Loyalty--Powderham
Castle and Collumpton Church--Glastonbury Abbey--Wells
Cathedral--Bath Revisited--A Visit from Lady Spencer--Bath Sunday
Schools--Georgiana, Duchess of Devonshire--Bishop Percy--The
Duchess of Devonshire again--Dr. Burney's Conversation with Mr.
Burke: Remarks by Miss Burney--Literary Recreation--Sir Joshua
Reynoldsls Blindness--Among Old Friends--A Summons from the
Queen--Mr. Hastings's Defence--Diverse Views--Mr. Law's Speech
Discussed--Mr. Windham on the French National Assembly--"A
Barbarous Business!"--Death of Sir Joshua Reynolds--Mr. Windham
twitted on his Lack of Compassion--A Point of Ceremonial--Mrs.
Schwellenberg and Mlle. Jacobi--A Long Talk with the King and
Queen--Madame de Genlis: a Woeful Change--The Weeping Beauty
Again--Madame de la Fite and Mrs. Hastings--The Impetuous Orator-
-Mimicry of Dr. Johnson--The King's Birthday--Mr. Hastings's
Speech--A Well-preserved Beauty--The Burkes--Burke's
Conversational Powers--A Wild Irish Girl--Erskine's Egotism--
Caen-wood---An Adventure with Mrs. Crewe--An Invitation from
Arthur Young.                                                     




                               SECTION 10. 
                                  (1787)

                 COURT DUTIES AT ST. JAMES'S AND WINDSOR.

THE QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY DRAWING ROOM. 

January. Go back to the 16th, when I went to town, accompanied
only by Mr. de Luc.  I saw my dear father the next morning, who
gave me a poem on the queen's birthday, to present.  It was very
pretty; but I felt very awkward in offering it to her, as it was
from so near a relation, and without any particular reason or
motive.  Mr. Smelt came and stayed with me almost all the
morning, and soothed and solaced me by his charming converse. 
The rest of the day was devoted to milliners, mantua-makers, and
such artificers, and you may easily conjecture how great must be
my fatigue.  Nevertheless, when, in the midst of these wasteful
toils, the Princess Augusta entered my room, and asked me, from
the queen, if I should wish to see the ball the next day, I
preferred running the risk of that new fatigue, to declining an
honour so offered: especially as the Princess Augusta was herself
to open the ball.                                                 

A chance question this night from the queen, whom I now again
attended as usual, fortunately relieved me from my embarrassment
about the poem.  She inquired of me if my father was still
writing?  "A little," I answered, and the next morning, Thursday,
the 18th, when the birth-day was kept, I found her all sweetness
and serenity; mumbled out my own little compliment, which she
received as graciously as if she had understood and heard it; and
then,                                                             

Page 10                                                           

when she was dressed, I followed her through the great rooms, to
get rid of the wardrobe woman, and there taking the poem from my
pocket, I said "I told your majesty that my father had written a
little!--and here--the little is!"                                

She took it from me with a smile and a curtsey, and I ran off. 
She never has named it since; but she has spoken of my father
with much sweetness and complacency.  The modest dignity of the
queen, upon all subjects of panegyric, is truly royal and noble.  

I had now, a second time, the ceremony of being entirely new
dressed.  I then went to St. James's, where the queen gave a very
gracious approbation of my gewgaws, and called upon the king to
bestow the same; which his constant goodhumour makes a matter of
great ease to him.                                                

The queen's dress, being for her own birthday, was extremely
simple, the style of dress considered.  The king was quite
superb, and the Princesses Augusta and Elizabeth were ornamented
with much brilliancy.                                             

Not only the princess royal was missed at this exhibition, but
also the Prince of Wales.  He wrote, however, his congratulations
to the queen, though the coldness then subsisting between him and
his majesty occasioned his absence from Court.  I fear it was
severely felt by his royal mother, though she appeared composed
and content.                                                      

The two princesses spoke very kind words, also, about my frippery
on this festival; and Princess Augusta laid her positive commands
upon me that I should change my gown before I went to the lord
chamberlain's box, where only my head could be seen.  The counsel
proved as useful as the consideration was amiable.                

When the queen was attired, the Duchess of Ancaster was admitted
to the dressing room, where she stayed, in conversation with
their majesties and the princesses, till it was time to summon
the bed-chamber women.  During this, I had the office of holding
the queen's train.  I knew, for me, it was a great honour, yet it
made me feel, once more, so like a mute upon the stage, that I
could scarce believe myself only performing my own real
character.                                                        

Mrs. Stainforth and I had some time to stand upon the stairs
before the opening of the doors.  We joined Mrs. Fielding and her
daughters, and all entered together, but the crowd parted us -
they all ran on, and got in as they could, and I                 
Page 11                                                           

remained alone by the door.  They soon found me out, and made
signs to me, which I saw not, and then they sent me messages that
they had kept room for me just by them.  I had received orders
from the queen to go out at the end of the second country dance ;
I thought, therefore, that as I now was seated by the door, I had
better be content, and stay where I could make my exit in a
moment, and without trouble or disturbance.  A queer-looking old
lady sat next me, and I spoke to her now and then, by way of
seeming to belong to somebody.  She did not appear to know
whether it were advisable for her to answer me or not, seeing me
alone, and with high head ornaments; but as I had no plan but to
save appearances to the surrounders, I was perfectly satisfied
that my very concise propositions should meet with yet more
laconic replies.                                                  

Before we parted, however, finding me quiet and inoffensive, she
became voluntarily sociable, and I felt so much at home, by being
still in a part of the palace, that I needed nothing further than
just so much notice as not to seem an object to be avoided.       

The sight which called me to that spot perfectly answered all my
expectations: the air, manner, and countenance of the queen, as
she goes round the circle, are truly graceful and engaging: I
thought I could understand, by the motion of her lips, and the
expression of her face, even at the height and distance of the
chamberlain's box, the gracious and pleasant speeches she made to
all whom she approached.  With my glass, you know, I can see just
as other people see with the naked eye.                           

The princesses looked extremely lovely, and the whole Court was
in the utmost splendour.                                          


                            A SERIOUS DILEMMA.

At the appointed moment I slipped through the door, leaving my
old lady utterly astonished at my sudden departure, and I passed,
alone and quietly, to Mr. Rhamus's apartment, which was
appropriated for the company to wait in.  Here I desired a
servant I met with to call my man: he was not to be found.  I
went down the stairs, and made them call him aloud, by my name;
all to no purpose.  Then the chairmen were called, but called
also in vain!                                                     

What to do I knew not ; though I was still in a part of the      
Page 12                                                           

palace, it was separated by many courts, avenues, passages, and
alleys, from the queen's or my own apartments- and though I had
so lately passed them, I could not remember the way, nor at that
late hour could I have walked, dressed as I then was, and the
ground wet with recent rain, even if I had had a servant: I had
therefore ordered the chair allotted me for these days; but chair
and chairmen and footmen were alike out of the way.               

My fright lest the queen should wait for me was very serious.  I
believe there are state apartments through which she passes, and
therefore I had no chance to know when she retired from the
ball-room.  Yet could I not stir, and was forced to return to the
room whence I came, in order to wait for John, that I might be
out of the way of the cold winds which infested the hall.         

I now found a young clergyman, standing by the fire.  I suppose
my anxiety was visible, for he instantly inquired if he could
assist me.  I declined his offer, but walked up and down, making
frequent questions about my chair and John.                       

He then very civilly said, "You seem distressed, ma'am; would you
permit me the honour to see for your chair, or, if it is not
come, as you seem hurried, would you trust me to see you home?"   

I thanked him, but could not accept his services.  He was sorry,
he said, that I refused him, but could not wonder, as he was a
stranger.  I made some apologising answer, and remained in that
unpleasant situation till, at length, a hackneychair was procured
me.  My new acquaintance would take no denial to handing me to
the chair.  When I got in, I told the men to carry me to the
palace.                                                           

"We are there now!" cried they; "what part of the palace?"        

I was now in a distress the most extraordinary : I really knew
not my own direction! I had always gone to my apartment in a
chair, and had been carried by chairmen officially appointed;
and, except that it was in St. James's palace, I knew nothing of
my own situation.                                                 

"Near the park," I told them, and saw my new esquire look utterly
amazed at me.                                                     

"Ma'am," said he, " half the palace is in the park."              

"I don't know how to direct," cried I, in the greatest
embarrassment, "but it is somewhere between Pall Mall and the
park."                                                           
Page 13                                                           

"I know where the lady lives well enough," cried one of the
chairmen, "'tis in St. James's street."                           

"No, no," cried I, "'tis in St. James's palace."                  

"Up with the chair!" cried the other man, "I know best--'tis in
South Audley-street; I know the lady well enough."                

Think what a situation at the moment! I found they had both been
drinking the queen's health till they knew not what they said and
could with difficulty stand.  Yet they lifted me up, and though I
called in the most terrible fright to be let out, they carried me
down the steps.                                                   

I now actually screamed for help, believing they would carry me
off to South Audley-street; and now my good genius, who had
waited patiently in the crowd, forcibly stopped the chairmen, who
abused him violently, and opened the door himself, and I ran back
to the hall.                                                      

You may imagine how earnestly I returned my thanks for this most
seasonable assistance, without which I should almost have died
with terror, for where they might have taken or dropped me, or
how or where left me, who could say?                              

He begged me to go again upstairs, but my apprehension about the
queen prevented me.  I knew she was to have nobody but me, and
that her jewels, though few, were to be intrusted back to the
queen's house to no other hands.  I must, I said, go, be it in
what manner it might.  All I could devise was to summon Mr.
Rhamus, the page.  I had never seen him, but my attendance upon
the queen would be an apology for the application, and I
determined to put myself under his immediate protection.          

Mr. Rhamus was nowhere to be found ; he was already supposed to
be gone to the queen's house, to wait the arrival of his majesty. 
This news redoubled my fear; and now my new acquaintance desired
me to employ him in making inquiries for me as to the direction I
wanted.                                                           

It was almost ridiculous, in the midst of my distress, to be thus
at a loss for an address to myself!  I felt averse to speaking my
name amongst so many listeners, and only told him he would much
oblige me by finding out a direction to Mrs. Haggerdorn's rooms. 
He went upstairs ; and returning, said he could now direct the
chairmen, if I did not fear trusting them.                        

I did fear--I even shook with fear; yet my horror of
disappointing the queen upon such a night prevailed over all my
reluctance, and I ventured once more into the chair, thanking
this excellent Samaritan, and begging him to give the direction
very particularly.                                                

Page 14                                                           

Imagine, however, my gratitude and my relief, when, instead of
hearing the direction, I heard only these words, " Follow me." 
And then did this truly benevolent young man himself play the
footman, in walking by the side of the chair till we came to an
alley, when he bid them turn; but they answered him with an oath,
and ran on with me, till the poles ran against a wall, for they
had entered a passage in which there was no outlet!  I would fain
have got out, but they would not hear me; they would only pull
the chair back, and go on another way.  But my guardian angel
told them to follow him, or not, at their peril ; and then walked
before the chair.                                                 

We next came to a court where we were stopped by the sentinels. 
They said they had orders not to admit any hackney chairs.  The
chairmen vowed they would make way; I called out aloud to be set
down; the sentinels said they would run their bayonets through
the first man that attempted to dispute their orders.  I then
screamed out again to be set down, and my new and good friend
peremptorily forced them to stop, and opening the door with
violence, offered me his arm, saying, "You had better trust
yourself with me, ma'am!"                                         

Most thankfully I now accepted what so fruitlessly I had
declined, and I held by his arm, and we walked on together, but
neither of us knew whither, nor the right way from the wrong 1 It
was really a terrible situation.                                  

The chairmen followed us, clamorous for money, and full of abuse. 
They demanded half a crown - my companion refused to listen to
such an imposition : my shaking hand could find no purse, and I
begged him to pay them what they asked, that they might leave us. 
He did ; and when they were gone, I shook less, and was able to
pay that one part of the debt I was now contracting.              

We wandered about, heaven knows where, in a way the most alarming
and horrible to myself imaginable: for I never knew where I
was.--It was midnight.  I concluded the queen waiting for me.--It
was wet.  My head was full dressed.  I was under the care of a
total stranger; and I knew not which side to take, wherever we
came.  Inquiries were vain.  The sentinels alone were in sight,
and they are so continually changed that they knew no more of
Mrs.  Haggerdorn than if she had never resided here.              

At length I spied a door open, and I begged to enter it at a
venture, for information.  Fortunately a person stood in the
passage who instantly spoke to me by my name; I never             

Page 15                                                           

heard that sound with more glee: to me he was a stranger, but I
suppose he had seen me in some of the apartments.  I begged him
to direct me straight to the queen's rooms: he did ; and I then
took leave of my most humane new friend, with a thousand
acknowledgments for his benevolence and services.                 

Was it not a strange business ? I can never say what an agony Of
fright it cost me at the time, nor ever be sufficiently grateful
for the kind assistance, so providentially afforded me.'          


COUNSELS OF A COURT OFFICIAL.

The general directions and counsel of Mr. Smelt, which I have
scrupulously observed ever since, were, in abridgment, these:-    

That I should see nobody at all but by appointment.  This, as he
well said, would obviate, not only numerous personal
inconveniences to myself, but prevent alike surprises from those
I had no leave to admit, and repetitions of visits from others
who might inadvertently come too often.  He advised me to tell
this to my father, and beg it might be spread, as a settled part
of my situation, among all who inquired for me.                   

That I should see no fresh person whatsoever without an immediate
permission from the queen, nor any party, even amongst those
already authorised, without apprising her of such a plan.         

That I should never go out without an immediate application to
her, so that no possible inquiry for me might occasion surprise
or disappointment.                                                

These, and other similar ties, perhaps, had my spirits been
better, I might less readily have acceded to : as it was, I would
have bound myself to as many more.                                

At length, however, even then, I was startled when Mr. Smelt,
with some earnestness, said, "And, with respect to your parties,
such as you may occasionally have here, you have but one rule for
keeping all things smooth, and all partisans unoffended, at a
distance--which is, to have no men--none!                         

I stared a little, and made no answer.                            

"Yes," cried he, "Mr. Locke may be admitted; but him only.  Your
father, you know, is of course."                                  

Still I was silent: after a pause of some length, he plumply Yet
with an evidently affected unmeaningness, said, "Mr. Cambridge--
as to Mr. Cambridge--"                                            

I stopped him short at once; I dared not trust to what            

Page 16                                                           

might follow, and eagerly called Out, "Mr. Cambridge, Sir, I
cannot exclude! So much friendship and kindness I owe, and have
long owed him, that he would go about howling at my ingratitude,
could I seem so suddenly to forget it!"                           

My impetuosity in uttering this surprised, but silenced him; he
said not a word more, nor did I.                                  


            MR. TURBULENT's ANXIETY TO INTRODUCE MR. WELLBRED. 
Windsor, Sunday, Jan. 28.-I was too ill to go to church.  I was
now, indeed, rarely well enough for anything but absolute and
unavoidable duties ; and those were still painfully and forcibly
performed.                                                        

I had only Miss Planta for my guest, and when she went to the
princesses I retired for a quiet and solitary evening to my own
room.  But here, while reading, I was interrupted by a tat-tat at
my door.  I opened it and saw Mr. Turbulent. . . . He came
forward, and began a gay and animated conversation, with a flow
of spirits and good humour which I had never observed in him
before.                                                           

His darling colonel(230) was the subject that he still harped
upon; but it was only with a civil and amusing raillery, not, as
before, with an overpowering vehemence to conquer.  Probably,
however, the change in myself might be as observable as in him,--
since I now ceased to look upon him with that distance and
coldness which hitherto he had uniformly found in me.             

I must give you a little specimen of him in this new dress.       

After some general talk,                                          

"When, ma'am," he said, "am I to have the honour of introducing
Colonel Wellbred to you?"                                         

"Indeed, I have not settled that entirely!"                       

"Reflect a little, then, ma'am, and tell me.  I only wish to know
when."                                                            

"Indeed to tell you that is somewhat more than I am able to do; I
must find it out myself, first."                                  

" Well, ma'am, make the inquiry as speedily as possible, I beg. 
What say you to now? shall I call him up?                         

"No, no,--pray let him alone."                                    

"But will you not, at least, tell me your reasons for this
conduct?"                                                         

Page 17                                                           

"Why, frankly, then, if you will hear them and be quiet, I will
confess them."                                                    

I then told him, that I had so little time to myself, that to
gain even a single evening was to gain a treasure; and that I had
no chance but this.  "Not," said I, "that I wish to avoid him,
but to break the custom of constantly meeting with the
equerries."                                                       

"But it is impossible to break the custom, ma'am; it has been so
always: the tea-table has been the time of uniting the company,
ever since the king came to Windsor."                             

" Well, but everything now is upon a new construction.  I am not
positively bound to do everything Mrs. Haggerdorn did, and his
having drank tea with her will not make him conclude he must also
drink tea with me."                                               

No, no, that is true, I allow.  Nothing that belonged to her can
bring conclusions round to you.  But still, why begin with
Colonel Wellbred? You did not treat Colonel Goldsworthy so?"      

"I had not the power of beginning with him.  I did what I could,
I assure you."                                                    

"Major Price, ma'am?--I never heard you avoided him."             

"No; but I knew him before I came, and he knew much of my family,
and indeed I am truly sorry that I shall now see no more of him. 
But Colonel Wellbred and I are mutually strangers."               

"All people are so at first, every acquaintance must have a
beginning."                                                       

"But this, if you are quiet, we are most willing should have
none."                                                            

"Not he, ma'am--he is not so willing; he wishes to come.  He
asked me, to-day, if I had spoke about it."                       

I disclaimed believing this; but he persisted in asserting it,
adding "For he said if I had spoke he would come."                

"He is very condescending," cried I, "but I am satisfied he would
not think of it at all, if you did not put it in his head."       

"Upon my honour, You are mistaken; we talk just as much of it
down there as up here."                                           

"you would much oblige me if you would not talk of it,- neither
there nor here."                                                  

"Let me end it, then, by bringing him at once!"                   

"No, no, leave us both alone: he has his resources and his
engagements as much as I have; we both are best as we now are."   

Page 18                                                           

"But what can he say, ma'am? Consider his confusion and disgrace! 
 It is well known, in the world, the private life that the royal
family live at Windsor, and who are the attendants that belong to
them; and when Colonel Wellbred quits his waiting--three months'
waiting and is asked how he likes Miss Burney, he must answer he
has never seen her! And what, ma'am, has Colonel Wellbred done to
merit such a mortification?"                                      

It was impossible not to laugh at such a statement of the case;
and again he requested to bring him directly.  "One quarter of an
hour will content me ; I only wish to introduce him--for the sake
of his credit in the world; and when once you have met, you need
meet no more; no consequences whatever need be drawn to the
detriment of your solitude."                                      

I begged him to desist, and let us both rest.                     

"But have you, yourself, ma'am, no curiosity--no desire to see
Colonel Wellbred?"                                                

"None in the world."                                              

"If, then, hereafter you admit any other equerry--"               

"No, no, I intend to carry the new construction throughout."      

"Or if you suffer anyone else to bring you Colonel Wellbred."     

"Depend upon it I have no such intention."                        

"But if any other more eloquent man prevails--"                   

" Be assured there is no danger."                                 

"Will you, at least, promise I shall be present at the meet--?"   

" There will be no meeting."                                      

"You are certainly, then, afraid of him?"                         

I denied this, and, hearing the king's supper called, he took his
leave ; though not before I very seriously told him that, however
amusing all this might be as pure badinage, I Should 
be very earnestly vexed if he took any steps in the matter
without my consent.                                               



COLONEL WELLBRED IS RECEIVED AT TEA.

Feb. 2.-MISS Planta came to tea, and we went together to the
eating-parlour, which we found quite empty.  Mr. Turbulent's
studious table was all deserted, and his books laid waste; but in
a very few minutes he entered again, with his arms spread wide,
his face all glee, and his voice all triumph, calling out,        

Page 19                                                           

"Mr. Smelt and Colonel Wellbred desire leave to wait upon miss
Burney to tea!"                                                   

A little provoked at this determined victory over my will and my
wish, I remained silent,- but Miss Planta broke forth into open
upbraidings:                                                      

"Upon my word, Mr. Turbulent, this is really abominable it is all
your own doing--and if I was Miss Burney I would not bear it!"
and much more, till he fairly gave her to understand she had
nothing to do with the matter.                                    

Then, turning to me, "What am I to say, ma'am? am I to tell
Colonel Wellbred you hesitate?"  He protested he came upon the
embassy fairly employed.                                          

"Not fairly, I am sure, Mr. Turbulent The whole is a device and
contrivance of your own! Colonel Wellbred would have been as
quiet as myself, had you left him alone."                         

"Don't throw it all upon me, ma'am; 'tis Mr. Smelt.  But what are
they to think of this delay? are they to suppose it requires
deliberation whether or not you can admit a gentleman to your
tea-table?"                                                       

I begged him to tell me, at least, how it had passed, and in what
manner he had brought his scheme about.  But he would give me no
satisfaction; he only said "You refuse to receive him, ma'am?--
shall I go and tell him you refuse to receive him?"               

"O No,                                                            

This was enough -.  he waited no fuller consent, but ran off. 
Miss Planta began a good-natured repining for me.  I determined
to fetch some work before they arrived; and in coming for it to
my own room, I saw Mr. Turbulent, not yet gone downstairs.  I
really believe, by the strong marks of laughter on his
countenance, that he had stopped to compose himself before he
could venture to appear in the equerryroom!                       

I looked at him reproachfully, and passed on; he shook his head
at me in return, and hied downstairs.  I had but just time to
rejoin Miss Planta when he led the way to the two Other
gentlemen: entering first, with the most earnest curiosity, to
watch the scene.  Mr. Smelt followed, introducing the colonel.    

I could almost have laughed, so ridiculous had the behaviour of
Mr. Turbulent, joined to his presence and watchfulness, rendered
this meeting; and I saw in Colonel Wellbred the most evident
marks of similar sensations: for he coloured                      

Page 20                                                           

violently on his entrance, and seemed in an embarrassment that,
to any one who knew not the previous tricks of Mr. Turbulent,
must have appeared really distressing.  And, in truth, Mr. Smelt
himself, little imagining what had preceded the interview, was so
much struck with his manner and looks, that he conceived him to
be afraid of poor little me, and observed, afterwards, with what
"blushing diffidence" he had begun the acquaintance!              

I, who saw the true cause through the effect, felt more provoked
than ever with Mr. Turbulent, since I was now quite satisfied he
had been as busy with the colonel about me, as with me about the
colonel.                                                          

He is tall, his figure is very elegant, and his face very
handsome: he is sensible, well-bred, modest, and intelligent.  I
had always been told he was very amiable and accomplished, and
the whole of his appearance confirmed the report.                 

The discourse was almost all Mr. Smelt's, the colonel was silent
and reserved, and Mr. Turbulent had resolved to be a mere
watchman.  The king entered early and stayed late, and took away
with him, on retiring, all the gentlemen.                         

Feb. 3.-As the tea hour approached, to-day, Mr. Turbulent grew
very restless.  I saw what was passing in his mind, and therefore
forbore ordering tea; but presently, and suddenly, as if from
some instant impulse, he gravely came up to me, and said          

"Shall I go and call the colonel, ma'am?"                         

"No, sir!" was my johnsonian reply.                               

"What, ma'am!--won't you give him a little tea?"                 
"No, no, no!--I beg you will be at rest!"                         

He shrugged his shoulders, and walked away; and Mr. Smelt,
smiling, said, "Will you give us any?"                            

"O yes, surely cried I, and was going away to ring for the man.   

I believe I have already mentioned that I had no bell at all,
except in my bedroom, and that only for my maid, whom I was
obliged to summon first, like Smart's monkey--                    

"Here, Betty!--Nan!--                                             
Go, call the maid, to call the man!"                              

For Mrs. Haggerdorn had done without, twenty-six years, by always
keeping her servant in waiting at the door.  I could never endure
inflicting such a hardship, and therefore had always to run to my
bedroom, and wait the progress of the maid's arrival, and then of
her search of the man, ere ever                                   

Page 21                                                           

I could give him an order.  A mighty tiresome and inconvenient
ceremony.  Mr Turbulent insisted upon saving me this trouble, and
went 'out himself to speak to John.  But you will believe me a
little amazed, when, in a very few minutes, he returned again,
accompanied by his colonel!  My surprise brought the colour both
into my own cheeks and those of my guests.  Mr. Smelt looked
pleased; and Mr. Turbulent, though I saw he was half afraid of
what he was doing, could by no means restrain a most exulting
smile, which was constantly in play during the whole evening.     

Mr. Smelt instantly opened a conversation, with an ease and good
breeding which drew every one into sharing it.  The colonel was
far less reserved and silent, and I found him very pleasing, very
unassuming, extremely attentive, and sensible and obliging.  The
moment, however, that we mutually joined in the discourse, Mr.
Turbulent came to my side, and seating himself there, whispered
that he begged my pardon for the step he had taken.  I made him
no answer, but talked on with the colonel and Mr. Smelt.  He. 
then whispered me again, "I am now certain of your forgiveness,
since I see your approbation!" And when still 
I said nothing, he interrupted every speech to the colonel with
another little whisper, saying that his end was obtained, and he
was now quite happy, since he saw he had obliged me!              

At length he proceeded so far, with so positive a determination
to be answered, that he absolutely compelled me to say I forgave
him, lest he should go on till the colonel heard him.             



                           ECCENTRIC MR. BRYANT.

Feb. 9-This morning, soon after my breakfast, the princess royal
came to fetch me to the queen.  She talked of Mrs. Delany all the
way, and in terms of affection that can never fail to raise her
in the minds of all who hear her.  The queen was alone; and told
me she had been so much struck with the Duke of Suffolk's letter
to his son, in the Paston collection,(231)                        

 Page 22                                                          

that she wished to hear my opinion of it.  She then condescended
to read it to me.  It is indeed both instructive and interesting. 
She was so gracious, when she dismissed me, as to lend me the
book, desiring me to have it sent back to her apartment when I
went to dinner.                                                   

I had invited Mr. Bryant to dinner.  He came an hour before, and
I could not read "Paston," but rejoiced the more in his living
intelligence.  We talked upon the "Jew's Letters," 
which he had lent me.  Have    I mentioned them?  They are a
mighty well written defence        of the Mosaic law and mission,
and as orthodox for Christians as for Jews, with regard to their
main tenor, which is to refute the infidel doctrine of Voltaire
up to the time of our Saviour.                                    

Before our dinner we were joined by 'Mr. Smelt ; and the
conversation was then very good.  The same subject was continued,
except where it was interrupted by Mr. Bryant's speaking of his
own works, which was very frequently, and with a droll sort of
simplicity that had a mixture of nature and of humour extremely
amusing.  He told us, very frankly his manner of writing; he
confessed that what        he first committed to paper seldom
could be printed without variation or correction, even to a
single line: he copied everything over, he said, himself, and
three transcribings were the fewest he could ever make do; but,
generally, nothing went from him to the press under seven.        

Mr. Turbulent and Miss Planta came to dinner, and it was very
cheerful.  Ere it was over John told me somebody wanted me.  I
desired they might be shewn to my room till the things were
removed; but, as these were some time taking away, I called John
to let me know who it was.  "The princess royal, ma'am," was his
answer, with perfect ease.                                        

Up I started, ashamed and eager, and flew to her royal highness
instantly : and I found her calmly and quietly waiting, shut up
in my room, without any candles, and almost wholly in the dark,
except from the light of the fire!                  I made all
possible apologies, and doubled and trebled them upon her
Smilingly saying "I would not let them tell you who it was, nor
hurry you, for I know 'tis so disagreeable to be called          
Page 23                                                           

away in the middle of dinner."  And then, to reconcile me to the
little accident, she took hold of both my hands.                  

She came to me from the queen, about the "Paston Letters," which
John had not carried to the right page.                           

Very soon after came the king, who entered into a gay
disquisition with Mr. Bryant upon his school achievements to
which he answered with a readiness and simplicity highly
entertaining.                                                     

"You are an Etonian, Mr. Bryant," said the king, "but pray, for
what were you most famous at school?"                             

We all expected, from the celebrity of his scholarship, to hear
him answer his Latin Exercises but no such thing.                 

"Cudgelling, Sir.  I was most famous for that."                   

While a general laugh followed this speech, he very gravely
proceeded to particularize his feats though unless you could see
the diminutive figure, the weak, thin, feeble, little frame,
whence issued the proclamation of his prowess, you can but very
Inadequately judge the comic effect of his big talk.              

"Your majesty, sir, knows General Conway?  I broke his head for
him, sir."                                                        

The shout which ensued did not at all interfere with the
steadiness of his further detail.                                 

"And there's another man, Sir, a great stout fellow, Sir, as ever
you saw--Dr. Gibbon, of the Temple: I broke his head too, sir.--I
don't know if he remembers it."                                   

The king, afterwards, inquired after his present family, meaning
his dogs, which he is famed for breeding and preserving.          

"Why, sir," he answered, "I have now only twelve.  Once, I
recollect, when your majesty was so gracious as to ask me about
them, I happened to have twenty-two; and so I told you, sir. 
Upon my word, Sir, it made me very uneasy afterwards when I came
to reflect upon it: I was afraid your majesty might think I
presumed to joke!"                                                

The king then asked him for some account of the Marlborough
family, with which he is very particularly connected and desired
to know which among the young Lady Spencers was his favourite.    

"Upon my word, sir, I like them all! Lady Elizabeth is a charming
young lady--I believe, Sir, I am most in her favour; I don't know
why, Sir.  But I happened to write a letter to the duke, sir,
that she took a fancy to; I don't know the reason, sir, but she
begged it.  I don't know what was in the letter,                  

Page 24                                                           

sir-I could never find out; but she took a prodigious fancy to
it, sir."                                                         

The king laughed heartily, and supposed there might be some
compliments to herself in it.                                     

"Upon my word' sir," cried he, "I am afraid your majesty will
think I was in love with her! but indeed, sir, I don't know what
was in the letter."                                               

The converse went on in the same style, and the king was so much
entertained by Mr. Bryant, that he stayed almost the whole
evening,                                                          


                     MR TURBULENT IN A NEW CHARACTER.

Friday, Feb. 16.-The instant I was left alone with Mr. Turbulent
he demanded to know my "project for his happiness;" and he made
his claim in a tone so determined, that I saw it would be
fruitless to attempt evasion or delay.                            

"Your captivity, then, sir," cried I-"for such I must call your
regarding your attendance to be indispensable is at an end: the
equerry-coach is now wholly in your power.  I have spoken myself
upon the subject to the queen, as you bid--at least, braved me to
do; and I have now her consent to discharging you from all
necessity of travelling in our coach."(232)                       

He looked extremely provoked, and asked if I really meant to
inform him I did not choose his company?  I laughed the question
off, and used a world of civil argument to persuade him I had
only done him a good office: but I was fain to make the whole
debate as sportive as possible, as I saw him disposed to be
seriously affronted.                                              

A long debate ensued.  I had been, he protested, excessively
ill-natured to him.  "What an impression," cried he, "must this
make upon the queen! After travelling, with apparent content, six
years With that oyster Mrs. Haggerdorn--now--now that travelling
is become really agreeable--in that coach --I am to be turned out
of it! How must it disgrace me in her opinion!"                   

She was too partial, I said, to "that oyster," to look upon the
matter in such a degrading light nor would she think of it        

Page 25                                                           

at all, but as an accidental matter.  I then added, that the
reason that he had hitherto been destined to the female coach
was, that Mrs. Schwellenberg and Mrs. Haggerdorn were always
afraid of travelling by themselves; but that as I had more
courage, there was no need of such slavery.                       

"Slavery!"--repeated he, with an emphasis that almost startled
me,--"Slavery is pleasure--is happiness--when directed by our
wishes!"                                                          

And then, with a sudden motion that made me quite jump, he cast
himself at my feet, on both his knees--                           

"Your slave," he cried, "I am content to be! your slave I am
ready to live and die!"                                           

I begged him to rise, and be a little less rhapsodic.  "I have
emancipated you," I cried; "do not, therefore, throw away the
freedom you have been six years sighing to obtain.  You are now
your own agent--a volunteer--"                                    

"If I am," cried he, impetuously, "I dedicate myself to you!--A
volunteer, ma'am, remember that!  I dedicate myself to you,
therefore, of my own accord, for every journey!  You shall not
get rid of me these twenty years."                                

I tried to get myself away-but he would not let me move and he
began, with still increasing violence of manner, a most fervent
protestation that he would not be set aside, and that he devoted
himself to me entirely.  And, to say the simple truth, ridiculous
as all this was, I really began to grow a little frightened by
his vehemence and his posture - till, at last, in the midst of an
almost furious vow, in which he dedicated himself to me for ever,
he relieved me, by suddenly calling upon Jupiter, Juno, Mars, and
Hercules, and every god, and every goddess, to witness his oath. 
And then, content with his sublimity, he arose.                   

Was it not a curious scene? and have I not a curious fellow
traveller for my little journeys?                            
Monday, Feb. 19.-This morning I Proposed to my fellow travellers
that we should begin our journey on foot.  The wonderment with
which they heard a proposal so new was diverting : but they all
agreed to it; and though they declared that my predecessor, Mrs.
Haggerdorn, would have thought the person fit for Bedlam who
should have suggested such plan, no one could find any real
objection, and off we set, ordering the coach to proceed slowly
after us.                                                         

The weather was delightful, and the enterprise served to shorten
and enliven the expedition, and pleased them all,                 
Page 26                                                           

Mr. Turbulent began, almost immediately, an attack about his
colonel : upon quite a new ground, yet as restless and earnest as
upon the old one.  He now reproached my attention to him,
protesting I talked to him continually, and spun out into an
hour's discourse what might have been said in three minutes.      

"And was it my spinning?" I could not forbear saying.             

"Yes, ma'am: for you might have dropped it."                      

"How?--by not answering when spoken to?"                          

"by not talking to him, ma'am, more than to any one else."        

"And pray, Mr. Turbulent, solve me, then, this difficulty; what
choice has a poor female with whom she may converse? Must she
not, in company as in dancing, take up with those Who choose to
take up with her?"                                                

He was staggered by this question, and while he wavered how to
answer it, I pursued my little advantage--                        

"No man, Mr. Turbulent, has any cause to be flattered that a
woman talks with him, while it is only in reply; for though he
may come, go, address or neglect, and do as he will,-- she, let
her think and wish what she may, must only follow as he leads."   

He protested, with great warmth, he never heard any thing so
proudly said in Ins life.  But I would not retract.               

"And now, ma'am," he continued, "how wondrous intimate you are
grown!  After such averseness to a meeting--such struggles to
avoid him; what am I to think of the sincerity of that pretended
reluctance?"                                                      

"You must think the truth," said I, "that it was not the colonel,
but the equerry, I wished to avoid; that it was not the
individual, but the official necessity of receiving company, that
I wished to escape."                                              


                           BANTERING A PRINCESS.

March 1.- With all the various humours in which I had already
seen Mr. Turbulent, he gave me this evening a surprise, by his
behaviour to one of the princesses, nearly the same that I had
experienced from him myself.  The Princess Augusta came, during
coffee, for a knotting shuttle of the queen's.  While she was
speaking to me, he stood behind and exclaimed, `a demi voix, as
if to himself, "Comme elle est jolie ce soir, son Altesse
Royale!" And then, seeing her blush extremely, he clasped his
hands, in high pretended confusion,                               


Page 27                                                           

and hiding his head, called Out, "Que ferai-je? The princess has
heard me!"                                                        

"Pray, Mr. Turbulent," cried she, hastily, "what play are you to
read to-night?"                                                   

"You shall choose, ma'am; either 'La Coquette corrige,' or--"
[he named another I have forgotten.]                              

"O no!" cried she, "that last is shocking! don't let me hear
that!"                                                            

"I understand you, ma'am.  You fix, then, upon 'La Coquette?' 
'La Coquette' is your royal highness's taste?"                    

"No, indeed, I am sure I did not say that."                       

"Yes, ma'am, by implication.  And certainly, therefore, I will
read it, to please your royal highness!"                          

"No, pray don't; for I like none of them."                        

"None of them, ma'am?"                                            

"No, none;--no French plays at all!"  And away she was running,
with a droll air, that acknowledged she had said something to
provoke him.                                                      

"This is a declaration, ma'am, I must beg you to explain!" cried
he, gliding adroitly between the princess and the door, and
shutting it With his back.                                        

"No, no, I can't explain it;--so pray, Mr. Turbulent, do open the
door."                                                            

"Not for the world, ma'am, with such a stain uncleared upon your
royal highness's taste and feeling!"                              

She told him she positively could not stay, and begged him to let
her pass instantly.  But he would hear her no more than he has
heard me, protesting he was too much shocked for her, to suffer
her to depart without clearing her own credit!                    

He conquered at last, and thus forced to speak, she turned round
to us and said, "Well--if I must, then--I will appeal to these
ladies, who understand such things far better than I do, and ask
them if it is not true about these French plays, that they are
all so like to one another, that to hear them in this manner
every night is enough to tire one?"                               

"Pray, then, madam," cried he, "if French plays have the
misfortune to displease you, what national plays have the honour
Of your preference?"                                              

I saw he meant something that she understood better than me, for
she blushed again, and called out "Pray open the door at once!  I
can stay no longer; do let me go, Mr. Turbulent!"                
Page 28                                                           

"Not till you have answered that question, ma'am' what country
has plays to your royal highness's taste?"                        

"Miss Burney," cried she impatiently, yet laughing, "pray do you
take him away!--Pull him!"                                        

He bowed to me very invitingly for the office but I frankly
answered her, "Indeed, ma'am, I dare not undertake him!  I cannot
manage him at all."                                               

"The country! the country! Princess Augusta! name the happy
country!"  was all she could gain.                                

"Order him away, Miss Burney," cried she.  "It is your room:
order him away from the door."                                    

"Name it, ma'am, name it!" exclaimed he; "name but the chosen
nation!"                                                          

And then, fixing her with the most provoking eyes, "Est-ce la
Danemarc?" he cried.                                              

She coloured violently, and quite angry with him, called out,
"Mr. Turbulent, how can you be such a fool!"  And now I found . .
. the prince royal of Denmark was in his meaning, and in her
understanding!                                                    

He bowed to the ground, in gratitude for the term "fool," but
added with pretended Submission to her will, "Very well, ma'am,
s'il ne faut lire que les comdies Danoises."                     

" Do let me go!" cried she, seriously; and then he made way, with
a profound bow as she passed, saying, "Very well, ma'am, 'La
Coquette,' then? your royal highness chooses 'La Coquette
corrige?'"                                                       

"Corrige? That never was done!" cried she, with all her sweet
good-humour, the moment she got out - and off she ran, like
lightning, to the queen's apartments.                             

What say you to Mr. Turbulent now?                                

For my part, I was greatly surprised.  I had not imagined any
man, but the king or Prince of Wales, had ever ventured at a
badinage of this sort with any of the princesses; nor do I
suppose any other man ever did.  Mr. Turbulent is so great a
favourite with all the royal family that he safely ventures upon
whatever he pleases, and doubtless they find, in his courage and
his rhodomontading, a novelty extremely amusing to them.          


                    MR. TURBULENT MEETS WITH A REBUFF.

March--I must now, rather reluctantly I own, come to recite a
quarrel, a very serious quarrel, in which I have been involved
with my most extraordinary fellow-traveller.  One evening at
Windsor Miss Planta left the room, while I was                    

Page 29                                                           

winding some silk.  I was content to stay and finish the skein,
though my remaining companion was in a humour too flighty to
induce me to continue with him a moment longer.  Indeed I had
avoided pretty successfully all tte--tetes with him since the
time when his eccentric genius led to such eccentric conduct in
our long conference in the last month.                            

This time, however, when I had done my work, he protested I
should stay and chat with him.  I pleaded business--letters--
hurry--all in vain: he would listen to nothing, and when I tried
to move was so tumultuous in his opposition, that I was obliged
to re-seat myself to appease him.                                 

A flow of compliments followed, every one of which I liked less
and less; but his spirits seemed uncontrollable, and, I suppose,
ran away with all that ought to check them.  I laughed and
rallied as long as I possibly could, and tried to keep him in
order, by not seeming to suppose he wanted aid for that purpose:
yet still, every time I tried to rise, he stopped me, and uttered
at last Such expressions of homage--so like what Shakspeare says
of the school-boy, who makes "a sonnet on his mistress' eyebrow,"
which is always his favourite theme--that I told him his real
compliment was all to my temper, in imagining it could brook such
mockery.                                                          

This brought him once more on his knees, with such a volley of
asseverations of his sincerity, uttered with such fervour and
eloquence, that I really felt uneasy, and used every possible
means to get away from him, rallying him however all the time,
and disguising the consciousness I felt of my inability to quit
him.  More and more vehement, however, he grew, till I could be
no longer passive, but forcibly rising, protested I would not
stay another minute.  But you may easily imagine my astonishment
and provocation, when, hastily rising himself, he violently
seized hold of me, and compelled me to return to my chair, with a
force and a freedom that gave me as much surprise as offence.     

All now became serious.  Raillery, good-humour, and even
pretended ease and unconcern, were at an end.  The positive
displeasure I felt I made positively known; and the voice
manner, and looks with which I insisted upon an immediate'
release were so changed from what he had ever heard or observed
in me before, that I saw him quite thunderstruck with the
alteration; and all his own violence subsiding, he begged my
pardon with the mildest humility.                                 

He had made me too angry to grant it, and I only desired          

Page 30                                                           

him to let me instantly go to my room.  He ceased all personal
opposition, but going to the door, planted himself before it, and
said, "Not in wrath! I cannot let you go away in wrath!"          

"You must, sir," cried I, "for I am in wrath!"                   
He began a thousand apologies, and as many promises of the most
submissive behaviour in future; but I stopped them all, with a
peremptory declaration that every minute he detained me made me
but the more seriously angry.  His vehemence now was all changed
into strong alarm, and he opened the door, profoundly bowing, but
not speaking, as I passed him.                                    

I am sure I need not dwell upon the uncomfortable sensations I
felt, in a check so rude and violent to the gaiety and
entertainment of an acquaintance which had promised me my best
amusement during our winter campaigns.  I was now to begin upon
quite a new system, and instead of encouraging, as hitherto I had
done, everything that could lead to vivacity and spirit, I was
fain to determine upon the most distant and even forbidding
demeanour with the only life of our parties, that he might not
again forget himself.                                             

This disagreeable conduct I put into immediate practice.  I
stayed in my own room till I heard every one assembled in the
next : I was then obliged to prepare for joining them, but before
I opened the door a gentle rap at it made me call out "Who's
there?" and Mr. Turbulent looked in.                              

I hastily said I was coming instantly, but he advanced softly
into the room, entreating forgiveness at every step.  I made no
other answer than desiring he would go, and saying I should
follow.  He went back to the door, and, dropping on one knee,
said, "Miss Burney! surely you cannot be seriously angry?-'tis so
impossible you should think I meant to offend you!"               

I said nothing, and did not look near him, but opened the door,
from which he retreated to make way for me, rising a little
mortified, and exclaiming, "Can you then have such real
ill-nature? How little I suspected it in you!"                    

"'Tis you," cried I, as I passed on, "that are ill-natured!"      

I meant for forcing me into anger; but I left him to make the
meaning out, and walked into the next room.  He did not
immediately follow, and he then appeared so much disconcerted
that I saw Miss Planta incessantly eyeing him, to find out what
was the matter.  I assumed an unconcern I did not                 
Page 31                                                           

feel for I was really both provoked and sorry, foreseeing what a
breach this folly must make in the comfort of my Windsor
expeditions,          

He sat down a little aloof, and entered into no
                                   conversation all the evening;
but just as tea was over, the hunt of    the next being mentioned 
 he suddenly, asked Miss Planta to request leave for him of the
queen to ride out with the party.

"I shall not see the queen," cried she; "you had much better ask
Miss Burney." 

This was very awkward.  I was in no humour to act for him at this
time, nor could he muster courage to desire it; but upon Miss
Planta's looking at each of us with some surprise, and repeating
her amendment to his proposal, he faintly said, "Would Miss
Burney be so good as to take that trouble?"

An opportunity offering favourably, I spoke at night to the
queen, and she gave leave for his attending the chase.        I
intended to send this permission to Miss Planta, but I had scarce
returned to my own room from her majesty, before a rap at my door
was followed by his appearance.           He stood quite aloof,
looking grave and contrite.      I Immediately called out "I have
spoken, sir, to the queen, and you have her leave to go."  
He bowed very profoundly, and thanked me, and was retreating, but
came back again, and advancing, assumed an air of less humility,
and exclaimed, "Allons donc, Mademoiselle, j'espre que vous
n'tes plus si mchante qu'hier au soir!" 

I said nothing; he came nearer, and, bowing upon his own hand,
held it out for mine, with a look of most respectful
Supplication. I had no intention of cutting the matter so short,
yet from shame to sustain resentment, I was compelled to hold out
a finger: he took it with a look of great gratitude, and very
reverently touching the tip of my glove with his lip, instantly
let it go, and very solemnly said, "Soyez sr que  je n'ai
jamais eu la moindre ide de vous offenser." and then he thanked
me again for his licence, and went his way. 


                          A SURPRISE AT THE PLAY.

I had the pleasure of two or three visits from Mr. Bryant, whose
loyal regard for the king and queen makes him eagerly accept
every invitation, from the hope of seeing them in my room; and
one of the days they both came in to speak to him, and were
accompanied by the two eldest princesses, who stood

Page 32                                                           

chatting with me by the door the whole time, and saying comical
things upon royal personages in tragedies, particularly Princess
Augusta, who has a great deal of sport in her disposition.  She
very gravely asserted she thought some of those princes on the
stage looked really quite as well as some she knew off it.        

Once about this time I went to a play myself, which surely I may
live long enough and never forget.  It was "Seduction," a very
clever piece, but containing a dreadful picture of vice and
dissipation in high life, written by Mr. Miles Andrews, with an
epilogue--O, such an epilogue! I was listening to it with
uncommon attention, from a compliment paid in it to Mrs. Montagu,
among other female writers; but imagine what became of my
attention when I suddenly was struck with these lines, or
something like them:--                                            

Let sweet Cecilia gain your just applause, Whose every passion
yields to Reason's laws."                   

To hear, wholly unprepared and unsuspicious, such lines in a
theatre--seated in a royal box--and with the whole royal family
and their suite immediately opposite me--was it not a singular
circumstance?  To describe my embarrassment would be impossible. 
My whole head was leaning forward, with my opera glass in my
hand, examining Miss Farren, who spoke the epilogue.  Instantly I
shrank back, so astonished and so ashamed of my public situation,
that I was almost ready to take to my heels and run, for it
seemed as if I were there purposely in that conspicuous place--   

"To list attentive to my own applause."                           

The king immediately raised his opera-glass to look at me,
laughing heartily--the queen's presently took the same
direction--all the princesses looked up, and all the attendants,
and all the maids of honour!                                      

I protest I was never more at a loss what to do with myself:
nobody was in the front row with me but Miss Goldsworthy, who
instantly seeing how I was disconcerted, prudently and
good-naturedly forbore taking any notice of me.  I sat as far
back as I could, and kept my fan against the exposed profile for
the rest of the night, never once leaning forward, nor using my
glass.                                                            

None of the royal family spoke to me on this matter till a few
days after; but I heard from Mrs. Delany they had all declared    

Page 33                                                           

themselves sorry for the confusion it had caused me.  And some
time after the queen could not forbear saying, "I hope, Miss
Burney, YOU minded the epilogue the other night?"                 

And the king, very comically, said, "I took a peep at you!--I
could not help that.  I wanted to see how you looked when your
father first discovered your writing--and now I think I know!"    


                           THE KING's BIRTHDAY.

St. James's Palace, June 4-Take a little of the humours of this
day, with respect to myself, as they have arisen.  I quitted my
downy pillow at half-past six o'clock, for bad habits in sickness
have lost me half an hour of every morning; and then, according
to an etiquette I discovered but on Friday night, I was quite new
dressed: for I find that, on the king's birthday, and on the
queen's, both real and nominal, two new attires, one half, the
other full dressed, are expected from all attendants that come
into the royal presence.                                          

This first labour was happily achieved in such good time, that I
was just seated to my breakfast--a delicate bit of roll
half-eaten, and a promising dish of tea well stirred--when I
received my summons to attend the queen.                          

She was only with her wardrobe-woman, and accepted most
graciously a little murmuring congratulation upon the- day, which
I ventured to whisper while she looked another way.  Fortunately
for me, she is always quick in conceiving what is meant, and
never wastes time in demanding what is said.  She told me she had
bespoke Miss Planta to attend at the grand toilette at St.
James's, as she saw my strength still diminished by my late
illness.  Indeed it still is, though in all other respects I am
perfectly well.                                                   

The queen wore a very beautiful dress, of a new manufacture, of
worked muslin, thin, fine, and clear, as the chambery gauze.  I
attended her from the blue closet, in which she dresses, through
the rooms that lead to the breakfast apartment.  In One of these
while she stopped for her hair-dresser to finish her head-dress,
the king joined her.  She spoke to him in German, and he kissed
her hand.                                                         

The three elder princesses came in soon after: they all went up,
with congratulatory smiles and curtsies, to their royal father,
who kissed them very affectionately; they then, as usual every
Morning, kissed the queen's hand.  The door was thrown open       
Page 34                                                           

to the breakfast-room, which is a noble apartment, fitted up with
some of Vandyke's best works; and the instant the king, who led
the way, entered, I was surprised by a sudden sound of music, and
found that a band of musicians were stationed there to welcome
him.  The princesses followed, but Princess Elizabeth turned
round to me to say she could hardly bear the sound: it was the
first morning of her coming down to breakfast for many months, as
she had had that repast in her own room ever since her dangerous
illness.  It overcame her, she said, more than the dressing, more
than the early rising, more than the whole of the hurry and
fatigue of all the rest of a public birthday.  She loves the king
most tenderly; and there is a something in receiving any person
who is loved, by sudden music, that I can easily conceive to be
very trying to the nerves.                                        

Princess Augusta came back to cheer and counsel her; she begged
her to look out at the window, to divert her thoughts, and said
she would place her where the sound might be less affecting to
her.                                                              

A lively "How d'ye do, Miss Burney? I hope you are quite well
now?" from the sweet Princess Mary, who was entering the
ante-room, made me turn from her two charming sisters; she passed
on to the breakfast, soon followed by Princess Sophia, and then a
train of their governesses, Miss Goldsworthy, Mademoiselle
Montmoulin, and Miss Gomme, all in full dress, with fans.  We
reciprocated little civilities, and I had then the pleasure to
see little Princess Amelia, with Mrs. Cheveley, who brought up
the rear.  Never, in tale or fable, were there six sister
princesses more lovely.                                           

As I had been extremely distressed upon the queen's birthday, in
January, where to go or how to act, and could obtain no
information from my coadjutrix, I now resolved to ask for
directions from the queen herself; and she readily gave them, in
a manner to make this day far more comfortable to me than the
last.  She bade me dress as fast as I could, and go to St.
James', by eleven o'clock; but first come into the room to her.   
Then followed my grand toilette.  The hair-dresser was waiting
for me, and he went to work first, and I second, with all our
might and main.  When my adorning tasks were accomplished, I went
to the blue closet.  No one was there, I then hesitated whether
to go back or seek the queen.  I have a dislike insuperable to
entering a royal presence, except by an                           

Page 35                                                           

immediate Summons: however, the directions I had had prevailed,
and I- went into the adjoining apartment.  There stood Madame de
la Fite! she was talking in a low voice with M. de Luc.  They
told me the queen was in the next room, and on I went.            

She was seated at a glass, and the hair-dresser was putting on
her jewels, while a clergyman in his canonicals was standing 
near and talking to her.  I imagined him some bishop unknown to
me, and stopped; the queen looked round, and called out "it's
Miss Burney!--come in, Miss Burney." in I came, curtseying
respectfully to a bow from the canonicals, but I found not out
till he answered something said by the queen, that it was no
other than Mr. Turbulent.                                         

Madame de la Fite then presented herself at the door (which was
open for air) of the ante-room.  The queen bowed to her, and said
she would see her presently: she retired, and her majesty, in a
significant low voice, said to me, "Do go to her, and keep her
there a little!"  I obeyed, and being now in no fright nor hurry,
entered into conversation with her sociably and comfortably.      

I then went to St. James's.  The queen was most brilliant in
attire; and when she was arrayed, Mr. West(233) was allowed to
enter the dressing-room, in order to give his opinion of the
disposition -of her jewels, which indeed were arranged with great
taste and effect.                                                 

The three princesses, Princess Royal, Augusta, and Elizabeth,
were all very splendidly decorated, and looked beautiful.  They
are indeed uncommonly handsome, each in their different Way-the
princess royal for figure, the Princess Augusta for countenance,
and the Princess Elizabeth for face.                              


                      THE EQUERRIES: COLONEL MANNERS.


Friday, June 8-This day we came to Windsor for the Summer, during
which we only go to town for a Drawing-room once a fortnight, and
to Kew in the way.  Mrs. Schwellenberg remained in town, not well
enough to move.                                                   

The house now was quite full, the king having ordered a party to
it for the Whitsun holidays.  This party was Colonel              

page 36                                                           

Manners, the equerry in waiting; Colonel Ramsden, a good-humoured
and well-bred old officer of the king's household; Colonels
Wellbred and Goldsworthy, and General Bud.                       

Colonel Ramsden is gentle and pleasing, but very silent; General
Bud is always cheerful, but rises not above a second; Colonel
Hotham has a shyness that looks haughty, and therefore distances;
Colonel Goldsworthy reserves his sport and humour for particular
days and particular favourites; and Colonel Wellbred draws back
into himself unless the conversation promises either instruction
or quiet pleasure; nor would any one of these, during the whole
time, speak at all, but to a next neighbour, nor even then,
except when that neighbour suited his fancy.                      

You must not, however, imagine we had no public speakers; M. del
Campo harangued aloud to whoever was willing to listen, and
Colonel Manners did the same, without even waiting for that
proviso.  Colonel Manners, however, I must introduce to you by a
few specimens: he is so often, in common with all the equerries,
to appear on the scene, that I wish you to make a particular
acquaintance with him.                                            

One evening, when we were all, as usual, assembled, he began a
discourse upon the conclusion of his waiting, which finishes with
the end of June:--"Now I don't think," cried he, "that it's well
managed: here we're all in waiting for three months at a time,
and then for nine months there's nothing!"                        

"Cry your mercy!" cried Colonel Goldsworthy, "if three months-
-three whole months--are not enough for you, pray take a few more
from mine to make up your market!"                                

"No, no, I don't mean that;--but why can't we have our waitings
month by month?--would not that be better?"                       

"I think not!--we should then have no time unbroken."             

"Well, but would not that be better than what it is now?  Why,
we're here so long, that when one goes away nobody knows one!--
one has quite to make a new acquaintance!  Why, when I first come
out of waiting, I never know where to find anybody!"              

The Ascot races were held at this time; the royal family were to
be at them one or two of the days.  Colonel Manners earnestly
pressed Miss Port to be there.  Colonel Goldsworthy said it was
quite immaterial to him who was there, for when he was attending
royalty he never presumed to think of any private comfort.        

"Well, I don't see that!" cried Colonel Manners,--"for if         

Page 37                                                           

I was you, and not in my turn for waiting, I should go about just
as I liked;--but now, as for me, as it happens to be my own turn,
Why I think it right to be civil to the king."                    

We all looked round;--but Colonel Goldsworthy broke forth aloud--
"Civil, quotha?" cried he; "Ha! ha! civil, forsooth!--You're
mighty condescending!--the first equerry I ever heard talk of his
civility to the king!--'Duty,' and 'respect,' and 'humble
reverence,'--those are words we are used to,--but here come you
with Your civility!----Commend me to such affability!"            

 you see he is not spared; but Colonel Goldsworthy is the wag
professed of their community, and privileged to say what he
pleases.  The other, with the most perfect good-humour, accepted
the joke, without dreaming of taking offence at the sarcasm.      

Another evening the king sent for Colonel Ramsden to play at
backgammon.                                                       

"Happy, happy man!" exclaimed Colonel Goldsworthy, exultingly;
but scarce had he uttered the words ere he was summoned to follow
himself.  "What! already!" cried he,--"without even my tea!  Why
this is worse and worse!--no peace in Israel!--only one half hour
allowed for comfort, and now that's swallowed!  Well, I must
go;--make my complaints aside, and my bows and smiles in full
face!"                                                            

Off he went, but presently, in a great rage, came back, and,
while he drank a hot dish of tea which I instantly presented him,
kept railing at his stars for ever bringing him under a royal
roof.  "If it had not been for a puppy," cried he, "I had never
got off even to scald my throat in this manner But they've just
got a dear little new ugly dog: so one puppy gave Way to t'other,
and I just left them to kiss and hug it, while I stole off to
drink this tea!  But this is too much!---no peace for a moment!--
no peace in Israel!"                                              

When this was passed, Colonel Wellbred renewed some of the
conversation of the preceding day with me; and, just as he named
Dr. Herschel Colonel Manners broke forth with his dissenting
opinions.  "I don't give up to Dr. Herschel at all," cried he;
"he is all system; and so they are all: and if they can but make
out their systems, they don't care a pin for anything else.  As
to Herschel, I liked him well enough till he came to his
volcanoes in the moon, and then I gave him up, I saw he was just
like the rest.  How should he know anything Of the matter? 
There's no such thing as pretending to measure, at such a
distance as that?"                                                

Page 38                                                           

Colonel Wellbred, to whom I looked for an answer, instead of
making any, waited in quiet silence till he had exhausted all he
had to say upon the subject, and then, turning to me, made some
inquiry about the Terrace, and went on to other general matters. 
But, some time after, when all were engaged, and this topic
seemed quite passed, he calmly began, in general terms, to lament
that the wisest and best of people were always so little honoured
or understood in their own time, and added that he had no doubt
but Sir Isaac Newton had been as much scoffed and laughed at
formerly as Herschel was now; but concluded, in return,
Herschel, hereafter, would be as highly reverenced as Sir Isaac
was at present. . . .                                             

We had then some discourse upon dress and fashions.  Virtuosos
being next named, Colonel Manners inveighed against them quite
violently, protesting they all wanted common honour and honesty;
and to complete the happy subject, he instanced, in particular,
Sir William Hamilton, who, he declared, had absolutely robbed
both the king and state of Naples!                                

After this, somebody related that, upon the heat in the air being
mentioned to Dr.   Heberden, he had answered that he supposed it
proceeded from the last eruption in the volcano in the moon:
"Ay," cried Colonel Manners, "I suppose he knows as much of the
matter as the rest of them: if you put a candle at the end of a
telescope, and let him look at it, he'll say, what an eruption
there is in the moon! I mean if Dr, Herschel would do it to him;
I don't say he would think so from such a person as me."          

"But Mr. Bryant himself has seen this volcano from the
telescope."                                                       

"Why, I don't mind Mr. Bryant any more than Dr. Heberden: he's
just as credulous as t'other."                                    

I wanted to ask by what criterion he settled these points in so
superior a manner:--but I thought it best to imitate the silence
of Colonel Wellbred, who constantly called a new subject, upon
every pause, to avoid all argument and discussion while the
good-humoured Colonel Manners was just as ready to start forward
in the new subject, as he had been in that which had been set
aside.                                                            

One other evening I invited Madame de la Fite: but it did not
prove the same thing; they have all a really most undue dislike
of her, and shirk her conversation and fly to one another, to
discourse on hunting and horses.                                  

Page 39                                                           

                    THE DUCHESS DE POLIGNAC AT WINDSOR.

The following Sunday, June 17, I was tempted to go on the
Terrace, in order to se the celebrated Madame de Polignac,(234)
and her daughter, Madame de Guiche.  They were to be presented,
with the Duke de Polignac, to their majesties, upon the Terrace. 
Their rank entitled them to this distinction; and the Duchess of
Ancaster, to whom they had been extremely courteous abroad, came
to Windsor to introduce them.  They were accompanied to the
Terrace by Mrs. Harcourt and the general 'with whom they were
also well acquainted.                                             

They went to the place of rendezvous at six o'clock; the royal
party followed about seven, and was very brilliant upon the
occasion.  The king and queen led the way, and the Prince of
Wales, who came purposely to honour the interview, appeared at it
also, in the king's Windsor uniform.  Lady Weymouth was in
waiting upon the queen.  The Duchess of Ancaster, Lady Charlotte
Bertie, and Lady Elizabeth Waldegrave, with some other ladies, I
think, attended: but the two eldest princesses, to the very great
detriment of the scenery, were ill, and remained at home. 
Princess Elizabeth and Mary were alone in the queen's suite.      

I went with Miss Port and Mrs.  and Miss Heberden.  The crowd was
so great, it was difficult to move.  Their majesties and their
train occupied a large space, and their attendants                

Page 40                                                           

had no easy task in keeping them from being incommoded by the
pressing of the people.  They stopped to converse with these
noble travellers for more than an hour.  Madame la Duchesse de
Polignac is a very well-looking woman, and Madame de Guiche is
very pretty.  There were other ladies and gentlemen in their
party.  But I was much amused by their dress, which they meant
should be entirely `a l'Angloise--for which purpose they had put
on plain undress gowns, with close ordinary black silk bonnets! I
am sure they must have been quite confused when they saw the
queen and princesses, with their ladies, who were all dressed
with uncommon care, and very splendidly.                          

But I was glad, at least, they should all witness, and report,
the reconciliation of the king and the Prince of Wales, who
frequently spoke together, and were both in good spirits.         


COLONEL MANNERS' MUSICAL ACCOMPLISHMENTS.

Miss Port and myself had, afterwards, an extremely risible
evening with Colonels Goldsworthy, Wellbred, and Manners the rest
were summoned away to the king, or retired to their own
apartments.  Colonel Wellbred began the sport, undesignedly, by
telling me something new relative to Dr. Herschel's volcanoes. 
This was enough for Colonel Manners, who declared aloud his utter
contempt for such pretended discoveries.  He was deaf to all that
could be said in answer, and protested he wondered how any man of
common sense could ever listen to such a pack of stuff.           

Mr. de Luc's opinion upon the subject being then mentioned--he
exclaimed, very disdainfully, "O, as to Mr. de Luc, he's another
man for a system himself, and I'd no more trust him than anybody:
if you was only to make a little bonfire, and put it upon a hill
a little way off, you might make him take it for a volcano
directly!--And Herschel's not a bit better.  Those sort of
philosophers are the easiest taken in in the world."            
Our next topic was still more ludicrous.  Colonel Manners asked
me if I had not heard something, very harmonious at church in the
morning?  I answered I was too far off, if he meant from himself. 

"Yes," said he; "I was singing with Colonel Wellbred; and he said
he was my second.--How did I do that song?"                       

"Song?--Mercy!" exclaimed Colonel Goldsworthy, "a song at
church!--why it was the 104th Psalm!"                             

Page 41                                                           

"But how did I do it, Wellbred; for I never tried at it before?"  

"why--pretty well," answered Colonel Wellbred, very composedly;
"Only now and then you run me a little into 'God save the king.'" 

This dryness discomposed every muscle but of Colonel Manners, who
replied, with great simplicity, "Why, that's because that's the
tune I know best!"                                                

"At least," cried I, "'twas a happy mistake to make so near their
majesties."                                                       

"But: pray, now, Colonel Wellbred, tell me sincerely)--could you
really make out what I was singing?"                              

"O yes," answered Colonel Wellbred; "with the words."             

"Well, but pray, now, what do you call my voice?"                 

"Why--a--a--a counter-tenor."                                     

"Well, and is that a good voice?"                                 

There was no resisting,-even the quiet Colonel Wellbred could not
resist laughing out here.  But Colonel Manners, quite at his
ease, continued his self-discussion.                              

"I do think, now, if I was to have a person to play over a thing
to me again and again, and then let me sing it, and stop me every
time I was wrong, I do think I should be able to sing 'God save
the king' as well as some ladies do, that have always people to
show them."                                                       

"You have a good chance then here," cried I, "of singing some
pieces of Handel, for I am sure you hear them again and again!"   

"Yes, but that is not the thing for though I hear them do it' so
often over, they don't stop for me to sing it after them, and
then to set me right.  Now I'll try if you'll know what this is." 

He then began humming aloud, "My soul praise," etc., so very
horribly, that I really found all decorum at an end, and laughed,
with Miss Port, `a qui mieux mieux.  Too much engaged to mind
this, he very innocently, when he had done, applied to us all
round for our opinions.                                           

Miss Port begged him to sing another, and asked for that he had
spouted the other day, "Care, thou bane of love and joy."         

He instantly complied; and went on, in such shocking, discordant
and unmeaning sounds, that nothing in a farce could be more
risible: in defiance however of all interruptions, he Continued
till he had finished one stanza; when Colonel Goldsworthy loudly
called out,--"There,--there's enough!--have mercy!"               

Page 42                                                           

"Well, then, now I'll try something else."                        

"O, no!" cried Colonel Goldsworthy, hastily, "thank you, thank
you for this,-but I won't trouble you for more--I'll not bear
another word."                                                    

Colonel Wellbred then, with an affected seriousness, begged to
know, since he took to singing, what he should do for a shake,
which was absolutely indispensable.                               

"A shake?" he repeated, "what do you mean?"                       

"Why--a shake with the voice, such as singers make."              

"Why, how must I do it?"                                          

"O, really, I cannot tell you."                                   

"Why, then, I'll try myself--is it so?"                           

And he began such a harsh hoarse noise, that Colonel Goldsworthy
exclaimed, between every other sound,--"No, no,--no more!"  While
Colonel Wellbred professed teaching him, and gave such ridiculous
lessons and directions,-now to stop short, now to swell,-now to
sink the voice, etc., etc., that, between the master and the
scholar, we were almost demolished.                               


                 MRS. SCHWELLENBERG'S "LUMP OF LEATHER." 

Tuesday, June 19.-We were scarcely all arranged at tea when
Colonel Manners eagerly said, "Pray, Mrs. Schwellenberg, have you
lost anything?"                                                   

"Me?--no, not I                                                   

"No?--what, nothing?"                                             

"Not I!"                                                          

"Well, then, that's very odd! for I found something that had your
name writ upon it."                                               

"My name? and where did you find that?"                           

"Why--it was something I found in my bed."                        

"In your bed?--O, very well! that is reelly comeecal?"            

"And pray what was it?" cried Miss Port.                          

"Why--a great large, clumsy lump of leather."                     


"Of leadder, sir?--of leadder? What was that for me?"             

"Why, ma'am, it was so big and so heavy, it was as much as I
could do to lift it!"                                             

"Well, that was nothing from me! when it was so heavy, you might
let it alone!"                                                    

"But, ma'am, Colonel Wellbred said it was somewhat of yours."     

Page 43                                                           

"Of mine?--O, ver well! Colonel Wellbred might not say such
thing!  I know nothing, Sir, from your leadder, nor from your
bed, sir,--not I!"                                                

"Well, ma'am, then your maid does.  Colonel Wellbred says he
supposes it was she."                                             

"Upon my vord! Colonel Wellbred might not say such things from my
maid!  I won't not have it so!"                                   

"O yes, ma'am; Colonel Wellbred says she often does SO.  He says
she's a very gay lady."                                           

She was quite too much amazed to speak: one of her maids, Mrs.
Arline, is a poor humble thing, that would not venture to jest, I
believe, with the kitchen maid, and the other has never before
been at Windsor.                                                  

"But what was it?" cried Miss Port.                               

"Why, I tell you--a great, large lump of leather, with 'Madame
Schwellenberg' wrote upon it.  However, I've ordered it to be
sold."                                                            

"To be sold? How will you have it sold, Sir? You might tell me
that, when you please."                                           

"Why, by auction, ma'am."                                         

"By auction, Sir? What, when it had my name upon it? Upon my
vord!--how come you to do dat, sir? Will you tell me, once?"      

"Why, I did it for the benefit of my man, ma'am, that he might
have the money."                                                  

"But for what is your man to have it, when it is mine?"           

"Because, ma'am, it frightened him so."                           

"O, ver well! Do you rob, sir?  Do you take what is not your own,
but others', sir, because your man is frightened?"                

"O yes, ma'am! We military men take all we can get!"              

"What! in the king's house, Sir!"                                 

"Why then, ma'am, what business had it in my bed? My room's my
castle: nobody has a right there.  My bed must be my treasury;
and here they put me a thing into it big enough to be a bed
itself."----                                                      

"O! vell! (much alarmed) it might be my bed-case, then!" 
(Whenever Mrs. Schwellenberg travels, she carries her bed in a
large black leather case, behind her servants' carriage.)         

" Very likely, ma'am."                                            

"Then, sir," very angrily, "how Come you by it?"                  

"Why, I'll tell you, ma'am.  I was just going to bed; so MY
servant took one candle, and I had the other.  I had just had my  
hair done, and my curls were just rolled up, and he               

Page 44                                                           

was going away; but I turned about, by accident, and I saw a
great lump in my bed; so I thought it was my clothes. 
'What do you put them there for?' says I.  'Sir,' says he, 'it
looks as if there was a drunken man in the bed.'  'A drunken
man?' says I; 'Take the poker, then, and knock him on the head!'" 

"Knock him on the head?" interrupted Mrs. Schwellenberg, "What!
when it might be some innocent person?  Fie! Colonel Manners.  I
thought you had been too good-natured for such thing--to poker
the people in the king's house!"                                  

"Then what business have they to get into my bed, ma'am?  So then
my man looked nearer, and he said, 'Sir, why, here's your
night-cap and here's the pillow!--and here's a great, large lump
of leather!'  'Shovel it all out!' says I.  'Sir,' says he, 'It's
Madame Schwellenberg's!  here's her name on it.'  'Well, then,'
says I, 'sell it, to-morrow, to the saddler.'"                    

"What! when you knew it was mine, sir? Upon my vord, you been ver
good!" (bowing very low).                                         
"Well, ma'am, it's all Colonel Wellbred, I dare say; so, suppose
you and I were to take the law of him?"                           

"Not I, sir!" (Scornfully).                                       

"Well, but let's write him a letter, then, and frighten him:
let's tell him it's sold, and he must make it good.  You and I'll
do it together."                                                  

"No, sir; you might do it yourself.  I am not so familiar to
write to gentlemens."                                             

"Why then, you shall only sign it, and I'll frank it."            

Here the entrance of some new person stopped the discussion.      

Happy in his success, he began, the next day, a new device: he
made an attack in politics, and said, he did not doubt but Mr.
Hastings would come to be hanged; though, he assured us,
afterwards, he was firmly his friend, and believed no such
thing.(236)                                                       

Even with this not satisfied, he next told her that he had just
heard Mr. Burke was in Windsor.  Mr. Burke is the name            

Page 45                                                           

in the world most obnoxious, both for his Reform bill,(237) which
deeply affected all the household, and for his prosecution of Mr.
Hastings; she therefore declaimed against him very warmly.        

"Should you like to know him, ma'am?" cried he.                  
"Me?--No; not I."                                                 

"Because, I dare say, ma'am, I have interest enough with him to
procure you his acquaintance.  Shall I bring him to the Lodge to
see you?"                                                         

"When you please, sir, you might keep him to yourself!"           

Well, then, he shall come and dine with me,'and after it drink
tea with you."                                                    

"No, no, not I! You might have him all to yourself."              

"but if he comes, you must make his tea."                         

"There is no such 'must,' sir!  I do it for my pleasure--only
when I please, sir!"                                              

At night, when we were separating, he whispered Miss Port that he
had something else in store for the next meeting, when he
intended to introduce magnetising.                                



                        MRS. SCHWELLENBERG's FROGS.

July 2.-What a stare was drawn from our new equerry(238) by Major
Price's gravely asking Mrs. Schwellenberg, after the health of
her frogs?  She answered they were very well, and the major said,
" You must know, Colonel Gwynn, Mrs. Schwellenberg keeps a pair
of frogs,"                                                        

"Of frogs?--pray what do they feed upon?"                         

"Flies, sir," she answered.                                       

"And pray, ma'am, what food have they in winter?"                 

"Nothing other."                                                  

The stare was now still wider.                                    

"But I can make them croak when I will," she added, "when I only
go so to my snuff-box, knock, knock, knock, they croak all what I
please."                                                          

Page 46                                                           

"Very pretty, indeed!" exclaimed Colonel Goldsworthy.             

"I thought to have some spawn," she continued; "but then Maria
Carlton, what you call Lady Doncaster, came and frightened them;
I was never so angry!"                                            

"I am sorry for that," cried the major, very seriously, "for else
I should have begged a pair."                                     

"So you meant, ma'am, to have had a breed of them," cried Colonel
Goldsworthy; "a breed of young frogs? Vastly clever, indeed!;     

Then followed a formal enumeration of their virtues and endearing
little qualities, which made all laugh except the new equerry,
who sat in perfect amaze.                                         

Then, suddenly, she stopped short, and called out, "There! now I
have told you all this, you might tell something to me.  I have
talked enoff; now you might amuse me."                            

July 19.-In the afternoon, while I was working in Mrs.
Schwellenberg's room, Mr. Turbulent entered, to summon Miss
Planta to the princesses; and, in the little while of executing
that simple commission, he made such use of his very ungovernable
and extraordinary eyes, that the moment he was gone, Mrs.
Schwellenberg demanded "for what he looked so at me?"             

I desired to know what she meant.                                
"Why, like when he was so cordial with you? Been you acquainted?" 

"O, yes!" cried I, "I spent three hours twice a-week upon the
road with him and Miss Planta, all the winter; and three or four
dinners and afternoons besides."                                  

"O that's nothing! that's no acquaintance at all.  I have had
people to me, to travel and to dine, fourteen and fifteen years,
and yet they been never so cordial!"                              

This was too unanswerable for reply; but it determined me to try
at some decided measure for restraining or changing looks and
behaviour that excited such comments.  And I thought my safest
way would be fairly and frankly to tell him this very inquiry. 
It might put him upon his guard from such foolishness, without
any more serious effort.                                          
   

July 20.-This evening Mrs. Schwellenberg was not well, and sent
to desire I would receive the gentlemen to tea, and make her
apologies.  I immediately summoned my lively, and lovely young
companion, Miss Port, who hastens at every call with
good-humoured delight.                                            

Page 47                                                           

We had really a pleasant evening, though simply from the absence
of spleen and jealousy, which seemed to renew and invigorate the
spirits of all present: namely, General Bud, Signor del Campo,
and Colonel Gwynn.  They all stayed very late but when they made
their exit, I dismissed my gay assistant and thought it incumbent
on me to show myself upstairs; a reception was awaiting me!--so
grim! But, what O heaven!  how depressing, how cruel, to be
fastened thus on an associate so exigeante, so tyrannical, and so
ill-disposed!                                                     

I feared to blame the equerries for having detained me, as they
were already so much out of favour.  I only, therefore, mentioned
M. del Campo, who, as a foreign minister, might be allowed so
much civility as not to be left to himself: for I was openly
reproached- that I had not quitted them to hasten to her! 
Nothing, however, availed; and after vainly trying to appease
her, I was obliged to go to my own room, to be in attendance for
my royal summons.                                                 

July 21.-I resolved to be very meek and patient, as I do, now and
then, when I am good, and to bear this hard trial of causeless
offence without resentment; and, therefore, I went this afternoon
as soon as I had dined, and sat and worked, and forced
conversation, and did my best, but with very indifferent success;
when, most perversely, who should be again announced -but Mr.
Turbulent.  As I believe the visit was not, just after those
"cordial" looks, supposed to be solely for the lady of the
apartment, his reception was no better than mine had been the
preceding days!  He did not, however, regard it, but began a
talk, in which he made it his business to involve me, by
perpetual reference to my opinion.  This did not much conciliate
matters; and his rebuffs, from time to time, were so little
ceremonious, that nothing but the most confirmed contempt could
have kept off an angry resentment.  I could sometimes scarcely
help laughing at his utterly careless returns to an imperious
haughtiness, vainly meant to abash and distance him.  I took the
earliest moment in my power to quit the room and the reproach
with which he looked at my exit, for leaving him to such a
tte--tte, was quite risible.  He knew he could not, in
decency, run away immediately, to and he seemed ready to commit
some desperate act for having drawn himself into such a
difficulty.  I am always rejoiced when his flights and follies
bring their own punishment.                                       

Page 48                                                           

                          MR. TURBULENT'S ANTICS.

July 25-Mr. Turbulent amused himself this morning with giving me
yet another panic.  He was ordered to attend the queen during her
hair-dressing, as was Mr. de Luc.  I remained in the room the
queen conversed with us all three, as occasions arose, with the
utmost complacency; but this person, instead of fixing there his
sole attention, contrived, by standing behind her chair, and
facing me, to address a language of signs to me the whole time,
casting up his eyes, clasping ],is hands, and placing himself in
various fine attitudes, and all with a humour so burlesque, that
it was impossible to take it either ill or seriously.  Indeed,
when I am on the very point of the most alarmed displeasure with
him, he always falls upon some such ridiculous devices of
affected homage, that I grow ashamed of my anger, and hurry it
over, lest he should perceive it, and attribute it to a
misunderstanding he might think ridiculous in his turn. 

How much should I have been discountenanced had her majesty
turned about and perceived him!

(230) Colonel Greville, called in the "Diary" "Colonel Wellbred,"
one of the king's equerries, whom M. de Guiffardiere ("Mr.
Turbulent") was particularly anxious to introduce to Miss
Burney.-ED.                                                       

(231) I "The Paston Letters" were first published, from the
original manuscripts, in 1787.  They were chiefly written by or
to members of the Paston family in Norfolk during the reigns of
Henry VI., Edward IV., Richard III., and Henry VII.  The letter
above alluded to is No. 91 in the collection.  It is a letter of
good Counsel to his young son, written in a very tender and
religious strain, by the Duke of Suffolk, on the 30th of April,
1450, the day on which he quitted England to undergo his five
years' banishment.  The duke had been impeached of high treason,
and condemned to this term of banishment, through the king's
interposition, to save him from a worse fate.  But his fate was
not to be eluded.  He set sail on the 30th of April, was taken on
the sea by his enemies, and beheaded on the 2nd of May
following.-ED.                                                    

(232) Miss Burney had obtained the tacit consent of the queen
that M. de Guiffardiere should travel occasionally with the
equerries, instead of taking his usual place in the coach
assigned to the keepers of the robes.  Her real motive in making
the application had been a desire to see less of this boisterous
gentleman, but she had put it upon his attachment to Colonel
Greville-ED.                                                      

(233) Benjamin -west, R.A., who succeeded Reynolds as President
of the Royal Academy, on the death of the latter in 1792.  This
mediocre painter was a prodigious favourite with George III., for
whom many of his works were executed.-ED.                    

(234) The Duchess Jules de Polignac, the celebrated favourite of
Marie Antoinette.  She and her husband, who had been raised by
the queen from a condition of positive poverty, were hated in
France, both as Court favourites, and on account of the wealth
which, it was believed, they had taken advantage of their
position to amass.  "Mille 6cus," cried Mirabeau, "A la famille
d'Assas pour avoir sauv6 l'etat; un million a la famille Polignac
pour l'avoir perdu!"                                              

The ostensible object of the duches,'s visit to England was to
drink the Bath Waters, but there are good grounds for believing
that her real purpose was to make an arrangement with M. de la
Motte for the suppression of some scurrilous Memoirs which it was
rumoured his wife had written, and in which, among other things,
Marie Antoinette was accused of being the principal culprit in
the notorious Diamond Necldace fraud.  M. de la Motte states in
his autobiography that he met the Duchess Jules and her
Sister-in-law, the Countess Diane, at the Duchess of Devonshire's
(the beautiful Georgiana), at the request of the latter, when
certain overtures were made to him, and trustworthy authorities
assert that a large sum of money was afterwards paid to the De la
Mottes, to suppress the Memoirs which were however eventually
published.  When the French Revolution broke out the Polignacs
were among the first to emigrate.  The duchess died at Vienna in
December, 1793, a few months after Marie Antoinette had perished
on the scaffold.-ED.                                              

(235) Mrs. Schwellenberg had returned to Windsor the day
before.-ED.                                                       

(236) The storm had been gathering round Hastings ever since his
return to England in June, 1785, within a week of which Burke had
given notice in the House of Commons of a motion affecting the
conduct of the late Governor-General in India.  His impeachment
was voted in May, 1787, and preparations for his trial were now
going actively forward.  We shall find hereafter, in the Diary,
some sketches, from Fanny's point of view, of scenes in this
famous trial, which commenced in February, 1788.-ED.              

(237) This was an old grievance.  In 1780 Burke had introduced a
hill "for the better regulation of his majesty's civil
establishments, and of certain public offices; for the limitation
of pensions, and the suppression of sundry useless, expensive and
inconvenient places; and for applying the monies saved thereby to
the public service."  The bill was defeated at the time, but was
re-introduced with certain alterations, and finally passed both
houses by a large majority in 1782.-ED.                           

(238) Colonel Gwynn who had just arrived at Windsor to succeed
Colonel Manners in the office of equerry in waiting to the King.  
Colonel Gwynn was the husband of Mary Horneck, Goldsmith's
"Jessamy Bride."-ED.                                              




 
Page 49

                               SECTION 11. 
                                 (1787-8.)


              COURT DUTIES: SOME VARIATIONS IN THEIR ROUTINE. 

                        MEETING OF THE TWO PRINCES.

To-day, after a seven years' absence, arrived the Duke of York. 
I saw him alight from his carriage, with an eagerness, a
vivacity, that assured me of the affectionate joy with which he
returned to his country and family.  But the joy of his excellent
father!-O, that there is no describing It was the glee of the
first youth--nay, of ai ardent and innocent infancy,--so pure it
seemed, so warm, so open, so unmixed! Softer joy was the
queen's--mild, equal, and touching while all the princesses were
in one universal rapture.                                         

To have the pleasure of seeing the royal family in this happy
assemblage, I accompanied Miss Port on the Terrace.  It was
indeed an affecting sight to view the general content; but that
of the king went to my very heart, so delighted he looked-so
proud Of his son--so benevolently pleased that every one should
witness his satisfaction.  The Terrace was very full; all Windsor
and its neighbourhood poured in upon it, to see the prince whose
whole demeanour seemed promising to merit his flattering
reception--gay yet grateful--modest, yet unembarrassed......      

Early the next morning arrived the Prince of Wales, who had
travelled all night from Brighthelmstone.  The day was a day Of
complete happiness to the whole of the royal family; the king was
in one transport of delight, unceasing, invariable;               

Page 50                                                           

and though the newly-arrived duke was its source and Support the
kindness of his heart extended and expanded to his eldest' born,
whom he seemed ready again to take to his paternal breast;
indeed, the whole world seemed endeared to him by the happiness
he now felt in it.                                                

Sunday, Aug. 5.-General Grenville brought in the duke this
evening to the tea-room.  I was very much pleased with his
behaviour, which was modest, dignified, and easy.  Might he but
escape the contagion of surrounding examples, he seems promising
of all his fond father expects and merits. . . .                  

Kew, Aug. 7-The next day the now happy family had the delight of
again seeing the two princes in its circle.  They dined 
here; and the Princess Augusta, who came to Mrs. Schwellenberg's
room in the evening, on a message, said, "There never had been so
happy a dinner since the world was created," The king, In the
evening, again drove out the queen and princesses.  The Prince of
Wales, seeing Mr. Smelt in our room (which, at Kew, is in the
front of the house, as well as at Windsor), said he would come in
and ask him how he did.  Accordingly, in he came, and talked to
Mr. Smelt for about a quarter of an hour; his subjects almost
wholly his horses and his rides.  He gave some account of his
expedition to town to meet his brother.  He was just preparing,
at Brighton, to give a supper entertainment to Madame La
Princesse de Lamballe,--when he perceived his courier.  "I dare
say," he cried, "my brother's come!" set off instantly to excuse
himself to the princess, and arrived at Windsor by the time of
early prayers, at eight o'clock the next morning.                 

"To-day, again," he said, "I resolved to be in town to meet my
brother; we determined to dine somewhere together, but had not
settled where; so hither we came.  When I went last to Brighton,
I rode one hundred and thirty miles, and then danced at the
ball,.  I am going back directly; but I shall ride to Windsor
again for the birthday, and shall stay there till my brother's,
and then back on Friday.  We are going now over the way: my
brother wants to see the old mansion."                            

The Prince of Wales's house is exactly opposite to the Lodge      

The duke then came in, and bowed to every one present, very
attentively; and presently after, they went over the way, arm in
arm; and thence returned to town.                                 

I had a long and painful discourse afterwards with Mr. Smelt,
deeply interested in these young princes , upon the many dangers
awaiting the newly-arrived, who seemed alike                      

Page 51                                                           

unfitted and unsuspicious for encountering them.  Mr. Smelt's
heart ached as if he had been their parent, and the regard
springing from his early and long care of them seemed all revived
in his hopes and fears of what might ensue from this reunion.     

I rejoiced at the public reconciliation with the Prince of Wales,
which had taken place during my illness, and which gave the
greater reason for hope that there might not now be a division!   


                        BUNBURY, THE CARICATURIST.

Windsor, Aug. 14.-General Bud came in, with two strangers, whom
he introduced to us by the names of Bunbury and Crawfurd.  I was
very curious to know if this was the Bunbury;(239) and I
conjectured it could be no other.  When Colonel Gwynn joined us,
he proposed anew the introduction; but nothing passed to
ascertain my surmise.  The conversation was general And
good-humoured, but without anything striking, or bespeaking
character or genius.  Almost the whole consisted of inquiries
what to do, whither to go, and how to proceed; which, though
natural and sensible for a new man, were undistinguished by any
humour, or keenness of expression or manner.                      

Mr. Crawfurd spoke not a word.  He is a very handsome young man,
just appointed equerry to the Duke of York.                       

I whispered my inquiry to Colonel Gwynn as soon as I found an
opportunity, and heard, "Yes,--'tis Harry Bunbury, sure enough!"  

So now we may all be caricatured at his leisure!  He is made
another of the equerries to the Duke.  A man with such a turn,
and with talents so inimitable in displaying it, was rather a
dangerous character to be brought within a Court!                 

Aug. 15.-My sole conversation this evening was with Mr.
Bunbury, who drew a chair next mine, and chatted incessantly,
with great good humour, and an avidity to discuss the subjects he
started, which were all concerning plays and Players.             

Presently the voice of the Duke of York was heard, calling aloud
for Colonel Goldsworthy.  Off he ran.  Mr. Bunbury laughed, but
declared he would not take the hint: "What," cried
 he, "if I lose the beginning?(240)--I think I know it pretty     

Page 52                

well by heart'-'Why did I marry' '"--And then he began to spout,
and act, and rattle away, with all his might,-till the same voice
called out "Bunbury !--you'll be too late!"--And off he flew,
leaving his tea untasted--so eager had he been in discourse.      



          MRS. SIDDONS PROVES DISAPPOINTING ON NEAR ACQUAINTANCE. 
Wednesday, Aug. 15.-Mrs. Schwellenberg's illness occasioned my
attending the queen alone; and when my official business was
ended, she graciously detained me, to read to me a new paper
called "Olla Podrida," which is now Publishing periodically. 
Nothing very bright--nothing very deficient.                      

In the afternoon, while I was drinking coffee with Mrs.
Schwellenberg,--or, rather, looking at it, since I rarely,
swallow any,--her majesty came Into the room, and soon after a
little German discourse with Mrs. Schwellenberg told me Mrs.
Siddons had been ordered to the Lodge, to read a play, and
desired I would receive her in my room                            

I felt a little queer in the office ; I had only seen her twice
or thrice, in large assemblies, at Miss Monckton's, and at Sir
Joshua Reynolds's, and never had been introduced to her, nor
spoken with her.  However, in this dead and tame life I now lead,
such an interview was by no means undesirable.                    

I had just got to the bottom of the stairs, when she entered the
passage gallery.  I took her into the tea-room, and endeavoured
to make amends for former distance and taciturnity, by an open
and cheerful reception.  I had heard from sundry people (in old
days) that she wished to make the acquaintance; but I thought it
then one of too conspicuous a sort for the quietness I had so
much difficulty to preserve in my ever increasing connections. 
Here all was changed; I received her by the queen's commands, and
was perfectly well inclined to reap some pleasure from the
meeting.                                                          

But, now that we came so near, I was much disappointed in my
expectations.  I know not if my dear Fredy has met with her in
private, but I fancy approximation is not highly in her favour. 
I found her the heroine of a tragedy,--sublime, elevated, and
solemn.  In face and person truly noble and commanding; in
manners quiet and stiff; in voice deep and dragging; and in
conversation, formal, sententious, calm, and                      

Page 53                                                           

dry.  I expected her to have been all that is interesting; the  
delicacy and sweetness with which she seizes every opportunity to
strike and to captivate upon the stage had persuaded me that her
mind was formed with       that peculiar susceptibility which, in
different modes, must give equal powers to attract and to delight
in common life.  But I was very much mistaken.  As a stranger I
must have admired her noble appearance and beautiful countenance,
and have regretted that nothing in her conversation kept pace
with their promise         and, as a celebrated actress I had
still only to do the same. 

Whether fame and success have spoiled her, or whether she only
possesses the skill of representing and embellishing materials
with which she is furnished by others, I know not but still I
remain disappointed. 

She was scarcely seated, and a little general discourse begun,
before she told me--at once--that "There was no part she had ever
so much wished to act as that of Cecilia." 

I made some little acknowledgment, and hurried to ask when she
had seen Sir Joshua Reynolds, Miss Palmer, and others with whom I
knew her acquainted. 

The play she was to read was "The Provoked Husband."  She
appeared neither alarmed nor elated by her summons, but calmly to
look upon it as a thing of course, from her celebrity. 

I should very much have liked to have heard her read the play,
but my dearest Mrs. Delany spent the whole evening with me, and I
could therefore take no measures for finding out a convenient
adjoining room.  Mrs. Schwellenberg, I heard afterwards, was so
accommodated, though not well enough for the tea-table. 

                                     
MR. FAIRLY'S BEREAVEMENT.

Aug. 23.-At St. James's I read in the newspapers a paragraph that
touched me much for the very amiable Mr. Fairly: it was the death
of his wife, which happened on the Duke of York's birth-day, the
16th.(242)  Mr. Fairly has devoted his whole time, strength,
thoughts, and cares solely          to nursing and attending her
during a long and most painful illness which she sustained.  They
speak of her here as being amiable, but so 

Page 54                                                           

cold and reserved, that she was little known, and by no means in
equal favour with her husband, who stands, upon the whole the
highest in general esteem and regard of any individual of the
household.  I find every mouth open to praise and pity, love and
honour him.                                                       


                        TROUBLESOME MR. TURBULENT.

Upon returning to Kew, I had a scene for which I was little
enough, indeed, prepared, though willing, and indeed, earnest to
satisfy Mr. Turbulent, I wished him to make an alteration of
behaviour.  After hastily changing my dress, I went, as usual, to
the parlour, to be ready for dinner; but found there no Mrs.
Schwellenberg; she was again unwell; Miss Planta was not ready,
and Mr. Turbulent was reading by himself.                         

Away he flung his book in a moment, and hastening to shut the
door lest I should retreat, he rather charged than desired me to
explain my late "chilling demeanour."                             

Almost startled by his apparent entire ignorance of deserving it,
I found an awkwardness I had not foreseen in making myself
understood.  I wished him rather to feel than be told the
improprieties I meant to obviate - and I did what was possible by
half evasive, half expressive answers, to call back his own
recollection and consciousness.  In vain, however, was the
attempt; he protested himself wholly innocent, and that he would
rather make an end of his existence than give me offence.         

He saw not these very protestations were again doing it, and he
grew so vehement in his defence, and so reproachful in his
accusation of unjust usage, that I was soon totally in a
perplexity how to extricate myself from a difficulty I had
regarded simply as his own.  The moment he saw I grew
embarrassed, he redoubled his challenges to know the cause of my
"ill-treatment."  I assured him, then, I could never reckon
silence ill-treatment.                                            

"Yes," he cried, "yes, from you it is ill-treatment, and it has
given me the most serious uneasiness."                           
"I am sorry," I said, "for that, and did not mean it."            

"Not mean it?" cried be.  "Could you imagine I should miss your
conversation, your ease, your pleasantness, your gaiety, and take
no notice of the loss?"                                           

Then followed a most violent flow of compliments, ending with a
fresh demand for an explanation, made with an energy              

Page 55                                                           

that, to own the truth, once more quite frightened me.  I
endeavoured to appease him, by general promises of becoming more
voluble - and I quite languished to say to him the truth at once;
that his sport, his spirit, and his society would all be
acceptable to me, would he but divest them of that redundance of
-gallantry which rendered them offensive : but I could only think
how to say this--I could not bring it out.                        

This promised volubility, though it softened him, he seemed to
receive as a sort of acknowledgment that I owed him some
reparation for the disturbance I had caused him.  I stared enough
at such an interpretation, which I could by no means allow; but
no sooner did I disclaim it than all his violence was resumed,
and he urged me to give in my charge against him with an
impetuosity that almost made me tremble.                          

I made as little answer as possible, finding everything I said
seemed but the more to inflame his violent spirit; but his
emotion was such, and the cause so inadequate, and my uncertainty
so unpleasant what to think of him altogether, that I was seized
with sensations so nervous, I Could almost have cried.  In the
full torrent of his offended justification against my displeasure
towards him, he perceived my increasing distress how to proceed,
and, suddenly stopping, exclaimed in quite another tone, "Now,
then, ma'am, I see your justice returning; you feel that you have
used me very ill!"                                                

To my great relief entered Miss Planta.  He contrived to say,
"Remember, you promise to explain all this."                      

I made him no sort of answer, and though he frequently, in the
course of the evening, repeated, "I depend upon your promise! I
build upon a conference," I sent his dependence and his building
to Coventry, by not seeming to hear him.                          

I determined, however, to avoid all tte--ttes with him
whatsoever, as much as was in my power.  How very few people are
fit for them, nobody living in trios and quartettos can imagine!  


                            A CONCEITED PARSON.

Windsor.-Who should find me out now but Dr. Shepherd.(243)  He is
here as canon, and was in residence.  He told me he had long
wished to come, but had never been able to find the               

Page 56                                                           

way of entrance before.  He made me an immense length of visit,
and related to me all the exploits of his life,-so far as they
were prosperous.  In no farce did a man ever more floridly open
upon his own perfections.  He assured me I should be delighted to
know the whole of his life; it was equal to anything; and
everything he had was got by his own address and ingenuity.       

"I could tell the king," cried he, "more than all the chapter.  I
want to talk to him, but he always gets out of my way; he does
not know me; he takes me for a mere common person, like the rest
of the canons here, and thinks of me no more than if I were only
fit for the cassock;--a mere Scotch priest!  Bless 'em!--they
know nothing about me.  You have no conception what things I have
done! And I want to tell 'em all this;--It's fitter for them to
hear than what comes to their ears.  What I want is for somebody
to tell them what I am."                                          

They know it already, thought I.                                  

Then, when he had exhausted this general panegyric, he descended
to some few particulars; especially dilating upon his preaching,
and applying to me for attesting its excellence.                  

"I shall make one sermon every year, precisely for you!" he
cried; "I think I know what will please you.  That on the
creation last Sunday was just to your taste.  You shall have such
another next residence.  I think I preach in the right tone--not
too slow, like that poor wretch Grape, nor too fast like Davis
and the rest of 'em; but yet fast enough never to tire them. 
That's just my idea of good preaching."                           

Then he told me what excellent apartments he had here and how
much he should like my opinion in fitting them up.                


                     MR. TURBULENT BECOMES A NUISANCE.

Aug.30.-Mrs. Schwellenberg invited Mr. Turbulent to dinner, for
she said he had a large correspondence, and might amuse her.  He
came early; and finding nobody in the eating-parlour, begged to
wait in mine till Mrs. Schwellenberg came downstairs.  This was
the last thing I wished; but he required no answer, and instantly
resumed the Kew discussion, entreating me to tell him what he had
done.  I desired him to desist--in vain, he affirmed I had
promised him an explanation, and he had therefore a right to it.  

"You fully mistook me, then," cried I, "for I meant no           
Page 57                                                           

such thing then; I mean no such thing now; and I never shall mean
any such thing in future.  Is this explicit?  I think it best to
tell you so at once, that you may expect nothing more, but give
over the subject, and talk of something else.  What is the news?" 
   
"I'll talk of nothing else!--it distracts me;--pray No, no, tell
Me!--I call upon your good-nature!"                               

"I have none--about this! "                                       

"Upon your goodness of heart!"                                    

"'Tis all hardness here!"                                         

"I will cast myself at your feet,--I will kneel to you!"  And he
was preparing his immense person for prostration, when Goter(244)
opened the door.  Such an interruption to his heroics made me
laugh heartily; nor could he help joining himself; though the
moment she was gone he renewed his importunity with unabated
earnestness.                                                      

"I remember," he cried, "it was upon the Terrace you first shewed
me this disdain; and there, too, you have shown it me repeatedly
since, with public superciliousness. . . .  You well know you
have treated me ill,--you know and have acknowledged it!"         

"And when?" cried I, amazed and provoked; "when did I do what
could never be done?"                                             

"At Kew, ma'am, you were full of concern--full of remorse for the
treatment you had given me!--and you owned it!"                   

"Good heaven, Mr.  Turbulent, what can induce you to say this?"   

"Is it not true?"                                                 

"Not a word of it! You know it is not!"                           

"Indeed," cried he, "I really and truly thought so--hoped so;--I
believed you looked as if you felt your own ill-usage,- and it
gave to me a delight inexpressible!"                              

This was almost enough to bring back the very same supercilious
Distance of which he complained; but, in dread of fresh
explanations, I forbore to notice this flight, and only told him
he might be perfectly satisfied, since I no longer Persevered in
the taciturnity to which he objected.                             

"But how," cried he, "do you give up, without deigning to assign
one reason for It"?                                               

"The greater the compliment!"  cried I, laughing; "I give up to
your request."                                                    

"Yes, ma'am, upon my speaking,-but why did you keep Me so long in
that painful suspense?"                                           

Page 58                                                           

"Nay," cried I, "could I well be quicker? Till you spoke could I
know if you heeded it?"                                           

"Ah, ma'am--is there no language but of words?  Do you pretend to
think there is no other?'--Must I teach it you,,--teach it to
Miss Burney who speaks, who
understands it so well?--who is never silent, and never can b
silent?"                                                          

And then came his heroic old homage to the poor eyebrows
vehemently finishing with, "Do you, can you affect to know no
language but speech?"                                             

" Not," cried I, coolly, " without the trouble of more
investigation than I had taken here."                             

He called this "contempt," and, exceedingly irritated, de sired
me, once more, to explain, from beginning to end, how he had ever
offended me.                                                      

"Mr. Turbulent," cried I, "will you be satisfied if I tell you it
shall all blow over?"                                             

"Make me a vow, then, you will never more, never while you live,
resume that proud taciturnity."                                   

"No, no,--certainly not; I never make vows; it is a rule with me
to avoid them."                                                   

"Give me, then, your promise,--your solemn promise,--at least I
may claim that?"                                                  

"I have the same peculiarity about promises; I never make them."  

He was again beginning to storm, but again I assured him I would
let the acquaintance take its old course, if he would but be
appeased, and say no more; and, after difficulties innumerable,
he at length gave up the point: but to this he was hastened, if
not driven, by a summons to dinner.                               


                       DR. HERSCHEL AND HIS SISTER.

Sept.-Dr. Herschel is a delightful man; so unassuming with his
great knowledge, so willing to dispense it to the ignorant, and
so cheerful and easy in his general manners, that were he no 
genius it would be impossible not to remark him as a pleasing and
sensible man.  I was equally pleased with his sister, whom I had
wished to see very much, for her great celebrity in her brother's
science.  She is very little, very gentle, very modest, and very
ingenious; and her manners are those of a person unhackneyed and
unawed by the world, yet desirous to meet                         

Page 59                                                           

and to return its smiles.  I love not the philosophy that braves
it.  This brother and sister seem gratified with its favour, at
the same time that their own pursuit is all-sufficient to them
without it.                                                       

I inquired of Miss Herschel if she was still comet-hunting, or
content now with the moon?  The brother answered that he had the
charge of the moon, but he left to his sister to sweep the
heavens for comets.                                               

Their manner of working together is most ingenious and curious. 
While he makes his observations without-doors, he has a method of
communicating them to his sister so immediately, that she can
instantly commit them to paper, with the precise moment in which
they are made.  By this means he loses not a minute, when there
is anything particularly worth observing, by writing it down, but
can still proceed, yet still have his accounts and calculations
exact.  The methods he has contrived to facilitate this commerce
I have not the terms to explain, though his simple manner of
showing them made me, fully, at the time, comprehend them.        

The night, unfortunately, was dark, and I could not see the moon
with the famous new telescope.  I mean not the great telescope
through which I had taken a walk, for that is still incomplete,
but another of uncommon powers.  I saw Saturn, however, and his
satellites, very distinctly, and their appearance was very
beautiful.                                                        


                     GAY AND ENTERTAINING MR. BUNBURY.

Sept.-I saw a great deal of Mr. Bunbury in the course of this
month, as he was in waiting upon the Duke of York, who spent
great part of it at Windsor, to the inexpressible delight of his
almost idolising father.  Mr. Bunbury did not open upon me with
that mildness and urbanity that might lead me to forget the
strokes of his pencil, and power of his caricature: he early
avowed a general disposition to laugh at, censure, or despise all
around him.  He began talking of everybody and everything about
us, with the decisive freedom of a confirmed old intimacy.        

"I am in disgrace here, already!" he cried almost exultingly.     

"In disgrace?" I repeated.                                        

"Yes,--for not riding out this morning!--I was asked--what Could
I have better to do?--Ha! ha!"                                    

The next time that I saw him after your departure from            

Page 60                                                           

Windsor,(245) he talked a great deal of painting and painters,
and then said, "The draftsman of whom I think the most highly of
any in the world was in this room the other day, and I did not
know it, and was not introduced to him!"                          

I immediately assured him I never held the honours of the room
when its right mistress was in it, but that I would certainly
have named them to each other had I known he desired it.         
"O, yes,"' cried he, "of all things I wished to know him.  He
draws like the old masters.  I have seen fragments in the style
of many of the very best and first productions of the greatest
artists of former times.  He could deceive the most critical
judge.  I wish greatly for a sight of his works, and for the
possession of one of them, to add to my collection, as I have
something from almost everybody else and a small sketch of his I
should esteem a greater curiosity than all the rest put
together."(246)                                                   

Moved by the justness of' this praise, I            fetched him
the sweet little cadeaux so lately left me by Mr. William's
kindness.  He was very much     pleased, and perhaps thought I
might bestow them.  O, no--not one stroke of that pencil could I
relinquish!                                                       

Another     evening  he gave us the history, of his way of life
at Brighthelmstone.  He spoke highly of the duke, but with much
satire of all   else, and that incautiously, and evidently with
an innate defiance of consequences, from a consciousness of
secret powers to overawe their hurting him.                       

Notwithstanding      the general reverence I pay to extraordinary
talents, which lead  me to think it even a species of
impertinence to dwell upon small failings in their rare
possessors, Mr. Bunbury did not gain my good-will.  His serious
manner is supercilious and haughty, and his easy conversation
wants rectitude in its principles.  For the rest, he is
entertaining and gay, full of talk, sociable, willing to enjoy
what is going forward, and ready to speak his opinion with
perfect unreserve.                                                

Plays and players seem his darling theme; he can rave about them
from morning to night, and yet be ready to rave again when
morning returns,         He acts as he talks, spouts as           

Page 61                                                           

he recollects, and seems to give his whole soul to dramatic
feeling and expression.  This is not, however, his only subject 
Love and romance are equally clear to his discourse, though they
cannot be introduced with equal frequency.  Upon these topics he
loses himself wholly--he runs into rhapsodies that discredit him
at once as a father, a husband, and a moral man.  He asserts that
love Is the first principle of life, and should take place of
every other; holds all bonds and obligations as nugatory that
would claim a preference; and advances such doctrines of exalted
sensations in the tender passion as made me tremble while I heard
them.                                                             

He adores Werter, and would scarce believe I had not read it-
-still less that I had begun It and left it off, from distaste at
its evident tendency.  I saw myself sink instantly in his
estimation, though till this little avowal I had appeared to
Stand in it very honourably.                                      



                   THE PRINCE OF WALES AT WINDSOR AGAIN.

One evening, while I was sitting with Mrs. Delany, and her fair
niece, when tea was over, and the gentlemen all withdrawn, the
door was Opened, and a star entered, that I perceived presently
to be the Prince of Wales.  He was here to hunt with his royal
father and brother.  With great politeness he made me his first
bow, and then advancing to Mrs. Delany, insisted, very
considerately, on her sitting still, though he stood himself for
half an hour--all the time he stayed.  He entered into discourse
very good-humouredly, and with much vivacity; described to her
his villa at Brighthelmstone, told several anecdotes of
adventures there, and seemed desirous to entertain both her and
myself  . . . . .                                                 

NOV. 8.-At near one o'clock in the morning, while the wardrobe
woman was pinning up the queen's hair, there was a sudden rap-tap
at the dressing-room door.  Extremely surprised, I looked at the
queen, to see what should be done; she did not speak.  I had 
never heard such a sound before, for at the royal doors there  
Is always a peculiar kind of scratch used, instead of tapping.  I
heard it, however, again,--and the queen called out, "What  is
that?" I Was really startled, not conceiving who could take so
strange a liberty as to come to the queen's apartment without the
announcing of a page - and no page, I was very sure, would make
such a noise.                                                    
Page 62                                                           

Again the sound was repeated, and more smartly.  I grew quite
alarmed, imagining some serious evil at hand--either regarding
the king or some of the princesses.  The queen, however, bid me
open the door.  I did--but what was MY surprise to see there a
large man, in an immense wrapping great coat, buttoned up round
his chin, so that he was almost hid between cape and hat!         

I stood quite motionless for a moment--but he, as if also
surprised, drew back; I felt quite sick with sudden terror--I
really thought some ruffian had broke into the house, or a
madman.                                                           

"Who is it?" cried the queen.                                     

"I do not know, ma'am," I answered.                               

"Who is it?" she called aloud; and then, taking off his hat,
entered the Prince of Wales!                                      

The queen laughed very much, so did I too, happy in this
unexpected explanation.                                           

He told her, eagerly, he merely came to inform her there were the
most beautiful northern lights to be seen that could possibly be
imagined, and begged her to come to the gallery windows.          


                FALSE RUMOURS OF Miss BURNEY'S RESIGNATION. 
Wednesday, Sept. 14--We went to town for the drawing-room, and I
caught a most severe cold, by being oblige to have the glass down
on my side, to suit Mrs. Schwellenberg, though the sharpest wind
blew in that ever attacked a poor phiz.  However, these are the
sort of desagremens I can always best bear; and for the rest, I
have now pretty constant civility.                                

My dear father drank tea with me - but told me of a paragraph in
"The World," that gave me some uneasiness; to this effect:--"We
hear that Miss Burney has resigned her place about the queen, and
is now promoted to attend the princesses, an office far more
suited to her character and abilities, which will now be called
forth as they merit."--Or to that purpose.  As "The World" is not
taken in here, I flattered myself it would not be known; for I
knew how little pleasure such a paragraph would give, and was
very sorry for it.                                                

The next day, at St. James's, Miss Planta desired to speak to me,
before the queen arrived.  She acquainted me Of the same "news,"
and said, "Everybody spoke of it;" and the queen might receive
twenty letters of recommend, to                                   

Page 63                                                           


my place before night.  Still I could only be sorry.  Another
paragraph had now appeared, she told me, contradicting the first,
and saying, "The resignation of Miss Burney is premature; it only
arose from an idea of the service the education of the princesses
might reap from her virtues and accomplishments."                 

I was really concerned - conscious how little gratified my royal
mistress would be by the whole :-and, presently, Miss Planta came
to me again, and told me that the princesses had mentioned it! 
They never read any newspapers; but they had heard of it from the
Duke of York.                                                  
I observed the queen was most particularly gracious with me,
softer, gentler, more complacent than ever; and, while dressing,
she dismissed her wardrobe-woman, and, looking at me very
steadfastly, said, "Miss Burney, do you ever read newspapers?"    

"Sometimes," I answered, "but not often: however.  I believe I
know what your majesty means!"                                    

I could say no less; I was so sure of her meaning.                

"Do you?" she cried.                                              

"Yes, ma'am, and I have been very much hurt by it: that is, if
your majesty means anything relative to myself?"                  

"I do!" she answered, still looking at me with earnestness.       
"My father, ma'am," cried I, "told me of it last night, with a
good deal of indignation."                                        

"I," cried she, "did not see it myself: you know how little I
read the newspapers."                                             

"Indeed," cried I, "as it was in a paper not taken in here, I
hoped it would quite have escaped your majesty."                  

".So it did: I only heard of it."                                 

I looked a little curious, and she kindly explained herself.      

"When the Duke of York came yesterday to dinner, he said almost
immediately, 'Pray, ma'am, what has Miss Burney left You for?' 
'Left me?'  'Yes, they say she's gone; pray what's the reason?'
'Gone?'  'Yes, it's at full length in all the newspapers: is not
she gone?'  'Not that I know of.'"                                

"All the newspapers" was undoubtedly a little flourish of the
duke; but we jointly censured and lamented the unbridled liberty
of the press, in thus inventing, contradicting, and bringing on
and putting off, whatever they pleased.                           

I saw, however, she had really been staggered: she concluded, I
fancy, that the paragraph arose from some latent Muse, which
might end in matter of fact; for she talked to me of Mrs.
Dickenson, and of all that related to her retreat, and            

Page 64                                                           

dwelt upon the    subject with a sort of solicitude that seemed
apprehensive--if I may here use such a word-of a similar action.  
It appeared to me that she rather expected some further assurance
on my part that no such view or intention had given rise to this
pretended report; and therefore, when I had again the honour of
her conversation alone, I renewed the subject, and mentioned that
my father had had some thoughts of  contradicting the paragraph
himself. 

"And has he done it ? " cried she quite eagerly.

"No, ma'am; for, upon further consideration, he feared it might
only excite fresh paragraphs, and that the whole would sooner
die, if neglected." 

"So," said she, "I have been told; for, some years ago,  there
was a paragraph in the papers I wanted myself to have had
contradicted, but they acquainted me it was best to be patient,
and it would be forgot the sooner." 

"This, however, ma'am, has been contradicted this morning."  
"By your father?" cried she, again speaking eagerly. 

"No, ma'am; I know not by whom."

She then asked how it was done. This was very distressing but I
was forced to repeat It as well as I could, reddening enough,
though omitting, you may believe, the worst. 

just then there happened an interruption; which was vexatious, as
it prevented a concluding speech, disclaiming all thoughts of
resignation, which I saw was really now become necessary for the
queen's satisfaction;  and since it was true--why not say it?  
And, accordingly, the next day, when she was most excessively
kind to me, I seized an opportunity, by attending her through the
apartments to the breakfast-room, to beg, permission to speak to
her. It was smilingly granted me. 

"I have now, ma'am, read both the paragraphs." 

"Well?" with a look of much curiosity. 

"And indeed I thought them both very impertinent.          They
say that the idea arose from a notion of my being promoted to a
place about the princesses!" 

"I have not seen either of the paragraphs," she answered, "but
the Prince of Wales told me of the second yesterday." 

"They little know me, ma'am," I cried, "who think I should regard
any other place as a promotion that removed me from your
majesty." 
Page 65                                                           

"I did not take it ill, I assure you," cried she, gently.         

"Indeed, ma'am, I am far from having a wish for any such
promotion--far from it! your majesty does not bestow a smile upon
me that does not secure and confirm my attachment."               

one of her best smiles followed this, with a very condescending
little bow, and the words, "You are very good," uttered in a most
gentle Voice; and she went on to her breakfast.                   

I am most glad this complete explanation passed.  Indeed it is
most true I would not willingly quit a place about the queen for
any place; and I was glad to mark that her smiles were to me the
whole estimate of its value.                                      

This little matter has proved, in the end, very gratifying to me
for it has made clear beyond all doubt her desire of retaining
me, and a considerably increased degree of attention and
complacency have most flatteringly shown a wish I should be
retained by attachment.                                           


                      TYRANNICAL MRS. SCHWELLENBERG.

Nov. 27-I had a terrible journey indeed to town, Mrs.
Schwellenberg finding it expedient to have the glass down on my
side, whence there blew in a sharp wind, which so painfully
attacked my eyes that they were inflamed even before we -arrived
in town.                                                          

Mr. de Luc and Miss Planta both looked uneasy, but no one durst
speak; and for me, it was among the evils that I can always best
bear yet before the evening I grew so ill that I could not
propose going to Chelsea, lest I should be utterly unfitted for
Thursday's drawing-room.                                          

The next day, however, I received a consolation that has been
some ease to my mind ever since.  My dear father spent the
evening with me, and was so incensed at the state of my eyes,
which were now as piteous to behold as to feel, and at the
relation of their usage, that he charged me, another time, to
draw up my 'glass in defiance of all opposition, and to abide by
all consequences, since my place was wholly immaterial when put
in competition with my health.                                    

I was truly glad of this permission to rebel, and it has given Me
an internal hardiness in all similar assaults, that has at least
relieved my mind from the terror of giving mortal offence where
most I owe implicit obedience, should provocation overpower my
capacity of forbearance.                                          

When we assembled to return to Windsor, Mr. de Luc was            

Page 66                                                           

in real consternation at sight of my eyes; and I saw an indignant
glance at my coadjutrix, that could scarce content itself without
being understood.  Miss Planta ventured not at such a glance, but
a whisper broke out, as we were descending the stairs, expressive
of horror against the same poor person--poor person indeed--to
exercise a power productive only of abhorrence, to those who view
as well as to those who feel it!                                  

Some business of Mrs. Schwellenberg's occasioned a delay of the
journey, and we all retreated back; and when I returned to my
room, Miller, the old head housemaid, came to me, with a little
neat tin saucepan in her hand, saying, "Pray, ma'am, use this for
your eyes; 'tis milk and butter, much as I used to make for
Madame Haggerdorn when she travelled in the winter with Mrs.
Schwellenberg."                                                   

Good heaven! I really shuddered when she added, that all that
poor woman's misfortunes with her eyes, which, from inflammation
after inflammation, grew nearly blind, were attributed by herself
to these journeys, in which she was forced to have the glass down
at her side in all weathers, and frequently the glasses behind
her also! Upo n my word this account of my predecessor was the
least exhilarating intelligence I could receive!  Goter told me,
afterwards, that all the servants in the house had remarked I was
going just the same way!                                          

Miss Planta presently ran into my room, to say she had hopes we
should travel without this amiable being; and she had left me but
a moment when Mrs. Stainforth succeeded her, exclaiming, "O, for
heaven's sake, don't leave her behind; for heaven's sake, Miss
Burney, take her with you!"                                       

'Twas impossible not to laugh at these opposite' interests, both,
from agony of fear, breaking through all restraint.  Soon after,
however, we all assembled again, and got into the coach.  Mr.' de
Luc, who was my vis-`a-vis, instantly pulled up the glass.        

"Put down that glass!" was the immediate order.                   

He affected not to hear her, and began conversing.  She enraged
quite tremendously, calling aloud to be obeyed without delay.  He
looked compassionately at me, and shrugged his shoulders, and
said, "But, ma'am-"    

"Do it, Mr. de Luc, when I tell you!  I will have it!  When you
been too cold, you might bear it!"                                

""It is not for me, ma'am, but poor Miss Burney."                 

"O, poor Miss Burney might bear it the same! put it down, Mr. de
Luc!  without, I will get out! put it down, when I tell           

Page 67                                                           

you!  It is my coach!  I will have it selfs!  I might go alone in
it, or with one, or with what you call nobody, when I please!"    

Frightened for good Mr. de Luc, and the more for being much
obliged to him, I now interfered, and begged him to let down the
glass.  Very reluctantly he complied, and I leant back in the
coach, and held up my muff to my eyes.  What a journey ensued!   
To see that face when lighted up with fury is a sight for horror! 
I was glad to exclude it by my muff.                              

Miss Planta alone attempted to speak.  I did not think it
incumbent on me to "make the agreeable," thus used; I was
therefore wholly dumb : for not a word, not an apology, not one
expression of being sorry for what I suffered, was uttered.  The
most horrible ill-humour, violence, and rudeness, were all that
were shown.  Mr. de Luc was too much provoked to take his usual
method of passing all off by constant talk and as I had never
seen him venture to appear provoked before, I felt a great
obligation to his kindness.  When we were about half way, we
stopped to water the horses.  He then again pulled up the glass,
as if from absence.  A voice of fury exclaimed, "Let it down!
without I won't go!"                                              

"I am sure," cried he, "all Mrs. de Luc's plants will be killed
by this frost For the frost was very severe indeed.               

Then he proposed my changing places with Miss Planta, who sat
opposite Mrs. Schwellenberg, and consequently on the sheltered
side.  "Yes!" cried Mrs. Schwellenberg, "MISS Burney might sit
there, and so she ought!"                                         

I told her, briefly, I was always sick in riding backwards.       

"O, ver well! when you don't like it, don't do it.  You might
bear it when you like it? what did the poor Haggerdorn bear it!
when the blood was all running down from her eyes!"               

This was too much!  "I must take, then," I cried, "the more
warning!" After that I spoke not a word.  I ruminated all the
rest of the way upon my dear father's recent charge and
permission.  I was upon the point continually of availing myself
of both, but alas! I felt the deep disappointment I should give
him, and I felt the most cruel repugnance to owe a resignation to
a quarrel.                                                        

These reflections powerfully forbade the rebellion to which this
unequalled arrogance and cruelty excited me; and after revolving
them again and again, I----accepted a bit of cake which she
suddenly offered me as we reached Windsor, and                    

Page 68                                                           

determined, since I submitted to my monastic destiny from motives
my serious thoughts deemed right, I would not be prompted to
oppose it from mere feelings of resentment to one who, strictly,
merited only contempt. . . .                                      

I gulped as well as I could at dinner; but all civil fits are
again over.  Not a word was said to me: yet I was really very ill
all the afternoon; the cold had seized my elbows, from holding
them up so long, and I was stiff and chilled all over.            

In the evening, however, came my soothing Mrs. Delany.  Sweet
soul ! she folded me in her arms, and wept over my shoulder!  Too
angry to stand upon ceremony she told Mrs. Schwellenberg, after
our public tea, she must retire to my room, that she might speak
with me alone.  This was highly resented, and I was threatened,
afterwards, that she would come to tea no more, and we might talk
our secrets always.                                               

Mr. de Luc called upon me next morning, and openly avowed his
indignation, protesting it was an oppression he could not bear to
see used, and reproving me for checking him when he would have
run all risks.  I thanked him most cordially; but assured him the
worst of all inflammations to me was that of a quarrel, and I
entreated him, therefore, not to interfere.  But we have been
cordial friends from that time forward.                           

Miss Planta also called, kindly bringing me some eye-water, and
telling me she had "Never so longed to beat anybody in her life;
and yet, I assure you," she added, "everybody remarks that she
behaves, altogether, better to you than to any body!"             

O heavens!                                                        



                   MRS. SCHWELLENBERG'S CAPRICIOUSNESS.

Saturday, Dec. 1.-'Tis strange that two feelings so very opposite
as love and resentment should have nearly equal power in
inspiring courage for or against the object that excites them yet
so it is.  In former times I have often, on various occasions,
felt it raised to anything possible, by affection, and now I have
found it mount to the boldest height, by disdain For, be it
known, such gross and harsh usage I experienced at the end of
last month, since the inflammation of the eyes which I bore much
more composedly than sundry personal indignities that followed,
that I resolved upon a new mode of                                

Page 69                                                           

conduct--namely, to go out every evening, in Order to show that I
by no means considered myself as bound to stay at home after
dinner, if treated very ill; and this most courageous plan I
flattered myself must needs either procure me a liberty of
absence, always so much wished, or occasion a change of behaviour
to more decency and endurability.  I had received for to-day an
invitation to meet Lady Bute and Lady Louisa Stuart at my dearest
Mrs. Delany's, and I should have wished it at all times, so much
I like them both.  I had no opportunity to speak first to my
royal mistress, but I went to her at noon, rather more dressed
than usual, and when I saw her look a little surprised, I
explained my reason.  She seemed very well satisfied with it, but
my coadjutrix appeared in an astonishment unequalled, and at
dinner, when we necessarily met again, new testimonies of conduct
quite without example were exhibited: for when Mrs. Thackeray and
Miss Planta were helped, she helped herself, and appeared
publicly to send me to Coventry--though the sole provocation was
intending to forego her society this evening!                     

I sat quiet and unhelped a few minutes, considering what to do:
for so little was my appetite, I was almost tempted to go without
dinner entirely.  However, upon further reflection, I concluded
it would but harden her heart still more to have this fresh
affront so borne, and so related, as it must have been, through
Windsor, and therefore I calmly begged some greens from Miss
Planta.                                                           

The weakness of my eyes, which still would not bear the light,
prevented me from tasting animal food all this time.              

A little ashamed, she then anticipated Miss Planta's assistance,
by offering me some French beans.  To curb my own displeasure, I
obliged myself to accept them.  Unfortunately, however, this
little softening was presently worn out, by some speeches which
it encouraged from Mrs. Thackeray, who seemed to seize the moment
of permission to acknowledge that I was in the room, by telling
me she had lately met some of my friends in town, among whom Mrs.
Chapone and the Burrows family had charged her with a thousand
regrets for My Seclusion from their society, and as many kind
compliments and good wishes.                                      

This again sent me to Coventry for the rest of the dinner.  When
it was over, and we were all going upstairs to coffee, I spoke to
Columb,(247) in passing, to have a chair for me at seven o'clock. 

Page 70                                                           

"For what, then," cried a stern voice behind me, "for What go you
upstairs at all, when you don't drink coffee?                     

Did she imagine I should answer "For your society, ma'am"?  No--I
turned back quick as lightning, and only saying, "Very well,
ma'am," moved towards my own room.                                

Again a little ashamed of herself, she added, rather more
civilly, "For what should you have that trouble?"                 

I simply repeated my "Very well, ma'am," in a voice of, I
believe, rather pique than calm acquiescence, and entered my own
apartment, unable to enjoy this little release, however speedy to
obtain it, from the various, the grievous emotions of my mind,
that this was the person, use me how she might, with whom I must
chiefly pass my time!                                             

So unpleasant were the sensations that filled me, that I could
recover no gaiety, even at the house of my beloved friend, though
received there by her dear self, her beautiful niece, and Lady
Bute and Lady Louisa, in the most flattering manner.  . . .       

The behaviour of my coadjutrix continued in the same strain--
-really shocking to endure.  I always began, at our first
meeting, some little small speech, and constantly received so
harsh a rebuff at the second word, that I then regularly seated
myself by a table, at work, and remained wholly silent the rest
of the day.  I tried the experiment of making my escape; but I
was fairly conquered from pursuing it.  The constant black
reception depressed me out of powers to exert for flight; and
therefore I relinquished this plan, and only got off, as I could,
to my own room, or remained dumb in hers.                         

To detail the circumstances of the tyranny and the grossieret`e I
experienced at this time would be afflicting to my beloved
friends, and oppressive to myself, I am fain, however, to confess
they vanquished me.  I found the restoration of some degree of
decency quite necessary to my quiet, since such open and horrible
ill-will from one daily in my sight even affrighted me: it
pursued me in shocking visions even when I avoided her presence;
and therefore I was content to put upon myself the great and
cruel force of seeking to conciliate a person who had no
complaint against me, but that she had given me an inflammation
of the eyes, which had been witnessed and resented by her
favourite Mr. de Luc.  I rather believe that latter circumstance
was what incensed her so inveterately.               

Page 71                                                           

The next extraordinary step she took was one that promised me
amends for all: she told me that there was no occasion we should
continue together after coffee, unless by her invitation.  I
eagerly exclaimed that this seemed a most feasible way of
producing some variety in our intercourse, and that I would adopt
it most readily.  She wanted instantly to call back her words :
she had expected I should be alarmed, and solicit her leave to be
buried -with her every evening! When she saw me so eager in
acceptance, she looked mortified and disappointed ; but I would
not suffer her to retract, and I began, at once, to retire to my
room the moment coffee was over.                                  

This flight of the sublime, which, being her own, she could not
resent, brought all round: for as she saw me every evening
prepare to depart with the coffee, she constantly began, at that
period, some civil discourse to detain me.  I always suffered it
to succeed, while civil, and when there was a failure, or a
pause, I retired.                                                 

By this means I recovered such portion of quiet as is compatible
with a situation like mine: for she soon returned entirely to
such behaviour as preceded the offence of my eyes; and I
obtained a little leisure at which she could not repine, as a
caprice of her own bestowed it. . . .                             

To finish, however, with respect to the prsidente, I must now
acquaint you that, as my eyes entirely grew -well, her incivility
entirely wore off, and I became a far greater favourite than I
had ever presumed to think myself till that time!  I was obliged
to give up my short-lived privilege of retirement, and live on as
before, making only my two precious little visits to my beloved
comforter and supporter, and to devote the rest of my wearisome
time to her presence--better satisfied, however, since I now saw
that open war made me wretched, even When a victor, beyond what
any subjection could do that had peace for its terms.             

This was not an unuseful discovery, for it has abated all
propensity to experiment in shaking off a yoke which, however
hard to bear, is so annexed to my place, that I must take one
with the other, and endure them as I can.                         

My favour, now, was beyond the favour of all others; I was "good
Miss Berner," at every other word, and no one else was listened
to if I would speak, and no one else was Accepted for a partner
if I would play!  I found no cause to Which I could attribute
this change.  I believe the whole mere Matter of caprice.         

Page 72                                                           

                              New YEAR's DAY.

Queen's Lodge, Windsor, Tuesday, Jan. 1, 1788-I began the new
year, as I ended the old one, by seizing the first moment it
presented to my own disposal, for flying to Mrs. Delany, and
begging her annual benediction.  She bestowed it with the
sweetest affection, and I spent, as usual all the time with her I
had to spare. . . .                                               

In the evening, by long appointment, I was to receive Mr. Fisher
and his bride.(248) Mrs. Schwellenberg, of her own accord desired
me to have them in my room, and said she would herself make tea
for the equerries in the eating-parlour.  Mrs. Delany and Miss
Port came to meet them.  Mrs. Fisher seems good-natured,
cheerful, and obliging, neither well nor ill in appearance, and,
I fancy, not strongly marked in any way.  But she adores Mr.
Fisher, and has brought him a large fortune.                      

The Princess Amelia was brought by Mrs. Cheveley, to fetch Mrs.
Delany to the queen.  Mrs. Fisher was much delighted in seeing
her royal highness, who, when in a grave humour, does 'the
honours of her rank with a seriousness extremely entertaining. 
She commands the company to sit down, holds out her little fat
hand to be kissed, and makes a distant courtesy, with an air of
complacency and encouragement that might suit any princess of
five times her age.                                               

I had much discourse, while the rest were engaged, with Mr.
Fisher, about my ever-valued, ever-regretted Mrs. Thrale.  Can I
call her by another name, loving that name so long, so well, for
her and her sake?  He gave me concern by information that she is
now publishing, not only the "Letters " of Dr. Johnson, but her
own.  How strange!                                                

Jan. 4.-In the morning, Mrs. Schwellenberg presented me, from the
queen, with a new year's gift.  It is plate, and very elegant. 
The queen, I find, makes presents to her whole household every
year: more or less, according to some standard of their claims
which she sets up, very properly, in her own mind.                


                         CHATTY MR. BRYANT AGAIN.

Jan. 8.-I met Mr. Bryant, who came, by appointment to give me
that pleasure.  He was in very high spirits, full Of anecdote and
amusement.  He has as much good-humoured                          

Page 73                                                           

chit-chat and entertaining gossiping as if he had given no time
to the classics and his studies, instead of having nearly devoted
his life to them.  One or two of his little anecdotes I will try
to recollect.                                                     

in the year thirty-three of this century, and in his own memory,
there was a cause brought before a judge, between two highwaymen,
who had quarrelled about the division of their booty; and these
men had the effrontery to bring their dispute to trial.  "In the
petition of the plaintiff," said Mr. Bryant, "he asserted that he
had been extremely ill-used by the defendant: that they had
carried on a very advantageous trade together, upon Black-heath,
Hounslow-heath, Bagshot-heath, and other places; that their
business chiefly consisted in watches, wearing apparel, and
trinkets of all sorts, as well as large concerns between them in
cash; that they had agreed to an equitable partition of all
profits, and that this agreement had been violated.  So impudent
a thing, the judge said, was never before brought out in a court,
and so he refused to pass sentence in favour of either of them,
and dismissed them from the court."                               

Then he told us a great number of comic slip-slops, of the first
Lord Baltimore, who made a constant misuse of one word for
another: for instance, "I have been," says he, "upon a little
excoriation to see a ship lanced; and there is not a finer going
vessel upon the face of God's earth: you've no idiom how well it
sailed."                                                          

Having given us this elegant specimen of the language of one
lord, he proceeded to give us one equally forcible of the
understanding of another.  The late Lord Plymouth, meeting in a
country town with a puppet-show, was induced to see it; and, from
the high entertainment he received through Punch, he determined
to buy him, and accordingly asked his price, and paid it, and
carried the puppet to his country-house, that he might be
diverted with him at any odd hour.  Mr. Bryant protests he met
the same troop Just as the purchase had been made, and went
himself to the puppet-show, which was exhibited senza punch!      

Next he spoke upon the Mysteries, or origin of our theatrical
entertainments, and repeated the plan and conduct Of several Of
these strange compositions, in particular one he remembered which
was called "Noah's Ark," and in which that patriarch and his
sons, just previous to the Deluge, made it all their delight to
speed themselves into the ark without Mrs. Noah,                  
Page 74                                                           

whom they wished to escape; but she surprised them just as they
had embarked, and made so prodigious a racket against the door
that, after a long and violent contention, she forced them to
open it, and gained admission, having first content, them by
being kept out till she was thoroughly wet to the skin.  These
most eccentric and unaccountable dramas filled up the chief of
our conversation.                                                 


              DR. JOHNSON's LETTERS To MRS. THRALE DISCUSSED. 
Wednesday, Jan. 9.-To-day Mrs. Schwellenberg did me a real
favour, and with real good nature; for she sent me the "Letters"
of my poor lost friends, Dr. Johnson and Mrs. Thrale,(249) which
she knew me to be almost pining to procure.  The book belongs to
the Bishop of Carlisle, who lent it to Mr. Turbulent, from whom
it was again lent to the queen, and so passed on to Mrs.
Schwellenberg.  It is still unpublished.(249)                     

With what a sadness have I been reading!--what scenes in it
revived!--what regrets renewed!  These letters have not been more
improperly published in the whole, than they are injudiciously
displayed in their several parts.  She has all--every word--and
thinks that, perhaps, a justice to Dr. Johnson, which, in fact,
is the greatest injury to his memory.  The few she has selected
of her own do her, indeed, much credit; she has discarded all
that were trivial and merely local, and given only such as
contain something instructive, amusing, or ingenious.             

About four of the letters, however, of my ever-revered Dr.
Johnson are truly worthy his exalted powers: one is upon death,
in considering its approach as we are surrounded, or not by
mourners; another, upon the sudden and premature loss of poor
Mrs. Thrale's darling and only son.(250)                          

Our name once occurs: how I started at its sight It is to mention
the party that planned the first visit to our house: Miss Owen,
Mr. Seward, Mrs. and Miss Thrale, and Dr. Johnson.  How well
shall we ever, my Susan, remember that morning!                   

I have had so many attacks upon her subject, that at last I
fairly begged quarter,--and frankly owned to Mrs. Schwellenberg
that I could not endure to speak any more upon the matter,
endeavouring, at the same time, to explain to her my              

Page 75                                                           

long and intimate connection with the family.  Yet nothing I
could say put a stop to "How can you defend her in this?--how can
you justify her in that?"" etc.  Alas! that I cannot defend her
is precisely the reason I can so ill bear to speak of her.  How
differently and how sweetly has the queen conducted herself -upon
this occasion!  Eager to see the "Letters," she began reading
them with the utmost avidity : a natural curiosity arose to be
informed of several names and several particulars, which she knew
I could satisfy; yet, when she perceived how tender a string she
touched, she soon suppressed her inquiries, or only made them
with so much gentleness towards the parties mentioned, that I
could not be distressed in my answers; and even In a short time I
found her questions made so favourable a disposition, that I
began secretly to rejoice in them, as the means by which I reaped
opportunity of clearing several points that had been darkened by
calumny, and of softening others that had been viewed wholly
through false lights.                                             

Jan. 10.-When we were summoned to the tea-room I met Miss de Luc
coming out.  I asked if she did not stay tea? "O How can I,"
cried she, in a voice of distress, "when already, as there is
company here without me, Mrs. Schwellenberg has asked me what I
came for?"  I was quite shocked for her, and could only shrug in
dismay and let her pass.  When there is no one else she is
courted to stay!                                                  

Mr. and Mrs. Fisher came soon after; and the Princesses Augusta
and Amelia fetched away Mrs. Delany.                              

Soon after Colonel Wellbred came, ushering in Mr. Fairly and his
young son, who is at Eton school.  I had seen Mr. F. but once
since his great and heavy loss, though now near half a year had
elapsed.  So great a personal alteration in a few months I have
seldom seen: thin, haggard, worn with care, grief, and watching--
his hair turned grey--white, rather, and some of his front teeth
vanished.  He seemed to have suffered, through his feelings, the
depredations suffered by Others through age and time.  His
demeanour, upon this trying occasion, filled me with as much
admiration as his countenance did with compassion : calm,
composed, and gentle, he seemed bent on appearing not only
resigned, but cheerful.  I might even have supposed him verging
on being happy, had not the havoc of grief on his face, and the
tone of deep melancholy in his voice, assured me his Solitude was
all sacred to his sorrows.                                        

Page 76                                                           

Mr. Fisher was very sad himself, grieving at the death of Dr.
Harley, Dean of Windsor and Bishop of Hereford.  He began,
however, talking to me of these "Letters," and, with him, I could
speak of them, and of their publisher, without reserve: but the
moment they were named Mrs. Schwellenberg uttered such hard and
harsh things, that I could not keep my seat and the less,
because, knowing my strong friendship there in former days, I was
sure it was meant I should be hurt, I attempted not to speak,
well aware all defence is irritation, where an attack is made
from ill-nature, not justice.                                     

The gentle Mr. Fisher, sorry for the cause and the effect of this
assault, tried vainly to turn it aside: what began with censure
soon proceeded to invective; and at last, being really sick from
crowding recollections of past scenes, where the person now thus
vilified had been dear and precious to my very heart, I was
forced, abruptly, to walk out of the room.                        

It was indifferent to me whether or not my retreat was noticed. 
I have never sought to disguise the warm friendship that once
subsisted between Mrs. Thrale and myself, for I always hoped
that, where it was known, reproach might be spared to a name I
can never hear without a secret pang, even when simply mentioned. 
Oh, then, how severe a one is added, when its sound is
accompanied by the hardest aspersions!                            

I returned when I could, and the subject was over.
When all were gone Mrs. Schwellenberg said, "I have told it Mr.
Fisher that he drove you out from the room, and he says he won't
not do it no more."                                               

She told me next--that in the second volume I also was mentioned. 
Where she may have heard this I cannot gather, but it has given
me a sickness at heart inexpressible.  It is not that I expect
severity: for at the time of that correspondence--at all times,
indeed, previous to the marriage with Piozzi, if Mrs. Thrale
loved not F. B., where shall we find faith in words, or give
credit to actions?  But her present resentment, however unjustly
incurred, of my constant disapprobation of her conduct, may
prompt some note, or other mark, to point out her change of
sentiments--but let me try to avoid such painful expectations; at
least, not to dwell upon them.                                    

O, little does she know how tenderly at this moment I could run
again into her arms, so often opened to receive me with a
cordiality I believed inalienable.  And it was sincere then, I am
satisfied: pride, resentment of disapprobation, and consciousness
of unjustifiable proceedings --- these have now                   

Page 77                                                           

changed her: but if we met, and she saw and believed my faithful
regard, how would she again feel all her own return!              

Well, what a dream am I making!                                   

Jan. 11.-Upon this ever-interesting subject, I had to-day a very
sweet scene with the queen.  While Mrs. Schwellenberg and myself
were both in our usual attendance at noon, her majesty inquired
of Mrs. Schwellenberg if she had yet read any of the "Letters"?   

"No," she answered, "I have them not to read."                    

I then said she had been so obliging as to lend them to me, to
whom they were undoubtedly of far greater personal value.         

"That is true," said the queen; "for I think there is but little
in them that can be of much consequence or value to the public at
large."                                                           

"Your majesty, you will hurt Miss Burney if you speak about that;
poor Miss Burney will be quite hurt by that."                     

The queen looked much surprised, and I hastily exclaimed, "O,
no!--not with the gentleness her majesty names it."               

Mrs. Schwellenberg then spoke in German; and, I fancy, by the
names she mentioned, recounted how Mr. Turbulent and Mr. Fisher
had "driven me out of the room."                                  

The queen seemed extremely astonished, and I was truly vexed at
this total misunderstanding; and that the goodness she has
exerted upon this occasion should seem so little to have
succeeded.  But I could not explain, lest it should seem to
reproach what was meant as kindness in Mrs. Schwellenberg, who
had not yet discovered that it was not the subject, but her own
manner of treating it, that was so painful to me.                 

However, the instant Mrs. Schwellenberg left the room, and we
remained alone, the queen, approaching me in the softest manner,
and looking earnestly in my face, said, "You could not be
offended, surely, at what I said."                                

"O no, ma'am," cried I, deeply indeed penetrated by such
unexpected condescension.  "I have been longing to make a speech
to your majesty upon this matter; and it was but yesterday that I
entreated Mrs. Delany to make it for me, and to express to your
majesty the very deep sense I feel of the lenity with which this
Subject has been treated in my hearing."                          

"Indeed," cried she, with eyes strongly expressive of the
complacency with which she heard me, "I have always spoke as
little as possible upon this affair.  I remember but twice that I
have named it: once I said to the Bishop of Carlisle,             
 
Page 78                                                           

that I thought most of these letters had better have been spared
the printing; and once to Mr. Langton, at the Drawing-room, I
said, 'Your friend Dr. Johnson, sir, has had many friends busy to
publish his books, and his memoirs, and his meditations, and his
thoughts; but I think he wanted one friend more.'  'What for?
ma'am,' cried he; 'A friend to suppress them,' I answered.  And,
indeed, this is all I ever said about the business."              


                            A PAIR OF PARAGONS.

.....I was amply recompensed in spending an evening the most to
my natural taste of any I have spent officially under the royal
roof.  How high Colonel Wellbred stands with me you know; Mr.
Fairly., with equal gentleness, good breeding, and delicacy, adds
a far more general turn for conversation, and seemed not only
ready, but pleased, to open upon subjects of such serious import
as were suited to his state of mind, and could not but be
edifying, from a man of such high moral character, to all who
heard him.                                                        

Life and death were the deep themes to which he .led; and the
little space between them, and the little value of that space
were the subject of his comments.  The unhappiness of man at
least after the ardour of his first youth, and the near
worthlessness of the world, seemed so deeply impressed on his
mind, that no reflection appeared to be consolatory to it, save
the necessary shortness of our mortal career. . . .               

"Indeed," said he, "there is no time--I know of none--in which
life is well worth having.  The prospect before us is never such
as to make it worth preserving, except from religious motives."   

I felt shocked and sorry.  Has he never tasted happiness, who so
deeply drinks of sorrow? He surprised me, and filled me, indeed,
with equal wonder and pity.  At a loss how to make an answer
sufficiently general, I made none at all, but referred to Colonel
Wellbred: perhaps he felt the same difficulty, for he said
nothing; and Mr. Fairly then gathered an answer for himself, by
saying, "Yes, it may, indeed, be attainable in the only actual as
well as only right way to seek it,--that of doing good!"          

"If," cried Colonel Wellbred, afterwards, "I lived always in
London, I should be as tired of life as you are: I always sicken
of it there, if detained beyond a certain time."                  

Page 79                                                           

They then joined in a general censure of dissipated life, and a
general distaste of dissipated characters, which seemed, however,
to comprise almost all their acquaintance; and this presently
occasioned Mr. Fairly to say,                                     

"It is, however, but fair for you and me to own, Wellbred, that
if people in general ,'are bad, we live chiefly amongst those who
are the worst."                                                   

Whether he meant any particular set to which they belong, or
whether his reflection went against people in high life, such 'as
constitute their own relations and connexions in general, I
cannot say, as he did not explain himself.                        

Mr. Fairly, besides the attention due to him from all, in
consideration of his late loss, merited from me peculiar
deference, in return for a mark I received of his disposition to
think favourably of me from our first acquaintance: for not more
was I surprised than pleased at his opening frankly upon the
character of my coadjutrix, and telling me at once, that when
first he saw me here, just before the Oxford expedition, he had
sincerely felt for and pitied me. . . .                           

Sunday, Jan. 13.-There is something in Colonel Wellbred so
elegant, so equal, and so pleasing, it is impossible not to see
him with approbation, and to speak of him with praise.  But I
found in Mr. Fairly a much greater depth of understanding, and
all his sentiments seem formed upon the most perfect basis of
religious morality.                                               

During the evening, in talking over plays and players, we all
three united warmly in panegyric of Mrs. Siddons; but when Mrs.
Jordan was named, Mr. Fairly and myself were left to make the
best of her.  Observing the silence of Colonel Wellbred, we
called upon him to explain it.                                    

"I have seen her," he answered, quietly, "but in one part."       

"Whatever it was," cried Mr. Fairly, "it must have been well
done."                                                            

"Yes," answered the colonel, "and so well that it seemed to be
her real character: and I disliked her for that very reason, for
it was a character that, off the stage or on, is equally
distasteful to me--a hoyden."                                     

I had had a little of this feeling myself when I saw her in "The
Romp,"(251) where she gave me, in the early part, a real disgust;
but afterwards she displayed such uncommon humour that it brought
me to pardon her assumed vulgarity, in favour of a representation
of nature, which, In its particular class, seemed to me quite
perfect.                                                          

Page 80                                                           

                    MR. TURBULENT'S SELF CONDEMNATION.

At the usual tea-time I sent Columb, to see if anybody had come
upstairs.  He brought me word the eating-parlour was empty.  I
determined to go thither at once, with my work, that there might
be no pretence to fetch me when the party assembled; but upon
opening the door I saw Mr. Turbulent there, and alone!            

I entered with readiness into discourse with him, and showed a
disposition to placid good-will, for with so irritable a spirit
resentment has much less chance to do good than an appearance of
not supposing it deserved.  Our conversation was in the utmost
gravity.  He told me he was not happy, though owned he had
everything to make him so; but he was firmly persuaded that
happiness in this world was a real stranger.  I combated this
misanthropy in general terms; but he assured me that such was his
unconquerable opinion of human life.                              

How differently did I feel when I heard an almost similar
sentiment from Mr. Fairly!  In him I imputed it to unhappiness of
circumstances, and was filled with compassion for his fate: in
this person I impute it to something blameable within, and I
tried by all the arguments I could devise to give him better
notions.  For him, however, I soon felt pity, though not of the
same composition : for he frankly said he was good enough to be
happy-that he thought human frailty incompatible with happiness,
and happiness with human frailty, and that he had no wish so
strong as to turn monk!                                           

I asked him if he thought a life of uselessness and of goodness
the same thing?                                                   

"I need not be useless," he said; "I might assist by my counsels. 
I might be good in a monastery--in the world I cannot!  I am not
master of my feelings: I am run away by passions too potent for
control!"                                                         

This was a most unwelcome species of confidence, but I affected
to treat it as mere talk, and answered it only slightly, telling
him he spoke from the gloom of the moment.                        

"No," he answered, "I have tried in vain to conquer them.  I have
made vows--resolutions--all in vain!  I cannot keep them!"        

"Is not weakness," cried I, "sometimes fancied, merely to save
the pain and trouble of exerting fortitude."                      

"No, it is with me inevitable.  I am not formed for success in
self-conquest.  I resolve--I repent--but I fall!  I blame--       

Page 81                                                           

reproach--I even hate myself--I do everything, in short, yet
cannot save myself! Yet do not," he continued, seeing me shrink,
"think worse of me than I deserve: nothing of injustice, of
ill-nature, of malignancy--I have nothing of these to reproach
myself with." 

"I believe you," I cried, "and surely, therefore, a general
circumspection, an immediate watchfulness---" 

"No, no, no--'twould be all to no purpose."

"'Tis that hopelessness which is most your enemy.  If you would
but exert your better reason--" 

"No, madam, no!--'tis a fruitless struggle.  I know myself too
well--I can do nothing so right as to retire--to turn monk--
hermit."

"I have no respect," cried I, "for these selfish seclusions.  I
can never suppose we were created in the midst of society, in
order to run away to a useless solitude.  I have not a doubt but
you may do well, if you will do well." 

Some time after he suddenly exclaimed, "Have you--tell me--have
you, ma'am, never done what you repent?" 

O "yes!--at times."

"You have?" he cried, eagerly.

"O yes, alas!--yet not, I think, very often--for it is not very
often I have done anything!" 

"And what is it has saved you?"

I really did not know well what to answer him; I could say
nothing that would not sound like parade, or implied superiority. 
I suppose he was afraid himself of the latter ; for, finding me
silent, he was pleased to answer for me. 

"Prejudice, education, accident!--those have saved you." 

"Perhaps so," cried I. "And one thing more, I acknowledge myself
obliged to, on various occasions--fear.  I run no risks that I
see--I run--but it is always away from all danger that I
perceive." 

"You do not, however, call that virtue, ma'am--you do not call
that the rule of right?" 

"No--I dare not--I must be content that it is certainly not the
rule of wrong." 

He began then an harangue upon the universality of depravity and
frailty that I heard with much displeasure; for, it seems to me,
those most encourage such general ideas of 
general worthlessness who most wish to found upon them partial
excuses for their own. 

Page 82                                                           

                    MISS BURNEY AMONG HER OLD FRIENDS.

Jan. 31.--And now I must finish my account of this month by my
own assembly at my dear Mrs. Ord's.                               

I passed through the friendly hands of Miss Ord to the most
cordial ones of Mrs. Garrick,(252) who frankly embraced me,
saying, "Do I see you, once more, before I die, my tear little
spark? for your father is my flame, all my life, and you are a
little spark of that flame!"                                      

She added how much she had wished to visit me at the queen's
house, when she found I no longer came about the world; but that
she was too discreet, and I did not dare say "Do come!"
unauthorized.                                                     

Then came Mr. Pepys, and he spoke to me instantly, of the
'Streatham Letters.'  He is in agony as to his own fate, but said
there could be no doubt of my faring well.  Not, I assured him,
to my own content, if named at all.                               

We were interrupted by Sir Joshua Reynolds.  I was quite glad to
see him; and we began chatting with all our old spirit, 
and he quite raved against my present life of confinement, an the
invisibility it had occasioned, etc., etc.                        

The approach of Mrs. Porteus stopped this.  She is always most
obliging and courteous, and she came to inquire whether now she
saw I really was not wholly immured, there was any chance of a
more intimate cultivation of an acquaintance long begun, but
stopped in its first progress.  I could only make a general
answer of acknowledgment to her kindness.  Her bishop, whom I had
not seen since his preferment from Chester to London, joined us,
and most good-naturedly entered into discourse upon my health.    

I was next called to Mrs. Montagu, who was behind with no one in
kind speeches, and who insisted upon making me a visit at the
queen's house, and would take no denial to my fixing my own time,
whenever I was at leisure, and sending her word; and she promised
to put off any and every engagement for that Purpose.  I could
make no other return to such                                      

Page 83                                                           

civility, but to desire to postpone it till my dear Mr. and Mrs.
Locke came to town, and could meet her.                           

Mrs. Boscawen(253) was my next little t`ete-`a-t`ete, but I had
only begun it when Mr. Cambridge came to my side.                 

"I can't get a word!" cried he, with a most forlorn look, "and
yet I came on purpose!" I thanked him, and felt such a real
pleasure in his sight, from old and never-varying regard, that I
began to listen to him with my usual satisfaction.  He related to
me a long history of Lavant, where the new-married Mrs. Charles
Cambridge is now very unwell: and then he told me many good
things of his dear and deserving daughter; and I showed him her
muff, which she had worked for me, in embroidery, and we were
proceeding a little in the old way, when I saw Mrs. Pepys leaning
forward to hear us; and then Lady Rothes, who also seemed all
attention to Mr. Cambridge and his conversation.                  

The sweet Lady Mulgrave came for only a few words, not to take
me, she said, from older claimants; the good and wise Mrs.
Carter(254) expressed herself with equal kindness and goodness on
our once more meeting; Miss Port, looking beautiful as a little
angel, only once advanced to shake hands, and say, "I can see you
another time, so I won't be unreasonable now."                    

Mr. Smelt, who came from Kew for this party, made me the same
speech, and no more, and I had time for nothing beyond a "how do
do " with Mr. Langton, his Lady Rothes,(255) Mr. Batt, Mr.
Cholmondoley, Lord Mulgrave, Sir Lucas Pepys, and Lady Herries.   

Then up came Mrs. Chapone, and, after most cordially shaking
hands with me, "But I hope," she cried, "you are not always to
appear only as a comet, to be stared at, and then vanish?  If you
are, let me beg at least to be brushed by your tail, and not hear
you have disappeared before my telescope is ready for looking at
you!"                                                            
When at last I was able to sit down, after a short conference
with every one, it was next to Mr. Walpole,(256) who had secured  

Page 84                                                           

me a place by his side ; and with him was my longest
conversation, for he was in high spirits, polite, ingenious,
entertaining, quaint, and original.                               

But all was so short!--so short!--I was forced to return home so
soon! 'Twas, however, a very great regale to me, and the sight of
so much kindness, preserved so entire after so long an absence,
warmed my whole heart with pleasure and satisfaction.  My dearest
father brought me home.                                           



                       SOME TRIVIAL COURT INCIDENTS.

Friday, Feb. 1.-To-day I had a summons in the morning to Mrs.
Schwellenberg, who was very ill; so ill as to fill me with
compassion.  She was extremely low-spirited, and spoke to me with
quite unwonted kindness of manner, and desired me to accept a
sedan-chair, which had been Mrs. Haggerdorn's, and now devolved
to her, saying, I might as well have it while she lived as when
she was dead, which would soon happen.                            

I thanked her, and wished her, I am sure very sincerely, better. 
Nor do I doubt her again recovering, as I have frequently seen
her much worse.  True, she must die at last, but who must not?    

Feb. 2.-The king always makes himself much diversion with Colonel
Goldsworthy, whose dryness of humour and pretended servility of
submission, extremely entertain him.  He now attacked him upon
the enormous height of his collar, which through some mistake of
his tailor, exceeded even the extremity of fashion.  And while
the king, who was examining and pulling it about, had his back to
us, Colonel Wellbred had the malice to whisper me, "Miss Burney,
I do assure you it is nothing to what it was; he has had two
inches cut off since morning!                                     

Fortunately, as Colonel Wellbred stood next me, this was not
heard for the king would not easily have forgotten.  He soon
after went away, but gave no summons to his gentlemen.            

And now Colonel Wellbred gave me another proof of his
extraordinary powers of seeing.  You now know, my dear friends,
that in the king's presence everybody retreats back, as far as
they can go, to leave him the room to himself.  In all this,
through the disposition of the chairs, I was placed so much
behind Colonel Wellbred as to conclude myself out of his sight;
but the moment the king retired, he said, as                      

Page 85                                                           

we all dropped on Our seats, "Everybody is tired--Miss Burney the
most--for she has stood the stillest.  Miss Planta has leant on
her chair, Colonel Goldsworthy against the wall, myself
occasionally on the screen, but Miss Burney has stood perfectly
still--I perceived that without looking."                         

'Tis, indeed, to us standers, an amazing addition to fatigue to
keep still.                                                       

We returned to town next day.  In the morning I had had a very
disagreeable, though merely foolish, embarrassment.  Detained, by
the calling in of a poor woman about a subscription, from
dressing myself, I was forced to run to the queen, at her
summons, without any cap.  She smiled, but said nothing.  Indeed,
she is all indulgence in those points of externals, which rather
augments than diminishes my desire of showing apparent as well as
my feeling of internal respect but just as I had assisted her
with her peignoir, Lady Effingham was admitted, and the moment
she sat down, and the hair-dresser began his office, a page
announced the Duke of York, who instantly followed his name.      

I would have given the world to have run away, but the common
door of entrance and exit was locked, unfortunately, on account
of the coldness of the day; and there was none to pass, but that
by which his royal highness entered, and was standing.  I was
forced.  therefore, to remain, and wait for dismission.           

Yet I was pleased, too, by the sight of his affectionate manner
to his royal mother.  He flew to take and kiss her hand, but she
gave him her cheek; and then he began a conversation with her, so
open and so gay, that he seemed talking to the most intimate
associate.                                                        

His subject was Lady Augusta Campbell's elopement from.  the
masquerade.  The Duchess of Ancaster had received masks at her
house on Monday, and sent tickets to all the queen's household. 
I, amongst the rest, had one; but it was impossible I could be
spared at such an hour, though the queen told me that she had
thought of my going, but could not manage it, as Mrs.
Schwellenberg was so ill.  Miss Planta went, and I had the entire
equipment of her.  I started the Project of dressing her at Mrs.
Delany's, in all the most antique and old-fashioned things we
could borrow; and this was Put very happily in execution, for she
was, I have heard, one of the best and most grotesque figures in
the room.                                                         

(239) Henry William Bunbury, the well-known caricaturist.  He was
connected by marriage with Colonel Gwynn, having married, in
1771, Catherine, the "Little Comedy," sister of the "Jessamy
Bride."-ED.                                                       

(240) i.e., of the Play which was to be read by Mrs. Siddons. 
See P- 55.-ED.                                          

(241) This excellent comedy was completed by Colley Cibber, from
an unfinished play of Sir John Vanbrugh's.-ED.                    

(242) See note 210, ante, vol. 1, P. 370.-ED.                     

(243) Mr.  Anthony Shepherd, Plumian Professor of Astronomy at
Cambridge.  We meet with him occasionally in the "Early Diary:"
"dullness itself" Fanny once calls him (in 1774).-ED.             

(244) Fanny's maid.-ED.                                           

(245) Susan Phillips and the Lockes had stayed at Windsor from
the 10th to the 17th of September.-ED.                            

(246) This magnificent panegyric relates to a young amateur,
William Locke, the son of Fanny's friends, Mr. and Mrs. Locke. 
But      there was more than a little of the amateur about Mr.
Bunbury himself.  His works bear no comparison with those of the
great masters of caricatured Rowlandson and Gulray.-ED.           

(247) Fanny's man-servant, a Swiss.-ED.                           

(248) Mr. Fisher was a canon at Windsor, and an amateur
landscape-painter.  He had recently married.-ED.                  

(249) "Letters to and from Dr. Johnson," published by Mrs. Piozzi
in 1788.-ED.                                                      

(250) Thrale's only son died, a child, in March, 1776.--ED.       

(251) A farce, adapted from Bickerstaff's opera, "Love in the
City."-ED.                                                        

(252) Eva Maria Feigel, a Viennese dancer, whom Garrick married
in 1749.  Fanny writes of her in 1771: "Mrs. Garrick is the most
attentively polite and perfectly well-bred woman in the world;
her speech is all softness; her manners all elegance; her smiles
all sweetness.  There is something so peculiarly graceful in her
motion, and pleasing in her address, that the most trifling words
have weight and power, when spoken by her, to oblige and even
delight."  ("Early Diary," vol. i. p. 111.)  She died in 1822;
her husband in 1779.-ED.                                          

(253) The Hon. Mrs. Boscawen, widow of Admiral Boscawen.-ED.      

(254) Elizabeth Carter, the celebrated translator of Epictetus. 
She was now in her seventieth year, and had been for many years
an esteemed friend of Dr. Johnson.  She died in 1806.-ED. , '     

(255) Mr. Langton's wife was the Countess dowager of Rothes,
widow of the eighth earl.  Lady Jane Leslie, who married Sir
Lucas Pepys, the physician, also enjoyed, in her own right, the
title of Countess of Rothes.-ED.                                  

(256) Horace Walpole. -E D.                                       




Page 86                                                           

                                SECTION 12.
                                  (1788.)

                       THE TRIAL OF WARREN HASTINGS.


[Probably few events in the history of England are more familiar
to the general reader than the trial of Warren Hastings.  If
nowhere else, at least in the best known and, perhaps, most
brilliant of Macaulay's essays every one has read of the career
of that extraordinary man, and of the long contest in Westminster
Hall, from which he came forth acquitted, after an ordeal of
seven years' duration.  We shall, accordingly, confine our
remarks upon this subject within the narrowest limits consistent
with intelligibility: Fanny's experiences of the trial, recorded
in the following pages, rendering some review of the proceedings
which caused it here indispensable.                               

Warren Hastings was a lad of seventeen when, in 1750, he was
first sent out to India as a writer in the East India Company's
service.  His abilities attracted the notice of Clive, and, after
the downfall of the Nawab Suraj-u-Dowlah, Hastings was chosen to
represent the Company at the Court of Mir Jafir, the new Nawab of
Bengal.  In 1761 he was appointed Member of Council at Calcutta,
and he returned to England in 1765, unknown as yet to fame, but
with an excellent reputation both for efficiency and integrity. 
He left Bengal in a state of anarchy.  The actual power was in
the possession of a trading company, whose objects were at once
to fill their coffers, and to avoid unnecessary political
complications.  The show of authority was invested in a Nawab who
was a mere puppet in the hands of the English company.  Disorder
was rampant throughout the provinces, and the unhappy Hindoos,
unprotected by their native princes, were left a helpless prey to
the rapacity of their foreign tyrants.                            

At a time when to enrich himself with the plunder of the natives
was the aim of every servant of the East India Company, it is
much to the honour of Hastings that he returned home a
comparatively poor man.  In England he indulged his taste for
literary society, busied himself with a scheme for introducing at 

Page 87                                                           
oxford the study of the Persian language and literature, and made
the acquaintance of Dr. Johnson.  But generosity and imprudence
together soon reduced his small means.  He applied to the
Directors of the Company for employment, was appointed to a seat
on the Council at Madras, and made his second voyage to India in
1769.  Among his fellow-passengers on board the "Duke of Grafton"
was Madame Imhoff, whom he afterwards married.                    

At Madras Hastings managed the export business of the Company
with conspicuous success, and so completely to the satisfaction
of the Directors, that, two years later, he was promoted to the
governorship of Bengal, and sent to exercise his administrative
ability and genius for reform -%N here they were then 'greatly
needed-at Calcutta.  With this appointment his historic career
may be said to commence.  He found himself at the outset in a
situation of extreme difficulty.  He was required to establish
something- resembling a stable government in place of the
prevailing anarchy, and, above all things, with disordered
finances, to satisfy the expectations of his' employers by
constant remittances of money.  Both these tasks he accomplished,
but the difficulties in the way of the latter led him to the
commission of those acts for which he was afterwards denounced by
his enemies as a monster of injustice and barbarity.              
Hastings's conduct with respect to the Great Mogul has been
sketched by Macaulay in words which imply a reprehension in
reality undeserved.  Little remained at this time of the
magnificent empire of Aurungzebe beyond a title and a palace at
Delhi.  In 1765 Lord Clive had ceded to the titular master of the
Mogul empire the districts of Corah and Allahabad, lying to the
south of Oude, and westwards of Benares.  The cession had been
made in pursuance of the same policy which Hastings afterwards
followed; that, namely, of sheltering the British possessions
behind a barrier of friendly states, which should be sufficiently
strong to withstand the incursions of their hostile neighbours,
and particularly of the Mahrattas, the most warlike and dreaded
of the native powers.  But Clive's purpose had been completely
frustrated; for the Mogul, far from shielding the English, had
not been able to hold his own against the Mahrattas, to whom he
had actually ceded the very territories made over to him by the
Company.  Under these circumstances the English authorities can
hardly be blamed for causing their troops to re-occupy the
districts in question, nor can it fairly be imputed as a crime to
Hastings that in September, 1773, he concluded with the Vizier of
Oude the treaty of Benares, by which he sold Allahabad and Corah
to that friendly potentate for about half a million sterling.     

But the next act of foreign policy on the part of the Governor of
Bengal--his share in the subjugation of the Rohillas--does not
admit of so favourable an interpretation.  The Rohillas occupied
territory lying under the southern slopes of the Himalayas, to
the north-west of Oude.  The dominant race in Rohilcund was of    

Page 88                                                           

Afghan origin, although the majority of the population was
Hindoo.  Of the rulers of Rohilcund Hastings himself wrote, in
terms which we may accept as accurate, "They are a tribe of
Afghans or Pathans, freebooters who conquered the country about
sixty years ago, and have ever since lived upon the fruits of it,
without contributing either to its cultivation or manufactures,
or even mixing with the native inhabitants."(257)                 

In 1772, the Rohillas, hard pressed by their foes, the Mahrattas,
sought the assistance of the Vizier of Oude, Shuja-u-Dowlah, to
whom they agreed to pay, in return for his aid, a large sum of
money.  This agreement was signed in the presence of an English
general, and an English brigade accompanied the vizier's army,
which co-operated with the Rohilla forces, and obliged the
Mahrattas to withdraw.  But when Shula-u-Dowlah demanded his
promised hire, he received from the Rohillas plenty of excuses
but no money.  Hereupon he resolved to annex Rohilcund to his own
dominions, and, to ensure success, he concerted measures with
Hastings, who, willing at once to strengthen a friendly power and
to put money into his own exchequer, placed an English brigade at
the vizier's disposal for a consideration Of 400,000 pounds.  In
the spring of 1774 the invasion took place.  The desperate
bravery of the Rohillas was of no avail against English
discipline, and the country was so reduced to submission. 
Macaulay's stirring account of the barbarities practised by the
invaders has been proved to be greatly exaggerated.  Disorders,
however, there were: the people were plundered, and some of the
villages were burnt by the vizier's troops.  Many of the Rohilla
families were exiled, but the Hindoo inhabitants of Rohilcund
were left to till their fields as before, and were probably not
greatly affected by their change of master.                       

Hastings's conduct in this affair is, from the most favourable
point of view, rather to be excused than applauded.  It may have
been politic under the circumstances, but it was hardly in
accordance with a high standard of morality to let out on hire an
English force for the subjugation of a people who, whatever
grounds of complaint the Vizier of Oude might have had against
them, had certainly given no provocation whatsoever to the
English Government.  As to the plea which has been put forward in
his favour, that the Rohillas were merely the conquerors, and not
the original owners of Rohilcund, it is sufficiently answered, by
Macaulay's query, "What were the English themselves?"             

In 1773 Lord North's "Regulating Act" introduced considerable
changes in the constitution of the Indian government, and marked
the first step in the direction of a transfer of the control over
Indian affairs from the Company to the Crown.  By this act "the
governorship of Bengal, Bahar, and Orissa was vested in the
Governor-General, with four Councillors, having authority over    

Page 89                                                           


Madras and Bombay ; and all correspondence relating to civil
government or military affairs was to be laid by the Directors of
the Company in London before his -Majesty's Ministers, who Could
disapprove or cancel any rules or orders.  A Supreme Court of
judicature, appointed by the Crown, was established in
Calcutta."(258)  The Governor-General was appointed for a term of
five years, and the first Governor-General was Hastings.  Of the
four councillors with whom he was associated, three were sent out
from England to take their places at the board, and landed at
Calcutta, together with the judges of the Supreme Court, in
October, 1771.  Indisputably the ablest, and, as it proved,
historically the most noteworthy of these three, was Philip
Francis, the supposed author of "Junius's Letters."               

Even before the council commenced its duties dissensions arose. 
The newcomers, Francis, Clavering, and Monson, were in constant
opposition to the Governor-General.  Indeed, the hostility
between Hastings and Francis rose by degrees to such a height
that, some years later, they met in a duel, in which Francis was
severely wounded.  For the present, however, the opponents of
Hastings formed a majority on the council, and his authority was
in eclipse.  His ill-wishers in the country began to bestir
themselves, and a scandalous and, there is no doubt, utterly
untrue charge of accepting bribes was brought against him by an
old enemy, the Maharajah Nuncomar.  Hastings replied by
prosecuting Nuncomar and his allies for conspiracy.  The accused
were admitted to bail, but a little later Nuncomar was arrested
on a charge of having forged a bond some years previously, tried
before an English jury, condemned to death, and hanged, August 5,
1775, his application for leave to appeal having been rejected by
the Chief justice, Sir Elijah Impey.  Hastings solemnly declared
his innocence of any share in this transaction, nor is there any
evidence directly implicating him.  On the other hand, it must he
remembered that Nuncomar had preferred a most serious charge
against Hastings; that the majority on the council were only too
ready to listen to any charge, well or ill founded, against the
Governor-General; and that Nuncomar's triumph would, in all
probability, have meant Hastings's ruin.  Even Mr. Forrest admits
that "it is extremely probable, as Francis stated, that if
Nuncomar had never stood forth in politics, his other offences
would not have hurt him."(259)  Macaulay comments upon the
scandal of this stringent enforcement Of the English law against
forgery under circumstances so peculiar, and in a country where
the English law was totally unknown.(260) That Nuncomar was
fairly tried and convicted                                        

Page 90                                                           

in the ordinary course of law is now beyond doubt, but we still
hold that it was Impey's clear duty to respite his prisoner. 
That he did not do so is a fact which, beyond all others, gave
colour to the assertion of Hastings's enemies, that the execution
of Nuncomar was the result of a secret understanding between the
Governor-General of Bengal and the Chief justice of the Supreme
Court.  But, however brought about, the death of Nuncomar was to
the opponents of Hastings a blow from which they never recovered. 
The death of Monson, in September, 1776, and that of Clavering, a
year later, placed him in a majority on the council ; his
authority was more undisputed than ever ; and at the expiration
of his term he was re-appointed Governor-General.                 

During the years 1780 and 1781 British rule in India passed
through the most dangerous crisis that had befallen it since the
days of Clive.  A formidable confederacy had been formed between
the Nizam, the Mahrattas, and the famous Hyder Ali, Sultan of
Mysore, with the object of crushing their common enemy, the
English.  The hostility of these powerful states had been
provoked by the blundering and bad faith of the governments of
Bombay and Madras, which had made, and broken, treaties with each
of them in turn.  "As to the Mahrattas," to quote the words of
Burke, "they had so many cross treaties with the states general
of that nation, and with each of the chiefs, that it was
notorious that no one of these agreements could be kept without
grossly violating the rest."(261)  The war in which the Bombay
Government had engaged with the Mahrattas had been as
unsuccessful in its prosecution as it was impolitic in its
commencement, until, early in 1780, a force under General Goddard
was dispatched from Bengal to co-operate with the Bombay troops. 
Goddard's arrival turned the tide of events.  The province of
Gujerat was reduced, the Mahratta chiefs, Sindia and Holkar, were
defeated, and everything portended a favourable termination of
the war, when the whole face of affairs was changed by news from
the south.                                                        

Hyder Ali, the most able and warlike of the native princes, swept
down upon the Carnatic in July, 1780, at the head of a
disciplined army of nearly 100,000 men.  He was now an old man,
but age had not broken his vigour.  He rapidly overran the
country; an English force, under Colonel Baillie, which opposed
him, was cut to pieces, and Madras itself was threatened.  The
prompt measures adopted by Hastings on this occasion saved the
colony.  Reinforcements were hurried to Madras; the veteran, Sir
Eyre Coote, was entrusted with the command of the army; and the
triumphant                                                        

Page 91                                                           

career of Hyder Ali was checked by the victory of Porto Novo,
July 1st, 1781.  The end of the war, however, was yet far off. 
Peace was concluded with the Mahrattas, on terms honourable to
them, in 1782, but in the south the struggle was still maintained
by Hyder Ali and his French allies, and after Hyder Ali's death,
in December of that year, by his son Tippoo; nor was it brought
to a termination until after the general peace Of 1783.           

To support the financial strain of these wars Hastings had
recourse to measures which, with the colouring given to them by
his enemies, gave subsequent rise to two of the heaviest charges
brought forward by the managers of his impeachment.  His first
victim was Cheyt Sing, the Rajah of Benares, a tributary of the
English Government.  Cheyt Sing had been formerly a vassal of the
Vizier of Oude, and when, in 1775, the vizier transferred his
sovereign rights over Benares to the English, the Bengal
Government confirmed the possession of the city and its
dependencies to Cheyt Sing and his heirs for ever, stipulating
only for the payment of an annual tribute, and undertaking that
the regular payment of this tribute should acquit the Rajah of
further obligations.  It was afterwards contended on behalf of
Hastings that this undertaking did not annul the right of the
superior power to call upon its vassal for extraordinary aid on
extraordinary occasions, and this view was upheld by Pitt.        

Hastings began operations in 1778 by demanding of the Rajah, in
addition to his settled tribute, a large contribution towards the
war expenses.  The sum was paid, but similar requisitions in the
following years were met with procrastination or evasion, and a
demand that the Rajah should furnish a contingent of cavalry was
not complied with.  This conduct on the part of Cheyt Sing
appeared to the Governor-General and his Council "to require
early punishment, and, as his wealth was great and the Company's
exigencies pressing," in 1781 a fine of fifty lakhs, of rupees
(500,000 pounds) was laid upon the unlucky Rajah; Hastings
himself proceeding to Benares, with a small escort, to enforce
payment.  Cheyt Sing received his unwelcome visitor with due
respect, but with ambiguous answers, and Hastings, most
imprudently, gave the order for the Rajah's arrest.  The Rajah
submitted, but his troops and the population of Benares rose to
the rescue : a portion of Hastings's little force was massacred,
the Rajah regained his liberty, and the Governor-General found
safety only in flight.  The insurrection rapidly spread to the
country around, and assumed dangerous proportions, but the
promptitude and vigour of-Hastings soon restored order.  Cheyt
Sing was deposed, compelled to flee his country, his estates were
confiscated, and a new Rajah of Benares was appointed in his
stead.                                                            

The charge subsequently preferred against Hastings in connection
with this affair turned upon the question whether Cheyt Sing Was,
as the prosecutors affirmed, a sovereign prince who owed no duty
to the Bengal government beyond the payment (which he             

Page 92                                                           

had regularly performed) of a fixed annual tribute; or as
Hastings contended, a mere feudal vassal, bound to furnish aid
when called upon by his over-lord.  Pitt, as we have said, took
the latter view, yet he gave his support to the charge on the
ground that the fine imposed upon the Rajah of Benares was
excessive., Upon the whole, it would appear that Hastings was
acting within his rights in demanding an extraordinary subsidy
from the Rajah but the enormous amount of the fine, and the
harshness and in' dignity with which Cheyt Sing was treated,
point to a determination on the part of the Governor-General to
ruin a subject prince, with whom, moreover, it was known he had
personal grounds of pique.                                        

The deposition of Cheyt Sing was followed by an act on which was
afterwards founded the most sensational of all the charges
brought against Warren Hastings.  Shuja-u-Dowlah, the Nawab
Vizier of Oude, to whom Hastings had sold the Rohillas, died in
1775, and was succeeded by his son Asaph-u-Dowlah.  At the time
of his death Shuja-u-Dowlah was deeply in debt, both to his own
army and to the Bengal Government.  The treasure which he left
was estimated at two millions sterling, but this vast sum of
money and certain rich estates were appropriated by his mother
and widow, the begums, or princesses, of Oude, under the pretence
of a will which may possibly have existed, but was certainly
never Produced.  With this wealth at their disposal the begums
enjoyed a practical independence of the new vizier, who was no
match in energy and resolution for his mother and grandmother.  A
small portion, however, of the money was paid over to the vizier,
on the understanding, guaranteed by the Bengal Government, that
the begums should be left in undisturbed enjoyment of the
remainder of their possessions.  Hastings believed, and, it would
seem, on good grounds, that the younger begum had busied herself
actively in fomenting the insurrection which broke out upon the
arrest of Cheyt Sing at Benares.  He conceived a plan by which he
might at once punish the rebellious princesses, and secure for
the exchequer at Calcutta the arrears of debt due from the
Government of Oude.  He withdrew the guarantee, and urged the
Vizier to seize upon the estates possessed by the begums. 
Asaph-u-Dowlah came willingly into the arrangement, but, when it
became necessary to act, his heart failed him.  Hastings,
however, was not to be trifled with.  English troops were
employed: the begums were closely confined in their palace at
Fyzabad; and, to the lasting disgrace of Hastings, their personal
attendants were starved and even tortured, until they consented
to surrender their money and estates.  Hastings's conduct in
withdrawing the guarantee was not without justification ; the
means which he suffered to be employed in carrying out his
purpose, and for the employment of which he must be held
primarily responsible, were utterly indefensible.                 

Page 93                                                           
Long before his return to England, the Governor-General's
proceedings had engaged no little share of public attention in
this country.  In Parliament 
the attack was led by Burke and Fox; 

Hastings's chief defender was one Major Scott, an Indian officer
whom he had sent over to England as his agent in 1780, and who
maintained his patron's cause by voice and pen, in Parliament and
in the press, with far more energy than discretion.  In 1784 Mrs.
Hastings arrived in England, bringing home with her, says
Wraxall, "about 40,000 pounds, acquired without her husband's
privity or approval;" and a year later her husband followed her,
having
resigned his Governor-Generalship.  The fortune which he now
possessed was moderate, his opportunities considered, and had
been honourably acquired; for his motives had never been
mercenary, and the money which he had wrung from Indian princes
had invariably been applied to the service of the Company or the
necessities of his administration.  He was received with honour
by the Directors and with favour by the Court.  There was talk of
a peerage for him, and he believed himself not only beyond
danger, but in the direct road to reward and distinction.  But
all this was the calm which preceded the storm.  The enemies of
Hastings were active and bitterly in earnest, and they were
receiving invaluable assistance from his old opponent in council,
Francis, who had returned to England in 1781.  In April, 1786,
the charges, drawn up by Burke, were laid on the table of the
House of Commons.  The first charge, respecting the Rohilla war,
was thrown out by the House, ministers siding with the accused. 
But on the second charge, relating to the Rajah of Benares, the
Prime Minister, Pitt, declared against Hastings on the ground
that, although the Governor-General had the right to impose a
fine upon his vassal, the amount of the fine was excessive, and
the motion was affirmed by a majority of forty votes.  Early the
next session, in February, 1787, Sheridan moved the third charge,
touching the begums of Oude, in a speech which was pronounced the
most brilliant ever delivered in the House of Commons.  The
majority against Hastings was on this occasion increased to one
hundred and seven, Pitt, as before, supporting the motion.  Other
charges of oppression and corruption were then gone into and
affirmed, and in May, by order of the House, Burke formally
impeached Warren Hastings of high crimes and misdemeanours at the
bar of the House of Lords.  The accused was admitted to bail,
himself in 20,000 pounds, and two sureties in 10,000 pounds each. 
The Committee of Management, elected by the Commons to conduct
the impeachment, included Burke and Fox, Sheridan and Windham,
and the trial was opened before the Lords, in Westminster Hall,
on the 13th of February, 1788.                                    

After two days occupied in reading the charges and the
defendant's replies, Burke arose and opened the case for the
prosecution in a speech full of eloquent exaggeration and
honourable                                                        

Page 94                                                           

zeal in the cause of an oppressed people.  He spoke during days,
after which the Benares charge was brought forward by Fox and
Grey (afterwards Earl Grey), the youngest of the managers, and
that relating to the Begums by Adam and Sheridan.  The court then
adjourned to the next session.  But it is unnecessary here to
follow the details of this famous trial which "dragged its slow
length along" for seven years.  In the spring of 1795 Hastings
was acquitted, by a large majority, on all counts; and, although
his conduct had, in some particulars, been far from faultless,
and the sincerity of his principal accusers was beyond question,
his acquittal must be owned as just as it was honourable,
especially when we remember that his action had been entirely
uninfluenced by considerations of private advantage, that he had
endured for so many anxious years the burden of an impeachment,
that he was ruined in fortune by the expenses of the trial, and
that his great services to his country had been left wholly
without reward.                                                   

His poverty, however, was relieved by the Directors of the East
India Company, who bestowed upon him a pension of 4,000 a year,
and he passed the remainder of his long life in honourable
retirement.  He died in 1818, his wife, to whom he was always
devotedly attached, surviving him by a few Years.                 

The following section contains little besides the account of
Fanny's visits to Westminster Hall during the early days of the
trial.  One other event, however, it relates, of sorrowful
significance to the diarist.  By the death of Mrs. Delany, on the
11th of April, 17; she lost at once a dear and venerated friend,
and her only occasional refuge from the odious tyranny of Court
routine.-ED.]                                                     

Page 95                                                           

          WESTMINSTER HALL AT THE OPENING OF THE HASTINGS TRIAL.  
February 13th.                                                    
O what an interesting transaction does this day open! a day,
indeed, of strong emotion to me, though all upon matters foreign
to any immediate concern of my own--if anything may be called
foreign that deeply interests us, merely because it is not
personal.                                                         

The trial, so long impending, of Mr. Hastings, opened to-day.     

The queen yesterday asked me if I wished to be present at the
beginning, or had rather take another day.  I was greatly obliged
by her condescension, and preferred the opening.  I thought it
would give me a general view of the court, and the manner of
proceeding, and that I might read hereafter the speeches and
evidence.  She then told me she had six tickets from Sir Peter
Burrell, the grand chamberlain, for every day; that three were
for his box, and three for his gallery.  She asked me who I would
go with, and promised me a box-ticket not only for myself, but my
companion.  Nor was this consideration all she showed me for she
added, that as I might naturally wish for my father, she would
have me send him my other ticket.                                 

I thanked her very gratefully, and after dinner went to St.
Martin's-street; but all there was embarrassing: my father could
not go; he was averse to be present at the trial, and he was a
little lame from a fall.  In the end I sent an express to
Hammersmith, to desire Charles(262) to come to me the next
morning by eight o'clock.  I was very sorry not to have my
father, as he had been named by the queen; but I was glad to have
Charles.                                                          

I told her majesty at night the step I had ventured to take, and
she was perfectly content with it.  "But I must trouble you," she
said, "with Miss Gomme, who has no other way to go."              

This morning the queen dispensed with all attendance from me
after her first dressing, that I might haste away.  Mrs.
Schwellenberg was fortunately well enough to take the whole duty,
and the sweet queen not only hurried me off, but sent me some
cakes from her own breakfast-table, that I might                  

Page 96                                                           

carry them, in my pocket, lest I should have no time for eating
before I went.                                                    

Charles was not in time, but we all did well in the end We got to
Westminster Hall between nine and ten O'clock; and, as I know my
dear Susan, like my-self, was never at a trial, I will
give some account of the place and arrangements'; and whether the
description be new to her or old, my partial Fredy will not blame
it.                                                               

The grand chamberlain's box Is in the centre of the upper end of
the Hall: there we sat, Miss Gomme and myself, immediately behind
the chair placed for Sir Peter Burrell.  To the left, on the same
level, were the green benches for the House of Commons, which
occupied a third of the upper end of the Hall, and the whole of
the left side: to the right of us, on the same level, was the
grand chamberlain's gallery.                                      

The right side of the Hall, opposite to the green benches for the
commons, was appropriated to the peeresses and peers' daughters. 
The bottom of the Hall contained the royal family's box and the
lord high steward's, above which was a large gallery appointed
for receiving company with peers' tickets.                        

A gallery also was run along the left side of the Hall, above the
green benches, which is called the Duke of Newcastle's box, the
centre of which was railed off into a separate apartment for the
reception of the queen and four eldest princesses, who were then
incog., not choosing to appear in state, and in their own box.    

Along the right side of the Hall ran another gallery, over the
seats of the peeresses, and this was divided into boxes for
various people--the lord chamberlain, (not the great
chamberlain,) the surveyor, architect, etc.                       

So much for all the raised buildings ; now for the disposition of
the Hall itself, or ground.  In the middle was placed a large
table, and at the head of it the seat for the chancellor, and
round it seats for the judges, the masters in chancery, the
clerks, and all who belonged to the law; the upper end, and the
right side of the room, was allotted to the peers in their robes;
the left side to the bishops and archbishops.                     

Immediately below the great chamberlain's box was the place
allotted for the prisoner.  On his right side was a box for his
own counsel, on his left the box for the managers, or committee,
for the prosecution; and these three most important of all the
divisions in the Hall were all directly adjoining to where I was
seated.                                                           

Almost the moment I entered I was spoken to by a lady I           

Page 97                                                           
did not recollect, but found afterwards to be Lady Claremont and
this proved very agreeable, for she took Sir Peter's place: and
said she would occupy it till he claimed it; and then, when just
before me, she named to me all the order of the buildings, and
all the company, pointing out every distinguished person, and
most obligingly desiring me to ask her any questions I wanted to
have solved, as she knew, she said, "all those creatures that
filled the green benches, looking so little like gentlemen, and
so much like hair-dressers," These were the Commons.  In truth,
she did the honours of the Hall to me with as much good nature
and good breeding as if I had been a foreigner of distinction, to
whom she had dedicated her time and attention.  My acquaintance
with her had been made formerly at Mrs. Vesey's.                  

The business did not begin till near twelve o'clock.  The opening
to the whole then took place, by the entrance of the managers of
the prosecution; all the company were already long in their boxes
or galleries.  I shuddered, and drew Involuntarily back, when, as
the doors were flung open, I saw Mr. Burke, as head of the
committee, make his solemn entry.  He held a scroll in his hand,
and walked alone, his brow knit with corroding care and deep
labouring thought,---a brow how different to that which had
proved so alluring to my warmest admiration when first I met him!
so highly as he had been my favourite, so captivating as I had
found his manners; and conversation in our first acquaintance,
and so much as I had owed to his zeal and kindness to me and my
affairs in its progress! How did I grieve to behold him now the
cruel prosecutor (such to me he appeared) of an injured and
innocent man!                                                     

Mr. Fox followed next, Mr. Sheridan, Mr. Windham, Messrs.
Anstruther, Grey, Adam, Michael Angelo Taylor, Pelham, Colonel
North, Mr. Frederick Montagu, Sir Gilbert Elliot, General
Burgoyne, Dudley Long, etc.  They were all named over to me by
Lady Claremont, or I should not have recollected even those of my
acquaintance, from the shortness of my sight,                     

When the committee box was filled the House of Commons at large
took their seats on their green benches, which stretched, as I
have said, along the whole left side of the Hall, and, taking in
a third of the upper end, joined to the great Chamberlain's box,
from which nothing separated them but a Partition of about two
feet in height.                                                   

Then began the procession, the clerks entering first, then        

Page 98                                                           

the lawyers according to their rank, and the peers, bishops, and
officers, all in their coronation robes; concluding with the
princes of the blood,--Prince William, son to the Duke of
Gloucester, coming first, then the Dukes of Cumberland,
Gloucester, and York, then the Prince of Wales; and the whole
ending by the chancellor, with his train borne.  They then all
took their seats.                                                 


                    WARREN HASTINGS APPEARS AT THE BAR.

A sergeant-at- arms arose, and commanded silence in court, on
pain of imprisonment.  Then some other officer, in a loud voice,
called out, as well as I can recollect, words to this purpose:--
"Warren Hastings, esquire, come forth! Answer to the charges
brought against you; save your bail, or forfeit your
recognizance."                                                    

 Indeed I trembled at these words, and hardly Could
keep my place when I found Mr. Hastings was being brought to the
bar.  He came forth from some place immediately under the great
chamberlain's box, and was preceded by Sir Francis Molyneux,
gentleman-usher of the black rod; and at each side of him walked
his bail, Messrs. Sulivan and Sumner.                             

The moment he came in sight, which was not for full ten minutes
after his awful summons, he made a low bow to the chancellor and
court facing him.  I saw not his face, as he was directly under
me.  He moved on slowly, and, I think, supported between his two
bails, to the opening of his own box; there, lower still, he
bowed again; and then, advancing to the bar, he leant his hands
upon it, and dropped on his knees; but a voice in the same minute
proclaiming he had leave to rise, he stood up almost
instantaneously, and a third time, profoundly bowed to the court. 

What an awful moment this for such a man!--a man fallen from such
height of power to a situation so humiliating--from the almost
unlimited command of so large a part of the eastern World to be
cast at the feet of his enemies, of the great tribunal of his
country, and of the nation at large, assembled thus in a body to
try and to judge him!  Could even his prosecutors at that moment
look on--and not shudder at least, if they did not blush?         

The crier, I think it was, made, in a loud and hollow voice, a
public proclamation, "That Warren Hastings, esquire, late
governor-general of Bengal, was now on his trial for high         

Page 99                                                           
crimes and misdemeanours, with which he was charged by the
commons of Great Britain; and that all persons whatsoever who had
aught to allege against him were now to stand forth."             
     

A general silence followed, and the chancellor, Lord Thurlow, now
made his speech.  I will give it you to the best of my power from
memory; the newspapers have printed it far less accurately than I
have retained it, though I am by no means exact or secure.        



THE LORD CHANCELLOR'S SPEECH.

Warren Hastings, you are now brought into this court to answer to
the charge, brought against you by the knights, esquires,
burgesses, and commons of Great Britain--charges now standing
only as allegations, by them to be legally proved, or by you to
be disproved.  Bring forth your answer and defence, with that
seriousness, respect, and truth, due to accusers so respectable. 
Time has been allowed you for preparation, proportioned to the
intricacies in which the transactions are involved, and to the
remote distances whence your documents may have been searched and
required.  You will be allowed bail, for the better forwarding
your defence, and-whatever you can require will still be yours,
of time, witnesses, and all things else you may hold necessary. 
This is not granted you as any indulgence: it is entirely your
due: it is the privilege which every British subject has a right
to claim, and which is due to every one who is brought before
this high tribunal."                                              

This speech, uttered in a calm, equal, solemn manner, and in a
voice mellow and penetrating, with eyes keen and black, yet
softened into some degree of tenderness while fastened full upon
the prisoner--this speech, its occasion, its portent, and its
object, had an effect upon every hearer of producing the most
respectful attention, and, out of the committee box at least, the
strongest emotions in the cause of Mr. Hastings.  Again Mr.
Hastings made the lowest reverence to the court, and, leaning
over the bar answered, with much agitation, through evident
efforts to suppress it, "My lords --Impressed--deeply impressed--
I come before your lordships, equally confident in my own
integrity, and in the justice of the court before which I am to
clear it."                                                        

"Impressed" and "deeply impressed," too, was my mind, by this
short yet comprehensive speech, and all my best wishes            

Page 100                                                          

for his clearance and redress rose warmer than ever in my heart.  


                   THE READING OF THE CHARGES COMMENCED.

A general silence again ensued, and then one of the lawyers
opened the cause.  He began by reading from an immense roll of
parchment the general charges against Mr. Hastings, but he read
in so monotonous a chant that nothing more could I hear or
understand than now and then the name of Warren Hastings.         

During this reading, to which I vainly lent all my attention, Mr.
Hastings, finding it, I presume, equally impossible to hear a
word, began to cast his eyes around the house, and having taken a
survey of all in front and at the sides, he turned about and
looked up; pale looked his face--pale, ill, and altered.  I was
much affected by the sight of that dreadful harass which 
was written on his countenance.  Had I looked at him without
restraint, it could not have been without tears.  I felt shocked,
too, shocked and ashamed, to be seen by him in that place.  I had
wished to be present from an earnest interest in the business,
joined to a firm confidence in his powers of defence; but his
eyes were not those I wished to meet in Westminster Hall.  I
called upon Miss Gomme and Charles to assist me in looking
another way, and in conversing with me as I turned aside, and I
kept as much aloof as possible till he had taken his survey, and
placed himself again in front.                                    

>From this time, however, he frequently looked round, and I was
soon without a doubt that he must see me. . . . In a few minutes
more, while this reading was still continued, I perceived Sir
Joshua Reynolds in the midst of the committee.  He, at the same
moment, saw me also, and not only bowed, but smiled and nodded
with his usual good-humour and 
intimacy, making at the same time a sign to his ear, by which I
understood he had no trumpet; whether he had forgotten or lost it
I know not.                                                       

I would rather have answered all this dumb show anywhere else, as
my last ambition was that of being noticed from such a box.  I
again entreated aid in turning away; but Miss Gomme, who is a
friend of Sir Gilbert Elliot, one of the managers and an
ill-wisher, for his sake, to the opposite cause, would only
laugh, and ask why I should not be owned by them.                 

I did not, however, like it, but had no choice from my near       

Page 101                                                          

situation; and in a few seconds I had again a bow, and a
profound one, and again very ridiculously I was obliged to
inquire of Lady Claremont who my own acquaintance might be.  Mr.
Richard Burke, senior, she answered.  He is a brother of the
great--great in defiance of all drawbacks--Edmund Burke.          

Another lawyer now arose, and read so exactly in the same manner,
that it was utterly impossible to discover even whether it was a
charge or an answer.  Such reading as this, you may well suppose,
set every body pretty much at their ease and but for the interest
I took in looking from time to time at Mr. Hastings, and watching
his countenance, I might as well have been away.  He seemed
composed after the first half-hour, and calm; but he looked with
a species of indignant contempt towards his accusers, that could
not, I think, have been worn had his defence been doubtful.  Many
there are who fear for him; for me, I own myself wholly confident
in his acquittal.                                                 


                           AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.

Soon after, a voice just by my side, from the green benches,
said, "Will Miss Burney allow me to renew my acquaintance with
her?"  I turned about and saw Mr. Crutchley.                      

All Streatham rose to my mind at sight of him.  I have never
beheld him since the Streatham society was abolished.  We entered
instantly upon the subject of that family, a Subject ever to me
the most Interesting.  He also had never seen poor Mrs.  Thrale
since her return to England; but he joined with me very earnestly
in agreeing that, since so unhappy a step 
was now past recall, it became the duty, however painful a one,
of the daughters, to support, not cast off and contemn, one who
was now as much their mother as when she still bore their own
name.                                                             

"But how," cried he, "do you stand the fiery trial of this
Streatham book that is coming upon us?"                           

I acknowledged myself very uneasy about it, and he assured me all
who had ever been at Streatham were in fright and consternation. 
We talked all these matters over more at length, till I was
called away by an "How d'ye do, Miss Burney?" from the committee
box! And then I saw young Mr. Burke, who had jumped up on the
nearest form to speak to me.                                      

Pleasant enough!  I checked my vexation as well as I was able,
since the least shyness on my part to those with whom             

Page 102                                                          

formerly I had been social must instantly have been attributed to
Court influence; and therefore, since I could not avoid the
notice, I did what I could to talk with him as heretofore.  He is
besides so amiable a young man that I could not be sorry to see
him again, though I regretted it should be Just In that place,
and at this time.                                                 

While we talked together, Mr. Crutchley went back to his more
distant seat, and the moment I was able to withdraw from young
Mr. Burke, Charles, who sat behind me, leant down and told me a
gentleman had just desired to be presented to me.                 

"Who?" quoth I.                                                   

" Mr. Windham," he answered.                                      

I really thought he was laughing, and answered accordingly, but
he assured me he was in earnest, and that Mr. Windham had begged
him to make the proposition.  What could I do? There was no
refusing; yet a planned meeting with another of the committee,
and one deep in the prosecution, and from whom one of the hardest
charges has come(263)--could anything be less pleasant as I was
then situated?  The great chamberlain's box is the only part of
the Hall that has any communication with either the committee box
or the House of Commons, and it is also the very nearest to the
prisoner.                                                         


                        WILLIAM WINDHAM) ESQ., M.P.

Mr. Windham I had seen twice before-both times at Miss
Monckton's; and anywhere else I should have been much gratified
by his desire of a third meeting, as he is one of the most
agreeable, spirited, well-bred, and brilliant conversers I have
ever spoken with.  He is a neighbour, too, now, of                

Page 103                                                          

Charlotte's.  He is member for Norwich, and a man of family and
fortune, with a very pleasing though not handsome face, a very
elegant figure, and an air of fashion and vivacity.               

The conversations I had had with him at Miss Monckton's had been,
wholly- by his own means, extremely spirited and entertaining.  I
was sorry to see him make one of a set that appeared so
inveterate against a man I believe so injuriously treated; and my
concern was founded upon the good thoughts I had conceived of
him, not merely from his social talents, which are yet very
uncommon, but from a reason clearer to my remembrance.  He loved
Dr. Johnson,-and Dr. Johnson returned his affection.  Their
political principles and connexions were opposite, but Mr.
Windham respected his venerable friend too highly to discuss any
points that could offend him ; and showed for him so true a
regard, that, during all his late illnesses, for the latter part
of his life, his carriage and himself were alike at his service,
to air, visit, or go out, whenever he was disposed to accept
them.                                                             

Nor was this all; one tender proof he gave of warm and generous
regard, that I can never forget, and that rose instantly to my
mind when I heard his name, and gave him a welcome in my eyes
when they met his face : it is this: Dr. Johnson, in his last
visit to Lichfield, was taken ill, and waited to recover strength
for travelling back to town in his usual vehicle, a stage-coach--
as soon as this reached the ears of Mr. Windham, he set off for
Lichfield in his own carriage, to offer to bring hint back to
town in it, and at his own time.                                  

For a young man of fashion, such a trait towards an old, however
dignified philosopher, must surely be a mark indisputable of an
elevated mind and character; and still the more strongly it
marked a noble way of thinking, as it was done in favour of a
person in open opposition to his own party, and declared
prejudices.                                                       

Charles soon told me he was it my elbow.  He had taken the place
Mr. Crutchley had just left.  The abord was, oil my , part, very
awkward, from the distress I felt lest Mr. Hastings should look
up, and from a conviction that I must not name                    
Page 104                                                          

that gentleman, of whom alone I could then think, to a person in
a committee against him.                                          

He, however, was easy, having no embarrassing thoughts, since the
conference was of his own seeking.  'Twas so long since I had
seen him, that I almost wonder he remembered me.  After the first
compliments he looked around him, and exclaimed "What an assembly
is this!  How striking a spectacle! I had not seen half its
splendour down there.  You have it here to great advantage; you
lose some of the lords, but you gain all the ladies.  You have a
very good place here,"                                            

"Yes and I may safely say I make a very impartial use of it for
since here I have sat, I have never discovered to which side I
have been listening!"                                             

He laughed, but told me they were then running through the
charges.                                                          

"And is it essential," cried I, "that they should so run them
through that nobody can understand them?  Is that a form of law?" 

He agreed to the absurdity - and then, looking still at the
spectacle, which indeed is the most splendid I ever saw, arrested
his eyes upon the chancellor.                                     

"He looks very well from hence," cried he; "and how well he
acquits himself on these solemn occasions! With what dignity,
what loftiness, what high propriety, he comports himself!"        

This praise to the chancellor, who is a known friend to Mr.
Hastings, though I believe he would be the last to favour him
unjustly now he is on trial, was a pleasant sound to my ear, and
confirmed my original idea of the liberal disposition of my new
associate.  i joined heartily in the commendation, and warmly
praised his speech.                                               

"Even a degree of pompousness," cried I, "in such a court as
this, seems a propriety."                                         

"Yes," said he "but his speech had one word that might as well
have been let alone: 'mere allegations' he called the charges;
the word 'mere,' at least, might have been spared, especially as
it is already strongly suspected on which side he leans!"         

I protested, and with truth, I had not heard the word in his
speech; but he still affirmed it.                                 

"Surely," I said, "he was as fair and impartial as possible: he
called the accusers 'so respectable!'"                            

"Yes, but 'mere--mere' was no word for this occasion and it could
not be unguarded, for he would never come to                      

Page 105                                                          
speak in such a court as this, without some little thinking
beforehand.  However, he is a fine fellow,--a very fine fellow!
and though, in his private life, guilty of so many inaccuracies,
in his public capacity I really hold him to be unexceptionable."  

This fairness, from an oppositionist professed, brought me at
once to easy terms with him.  I begged him to inform me for what
reason, at the end of the chancellor's speech, there had been a
cry of "Hear! hear! hear him!" which had led me to expect another
speech, when I found no other seemed intended.  He laughed very
much, and confessed that, as a parliament man, he was so used to
that absurdity, that he had ceased to regard it; for that it was
merely a mark of approbation to a speech already spoken; "And, in
fact, they only," cried he, "say 'Hear!' when there is nothing
more to be heard!"  Then, still looking at the scene before him,
he suddenly laughed, and said, "I must not, to Miss Burney, make
this remark, but-it is observable that in the king's box sit the
Hawkesbury family, while, next to the Speaker, who is here as a
sort of representative of the king, sits Major Scott!"            

I knew his inference, of Court influence in favour of Mr.
Hastings, but I thought it best to let it pass quietly.  I knew,
else, I should only be supposed under the same influence myself. 
Looking still on, he next noticed the two archbishops. "And see,"
cried he, "the Archbishop of York, Markham,--see how he affects
to read the articles of impeachment, as if he was still open to
either side!  My good lord archbishop! your grace might, with
perfect safety, spare your eyes, for your mind has been made up
upon this subject before ever it was investigated.  He holds
Hastings to be the greatest man in the world--for Hastings
promoted the interest of his son in the East Indies!"             


                 WINDHAM INVEIGHS AGAINST WARREN HASTINGS. 
Somewhat sarcastic, this - but I had as little time as power for
answering, since now, and suddenly, his eye dropped down upon
poor Mr. Hastings; the expression of his face instantly lost the
gaiety and ease with which it had addressed me; he stopped short
in his remarks; he fixed his eyes steadfastly on this new, and
but too interesting object, and after viewing him                 

106                                                               

some time in a sort of earnest silence, he suddenly exclaimed as
if speaking to himself, and from an impulse irresistible
"What a sight is that! to see that man, that small portion of
human clay, that poor feeble machine of earth, enclosed now in
that little space, brought to that bar, a prisoner in a spot six
foot square--and to reflect on his late power!  Nations at his
command!  Princes prostrate at his feet!--What a change! how Must
he feel it!--"                                                    

He stopped, and I said not a word.  I was glad to see him thus
impressed; I hoped it might soften his enmity.  I found, by his
manner, that he had never, from the committee box, looked at him. 
He broke forth again, after a pause of Some length,--"Wonderful
indeed! almost past credibility, is such a reverse!  He that, so
lately, had the Eastern world nearly at his beck; he, under whose
tyrant power princes and potentates sunk and trembled; he, whose
authority was without the reach of responsibility!--"             

Again he stopped, seeming struck, almost beyond the power of
speech, with meditative commiseration ; but then, suddenly
rousing himself, as if recollecting his "almost blunted purpose,"
he passionately exclaimed, "Oh could those--the thousands, the
millions, who have groaned and languished under the iron rod of
his oppressions- -could they but--whatever region they inhabit--
be permitted one dawn of light to look into this Hall, and see
him there!  There--where he now stands--It might prove, perhaps,
some recompense for their sufferings!"                            

I can hardly tell you, my dearest Susan, how shocked I felt at
these words! words so hard, and following sensations so much more
pitying and philosophic!  I cannot believe Mr. Hastings guilty; I
feel in myself a strong internal evidence of his innocence, drawn
from all I have seen of him; I can only regard the prosecution as
a party affair; but yet, since his adversaries now openly stake
their names, fame, and character against him, I did not think it
decent to intrude such an opinion.  I could only be sorry, and
silent.                                                           

Still he looked at him, earnest in rumination, and as if unable
to turn away his eyes; and presently he again exclaimed, "How
wonderful an instance of the instability of mortal power is
presented ]In that object!  From possessions so extensive, from a
despotism so uncontrolled.  to see him, now there, in that small
circumference!  In the history Of human nature how memorable will
be the records of this day! 

Page 107                                                          

a day that brings to the great tribunal of the nation a man whose
power, so short a time since, was of equal magnitude with his
crimes!"                                                          

Good heaven! thought I, and do you really believe all this? Can
Mr. Hastings appear to you such a monster? and are you not merely
swayed by party? I could not hear him without shuddering, nor see
him thus in earnest without alarm.  I thought myself no longer
bound to silence, since I saw, by the continuance as well as by
the freedom of his exclamations, he conceived me of the same
sentiments with himself; and therefore I hardily resolved to make
known to him that mistake, which, indeed, was a liberty that
seemed no longer impertinent, but a mere act of justice and
honesty.                                                          

His very expressive pause, his eyes still steadfastly fixed on
Mr. Hastings, gave me ample opportunity for speaking - though I
had some little difficulty how to get out what I wished to say. 
However, in the midst of his reverie, I broke forth, but not
without great hesitation, and, very humbly, I said, "Could you
pardon me, Mr. Windham, If I should forget, for a moment, that
you are a committee man, and speak to you frankly?"               

He looked surprised, but laughed at the question, and very
eagerly called out "Oh yes, yes, pray speak out, I beg it!"       

"Well, then, may I venture to say to you that I believe it
utterly impossible for any one, not particularly engaged on the
contrary side, ever to enter a court of justice, and not
instantly, and involuntarily, wish well to the prisoner!"         

His surprise subsided by this general speech, which I had not
courage to put in a more pointed way, and he very readily 
answered, "'Tis natural, certainly, and what must almost
unavoidably be the first impulse; yet, where justice--"           

I stopped him; I saw I was not comprehended, and thought else he
might say something to stop me.                                   

"May I," I said, " go yet a little farther ?                      

"Yes," cried he, with a very civil smile, "and I feel an assent
beforehand."                                                      

" Supposing then, that even you, if that may be supposed, could
be divested of all knowledge of the particulars of this affair,
and in the same state of general Ignorance that I confess myself
to be, and could then, like me, have seen Mr. Hastings make his
entrance into this court, and looked at him when he was brought
to that bar; not even you, Mr. Windham, could then have reflected
on such a vicissitude for him, on all he has                      

Page 108                                                          

left and all he has lost, and not have given him, like me, all
your best wishes the moment you beheld him."                      

The promised assent came not, though he was too civil to
contradict me ; but still I saw he Understood me only in a
general sense.  I feared going farther : a weak advocate is apt
to be a mischievous one and, as I knew nothing, it was not to a
professed enemy I could talk of what I only believed.             
Recovering, now, from the strong emotion with which the sight of
Mr. Hastings had filled him, he looked again around the court,
and pointed out several of the principal characters present, with
arch and striking remarks upon each of them, all uttered with
high spirit, but none with ill-nature.                            

("Pitt," cried he, "is not here!--a noble stroke that for the
annals of his administration!  A trial is brought on by the whole
House of Commons In a body, and he is absent at the very opening! 
However," added he, with a very meaning laugh, "I'm glad of it,
for 'tis to his eternal disgrace!"                                

Mercy! thought I, what a friend to kindness Is party!             

"Do you see Scott?" cried he.                                     

"No, I never saw him; pray show him to me,"                       

"There he is, in green; just now by the Speaker, now moved by the
committee; in two minutes more he will be somewhere else,
skipping backwards and forwards; what a grasshopper it is!"       

"I cannot look at him," cried I, "without recollecting a very
extraordinary letter from him, that I read last summer in the
newspaper, where he answers some attack that he says has been
made upon him, because the term is used of 'a very insignificant
fellow,' and he printed two or three letters in 'The Public
Advertiser,' in following days, to prove, with great care and
pains, that he knew it was all meant as an abuse of himself, from
those words!"                                                     

"And what," cried he, laughing, "do you say to that notion now
you see him?"                                                     

"That no one," cried I, examining him with my glass, "can
possibly dispute his claim!"                                      

What pity that Mr. Hastings should have trusted his cause to so
frivolous an agent!  I believe, and indeed it is the general
belief, both of foes and friends, that to his officious and
injudicious zeal the present prosecution is wholly owing.         

Next, Mr. Windham pointed out Mr. Francis to me.  'TIS a singular
circumstance, that the friend who most loves and the enemy Who
most hates Mr. Hastings should bear the same                      

Page 109                                                          

name!(264)  Mr. Windham, with all the bias of party, gave me then
the highest character of this Mr. Francis, whom he called one of
the most ill-used of men.  Want of documents how to answer forced
me to be silent, oppositely as I thought.  But it was a very
unpleasant situation to me, as I saw that Mr. Windham still
conceived me to have no other interest than a common, and
probably to his mind, a weak compassion for the prisoner--that
prisoner who, frequently looking around, saw me, I am certain,
and saw with whom I was engaged.                                  

The subject of Mr. Francis again drew him back to Mr. Hastings,
but with more severity of mind.  "A prouder heart," cried he, "an
ambition more profound, were never, I suppose, lodged in any
mortal mould than in that man! With what a port he entered!  did
you observe him? his air!  I saw not his face, but his air his
port!"                                                            

"Surely there," cried I, "he could not be to blame! He comes upon
his defence; ought he to look as if he gave himself up?"          

"Why no; 'tis true he must look what vindication to himself he
can; we must not blame him there."                                

Encouraged by this little concession, I resolved to venture
farther, and once more said "May I again, Mr. Windham, forget
that you are a committee-man, and say something not fit for a
committee man to hear?"                                           

"O yes!" cried he, laughing very much, and looking extremely
curious.                                                          

"I must fairly, then, own myself utterly ignorant upon this
subject, and--and--may I go on?"                                  

"I beg you will!"                                                 

"Well, then,--and originally prepossessed in favour of the
object!"                                                          

He quite started, and with a look of surprise from which all
pleasure was separated, exclaimed--"Indeed!"                      

"Yes!"  cried I, "'tis really true, and really out, now!"         

"For Mr. Hastings, prepossessed!" he repeated, in a tone that
seemed to say--do you not mean Mr. Burke?                         

Page 110                                                          

"Yes," I said, "for Mr. Hastings!  But I should not have presumed
to own it just at this time,--so little as I am able to do honour
to my prepossession by any materials to defend it,--but that you
have given me courage, by appearing so free from all malignity in
the business.  Tis, therefore, Your own fault!"                   

"But can you speak seriously," cried he, " "when You say you know
nothing of this business?"                                        

"Very seriously: I never entered into it at all; it was always
too intricate to tempt me."                                       

"But, surely you must have read the charges?"                     

"No; they are so long, I had never the courage to begin."         

The conscious look with which he heard this, brought--all too
late--to my remembrance, that one of them was drawn up, and
delivered in the House, by himself! I was really very sorry to
have been so unfortunate; but I had no way to call back the
words, so was quiet, perforce.                                    

"Come then," cried he, emphatically, "to hear Burke! come and
listen to him, and you will be mistress of the whole.  Hear
Burke, and read the charges of the Begums, and then you will form
your judgment without difficulty."                                

I would rather (thought I) hear him upon any other subject: but I
made no answer; I only said, "Certainly, I can gain nothing by
what is going forward to-day.  I meant to come to the opening
now, but it seems rather like the shutting up!"                   

He was not to be put off.  "You will come, however, to hear
Burke?  To hear truth, reason, justice, eloquence!  You will then
see, in other colours, 'That man!' There is more cruelty, more
oppression, more tyranny, in that little machine, with an
arrogance, a self-confidence, unexampled, unheard of!"            


                   MISS BURNEY BATTLES FOR THE ACCUSED.

"Indeed, sir!" cried I; "that does not appear, to those who know
him and--I--know him a little."                                   

"Do you?" cried he earnestly; "personally, do you know him?"      

"Yes; and from that knowledge arose this prepossession I have
confessed."                                                       

"Indeed, what you have seen of him have you then so much
approved?"                                                        

"Yes, very much! I must own the truth!"                           

"But you have not seen much of him?"                              

Page 111                                                          

"No, not lately.  My first knowledge of him was almost
immediately upon his coming from India; I had heard nothing of
all these accusations; I had never been in the way of hearing
them, and knew not even that there were any to be heard.  I saw
him, therefore, quite without prejudice, for or against him ; and
indeed, I must own, he soon gave me a strong interest in his
favour."                                                          

The surprise with which he heard me must have silenced me on the
subject, had it not been accompanied with an attention so earnest
as to encourage me still to proceed.  It is evident to me that
this committee live so much shut Lip with one another, that they
conclude all the world of the same opinions with themselves, and
universally imagine that the tyrant they think themselves
pursuing is a monster in every part of his life, and held in
contempt and abhorrence by all mankind.  Could I then be sorry,
seeing this, to contribute my small mite towards clearing, at
least, so very wide a mistake? On the contrary, when I saw he
listened, I was most eager to give him all I could to hear,       

"I found him," I continued, "so mild, so gentle, so extremely
pleasing in his manners--"                                        

"Gentle!" cried he, with quickness.                               

"Yes, Indeed; gentle even to humility--"                          

"Humility?  Mr. Hastings and humility!"                           

"Indeed it is true; he is perfectly diffident in the whole of his
manner, when engaged in conversation; and so much struck was I,
at that very time, by seeing him so simple, so unassuming, when
just returned from a government that had accustomed him to a
power superior to our monarchs here, that it produced an effect
upon my mind in his favour which nothing can erase!"              

"Yes, Yes!" cried he, with great energy, "you will give it up! 
you must lose it, must give it up! it will be plucked away,
rooted wholly out of your mind ."                                 

"Indeed, sir," cried I, steadily, "I believe not!"                

"You believe not?" repeated he, with added animation; "then there
will be the more glory in making you a convert!"                  

If "conversion" is the word, thought I, I would rather make than
be made.                                                          

"But --Mr. Windham," cried I, "all my amazement now is at your
condescension in speaking to me upon this business at all, when I
have confessed to you my total ignorance of the subject, and my
original prepossession in favour of the object.  Why              

Page 112                                                          

do you not ask me when I was at the play ? and how I liked the
last opera?"                                                      

He laughed; and we talked on a little while in that strain, till
again, suddenly fixing his eyes on poor Mr. Hastings, his gaiety
once more vanished, and he gravely and severely examined his
countenance.  "'Tis surely," cried he, "an unpleasant one.  He
does not know, I suppose, 'tis reckoned like his own!"            

"How should he," cried I, "look otherwise than unpleasant here?"  

"True," cried he; "yet still, I think, his features, his look,
his whole expression, unfavourable to him.  I never saw him but
once before; that was at the bar of the House of Commons and
there, as Burke admirably said, he looked, when first he glanced
an eye against him, like a hungry tiger, ready to howl for his
prey!"                                                            

"Well," cried I, "I am sure he does not look fierce now!
Contemptuous, a little, I think he does look!"                    

I was sorry I used this word; yet its truth forced it to escape
me.  He did not like it; he repeated it; he could not but be sure
the contempt could only be levelled at his prosecutors.  I feared
discussion, and flew off as fast as I could, to softer ground. 
"It was not," cried I, "with that countenance he gave me my
prepossession! Very differently, indeed, he looked then!"         

"And can he ever look pleasant? can that face ever obtain an
expression that is pleasing?"                                     

"Yes, indeed and in truth, very pleasant!  It was in the country
I first saw him, and without any restraint on his part; I saw
him, therefore, perfectly natural and easy.  And no one, let me
say, could so have seen him without being pleased with him--his
quietness and serenity, joined to his intelligence and
information--"                                                    

"His information?--in what way?"                                  

"In such a way as suited his hearer: not upon committee
business--of all that I knew nothing.  The only conversation in
which I could mix was upon India, considered simply as, a country
in which he had travelled; and his communications upon the
people, the customs, habits, cities, and whatever I could name,
were so instructive as well as entertaining, that I think I never
recollect gaining more intelligence, or more pleasantly conveyed,
from any conversation in which I ever have been engaged."         
                                               

Page 113                                                          

To this he listened with an attention that, but for the secret
zeal which warmed me must have silenced and shamed me.  I am
satisfied this committee have concluded Mr. Hastings a mere man
of blood, with slaughter and avarice for his sole ideas!  The
surprise with which he heard this just testimony to his social
abilities was only silent from good-breeding, but his eyes
expressed what his tongue withheld; something that satisfied me
he concluded                                                      

I had undesignedly been duped by him.  I answered this silence by
saying "There was no object for hypocrisy, for it was quite in
retirement I met with him : it was not lately ; it is near two
years since I have seen him; he had therefore no point to gain
with me, nor was there any public character, nor any person
whatever, that Could induce him to act a part; yet was he all I
have said-informing, Communicative, instructive, and at the same
time, gentle and highly pleasing."                                

"Well," said he, very civilly, "I begin the less to wonder, now,
that You have adhered to his side; but--"                         

"To see him, then," cried I, stopping his 'but,'--"to see him
brought to that bar! and kneeling at it!--indeed, Mr. Windham, I
must own to you, I could hardly keep my seat--hardly forbear
rising and running out of the Hall."                              

"Why, there," cried he, "I agree with you!  'Tis certainly a
humiliation not to be wished or defended: it is, indeed, a mere
ceremony, a mere formality; but it is a mortifying one, and so
obsolete, so unlike the practices of the times, so repugnant from
a gentleman to a gentleman, that I myself 
looked another way: it hurt me, and I wished it dispensed with."  

"O, Mr. Windham," cried I, surprised and pleased, "and can you be
so liberal?"                                                      

"Yes," cried he, laughing, "but 'tis only to take you in!"        

Afterwards he asked what his coat was, whether blue Or purple;
and said, "is it not customary for a prisoner to come black?"     

"Whether or not," quoth I, "I am heartily glad he has not done
it; why should he seem so dismal, so shut out from hope?"         

"Why, I believe he is in the right.  I think he has judged that
not ill."                                                         

"O, don't be so candid," cried I, "I beg you not."                

"Yes, yes, I must; and you know the reason," cried he, gaily; but
presently exclaimed, "one unpleasant thing belong-                

Page 114                                                          

ing to being a manager is that I must now go and show myself in
the committee."
And then he very civilly bowed, and went down to his box, leaving
me much persuaded that I had never yet been engaged in a
conversation so curious, from its circumstances, in my life.  The
warm well-wisher myself of the prisoner, though formerly the
warmest admirer of his accuser, engaged, even at his trial and in
his presence, in so open a discussion with one of his principal
prosecutors; and the queen herself in full view, unavoidably
beholding me in close and eager conference with an avowed member
of the opposition!                                                

These circumstances made me at first enter into discourse with
Mr. Windham with the utmost reluctance ; but though I wished to
shun him, I could not, when once attacked, decline to converse
with him.  It would but injure the cause of Mr. Hastings to seem
to fear hearing the voice of his accusers; and it could but be
attributed to undue court-influence had I avoided any intercourse
with an acquaintance so long ago established as a member of the
opposition.                                                       


                  A WEARIED M.P.-MR. CRUTCHLEY REAPPEARS.

In the midst of the opening of a trial such as this, so important
to the country as well as to the individual who is tried, what
will you say to a man--a member of the House of Commons who kept
exclaiming almost perpetually, just at my side, "What a bore!-
-when will it be over?--Must one come any more?--I had a great
mind not to have come at all.--Who's that?--Lady Hawkesbury and
the Copes?--Yes.--A pretty girl, Kitty.--Well, when will they
have done?--I wish they'd call the question--I should vote it a
bore at once!                                                     

just such exclamations as these were repeated, without
intermission, till the gentleman departed: and who should it be
that spoke with so much legislative wisdom but Mr. W---!          

In about two or three hours--this reading still lasting--Mr.
Crutchley came to me again.  He, too, was so wearied, that he was
departing; but he stayed some time to talk over our constant
topic--my poor Mrs. Thrale.  How little does he suspect the
interest I unceasingly take in her--the avidity with which I
seize every opportunity to gather the smallest intelligence
concerning her!                                                   

One little trait of Mr. Crutchley, so characteristic of that
queerness which distinguishes him, I must mention.  He said       

Page 115                                                          

he questioned whether he should comme any more: I told him I had
imagined the attendance of every member to be indispensable. 
"No," cried he, "ten to one if another day they are able to make
a house!"                                                         

"The Lords, however, I suppose, must come?"                       

"Not unless they like it."                                        

" But I hear if they do not attend they have no tickets."         

"Why, then, Miss Primrose and Miss Cowslip must stay away too!"   

I had the pleasure to find him entirely for Mr. Hastings, and to
hear he had constantly voted on his side through every stage of
the business.  He is a very independent man, and a man of real
good character, and, with all his oddity, of real understanding. 
We compared notes very amicably upon this subject, and both
agreed that those who looked for every flaw in the conduct of a
man in so high and hazardous a station, ought first to have
weighed his merits and his difficulties.                          


                  MR. WINDHAM DISCUSSES THE IMPEACHMENT.

A far more interesting conference, however, was now awaiting me. 
Towards the close of the day Mr. Windham very unexpectedly came
again from the committee-box, and seated himself by my side.  I
was glad to see by this second visit that my frankness had not
offended him.  He began, too, in so open and social a manner,
that I was satisfied he forgave it.                               

"I have been," cried he, "very busy since I left you.--writing--
reading--making documents."                                       

I saw he was much agitated ; the gaiety which seems natural to
him was flown, and had left in its place the most evident and
unquiet emotion.  I looked a little surprised, and rallying
himself, in a few moments he inquired if I wished for any
refreshment, and proposed fetching me some.  But, well as I liked
him for a conspirator, I could not break bread with him!          

I thought now all was over of communication between us, but I was
mistaken.  He spoke for a minute or two upon the crowd--early
hour of coming--hasty breakfasting and such general nothings; and
then, as    if involuntarily, he returned to the sole subject on
his mind.                                                         

"Our plan," cried he, "is all changing: we have all been busy--we
are coming into a new method.  I have been making preparations--I
did not intend speaking for a considerable time--not till after
the circuit, but now, I may be called upon, I know not how soon." 

Page 116                                                          

Then he stopped--ruminating--and I let him ruminate without
interruption for some minutes, when he broke forth with these
reflections: "How strange, how infatuated a frailty has man with
respect to the future!  Be our views, our designs, our
anticipations what they may, we are never prepared for it!--It
always takes us by surprise--always comes before we look for it!" 

He stopped; but I waited his explanation without speaking, and,
after pausing thoughtfully for some time, he went on:             

"This day--for which we have all been waiting so anxiously, so
earnestly--the day for which we have fought, for which we have
struggled--a day, indeed, of national glory, in bringing to this
great tribunal a delinquent from so high an office--this day, so
much wished, has seemed to me, to the last moment, so distant,
that now--now that it Is actually arrived, it takes me as if I
had never thought of it before--it comes upon me all unexpected,
and finds me unready!"                                            

Still I said nothing, for I did not fully comprehend him, till he
added, "I will not be so affected as to say to you that I have
made no preparation--that I have not thought a little upon what I
have to do; yet now that the moment is actually come--"           

Again he broke off.  but a generous sentiment was, bursting from
him, and would not be 