at there'll be a
fortunate interruption and the play won't go on for ever." 

"I suppose all the things are safe?" Mabel asked.

"Quite. I told you where I put them. Come on, Jimmy; let's help lay
the table. We'll get Eliza to put out the best china." 

They went.

"It was lucky," said Gerald, struck by a sudden thought, "that the
burglars didn't go for the diamonds in the treasure-chamber." 

"They couldn't," said Mabel almost in a whisper; "they didn't know
about them. I don't believe anybody knows about them, except me
and you, and you're sworn to secrecy. This, you will remember,
had been done almost at the beginning. I know aunt doesn't know.
I just found out the spring by accident. Lord Yalding's kept the
secret well." 

"I wish I'd got a secret like that to keep," said Gerald. "If the
burglars do know," said Mabel, "it'll all come out at the trial.
Lawyers make you tell everything you know at trials, and a lot of
lies besides." 

"There won't be any trial," said Gerald, kicking the leg of the piano
thoughtfully.

"No trial?"

"It said in the paper," Gerald went on slowly, "'The miscreants
must have received warning from a confederate, for the admirable
preparations to arrest them as they returned for their ill-gotten
plunder were unavailing. But the police have a clew.'"

"What a pity!" said Mabel.

"You needn't worry they haven't got any old clew," said Gerald,
still attentive to the piano leg.

"I didn't mean the clew; I meant the confederate."

"It's a pity you think he's a pity, because he was me," said Gerald,
standing up and leaving the piano leg alone. He looked straight
before him, as the boy on the burning deck may have looked.

"I couldn't help it," he said. "I know you'll think I'm a criminal, but
I couldn't do it. I don't know how detectives can. I went over a
prison once, with father; and after I'd given the tip to Johnson I
remembered that, and I just couldn't. I know I'm a beast, and not
worthy to be a British citizen." 

"I think it was rather nice of you," said Mabel kindly. "How did
you warn them?"

"I just shoved a paper under the man's door the one that I knew
where he lived to tell him to lie low." 

"Oh! do tell me what did you put on it exactly?" Mabel warmed to
this new interest. "It said: 'The police know all except your names.
Be virtuous and you are safe. But if there's any more burgling I
shall split and you may rely on that from a friend.' I know it was
wrong, but I couldn't help it. Don't tell the others. They wouldn't
understand why I did it. I don't understand it myself."

"I do, said Mabel: it's because you've got a kind and noble heart." 

"Kind fiddlestick, my good child!" said Gerald, suddenly losing the
burning boy expression and becoming in a flash entirely himself.
"Cut along and wash your hands; you're as black as ink." 

"So are you," said Mabel, "and I'm not. It's dye with me. Auntie
was dyeing a blouse this morning. It told you how in Home Drivel
and she's as black as ink too, and the blouse is all streaky. Pity the
ring won't make just parts of you invisible the dirt, for instance." 

"Perhaps," Gerald said unexpectedly, "it won't make even all of
you invisible again." 

"Why not? You haven't been doing anything to it have you?"
Mabel sharply asked.

"No; but didn't you notice you were invisible twenty-one hours; I
was fourteen hours invisible, and Eliza only seven that's seven less
each time. And now we've come to "

"How frightfully good you are at sums!" said Mabel, awe-struck.

"You see, it's got seven hours less each time, and seven from seven
is nought; it's got to be something different this time. And then
afterwards it can't be minus seven, because I don't see how  unless
it made you more visible thicker, you know." 

"Don't!" said Mabel; "you make my head go round." 

"And there's another odd thing," Gerald went on; "when you're
invisible your relations don't love you. Look at your aunt, and
Cathy never turning a hair at me going burgling. We haven't got to
the bottom of that ring yet. Crikey! here's Mademoiselle with the
cakes. Run, bold bandits wash for your lives!" 

They ran

It was not cakes only; it was plums and grapes and jam tarts and
soda-water and raspberry vinegar, and chocolates in pretty boxes
and pure, thick, rich cream in brown jugs, also a big bunch of
roses. Mademoiselle was strangely merry for a governess. She
served out the cakes and tarts with a liberal hand, made wreaths of
the flowers for all their heads she was not eating much herself
drank the health of Mabel, as the guest of the day, in the beautiful
pink drink that comes from mixing raspberry vinegar and
soda-water, and actually persuaded Jimmy to wear his wreath, on
the ground that the Greek gods as well as the goddesses always
wore wreaths at a feast.

There never was such a feast provided by any French governess
since French governesses began. There were jokes and stories and
laughter. Jimmy showed all those tricks with forks and corks and
matches and apples which are so deservedly popular.
Mademoiselle told them stories of her own schooldays when she
was "a quite little girl with two tight tresses  so", and when they
could not understand the tresses, called for paper and pencil and
drew the loveliest little picture of herself when she was a child
with two short fat pig-tails sticking out from her head like
knitting-needles from a ball of dark worsted. Then she drew
pictures of everything they asked for, till Mabel pulled Gerald's
jacket and whispered: "The acting!" 

"Draw us the front of a theatre," said Gerald tactfully "a French
theatre." 

"They are the same thing as the English theatres," Mademoiselle
told him.

"Do you like acting the theatre, I mean?"

"But yes I love it." 

"All right," said Gerald briefly. "We'll act a play for you now this
afternoon if you like." 

"Eliza will be washing up," Cathy whispered, "and she was
promised to see it." 

"Or this evening," said Gerald "and please, Mademoiselle, may
Eliza come in and look on?"

"But certainly," said Mademoiselle; "amuse yourselves well, my
children." 

"But it's you," said Mabel suddenly, "that we want to amuse.
Because we love you very much don't we, all of you?"

"Yes," the chorus came unhesitatingly. Though the others would
never have thought of saying such a thing on their own account.
Yet, as Mabel said it, they found to their surprise that it was true.

"Tiens!" said Mademoiselle, "you love the old French governess?
Impossible," and she spoke rather indistinctly.

"You're not old," said Mabel; "at least not so very, she added
brightly, and you're as lovely as a Princess." 

"Go then, flatteress!" said Mademoiselle, laughing; and Mabel
went. The others were already half-way up the stairs.

Mademoiselle sat in the drawing-room as usual, and it was a good
thing that she was not engaged in serious study, for it seemed that
the door opened and shut almost ceaselessly all throughout the
afternoon. Might they have the embroidered antimacassars and the
sofa cushions? Might they have the clothes-line out of the
washhouse? Eliza said they mightn't, but might they? Might they
have the sheepskin hearth-rugs? Might they have tea in the garden,
because they had almost got the stage ready in the dining-room,
and Eliza wanted to set tea? Could Mademoiselle lend them any
coloured clothes scarves or dressing-gowns, or anything bright?
Yes, Mademoiselle could, and did silk things, surprisingly lovely
for a governess to have.

Had Mademoiselle any rouge? They had always heard that French
ladies No. Mademoiselle hadn't and to judge by the colour of her
face, Mademoiselle didn't need it. Did Mademoiselle think the
chemist sold rouge or had she any false hair to spare? At this
challenge Mademoiselle's pale fingers pulled out a dozen hairpins,
and down came the loveliest blue-black hair, hanging to her knees
in straight, heavy lines.

"No, you terrible infants," she cried. "I have not the false hair, nor
the rouge. And my teeth you want them also, without doubt?"

She showed them in a laugh.

"I said you were a Princess," said Mabel, "and now I know. You're
Rapunzel. Do always wear your hair like that! May we have the
peacock fans, please, off the mantelpiece, and the things that loop
back the curtains, and all the handkerchiefs you've got?"

Mademoiselle denied them nothing. They had the fans and the
handkerchiefs and some large sheets of expensive drawing-paper
out of the school cupboard, and Mademoiselle's best sable
paint-brush and her paint-box.

"Who would have thought," murmured Gerald, pensively sucking
the brush and gazing at the paper mask he had just painted, "that
she was such a brick in disguise? I wonder why crimson lake
always tastes just like Liebig's Extract."

Everything was pleasant that day somehow. There are some days
like that, you know, when everything goes well from the very
beginning; all the things you want are in their places, nobody
misunderstands you, and all that you do turns out admirably. How
different from those other days which we all know too well, when
your shoe-lace breaks, your comb is mislaid, your brush spins on
its back on the floor and lands under the bed where you can't get at
it you drop the soap, your buttons come off, an eyelash gets into
your eye, you have used your last clean handkerchief, your collar is
frayed at the edge and cuts your neck, and at the very last moment
your suspender breaks, and there is no string. On such a day as this
you are naturally late for breakfast, and everyone thinks you did it
on purpose. And the day goes on and on, getting worse and worse
you mislay your exercise-book, you drop your arithmetic in the
mud, your pencil breaks, and when you open your knife to sharpen
the pencil you split your nail. On such a day you jam your thumb
in doors, and muddle the messages you are sent on by grown-ups.
You upset your tea, and your bread-and-butter won't hold together
for a moment. And when at last you get to bed usually in disgrace
it is no comfort at all to you to know that not a single bit of it is
your own fault.

This day was not one of those days, as you will have noticed. Even
the tea in the garden there was a bricked bit by a rockery that made
a steady floor for the tea-table was most delightful, though the
thoughts of four out of the five were busy with the coming play,
and the fifth had thoughts of her own that had had nothing to do
with tea or acting.

Then there was an interval of slamming doors, interesting silences,
feet that flew up and down stairs.

It was still good daylight when the dinner-bell rang  the signal had
been agreed upon at tea-time, and carefully explained to Eliza.
Mademoiselle laid down her book and passed out of the
sunset-yellowed hail into the faint yellow gaslight of the
dining-room. The giggling Eliza held the door open before her, and
followed her in. The shutters had been closed streaks of daylight
showed above and below them. The green-and-black tablecloths of
the school dining-tables were supported on the clothes-line from
the backyard. The line sagged in a graceful curve, but it answered
its purpose of supporting the curtains which concealed that part of
the room which was the stage.

Rows of chairs had been placed across the other end of the room 
all the chairs in the house, as it seemed and Mademoiselle started
violently when she saw that fully half a dozen of these chairs were
occupied. And by the queerest people, too an old woman with a
poke bonnet tied under her chin with a red handkerchief, a lady in
a large straw hat wreathed in flowers and the oddest hands that
stuck out over the chair in front of her, several men with strange,
clumsy figures, and all with hats on.

"But," whispered Mademoiselle, through the chinks of the
tablecloths, "you have then invited other friends? You should have
asked me, my children." 

Laughter and something like a "hurrah" answered her from behind
the folds of the curtaining tablecloths.

"All right, Mademoiselle Rapunzel," cried Mabel; "turn the gas up.
It's only part of the entertainment." 

Eliza, still giggling, pushed through the lines of chairs, knocking
off the hat of one of the visitors as she did so, and turned up the
three incandescent burners.

Mademoiselle looked at the figure seated nearest to her, stooped to
look more closely, half laughed, quite screamed, and sat down
suddenly.

"Oh!" she cried, "they are not alive!" 

Eliza, with a much louder scream, had found out the same thing
and announced it differently. "They ain't got no insides," said she.
The seven members of the audience seated among the wilderness
of chairs had, indeed, no insides to speak of. Their bodies were
bolsters and rolled-up blankets, their spines were broom-handles,
and their arm and leg bones were hockey sticks and umbrellas.
Their shoulders were the wooden crosspieces that Mademoiselle
used for keeping her jackets in shape; their hands were gloves
stuffed out with handkerchiefs; and their faces were the paper
masks painted in the afternoon by the untutored brush of Gerald,
tied on to the round heads made of the ends of stuffed
bolster-cases. The faces were really rather dreadful. Gerald had
done his best, but even after his best had been done you would
hardly have known they were faces, some of them, if they hadn't
been in the positions which faces usually occupy, between the
collar and the hat. Their eyebrows were furious with lamp-black
frowns their eyes the size, and almost the shape, of five-shilling
pieces, and on their lips and cheeks had been spent much crimson
lake and nearly the whole of a half-pan of vermilion.

"You have made yourself an auditors, yes? Bravo!" cried
Mademoiselle, recovering herself and beginning to clap. And to
the sound of that clapping the curtain went up or, rather, apart. A
voice said, in a breathless, choked way, "Beauty and the Beast,"
and the stage was revealed.

It was a real stage too the dining-tables pushed close together and
covered with pink-and-white counterpanes. It was a little unsteady
and creaky to walk on, but very imposing to look at. The scene was
simple, but convincing. A big sheet of cardboard, bent square, with
slits cut in it and a candle behind, represented, quite transparently,
the domestic hearth; a round hat-tin of Eliza s, supported on a stool
with a night-light under it, could not have been mistaken, save by
wilful malice, for anything but a copper. A waste-paper basket
with two or three school dusters and an overcoat in it, and a pair of
blue pyjamas over the back of a chair, put the finishing touch to
the scene. It did not need the announcement from the wings, "The
laundry at Beauty's home." It was so plainly a laundry and nothing
else.

In the wings: "They look just like a real audience, don't they?"
whispered Mabel. "Go on, Jimmy don't forget the Merchant has to
be pompous and use long words." 

Jimmy, enlarged by pillows under Gerald's best overcoat which
had been intentionally bought with a view to his probable growth
during the two years which it was intended to last him, a Turkish
towel turban on his head and an open umbrella over it, opened the
first act in a simple and swift soliloquy:

"I am the most unlucky merchant that ever was. I was once the
richest merchant in Bagdad, but I lost all my ships, and now I live
in a poor house that is all to bits; you can see how the rain comes
through the roof, and my daughters take in washing. And ,"

The pause might have seemed long, but Gerald rustled in, elegant
in Mademoiselle's pink dressing-gown and the character of the
eldest daughter.

"A nice drying day," he minced. "Pa dear, put the umbrella the
other way up. It'll save us going out in the rain to fetch water.
Come on, sisters, dear father's got us a new wash-tub. Here's
luxury!" 

Round the umbrella, now held the wrong way up, the three sisters
knelt and washed imaginary linen. Kathleen wore a violet skirt of
Eliza s, a blue blouse of her own, and a cap of knotted
handkerchiefs. A white nightdress girt with a white apron and two
red carnations in Mabel's black hair left no doubt as to which of
the three was Beauty.

The scene went very well. The final dance with waving towels was
all that there is of charming, Mademoiselle said; and Eliza was so
much amused that, as she said, she got quite a nasty stitch along of
laughing so hearty.

You know pretty well what Beauty and the Beast would be like
acted by four children who had spent the afternoon in arranging
their costumes and so had left no time for rehearsing what they had
to say. Yet it delighted them, and it charmed their audience. And
what more can any play do, even Shakespeare's? Mabel, in her
Princess clothes, was a resplendent Beauty; and Gerald a Beast
who wore the drawing-room hearthrugs with an air of
indescribable distinction. If Jimmy was not a talkative merchant,
he made it up with a stoutness practically unlimited, and Kathleen
surprised and delighted even herself by the quickness with which
she changed from one to the other of the minor characters fairies,
servants, and messengers. It was at the end of the second act that
Mabel, whose costume, having reached the height of elegance,
could not be bettered and therefore did not need to be changed,
said to Gerald, sweltering under the weighty magnificence of his
beast-skin:

"I say, you might let us have the ring back." 

"I'm going to," said Gerald, who had quite forgotten it. "I'll give it
you in the next scene. Only don't lose it, or go putting it on. You
might go out all together and never be seen again, or you might get
seven times as visible as anyone else, so that all the rest of us
would look like shadows beside you, you'd be so thick, or ,"

"Ready!" said Kathleen, bustling in, once more a wicked sister.

Gerald managed to get his hand into his pocket under his
hearthrug, and when he rolled his eyes in agonies of sentiment, and
said, "Farewell, dear Beauty! Return quickly, for if you remain
long absent from your faithful beast he will assuredly perish," he
pressed a ring into her hand and added: "This is a magic ring that
will give you anything you wish. When you desire to return to your
own disinterested beast, put on the ring and utter your wish.
Instantly you will be by my side."

Beauty-Mabel took the ring, and it was the ring.

The curtains closed to warm applause from two pairs of hands.

The next scene went splendidly. The sisters were almost too
natural in their disagreeableness, and Beauty's annoyance when
they splashed her Princess's dress with real soap and water was
considered a miracle of good acting. Even the merchant rose to
something more than mere pillows, and the curtain fell on his
pathetic assurance that in the absence of his dear Beauty he was
wasting away to a shadow. And again two pairs of hands
applauded.

"Here, Mabel, catch hold," Gerald appealed from under the weight
of a towel-horse, the tea-urn, the tea-tray, and the green baize
apron of the boot boy, which together with four red geraniums
from the landing, the pampas-grass from the drawing-room
fireplace, and the india-rubber plants from the drawing-room
window were to represent the fountains and garden of the last act.
The applause had died away.

"I wish," said Mabel, taking on herself the weight of the tea-urn, "I
wish those creatures we made were alive. We should get
something like applause then." 

"I'm jolly glad they aren't, said Gerald, arranging the baize and the
towel-horse. "Brutes! It makes me feel quite silly when I catch
their paper eyes." 

The curtains were drawn back. There lay the hearthrug-coated
beast, in flat abandonment among the tropic beauties of the
garden, the pampas-grass shrubbery, the india-rubber plant bushes,
the geranium-trees and the urn fountain. Beauty was ready to make
her great entry in all the thrilling splendour of despair. And then
suddenly it all happened.

Mademoiselle began it: she applauded the garden scene with
hurried little clappings of her quick French hands. Eliza's fat red
palms followed heavily, and then someone else was clapping, six
or seven people, and their clapping made a dull padded sound.
Nine faces instead of two were turned towards the stage, and seven
out of the nine were painted, pointed paper faces. And every hand
and every face was alive. The applause grew louder as Mabel
glided forward, and as she paused and looked at the audience her
unstudied pose of horror and amazement drew forth applause
louder still; but it was not loud enough to drown the shrieks of
Mademoiselle and Eliza as they rushed from the room, knocking
chairs over and crushing each other in the doorway. Two distant
doors banged, Mademoiselle's door and Eliza's door.

"Curtain! curtain! quick!" cried Beauty-Mabel, in a voice that
wasn't Mabel's or the Beauty's. "Jerry those things have come alive.
Oh, whatever shall we do?"

Gerald in his hearthrugs leaped to his feet. Again that flat padded
applause marked the swish of cloths on clothes-line as Jimmy and
Kathleen drew the curtains.

"What's up?" they asked as they drew.

"You've done it this time!" said Gerald to the pink, perspiring
Mabel. "Oh, bother these strings!" 

"Can't you burst them? I've done it?" retorted Mabel. "I like that!" 

"More than I do," said Gerald.

"Oh, it's all right," said Mabel. "Come on. We must go and pull the
things to pieces then they can't go on being alive." 

"It's your fault, anyhow," said Gerald with every possible absence
of gallantry. "Don't you see? It's turned into a wishing ring. I knew
something different was going to happen. Get my knife out of my
pocket this string's in a knot. Jimmy, Cathy, those Ugly-Wuglies
have come alive because Mabel wished it. Cut out and pull them to
pieces." 

Jimmy and Cathy peeped through the curtain and recoiled with
white faces and staring eyes. "Not me!" was the brief rejoinder of
Jimmy. Cathy said, "Not much!" And she meant it, anyone could
see that.

And now, as Gerald, almost free of the hearthrugs, broke his
thumb-nail on the stiffest blade of his knife, a thick rustling and a
sharp, heavy stumping sounded beyond the curtain.

"They're going out!" screamed Kathleen "walking out on their
umbrella and broomstick legs. You can't stop them, Jerry, they re
too awful!" 

"Everybody in the town'll be insane by tomorrow night if we don't
stop them," cried Gerald. "Here, give me the ring I'll unwish them." 

He caught the ring from the unresisting Mabel, cried, "I wish the
Uglies weren't alive," and tore through the door. He saw, in fancy,
Mabel's wish undone, and the empty hall strewed with limp
bolsters, hats, umbrellas, coats and gloves, prone abject properties
from which the brief life had gone out for ever. But the hall was
crowded with live things, strange things all horribly short as broom
sticks and umbrellas are short. A limp hand gesticulated. A pointed
white face with red cheeks looked up at him, and wide red lips
said something, he could not tell what. The voice reminded him of
the old beggar down by the bridge who had no roof to his mouth.
These creatures had no roofs to their mouths, of course they had no 
"Aa 00 re  o me me oo a oo ho el?" said the voice again. And it had
said it four times before Gerald could collect himself sufficiently
to understand that this horror alive, and most likely quite
uncontrollable  was saying, with a dreadful calm, polite
persistence: "Can you recommend me to a good hotel?"

"Can you recommend me to a good hotel?" The speaker had no
inside to his head. Gerald had the best of reasons for knowing it.
The speaker's coat had no shoulders inside it only the cross-bar
that a jacket is slung on by careful ladies. The hand raised in
interrogation was not a hand at all; it was a glove lumpily stuffed
with pocket-handkerchiefs; and the arm attached to it was only
Kathleen's school umbrella. Yet the whole thing was alive, and
was asking a definite, and for anybody else, anybody who really
was a body, a reasonable question.

With a sensation of inward sinking, Gerald realized that now or
never was the time for him to rise to the occasion. And at the
thought he inwardly sank more deeply than before. It seemed
impossible to rise in the very smallest degree.

"I beg your pardon" was absolutely the best he could do; and the
painted, pointed paper face turned to him once more, and once
more said: "Aa 00 re  o me me oo a oo ho el?"

"You want a hotel?" Gerald repeated stupidly, "a good hotel?"

"A oo ho el," reiterated the painted lips.

"I'm awfully sorry," Gerald went on one can always be polite, of
course, whatever happens, and politeness came natural to him "but
all our hotels shut so early about eight, I think." 

"Och em er," said the Ugly-Wugly. Gerald even now does not
understand how that practical joke hastily wrought of hat,
overcoat, paper face and limp hands could have managed, by just
being alive, to become perfectly respectable, apparently about fifty
years old, and obviously well known and respected in his own
suburb the kind of man who travels first class and smokes
expensive cigars. Gerald knew this time, without need of
repetition, that the Ugly-Wugly had said: "Knock 'em up." 

"You can't," Gerald explained; "they re all stone deaf every single
person who keeps a hotel in this town. It's," he wildly plunged "it's
a County Council law. Only deaf people are allowed to keep
hotels. It's because of the hops in the beer," he found himself
adding; "you know, hops are so good for ear-ache." 

"I 0 wy ollo oo," said the respectable Ugly-Wugly; and Gerald was
not surprised to find that the thing did "not quite follow him."

"It is a little difficult at first," he said. The other Ugly-Wuglies
were crowding round. The lady in the poke bonnet said Gerald
found he was getting quite clever at understanding the
conversation of those who had no roofs to their mouths:

"If not a hotel, a lodging." 

"My lodging is on the cold ground," sang itself unbidden and
unavailing in Gerald's ear. Yet stay was it unavailing?

"I do know a lodging," he said slowly, "but ," The tallest of the
Ugly-Wuglies pushed forward. He was dressed in the old brown
overcoat and top-hat which always hung on the school hat-stand to
discourage possible burglars by deluding them into the idea that
there was a gentleman-of-the-house, and that he was at home. He
had an air at once more sporting and less reserved than that of the
first speaker, and anyone could see that he was not quite a
gentleman.

"Wa I wo oo oh," he began, but the lady Ugly-Wugly in the
flower-wreathed hat interrupted him. She spoke more distinctly
than the others, owing, as Gerald found afterwards, to the fact that
her mouth had been drawn open, and the flap cut from the aperture
had been folded back so that she really had something like a roof
to her mouth, though it was only a paper one.

"What I want to know," Gerald understood her to say, "is where are
the carriages we ordered?"

"I don't know," said Gerald, "but I'll find out. But we ought to be
moving," he added; "you see, the performance is over, and they
want to shut up the house and put the lights out. Let's be moving." 

"Eh ech e oo-ig," repeated the respectable Ugly-Wugly, and
stepped towards the front door.

"Oo urn oo," said the flower-wreathed one; and Gerald assures me
that her vermilion lips stretched in a smile.

"I shall be delighted," said Gerald with earnest courtesy, "to do
anything, of course. Things do happen so awkwardly when you
least expect it. I could go with you, and get you a lodging, if you'd
only wait a few moments in the in the yard. It's quite a superior
sort of yard, he went on, as a wave of surprised disdain passed over
their white paper faces not a common yard, you know; the pump,"
he added madly, "has just been painted green all over, and the
dustbin is enamelled iron." 

The Ugly-Wuglies turned to each other in consultation, and Gerald
gathered that the greenness of the pump and the enamelled
character of the dustbin made, in their opinion, all the difference.

"I'm awfully sorry," he urged eagerly, "to have to ask you to wait,
but you see I've got an uncle who's quite mad, and I have to give
him his gruel at half-past nine. He won't feed out of any hand but
mine." Gerald did not mind what he said. The only people one is
allowed to tell lies to are the Ugly-Wuglies; they are all clothes
and have no insides, because they are not human beings, but only a
sort of very real visions, and therefore cannot be really deceived,
though they may seem to be.

Through the back door that has the blue, yellow, red, and green
glass in it, down the iron steps into the yard, Gerald led the way,
and the Ugly-Wuglies trooped after him. Some of them had boots,
but the ones whose feet were only broomsticks or umbrellas found
the open-work iron stairs very awkward.

"If you wouldn't mind," said Gerald, "just waiting under the
balcony? My uncle is so very mad. If he were to see see any
strangers I mean, even aristocratic ones I couldn't answer for the
consequences." 

"Perhaps, said the flower-hatted lady nervously, "it would be better
for us to try and find a lodging ourselves?"

"I wouldn't advise you to," said Gerald as grimly as he knew how;
"the police here arrest all strangers. It's the new law the Liberals
have just made," he added convincingly, "and you'd get the sort of
lodging you wouldn't care for I couldn't bear to think of you in a
prison dungeon," he added tenderly.

"I ah wi oo er papers," said the respectable Ugly-Wugly, and added
something that sounded like "disgraceful state of things." 

However, they ranged themselves under the iron balcony. Gerald
gave one last look at them and wondered, in his secret heart, why
he was not frightened, though in his outside mind he was
congratulating himself on his bravery. For the things did look
rather horrid. In that light it was hard to believe that they were
really only clothes and pillows and sticks with no insides. As he
went up the steps he heard them talking among themselves in that
strange language of theirs, all oo's and ah's; and he thought he
distinguished the voice of the respectable Ugly-Wugly saying,
"Most gentlemanly lad," and the wreathed-hatted lady answering
warmly: "Yes, indeed." 

The coloured-glass door closed behind him. Behind him was the
yard, peopled by seven impossible creatures. Before him lay the
silent house, peopled, as he knew very well, by five human beings
as frightened as human beings could be. You think, perhaps, that
Ugly-Wuglies are nothing to be frightened of. That's only because
you have never seen one come alive. You must make one any old
suit of your father s, and a hat that he isn't wearing, a bolster or
two, a painted paper face, a few sticks and a pair of boots will do
the trick; get your father to lend you a wishing ring, give it back to
him when it has done its work, and see how you feel then.

Of course the reason why Gerald was not afraid was that he had
the ring; and, as you have seen, the wearer of that is not frightened
by anything unless he touches that thing. But Gerald knew well
enough how the others must be feeling. That was why he stopped
for a moment in the hall to try and imagine what would have been
most soothing to him if he had been as terrified as he knew they
were.

"Cathy! I say! What ho, Jimmy! Mabel ahoy!" he cried in a loud,
cheerful voice that sounded very unreal to himself.

The dining-room door opened a cautious inch.

"I say such larks!" Gerald went on, shoving gently at the door with
his shoulder. "Look out! what are you keeping the door shut for?"

"Are you alone?" asked Kathleen in hushed, breathless tones.

"Yes, of course. Don't be a duffer!" 

The door opened, revealing three scared faces and the disarranged
chairs where that odd audience had sat.

"Where are they? Have you unwished them? We heard them
talking. Horrible!" 

"They're in the yard," said Gerald with the best imitation of joyous
excitement that he could manage. "It is such fun! They're just like
real people, quite kind and jolly. It's the most ripping lark. Don't let
on to Mademoiselle and Eliza. I'll square them. Then Kathleen and
Jimmy must go to bed, and I'll see Mabel home, and as soon as we
get outside I must find some sort of lodging for the Ugly-Wuglies
they are such fun though. I do wish you could all go with me." 

"Fun?" echoed Kathleen dismally and doubting.

"Perfectly killing," Gerald asserted resolutely. "Now, you just
listen to what I say to Mademoiselle and Eliza, and back me up for
all you're worth. 

"But," said Mabel, "you can't mean that you're going to leave me
alone directly we get out, and go off with those horrible creatures.
They look like fiends." 

"You wait till you've seen them close," Gerald advised. "Why, they
re just ordinary the first thing one of them did was to ask me to
recommend it to a good hotel! I couldn't understand it at first,
because it has no roof to its mouth, of course." 

It was a mistake to say that, Gerald knew it at once.

Mabel and Kathleen were holding hands in a way that plainly
showed how a few moments ago they had been clinging to each
other in an agony of terror. Now they clung again. And Jimmy,
who was sitting on the edge of what had been the stage, kicking his
boots against the pink counterpane, shuddered visibly.

"It doesn't matter," Gerald explained "about the roofs, I mean; you
soon get to understand. I heard them say I was a gentlemanly lad as
I was coming away. They wouldn't have cared to notice a little
thing like that if they'd been fiends, you know." 

"It doesn't matter how gentlemanly they think you; if you don't see
me home you aren't, that's all. Are you going to?" Mabel
demanded.

"Of course I am. We shall have no end of a lark. Now for
Mademoiselle." 

He had put on his coat as he spoke and now ran up the stairs. The
others, herding in the hall, could hear his light-hearted there
s-nothing-unusual-the-matter-whatever-did-you-bolt-like-that-for
knock at Mademoiselle's door, the reassuring "It's only me Gerald,
you know," the pause, the opening of the door, and the low-voiced
parley that followed; then Mademoiselle and Gerald at Eliza's
door, voices of reassurance; Eliza's terror, bluntly voluble, tactfully
soothed.

"Wonder what lies he's telling them," Jimmy grumbled.

"Oh! not lies," said Mabel; "he's only telling them as much of the
truth as it's good for them to know." 

"If you'd been a man," said Jimmy witheringly, "you'd have been a
beastly Jesuit, and hid up chimneys." 

"If I were only just a boy," Mabel retorted, "I shouldn't be scared
out of my life by a pack of old coats." 

"I'm so sorry you were frightened," Gerald's honeyed tones floated
down the staircase; "we didn't think about you being frightened.
And it was a good trick, wasn't it?"

"There!" whispered Jimmy, "he's been telling her it was a trick of
ours." 

"Well, so it was," said Mabel stoutly.

"It was indeed a wonderful trick," said Mademoiselle; "and how
did you move the mannikins?"

"Oh, we've often done it with strings, you know," Gerald
explained.

"That's true, too," Kathleen whispered.

"Let us see you do once again this trick so remarkable," said
Mademoiselle, arriving at the bottom-stair mat.

"Oh, I've cleared them all out," said Gerald. ("So he has, from
Kathleen aside to Jimmy.) "We were so sorry you were startled; we
thought you wouldn't like to see them again." 

"Then," said Mademoiselle brightly, as she peeped into the untidy
dining-room and saw that the figures had indeed vanished, "if we
supped and discoursed of your beautiful piece of theatre?"

Gerald explained fully how much his brother and sister would
enjoy this. As for him Mademoiselle would see that it was his duty
to escort Mabel home, and kind as it was of Mademoiselle to ask
her to stay the night, it could not be, on account of the frenzied and
anxious affection of Mabel's aunt. And it was useless to suggest
that Eliza should see Mabel home, because Eliza was nervous at
night unless accompanied by her gentleman friend.

So Mabel was hatted with her own hat and cloaked with a cloak
that was not hers; and she and Gerald went out by the front door,
amid kind last words and appointments for the morrow.

The moment that front door was shut Gerald caught Mabel by the
arm and led her briskly to the corner of the side street which led to
the yard. Just round the corner he stopped.

"Now," he said, "what I want to know is are you an idiot or aren't
you?"

"Idiot yourself!" said Mabel, but mechanically, for she saw that he
was in earnest.

"Because I'm not frightened of the Ugly-Wuglies. They're as
harmless as tame rabbits. But an idiot might be frightened, and
give the whole show away. If you're an idiot, say so, and I'll go
back and tell them you're afraid to walk home, and that I'll go and
let your aunt know you're stopping." 

"I'm not an idiot," said Mabel; "and," she added, glaring round her
with the wild gaze of the truly terror-stricken, "I'm not afraid of
anything."

"I'm going to let you share my difficulties and dangers," said
Gerald; "at least, I'm inclined to let you. I wouldn't do as much for
my own brother, I can tell you. And if you queer my pitch I'll never
speak to you again or let the others either." 

"You're a beast, that's what you are! I don't need to be threatened to
make me brave. I am."

"Mabel," said Gerald, in low, thrilling tones, for he saw that the
time had come to sound another note, "I know you're brave. I
believe in you, That's why I've arranged it like this. I'm certain
you've got the heart of a lion under that black-and-white exterior.
Can I trust you? To the death?"

Mabel felt that to say anything but "Yes" was to throw away a
priceless reputation for courage. So "Yes" was what she said.

"Then wait here. You're close to the lamp. And when you see me
coming with them remember they re as harmless as serpents I
mean doves. Talk to them just like you would to anyone else.
See?"

He turned to leave her, but stopped at her natural question:

"What hotel did you say you were going to take them to?"

"Oh, Jimminy!" the harassed Gerald caught at his hair with both
hands. "There! you see, Mabel, you're a help already." he had, even
at that moment, some tact left. "I clean forgot! I meant to ask you 
isn't there any lodge or anything in the Castle grounds where I
could put them for the night? The charm will break, you know,
some time, like being invisible did, and they'll just be a pack of
coats and things that we can easily carry home any day. Is there a
lodge or anything?"

"There's a secret passage," Mabel began but at the moment the
yard-door opened and an Ugly-Wugly put out its head and looked
anxiously down the street.

"Righto!" Gerald ran to meet it. It was all Mabel could do not to
run in an opposite direction with an opposite motive. It was all she
could do, but she did it, and was proud of herself as long as ever
she remembered that night.

And now, with all the silent precaution necessitated by the near
presence of an extremely insane uncle, the Ugly-Wuglies, a grisly
band, trooped out of the yard door.

"Walk on your toes, dear," the bonneted Ugly-Wugly whispered to
the one with a wreath; and even at that thrilling crisis Gerald
wondered how she could, since the toes of one foot were but the
end of a golf club and of the other the end of a hockey-stick.

Mabel felt that there was no shame in retreating to the lamp-post at
the street corner, but, once there, she made herself halt and no one
but Mabel will ever know how much making that took. Think of it 
to stand there, firm and quiet, and wait for those hollow,
unbelievable things to come up to her, clattering on the pavement
with their stumpy feet or borne along noiselessly, as in the case of
the flower-hatted lady, by a skirt that touched the ground, and had,
Mabel knew very well, nothing at all inside it.

She stood very still; the insides of her hands grew cold and damp,
but still she stood, saying over and over again: "They re not true 
they can't be true. It's only a dream they aren't really true. They
can't be." And then Gerald was there, and all the Ugly-Wuglies
crowding round, and Gerald saying: "This is one of our friends
Mabel the Princess in the play, you know. Be a man!" he added in
a whisper for her ear alone.

Mabel, all her nerves stretched tight as banjo strings, had an awful
instant of not knowing whether she would be able to be a man or
whether she would be merely a shrieking and running little mad
girl. For the respectable Ugly-Wugly shook her limply by the hand.

("He can't be true," she told herself), and the rose-wreathed one
took her arm with a soft-padded glove at the end of an umbrella
arm, and said: "You dear, clever little thing! Do walk with me!" in
a gushing, girlish way, and in speech almost wholly lacking in
consonants.

Then they all walked up the High Street as if, as Gerald said, they
were anybody else.

It was a strange procession, but Liddlesby goes early to bed, and
the Liddlesby police, in common with those of most other places,
wear boots that one can hear a mile off. If such boots had been
heard, Gerald would have had time to turn back and head them off.
He felt now that he could not resist a flush of pride in Mabel's
courage as he heard her polite rejoinders to the still more polite
remarks of the amiable Ugly-Wuglies. He did not know how near
she was to the scream that would throw away the whole thing and
bring the police and the residents out to the ruin of everybody.

They met no one, except one man, who murmured, "Guy Fawkes,
swelp me!" and crossed the road hurriedly; and when, next day, he
told what he had seen, his wife disbelieved him, and also said it
was a judgement on him, which was unreasonable.

Mabel felt as though she were taking part in a very completely
arranged nightmare, but Gerald was in it too Gerald, who had
asked if she was an idiot. Well, she wasn't. But she soon would be,
she felt. Yet she went on answering the courteous vowel-talk of
these impossible people. She had often heard her aunt speak of
impossible people. Well, now she knew what they were like.

Summer twilight had melted into summer moonlight. The shadows
of the Ugly-Wuglies on the white road were much more horrible
than their more solid selves. Mabel wished it had been a dark
night, and then corrected the wish with a hasty shudder.

Gerald, submitting to a searching interrogatory from the tall-hatted
Ugly-Wugly as to his schools, his sports, pastimes, and ambitions,
wondered how long the spell would last. The ring seemed to work
in sevens. Would these things have seven hours'life or fourteen or
twenty-one?"His mind lost itself in the intricacies of the
seven-times table (a teaser at the best of times) and only found
itself with a shock when the procession found itself at the gates of
the Castle grounds.

Locked of course.

"You see," he explained, as the Ugly-Wuglies vainly shook the
iron gates with incredible hands; "it's so very late. There is another
way. But you have to climb through a hole." 

"The ladies," the respectable Ugly-Wugly began objecting; but the
ladies with one voice affirmed that they loved adventures. "So
frightfully thrilling," added the one who wore roses.

So they went round by the road, and coming to the hole it was a
little difficult to find in the moonlight, which always disguises the
most familiar things  Gerald went first with the bicycle lantern
which he had snatched as his pilgrims came out of the yard; the
shrinking Mabel followed, and then the Ugly-Wuglies, with hollow
rattlings of their wooden limbs against the stone, crept through,
and with strange vowel-sounds of general amazement, manly
courage, and feminine nervousness, followed the light along the
passage through the fern-hung cutting and under the arch.

When they emerged on the moonlit enchantment of the Italian
garden a quite intelligible "Oh!" of surprised admiration broke
from more than one painted paper lip; and the respectable
Ugly-Wugly was understood to say that it must be quite a
show-place by George, sir! yes.

Those marble terraces and artfully serpentining gravel walks surely
never had echoed to steps so strange. No shadows so wildly
unbelievable had, for all its enchantments, ever fallen on those
smooth, grey, dewy lawns. Gerald was thinking this, or something
like it (what he really thought was, "I bet there never was such ado
as this, even here! ), when he saw the statue of Hermes leap from
its pedestal and run towards him and his company with all the
lively curiosity of a street boy eager to be in at a street fight. He
saw, too, that he was the only one who perceived that white
advancing presence. And he knew that it was the ring that let him
see what by others could not be seen. He slipped it from his finger.
Yes; Hermes was on his pedestal, still as the snow man you make
in the Christmas holidays. He put the ring on again, and there was
Hermes, circling round the group and gazing deep in each
unconscious Ugly-Wugly face.

"This seems a very superior hotel," the tall-hatted Ugly-Wugly was
saying; "the grounds are laid out with what you might call taste."

"We should have to go in by the back door," said Mabel suddenly.
"The front door's locked at half-past nine." 

A short, stout Ugly-Wugly in a yellow and blue cricket cap, who
had hardly spoken, muttered something about an escapade, and
about feeling quite young again.

And now they had skirted the marble-edged pool where the
goldfish swam and glimmered, and where the great prehistoric
beast had come down to bathe and drink. The water flashed white
diamonds in the moonlight, and Gerald alone of them all saw that
the scaly-plated vast lizard was even now rolling and wallowing
there among the lily pads.

They hastened up the steps of the Temple of Flora. The back of it,
where no elegant arch opened to the air, was against one of those
sheer hills, almost cliffs, that diversified the landscape of that
garden. Mabel passed behind the statue of the goddess, fumbled a
little, and then Gerald's lantern, flashing like a searchlight, showed
a very high and very narrow doorway: the stone that was the door,
and that had closed it, revolved slowly under the touch of Mabel's
fingers.

"This way," she said, and panted a little. The back of her neck felt
cold and goose-fleshy.

"You lead the way, my lad, with the lantern," said the suburban
Ugly-Wugly in his bluff, agreeable way.

"I I must stay behind to close the door," said Gerald.

"The Princess can do that. We'll help her," said the wreathed one
with effusion; and Gerald thought her horribly officious.

He insisted gently that he would be the one responsible for the safe
shutting of that door.

"You wouldn't like me to get into trouble, I'm sure," he urged; and
the Ugly-Wuglies, for the last time kind and reasonable, agreed
that this, of all things, they would most deplore.

"You take it," Gerald urged, pressing the bicycle lamp on the
elderly Ugly-Wugly; "you're the natural leader. Go straight ahead.
Are there any steps?" he asked Mabel in a whisper.

"Not for ever so long," she whispered back. "It goes on for ages,
and then twists round." 

"Whispering," said the smallest Ugly-Wugly suddenly, "ain't
manners." 

"He hasn't any, anyhow," whispered the lady Ugly-Wugly; "don't
mind him quite a self-made man," and squeezed Mabel's arm with
horrible confidential flabbiness.

The respectable Ugly-Wugly leading with the lamp, the others
following trustfully, one and all disappeared into that narrow
doorway; and Gerald and Mabel standing without, hardly daring to
breathe lest a breath should retard the procession, almost sobbed
with relief. Prematurely, as it turned out. For suddenly there was a
rush and a scuffle inside the passage, and as they strove to close
the door the Ugly-Wuglies fiercely pressed to open it again.
Whether they saw something in the dark passage that alarmed
them, whether they took it into their empty heads that this could
not be the back way to any really respectable hotel, or whether a
convincing sudden instinct warned them that they were being
tricked, Mabel and Gerald never knew. But they knew that the
Ugly- Wuglies were no longer friendly and commonplace, that a
fierce change had come over them. Cries of "No, No!" "We won't
go on!" "Make him lead!" broke the dreamy stillness of the perfect
night. There were screams from ladies voices, the hoarse,
determined shouts of strong Ugly- Wuglies roused to resistance,
and, worse than all, the steady pushing open of that narrow stone
door that had almost closed upon the ghastly crew. Through the
chink of it they could be seen, a writhing black crowd against the
light of the bicycle lamp; a padded hand reached round the door;
stick-boned arms stretched out angrily towards the world that that
door, if it closed, would shut them off from for ever. And the tone
of their consonantless speech was no longer conciliatory and
ordinary; it was threatening, full of the menace of unbearable
horrors.

The padded hand fell on Gerald's arm, and instantly all the terrors
that he had, so far, only known in imagination became real to him,
and he saw, in the sort of flash that shows drowning people their
past lives, what it was that he had asked of Mabel, and that she had
given.

"Push, push for your life!" he cried, and setting his heel against the
pedestal of Flora, pushed manfully.

"I can't any more oh, I can't!" moaned Mabel, and tried to use her
heel likewise but her legs were too short.

"They mustn't get out, they mustn't!" Gerald panted.

"You'll know it when we do," came from inside the door in tones
which fury and mouth-rooflessness would have made
unintelligible to any ears but those sharpened by the wild fear of
that unspeakable moment.

"What's up, there?" cried suddenly a new voice a voice with all its
consonants comforting, clean-cut, and ringing, and abruptly a new
shadow fell on the marble floor of Flora's temple.

"Come and help push!" Gerald's voice only just reached the
newcomer. "If they get out they'll kill us all." 

A strong, velveteen-covered shoulder pushed suddenly between the
shoulders of Gerald and Mabel; a stout man's heel sought the aid
of the goddess's pedestal; the heavy, narrow door yielded slowly, it
closed, its spring clicked, and the furious, surging, threatening
mass of Ugly-Wuglies was shut in, and Gerald and Mabel oh,
incredible relief! were shut out. Mabel threw herself on the marble
floor, sobbing slow, heavy sobs of achievement and exhaustion. If
I had been there I should have looked the other way, so as not to
see whether Gerald yielded himself to the same abandonment.

The newcomer he appeared to be a gamekeeper Gerald decided
later looked down on well, certainly on Mabel, and said:

"Come on, don't be a little duffer." (He may have said, "a couple of
little duffers .) "Who is it, and what's it all about?"

"I can't possibly tell you," Gerald panted.

"We shall have to see about that, shan't we," said the newcomer
amiably. "Come out into the moonlight and let's review the
situation."

Gerald, even in that topsy-turvy state of his world, found time to
think that a gamekeeper who used such words as that had most
likely a romantic past. But at the same time he saw that such a man
would be far less easy to "square" with an unconvincing tale than
Eliza, or Johnson, or even Mademoiselle. In fact, he seemed, with
the only tale that they had to tell, practically unsquarable.

Gerald got up if he was not up already, or still up  and pulled at the
limp and now hot hand of the sobbing Mabel; and as he did so the
unsquarable one took his hand, and thus led both children out from
under the shadow of Flora's dome into the bright white moonlight
that carpeted Flora's steps. Here he sat down, a child on each side
of him, drew a hand of each through his velveteen arm, pressed
them to his velveteen sides in a friendly, reassuring way, and said:
"Now then! Go ahead!" 

Mabel merely sobbed. We must excuse her. She had been very
brave, and I have no doubt that all heroines, from Joan of Arc to
Grace Darling, have had their sobbing moments.

But Gerald said: "It's no use. If I made up a story you'd see through
it."

"That's a compliment to thy discernment, anyhow," said the
stranger. "What price telling me the truth?"

"If we told you the truth," said Gerald, "you wouldn't believe it."

"Try me," said the velveteen one. He was clean-shaven, and had
large eyes that sparkled when the moonlight touched them.

"I can't," said Gerald, and it was plain that he spoke the truth.
"You'd either think we were mad, and get us shut up, or else Oh,
it's no good. Thank you for helping us, and do let us go home."

"I wonder," said the stranger musingly, "whether you have any
imagination." 

"Considering that we invented them " Gerald hotly began, and
stopped with late prudence.

"If by 'them' you mean the people whom I helped you to imprison
in yonder tomb," said the Stranger, loosing Mabel's hand to put his
arm round her, "remember that I saw and heard them. And with all
respect to your imagination, I doubt whether any invention of
yours would be quite so convincing." 

Gerald put his elbows on his knees and his chin in his hands.

"Collect yourself," said the one in velveteen; "and while you are
collecting, let me just put the thing from my point of view. I think
you hardly realize my position. I come down from London to take
care of a big estate." 

"I thought you were a gamekeeper," put in Gerald.

Mabel put her head on the stranger's shoulder. "Hero in disguise,
then, I know," she sniffed.

"Not at all," said he; "bailiff would be nearer the mark. On the very
first evening I go out to take the moonlit air, and approaching a
white building, hear sounds of an agitated scuffle, accompanied by
frenzied appeals for assistance. Carried away by the enthusiasm of
the moment, I do assist and shut up goodness knows who behind a
stone door. Now, is it unreasonable that I should ask who it is that
I've shut up helped to shut up, I mean, and who it is that I've
assisted?"

"It's reasonable enough," Gerald admitted.

"Well then," said the stranger.

"Well then," said Gerald, "the fact is No," he added after a pause,
"the fact is, I simply can't tell you."

"Then I must ask the other side," said Velveteens. "Let me go I'll
undo that door and find out for myself." 

"Tell him," said Mabel, speaking for the first time. "Never mind if
he believes or not. We can't have them let out." 

"Very well," said Gerald, "I'll tell him. Now look here, Mr. Bailiff,
will you promise us on an English gentleman's word of honour 
because, of course, I can see you're that, bailiff or not will you
promise that you won't tell any one what we tell you and that you
won't have us put in a lunatic asylum, however mad we sound?"

"Yes," said the stranger, "I think I can promise that. But if you've
been having a sham fight or anything and shoved the other side
into that hole, don't you think you'd better let them out? They'll be
most awfully frightened, you know. After all, I suppose they are
only children." 

"Wait till you hear," Gerald answered. "They're not children not
much! Shall I just tell about them or begin at the beginning?"

"The beginning, of course," said the stranger.

Mabel lifted her head from his velveteen shoulder and said, "Let
me begin, then. I found a ring, and I said it would make me
invisible. I said it in play. And it did. I was invisible twenty-one
hours. Never mind where I got the ring. Now, Gerald, you go on." 

Gerald went on; for quite a long time he went on, for the story was
a splendid one to tell.

"And so," he ended, "we got them in there; and when seven hours
are over, or fourteen, or twenty-one, or something with a seven in
it, they'll just be old coats again. They came alive at half-past nine.
I think they'll stop being it in seven hours that's half-past four. Now
will you let us go home?""I'll see you home," said the stranger in a
quite new tone of exasperating gentleness. "Come let's be going." 

"You don't believe us," said Gerald. "Of course you don t. Nobody
could. But I could make you believe if I chose." 

All three stood up, and the stranger stared in Gerald's eyes till
Gerald answered his thought.

"No, I don't look mad, do I?"

"No, you aren't. But, come, you're an extraordinarily sensible boy;
don't you think you may be sickening for a fever or something?"

"And Cathy and Jimmy and Mademoiselle and Eliza, and the man
who said 'Guy Fawkes, swelp me!' and you, you saw them move 
you heard them call out. Are you sickening for anything?"

"No or at least not for anything but information. Come, and I'll see
you home." 

"Mabel lives at the Towers," said Gerald, as the stranger turned
into the broad drive that leads to the big gate.

"No relation to Lord Yalding," said Mabel hastily " housekeeper's
niece." She was holding on to his hand all the way. At the servants
entrance she put up her face to be kissed, and went in.

"Poor little thing!" said the bailiff, as they went down the drive
towards the gate.

He went with Gerald to the door of the school.

"Look here," said Gerald at parting. "I know what you're going to
do. You're going to try to undo that door." 

"Discerning!" said the stranger.

"Well don't. Or, anyway, wait till daylight and let us be there. We
can get there by ten." 

"All right I'll meet you there by ten," answered the stranger. "By
George! you're the rummest kids I ever met."

"We are rum," Gerald owned, "but so would you be if Good-night."

As the four children went over the smooth lawn towards Flora's
Temple they talked, as they had talked all the morning, about the
adventures of last night and of Mabel's bravery. It was not ten, but
half-past twelve; for Eliza, backed by Mademoiselle, had insisted
on their "clearing up," and clearing up very thoroughly, the "litter"
of last night.

"You're a Victoria Cross heroine, dear," said Cathy warmly. "You
ought to have a statue put up to you." 

"It would come alive if you put it here," said Gerald grimly.

"I shouldn't have been afraid," said Jimmy.

"By daylight," Gerald assured him, "everything looks so jolly
different."

"I do hope he'll be there," Mabel said; "he was such a dear, Cathy a
perfect bailiff, with the soul of a gentleman."

"He isn't there, though," said Jimmy. "I believe you just dreamed
him, like you did the statues coming alive." 

They went up the marble steps in the sunshine, and it was difficult
to believe that this was the place where only in last night's
moonlight fear had laid such cold hands on the hearts of Mabel
and Gerald.

"Shall we open the door," suggested Kathleen, "and begin to carry
home the coats?"

"Let's listen first," said Gerald; "perhaps they aren't only coats yet." 

They laid ears to the hinges of the stone door, behind which last
night the Ugly-Wuglies had shrieked and threatened. All was still
as the sweet morning itself. It was as they turned away that they
saw the man they had come to meet. He was on the other side of
Flora's pedestal. But he was not standing up. He lay there, quite
still, on his back, his arms flung wide.

"Oh, look!" cried Cathy, and pointed. His face was a queer
greenish colour, and on his forehead there was a cut; its edges
were blue, and a little blood had trickled from it on to the white of
the marble.

At the same time Mabel pointed too but she did not cry out as
Cathy had done. And what she pointed at was a big glossy-leaved
rhododendron bush, from which a painted pointed paper face
peered out very white, very red, in the sunlight and, as the children
gazed, shrank back into the cover of the shining leaves.

It was but too plain. The unfortunate bailiff must have opened the
door before the spell had faded, while yet the Ugly Wuglies were
something more than mere coats and hats and sticks. They had
rushed out upon him, and had done this. He lay there insensible 
was it a golf-club or a hockey-stick that had made that horrible cut
on his forehead? Gerald wondered. The girls had rushed to the
sufferer; already his head was in Mabel's lap. Kathleen had tried to
get it on to hers, but Mabel was too quick for her.

Jimmy and Gerald both knew what was the first thing needed by
the unconscious, even before Mabel impatiently said: "Water!
water!" 

"What in?" Jimmy asked, looking doubtfully at his hands, and then
down the green slope to the marble-bordered pool where the
water-lilies were.

"Your hat anything," said Mabel.

The two boys turned away.

"Suppose they come after us," said Jimmy.

"What come after us?" Gerald snapped rather than asked.

"The Ugly-Wuglies," Jimmy whispered..

"Who's afraid?" Gerald inquired.

But he looked to right and left very carefully, and chose the way
that did not lead near the bushes. He scooped water up in his straw
hat and returned to Flora's Temple, carrying it carefully in both
hands. When he saw how quickly it ran through the straw he
pulled his handkerchief from his breast pocket with his teeth and
dropped it into the hat. It was with this that the girls wiped the
blood from the bailiff's brow.

"We ought to have smelling salts," said Kathleen, half in tears. "I
know we ought."

"They would be good," Mabel owned.

"Hasn't your aunt any?"

"Yes, but "

"Don't be a coward," said Gerald; "think of last night. They
wouldn't hurt you. He must have insulted them or something. Look
here, you run. We'll see that nothing runs after you." 

There was no choice but to relinquish the head of the interesting
invalid to Kathleen; so Mabel did it, cast one glaring glance round
the rhododendron bordered slope, and fled towards the castle.

The other three bent over the still unconscious bailiff.

"He's not dead, is he?" asked Jimmy anxiously.

"No," Kathleen reassured him, "his heart's heating. Mabel and I felt
it in his wrist, where doctors do. How frightfully good-looking he
is!" 

"Not so dusty," Gerald admitted.

"I never know what you mean by good-looking," said Jimmy, and
suddenly a shadow fell on the marble beside them and a fourth
voice spoke not Mabel s; her hurrying figure, though still in sight,
was far away.

The children looked up into the face of the eldest of the
Ugly-Wuglies, the respectable one. Jimmy and Kathleen screamed.
I am sorry, but they did.

"Hush!" said Gerald savagely: he was still wearing the ring. "Hold
your tongues! I'll get him away," he added in a whisper.

"Very sad affair this," said the respectable Ugly-Wugly. He spoke
with a curious accent; there was something odd about his r's, and
his m's and n's were those of a person labouring under an almost
intolerable cold in the head. But it was not the dreadful "oo" and
"ah" voice of the night before. Kathleen and Jimmy stooped over
the bailiff. Even that prostrate form, being human, seemed some
little protection. But Gerald, strong in the fearlessness that the ring
gave to its wearer, looked full into the face of the Ugly-Wugly and
started. For though the face was almost the same as the face he had
himself painted on the school drawing-paper, it was not the same.
For it was no longer paper. It was a real face, and the hands, lean
and almost transparent as they were, were real hands. As it moved
a little to get a better view of the bailiff it was plain that it had
legs, arms live legs and arms, and a self-supporting backbone. It
was alive indeed with a vengeance.

"How did it happen?" Gerald asked, with an effort of calmness a
successful effort.

"Most regrettable," said the Ugly-Wugly. "The others must have
missed the way last night in the passage. They never found the
hotel."

"Did you?" asked Gerald blankly.

"Of course," said the Ugly-Wugly. "Most respectable, exactly as
you said. Then when I came away I didn't come the front way
because I wanted to revisit this sylvan scene by daylight, and the
hotel people didn't seem to know how to direct me to it I found the
others all at this door, very angry. They'd been here all night, trying
to get out. Then the door opened this gentleman must have opened
it and before I could protect him, that underbred man in the high
hat you remember ,"

Gerald remembered.

"Hit him on the head, and he fell where you see him. The others
dispersed, and I myself was just going for assistance when I saw
you." 

Here Jimmy was discovered to be in tears and Kathleen white as
any drawing-paper.

"What's the matter, my little man?" said the respectable
Ugly-Wugly kindly. Jimmy passed instantly from tears to yells.

"Here, take the ring!" said Gerald in a furious whisper, and thrust it
on to Jimmy's hot, damp, resisting finger. Jimmy's voice stopped
short in the middle of a howl. And Gerald in a cold flash realized
what it was that Mabel had gone through the night before. But it
was daylight, and Gerald was not a coward.

"We must find the others," he said.

"I imagine," said the elderly Ugly-Wugly, "that they have gone to
bathe. Their clothes are in the wood."

He pointed stiffly.

"You two go and see," said Gerald. "I'll go on dabbing this chap's
head." 

In the wood Jimmy, now fearless as any lion, discovered four
heaps of clothing, with broomsticks, hockeysticks, and masks
complete all that had gone to make up the gentlemen
Ugly-Wuglies of the night before. On a stone seat well in the sun
sat the two lady Ugly-Wuglies, and Kathleen approached them
gingerly. Valour is easier in the sunshine than at night, as we all
know. When she and Jimmy came close to the bench, they saw that
the Ugly-Wuglies were only Ugly-Wuglies such as they had often
made. There was no life in them. Jimmy shook them to pieces, and
a sigh of relief burst from Kathleen.

"The spell's broken, you see," she said; "and that old gentleman,
he's real. He only happens to be like the Ugly-Wugly we made." 

"He's got the coat that hung in the hall on, anyway," said Jimmy.

"No, it's only like it. Let's get back to the unconscious stranger." 

They did, and Gerald begged the elderly Ugly-Wugly to retire
among the bushes with Jimmy; "because, said he, "I think the poor
bailiff's coming round, and it might upset him to see strangers and
Jimmy'll keep you company. He's the best one of us to go with
you," he added hastily.

And this, since Jimmy had the ring, was certainly true.

So the two disappeared behind the rhododendrons. Mabel came
back with the salts just as the bailiff opened his eyes.

"It's just like life," she said; "I might just as well not have gone.
However ," She knelt down at once and held the bottle under the
sufferer's nose till he sneezed and feebly pushed her hand away
with the faint question: "What's up now?"

"You've hurt your head," said Gerald. "Lie still."

"No more smelling-bottle," he said weakly, and lay.

Quite soon he sat up and looked round him. There was an anxious
silence. Here was a grown-up who knew last night's secret, and
none of the children were at all sure what the utmost rigour of the
law might be in a case where people, no matter how young, made
Ugly-Wuglies, and brought them to life dangerous, fighting, angry
life. What would he say what would he do?" He said: "What an
odd thing! Have I been insensible long?"

"Hours," said Mabel earnestly.

"Not long," said Kathleen.

"We don't know. We found you like it," said Gerald.

"I'm all right now," said the bailiff, and his eye fell on the
blood-stained handkerchief. "I say, I did give my head a bang. And
you've been giving me first aid. Thank you most awfully. But it is
rum."

"What's rum?" politeness obliged Gerald to ask.

"Well, I suppose it isn't really rum I expect I saw you just before I
fainted, or whatever it was but I've dreamed the most extraordinary
dream while I've been insensible and you were in it."

"Nothing but us?" asked Mabel breathlessly.

"Oh, lots of things impossible things but you were real enough." 

Everyone breathed deeply in relief. It was indeed, as they agreed
later, a lucky let-off.

"Are you sure you're all right?" they all asked, as he got on his feet.

"Perfectly, thank you." He glanced behind Flora's statue as he
spoke. "Do you know, I dreamed there was a door there, but of
course there isn't. I don't know how to thank you," he added,
looking at them with what the girls called his beautiful, kind eyes;
"it's lucky for me you came along. You come here whenever you
like, you know," he added. "I give you the freedom of the place." 

"You're the new bailiff, aren't you?" said Mabel.

"Yes. How did you know?" he asked quickly; but they did not tell
him how they knew. Instead, they found out which way he was
going, and went the other way after warm handshakes and hopes
on both sides that they would meet again soon.

"I'll tell you what," said Gerald, as they watched the tall, broad
figure of the bailiff grow smaller across the hot green of the grass
slope, "have you got any idea of how we're going to spend the day?
Because I have." 

The others hadn't.

"We'll get rid of that Ugly-Wugly oh, we'll find a way right enough 
and directly we've done it we'll go home and seal up the ring in an
envelope so that its teeth'll be drawn and it'll be powerless to have
unforeseen larks with us. Then we'll get out on the roof, and have a
quiet day books and apples. I'm about fed up with adventures, so I
tell you."

The others told him the same thing.

"Now, think," said he "think as you never thought before how to
get rid of that Ugly-Wugly." 

Everyone thought, but their brains were tired with anxiety and
distress, and the thoughts they thought were, as Mabel said, not
worth thinking, let alone saying.

"I suppose Jimmy's all right," said Kathleen anxiously.

"Oh, he's all right: he's got the ring," said Gerald.

"I hope he won't go wishing anything rotten," said Mabel, but
Gerald urged her to shut up and let him think.

"I think I think best sitting down," he said, and sat; "and sometimes
you can think best aloud. The Ugly-Wugly's real don't make any
mistake about that. And he got made real inside that passage. If we
could get him back there he might get changed again, and then we
could take the coats and things back." 

"Isn't there any other way?" Kathleen asked; and Mabel, more
candid, said bluntly: "I'm not going into that passage, so there!" 

"Afraid! In broad daylight," Gerald sneered.

"It wouldn't be broad daylight in there," said Mabel, and Kathleen
shivered.

"If we went to him and suddenly tore his coat off," said she "he is
only coats he couldn't go on being real then. 

"Couldn't he!" said Gerald. "You don't know what he's like under
the coat." 

Kathleen shivered again. And all this time the sun was shining
gaily and the white statues and the green trees and the fountains
and terraces looked as cheerfully romantic as a scene in a play.

"Anyway," said Gerald, "we'll try to get him back, and shut the
door. That's the most we can hope for. And then apples, and
Robinson Crusoe or the Swiss Family, or any book you like that's
got no magic in it. Now, we've just got to do it. And he's not horrid
now; really he isn't. He's real, you see." 

"I suppose that makes all the difference," said Mabel, and tried to
feel that perhaps it did.

"And it's broad daylight just look at the sun," Gerald insisted.
"Come on!" 

He took a hand of each, and they walked resolutely towards the
bank of rhododendrons behind which Jimmy and the Ugly-Wugly
had been told to wait, and as they went Gerald said: "He's real"
"The sun's shining" "It'll all be over in a minute." And he said these
things again and again, so that there should be no mistake about
them.

As they neared the bushes the shining leaves rustled, shivered, and
parted, and before the girls had time to begin to hang back Jimmy
came blinking out into the sunlight. The boughs closed behind
him, and they did not stir or rustle for the appearance of anyone
else. Jimmy was alone.

"Where is it?" asked the girls in one breath.

"Walking up and down in a fir-walk," said Jimmy, "doing sums in
a book. He says he's most frightfully rich, and he's got to get up to
town to the Stocks or something where they change papers into
gold if you're clever, he says. I should like to go to the
Stocks-change, wouldn't you?"

"I don't seem to care very much about changes, said Gerald. "I've
had enough. Show us where he is we must get rid of him." 

"He's got a motor-car," Jimmy went on, parting the warm
varnished-looking rhododendron leaves, "and a garden with a
tennis-court and a lake and a carriage and pair, and he goes to
Athens for his holiday sometimes, just like other people go to
Margate." 

"The best thing," said Gerald, following through the bushes, "will
be to tell him the shortest way out is through that hotel that he
thinks he found last night. Then we get him into the passage, give
him a push, fly back, and shut the door." 

"He'll starve to death in there," said Kathleen, "if he's really real." 

"I expect it doesn't last long, the ring magics don't  anyway, it's the
only thing I can think of." 

"He's frightfully rich," Jimmy went on unheeding amid the
cracking of the bushes; "he's building a public library for the
people where he lives, and having his portrait painted to put in it.
He thinks they'll like that." 

The belt of rhododendrons was passed, and the children had
reached a smooth grass walk bordered by tall pines and firs of
strange different kinds. "He's just round that corner," said Jimmy.
"He's simply rolling in money. He doesn't know what to do with it.
He's been building a horse-trough and drinking fountain with a
bust of himself on top. Why doesn't he build a private
swimming-bath close to his bed, so that he can just roll off into it
of a morning? I wish I was rich; I'd soon show him ,"

"That's a sensible wish," said Gerald. "I wonder we didn't think of
doing that. Oh, criky!" he added, and with reason. For there, in the
green shadows of the pine-walk, in the woodland silence, broken
only by rustling leaves and the agitated breathing of the three
unhappy others, Jimmy got his wish. By quick but perfectly
plain-to-be-seen degrees Jimmy became rich. And the horrible
thing was that though they could see it happening they did not
know what was happening, and could not have stopped it if they
had. All they could see was Jimmy, their own Jimmy, whom they
had larked with and quarrelled with and made it up with ever since
they could remember, Jimmy continuously and horribly growing
old. The whole thing was over in a few seconds. Yet in those few
seconds they saw him grow to a youth, a young man, a
middle-aged man; and then, with a sort of shivering shock,
unspeakably horrible and definite, he seemed to settle down into
an elderly gentleman, handsomely but rather dowdily dressed, who
was looking down at them through spectacles and asking them the
nearest way to the railway-station. If they had not seen the change
take place, in all its awful details, they would never have guessed
that this stout, prosperous, elderly gentleman

with the high hat, the frock-coat, and the large red seal dangling
from the curve of a portly waistcoat, was their own Jimmy. But, as
they had seen it, they knew the dreadful truth.

"Oh, Jimmy, don't!" cried Mabel desperately.

Gerald said: "This is perfectly beastly," and Kathleen broke into
wild weeping.

"Don't cry, little girl!" said That-which-had-been Jimmy; "and you,
boy, can't you give a civil answer to a civil question?"

"He doesn't know us!" wailed Kathleen.

"Who doesn't know you?" said That-which-had-been impatiently.

"You y-you don t!" Kathleen sobbed.

"I certainly don't," returned That-which "but surely that need not
distress you so deeply." 

"Oh, Jimmy, Jimmy, Jimmy!" Kathleen sobbed louder than before.

"He doesn't know us," Gerald owned, "or look here, Jimmy, y you
aren't kidding, are you? Because if you are it's simply abject rot "

"My name is Mr.  ," said That-which-had-been-Jimmy, and gave
the name correctly. By the way, it will perhaps be shorter to call
this elderly stout person who was Jimmy grown rich by some
simpler name than I have just used. Let us call him 'That'  short for
'That-which-had-been Jimmy'.

"What are we to do?" whispered Mabel, awestruck; and aloud she
said: "Oh, Mr. James, or whatever you call yourself, do give me
the ring." For on That's finger the fatal ring showed plain.

"Certainly not," said That firmly. "You appear to be a very
grasping child." 

"But what are you going to do?" Gerald asked in the flat tones of
complete hopelessness.

"Your interest is very flattering," said That. "Will you tell me, or
won't you, the way to the nearest railway station?"

"No," said Gerald, "we won't." 

"Then," said That, still politely, though quite plainly furious,
"perhaps you'll tell me the way to the nearest lunatic asylum?"

"Oh, no, no, no!" cried Kathleen. "You're not so bad as that." 

"Perhaps not. But you are," That retorted; "if you're not lunatics
you're idiots. However, I see a gentleman ahead who is perhaps
sane. In fact, I seem to recognize him." A gentleman, indeed, was
now to be seen approaching. It was the elderly Ugly-Wugly.

"Oh! don't you remember Jerry?" Kathleen cried, "and Cathy, your 
own Cathy Puss Cat? Dear, dear Jimmy, don't be so silly!" 

"Little girl," said That, looking at her crossly through his
spectacles, "I am sorry you have not been better brought up." And
he walked stiffly towards the Ugly-Wugly. Two hats were raised, a
few words were exchanged, and two elderly figures walked side by
side down the green pine-walk, followed by three miserable
children, horrified, bewildered, alarmed, and, what is really worse
than anything, quite at their wits end.

"He wished to be rich, so of course he is," said Gerald; "he'll have
money for tickets and everything. 

And when the spell breaks it's sure to break, isn't it? he'll find
himself somewhere awful  perhaps in a really good hotel and not
know how he got there." 

"I wonder how long the Ugly-Wuglies lasted," said Mabel.

"Yes," Gerald answered, "that reminds me. You two must collect
the coats and things. Hide them, anywhere you like, and we'll carry
them home tomorrow if there is any tomorrow " he added darkly.

"Oh, don t!" said Kathleen, once more breathing heavily on the
verge of tears: "you wouldn't think everything could be so awful,
and the sun shining like it does. 

"Look here," said Gerald, "of course I must stick to Jimmy. You
two must go home to Mademoiselle and tell her Jimmy and I have
gone off in the train with a gentleman say he looked like an uncle.
He does some kind of uncle. There'll be a beastly row afterwards,
but it's got to be done. 

"It all seems thick with lies," said Kathleen; "you don't seem to be
able to get a word of truth in edgewise hardly."

"Don't you worry," said her brother; "they aren't lies  they're as true
as anything else in this magic rot we've got mixed up in. It's like
telling lies in a dream; you can't help it." 

"Well, all I know is I wish it would stop." 

"Lot of use your wishing that is," said Gerald, exasperated. "So
long. I've got to go, and you've got to stay. If it's any comfort to
you, I don't believe any of it's real: it can't be; it's too thick. Tell
Mademoiselle Jimmy and I will be back to tea. If we don't happen
to be I can't help it. I can't help anything, except perhaps Jimmy."
He started to run, for the girls had lagged, and the Ugly-Wugly and
That (late Jimmy) had quickened their pace.

The girls were left looking after them.

"We've got to find these clothes," said Mabel, "simply got to. I
used to want to be a heroine. It's different when it really comes to
being, isn't it?"

"Yes, very," said Kathleen. "Where shall we hide the clothes when
we've got them? Not not that passage?"

"Never!" said Mabel firmly; "we'll hide them inside the great stone
dinosaurus. He's hollow." 

"He comes alive in his stone," said Kathleen.

"Not in the sunshine he doesn't," Mabel told her confidently, "and
not without the ring." 

"There won't be any apples and books today," said Kathleen.

"No, but we'll do the babiest thing we can do the minute we get
home. We'll have a dolls tea-party. That'll make us feel as if there
wasn't really any magic." 

"It'll have to be a very strong tea party, then," said Kathleen
doubtfully.

And now we see Gerald, a small but quite determined figure,
paddling along in the soft white dust of the sunny road, in the wake
of two elderly gentlemen. His hand, in his trousers pocket, buries
itself with a feeling of satisfaction in the heavy mixed coinage that
is his share of the profits of his conjuring at the fair. His noiseless
tennis-shoes bear him to the station, where, unobserved, he listens
at the ticket office to the voice of That-which-was-James. "One
first London," it says and Gerald, waiting till That and the
Ugly-Wugly have strolled on to the platform, politely conversing
of politics and the Kaffir market, takes a third return to London.
The train strides in, squeaking and puffing. The watched take their
seats in a carriage blue-lined. The watcher springs into a yellow
wooden compartment. A whistle sounds, a flag is waved. The train
pulls itself together, strains, jerks, and starts.

"I don't understand," says Gerald, alone in his third- class carriage,
"how railway trains and magic can go on at the same time." 

And yet they do.

Mabel and Kathleen, nervously peering among the rhododendron
bushes and the bracken and the fancy fir-trees, find six several
heaps of coats, hats, skirts, gloves, golf-clubs, hockey- sticks,
broom-handles. They carry them, panting and damp, for the
mid-day sun is pitiless, up the hill to where the stone dinosaurus
looms immense among a forest of larches. The dinosaurus has a
hole in his stomach. Kathleen shows Mabel how to "make a back"
and climbs up on it into the cold, stony inside of the monster.
Mabel hands up the clothes and the sticks.

"There's lots of room," says Kathleen; "its tail goes down into the
ground. It's like a secret passage." 

"Suppose something comes out of it and jumps out at you," says
Mabel, and Kathleen hurriedly descends.

The explanations to Mademoiselle promise to be difficult, but, as
Kathleen said afterwards, any little thing is enough to take a
grown-up's attention off. A figure passes the window just as they
are explaining that it really did look exactly like an uncle that the
boys have gone to London with.

"Who's that?" says Mademoiselle suddenly, pointing, too, which
everyone knows is not manners.

It is the bailiff coming back from the doctor's with antiseptic
plaster on that nasty cut that took so long a-bathing this morning.
They tell her it is the bailiff at Yalding Towers, and she says,
"Ciel!" (Sky!) and asks no more awkward questions about the
boys. Lunch  very late is a silent meal. After lunch Mademoiselle
goes out, in a hat with many pink roses, carrying a rose-lined
parasol. The girls, in dead silence, organize a dolls tea-party, with
real tea. At the second cup Kathleen bursts into tears. Mabel, also
weeping, embraces her.

"I wish," sobs Kathleen, "oh, I do wish I knew where the boys
were! It would be such a comfort." 

Gerald knew where the boys were, and it was no comfort to him at
all. If you come to think of it, he was the only person who could
know where they were, because Jimmy didn't know that he was a
boy and indeed he wasn't really and the Ugly-Wugly couldn't be
expected to know anything real, such as where boys were. At the
moment when the second cup of dolls tea  very strong, but not
strong enough to drown care in  was being poured out by the
trembling hand of Kathleen, Gerald was lurking there really is no
other word for it on the staircase of Aldermanbury Buildings, Old
Broad Street. On the floor below him was a door bearing the
legend "MR. U. W. UGLI, Stock and Share Broker (and at the
Stock Exchange)" and on the floor above was another door, on
which was the name of Gerald's little brother, now grown suddenly
rich in so magic and tragic a way. There were no explaining words
under Jimmy's name. Gerald could not guess what walk in life it
was to which That (which had been Jimmy) owed its affluence. He
had seen, when the door opened to admit his brother, a tangle of
clerks and mahogany desks. Evidently That had a large business.

What was Gerald to do? What could he do?

It is almost impossible, especially for one so young as Gerald, to
enter a large London office and explain that the elderly and
respected head of it is not what he seems, but is really your little
brother, who has been suddenly advanced to age and wealth by a
tricky wishing ring. If you think it's a possible thing, try it, that's
all. Nor could he knock at the door of Mr. U. W. Ugli, Stock and
Share Broker (and at the Stock Exchange), and inform his clerks
that their chief was really nothing but old clothes that had
accidentally come alive, and by some magic, which he couldn't
attempt to explain, become real during a night spent at a really
good hotel which had no existence.

The situation bristled, as you see, with difficulties. And it was so
long past Gerald's proper dinner-time that his increasing hunger
was rapidly growing to seem the most important difficulty of all. It
is quite possible to starve to death on the staircase of a London
building if the people you are watching for only stay long enough
in their offices. The truth of this came home to Gerald more and
more painfully.

A boy with hair like a new front door mat came whistling up the
stairs. He had a dark blue bag in his hands.

"I'll give you a tanner for yourself if you'll get me a tanner's worth
of buns," said Gerald, with that prompt decision common to all
great commanders.

"Show us yer tanners," the boy rejoined with at least equal
promptness. Gerald showed them. "All right; hand over." 

"Payment on delivery," said Gerald, using words from the drapers
which he had never thought to use.

The boy grinned admiringly.

"Knows 'is wy abaht," he said; "ain't no flies on 'im." 

"Not many," Gerald owned with modest pride. "Cut along, there's a
good chap. I've got to wait here. I'll take care of your bag if you
like." 

"Nor yet there ain't no flies on me neither," remarked the boy,
shouldering it. "I been up to the confidence trick for years ever
since I was your age." 

With this parting shot he went, and returned in due course
bun-laden. Gerald gave the sixpence and took the buns. When the
boy, a minute later, emerged from the door of Mr. U. W. Ugli,
Stock and Share Broker (and at the Stock Exchange), Gerald
stopped him.

"What sort of chap's that?" he asked, pointing the question with a
jerk of an explaining thumb.

"Awful big pot," said the boy; "up to his eyes in oof. Motor and all
that." 

"Know anything about the one on the next landing?"

"He's bigger than what this one is. Very old firm special cellar in
the Bank of England to put his chink in all in bins like against the
wall at the corn-chandler s. Jimminy, I wouldn't mind 'alf an hour
in there, and the doors open and the police away at a beano. Not
much! Neither. You'll bust if you eat all them buns." 

"Have one?" Gerald responded, and held out the bag.

"They say in our office," said the boy, paying for the bun
honourably with unasked information, "as these two is all for
cutting each other's throats oh, only in the way of business been at
it for years." 

Gerald wildly wondered what magic and how much had been
needed to give history and a past to these two things of yesterday,
the rich Jimmy and the Ugly-Wugly. If he could get them away
would all memory of them fade in this boy's mind, for instance, in
the minds of all the people who did business with them in the
City? Would the mahogany-and-clerk-furnished offices fade away?
Were the clerks real? Was the mahogany? Was he himself real?
Was the boy?

"Can you keep a secret?" he asked the other boy. "Are you on for a
lark?"

"I ought to be getting back to the office," said the boy.

"Get then!" said Gerald.

"Don't you get stuffy," said the boy. "I was just a-going to say it
didn't matter. I know how to make my nose bleed if I'm a bit late." 

Gerald congratulated him on this accomplishment, at once so
useful and so graceful, and then said: "Look here. I'll give you five
bob honest." 

"What for?" was the boy's natural question.

"If you'll help me. "

"Fire ahead." 

"I'm a private inquiry," said Gerald.

"Tec? You don't look it." 

"What's the good of being one if you look it?" Gerald asked
impatiently, beginning on another bun. "That old chap on the floor
above he's wanted."

"Police?" asked the boy with fine carelessness.

"No sorrowing relations." 

"'Return to,'" said the boy; "'all forgotten and forgiven.' I see." 

"And I've got to get him to them, somehow. Now, if you could go
in and give him a message from someone who wanted to meet him
on business ,"

"Hold on!" said the boy. "I know a trick worth two of that. You go
in and see old Ugli. He'd give his ears to have the old boy out of
the way for a day or two. They were saying so in our office only
this morning." 

"Let me think," said Gerald, laying down the last bun on his knee
expressly to hold his head in his hands.

"Don't you forget to think about my five bob," said the boy.

Then there was a silence on the stairs, broken only by the cough of
a clerk in That's office, and the clickety-clack of a typewriter in the
office of Mr. U. W. Ugli.

Then Gerald rose up and finished the bun.

"You're right," he said. "I'll chance it. Here's your five bob." 

He brushed the bun crumbs from his front, cleared his throat, and
knocked at the door of Mr. U. W. Ugli. It opened and he entered.

The door-mat boy lingered, secure in his power to account for his
long absence by means of his well-trained nose, and his waiting
was rewarded. He went down a few steps, round the bend of the
stairs, and heard the voice of Mr. U. W. Ugli, so well known on
that staircase (and on the Stock Exchange) say in soft, cautious
accents:

"Then I'll ask him to let me look at the ring and I'll drop it. You
pick it up. But remember, it's a pure accident, and you don't know
me. I can't have my name mixed up in a thing like this. You're sure
he's really unhinged?"

"Quite," said Gerald; "he's quite mad about that ring. He'll follow it
anywhere. I know he will. And think of his sorrowing relations." 

"I do I do," said Mr. Ugli kindly; "that's all I do think of, of
course." 

He went up the stairs to the other office, and Gerald heard the
voice of That telling his clerks that he was going out to lunch.
Then the horrible Ugly-Wugly and Jimmy, hardly less horrible in
the eyes of Gerald, passed down the stairs where, in the dusk of the
lower landing, two boys were making themselves as
undistinguishable as possible, and so out into the street, talking of
stocks and shares, bears and bulls. The two boys followed.

"I say," the door-mat-headed boy whispered admiringly, "whatever
are you up to?"

"You'll see," said Gerald recklessly. "Come on!" 

"You tell me. I must be getting back." 

"Well, I'll tell you, but you won't believe me. That old gentleman's
not really old at all he's my young brother suddenly turned into
what you see. The other's not real at all. He's only just old clothes
and nothing inside." 

"He looks it, I must say," the boy admitted; "but I say you do stick
it on, don't you?"

"Well, my brother was turned like that by a magic ring." 

"There ain't no such thing as magic," said the boy. "I learnt that at
school." 

"All right," said Gerald. "Good-bye." 

"Oh, go ahead!" said the boy; "you do stick it on, though." 

"Well, that magic ring. If I can get hold of It I shall just wish we
were all in a certain place. And we shall be. And then I can deal
with both of them." 

"Deal?"

"Yes, the ring won't unwish anything you've wished. That undoes
itself with time, like a spring uncoiling. But it'll give you a
brand-new wish I'm almost certain of it. Anyhow, I'm going to
chance it." 

"You are a rotter, aren't you?" said the boy respectfully.

"You wait and see," Gerald repeated.

"I say, you aren't going into this swell place! You can't?"

The boy paused, appalled at the majesty of Pym's.

"Yes, I am they can't turn us out as long as we behave. You come
along, too. I'll stand lunch."

I don't know why Gerald clung so to this boy. He wasn't a very nice
boy. Perhaps it was because he was the only person Gerald knew
in London to speak to  except That-which-had-been-Jimmy and the
Ugly-Wugly; and he did not want to talk to either of them.

What happened next happened so quickly that, as Gerald said later,
it was "just like magic". The restaurant was crowded busy men
were hastily bolting the food hurriedly brought by busy waitresses.
There was a clink of forks and plates, the gurgle of beer from
bottles, the hum of talk, and the smell of many good things to eat.

"Two chops, please," Gerald had just said, playing with a plainly
shown handful of money, so as to leave no doubt of his honourable
intentions. Then at the next table he heard the words, "Ah, yes,
curious old family heirloom," the ring was drawn off the finger of
That, and Mr. U. W. Ugli, murmuring something about a unique
curio, reached his impossible hand out for it. The door-mat-headed
boy was watching breathlessly.

"There's a ring right enough," he owned. And then the ring slipped
from the hand of Mr. U. W. Ugli and skidded along the floor.
Gerald pounced on it like a greyhound on a hare. He thrust the dull
circlet on his finger and cried out aloud in that crowded place:

"I wish Jimmy and I were inside that door behind the statue of
Flora." 

It was the only safe place he could think of.

The lights and sounds and scents of the restaurant died away as a
wax-drop dies in fire a rain-drop in water. I don't know, and Gerald
never knew, what happened in that restaurant. There was nothing
about it in the papers, though Gerald looked anxiously for
'Extraordinary Disappearance of well-known City Man.' What the
door-mat-headed boy did or thought I don't know either. No more
does Gerald. But he would like to know, whereas I don't care
tuppence. The world went on all right, anyhow, whatever he
thought or did. The lights and the sounds and the scents of Pym's
died out. In place of the light there was darkness; in place of the
sounds there was silence; and in place of the scent of beef, pork,
mutton, fish, veal, cabbage, onions, carrots, beer, and tobacco
there was the musty, damp scent of a place underground that has
been long shut up.

Gerald felt sick and giddy, and there was something at the back of
his mind that he knew would make him feel sicker and giddier as
soon as he should have the sense to remember what it was.
Meantime it was important to think of proper words to soothe the
City man that had once been Jimmy to keep him quiet till Time,
like a spring uncoiling, should bring the reversal of the spell make
all things as they were and as they ought to be. But he fought in
vain for words. There were none. Nor were they needed. For
through the deep darkness came a voice and it was not the voice of
that City man who had been Jimmy, but the voice of that very
Jimmy who was Gerald's little brother, and who had wished that
unlucky wish for riches that could only be answered by changing
all that was Jimmy, young and poor, to all that Jimmy, rich and
old, would have been. Another voice said: "Jerry, Jerry! Are you
awake? I've had such a rum dream." 

And then there was a moment when nothing was said or done.

Gerald felt through the thick darkness, and the thick silence, and
the thick scent of old earth shut up, and he got hold of Jimmy's
hand.

"It's all right, Jimmy, old chap," he said; "it's not a dream now. It's
that beastly ring again. I had to wish us here, to get you back at all
out of your dream." 

"Wish us where?" Jimmy held on to the hand in a way that in the
daylight of life he would have been the first to call babyish.

"Inside the passage behind the Flora statue," said Gerald, adding,
"it's all right, really." 

"Oh, I dare say it's all right," Jimmy answered through the dark,
with an irritation not strong enough to make him loosen his hold of
his brother's hand. "But how are we going to get out?"

Then Gerald knew what it was that was waiting to make him feel
more giddy than the lightning flight from Cheapside to Yalding
Towers had been able to make him. But he said stoutly:

"I'll wish us out, of course." Though all the time he knew that the
ring would not undo its given wishes.

It didn't.

Gerald wished. He handed the ring carefully to Jimmy, through the
thick darkness. And Jimmy wished.

And there they still were, in that black passage behind Flora, that
had led in the case of one Ugly-Wugly at least to 'a good hotel'.
And the stone door was shut. And they did not know even which
way to turn to it.

"If I only had some matches!" said Gerald.

"Why didn't you leave me in the dream?" Jimmy almost
whimpered. "It was light there, and I was just going to have
salmon and cucumber."

"I," rejoined Gerald in gloom, "was just going to have steak and
fried potatoes." 

The silence, and the darkness, and the earthy scent were all they
had now.

"I always wondered what it would be like," said Jimmy in low,
even tones, "to be buried alive. And now I know! Oh! his voice
suddenly rose to a shriek, "it isn't true, it isn't! It's a dream that's
what it is!" 

There was a pause while you could have counted ten. Then "Yes,"
said Gerald bravely, through the scent and the silence and the
darkness, "it's just a dream, Jimmy, old chap. We'll just hold on,
and call out now and then just for the lark of the thing. But it's
really only a dream, of course." 

Of course, said Jimmy in the silence and the darkness and the
scent of old earth.

There is a curtain, thin as gossamer, clear as glass, strong as iron,
that hangs for ever between the world of magic and the world that
seems to us to be real. And when once people have found one of
the little weak spots in that curtain which are marked by magic
rings, and amulets, and the like, almost anything may happen.
Thus it is not surprising that Mabel and Kathleen, conscientiously
conducting one of the dullest dolls tea-parties at which either had
ever assisted, should suddenly, and both at once, have felt a
strange, unreasonable, but quite irresistible desire to return
instantly to the Temple of Flora even at the cost of leaving the
dolls tea-service in an unwashed state, and only half the raisins
eaten. They went as one has to go when the magic impulse drives
one against their better judgement, against their wills almost.

And the nearer they came to the Temple of Flora, in the golden
hush of the afternoon, the more certain each was that they could
not possibly have done otherwise.

And this explains exactly how it was that when Gerald and Jimmy,
holding hands in the darkness of the passage, uttered their first
concerted yell, "just for the lark of the thing", that yell was
instantly answered from outside.

A crack of light showed in that part of the passage where they had
least expected the door to be. The stone door itself swung slowly
open, and they were out of it, in the Temple of Flora, blinking in
the good daylight, an unresisting prey to Kathleen's embraces and
the questionings of Mabel.

"And you left that Ugly-Wugly loose in London," Mabel pointed
out; "you might have wished it to be with you, too." 

"It's all right where it is," said Gerald. "I couldn't think of
everything. And besides, no, thank you! Now we'll go home and
seal up the ring in an envelope." 

"I haven't done anything with the ring yet," said Kathleen.

"I shouldn't think you'd want to when you see the sort of things it
does with you," said Gerald.

"It wouldn't do things like that if I was wishing with it," Kathleen
protested,

"Look here," said Mabel, "let's just put it back in the treasure-room
and have done with it. I oughtn't ever to have taken it away, really.
It's a sort of stealing. It's quite as bad, really, as Eliza borrowing it
to astonish her gentleman friend with."

"I don't mind putting it back if you like," said Gerald, "only if any
of us do think of a sensible wish you'll let us have it out again, of
course?"

"Of course, of course," Mabel agreed.

So they trooped up to the castle, and Mabel once more worked the
spring that let down the panelling and showed the jewels, and the
ring was put back among the odd dull ornaments that Mabel had
once said were magic.

"How innocent it looks!" said Gerald. "You wouldn't think there
was any magic about it. It's just like an old silly ring. I wonder if
what Mabel said about the other things is true! Suppose we try." 

"Don't!" said Kathleen. "I think magic things are spiteful. They just
enjoy getting you into tight places." 

"I'd like to try," said Mabel, "only well, everything's been rather
upsetting, and I've forgotten what I said anything was." 

So had the others. Perhaps that was why, when Gerald said that a
bronze buckle laid on the foot would have the effect of
seven-league boots, it didn't; when Jimmy, a little of the City man
he had been clinging to him still, said that the steel collar would
ensure your always having money in your pockets, his own
remained empty; and when Mabel and Kathleen invented qualities
of the most delightful nature for various rings and chains and
brooches, nothing at all happened.

"It's only the ring that's magic," said Mabel at last; "and, I say!" she
added, in quite a different voice.

"What?"

"Suppose even the ring isn't!" 

"But we know it is."

"I don't," said Mabel. "I believe it's not today at all. I believe it's the
other day we've just dreamed all these things. It's the day I made up
that nonsense about the ring." 

"No, it isn't," said Gerald; "you were in your Princess-clothes then. 

"What Princess-clothes?" said Mabel, opening her dark eyes very
wide.

"Oh, don't be silly," said Gerald wearily.

"I'm not silly," said Mabel; "and I think it's time you went. I'm sure
Jimmy wants his tea." 

"Of course I do," said Jimmy. "But you had got the
Princess-clothes that day. Come along; let's shut up the shutters
and leave the ring in its long home." 

"What ring?" said Mabel.

"Don't take any notice of her," said Gerald. "She's only trying to be
funny." 

"No, I'm not," said Mabel; "but I'm inspired like a Python or a
Sibylline lady. What ring?"

"The wishing-ring," said Kathleen; "the invisibility ring." 

"Don't you see now," said Mabel, her eyes wider than ever, "the
ring's what you say it is? That's how it came to make us invisible I
just said it. Oh, we can't leave it here, if that's what it is. It isn't
stealing, really, when it's as valuable as that, you see. Say what it
is. 

"It's a wishing-ring," said Jimmy.

"We've had that before and you had your silly wish," said Mabel,
more and more excited. "I say it isn't a wishing-ring. I say it's a ring
that makes the wearer four yards high." 

She had caught up the ring as she spoke, and even as she spoke the
ring showed high above the children's heads on the finger of an
impossible Mabel, who was, indeed, twelve feet high.

"Now you've done it!" said Gerald and he was right. It was in vain
that Mabel asserted that the ring was a wishing-ring. It quite
clearly wasn't; it was what she had said it was.

"And you can't tell at all how long the effect will last," said Gerald.
"Look at the invisibleness." This is difficult to do, but the others
understood him.

"It may last for days," said Kathleen. "Oh, Mabel, it was silly of
you!" 

"That's right, rub it in," said Mabel bitterly; "you should have
believed me when I said it was what I said it was. Then I shouldn't
have had to show you, and I shouldn't be this silly size. What am I
to do now, I should like to know?"

"We must conceal you till you get your right size again that's all,"
said Gerald practically.

"Yes but where?" said Mabel, stamping a foot twenty-four inches
long.

"In one of the empty rooms. You wouldn't be afraid?"

"Of course not," said Mabel. "Oh, I do wish we'd just put the ring
back and left it." 

"Well, it wasn't us that didn't," said Jimmy, with more truth than
grammar.

"I shall put it back now," said Mabel, tugging at it.

"I wouldn't if I were you," said Gerald thoughtfully. "You don't
want to stay that length, do you? And unless the ring's on your
finger when the time's up, I dare say it wouldn't act." 

The exalted Mabel sullenly touched the spring. The panels slowly
slid into place, and all the bright jewels were hidden. Once more
the room was merely eight-sided, panelled, sunlit, and
unfurnished.

"Now," said Mabel, "where am I to hide? It's a good thing auntie
gave me leave to stay the night with you. As it is, one of you will
have to stay the night with me. I'm not going to be left alone, the
silly height I am." 

Height was the right word; Mabel had said "four yards high" and
she was four yards high. But she was hardly any thicker than when
her height was four feet seven, and the effect was, as Gerald
remarked, "wonderfully worm-like". Her clothes had, of course,
grown with her, and she looked like a little girl reflected in one of
those long bent mirrors at Rosherville Gardens, that make stout
people look so happily slender, and slender people so sadly
scraggy. She sat down suddenly on the floor, and it was like a
four-fold foot-rule folding itself up.

"It's no use sitting there, girl," said Gerald.

"I'm not sitting here," retorted Mabel; "I only got down so as to be
able to get through the door. It'll have to be hands and knees
through most places for me now, I suppose." 

"Aren't you hungry?" Jimmy asked suddenly.

"I don't know," said Mabel desolately; "it's it's such a long way
off!" 

"Well, I'll scout," said Gerald; "if the coast's clear " 

"Look here," said Mabel, "I think I'd rather be out of doors till it
gets dark." 

"You can't. Someone's certain to see you."

"Not if I go through the yew-hedge," said Mabel. "There's a
yew-hedge with a passage along its inside like the box-hedge in
The Luck of the Vails. 

"In what?"

"The Luck of the Vails. It's a ripping book. It was that book first
set me on to hunt for hidden doors in panels and things. If I crept
along that on my front, like a serpent it comes out amongst the
rhododendrons, close by the dinosaurus we could camp there. 

"There's tea," said Gerald, who had had no dinner.

"That's just what there isn't," said Jimmy, who had had none either.

"Oh, you won't desert me!" said Mabel. "Look here I'll write to
auntie. She'll give you the things for a picnic, if she's there and
awake. If she isn't, one of the maids will." 

So she wrote on a leaf of Gerald's invaluable pocketbook:
"DEAREST AUNTIE Please may we have some things for a
picnic? Gerald will bring them. I would come myself, but I am a
little tired. I think I have been growing rather fast. Your loving
niece, MABEL." "P.S. Lots, please, because some of us are very
hungry." 

It was found difficult, but possible, for Mabel to creep along the
tunnel in the yew-hedge. Possible, but slow, so that the three had
hardly had time to settle themselves among the rhododendrons and
to wonder bitterly what on earth Gerald was up to, to be such a
time gone, when he returned, panting under the weight of a
covered basket. He dumped it down on the fine grass carpet,
groaned, and added, "But it's worth it. Where's our Mabel?"

The long, pale face of Mabel peered out from rhododendron
leaves, very near the ground.

"I look just like anybody else like this, don't I?" she asked
anxiously; "all the rest of me's miles away, under different bushes." 

"We've covered up the bits between the bushes with bracken and
leaves," said Kathleen, avoiding the question; "don't wriggle,
Mabel, or you'll waggle them off." 

Jimmy was eagerly unpacking the basket. It was a generous tea. A
long loaf, butter in a cabbage-leaf, a bottle of milk, a bottle of
water, cake, and large, smooth, yellow gooseberries in a box that
had once held an extra-sized bottle of somebody's matchless
something for the hair and moustache. Mabel cautiously advanced
her incredible arms from the rhododendron and leaned on one of
her spindly elbows, Gerald cut bread and butter, while Kathleen
obligingly ran round, at Mabel's request, to see that the green
coverings had not dropped from any of the remoter parts of
Mabel's person. Then there was a happy, hungry silence, broken
only by those brief, impassioned suggestions natural to such an
occasion:

"More cake, please." 

"Milk ahoy, there." 

"Chuck us the goosegogs." 

Everyone grew calmer more contented with their lot. A pleasant
feeling, half tiredness and half restfulness, crept to the extremities
of the party. Even the unfortunate Mabel was conscious of it in her
remote feet, that lay crossed under the third rhododendron to the
north-north-west of the tea-party. Gerald did but voice the feelings
of the others when he said, not without regret:

"Well, I'm a new man, but I couldn't eat so much as another
goosegog if you paid me." 

"I could," said Mabel; "yes, I know they re all gone, and I've had
my share. But I could. It's me being so long, I suppose." 

A delicious after-food peace filled the summer air. At a little
distance the green-lichened grey of the vast stone dinosaurus
showed through the shrubs. He, too, seemed peaceful and happy.
Gerald caught his stone eye through a gap in the foliage. His
glance seemed somehow sympathetic.

"I dare say he liked a good meal in his day," said Gerald, stretching
luxuriously.

"Who did?"

"The dino what s-his-name," said Gerald.

"He had a meal today," said Kathleen, and giggled.

"Yes didn't he?" said Mabel, giggling also.

"You mustn't laugh lower than your chest," said Kathleen
anxiously, "or your green stuff will joggle off." 

"What do you mean a meal?" Jimmy asked suspiciously. "What are
you sniggering about?"

"He had a meal. Things to put in his inside," said Kathleen, still
giggling.

"Oh, be funny if you want to," said Jimmy, suddenly cross. "We
don't want to know do we, Jerry?"

"I do," said Gerald witheringly; "I'm dying to know. Wake me, you
girls, when you've finished pretending you're not going to tell."

He tilted his hat over his eyes, and lay back in the attitude of
slumber.

"Oh, don't be stupid!" said Kathleen hastily. "It's only that we fed
the dinosaurus through the hole in his stomach with the clothes the
Ugly-Wuglies were made of!" 

"We can take them home with us, then," said Gerald, chewing the
white end of a grass stalk, "so that's all right." 

"Look here," said Kathleen suddenly; "I've got an idea. Let me
have the ring a bit. I won't say what the idea is, in case it doesn't
come off, and then you'd say I was silly. I'll give it back before we
go." 

"Oh, but you aren't going yet!" said Mabel, pleading. She pulled
off the ring. "Of course, she added earnestly, "I'm only too glad for
you to try any idea, however silly it is." 

Now, Kathleen's idea was quite simple. It was only that perhaps
the ring would change its powers if someone else renamed it 
someone who was not under the power of its enchantment. So the
moment it had passed from the long, pale hand of Mabel to one of
her own fat, warm, red paws, she jumped up, crying, "Let's go and
empty the dinosaurus now, and started to run swiftly towards that
prehistoric monster. She had a good start. She wanted to say aloud,
yet so that the others could not hear her, "This is a wishing-ring. It
gives you any wish you choose. And she did say it. And no one
heard her, except the birds and a squirrel or two, and perhaps a
stone faun, whose pretty face seemed to turn a laughing look on
her as she raced past its pedestal.

The way was uphill; it was sunny, and Kathleen had run her
hardest, though her brothers caught her up before she reached the
great black shadow of the dinosaurus. So that when she did reach
that shadow she was very hot indeed and not in any state to decide
calmly on the best wish to ask for.

"I'll get up and move the things down, because I know exactly
where I put them," she said.

Gerald made a back, Jimmy assisted her to climb up, and she
disappeared through the hole into the dark inside of the monster. In
a moment a shower began to descend from the opening a shower
of empty waistcoats, trousers with wildly waving legs, and coats
with sleeves uncontrolled.

"Heads below!" called Kathleen, and down came walking-sticks
and golf-sticks and hockey-sticks and broom-sticks, rattling and
chattering to each other as they came.

"Come on," said Jimmy.

"Hold on a bit," said Gerald. "I'm coming up. He caught the edge
of the hole above in his hands and jumped. Just as he got his
shoulders through the opening and his knees on the edge he heard
Kathleen's boots on the floor of the dinosaurus's inside, and
Kathleen's voice saying: "Isn't it jolly cool in here? I suppose
statues are always cool. I do wish I was a statue. Oh!" 

The "oh" was a cry of horror and anguish. And it seemed to be cut
off very short by a dreadful stony silence.

"What's up?" Gerald asked. But in his heart he knew. He climbed
up into the great hollow. In the little light that came up through the
hole he could see something white against the grey of the
creature's sides. He felt in his pockets, still kneeling, struck a
match, and when the blue of its flame changed to clear yellow he
looked up to see what he had known he would see the face of
Kathleen, white, stony, and lifeless. Her hair was white, too, and
her hands, clothes, shoes everything was white, with the hard, cold
whiteness of marble. Kathleen had her wish: she was a statue.
There was a long moment of perfect stillness in the inside of the
dinosaurus. Gerald could not speak. It was too sudden, too terrible.
It was worse than anything that had happened yet. Then he turned
and spoke down out of that cold, stony silence to Jimmy, in the
green, sunny, rustling, live world outside.

"Jimmy, he said, in tones perfectly ordinary and matter of fact,
"Kathleen's gone and said that ring was a wishing-ring. And so it
was, of course. I see now what she was up to, running like that.
And then the young duffer went and wished she was a statue." 

"And she is?" asked Jimmy, below.

"Come up and have a look," said Gerald. And Jimmy came, partly
with a pull from Gerald and partly with a jump of his own.

"She's a statue, right enough," he said, in awestruck tones. "Isn't it
awful!" 

"Not at all," said Gerald firmly. "Come on let's go and tell Mabel."

To Mabel, therefore, who had discreetly remained with her long
length screened by rhododendrons, the two boys returned and
broke the news. They broke it as one breaks a bottle with a
pistol-shot.

"Oh, my goodness!" said Mabel, and writhed through her long
length so that the leaves and fern tumbled off in little showers, and
she felt the sun suddenly hot on the backs of her legs. "What next?
Oh, my goodness!" 

"She'll come all right," said Gerald, with outward calm.

"Yes; but what about me?" Mabel urged. "I haven't got the ring.
And my time will be up before hers is. Couldn't you get it back?
Can't you get it off her hand? I'd put it back on her hand the very
minute I was my right size again faithfully I would." 

"Well, it's nothing to blub about," said Jimmy, answering the sniffs
that had served her in this speech for commas and full-stops; "not
for you, anyway." 

"Ah! you don't know," said Mabel; "you don't know what it is to be
as long as I am. Do do try and get the ring. After all, it is my ring
more than any of the rest of yours, anyhow, because I did find it,
and I did say it was magic." 

The sense of justice always present in the breast of Gerald awoke
to this appeal.

"I expect the ring's turned to stone her boots have, and all her
clothes. But I'll go and see. Only if I can't, I can't, and it's no use
your making a silly fuss." 

The first match lighted inside the dinosaurus showed the ring dark
on the white hand of the statuesque Kathleen.

The fingers were stretched straight out. Gerald took hold of the
ring, and, to his surprise, it slipped easily off the cold, smooth
marble finger.

"I say, Cathy, old girl, I am sorry," he said, and gave the marble
hand a squeeze. Then it came to him that perhaps she could hear
him. So he told the statue exactly what he and the others meant to
do. This helped to clear up his ideas as to what he and the others
did mean to do. So that when, after thumping the statue
hearteningly on its marble back, he returned to the rhododendrons,
he was able to give his orders with the clear precision of a born
leader, as he later said. And since the others had, neither of them,
thought of any plans, his plan was accepted, as the plans of born
leaders are apt to be.

"Here's your precious ring," he said to Mabel. "Now you're not
frightened of anything, are you?"

"No," said Mabel, in surprise. "I'd forgotten that. Look here, I'll
stay here or farther up in the wood if you'll leave me all the coats,
so that I shan't be cold in the night. Then I shall be here when
Kathleen comes out of the stone again." 

"Yes," said Gerald, "that was exactly the born leader's idea. 

"You two go home and tell Mademoiselle that Kathleen's staying
at the Towers. She is." 

"Yes," said Jimmy, "she certainly is." 

"The magic goes in seven-hour lots," said Gerald; "your invisibility
was twenty-one hours, mine fourteen, Eliza's seven. When it was a
wishing-ring it began with seven. But there's no knowing what
number it will be really. So there's no knowing which of you will
come right first. Anyhow, we'll sneak out by the cistern window
and come down the trellis, after we've said good night to
Mademoiselle, and come and have a look at you before we go to
bed. I think you'd better come close up to the dinosaurus and we'll
leaf you over before we go." 

Mabel crawled into cover of the taller trees, and there stood up
looking as slender as a poplar and as unreal as the wrong answer to
a sum in long division. It was to her an easy matter to crouch
beneath the dinosaurus, to put her head up through the opening,
and thus to behold the white form of Kathleen.

"It's all right, dear," she told the stone image; "I shall be quite close
to you. You call me as soon as you feel you're coming right again." 

The statue remained motionless, as statues usually do, and Mabel
withdrew her head, lay down, was covered up, and left. The boys
went home. It was the only reasonable thing to do. It would never
have done for Mademoiselle to become anxious and set the police
on their track. Everyone felt that. The shock of discovering the
missing Kathleen, not only in a dinosaurus's stomach, but, further,
in a stone statue of herself, might well have unhinged the mind of
any constable, to say nothing of the mind of Mademoiselle, which,
being foreign, would necessarily be a mind more light and easy to
upset. While as for Mabel 

"Well, to look at her as she is now," said Gerald, "why, it would
send any one off their chump except us." 

"We're different, said Jimmy; "our chumps have had to jolly well
get used to things. It would take a lot to upset us now." 

"Poor old Cathy! all the same," said Gerald. "Yes, of course," said
Jimmy.

The sun had died away behind the black trees and the moon was
rising. Mabel, her preposterous length covered with coats,
waistcoats, and trousers laid along it, slept peacefully in the chill
of the evening. Inside the dinosaurus Kathleen, alive in her marble,
slept too. She had heard Gerald's words had seen the lighted
matches. She was Kathleen just the same as ever only she was
Kathleen in a case of marble that would not let her move. It would
not have let her cry, even if she wanted to. But she had not wanted
to cry. Inside, the marble was not cold or hard. It seemed,
somehow, to be softly lined with warmth and pleasantness and
safety. Her back did not ache with stooping. Her limbs were not
stiff with the hours that they had stayed moveless. Everything was
well better than well. One had only to wait quietly and quite
comfortably and one would come out of this stone case, and once
more be the Kathleen one had always been used to being. So she
waited happily and calmly, and presently waiting changed to not
waiting to not anything; and, close held in the soft inwardness of
the marble, she slept as peacefully and calmly as though she had
been lying in her own bed.

She was awakened by the fact that she was not lying in her own
bed was not, indeed, lying at all by the fact that she was standing
and that her feet had pins and needles in them. Her arms, too, held
out in that odd way, were stiff and tired. She rubbed her eyes,
yawned, and remembered. She had been a statue a statue inside the
stone dinosaurus.

"Now I'm alive again," was her instant conclusion, "and I'll get out
of it." 

She sat down, put her feet through the hole that showed faintly
grey in the stone beast's underside, and as she did so a long, slow
lurch threw her sideways on the stone where she sat. The
dinosaurus was moving!

"Oh!" said Kathleen inside it, "how dreadful! It must be moonlight,
and it's come alive, like Gerald said. 

It was indeed moving. She could see through the hole the changing
surface of grass and bracken and moss as it waddled heavily along.
She dared not drop through the hole while it moved, for fear it
should crush her to death with its gigantic feet. And with that
thought came another: where was Mabel? Somewhere somewhere
near? Suppose one of the great feet planted itself on some part of
Mabel's inconvenient length? Mabel being the size she was now it
would be quite difficult not to step on some part or other of her, if
she should happen to be in one's way quite difficult, however much
one tried. And the dinosaurus would not try: Why should it?
Kathleen hung in an agony over the round opening. The huge beast
swung from side to side. It was going faster; it was no good, she
dared not jump out. Anyhow, they must be quite away from Mabel
by now. Faster and faster went the dinosaurus. The floor of its
stomach sloped. They were going downhill. Twigs cracked and
broke as it pushed through a belt of evergreen oaks; gravel
crunched, ground beneath its stony feet. Then stone met stone.
There was a pause. A splash! They were close to water the lake
where by moonlight Hermes fluttered and Janus and the
dinosaurus swam together. Kathleen dropped swiftly through the
hole on to the flat marble that edged the basin, rushed sideways,
and stood panting in the shadow of a statue's pedestal. Not a
moment too soon, for even as she crouched the monster lizard
slipped heavily into the water, drowning a thousand smooth,
shining lily pads, and swam away towards the central island.

"Be still, little lady. I leap!" The voice came from the pedestal, and
next moment Phoebus had jumped from the pedestal in his little
temple, clearing the steps, and landing a couple of yards away.

"You are new," said Phoebus over his graceful shoulder. "I should
not have forgotten you if once I had seen you." 

"I am," said Kathleen, "quite, quite new. And I didn't know you
could talk." 

"Why not?" Phoebus laughed. "You can talk." 

"But I'm alive." 

"Am not I?" he asked.

"Oh, yes, I suppose so," said Kathleen, distracted, but not afraid;
"only I thought you had to have the ring on before one could even
see you move." 

Phoebus seemed to understand her, which was rather to his credit,
for she had certainly not expressed herself with clearness.

"Ah! that's for mortals," he said. "We can hear and see each other
in the few moments when life is ours. That is a part of the
beautiful enchantment." 

"But I am a mortal," said Kathleen.

"You are as modest as you are charming," said Phoebus Apollo
absently; "the white water calls me! I go," and the next moment
rings of liquid silver spread across the lake, widening and
widening, from the spot where the white joined hands of the
Sun-god had struck the water as he dived.

Kathleen turned and went up the hill towards the rhododendron
bushes. She must find Mabel, and they must go home at once. If
only Mabel was of a size that one could conveniently take home
with one! Most likely, at this hour of enchantments, she was.
Kathleen, heartened by the thought, hurried on. She passed through
the rhododendron bushes, remembered the pointed painted paper
face that had looked out from the glossy leaves, expected to be
frightened  and wasn't. She found Mabel easily enough, and much
more easily than she would have done had Mabel been as she
wished to find her. For quite a long way off in the moonlight, she
could see that long and worm-like form, extended to its full twelve
feet and covered with coats and trousers and waistcoats. Mabel
looked like a drain-pipe that has been covered in sacks in frosty
weather. Kathleen touched her long cheek gently, and she woke.

"What's up?" she said sleepily.

"It's only me," Kathleen explained.

"How cold your hands are!" said Mabel.

"Wake up," said Kathleen, "and let's talk." 

"Can't we go home now? I'm awfully tired, and it's so long since
tea-time." 

"You're too long to go home yet," said Kathleen sadly, and then
Mabel remembered.

She lay with closed eyes then suddenly she stirred and cried out:

"Oh! Cathy, I feel so funny like one of those horn snakes when you
make it go short to get it into its box. I am yes I know I am "

She was; and Kathleen, watching her, agreed that it was exactly
like the shortening of a horn spiral snake between the closing
hands of a child. Mabel's distant feet drew near Mabel's long, lean
arms grew shorter Mabel's face was no longer half a yard long.

"You're coming right you are! Oh, I am so glad!" cried Kathleen.

"I know I am," said Mabel; and as she said it she became once
more Mabel, not only in herself which, of course, she had been all
the time, but in her outward appearance.

"You are all right. Oh, hooray! hooray! I am so glad!" said
Kathleen kindly; "and now we'll go home at once, dear." 

"Go home?" said Mabel, slowly sitting up and staring at Kathleen
with her big dark eyes. "Go home like that?"

"Like what?" Kathleen asked impatiently.

"Why, you," was Mabel's odd reply.

"I'm all right," said Kathleen. "Come on." 

"Do you mean to say you don't know?" said Mabel. "Look at
yourself your hands your dress everything." 

Kathleen looked at her hands. They were of marble whiteness. Her
dress, too her shoes, her stockings, even the ends of her hair. She
was white as new-fallen snow.

"What is it?" she asked, beginning to tremble. "What am I all this
horrid colour for?"

"Don't you see? Oh, Cathy, don't you see? You've not come right.
You're a statue still." 

"I'm not I'm alive I'm talking to you." 

"I know you are, darling," said Mabel, soothing her as one soothes
a fractious child. "That's because it's moonlight." 

"But you can see I'm alive."

"Of course I can. I've got the ring." 

"But I'm all right; I know I am." 

"Don't you see," said Mabel gently, taking her white marble hand,
"you're not all right? It's moonlight, and you're a statue, and you've
just come alive with all the other statues. And when the moon goes
down you'll just be a statue again. That's the difficulty, dear, about
our going home again. You're just a statue still, only you've come
alive with the other marble things. Where's the dinosaurus?"

"In his bath," said Kathleen, "and so are all the other stone beasts."

Well," said Mabel, trying to look on the bright side of things, "then
we've got one thing, at any rate, to be thankful for!" 

"If," said Kathleen, sitting disconsolate in her marble, "if I am
really a statue come alive, I wonder you're not afraid of me." 

"I've got the ring," said Mabel with decision. "Cheer up, dear! you
will soon be better. Try not to think about it." 

She spoke as you speak to a child that has cut its finger, or fallen
down on the garden path, and rises up with grazed knees to which
gravel sticks intimately.

"I know," Kathleen absently answered.

"And I've been thinking," said Mabel brightly, "we might find Out
a lot about this magic place, if the other statues aren't too proud to
talk to us."

"They aren't," Kathleen assured her; "at least, Phoebus wasn't. He
was most awfully polite and nice." 

"Where is he?" Mabel asked.

"In the lake he was," said Kathleen.

"Then let's go down there," said Mabel. "Oh, Cathy! it is jolly
being your own proper thickness again." She jumped up, and the
withered ferns and branches that had covered her long length and
had been gathered closely upon her as she shrank to her proper size
fell as forest leaves do when sudden storms tear them. But the
white Kathleen did not move.

The two sat on the grey moonlit grass with the quiet of the night
all about them. The great park was still as a painted picture; only
the splash of the fountains and the far-off whistle of the Western
express broke the silence, which, at the same time, then deepened.

"What cheer, little sister!" said a voice behind them a golden
voice. They turned quick, startled heads, as birds, surprised, might
turn. There in the moonlight stood Phoebus, dripping still from the
lake, and smiling at them, very gentle, very friendly.

"Oh, it's you!" said Kathleen.

"None other," said Phoebus cheerfully. "Who is your friend, the
earth-child?"

"This is Mabel," said Kathleen.

Mabel got up and bowed, hesitated, and held out a hand.

"I am your slave, little lady," said Phoebus, enclosing it in marble
fingers. "But I fail to understand how you can see us, and why you
do not fear."

Mabel held up the hand that wore the ring.

"Quite sufficient explanation," said Phoebus; "but since you have
that, why retain your mottled earthy appearance? Become a statue,
and swim with us in the lake." 

"I can't swim," said Mabel evasively.

"Nor yet me," said Kathleen.

"You can," said Phoebus. "All statues that come to life are
proficient in all athletic exercises. And you, child of the dark eyes
and hair like night, wish yourself a statue and join our revels." 

"I'd rather not, if you will excuse me," said Mabel cautiously. "You
see ... this ring ... you wish for things, and you never know how
long they're going to last. It would be jolly and all that to be a
statue now, but in the morning I should wish I hadn't." 

"Earth-folk often do, they say," mused Phoebus. "But, child, you
seem ignorant of the powers of your ring. Wish exactly, and the
ring will exactly perform. If you give no limit of time, strange
enchantments woven by Arithmos the outcast god of numbers will
creep in and spoil the spell. Say thus: "I wish that till the dawn I
may be a statue of living marble, even as my child friend, and that
after that time I may be as before Mabel of the dark eyes and
night-coloured hair." 

"Oh, yes, do, it would be so jolly!" cried Kathleen. "Do, Mabel!
And if we're both statues, shall we be afraid of the dinosaurus?"

"In the world of living marble fear is not," said Phoebus. "Are we
not brothers, we and the dinosaurus brethren alike wrought of
stone and life?"

"And could I swim if I did?"

"Swim, and float, and dive and with the ladies of Olympus spread
the nightly feast, eat of the food of the gods, drink their cup, listen
to the song that is undying, and catch the laughter of immortal
lips." 

"A feast!" said Kathleen. "Oh, Mabel, do! You would if you were
as hungry as I am." 

"But it won't be real food," urged Mabel.

"It will be real to you, as to us," said Phoebus; "there is no other
realness even in your many-coloured world." 

Still Mabel hesitated. Then she looked at Kathleen's legs and
suddenly said: "Very well, I will. But first I'll take off my shoes
and stockings. Marble boots look simply awful especially the
laces. And a marble stocking that's coming down and mine do!" 

She had pulled off shoes and stockings and pinafore. "Mabel has
the sense of beauty," said Phoebus approvingly. "Speak the spell,
child, and I will lead you to the ladies of Olympus." 

Mabel, trembling a little, spoke it, and there were two little live
statues in the moonlit glade. Tall Phoebus took a hand of each.

"Come run!" he cried. And they ran.

"Oh it is jolly!" Mabel panted. "Look at my white feet in the grass!
I thought it would feel stiff to be a statue, but it doesn't." 

"There is no stiffness about the immortals," laughed the Sun-god.
"For tonight you are one of us."

And with that they ran down the slope to the lake.

"Jump!" he cried, and they jumped, and the water splashed up
round three white, gleaming shapes.

"Oh! I can swim!" breathed Kathleen.

"So can I," said Mabel.

"Of course you can," said Phoebus. "Now three times round the
lake, and then make for the island." 

Side by side the three swam, Phoebus swimming gently to keep
pace with the children. Their marble clothes did not seem to
interfere at all with their swimming, as your clothes would if you
suddenly jumped into the basin of the Trafalgar Square fountains
and tried to swim there. And they swam most beautifully, with that
perfect ease and absence of effort or tiredness which you must
have noticed about your own swimming in dreams. And it was the
most lovely place to swim in; the water-lilies, whose long, snaky
stalks are so inconvenient to ordinary swimmers, did not in the
least interfere with the movements of marble arms and legs. The
moon was high in the clear sky-dome. The weeping willows,
cypresses, temples, terraces, banks of trees and shrubs, and the
wonderful old house, all added to the romantic charm of the scene.

"This is the nicest thing the ring has brought us yet," said Mabel,
through a languid but perfect side-stroke.

"I thought you'd enjoy it," said Phoebus kindly; "now once more
round, and then the island." 

They landed on the island amid a fringe of rushes, yarrow,
willow-herb, loose-strife, and a few late, scented, powdery, creamy
heads of meadow-sweet. The island was bigger than it looked from
the bank, and it seemed covered with trees and shrubs. But when,
Phoebus leading the way, they went into the shadow of these, they
perceived that beyond the trees lay a light, much nearer to them
than the other side of the island could possibly be. And almost at
once they were through the belt of trees, and could see where the
light came from. The trees they had just passed among made a
dark circle round a big cleared space, standing up thick and dark,
like a crowd round a football field, as Kathleen remarked.

First came a wide, smooth ring of lawn, then marble steps going
down to a round pool, where there were no water-lilies, only gold
and silver fish that darted here and there like flashes of quicksilver
and dark flames. And the enclosed space of water and marble and
grass was lighted with a clear, white, radiant light, seven times
stronger than the whitest moonlight, and in the still waters of the
pool seven moons lay reflected. One could see that they were only
reflections by the way their shape broke and changed as the gold
and silver fish rippled the water with moving fin and tail that
steered.

The girls looked up at the sky, almost expecting to see seven
moons there. But no, the old moon shone alone, as she had always
shone on them.

"There are seven moons," said Mabel blankly, and pointed, which
is not manners.

"Of course," said Phoebus kindly; "everything in our world is
seven times as much so as in yours." 

"But there aren't seven of you," said Mabel.

"No, but I am seven times as much," said the Sun-god. "You see,
there's numbers, and there's quantity, to say nothing of quality. You
see that, I'm sure." 

"Not quite," said Kathleen.

"Explanations always weary me," Phoebus interrupted. "Shall we
join the ladies?"

On the further side of the pool was a large group, so white that it
seemed to make a great white hole in the trees. Some twenty or
thirty figures there were in the group all statues and all alive. Some
were dipping their white feet among the gold and silver fish, and
sending ripples across the faces of the seven moons. Some were
pelting each other with roses roses so sweet that the girls could
smell them even across the pool. Others were holding hands and
dancing in a ring, and two were sitting on the steps playing
cat's-cradle which is a very ancient game indeed  with a thread of
white marble.

As the new-comers advanced a shout of greeting and gay laughter
went up. "Late again, Phoebus!" someone called out. And another:
"Did one of your horses cast a shoe?" And yet another called out
something about laurels.

"I bring two guests," said Phoebus, and instantly the statues
crowded round, stroking the girls hair, patting their cheeks, and
calling them the prettiest love-names.

"Are the wreaths ready, Hebe?" the tallest and most splendid of the
ladies called out. "Make two more!" 

And almost directly Hebe came down the steps, her round arms
hung thick with rose-wreaths. There was one for each marble head.

Everyone now looked seven times more beautiful than before,
which, in the case of the gods and goddesses, is saying a good deal.
The children remembered how at the raspberry vinegar feast
Mademoiselle had said that gods and goddesses always wore
wreaths for meals.

Hebe herself arranged the roses on the girls heads  and Aphrodite
Urania, the dearest lady in the world, with a voice like mother's at
those moments when you love her most, took them by the hands
and said: "Come, we must get the feast ready. Eros Psyche Hebe
Ganymede all you young people can arrange the fruit." 

"I don't see any fruit," said Kathleen, as four slender forms
disengaged themselves from the white crowd and came towards
them.

"You will though," said Eros, a really nice boy, as the girls
instantly agreed; "you've only got to pick it." 

"Like this," said Psyche, lifting her marble arms to a willow
branch. She reached out her hand to the children it held a ripe
pomegranate.

"I see," said Mabel. "You just " She laid her fingers to the willow
branch and the firm softness of a big peach was within them.

"Yes, just that," laughed Psyche, who was a darling, as any one
could see.

After this Hebe gathered a few silver baskets from a convenient
alder, and the four picked fruit industriously. Meanwhile the elder
statues were busy plucking golden goblets and jugs and dishes
from the branches of ash-trees and young oaks and filling them
with everything nice to eat and drink that anyone could possibly
want, and these were spread on the steps. It was a celestial picnic.
Then everyone sat or lay down and the feast began. And oh! the
taste of the food served on those dishes, the sweet wonder of the
drink that melted from those gold cups on the white lips of the
company! And the fruit there is no fruit like it grown on earth, just
as there is no laughter like the laughter of those lips, no songs like
the songs that stirred the silence of that night of wonder.

"Oh!" cried Kathleen, and through her fingers the juice of her third
peach fell like tears on the marble steps. "I do wish the boys were
here!" 

"I do wonder what they're doing," said Mabel.

"At this moment," said Hermes, who had just made a wide ring of
flight, as a pigeon does, and come back into the circle  "at this
moment they are wandering desolately near the home of the
dinosaurus, having escaped from their home by a window, in
search of you. They fear that you have perished, and they would
weep if they did not know that tears do not become a man,
however youthful." 

Kathleen stood up and brushed the crumbs of ambrosia from her
marble lap.

"Thank you all very much, she said. "It was very kind of you to
have us, and we've enjoyed ourselves very much, but I think we
ought to go now, please. 

"If it is anxiety about your brothers," said Phoebus obligingly, "it is
the easiest thing in the world for them to join you. Lend me your
ring a moment." 

He took it from Kathleen's half-reluctant hand, dipped it in the
reflection of one of the seven moons, and gave it back. She
clutched it. "Now," said the Sun-god, "wish for them that which
Mabel wished for herself. Say "

"I know," Kathleen interrupted. "I wish that the boys may be
statues of living marble like Mabel and me till dawn, and
afterwards be like they are now." 

"If you hadn't interrupted," said Phoebus "but there, we can't
expect old heads on shoulders of young marble. You should have
wished them here and but no matter. Hermes, old chap, cut across
and fetch them, and explain things as you come." 

He dipped the ring again in one of the reflected moons before he
gave it back to Kathleen.

"There," he said, "now it's washed clean ready for the next magic." 

"It is not our custom to question guests," said Hera the queen,
turning her great eyes on the children; "but that ring excites, I am
sure, the interest of us all." 

"It is the ring," said Phoebus.

"That, of course," said Hera; "but if it were not inhospitable to ask
questions I should ask, How came it into the hands of these
earth-children?"

"That," said Phoebus, "is a long tale. After the feast the story, and
after the story the song." 

Hermes seemed to have "explained everything" quite fully; for
when Gerald and Jimmy in marble whiteness arrived, each
clinging to one of the god's winged feet, and so borne through the
air, they were certainly quite at ease. They made their best bows to
the goddesses and took their places as unembarrassed as though
they had had Olympian suppers every night of their lives. Hebe
had woven wreaths of roses ready for them, and as Kathleen
watched them eating and drinking, perfectly at home in their
marble, she was very glad that amid the welling springs of
immortal peach-juice she had not forgotten her brothers.

"And now," said Hera, when the boys had been supplied with
everything they could possibly desire, and more than they could
eat "now for the story." 

"Yes," said Mabel intensely; and Kathleen said, "Oh yes; now for
the story. How splendid!" 

"The story," said Phoebus unexpectedly, "will be told by our
guests." 

"Oh no!" said Kathleen, shrinking.

"The lads, maybe, are bolder," said Zeus the king, taking off his
rose-wreath, which was a little tight, and rubbing his compressed
ears.

"I really can't," said Gerald; "besides, I don't know any stories." 

"Nor yet me," said Jimmy.

"It's the story of how we got the ring that they want," said Mabel in
a hurry. "I'll tell it if you like, Once upon a time there was a little
girl called Mabel," she added yet more hastily, and went on with
the tale all the tale of the enchanted castle, or almost all, that you
have read in these pages. The marble Olympians listened
enchanted almost as enchanted as the castle itself, and the soft
moonlit moments fell past like pearls dropping into a deep pool.

"And so," Mabel ended abruptly, "Kathleen wished for the boys
and the Lord Hermes fetched them and here we all are." 

A burst of interested comment and question blossomed out round
the end of the story, suddenly broken off short by Mabel.

"But," said she, brushing it aside, as it grew thinner, "now we want
you to tell us." 

"To tell you ?"

"How you come to be alive, and how you know about the ring and
everything you do know." 

"Everything I know?" Phoebus laughed it was to him that she had
spoken and not his lips only but all the white lips curled in
laughter. "The span of your life, my earth-child, would not contain
the words I should speak, to tell you all I know." 

"Well, about the ring anyhow, and how you come alive," said
Gerald; "you see, it's very puzzling to us." 

"Tell them, Phoebus," said the dearest lady in the world; "don't
tease the children." 

So Phoebus, leaning back against a heap of leopard- skins that
Dionysus had lavishly plucked from a spruce fir, told.

"All statues," he said, "can come alive when the moon shines, if
they so choose. But statues that are placed in ugly cities do not
choose. Why should they weary themselves with the contemplation
of the hideous?"

"Quite so," said Gerald politely, to fill the pause.

"In your beautiful temples," the Sun-god went on, "the images of
your priests and of your warriors who lie cross-legged on their
tombs come alive and walk in their marble about their temples,
and through the woods and fields. But only on one night in all the
year can any see them. You have beheld us because you held the
ring, and are of one brotherhood with us in your marble, but on
that one night all may behold us."

"And when is that?" Gerald asked, again polite, in a pause.

"At the festival of the harvest," said Phoebes. "On that night as the
moon rises it strikes one beam of perfect light on to the altar in
certain temples. One of these temples is in Hellas, buried under the
fall of a mountain which Zeus, being angry, hurled down upon it.
One is in this land; it is in this great garden." 

"Then," said Gerald, much interested, "if we were to come up to
that temple on that night, we could see you, even without being
statues or having the ring?"

"Even so," said Phoebus. "More, any question asked by a mortal
we are on that night bound to answer." 

"And the night is when?"

"Ah!" said Phoebus, and laughed. "Wouldn't you like to know!" 

Then the great marble King of the Gods yawned, stroked his long
beard, and said: "Enough of stories, Phoebus. Tune your lyre." 

"But the ring," said Mabel in a whisper, as the Sun-god tuned the
white strings of a sort of marble harp that lay at his feet "about
how you know all about the ring?"

"Presently," the Sun-god whispered back. "Zeus must be obeyed;
but ask me again before dawn, and I will tell you all I know of it."
Mabel drew back, and leaned against the comfortable knees of one
Demeter Kathleen and Psyche sat holding hands. Gerald and
Jimmy lay at full length, chins on elbows, gazing at the Sun-god;
and even as he held the lyre, before ever his fingers began to
sweep the strings, the spirit of music hung in the air, enchanting,
enslaving, silencing all thought but the thought of itself, all desire
but the desire to listen to it.

Then Phoebus struck the strings and softly plucked melody from
them, and all the beautiful dreams of all the world came fluttering
close with wings like doves wings; and all the lovely thoughts that
sometimes hover near, but not so near that you can catch them,
now came home as to their nests in the hearts of those who
listened. And those who listened forgot time and space, and how to
be sad, and how to be naughty, and it seemed that the whole world
lay like a magic apple in the hand of each listener, and that the
whole world was good and beautiful.

And then, suddenly, the spell was shattered. Phoebus struck a
broken chord, followed by an instant of silence; then he sprang up,
crying, "The dawn! the dawn! To your pedestals, O gods!" 

In an instant the whole crowd of beautiful marble people had
leaped to its feet, had rushed through the belt of wood that cracked
and rustled as they went, and the children heard them splash, in the
water beyond. They heard, too, the gurgling breathing of a great
beast, and knew that the dinosaurus, too, was returning to his own
place.

Only Hermes had time, since one flies more swiftly than one
swims, to hover above them for one moment, and to whisper with
a mischievous laugh:

"In fourteen days from now, at the Temple of Strange Stones." 

"What's the secret of the ring?" gasped Mabel.

"The ring is the heart of the magic," said Hermes. "Ask at the
moonrise on the fourteenth day, and you shall know all." 

With that he waved the snowy caduceus and rose in the air
supported by his winged feet. And as he went the seven reflected
moons died out and a chill wind began to blow, a grey light grew
and grew, the birds stirred and twittered, and the marble slipped
away from the children like a skin that shrivels in fire, and they
were statues no more, but flesh and blood children as they used to
be, standing knee-deep in brambles and long coarse grass. There
was no smooth lawn, no marble steps, no seven-mooned fish-pond.
The dew lay thick on the grass and the brambles, and it was very
cold.

"We ought to have gone with them," said Mabel with chattering
teeth. "We can't swim now we re not marble. And I suppose this is
the island?"

It was and they couldn't swim.

They knew it. One always knows those sort of things somehow
without trying. For instance, you know perfectly that you can't fly.
There are some things that there is no mistake about.

The dawn grew brighter and the outlook more black every
moment.

"There isn't a boat, I suppose?" Jimmy asked.

"No," said Mabel, "not on this side of the lake; there's one in the
boat-house, of course if you could swim there." 

"You know I can't," said Jimmy.

"Can't anyone think of anything?" Gerald asked, shivering.

"When they find we've disappeared they'll drag all the water for
miles round, said Jimmy hopefully, "in case we've fallen in and
sunk to the bottom. When they come to drag this we can yell and
be rescued." 

"Yes, dear, that will be nice," was Gerald's bitter comment.

"Don't be so disagreeable," said Mabel with a tone so strangely
cheerful that the rest stared at her in amazement.

"The ring," she said. "Of course we've only got to wish ourselves
home with it. Phoebus washed it in the moon ready for the next
wish. 

"You didn't tell us about that," said Gerald in accents of perfect
good temper. "Never mind. Where is the ring?"

"You had it," Mabel reminded Kathleen.

"I know I had," said that child in stricken tones, "but I gave it to
Psyche to look at and and she's got it on her finger!" 

Everyone tried not to be angry with Kathleen. All partly
succeeded.

"If we ever get off this beastly island," said Gerald,

"I suppose you can find Psyche's statue and get it off again?"

"No I can't," Mabel moaned. "I don't know where the statue is. I've
never seen it. It may be in Hellas, wherever that is or anywhere, for
anything I know." 

No one had anything kind to say, and it is pleasant to record that
nobody said anything. And now it was grey daylight, and the sky to
the north was flushing in pale pink and lavender.

The boys stood moodily, hands in pockets. Mabel and Kathleen
seemed to find it impossible not to cling together, and all about
their legs the long grass was icy with dew.

A faint sniff and a caught breath broke the silence. "Now, look
here," said Gerald briskly, "I won't have it. Do you hear?
Snivelling's no good at all. No, I'm not a pig. It's for your own
good. Let's make a tour of the island. Perhaps there's a boat hidden
somewhere among the overhanging boughs. 

"How could there be?" Mabel asked.

"Someone might have left it there, I suppose," said Gerald.

"But how would they have got off the island?"

"In another boat, of course," said Gerald; "come on."
Downheartedly, and quite sure that there wasn't and couldn't be
any boat, the four children started to explore the island. How often
each one of them had dreamed of islands, how often wished to be
stranded on one! Well, now they were. Reality is sometimes quite
different from dreams, and not half so nice. It was worst of all for
Mabel, whose shoes and stockings were far away on the mainland.
The coarse grass and brambles were very cruel to bare legs and
feet.

They stumbled through the wood to the edge of the water, but it
was impossible to keep close to the edge of the island, the
branches grew too thickly. There was a narrow, grassy path that
wound in and out among the trees, and this they followed, dejected
and mournful. Every moment made it less possible for them to
hope to get back to the school-house unnoticed. And if they were
missed and beds found in their present unslept-in state well, there
would be a row of some sort, and, as Gerald said, "Farewell to
liberty!" 

"Of course we can get off all right," said Gerald. "Just all shout
when we see a gardener or a keeper on the mainland. But if we do,
concealment is at an end and all is absolutely up!" 

"Yes," said everyone gloomily.

"Come, buck up!" said Gerald, the spirit of the born general
beginning to reawaken in him. "We shall get out of this scrape all
right, as we've got out of others; you know we shall. See, the sun's
coming out. You feel all right and jolly now, don't you?"

"Yes, oh yes!" said everyone, in tones of unmixed misery.

The sun was now risen, and through a deep cleft in the hills it sent
a strong shaft of light straight at the island. The yellow light,
almost level, struck through the stems of the trees and dazzled the
children's eyes. This, with the fact that he was not looking where
he was going, as Jimmy did not fail to point out later, was enough
to account for what now happened to Gerald, who was leading the
melancholy little procession. He stumbled, clutched at a tree-trunk,
missed his clutch, and disappeared, with a yell and a clatter; and
Mabel, who came next, only pulled herself up just in time not to
fall down a steep flight of moss-grown steps that seemed to open
suddenly in the ground at her feet.

"Oh, Gerald!" she called down the steps; "are you hurt?"

"No," said Gerald, out of sight and crossly, for he was hurt, rather
severely; "it's steps, and there's a passage." 

"There always is," said Jimmy.

"I knew there was a passage," said Mabel; "it goes under the water
and comes out at the Temple of Flora. Even the gardeners know
that, but they won't go down, for fear of snakes." 

"Then we can get out that way I do think you might have said so,"
Gerald's voice came up to say.

"I didn't think of it," said Mabel. "At least And I suppose it goes
past the place where the Ugly-Wugly found its good hotel." 

"I'm not going," said Kathleen positively, "not in the dark, I'm not.
So I tell you!" 

"Very well, baby," said Gerald sternly, and his head appeared from
below very suddenly through interlacing brambles. "No one asked
you to go in the dark. We'll leave you here if you like, and return
and rescue you with a boat. Jimmy, the bicycle lamp!" He reached
up a hand for it.

Jimmy produced from his bosom, the place where lamps are
always kept in fairy stories see Aladdin and others a bicycle lamp.

"We brought it," he explained, "so as not to break our shins over
bits of long Mabel among the rhododendrons." 

"Now," said Gerald very firmly, striking a match and opening the
thick, rounded glass front of the bicycle lamp, "I don't know what
the rest of you are going to do, but I'm going down these steps and
along this passage. If we find the good hotel well, a good hotel
never hurt anyone yet." 

"It's no good, you know," said Jimmy weakly; "you know jolly well
you can't get out of that Temple of Flora door, even if you get to
it." 

"I don't know," said Gerald, still brisk and commander-like;
"there's a secret spring inside that door most likely. We hadn't a
lamp last time to look for it, remember." 

"If there's one thing I do hate its undergroundness," said Mabel.

"You're not a coward," said Gerald, with what is known as
diplomacy. "You're brave, Mabel. Don't I know it!" You hold
Jimmy's hand and I'll hold Cathy s. Now then." 

"I won't have my hand held," said Jimmy, of course. "I'm not a
kid." 

"Well, Cathy will. Poor little Cathy! Nice brother Jerry'll hold poor
Cathy's hand." 

Gerald's bitter sarcasm missed fire here, for Cathy gratefully
caught the hand he held out in mockery. She was too miserable to
read his mood, as she mostly did. "Oh, thank you, Jerry dear," she
said gratefully; "you are a dear, and I will try not to be frightened."
And for quite a minute Gerald shamedly felt that he had not been
quite, quite kind.

So now, leaving the growing goldness of the sunrise, the four went
down the stone steps that led to the underground and underwater
passage, and everything seemed to grow dark and then to grow into
a poor pretence of light again, as the splendour of dawn gave place
to the small dogged lighting of the bicycle lamp. The steps did
indeed lead to a passage, the beginnings of it choked with the
drifted dead leaves of many old autumns. But presently the passage
took a turn, there were more steps, down, down, and then the
passage was empty and straight lined above and below and on each
side with slabs of marble, very clear and clean. Gerald held Cathy's
hand with more of kindness and less of exasperation than he had
supposed possible.

And Cathy, on her part, was surprised to find it possible to be so
much less frightened than she expected.

The flame of the bull's-eye threw ahead a soft circle of misty light 
the children followed it silently. Till, silently and suddenly, the
light of the bull's-eye behaved as the flame of a candle does when
you take it out into the sunlight to light a bonfire, or explode a
train of gunpowder, or what not. Because now, with feelings
mixed indeed, of wonder, and interest, and awe, but no fear, the
children found themselves in a great hail, whose arched roof was
held up by two rows of round pillars, and whose every corner was
filled with a soft, searching, lovely light, filling every cranny, as
water fills the rocky secrecies of hidden sea-caves.

"How beautiful!" Kathleen whispered, breathing hard into the
tickled ear of her brother, and Mabel caught the hand of Jimmy
and whispered, "I must hold your hand I must hold on to
something silly, or I shan't believe it's real." 

For this hall in which the children found themselves was the most
beautiful place in the world. I won't describe it, because it does not
look the same to any two people, and you wouldn't understand me
if I tried to tell you how it looked to any one of these four. But to
each it seemed the most perfect thing possible. I will only say that
all round it were great arches. Kathleen saw them as Moorish,
Mabel as Tudor, Gerald as Norman, and Jimmy as Churchwarden
Gothic. (If you don't know what these are, ask your uncle who
collects brasses, and he will explain, or perhaps Mr. Millar will
draw the different kinds of arches for you.) And through these
arches one could see many things oh! but many things. Through
one appeared an olive garden, and in it two lovers who held each
other's hands, under an Italian moon; through another a wild sea,
and a ship to whom the wild, racing sea was slave. A third showed
a king on his throne, his courtiers obsequious about him; and yet a
fourth showed a really good hotel, with the respectable
Ugly-Wugly sunning himself on the front doorsteps. There was a
mother, bending over a wooden cradle. There was an artist gazing
entranced on the picture his wet brush seemed to have that
moment completed, a general dying on a field where Victory had
planted the standard he loved, and these things were not pictures,
but the truest truths, alive, and, as anyone could see, immortal.

Many other pictures there were that these arches framed. And all
showed some moment when life had sprung to fire and flower the
best that the soul of man could ask or man's destiny grant. And the
really good hotel had its place here too, because there are some
souls that ask no higher thing of life than "a really good hotel" .

"Oh, I am glad we came; I am, I am!" Kathleen murmured, and
held fast to her brother's hand.

They went slowly up the hall, the ineffectual bull's-eye, held by
Jimmy, very crooked indeed, showing almost as a shadow in this
big, glorious light.

And then, when the hall's end was almost reached, the children
saw where the light came from. It glowed and spread itself from
one place, and in that place stood the one statue that Mabel "did
not know where to find" the statue of Psyche. They went on,
slowly, quite happy, quite bewildered. And when they came close
to Psyche they saw that on her raised hand the ring showed dark.

Gerald let go Kathleen's hand, put his foot on the pediment, his
knee on the pedestal. He stood up, dark and human, beside the
white girl with the butterfly wings.

"I do hope you don't mind," he said, and drew the ring off very
gently. Then, as he dropped to the ground, "Not here," he said. "I
don't know why, but not here."

And they all passed behind the white Psyche, and once more the
bicycle lamp seemed suddenly to come to life again as Gerald held
it in front of him, to be the pioneer in the dark passage that led
from the Hall of but they did not know, then, what it was the Hall
of.

Then, as the twisting passage shut in on them with a darkness that
pressed close against the little light of the bicycle lamp, Kathleen
said, "Give me the ring. I know exactly what to say." 

Gerald gave it with not extreme readiness.

"I wish," said Kathleen slowly, "that no one at home may know
that we've been out tonight, and I wish we were safe in our own
beds, undressed, and in our nightgowns, and asleep." 

And the next thing any of them knew, it was good, strong, ordinary
daylight not just sunrise, but the kind of daylight you are used to
being called in, and all were in their own beds. Kathleen had
framed the wish most sensibly. The only mistake had been in
saying "in our own beds" because, of course, Mabel's own bed was
at Yalding Towers, and to this day Mabel's drab-haired aunt cannot
understand how Mabel, who was staying the night with that child
in the town she was so taken up with, hadn't come home at eleven,
when the aunt locked up, and yet she was in her bed in the
morning. For though not a clever woman, she was not stupid
enough to be able to believe any one of the eleven fancy
explanations which the distracted Mabel offered in the course of
the morning. The first (which makes twelve) of these explanations
was The Truth, and of course the aunt was far too clever to believe
That!

It was show-day at Yalding Castle, and it seemed good to the
children to go and visit Mabel, and, as Gerald put it, to mingle
unsuspected with the crowd; to gloat over all the things which they
knew and which the crowd didn't know about the castle and the
sliding panels, the magic ring and the statues that came alive.
Perhaps one of the pleasantest things about magic happenings is
the feeling which they give you of knowing what other people not
only don't know but wouldn't, so to speak, believe if they did.

On the white road outside the gates of the castle was a dark
spattering of breaks and wagonettes and dogcarts. Three or four
waiting motor-cars puffed fatly where they stood, and bicycles
sprawled in heaps along the grassy hollow by the red brick wall.
And the people who had been brought to the castle by the breaks
and wagonettes, and dog-carts and bicycles and motors, as well as
those who had walked there on their own unaided feet, were
scattered about the grounds, or being shown over those parts of the
castle which were, on this one day of the week, thrown open to
visitors.

There were more visitors than usual today because it had somehow
been whispered about that Lord Yalding was down, and that the
holland covers were to be taken off the state furniture so that a rich
American who wished to rent the castle, to live in, might see the
place in all its glory.

It certainly did look very splendid. The embroidered satin, gilded
leather and tapestry of the chairs, which had been hidden by brown
holland, gave to the rooms a pleasant air of being lived in. There
were flowering plants and pots of roses here and there on tables or
window-ledges. Mabel's aunt prided herself on her tasteful touch
in the home, and had studied the arrangement of flowers in a series
of articles in Home Drivel called "How to Make Home High-class
on Nine-pence a Week".

The great crystal chandeliers, released from the bags that at
ordinary times shrouded them, gleamed with grey and purple
splendour. The brown linen sheets had been taken off the state
beds, and the red ropes that usually kept the low crowd in its
proper place had been rolled up and hidden away.

"It's exactly as if we were calling on the family," said the grocer's
daughter from Salisbury to her friend who was in the millinery.

"If the Yankee doesn't take it, what do you say to you and me
setting up here when we get spliced?" the draper's assistant asked
his sweetheart. And she said: "Oh, Reggie, how can you! you are
too funny." 

All the afternoon the crowd in its smart holiday clothes, pink
blouses, and light-coloured suits, flowery hats, and scarves beyond
description passed through and through the dark hall, the
magnificent drawing-rooms and boudoirs and picture-galleries.
The chattering crowd was awed into something like quiet by the
calm, stately bedchambers, where men had been born, and died;
where royal guests had lain in long-ago summer nights, with big
bow-pots of elder-flowers set on the hearth to ward off fever and
evil spells. The terrace, where in old days dames in ruffs had
sniffed the sweet-brier and southern-wood of the borders below,
and ladies, bright with rouge and powder and brocade, had walked
in the swing of their hooped skirts the terrace now echoed to the
sound of brown boots, and the tap-tap of high-heeled shoes at two
and eleven three, and high laughter and chattering voices that said
nothing that the children wanted to hear. These spoiled for them
the quiet of the enchanted castle, and outraged the peace of the
garden of enchantments.

"It isn't such a lark after all," Gerald admitted, as from the window
of the stone summer-house at the end of the terrace they watched
the loud colours and heard the loud laughter. "I do hate to see all
these people in our garden." 

"I said that to that nice bailiff-man this morning," said Mabel,
setting herself on the stone floor, "and he said it wasn't much to let
them come once a week. He said Lord Yalding ought to let them
come when they liked said he would if he lived there." 

"That's all he knows!" said Jimmy. "Did he say anything else?"

"Lots," said Mabel. "I do like him! I told him ,"

"You didn't!" 

"Yes. I told him lots about our adventures. The humble bailiff is a
beautiful listener." 

"We shall be locked up for beautiful lunatics if you let your jaw
get the better of you, my Mabel child." 

"Not us!" said Mabel. "I told it you know the way every word true,
and yet so that nobody believes any of it. When I'd quite done he
said I'd got a real littery talent, and I promised to put his name on
the beginning of the first book I write when I grow up." 

"You don't know his name," said Kathleen. "Let's do something
with the ring." 

"Imposs!" said Gerald. "I forgot to tell you, but I met
Mademoiselle when I went back for my garters and she's coming
to meet us and walk back with us." 

"What did you say?"

"I said," said Gerald deliberately, "that it was very kind of her. And
so it was. Us not wanting her doesn't make it not kind her coming "

"It may be kind, but it's sickening too," said Mabel, "because now I
suppose we shall have to stick here and wait for her; and I
promised we d meet the bailiff-man. He's going to bring things in a
basket and have a picnic-tea with us."

"Where?"

"Beyond the dinosaurus. He said he'd tell me all about the
anteddy-something animals it means before Noah's Ark; there are
lots besides the dinosaurus in return for me telling him my
agreeable fictions. Yes, he called them that." 

"When?"

"As soon as the gates shut. That's five." 

"We might take Mademoiselle along," suggested Gerald.

"She d be too proud to have tea with a bailiff, I expect; you never
know how grown-ups will take the simplest things." It was
Kathleen who said this.

"Well, I'll tell you what," said Gerald, lazily turning on the stone
bench. "You all go along, and meet your bailiff. A picnic's a
picnic. And I'll wait for Mademoiselle." 

Mabel remarked joyously that this was jolly decent of Gerald, to
which he modestly replied: "Oh, rot!" 

Jimmy added that Gerald rather liked sucking-up to people.

"Little boys don't understand diplomacy," said Gerald calmly;
"sucking-up is simply silly. But it's better to be good than pretty
and ,"

"How do you know?" Jimmy asked.

"And," his brother went on, "you never know when a grown-up
may come in useful. Besides, they like it. You must give them
some little pleasures. Think how awful it must be to be old. My
hat!" 

"I hope I shan't be an old maid," said Kathleen.

"I don't mean to be," said Mabel briskly. "I'd rather marry a
travelling tinker." 

"It would be rather nice," Kathleen mused, "to marry the Gypsy
King and go about in a caravan telling fortunes and hung round
with baskets and brooms." 

"Oh, if I could choose," said Mabel, "of course I'd marry a brigand,
and live in his mountain fastnesses, and be kind to his captives and
help them to escape and ,"

"You'll be a real treasure to your husband," said Gerald.

"Yes," said Kathleen, "or a sailor would be nice. You'd watch for
his ship coming home and set the lamp in the dormer window to
light him home through the storm; and when he was drowned at
sea you d be most frightfully sorry, and go every day to lay flowers
on his daisied grave." 

"Yes," Mabel hastened to say, "or a soldier, and then you'd go to
the wars with short petticoats and a cocked hat and a barrel round
your neck like a St. Bernard dog. There's a picture of a soldier's
wife on a song auntie's got. It's called 'The Veevandyear'." 

"When I marry " Kathleen quickly said.

"When I marry," said Gerald, "I'll marry a dumb girl, or else get the
ring to make her so that she can't speak unless she's spoken to.
Let's have a squint. 

He applied his eye to the stone lattice.

"They're moving off," he said. "Those pink and purple hats are
nodding off in the distant prospect; and the funny little man with
the beard like a goat is going a different way from everyone else 
the gardeners will have to head him off. I don't see Mademoiselle,
though. The rest of you had better bunk. It doesn't do to run any
risks with picnics. The deserted hero of our tale, alone and
unsupported, urged on his brave followers to pursue the
commissariat waggons, he himself remaining at the post of danger
and difficulty, because he was born to stand on burning decks
whence all but he had fled, and to lead forlorn hopes when
despaired of by the human race!"

"I think I'll marry a dumb husband," said Mabel, "and there shan't
be any heroes in my books when I write them, only a heroine.
Come on, Cathy."

Coming out of that cool, shadowy summer-house into the sunshine
was like stepping into an oven, and the stone of the terrace was
burning to the children's feet.

"I know now what a cat on hot bricks feels like," said Jimmy.

The antediluvian animals are set in a beech-wood on a slope at
least half a mile across the park from the castle. The grandfather of
the present Lord Yalding had them set there in the middle of last
century, in the great days of the late Prince Consort, the Exhibition
of 1851, Sir Joseph Paxton, and the Crystal Palace. Their stone
flanks, their wide, ungainly wings, their lozenged crocodile-like
backs show grey through the trees a long way off.

Most people think that noon is the hottest time of the day. They are
wrong. A cloudless sky gets hotter and hotter all the afternoon, and
reaches its very hottest at five. I am sure you must all have noticed
this when you are going out to tea anywhere in your best clothes,
especially if your clothes are starched and you happen to have a
rather long and shadeless walk.

Kathleen, Mabel, and Jimmy got hotter and hotter, and went more
and more slowly. They had almost reached that stage of
resentment and discomfort when one "wishes one hadn't come"
before they saw, below the edge of the beech-wood, the white
waved handkerchief of the bailiff.

That banner, eloquent of tea, shade, and being able to sit down, put
new heart into them. They mended their pace, and a final
desperate run landed them among the drifted coppery leaves and
bare grey and green roots of the beech-wood.

"Oh, glory!" said Jimmy, throwing himself down. "How do you
do?"

The bailiff looked very nice, the girls thought. He was not wearing
his velveteens, but a grey flannel suit that an Earl need not have
scorned; and his straw hat would have done no discredit to a Duke;
and a Prince could not have worn a prettier green tie. He
welcomed the children warmly. And there were two baskets
dumped heavy and promising among the beech-leaves.

He was a man of tact. The hot, instructive tour of the stone
antediluvians, which had loomed with ever-lessening charm before
the children, was not even mentioned.

"You must be desert-dry," he said, "and you'll be hungry, too, when
you've done being thirsty. I put on the kettle as soon as I discerned
the form of my fair romancer in the extreme offing." 

The kettle introduced itself with puffings and bubblings from the
hollow between two grey roots where it sat on a spirit-lamp.

"Take off your shoes and stockings, won't you?" said the bailiff in
matter-of-course tones, just as old ladies ask each other to take off
their bonnets; "there's a little baby canal just over the ridge." 

The joys of dipping one's feet in cool running water after a hot
walk have yet to be described. I could write pages about them.
There was a mill-stream when I was young with little fishes in it,
and dropped leaves that spun round, and willows and alders that
leaned over it and kept it cool, and but this is not the story of my
life.

When they came back, on rested, damp, pink feet, tea was made
and poured ouy delicious tea with as much milk as ever you
wanted, out of a beer bottle with a screw top, and cakes, and
gingerbread, and plums, and a big melon with a lump of ice in its
heart a tea for the gods!

This thought must have come to Jimmy, for he said suddenly,
removing his face from inside a wide-bitten crescent of
melon-rind:

"Your feast's as good as the feast of the Immortals, almost." 

"Explain your recondite allusion," said the grey-flannelled host;
and Jimmy, understanding him to say, "What do you mean?"
replied with the whole tale of that wonderful night when the
statues came alive, and a banquet of unearthly splendour and
deliciousness was plucked by marble hands from the trees of the
lake island.

When he had done the bailiff said: "Did you get all this out of a
book?"

"No," said Jimmy, "it happened."

"You are an imaginative set of young dreamers,. aren't you?" the
bailiff asked, handing the plums to Kathleen, who smiled, friendly
but embarrassed. Why couldn't Jimmy have held his tongue?

"No, we re not," said that indiscreet one obstinately; "everything
I've told you did happen, and so did the things Mabel told you." 

The bailiff looked a little uncomfortable. "All right, old chap," he
said. And there was a short, uneasy silence. "Look here," said
Jimmy, who seemed for once to have got the bit between his teeth,
"do you believe me or not?"

"Don't be silly, Jimmy!" Kathleen whispered. "Because, if you
don't I'll make you believe." 

"Don't!" said Mabel and Kathleen together.

"Do you or don't you?" Jimmy insisted, lying on his front with his
chin on his hands, his elbows on a moss-cushion, and his bare legs
kicking among the beech leaves.

"I think you tell adventures awfully well," said the bailiff
cautiously.

"Very well," said Jimmy, abruptly sitting up, "you don't believe
me. Nonsense, Cathy! he's a gentleman, even if he is a bailiff."

"Thank you!" said the bailiff with eyes that twinkled.

"You won't tell, will you?" Jimmy urged.

"Tell what?"

"Anything."

"Certainly not. I am, as you say, the soul of honour." 

"Then Cathy, give me the ring." 

"Oh, no!" said the girls together.

Kathleen did not mean to give up the ring; Mabel did not mean
that she should; Jimmy certainly used no force. Yet presently he
held it in his hand. It was his hour. There are times like that for all
of us, when what we say shall be done is done.

"Now," said Jimmy, "this is the ring Mabel told you about. I say it
is a wishing-ring. And if you will put it on your hand and wish,
whatever you wish will happen."

"Must I wish out loud?"

"Yes I think so." 

"Don't wish for anything silly," said Kathleen, making the best of
the situation, "like its being fine on Tuesday or its being your
favourite pudding for dinner tomorrow. Wish for something you
really want." 

"I will," said the bailiff. "I'll wish for the only thing I really want. I
wish my I wish my friend were here." 

The three who knew the power of the ring looked round to see the
bailiff's friend appear; a surprised man that friend would be, they
thought, and perhaps a frightened one. They had all risen, and
stood ready to soothe and reassure the newcomer. But no startled
gentleman appeared in the wood, only, coming quietly through the
dappled sun and shadow under the beech-trees, Mademoiselle and
Gerald, Mademoiselle in a white gown, looking quite nice and like
a picture, Gerald hot and polite.

"Good afternoon," said that dauntless leader of forlorn hopes. "I
persuaded Mademoiselle "

That sentence was never finished, for the bailiff and the French
governess were looking at each other with the eyes of tired
travellers who find, quite without expecting it, the desired end of a
very long journey.

And the children saw that even if they spoke it would not make
any difference.

"You!" said the bailiff.

"Mais . . . c'est donc vous," said Mademoiselle, in a funny choky
voice.

And they stood still and looked at each other, "like stuck pigs" , as
Jimmy said later, for quite a long time.

"Is she your friend?" Jimmy asked.

"Yes oh yes," said the bailiff. "You are my friend, are you not?"

"But yes," Mademoiselle said softly. "I am your friend." 

"There! you see," said Jimmy, "the ring does do what I said." 

"We won't quarrel about that," said the bailiff. "You can say it's the
ring. For me it's a coincidence the happiest, the dearest ,"

"Then you ?" said the French governess.

"Of course," said the bailiff. "Jimmy, give your brother some tea.
Mademoiselle, come and walk in the woods: there are a thousand
things to say." 

"Eat then, my Gerald," said Mademoiselle, now grown young, and
astonishingly like a fairy princess. "I return all at the hour, and we
re-enter together. It is that we must speak each other. It is long
time that we have not seen us, me and Lord Yalding!" 

"So he was Lord Yalding all the time," said Jimmy, breaking a
stupefied silence as the white gown and the grey flannels
disappeared among the beech trunks. "Landscape painter sort of
dodge silly, I call it. And fancy her being a friend of his, and his
wishing she was here! Different from us, eh? Good old ring!" 

"His friend!" said Mabel with strong scorn; "Don't you see she's his
lover? Don't you see she's the lady that was bricked up in the
convent, because he was so poor, and he couldn't find her. And
now the ring's made them live happy ever after. I am glad! Aren't
you, Cathy?"

"Rather!" said Kathleen; "it's as good as marrying a sailor or a
bandit."

"It's the ring did it," said Jimmy. "If the American takes the house
he'll pay lots of rent, and they can live on that."

"I wonder if they'll be married tomorrow!" said Mabel.

"Wouldn't if be fun if we were bridesmaids," said Cathy.

"May I trouble you for the melon," said Gerald. "Thanks! Why
didn't we know he was Lord Yalding? Apes and moles that we
were!" 

"I've known since last night," said Mabel calmly; "only I promised
not to tell. I can keep a secret, can't I?"

"Too jolly well," said Kathleen, a little aggrieved.

"He was disguised as a bailiff," said Jimmy; "that's why we didn't
know." 

"Disguised as a fiddle-stick-end," said Gerald. "Ha, ha! I see
something old Sherlock Holmes never saw, nor that idiot Watson,
either. If you want a really impenetrable disguise, you ought to
disguise yourself as what you really are. I'll remember that." 

"It's like Mabel, telling things so that you can't believe them," said
Cathy.

"I think Mademoiselle's jolly lucky," said Mabel.

"She's not so bad. He might have done worse," said Gerald.
"Plums, please!" 

There was quite plainly magic at work. Mademoiselle next
morning was a changed governess. Her cheeks were pink, her lips
were red, her eyes were larger and brighter, and she had done her
hair in an entirely new way, rather frivolous and very becoming.

"Mamselle's coming out!" Eliza remarked.

Immediately after breakfast Lord Yalding called with a wagonette
that wore a smart blue cloth coat, and was drawn by two horses
whose coats were brown and shining and fitted them even better
than the blue cloth coat fitted the wagonette, and the whole party
drove in state and splendour to Yalding Towers.

Arrived there, the children clamoured for permission

to explore the castle thoroughly, a thing that had never yet been
possible. Lord Yalding, a little absent in manner, but yet quite
cordial, consented. Mabel showed the others all the secret doors
and unlikely passages and stairs that she had discovered. It was a
glorious morning. Lord Yalding and Mademoiselle went through
the house, it is true, but in a rather half-hearted way. Quite soon
they were tired, and went out through the French windows of the
drawing-room and through the rose garden, to sit on the curved
stone seat in the middle of the maze, where once, at the beginning
of things, Gerald, Kathleen, and Jimmy had found the sleeping
Princess who wore pink silk and diamonds.

The children felt that their going left to the castle a more spacious
freedom, and explored with more than Arctic enthusiasm. It was as
they emerged from the little rickety secret staircase that led from
the powdering-room of the state suite to the gallery of the hall that
they came suddenly face to face with the odd little man who had a
beard like a goat and had taken the wrong turning yesterday.

"This part of the castle is private," said Mabel, with great presence
of mind, and shut the door behind her.

"I am aware of it," said the goat-faced stranger, "but I have the
permission of the Earl of Yalding to examine the house at my
leisure." 

"Oh!" said Mabel. "I beg your pardon. We all do. We didn't know." 

"You are relatives of his lordship, I should surmise?" asked the
goat-faced.

"Not exactly," said Gerald. "Friends". 

The gentleman was thin and very neatly dressed; he had small,
merry eyes and a face that was brown and dry-looking.

"You are playing some game, I should suppose?"

"No, sir," said Gerald, "only exploring." 

"May a stranger propose himself as a member of your Exploring
Expedition?" asked the gentleman, smiling a tight but kind smile.

The children looked at each other.

"You see," said Gerald, "it's rather difficult to explain  but you see
what I mean, don't you?"

"He means," said Jimmy, "that we can't take you into an exploring
party without we know what you want to go for." 

"Are you a photographer?" asked Mabel, "or is it some newspaper's
sent you to write about the Towers?"

"I understand your position," said the gentleman. "I am not a
photographer, nor am I engaged by any journal. I am a man of
independent means, travelling in this country with the intention of
renting a residence. My name is Jefferson D. Conway."

"Oh!" said Mabel; "then you're the American millionaire." 

"I do not like the description, young lady," said Mr. Jefferson D.
Conway. "I am an American citizen, and I am not without means.
This is a fine property a very fine property. If it were for sale ,"

"It isn't, it can't be," Mabel hastened to explain. "The lawyers have
put it in a tale, so Lord Yalding can't sell it. But you could take it
to live in, and pay Lord Yalding a good millionairish rent, and then
he could marry the French governess "

"Shish!" said Kathleen and Mr. Jefferson D. Conway together, and
he added: "Lead the way, please; and I should suggest that the
exploration be complete and exhaustive." 

Thus encouraged, Mabel led the millionaire through all the castle.
He seemed pleased, yet disappointed too.

"It is a fine mansion," he said at last when they had come back to
the point from which they had started; "but I should suppose, in a
house this size, there would mostly be a secret stairway, or a
priests hiding place, or a ghost?"

"There are," said Mabel briefly, "but I thought Americans didn't
believe in anything but machinery and newspapers." She touched
the spring of the panel behind her, and displayed the little tottery
staircase to the American. The sight of it worked a wonderful
transformation in him. He became eager, alert, very keen.

"Say!" he cried, over and over again, standing in the door that led
from the powdering-room to the state bed-chamber. "But this is
great great!" 

The hopes of everyone ran high. It seemed almost certain that the
castle would be let for a millionairish rent and Lord Yalding be
made affluent to the point of marriage.

"If there were a ghost located in this ancestral pile, I'd close with
the Earl of Yalding today, now, on the nail," Mr. Jefferson D.
Conway went on.

"If you were to stay till tomorrow, and sleep in this room, I expect
you'd see the ghost," said Mabel.

"There is a ghost located here then?" he said joyously.

"They say," Mabel answered, "that old Sir Rupert, who lost his
head in Henry the Eighth's time, walks of a night here, with his
head under his arm. But we've not seen that. What we have seen is
the lady in a pink dress with diamonds in her hair. She carries a
lighted taper," Mabel hastily added. The others, now suddenly
aware of Mabel's plan, hastened to assure the American in accents
of earnest truth that they had all seen the lady with the pink gown.

He looked at them with half-closed eyes that twinkled.

"Well," he said, "I calculate to ask the Earl of Yalding to permit
me to pass a night in his ancestral best bed- chamber. And if I hear
so much as a phantom footstep, or hear so much as a ghostly sigh,
I'll take the place." 

"I am glad!" said Cathy.

"You appear to be very certain of your ghost," said the American,
still fixing them with little eyes that shone. "Let me tell you, young
gentlemen, that I carry a gun, and when I see a ghost, I shoot." 

He pulled a pistol out of his hip-pocket, and looked at it lovingly.

"And I am a fair average shot," he went on, walking across the
shiny floor of the state bed-chamber to the open window. "See that
big red rose, like a tea-saucer?"

They saw.

The next moment a loud report broke the stillness, and the red
petals of the shattered rose strewed balustrade and terrace.

The American looked from one child to another. Every face was
perfectly white.

"Jefferson D. Conway made his little pile by strict attention to
business, and keeping his eyes skinned," he added. "Thank you for
all your kindness."

"Suppose you'd done it, and he'd shot you!" said Jimmy cheerfully.
"That would have been an adventure, wouldn't it?"

"I'm going to do it still," said Mabel, pale and defiant. "Let's find
Lord Yalding and get the ring back." 

Lord Yalding had had an interview with Mabel's aunt, and lunch
for six was laid in the great dark hall, among the armour and the
oak furniture a beautiful lunch served on silver dishes.
Mademoiselle, becoming every moment younger and more like a
Princess, was moved to tears when Gerald rose, lemonade-glass in
hand, and proposed the health of "Lord and Lady Yalding".

When Lord Yalding had returned thanks in a speech full of
agreeable jokes the moment seemed to Gerald propitious, and he
said:

"The ring, you know you don't believe in it, but we do. May we
have it back?"

And got it.

Then, after a hasty council, held in the panelled jewel-room,
Mabel said: "This is a wishing-ring, and I wish all the American's
weapons of all sorts were here." 

Instantly the room was full six feet up the wall of a tangle and
mass of weapons, swords, spears, arrows, tomahawks, fowling
pieces, blunderbusses, pistols, revolvers, scimitars, kreeses every
kind of weapon you can think of and the four children wedged in
among all these weapons of death hardly dared to breathe.

"He collects arms, I expect," said Gerald, "and the arrows are
poisoned, I shouldn't wonder. Wish them back where they came
from, Mabel, for goodness sake, and try again." 

Mabel wished the weapons away, and at once the four children
stood safe in a bare panelled room. But 

"No,", Mabel said, "I can't stand it. We'll work the ghost another
way. I wish the American may think he sees a ghost when he goes
to bed. Sir Rupert with his head under his arm will do." 

"Is it tonight he sleeps there?"

"I don't know. I wish he may see Sir Rupert every night that'll
make it all serene." 

"It's rather dull," said Gerald; "we shan't know whether he's seen
Sir Rupert or not." 

"We shall know in the morning, when he takes the house." 

This being settled, Mabel's aunt was found to be desirous of
Mabel's company, so the others went home.

It was when they were at supper that Lord Yalding suddenly
appeared, and said: "Mr. Jefferson Conway wants you boys to
spend the night with him in the state chamber. I've had beds put
up. You don't mind, do you? He seems to think you've got some
idea of playing ghost-tricks on him." 

It was difficult to refuse, so difficult that it proved impossible.

Ten o clock found the boys each in a narrow white bed that looked
quite absurdly small in that high, dark chamber, and in face of that
tall gaunt four-poster hung with tapestry and ornamented with
funereal-looking plumes.

"I hope to goodness there isn't a real ghost," Jimmy whispered.

"Not likely," Gerald whispered back.

"But I don't want to see Sir Rupert's ghost with its head under its
arm," Jimmy insisted.

"You won't. The most you'll see'll be the millionaire seeing it.
Mabel said he was to see it, not us. Very likely you'll sleep all
night and not see anything. Shut your eyes and count up to a
million and don't be a goat!" 

As soon as Mabel had learned from her drab-haired aunt that this
was indeed the night when Mr. Jefferson D. Conway would sleep
at the castle she had hastened to add a wish, "that Sir Rupert and
his head may appear tonight in the state bedroom."

Jimmy shut his eyes and began to count a million. Before he had
counted it he fell asleep. So did his brother.

They were awakened by the loud echoing bang of a pistol shot.
Each thought of the shot that had been fired that morning, and
opened eyes that expected to see a sunshiny terrace and red-rose
petals strewn upon warm white stone.

Instead, there was the dark, lofty state chamber, lighted but little
by six tall candles; there was the American in shirt and trousers, a
smoking pistol in his hand; and there, advancing from the door of
the powdering-room, a figure in doublet and hose, a ruff round its
neck and no head! The head, sure enough, was there; but it was
under the right arm, held close in the slashed-velvet sleeve of the
doublet. The face looking from under the arm wore a pleasant
smile. Both boys, I am sorry to say, screamed. The American fired
again. The bullet passed through Sir Rupert, who advanced
without appearing to notice it.

Then, suddenly, the lights went out. The next thing the boys knew
it was morning. A grey daylight shone blankly through the tall
windows and wild rain was beating upon the glass, and the
American was gone.

"Where are we?" said Jimmy, sitting up with tangled hair and
looking round him. "Oh, I remember. Ugh! it was horrid. I'm about
fed up with that ring, so 1 don't mind telling you." 

"Nonsense!" said Gerald. "I enjoyed it. I wasn't a bit frightened,
were you?"

"No," said Jimmy, "of course I wasn't. 

"We've done the trick," said Gerald later when they learned that
the American had breakfasted early with Lord Yalding and taken
the first train to London; "he's gone to get rid of his other house,
and take this one. The old ring's beginning to do really useful
things." 

"Perhaps you'll believe in the ring now," said Jimmy to Lord
Yalding, whom he met later on in the picture-gallery; "it's all our
doing that Mr. Jefferson saw the ghost. He told us he'd take the
house if he saw a ghost, so of course we took care he did see one."

"Oh, you did, did you?" said Lord Yalding in rather an odd voice.
"I'm very much obliged, I'm sure." 

"Don't mention it," said Jimmy kindly. "I thought you'd be pleased
and him too." 

"Perhaps you'll be interested to learn," said Lord Yalding, putting
his hands in his pockets and staring down at Jimmy, "that Mr.
Jefferson D. Conway was so pleased with your ghost that he got
me out of bed at six o clock this morning to talk about it." 

"Oh, ripping!" said Jimmy. "What did he say?"

"He said, as far as I can remember," said Lord Yalding, still in the
same strange voice "he said: "My lord, your ancestral pile is Al. It
is, in fact, The Limit. Its luxury is palatial, its grounds are nothing
short of Edenesque. No expense has been spared, I should surmise.
Your ancestors were whole-hoggers. They have done the thing as it
should be done every detail attended to. I like your tapestry, and I
like your oak, and I like your secret stairs. But I think your
ancestors should have left well enough alone, and stopped at that."
So I said they had, as far as I knew, and he shook his head and
said:

"No, Sir. Your ancestors take the air of a night with their heads
under their arms. A ghost that sighed or glided or rustled I could
have stood, and thanked you for it, and considered it in the rent.
But a ghost that bullets go through while it stands grinning with a
bare neck and its head loose under its own arm and little boys
screaming and fainting in their beds no! What I say is, If this is a
British hereditary high-toned family ghost, excuse me!" And he
went off by the early train. 

"I say," the stricken Jimmy remarked, "I am sorry, and I don't think
we did faint, really I don't but we thought it would be just what you
wanted. And perhaps someone else will take the house." 

"I don't know anyone else rich enough," said Lord Yalding. "Mr.
Conway came the day before he said he would, or you'd never have
got hold of him. And I don't know how you did it, and I don't want
to know. It was a rather silly trick." 

There was a gloomy pause. The rain beat against the long
windows.

"I say" Jimmy looked up at Lord Yalding with the light of a new
idea in his round face "I say, if you're hard up, why don't you sell
your jewels?"

"I haven't any jewels, you meddlesome young duffer," said Lord
Yalding quite crossly; and taking his hands out of his pockets, he
began to walk away.

"I mean the ones in the panelled room with the stars in the
ceiling," Jimmy insisted, following him.

"There aren't any," said Lord Yalding shortly; "and if this is some
more ring-nonsense I advise you to be careful, young man. I've had
about as much as I care for."

"It's not ring-nonsense, said Jimmy: "there are shelves and shelves
of beautiful family jewels. You can sell them and ,"

"Oh, no!" cried Mademoiselle, appearing like an oleograph of a
duchess in the door of the picture-gallery; "don't sell the family
jewels "

"There aren't any, my lady," said Lord Yalding, going towards her.
"I thought you were never coming." 

"Oh, aren't there!" said Mabel, who had followed Mademoiselle.
"You just come and see," 

"Let us see what they will to show us," cried Mademoiselle, for
Lord Yalding did not move; "it should at least be amusing." 

"It is," said Jimmy.

So they went, Mabel and Jimmy leading, while Mademoiselle and
Lord Yalding followed, hand in hand.

"It's much safer to walk hand in hand," said Lord Yalding; "with
these children at large one never knows what may happen next." 

It would be interesting, no doubt, to describe the feelings of Lord
Yalding as he followed Mabel and Jimmy through his ancestral
halls, but I have no means of knowing at all what he felt. Yet one
must suppose that he felt something: bewilderment, perhaps,
mixed with a faint wonder, and a desire to pinch himself to see if
he were dreaming. Or he may have pondered the rival questions,
"Am I mad? Are they mad?" without being at all able to decide
which he ought to try to answer, let alone deciding what, in either
case, the answer ought to be. You see, the children did seem to
believe in the odd stories they told and the wish had come true,
and the ghost had appeared. He must have thought but all this is
vain; I don't really know what he thought any more than you do.

Nor can I give you any clew to the thoughts and feelings of
Mademoiselle. I only know that she was very happy, but anyone
would have known that if they had seen her face. Perhaps this is as
good a moment as any to explain that when her guardian had put
her in a convent so that she should not sacrifice her fortune by
marrying a poor lord, her guardian had secured that fortune (to
himself) by going off with it to South America. Then, having no
money left, Mademoiselle

had to work for it. So she went out as governess, and took the
situation she did take because it was near Lord Yalding's home.
She wanted to see him, even though she thought he had forsaken
her and did not love her any more. And now she had seen him. I
dare say she thought about some of these things as she went along
through his house, her hand held in his. But of course I can't be
sure.

Jimmy's thoughts, of course, I can read like any old book. He
thought, "Now he'll have to believe me." That Lord Yalding should
believe him had become, quite unreasonably, the most important
thing in the world to Jimmy. He wished that Gerald and Kathleen
were there to share his triumph, but they were helping Mabel's
aunt to cover the grand furniture up, and so were out of what
followed. Not that they missed much, for when Mabel proudly
said, "Now you'll see, and the others came close round her in the
little panelled room, there was a pause, and then nothing happened
at all!

"There's a secret spring here somewhere," said Mabel, fumbling
with fingers that had suddenly grown hot and damp.

"Where?" said Lord Yalding.

"Here," said Mabel impatiently, "only I can't find it." 

And she couldn't. She found the spring of the secret panel under
the window all right, but that seemed to everyone dull compared
with the jewels that everyone had pictured and two at least had
seen. But the spring that made the oak panelling slide away and
displayed jewels plainly to any eye worth a king's ransom this
could not be found. More, it was simply not there. There could be
no doubt of that. Every inch of the panelling was felt by careful
fingers. The earnest protests of Mabel and Jimmy died away
presently in a silence made painful by the hotness of one's ears, the
discomfort of not liking to meet anyone's eyes, and the resentful
feeling that the spring was not behaving in at all a sportsmanlike
way, and that, in a word, this was not cricket.

"You see!" said Lord Yalding severely. "Now you've had your joke,
if you call it a joke, and I've had enough of the whole silly
business. Give me the ring it's mine, I suppose, since you say you
found it somewhere here and don't let's hear another word about all
this rubbish of magic and enchantment." 

"Gerald's got the ring," said Mabel miserably.

"Then go and fetch him," said Lord Yalding "both of you."

The melancholy pair retired, and Lord Yalding spent the time of
their absence in explaining to Mademoiselle how very unimportant
jewels were compared with other things.

The four children came back together.

"We've had enough of this ring business," said Lord Yalding. "Give
it to me and we'll say no more about it." 

"I I can't get it off," said Gerald. "It it always did have a will of its
own." 

"I'll soon get it off," said Lord Yalding. But he didn't. "We'll try
soap," he said firmly. Four out of his five hearers knew just exactly
how much use soap would be.

"They won't believe about the jewels," wailed Mabel, suddenly
dissolved in tears, "and I can't find the spring. I've felt all over we
all have it was just here, and " 

Her fingers felt it as she spoke; and as she ceased to speak the
carved panels slid away, and the blue velvet shelves laden with
jewels were disclosed to the unbelieving eyes of Lord Yalding and
the lady who was to be his wife.

"Jove!" said Lord Yalding.

"Misericorde!" said the lady.

"But why now?" gasped Mabel. "Why not before?"

"I expect it's magic," said Gerald. "There's no real spring here, and
it couldn't act because the ring wasn't here. You know Phoebus
told us the ring was the heart of all the magic." 

"Shut it up and take the ring away and see. 

They did, and Gerald was (as usual, he himself pointed out) proved
to be right. When the ring was away there was no spring; when the
ring was in the room there (as Mabel urged) was the spring all
right enough.

"So you see," said Mabel to Lord Yalding.

"I see that the spring's very artfully concealed," said that dense
peer. "I think it was very clever indeed of you to find it. And if
those jewels are real ,"

"Of course they're real," said Mabel indignantly.

"Well, anyway," said Lord Yalding, "thank you all very much. I
think it's clearing up. I'll send the wagonette home with you after
lunch. And if you don't mind, I'll have the ring."

Half an hour of soap and water produced no effect whatever,
except to make the finger of Gerald very red and very sore. Then
Lord Yalding said something very impatient indeed, and then
Gerald suddenly became angry and said: "Well, I'm sure I wish it
would come off," and of course instantly, "slick as butter" , as he
later pointed out, off it came.

"Thank you," said Lord Yalding.

"And I believe now he thinks I kept it on on purpose," said Gerald
afterwards when, at ease on the leads at home, they talked the
whole thing out over a tin of preserved pineapple and a bottle of
ginger-beer apiece. "There's no pleasing some people. He wasn't in
such a fiery hurry to order that wagonette after he found that
Mademoiselle meant to go when we did. But I liked him better
when he was a humble bailiff. Take him for all in all, he does not
look as if we should like him again. 

"He doesn't know what's the matter with him," said Kathleen,
leaning back against the tiled roof) "it's really the magic it's like
sickening with measles."

Don't you remember how cross Mabel was at first about the
invisibleness?"

"Rather!" said Jimmy.

"It's partly that," said Gerald, trying to be fair, "and partly it's the
being in love. It always makes people like idiots a chap at school
told me. His sister was like that . quite rotten, you know. And she
used to be quite a decent sort before she was engaged." 

At tea and at supper Mademoiselle was radiant as attractive as a
lady on a Christmas card, as merry as a marmoset, and as kind as
you would always be yourself if you could take the trouble. At
breakfast, an equal radiance, kindness, attraction, merriment. Then
Lord Yalding came to see her. The meeting took place in the
drawing-room; the children with deep discreetness remained shut
in the school-room till Gerald, going up to his room for a pencil,
surprised Eliza with her ear glued to the drawing-room key-hole.

After that Gerald sat on the top stair with a book.

He could not hear any of the conversation in the drawing-room,
but he could command a view of the door, and in this way be
certain that no one else heard any of it. Thus it was that when the
drawing-room door opened Gerald was in a position to see Lord
Yalding come out. "Our young hero, as he said later, "coughed
with infinite tact to show that he was there," but Lord Yalding did
not seem to notice. He walked in a blind sort of way to the
hat-stand, fumbled clumsily with the umbrellas and macintoshes,
found his straw hat and looked at it gloomily, crammed it on his
head and went out, banging the door behind him in the most
reckless way.

He left the drawing-room door open, and Gerald, though he had
purposely put himself in a position where one could hear nothing
from the drawing-room when the door was shut, could hear
something quite plainly now that the door was open. That
something, he noticed with deep distress and disgust, was the
sound of sobs and sniffs. Mademoiselle was quite certainly crying.

"Jimminy!" he remarked to himself, "they haven't lost much time.
Fancy their beginning to quarrel already! I hope I'll never have to
be anybody's lover."

But this was no time to brood on the terrors of his own future.
Eliza might at any time occur. She would not for a moment
hesitate to go through that open door, and push herself into the
very secret sacred heart of Mademoiselle's grief. It seemed to
Gerald better that he should be the one to do this. So he went softly
down the worn green Dutch carpet of the stairs and into the
drawing-room, shutting the door softly and securely behind him.

"It is all over," Mademoiselle was saying, her face buried in the
beady arum-lilies on a red ground worked for a cushion cover by a
former pupil: "he will not marry me!" 

Do not ask me how Gerald had gained the lady's confidence. He
had, as I think I said almost at the beginning, very pretty ways with
grown-ups, when he chose. Anyway, he was holding her hand,
almost as affectionately as if she had been his mother with a
headache, and saying "Don't!" and "Don't cry!" and "It'll be all
right, you see if it isn't" in the most comforting way you can
imagine, varying the treatment with gentle thumps on the back and
entreaties to her to tell him all about it.

This wasn't mere curiosity, as you might think. The entreaties were
prompted by Gerald's growing certainty that whatever was the
matter was somehow the fault of that ring. And in this Gerald was
("once more, as he told himself) right.

The tale, as told by Mademoiselle, was certainly an unusual one.
Lord Yalding, last night after dinner, had walked in the park "to
think of " 

"Yes, I know," said Gerald; "and he had the ring on. And he saw "

"He saw the monuments become alive," sobbed Mademoiselle;
"his brain was troubled by the ridiculous accounts of fairies that
you tell him. He sees Apollon and Aphrodite alive on their marble.
He remembers him of your story. He wish himself a statue. Then
he becomes mad imagines to himself that your story of the island
is true, plunges in the lake, swims among the beasts of the Ark of
Noe, feeds with gods on an island. At dawn the madness become
less. He think the Pantheon vanish. But him, no he thinks himself
statue, hiding from gardeners in his garden till nine less a quarter.
Then he thinks to wish himself no more a statue and perceives that
he is flesh and blood. A bad dream, but he has lost the head with
the tales you tell. He say it is no dream but he is fool mad how you
say? And a mad man must not marry. There is no hope. I am at
despair! And the life is vain!"

"There is," said Gerald earnestly. "I assure you there is hope, I
mean. And life's as right as rain really. And there's nothing to
despair about. He's not mad, and it's not a dream. It's magic. It
really and truly is." 

"The magic exists not," Mademoiselle moaned; "it is that he is
mad. It is the joy to re-see me after so many days. Oh,
la-la-la-la-la!" 

"Did he talk to the gods?" Gerald asked gently.

"It is there the most mad of all his ideas. He say that Mercure give
him rendezvous at some temple tomorrow when the moon raise
herself."

"Right," cried Gerald, "righto! Dear nice, kind, pretty
Mademoiselle Rapunzel, don't be a silly little duffer" he lost
himself for a moment among the consoling endearments he was
accustomed to offer to Kathleen in moments of grief and emotion,
but hastily added: "I mean, do not be a lady who weeps
causelessly. Tomorrow he will go to that temple. I will go. Thou
shalt go he will go. We will go you will go let 'em all go! And, you
see, it's going to be absolutely all right. He'll see he isn't mad, and
you'll understand all about everything. Take my handkerchief, it's
quite a clean one as it happens; I haven't even unfolded it. Oh! do
stop crying, there's a dear, darling, long-lost lover." 

This flood of eloquence was not without effect. She took his
handkerchief, sobbed, half smiled, dabbed at her eyes, and said:
"Oh, naughty! Is it some trick you play him, like the ghost?"

"I can't explain," said Gerald, "but I give you my word of honour 
you know what an Englishman's word of honour is, don't you?
even if you are French  that everything is going to be exactly what
you wish. I've never told you a lie. Believe me!" 

"It is curious," said she, drying her eyes, "but I do." And once
again, so suddenly that he could not have resisted, she kissed him.
I think, however, that in this her hour of sorrow he would have
thought it mean to resist.

"It pleases her and it doesn't hurt me much," would have been his
thought.

And now it is near moonrise. The French governess, half-doubting,
half-hoping, but wholly longing to be near Lord Yalding even if he
be as mad as a March hare, and the four children they have
collected Mabel by an urgent letter-card posted the day before are
going over the dewy grass. The moon has not yet risen, but her
light is in the sky mixed with the pink and purple of the sunset.
The west is heavy with ink-clouds and rich colour, but the east,
where the moon rises, is clear as a rock-pool.

They go across the lawn and through the beech wood and come at
last, through a tangle of underwood and bramble, to a little level
tableland that rises out of the flat hill-top one tableland out of
another. Here is the ring of vast rugged stones, one pierced with a
curious round hole, worn smooth at its edges. In the middle of the
circle is a great flat stone, alone, desolate, full of meaning a stone
that is covered thick with the memory of old faiths and creeds long
since forgotten. Something dark moves in the circle. The French
girl breaks from the children, goes to it, clings to its arm. It is Lord
Yalding, and he is telling her to go.

"Never of the life!" she cries. "If you are mad I am mad too, for I
believe the tale these children tell. And I am here to be with thee
and see with thee whatever the rising moon shall show us." 

The children, holding hands by the flat stone, more moved by the
magic in the girl's voice than by any magic of enchanted rings,
listen, trying not to listen.

"Are you not afraid?" Lord Yalding is saying.

"Afraid? With you?" she laughs. He put his arm round her. The
children hear her sigh.

"Are you afraid," he says, "my darling?"

Gerald goes across the wide turf ring expressly to say: "You can't
be afraid if you are wearing the ring. And I'm sorry, but we can
hear every word you say." 

She laughs again. "It makes nothing," she says "you know already
if we love each other." 

Then he puts the ring on her finger, and they stand together. The
white of his flannel coat sleeve marks no line on the white of her
dress; they stand as though cut out of one block of marble.

Then a faint greyness touches the top of that round hole, creeps up
the side. Then the hole is a disc of light a moonbeam strikes
straight through it across the grey green of the circle that the stones
mark, and as the moon rises the moonbeam slants downward. The
children have drawn back till they stand close to the lovers. The
moonbeam slants more and more; now it touches the far end of the
stone, now it draws nearer and nearer to the middle of it, now at
last it touches the very heart and centre of that central stone. And
then it is as though a spring were touched, a fountain of light
released. Everything changes or, rather, everything is revealed.
There are no more secrets. The plan of the world seems plain, like
an easy sum that one writes in big figures on a child's slate. One
wonders how one can ever have wondered about anything. Space
is not; every place that one has seen or dreamed of is here. Time is
not; into this instant is crowded all that one has ever done or
dreamed of doing. It is a moment and it is eternity. It is the centre
of the universe and it is the universe itself. The eternal light rests
on and illuminates the eternal heart of things.

None of the six human beings who saw that moon-rising were ever
able to think about it as having anything to do with time. Only for
one instant could that moon-ray have rested full on the centre of
that stone.

And yet there was time for many happenings.

From that height one could see far out over the quiet park and
sleeping gardens, and through the grey green of them shapes
moved, approaching.

The great beasts came first: strange forms that were when the
world was new  gigantic lizards with wings dragons they lived as
in men's memories mammoths, strange vast birds, they crawled up
the hill and ranged themselves outside the circle. Then, not from
the garden but from very far away, came the stone gods of Egypt
and Assyria bull-bodied, bird-winged, hawk-headed, cat-headed,
all in stone, and all alive and alert; strange, grotesque figures from
the towers of cathedrals figures of angels with folded wings,
figures of beasts with wings wide spread; sphinxes; uncouth idols
from Southern palm-fringed islands; and, last of all, the beautiful
marble shapes of the gods and goddesses who had held their
festival on the lake-island, and bidden Lord Yalding and the
children to this meeting.

Not a word was spoken. Each stone shape came gladly and quietly
into the circle of light and understanding, as children, tired with a
long ramble, creep quietly through the open door into the firelit
welcome of home.

The children had thought to ask many questions. And it had been
promised that the questions should be answered. Yet now no one
spoke a word, because all had come into the circle of the real
magic where all things are understood without speech.

Afterwards none of them could ever remember at all what had
happened. But they never forgot that they had been somewhere
where everything was easy and beautiful. And people who can
remember even that much are never quite the same again. And
when they came to talk of it next day they found that to each some
little part of that night's great enlightenment was left.

All the stone creatures drew closer round the stone the light where
the moonbeam struck it seemed to break away in spray such as
water makes when it falls from a height. All the crowd was bathed
in whiteness. A deep hush lay over the vast assembly.

Then a wave of intention swept over the mighty crowd. All the
faces, bird, beast, Greek statue, Babylonian monster, human child
and human lover, turned upward, the radiant light illumined them
and one word broke from all.

"The light!" they cried, and the sound of their voice was like the
sound of a great wave; "the light! the light "

And then the light was not any more, and, soft as floating
thistle-down, sleep was laid on the eyes of all but the immortals.

The grass was chill and dewy and the clouds had veiled the moon.
The lovers and the children were standing together, all clinging
close, not for fear, but for love.

"I want," said the French girl softly, "to go to the cave on the
island." 

Very quietly through the gentle brooding night they went down to
the boat-house, loosed the clanking chain, and dipped oars among
the drowned stars and lilies. They came to the island, and found
the steps.

"I brought candles," said Gerald, "in case." 

So, lighted by Gerald's candles, they went down into the Hall of
Psyche! and there glowed the light spread from her statue, and all
was as the children had seen it before.

It is the Hall of Granted Wishes.

"The ring," said Lord Yalding.

"The ring," said his lover, "is the magic ring given long ago to a
mortal, and it is what you say it is. It was given to your ancestor by
a lady of my house that he might build her a garden and a house
like her own palace and garden in her own land. So that this place
is built partly by his love and partly by that magic. She never lived
to see it; that was the price of the magic." 

It must have been English that she spoke, for otherwise how could
the children have understood her? Yet the words were not like
Mademoiselle's way of speaking.

"Except from children," her voice went on, "the ring exacts a
payment. You paid for me, when I came by your wish, by this
terror of madness that you have since known. Only one wish is
free." 

"And that wish is ," 

"The last," she said. "Shall I wish?"

"Yes wish," they said, all of them.

"I wish, then," said Lord Yalding's lover, "that all the magic this
ring has wrought may be undone, and that the ring itself may be no
more and no less than a charm to bind thee and me together for
evermore." 

She ceased. And as she ceased the enchanted light died away, the
windows of granted wishes went out, like magic-lantern pictures.
Gerald's candle faintly lighted a rudely arched cave, and where
Psyche's statue had been was a stone with something carved on it.

Gerald held the light low.

"It is her grave," the girl said.

Next day no one could remember anything at all exactly. But a
good many things were changed. There was no ring but the plain
gold ring that Mademoiselle found clasped in her hand when she
woke in her own bed in the morning. More than half the jewels in
the panelled room were gone, and those that remained had no
panelling to cover them; they just lay bare on the velvet-covered
shelves. There was no passage at the back of the Temple of Flora.
Quite a lot of the secret passages and hidden rooms had
disappeared. And there were not nearly so many statues in the
garden as everyone had supposed. And large pieces of the castle
were missing and had to be replaced at great expense.

From which we may conclude that Lord Yalding's ancestor had
used the ring a good deal to help him in his building.

However, the jewels that were left were quite enough to pay for
everything.

The suddenness with which all the ring-magic was undone was
such a shock to everyone concerned that they now almost doubt
that any magic ever happened.

But it is certain that Lord Yalding married the French governess
and that a plain gold ring was used in the ceremony, and this, if
you come to think of it, could be no other than the magic ring,
turned, by that last wish, into a charm to keep him and his wife
together for ever.

Also, if all this story is nonsense and a make-up if Gerald and
Jimmy and Kathleen and Mabel have merely imposed on my
trusting nature by a pack of unlikely inventions, how do you
account for the paragraph which appeared in the evening papers
the day after the magic of the moon-rising?

"MYSTERIOUS DISAPPEARANCE OF A WELL-KNOWN CITY MAN," 

it said, and then went on to say how a gentleman, well known and
much respected in financial circles, had vanished, leaving no trace.

"Mr. U. W. Ugli," the papers continued, "had remained late,
working at his office as was his occasional habit. The office door
was found locked, and on its being broken open the clothes of the
unfortunate gentleman were found in a heap on the floor, together
with an umbrella, a walking stick, a golf club, and, curiously
enough, a feather brush, such as housemaids use for dusting. Of his
body, however, there was no trace. The police are stated to have a
clew." 

If they have, they have kept it to themselves. But I do not think
they can have a clew, because, of course, that respected gentleman
was the Ugly-Wugly who became real when, in search of a really
good hotel, he got into the Hall of Granted Wishes. And if none of
this story ever happened, how is it that those four children are such
friends with Lord and Lady Yalding, and stay at The Towers
almost every holidays?

It is all very well for all of them to pretend that the whole of this
story is my own invention: facts are facts, and you can't explain
them away.










Etext prepared by John Bickers, jbickers@ihug.co.nz
and Dagny, dagnyj@hotmail.com





THE WANDERER'S NECKLACE

by H. Rider Haggard




First Published 1914.




                              DEDICATION

  In memory of Oodnadatta and many wanderings oversea I offer these
  pictures from the past, my dear Vincent, to you, a lover of the
  present if an aspirant who can look upon the future with more of
  hope than fear.
                                     Your colleague,
                                               H. Rider Haggard.
  To Sir Edgar Vincent, K.C.M.G.

  Ditchingham,
  November, 1913.



                          NOTE BY THE EDITOR

  It chances that I, the Editor of these pages--for, in truth, that
  is my humble function--have recovered a considerable knowledge of
  a bygone life of mine. This life ended in times that are
  comparatively recent, namely, early in the ninth century, as is
  fixed by the fact that the Byzantine Empress, Irene, plays a part
  in the story.

  The narrative, it will be observed, is not absolutely consecutive;
  that is to say, all the details are not filled in. Indeed, it has
  returned to me in a series of scenes or pictures, and although
  each scene or picture has to do with every other, there are
  sometimes gaps between them. To take one example among several--
  the journey of Olaf (in those days my name was Olaf, or Michael
  after I was baptised) from the North to Constantinople is not
  recorded. The curtain drops at Aar in Jutland and rises again in
  Byzantium. Only those events which were of the most importance
  seem to have burned themselves into my subconscious memory; many
  minor details have vanished, or, at least, I cannot find them.
  This, however, does not appear to me to be a matter for regret. If
  every episode of a full and eventful life were painted in, the
  canvas would be overloaded and the eye that studied it bewildered.

  I do not think that I have anything more to say. My tale must
  speak for itself. So I will but add that I hold it unnecessary to
  set out the exact method by which I have been able to dig it and
  others from the quarry of my past. It is a gift which, although
  small at first, I have been able gradually to develop. Therefore,
  as I wish to hide my present identity, I will only sign myself

                                                         The Editor.





                       THE WANDERER'S NECKLACE




                                BOOK I

                                 AAR



                              CHAPTER I

                        THE BETROTHAL OF OLAF

Of my childhood in this Olaf life I can regain but little. There come
to me, however, recollections of a house, surrounded by a moat,
situated in a great plain near to seas or inland lakes, on which plain
stood mounds that I connected with the dead. What the dead were I did
not quite understand, but I gathered that they were people who, having
once walked about and been awake, now laid themselves down in a bed of
earth and slept. I remember looking at a big mound which was said to
cover a chief known as "The Wanderer," whom Freydisa, the wise woman,
my nurse, told me had lived hundreds or thousands of years before, and
thinking that so much earth over him must make him very hot at nights.

I remember also that the hall called Aar was a long house roofed with
sods, on which grew grass and sometimes little white flowers, and that
inside of it cows were tied up. We lived in a place beyond, that was
separated off from the cows by balks of rough timber. I used to watch
them being milked through a crack between two of the balks where a
knot had fallen out, leaving a convenient eyehole about the height of
a walking-stick from the floor.

One day my elder and only brother, Ragnar, who had very red hair, came
and pulled me away from this eyehole because he wanted to look through
it himself at a cow that always kicked the girl who milked it. I
howled, and Steinar, my foster-brother, who had light-coloured hair
and blue eyes, and was much bigger and stronger than I, came to my
help, because we always loved each other. He fought Ragnar and made
his nose bleed, after which my mother, the Lady Thora, who was very
beautiful, boxed his ears. Then we all cried, and my father, Thorvald,
a tall man, rather loosely made, who had come in from hunting, for he
carried the skin of some animal of which the blood had run down on to
his leggings, scolded us and told my mother to keep us quiet as he was
tired and wanted to eat.

That is the only scene which returns to me of my infancy.

The next of which a vision has come to me is one of a somewhat similar
house to our own in Aar, upon an island called Lesso, where we were
all visiting a chief of the name of Athalbrand. He was a fierce-
looking man with a great forked beard, from which he was called
Athalbrand Fork-beard. One of his nostrils was larger than the other,
and he had a droop in his left eye, both of which peculiarities came
to him from some wound or wounds that he had received in war. In those
days everybody was at war with everybody else, and it was quite
uncommon for anyone to live until his hair turned grey.

The reason of our visit to this chief Athalbrand was that my elder
brother, Ragnar, might be betrothed to his only surviving child,
Iduna, all of whose brothers had been killed in some battle. I can see
Iduna now as she was when she first appeared before us. We were
sitting at table, and she entered through a door at the top of the
hall. She was clothed in a blue robe, her long fair hair, whereof she
had an abundance, was arranged in two plaits which hung almost to her
knees, and about her neck and arms were massive gold rings that
tinkled as she walked. She had a round face, coloured like a wild
rose, and innocent blue eyes that took in everything, although she
always seemed to look in front of her and see nothing. Her lips were
very red and appeared to smile. Altogether I thought her the loveliest
creature that ever I had looked on, and she walked like a deer and
held her head proudly.

Still, she did not please Ragnar, who whispered to me that she was sly
and would bring mischief on all that had to do with her. I, who at the
time was about twenty-one years of age, wondered if he had gone mad to
talk thus of this beautiful creature. Then I remembered that just
before we had left home I had caught Ragnar kissing the daughter of
one of our thralls behind the shed in which the calves were kept. She
was a brown girl, very well made, as her rough robe, fastened beneath
her breast with a strap, showed plainly, and she had big dark eyes
with a sleepy look in them. Also, I never saw anyone kiss quite so
hard as she did; Ragnar himself was outpassed. I think that is why
even the great lady, Iduna the Fair, did not please him. All the while
he was thinking of the brown-eyed girl in the russet robe. Still, it
is true that, brown-eyed girl or no, he read Iduna aright.

Moreover, if Ragnar did not like Iduna, from the first Iduna hated
Ragnar. So it came about that, although both my father, Thorvald, and
Iduna's father, Athalbrand, stormed and threatened, these two declared
that they would have nothing to do with each other, and the project of
their marriage came to an end.

On the night before we were to leave Lesso, whence Ragnar had already
gone, Athalbrand saw me staring at Iduna. This, indeed, was not
wonderful, as I could not take my eyes from her lovely face, and when
she looked at me and smiled with those red lips of hers I became like
a silly bird that is bewitched by a snake. At first I thought that he
was going to be angry, but suddenly some idea seemed to strike him so
that he called my father, Thorvald, outside the house. Afterwards I
was sent for, and found the two of them seated on a three-cornered,
flat stone, talking in the moonlight, for it was summer-time, when
everything looks blue at night and the sun and the moon ride in the
sky together. Near by stood my mother, listening.

"Olaf," said my father, "would you like to marry Iduna the Fair?"

"Like to marry Iduna?" I gasped. "Aye, more than to be High King of
Denmark, for she is no woman, but a goddess."

At this saying my mother laughed, and Athalbrand, who knew Iduna when
she did not seem a goddess, called me a fool. Then they talked, while
I stood trembling with hope and fear.

"He's but a second son," said Athalbrand.

"I have told you there is land enough for both of them, also the gold
that came with his mother will be his, and that's no small sum,"
answered Thorvald.

"He's no warrior, but a skald," objected Athalbrand again; "a silly
half-man who makes songs and plays upon the harp."

"Songs are sometimes stronger than swords," replied my father, "and,
after all, it is wisdom that rules. One brain can govern many men;
also, harps make merry music at a feast. Moreover, Olaf is brave
enough. How can he be otherwise coming of the stock he does?"

"He is thin and weedy," objected Athalbrand, a saying that made my
mother angry.

"Nay, lord Athalbrand," she said; "he is tall and straight as a dart,
and will yet be the handsomest man in these parts."

"Every duck thinks it has hatched out a swan," grumbled Athalbrand,
while with my eyes I implored my mother to be silent.

Then he thought for awhile, pulling at his long forked beard, and said
at last:

"My heart tells me no good of such a marriage. Iduna, who is the only
one left to me, could marry a man of more wealth and power than this
rune-making stripling is ever likely to be. Yet just now I know none
such whom I would wish to hold my place when I am gone. Moreover, it
is spread far and wide throughout the land that my daughter is to be
wed to Thorvald's son, and it matters little to which son. At least, I
will not have it said that she has been given the go-by. Therefore,
let this Olaf take her, if she will have him. Only," he added with a
growl, "let him play no tricks like that red-headed cub, his brother
Ragnar, if he would not taste of a spear through his liver. Now I go
to learn Iduna's mind."

So he went; as did my father and mother, leaving me alone, thinking
and thanking the gods for the chance that had come my way--yes, and
blessing Ragnar and that brown-eyed wench who had thrown her spell
over him.

Whilst I stood thus I heard a sound, and, turning, saw Iduna gliding
towards me in the blue twilight, looking more lovely than a dream. At
my side she stopped and said:

"My father tells me you wish to speak with me," and she laughed a
little softly and held me with her beautiful eyes.

After that I know not what happened till I saw Iduna bending towards
me like a willow in the wind, and then--oh, joy of joys!--felt her
kiss upon my lips. Now my speech was unsealed, and I told her the tale
that lovers have always told. How that I was ready to die for her (to
which she answered that she had rather that I lived, since ghosts were
no good husbands); how that I was not worthy of her (to which she
answered that I was young, with all my time before me, and might live
to be greater than I thought, as she believed I should); and so forth.

Only one more thing comes back to me of that blissful hour. Foolishly
I said what I had been thinking, namely, that I blessed Ragnar. At
these words, of a sudden Iduna's face grew stern and the lovelight in
her eyes was changed to such as gleams from swords.

"I do not bless Ragnar," she answered. "I hope one day to see
Ragnar----" and she checked herself, adding: "Come, let us enter,
Olaf. I hear my father calling me to mix his sleeping-cup."

So we went into the house hand in hand, and when they saw us coming
thus, all gathered there burst into shouts of laughter after their
rude fashion. Moreover, beakers were thrust into our hands, and we
were made to drink from them and swear some oath. Thus ended our
betrothal.

I think it was on the next day that we sailed for home in my father's
largest ship of war, which was named the /Swan/. I went unwillingly
enough, who desired to drink more of the delight of Iduna's eyes.
Still, go I must, since Athalbrand would have it so. The marriage, he
said, should take place at Aar at the time of the Spring feast, and
not before. Meanwhile he held it best we should be apart that we might
learn whether we still clung to each other in absence.

These were the reasons he gave, but I think that he was already
somewhat sorry for what he had done, and reflected that between
harvest and springtime he might find another husband for Iduna, who
was more to his mind. For Athalbrand, as I learned afterwards, was a
scheming and a false-hearted man. Moreover, he was of no high lineage,
but one who had raised himself up by war and plunder, and therefore
his blood did not compel him to honour.



The next scene which comes back to me of those early days is that of
the hunting of the white northern bear, when I saved the life of
Steinar, my foster-brother, and nearly lost my own.

It was on a day when the winter was merging into spring, but the
coast-line near Aar was still thick with pack ice and large floes
which had floated in from the more northern seas. A certain fisherman
who dwelt on this shore came to the hall to tell us that he had seen a
great white bear on one of these floes, which, he believed, had swum
from it to the land. He was a man with a club-foot, and I can recall a
vision of him limping across the snow towards the drawbridge of Aar,
supporting himself by a staff on the top of which was cut the figure
of some animal.

"Young lords," he cried out, "there is a white bear on the land, such
a bear as once I saw when I was a boy. Come out and kill the bear and
win honour, but first give me a drink for my news."

At that time I think my father, Thorvald, was away from home with most
of the men, I do not know why; but Ragnar, Steinar and I were
lingering about the stead with little or nothing to do, since the time
of sowing was not yet. At the news of the club-footed man, we ran for
our spears, and one of us went to tell the only thrall who could be
spared to make ready the horses and come with us. Thora, my mother,
would have stopped us--she said she had heard from her father that
such bears were very dangerous beasts--but Ragnar only thrust her
aside, while I kissed her and told her not to fret.

Outside the hall I met Freydisa, a dark, quiet woman of middle age,
one of the virgins of Odin, whom I loved and who loved me and, save
one other, me only among men, for she had been my nurse.

"Whither now, young Olaf?" she asked me. "Has Iduna come here that you
run so fast?"

"No," I answered, "but a white bear has."

"Oh! then things are better than I thought, who feared lest it might
be Iduna before her time. Still, you go on an ill errand, from which I
think you will return sadly."

"Why do you say that, Freydisa?" I asked. "Is it just because you love
to croak like a raven on a rock, or for some good reason?"

"I don't know, Olaf," she answered. "I say things because they come to
me, and I must, that is all. I tell you that evil will be born of this
bear hunt of yours, and you had better stop at home."

"To be laughed at by my brethren, Freydisa? Moreover, you are foolish,
for if evil is to be, how can I avoid it? Either your foresight is
nothing or the evil must come."

"That is so," answered Freydisa. "From your childhood up you had the
gift of reason which is more than is granted to most of these fools
about us. Go, Olaf, and meet your fore-ordained evil. Still, kiss me
before you go lest we should not see each other again for a while. If
the bear kills you, at least you will be saved from Iduna."

Now while she said these words I was kissing Freydisa, whom I loved
dearly, but when I understood them I leapt back before she could kiss
me again.

"What do you mean by your talk about Iduna?" I asked. "Iduna is my
betrothed, and I'll suffer no ill speech of her."

"I know she is, Olaf. You've got Ragnar's leavings. Although he is so
hot-headed, Ragnar is a wise dog in some ways, who can tell what he
should not eat. There, begone, you think me jealous of Iduna, as old
women can be, but it's not that, my dear. Oh! you'll learn before all
is done, if you live. Begone, begone! I'll tell you no more. Hark,
Ragnar is shouting to you," and she pushed me away.

It was a long ride to where the bear was supposed to be. At first as
we went we talked a great deal, and made a wager as to which of the
three of us should first drive a spear into the beast's body so deep
that the blade was hidden, but afterwards I grew silent. Indeed, I was
musing so much of Iduna and how the time drew near when once more I
should see her sweet face, wondering also why Ragnar and Freydisa
should think so ill of her who seemed a goddess rather than a woman,
that I forgot all about the bear. So completely did I forget it that
when, being by nature very observant, I saw the slot of such a beast
as we passed a certain birch wood, I did not think to connect it with
that which we were hunting or to point it out to the others who were
riding ahead of me.

At length we came to the sea, and there, sure enough, saw a great ice-
floe, which now and again tilted as the surge caught its broad green
flank. When it tilted towards us we perceived a track worn deep into
the ice by the paws of the prisoned bear as it had marched endlessly
round. Also we saw a big grinning skull, whereon sat a raven picking
at the eye-holes, and some fragments of white fur.

"The bear is dead!" exclaimed Ragnar. "Odin's curse be on that club-
footed fool who gave us this cold ride for nothing."

"Yes, I suppose so," said Steinar doubtfully. "Don't you think that it
is dead, Olaf?"

"What is the good of asking Olaf?" broke in Ragnar, with a loud laugh.
"What does Olaf know about bears? He has been asleep for the last
half-hour dreaming of Athalbrand's blue-eyed daughter; or perhaps he
is making up another poem."

"Olaf sees farther when he seems asleep than some of us do when we are
awake," answered Steinar hotly.

"Oh yes," replied Ragnar. "Sleeping or waking, Olaf is perfect in your
eyes, for you've drunk the same milk, and that ties you tighter than a
rope. Wake up, now, brother Olaf, and tell us: Is not the bear dead?"

Then I answered, "Why, of course, a bear is dead; see its skull, also
pieces of its hide?"

"There!" exclaimed Ragnar. "Our family prophet has settled the matter.
Let us go home."

"Olaf said that /a/ bear was dead," answered Steinar, hesitating.

Ragnar, who had already swung himself round in his quick fashion,
spoke back over his shoulder:

"Isn't that enough for you? Do you want to hunt a skull or the raven
sitting on it? Or is this, perchance, one of Olaf's riddles? If so, I
am too cold to guess riddles just now."

"Yet I think there is one for you to guess, brother," I said gently,
"and it is: Where is the live bear hiding? Can't you see that there
were two bears on that ice-head, and that one has killed and eaten the
other?"

"How do you know that?" asked Ragnar.

"Because I saw the slot of the second as we passed the birch wood
yonder. It has a split claw on the left forefoot and the others are
all worn by the ice."

"Then why in Odin's name did you not say so before?" exclaimed Ragnar
angrily.

Now I was ashamed to confess that I had been dreaming, so I answered
at hazard:

"Because I wished to look upon the sea and the floating ice. See what
wondrous colours they take in this light!"

When he heard this, Steinar burst out laughing till tears came into
his blue eyes and his broad shoulders shook. But Ragnar, who cared
nothing for scenery or sunsets, did not laugh. On the contrary, as was
usual with him when vexed, he lost his temper and swore by the more
evil of the gods. Then he turned on me and said:

"Why not tell the truth at once, Olaf? You are afraid of this beast,
and that's why you let us come on here when you knew it was in the
wood. You hoped that before we got back there it would be too dark to
hunt."

At this taunt I flushed and gripped the shaft of my long hunting
spear, for among us Northmen to be told that he was afraid of anything
was a deadly insult to a man.

"If you were not my brother----" I began, then checked myself, for I
was by nature easy-tempered, and went on: "It is true, Ragnar, I am
not so fond of hunting as you are. Still, I think that there will be
time to fight this bear and kill or be killed by it, before it grows
dark, and if not I will return alone to-morrow morning."

Then I pulled my horse round and rode ahead. As I went, my ears being
very quick, I heard the other two talking together. At least, I
suppose that I heard them; at any rate, I know what they said,
although, strangely enough, nothing at all comes back to me of their
tale of an attack upon a ship or of what then I did or did not do.

"It is not wise to jeer at Olaf," said Steinar, "for when he is stung
with words he does mad things. Don't you remember what happened when
your father called him 'niddering' last year because Olaf said it was
not just to attack the ship of those British men who had been driven
to our coast by weather, meaning us no harm?"

"Aye," answered Ragnar. "He leapt among them all alone as soon as our
boat touched her side, and felled the steersman. Then the British men
shouted out that they would not kill so brave a lad, and threw him
into the sea. It cost us that ship, since by the time we had picked
him up she had put about and hoisted her large sail. Oh, Olaf is brave
enough, we all know that! Still, he ought to have been born a woman or
a priest of Freya who only offers flowers. Also, he knows my tongue
and bears no malice."

"Pray that we get him home safe," said Steinar uneasily, "for if not
there will be trouble with your mother and every other woman in the
land, to say nothing of Iduna the Fair."

"Iduna the Fair would live through it," answered Ragnar, with a hard
laugh. "But you are right; and, what is more, there will be trouble
among the men also, especially with my father and in my own heart.
After all there is but one Olaf."

At this moment I held up my hand, and they stopped talking.



                              CHAPTER II

                       THE SLAYING OF THE BEAR

Leaping from their horses, Ragnar and Steinar came to where I stood,
for already I had dismounted and was pointing to the ground, which
just here had been swept clear of snow by the wind.

"I see nothing," said Ragnar.

"But I do, brother," I answered; "who study the ways of wild things
while you think I am asleep. Look, that moss has been turned over; for
it is frozen underneath and pressed up into little mounds between the
bear's claws. Also that tiny pool has gathered in the slot of the paw;
it is its very shape. The other footprints do not show because of the
rock."

Then I went forward a few paces behind some bushes and called out:
"Here runs the track, sure enough, and, as I thought, the brute has a
split claw; the snow marks it well. Bid the thrall stay with the
horses and come you."

They obeyed, and there on the white snow which lay beyond the bush we
saw the track of the bear stamped as if in wax.

"A mighty beast," said Ragnar. "Never have I seen its like."

"Aye," exclaimed Steinar, "but an ill place to hunt it in," and he
looked doubtfully at the rough gorge, covered with undergrowth, that
some hundred yards farther on became dense birch forest. "I think it
would be well to ride back to Aar, and return to-morrow morning with
all whom we can gather. This is no task for three spears."

By this time I, Olaf, was springing from rock to rock up the gorge,
following the bear's track. For my brother's taunts rankled in me and
I was determined that I should kill this beast or die and thus show
Ragnar that I feared no bear. So I called back to them over my
shoulder:

"Aye, go home, it is wisest; but I go on for I have never yet seen one
of these white ice-bears alive."

"Now it is Olaf who taunts in his turn," said Ragnar with a laugh.
Then they both sprang after me, but always I kept ahead of them.

For the half of a mile or more they followed me out of the scrub into
the birch forest, where the snow, lying on the matted boughs of the
trees and especially of some firs that were mingled with the birch,
made the place gloomy in that low light. Always in front of me ran the
huge slots of the bear till at length they brought me to a little
forest glade, where some great whirling wind had torn up many trees
which had but a poor root-hold on a patch of almost soilless rock.

These trees lay in confusion, their tops, which had not yet rotted,
being filled with frozen snow. On the edge of them I paused, having
lost the track. Then I went forward again, casting wide as a hound
does, while behind came Ragnar and Steinar, walking straight past the
edge of the glade, and purposing to meet me at its head. This, indeed,
Ragnar did, but Steinar halted because of a crunching sound that
caught his ear, and then stepped to the right between two fallen
birches to discover its cause. Next moment, as he told me afterwards,
he stood frozen, for there behind the boughs of one of the trees was
the huge white bear, eating some animal that it had killed. The beast
saw him, and, mad with rage at being disturbed, for it was famished
after its long journey on the floe, reared itself up on its hind legs,
roaring till the air shook. High it towered, its hook-like claws
outstretched.

Steinar tried to spring back, but caught his foot, and fell. Well for
him was it that he did so, for otherwise the blow which the bear
struck would have crushed him to a pulp. The brute did not seem to
understand where he had gone--at any rate, it remained upreared and
beating at the air. Then a doubt took it, its huge paws sank until it
sat like a begging dog, sniffing the wind. At this moment Ragnar came
back shouting, and hurled his spear. It stuck in the beast's chest and
hung there. The bear began to feel for it with its paws, and, catching
the shaft, lifted it to its mouth and champed it, thus dragging the
steel from its hide.

Then it bethought it of Steinar, and, sinking down, discovered him,
and tore at the birch tree under which he had crept till the splinters
flew from its trunk. Just then I reached it, having seen all. By now
the bear had its teeth fixed in Steinar's shoulder, or, rather, in his
leathern garment, and was dragging him from under the tree. When it
saw me it reared itself up again, lifting Steinar and holding him to
its breast with one paw. I went mad at the sight, and charged it,
driving my spear deep into its throat. With its other paw it struck
the weapon from my hand, shivering the shaft. There it stood, towering
over us like a white pillar, and roared with pain and fury, Steinar
still pressed against it, Ragnar and I helpless.

"He's sped!" gasped Ragnar.

I thought for a flash of time, and--oh! well do I remember that
moment: the huge beast foaming at the jaws and Steinar held to its
breast as a little girl holds a doll; the still, snow-laden trees, on
the top of one of which sat a small bird spreading its tail in jerks;
the red light of evening, and about us the great silences of the sky
above and of the lonely forest beneath. It all comes back to me--I can
see it now quite clearly; yes, even the bird flitting to another twig,
and there again spreading its tail to some invisible mate. Then I made
up my mind what to do.

"Not yet!" I cried. "Keep it in play," and, drawing my short and heavy
sword, I plunged through the birch boughs to get behind the bear.
Ragnar understood. He threw his cap into the brute's face, and then,
after it had growled at him awhile, just as it dropped its great jaws
to crunch Steinar, he found a bough and thrust it between them.

By now I was behind the bear, and, smiting at its right leg below the
knee, severed the tendon. Down it came, still hugging Steinar. I smote
again with all my strength, and cut into its spine above the tail,
paralysing it. It was a great blow, as it need to be to cleave the
thick hair and hide, and my sword broke in the backbone, so that, like
Ragnar, now I was weaponless. The forepart of the bear rolled about in
the snow, although its after half was still.

Then once more it seemed to bethink itself of Steinar, who lay
unmoving and senseless. Stretching out a paw, it dragged him towards
its champing jaws. Ragnar leapt upon its back and struck at it with
his knife, thereby only maddening it the more. I ran in and grasped
Steinar, whom the bear was again hugging to its breast. Seeing me, it
loosed Steinar, whom I dragged away and cast behind me, but in the
effort I slipped and fell forward. The bear smote at me, and its
mighty forearm--well for me that it was not its claws--struck me upon
the side of the head and sent me crashing into a tree-top to the left.
Five paces I flew before my body touched the boughs, and there I lay
quiet.

I suppose that Ragnar told me what passed after this while I was
senseless. At least, I know that the bear began to die, for my spear
had pierced some artery in its throat, and all the talk which
followed, as well as though I heard it with my ears. It roared and
roared, vomiting blood and stretching out its claws after Steinar as
Ragnar dragged him away. Then it laid its head flat upon the snow and
died. Ragnar looked at it and muttered:

"Dead!"

Then he walked to that top of the fallen tree in which I lay, and
again muttered: "Dead! Well, Valhalla holds no braver man than Olaf
the Skald."

Next he went to Steinar and once again exclaimed, "Dead!"

For so he looked, indeed, smothered in the blood of the bear and with
his garments half torn off him. Still, as the words passed Ragnar's
lips he sat up, rubbed his eyes and smiled as a child does when it
awakes.

"Are you much hurt?" asked Ragnar.

"I think not," he answered doubtfully, "save that I feel sore and my
head swims. I have had a bad dream." Then his eyes fell on the bear,
and he added: "Oh, I remember now; it was no dream. Where is Olaf?"

"Supping with Odin," answered Ragnar and pointed to me.

Steinar rose to his feet, staggered to where I lay, and stared at me
stretched there as white as the snow, with a smile upon my face and in
my hand a spray of some evergreen bush which I had grasped as I fell.

"Did he die to save me?" asked Steinar.

"Aye," answered Ragnar, "and never did man walk that bridge in better
fashion. You were right. Would that I had not mocked him."

"Would that I had died and not he," said Steinar with a sob. "It is
borne in upon my heart that it were better I had died."

"Then that may well be, for the heart does not lie at such a time.
Also it is true that he was worth both of us. There was something more
in him than there is in us, Steinar. Come, lift him to my back, and if
you are strong enough, go on to the horses and bid the thrall bring
one of them. I follow."

Thus ended the fight with the great white bear.



Some four hours later, in the midst of a raging storm of wind and
rain, I was brought at last to the bridge that spanned the moat of the
Hall of Aar, laid like a corpse across the back of one of the horses.
They had been searching for us at Aar, but in that darkness had found
nothing. Only, at the head of the bridge was Freydisa, a torch in her
hand. She glanced at me by the light of the torch.

"As my heart foretold, so it is," she said. "Bring him in," then
turned and ran to the house.

They bore me up between the double ranks of stabled kine to where the
great fire of turf and wood burned at the head of the hall, and laid
me on a table.

"Is he dead?" asked Thorvald, my father, who had come home that night;
"and if so, how?"

"Aye, father," answered Ragnar, "and nobly. He dragged Steinar yonder
from under the paws of the great white bear and slew it with his
sword."

"A mighty deed," muttered my father. "Well, at least he comes home in
honour."

But my mother, whose favourite son I was, lifted up her voice and
wept. Then they took the clothes from off me, and, while all watched,
Freydisa, the skilled woman, examined my hurts. She felt my head and
looked into my eyes, and laying her ear upon my breast, listened for
the beating of my heart.

Presently she rose, and, turning, said slowly:

"Olaf is not dead, though near to death. His pulses flutter, the light
of life still burns in his eyes, and though the blood runs from his
ears, I think the skull is not broken."

When she heard these words, Thora, my mother, whose heart was weak,
fainted for joy, and my father, untwisting a gold ring from his arm,
threw it to Freydisa.

"First the cure," she said, thrusting it away with her foot.
"Moreover, when I work for love I take no pay."

Then they washed me, and, having dressed my hurts, laid me on a bed
near the fire that warmth might come back to me. But Freydisa would
not suffer them to give me anything save a little hot milk which she
poured down my throat.



For three days I lay like one dead; indeed, all save my mother held
Freydisa wrong and thought that I was dead. But on the fourth day I
opened my eyes and took food, and after that fell into a natural
sleep. On the morning of the sixth day I sat up and spoke many wild
and wandering words, so that they believed I should only live as a
madman.

"His mind is gone," said my mother, and wept.

"Nay," answered Freydisa, "he does but return from a land where they
speak another tongue. Thorvald, bring hither the bear-skin."

It was brought and hung on a frame of poles at the end of the niche in
which I slept, that, as was usual among northern people, opened out of
the hall. I stared at it for a long while. Then my memory came back
and I asked:

"Did the great beast kill Steinar?"

"No," answered my mother, who sat by me. "Steinar was sore hurt, but
escaped and now is well again."

"Let me see him with my own eyes," I said.

So he was brought, and I looked on him. "I am glad you live, my
brother," I said, "for know in this long sleep of mine I have dreamed
that you were dead"; and I stretched out my wasted arms towards him,
for I loved Steinar better than any other man.

He came and kissed me on the brow, saying:

"Aye, thanks to you, Olaf, I live to be your brother and your thrall
till the end."

"My brother always, not my thrall," I muttered, for I was growing
tired. Then I went to sleep again.

Three days later, when my strength began to return, I sent for Steinar
and said:

"Brother, Iduna the Fair, whom you have never seen, my betrothed, must
wonder how it fares with me, for the tale of this hurt of mine will
have reached Lesso. Now, as there are reasons why Ragnar cannot go,
and as I would send no mean man, I pray you to do me a favour. It is
that you will take a boat and sail to Lesso, carrying with you as a
present from me to Athalbrand's daughter the skin of that white bear,
which I trust will serve her and me as a bed-covering in winter for
many a year to come. Tell her, thanks be to the gods and to the skill
of Freydisa, my nurse, I live who all thought must die, and that I
trust to be strong and well for our marriage at the Spring feast which
draws on. Say also that through all my sickness I have dreamed of none
but her, as I trust that sometimes she may have dreamed of me."

"Aye, I'll go," answered Steinar, "fast as horses' legs and sails can
carry me," adding with his pleasant laugh: "Long have I desired to see
this Iduna of yours, and to learn whether she is as beautiful as you
say; also what it is in her that Ragnar hates."

"Be careful that you do not find her too beautiful," broke in
Freydisa, who, as ever, was at my side.

"How can I if she is for Olaf?" answered Steinar, smiling, as he left
the place to make ready for his journey to Lesso.

"What did you mean by those words, Freydisa?" I asked when he was
gone.

"Little or much," she replied, shrugging her shoulders. "Iduna is
lovely, is she not, and Steinar is handsome, is he not, and of an age
when man seeks woman, and what is brotherhood when man seeks woman and
woman beguiles man?"

"Peace to your riddles, Freydisa. You forget that Iduna is my
betrothed and that Steinar was fostered with me. Why, I'd trust them
for a week at sea alone."

"Doubtless, Olaf, being young and foolish, as you are; also that is
your nature. Now here is the broth. Drink it, and I, whom some call a
wise woman and others a witch, say that to-morrow you may rise from
this bed and sit in the sun, if there is any."

"Freydisa," I said when I had swallowed the broth, "why do folk call
you a witch?"

"I think because I am a little less of a fool than other women, Olaf.
Also because it has not pleased me to marry, as it is held natural
that all women should do if they have the chance."

"Why are you wiser, and why have you not married, Freydisa?"

"I am wiser because I have questioned things more than most, and to
those who question answers come at last. And I am not married because
another woman took the only man I wanted before I met him. That was my
bad luck. Still, it taught me a great lesson, namely, how to wait and
meanwhile to acquire understanding."

"What understanding have you acquired, Freydisa? For instance, does it
tell you that our gods of wood and stone are true gods which rule the
world? Or are they but wood and stone, as sometimes I have thought?"

"Then think no more, Olaf, for such thoughts are dangerous. If Leif,
your uncle, Odin's high priest, heard them, what might he not say or
do? Remember that whether the gods live or no, certainly the priest
lives, and on the gods, and if the gods went, where would the priest
be? Also, as regards these gods--well, whatever they may or may not
be, at least they are the voices that in our day speak to us from that
land whence we came and whither we go. The world has known millions of
days, and each day has its god--or its voice--and all the voices speak
truth to those who can hear them. Meanwhile, you are a fool to have
sent Steinar bearing your gift to Iduna. Or perhaps you are very wise.
I cannot say as yet. When I learn I will tell you."

Then again she shrugged her shoulders and left me wondering what she
meant by her dark sayings. I can see her going now, a wooden bowl in
her hand, and in it a horn spoon of which the handle was cracked
longways, and thus in my mind ends all the scene of my sickness after
the slaying of the white bear.



The next thing that I remember is the coming of the men of Agger. This
cannot have been very long after Steinar went to Lesso, for he had not
yet returned. Being still weak from my great illness, I was seated in
the sun in the shelter of the house, wrapped up in a cloak of
deerskins--for the northern wind blew bitter. By me stood my father,
who was in a happy mood now he knew that I should live and be strong
again.

"Steinar should be back by now," I said to him. "I trust that he has
come by no ill."

"Oh no," answered my father carelessly. "For seven days the wind has
been high, and doubtless Athalbrand fears to let him sail from Lesso."

"Or perhaps Steinar finds Athalbrand's hall a pleasant place to bide
in," suggested Ragnar, who had joined us, a spear in his hand, for he
had come in from hunting. "There are good drink and bright eyes
there."

I was about to answer sharply, since Ragnar stung me with his bitter
talk of Steinar, of whom I knew him to be somewhat jealous, because he
thought I loved my foster-brother more than I did him, my brother.
Just then, however, three men appeared through trees that grew about
the hall, and came towards the bridge, whereon Ragnar's great
wolfhounds, knowing them for strangers, set up a furious baying and
sprang forward to tear them. By the time the beasts were caught and
quelled, these men, aged persons of presence, had crossed the bridge
and were greeting us.

"This is the hall of Thorvald of Aar, is it not? And a certain Steinar
dwells here with him, does he not?" asked their spokesman.

"It is, and I am Thorvald," answered my father. "Also Steinar has
dwelt here from his birth up, but is now away from home on a visit to
the lord Athalbrand of Lesso. Who are you, and what would you of
Steinar, my fosterling"

"When you have told us the story of Steinar we will tell you who we
are and what we seek," answered the man, adding: "Fear not, we mean
him no harm, but rather good if he is the man we think."

"Wife," called my father, "come hither. Here are men who would know
the story of Steinar, and say that they mean him good."

So my mother came, and the men bowed to her.

"The story of Steinar is short, sirs," she said. "His mother,
Steingerdi, who was my cousin and the friend of my childhood, married
the great chief Hakon, of Agger, two and twenty summers gone. A year
later, just before Steinar was born, she fled to me here, asking
shelter of my lord. Her tale was that she had quarrelled with Hakon
because another woman had crept into her place. Finding that this tale
was true, and that Hakon had treated her ill indeed, we gave her
shelter, and here her son Steinar was born, in giving birth to whom
she died--of a broken heart, as I think, for she was mad with grief
and jealousy. I nursed him with my son Olaf yonder, and as, although
he had news of his birth, Hakon never claimed him, with us he has
dwelt as a son ever since. That is all the tale. Now what would you
with Steinar?"

"This Lady. The lord Hakon and the three sons whom that other woman
you tell of bore him ere she died--for after Steingerdi's death he
married her--were drowned in making harbour on the night of the great
gale eighteen days ago."

"That is the day when the bear nearly killed Steinar," I interrupted.

"Well for him, then, young sir, that he escaped this bear, for now, as
it seems to us, he is the lord of all Hakon's lands and people, being
the only male left living of his issue. This, by the wish of the head
men of Agger, where is Hakon's hall, we have come to tell him, if he
still lives, since by report he is a goodly man and brave--one well
fitted to sit in Hakon's place.

"Is the heritage great?" asked my father.

"Aye, very great, Lord. In all Jutland there was no richer man than
Hakon."

"By Odin!" exclaimed my father, "it seems that Steinar is in Fortune's
favour. Well, men of Agger, enter and rest you. After you have eaten
we will talk further of these matters."

It was just then that, appearing between the trees on the road that
ran to Fladstrand and to the sea, I saw a company mounted upon horses.
In front was a young woman, wrapped in a coat of furs, talking eagerly
to a man who rode by her. Behind, clad in armour, with a battle-axe
girt about him, rode another man, big and fork-bearded, who stared
about him gloomily, and behind him again ten or twelve thralls and
seamen.

One glance was enough for me. Then I sprang up, crying:

"Iduna's self, and with her my brother Steinar, the lord Athalbrand
and his folk. A happy sight indeed!" And I would have run forward to
meet them.

"Yes, yes," said my mother; "but await them here, I pray you. You are
not yet strong, my son." And she flung her arms about me and held me.

Presently they were at the bridge, and Steinar, springing from his
horse, lifted Iduna from her saddle, a sight at which I saw my mother
frown. Then I would no longer be restrained, but ran forward, crying
greetings as I came, and, seizing Iduna's hand, I kissed it. Indeed, I
would have kissed her cheek also, but she shrank back, saying:

"Not before all these folk, Olaf."

"As you will," I answered, though just then a chill struck me, which,
I thought to myself, came doubtless from the cold wind. "It will be
the sweeter afterwards," I added as gaily as I could.

"Yes," she said hurriedly. "But, Olaf, how white and thin you are. I
had hoped to find you well again, though, not knowing how it fared
with you, I came to see with my own eyes."

"That is good of you," I muttered as I turned to grasp Steinar's hand,
adding: "I know well who it was that brought you here."

"Nay, nay," she said. "I came of myself. But my father waits you,
Olaf."

So I went to where the lord Athalbrand Fork-beard was dismounting, and
greeted him, lifting my cap.

"What!" grumbled Athalbrand, who seemed to be in an ill temper, "are
you Olaf? I should scarcely have known you again, lad, for you look
more like a wisp of hay tied on a stick than a man. Now that the flesh
is off you I see you lack bone, unlike some others," and he glanced at
the broad-shouldered Steinar. "Greeting to you, Thorvald. We are come
here through a sea that nearly drowned us, somewhat before the
appointed time, because--well, because, on the whole, I thought it
best to come. I pray Odin that you are more glad to see us than I am
to see you."

"If so, friend Athalbrand, why did you not stop away?" asked my
father, firing up, then adding quickly: "Nay, no offence; you are
welcome here, whatever your humour, and you too, my daughter that is
to be, and you, Steinar, my fosterling, who, as it chances, are come
in a good hour."

"How's that, Lord?" asked Steinar absently, for he was looking at
Iduna.

"Thus, Steinar: These men"--and he pointed to the three messengers--
"have but just arrived from Agger with the news that your father,
Hakon, and your half-brothers are all drowned. They say also that the
folk of Agger have named you Hakon's heir, as, indeed, you are by
right of blood."

"Is that so?" exclaimed Steinar, bewildered. "Well, as I never saw my
father or my brothers, and they treated me but ill, I cannot weep for
them."

"Hakon!" broke in Athalbrand. "Why, I knew him well, for in my youth
we were comrades in war. He was the wealthiest man in Jutland in
cattle, lands, thralls and stored gold. Young friend, your luck is
great," and he stared first at Steinar, then at Iduna, pulling his
forked beard and muttering words to himself that I could not catch.

"Steinar gets the fortune he deserves," I exclaimed, embracing him.
"Not for nothing did I save you from the bear, Steinar. Come, wish my
foster-brother joy, Iduna."

"Aye, that I do with all my heart," she said. "Joy and long life to
you, and with them rule and greatness, Steinar, Lord of Agger," and
she curtsied to him, her blue eyes fixed upon his face.

But Steinar turned away, making no answer. Only Ragnar, who stood by,
burst into a loud laugh. Then, putting his arm through mine, he led me
into the hall, saying:

"This wind is over cold for you, Olaf. Nay, trouble not about Iduna.
Steinar, Lord of Agger, will care for her, I think."

That night there was a feast at Aar, and I sat at it with Iduna by my
side. Beautiful she was indeed in her garment of blue, over which
streamed her yellow hair, bright as the gold rings that tinkled on her
rounded arms. She was kind to me also, and bade me tell her the story
of the slaying of the bear, which I did as best I could, though
afterwards Ragnar told it otherwise, and more fully. Only Steinar said
little or nothing, for he seemed to be lost in dreams.

I thought that this was because he felt sad at the news of the death
of his father and brethren, since, although he had never known them,
blood still calls to blood; and so, I believe, did most there present.
At any rate my father and mother tried to cheer him and in the end
bade the men of Agger draw near to tell him the tale of his heritage.

They obeyed, and set out all their case, of which the sum was that
Steinar must now be one of the wealthiest and most powerful men of the
northern lands.

"It seems that we should all take off our caps to you, young lord,"
said Athalbrand when he heard this tale of rule and riches. "Why did
you not ask me for my fair daughter?" he added with a half-drunken
laugh, for all the liquor he had swallowed had got a hold of his
brain. Recovering himself, he went on: "It is my will, Thorvald, that
Iduna and this snipe of an Olaf of yours should be wed as soon as
possible. I say that they shall be wed as soon as possible, since
otherwise I know not what may happen."

Then his head fell forward on the table and he sank to sleep.



                             CHAPTER III

                       THE WANDERER'S NECKLACE

On the morrow early I lay awake, for how could I sleep when Iduna
rested beneath the same roof with me--Iduna, who, as her father had
decreed, was to become my wife sooner than I had hoped? I was thinking
how beautiful she looked, and how much I loved her; also of other
things that were not so pleasant. For instance, why did not everybody
see her with my eyes? I could not hide from myself that Ragnar went
near to hating her; more than once she had almost been the cause of a
quarrel between us. Freydisa, too, my nurse, who loved me, looked on
her sourly, and even my mother, although she tried to like her for my
sake, had not yet learned to do so, or thus it appeared to me.

When I asked her why, she replied that she feared the maid was
somewhat selfish, also too fond of drawing the eyes of men, and of the
adornment of her beauty. Of those who were dearest to me, indeed, only
Steinar seemed to think Iduna as perfect as I did myself. This, so far
as it went, was well; but, then, Steinar and I had always thought
alike, which robbed his judgment of something of its worth.

Whilst I was pondering over these things, although it was still so
early that my father and Athalbrand were yet in bed sleeping off the
fumes of the liquor they had drunk, I heard Steinar himself talking to
the messengers from Agger in the hall. They asked him humbly whether
he would be pleased to return with them that day and take possession
of his inheritance, since they must get back forthwith to Agger with
their tidings. He replied that if they would send some or come
themselves to escort him on the tenth day from that on which they
spoke, he would go to Agger with them, but that until then he could
not do so.

"Ten days! In ten days who knows what may happen?" said their
spokesman. "Such a heritage as yours will not lack for claimants,
Lord, especially as Hakon has left nephews behind him."

"I know not what will or will not happen," answered Steinar, "but
until then I cannot come. Go now, I pray you, if you must, and bear my
words and greetings to the men of Agger, whom soon I hope to meet
myself."

So they went, as I thought, heavily enough. A while afterwards my
father rose and came into the hall, where from my bed I could see
Steinar seated on a stool by the fire brooding. He asked where the men
of Agger were, and Steinar told him what he had done.

"Are you mad, Steinar?" he asked. "that you have sent them away with
such an answer? Why did you not consult me first?"

"Because you were asleep, Foster-father, and the messengers said they
must catch the tide. Also I could not leave Aar until I had seen Olaf
and Iduna married."

"Iduna and Olaf can marry without your help. It takes two to make a
marriage, not three. I see well that you owe love and loyalty to Olaf,
who is your foster-brother and saved your life, but you owe something
to yourself also. I pray Odin that this folly may not have cost you
your lordship. Fortune is a wench who will not bear slighting."

"I know it," answered Steinar, and there was something strange in his
voice. "Believe me, I do not slight fortune; I follow her in my own
fashion."

"Then it is a mad fashion," grumbled my father, and walked away.



It comes back to me that it was some days after this that I saw the
ghost of the Wanderer standing on his grave mound. It happened thus.
On a certain afternoon I had been riding alone with Iduna, which was a
great joy to me, though I would sooner have walked, for then I could
have held her hand, and perhaps, if she had suffered it, kissed her. I
had recited to her a poem which I had made comparing her to the
goddess Iduna, the wife of Bragi, she who guarded the apples of
immortal youth whereof the gods must eat or die, she whose garment was
the spring, woven of the flowers that she put on when she escaped from
winter's giant grasp. I think that it was a very good poem of its own
sort, but Iduna seemed to have small taste for poetry and to know
little of the lovely goddess and her apples, although she smiled
sweetly and thanked me for my verses.

Then she began to talk of other matters, especially of how, after we
were wed, her father wished to make war upon another chieftain and to
seize his land. She said that it was for this reason that he had been
so anxious to form an alliance with my father, Thorvald, as such an
alliance would make him sure of victory. Before that time, she told me
that he, Athalbrand, had purposed to marry her to another lord for
this very reason, but unhappily this lord had been killed in battle.

"Nay, happily for us, Iduna," I said.

"Perhaps," she answered with a sigh. "Who knows? At any rate, your
House will be able to give us more ships and men than he who is dead
could have done."

"Yet I love peace, not war," I broke in, "I who hate the slaying of
those who have never harmed me, and do not seek to die on the swords
of men whom I have no desire to harm. Of what good is war when one has
enough? I would be no widow-maker, Iduna, nor do I wish that others
should make you a widow."

Iduna looked at me with her steady blue eyes.

"You talk strangely, Olaf," she said, "and were it not known to be
otherwise, some might hold that you are a coward. Yet it was no coward
who leapt alone on board the battle ship, or who slew the great white
bear to save Steinar's life. I do not understand you, Olaf, you who
have doubts as to the killing of men. How does a man grow great except
upon the blood of others? It is that which fats him. How does the wolf
live? How does the kite live? How does Odin fill Valhalla? By death,
always by death."

"I cannot answer you," I said; "yet I hold that somewhere there is an
answer which I do not know, since wrong can never be the right."

Then, as she did not seem to understand, I began to talk of other
things, but from that moment I felt as though a veil swung between me
and Iduna. Her beauty held my flesh, but some other part in me turned
away from her. We were different.

When we reached the hall we met Steinar, who was lingering near the
door. He ran forward and helped Iduna to dismount, then said:

"Olaf, I know that you must not overtire yourself as yet, but your
lady has told me that she desires to see the sunset from Odin's Mount.
Have I your leave to take her there?"

"I do not yet need Olaf's leave to walk abroad, though some few days
hence it may be different," broke in Iduna, with a merry laugh, before
I could answer. "Come, lord Steinar, let us go and see this sunset
whereof you talk so much."

"Yes, go," I said, "only do not stay too long, for I think a storm
comes up. But who is that has taught Steinar to love sunsets?"

So they went, and before they had been gone an hour the storm broke as
I had foreseen. First came wind, and with it hail, and after that
thunder and great darkness, lit up from time to time by pulsing
lightning.

"Steinar and Iduna do not return. I am afraid for them," I said at
last to Freydisa.

"Then why do you not go to seek them?" she asked with a little laugh.

"I think I will," I said.

"If so, I will come with you, Olaf, for you still need a nurse,
though, for my part, I hold that the lord Steinar and the lady Iduna
can guard themselves as well as most folk. No, I am wrong. I mean that
the lady Iduna can guard herself and the lord Steinar. Now, be not
angry. Here's your cloak."

So we started, for I was urged to this foolish journey by some impulse
that I could not master. There were two ways of reaching Odin's Mount;
one, the shorter, over the rocks and through the forest land. The
other, the longer, ran across the open plain, between the many earth
tombs of the dead who had lived thousands of years before, and past
the great mound in which it was said that a warrior of long ago, who
was named the Wanderer, lay buried. Because of the darkness we chose
this latter road, and presently found ourselves beneath the great mass
of the Wanderer's Mount. Now the darkness was intense, and the
lightning grew rare, for the hail and rain had ceased and the storm
was rolling away.

"My counsel is," said Freydisa, "that we wait here until the moon
rises, which it should do soon. When the wind has driven away the
clouds it will show us our path, but if we go on in this darkness we
shall fall into some pit. It is not cold to-night, and you will take
no harm."

"No, indeed," I answered, "for now I am as strong again as ever I
was."

So we stayed till the lightning, flashing for the last time, showed us
a man and a woman standing quite close to us, although we had not
heard them because of the wind. They were Steinar and Iduna, talking
together eagerly, with their faces very near to each other. At the
same moment they saw us. Steinar said nothing, for he seemed confused,
but Iduna ran to us and said:

"Thanks be to the gods who send you, Olaf. The great storm caught us
at Odin's temple, where we were forced to shelter. Then, fearing that
you would grow frightened, we started, and lost our way."

"Is it so?" I answered. "Surely Steinar would have known this road
even in the dark. But what matter, since I have found you?"

"Aye, he knew as soon as we saw this grave mound. But Steinar was
telling me that some ghost haunts it, and I begged him to stay awhile,
since there is nothing I desire so much as to see a ghost, who believe
little in such things. So he stayed, though he says he fears the dead
more than the living. Freydisa, they tell me that you are very wise.
Cannot you show me this ghost?"

"The spirit does not ask my leave to appear, lady," answered Freydisa
in her quiet voice. "Still, at times it does appear, for I have seen
it twice. So let us bide here a little on the chance."

Then she went forward a few steps and began to mutter to herself.

Some minutes later the clouds broke and the great moon was seen riding
low down in a clear sky, illumining the grave mound and all the plain,
save where we stood in the shadow of the mount.

"Do you see aught?" asked Freydisa presently. "If not, let us be gone,
for when the Wanderer comes at all it is at the rising of the moon."

Steinar and Iduna answered, "No," but I, who did see something, said:

"Look yonder among the shadows. Mayhap it is a wolf stirring. Nay, it
is a man. Look, Iduna."

"I look and find nothing," she answered.

"Look again," I said. "He reaches the top of the mount and stands
there staring towards the south. Oh! now he turns, and the moonlight
shines upon his face."

"You dream, Olaf," said Steinar. "If you do not dream, tell us of the
likeness of this spirit."

"Its likeness," I answered, "is that of a tall and noble man, worn as
though with years and sorrows. He wears strange rich armour that is
dinted and soiled; on his head is a cap of mail with two long ear-
pieces, beneath which appears his brown hair lined with grey. He holds
a red-coloured sword which is handled with a cross of gold. He points
the sword at you, Steinar. It is as though he were angry with you, or
warned you."

Now, when Steinar heard these words he shook and groaned, as I
remembered afterwards. But of this I took no note at the time, for
just then Iduna cried out:

"Say, Olaf, does the man wear a necklace? I see a necklace hanging in
the air above the mount, but naught else."

"Yes, Iduna, he wears a necklace above his mail. How does it appear to
you?"

"Oh, beautiful, beautiful!" she answered. "A chain of pale gold, and
hanging from it golden shells inlaid with blue, and between them green
jewels that hold the moon."

"That is what I see also," I said, as indeed I did. "There! All is
gone."

Freydisa returned and there was a strange smile on her dark face, for
she had heard all our talk.

"Who sleeps in that mound, Freydisa?" asked Iduna.

"How can I tell, Lady, seeing that he was laid there a thousand years
ago, or mayhap more? Yet a story, true or false, remains of him that I
have heard. It is that he was a king of these parts, who followed a
dream to the south. The dream was of a necklace, and of one who wore
it. For many years he wandered, and at length returned again to this
place, which had been his home, wearing the necklace. But when he saw
its shore from the sea he fell down and his spirit left him. What
happened to him in his wanderings none know, for the tale is lost.
Only it is said that his people buried him in yonder mound still
wearing his armour and the necklace he had won. There, as Olaf has
seen, or thinks that he has seen but now, he stands at moonrise ere
trouble comes to any of his race, and stares towards the south--always
towards the south."

"Is the necklace yet in the mound?" asked Iduna eagerly.

"Without doubt, Lady. Who would dare to touch the holy thing and bring
on him the curse of the Wanderer and his gods, and with it his own
death? No man that ever sailed the seas, I think."

"Not so, Freydisa, for I am sure I know one who would dare it for my
sake. Olaf, if you love me, bring me that necklace as a marriage gift.
I tell you that, having once seen it, I want it more than anything in
all the world."

"Did you hear what Freydisa said?" I asked. "That he who wrought this
sacrilege would bring upon himself evil and death?"

"Yes, I heard; but it is folly, for who need fear dead bones? As for
the shape you saw, why, it is strengthless for good or ill, a shadow
drawn from what has been by the magic moon, or perchance by Freydisa's
witchery. Olaf, Olaf, get me that necklace or I will never kiss you
more."

"That means you will not marry me, Iduna?"

"That means I will only marry the man who gives me that necklace. If
you fear the deed, perhaps there are some others by whom it might be
tried."

Now when I heard these words a sudden rage seized me. Was I to be
taunted thus by the fair woman whom I loved?

"Fear is an ill word to use to me," I said sternly. "Know, Iduna, that
if it is put to me thus I fear nothing in life or death. You shall
have the necklace if it can be found in yonder earth, chance what may
to the searcher. Nay, no more words. Steinar will lead you home; I
must talk of this matter with Freydisa."



It was midnight, I know not on what day, since all these things come
back to me in vivid scenes, as flashes of lightning show a landscape,
but are separated from each other by dense darkness. Freydisa and I
stood by the Wanderer's grave, and at our feet lay digging tools, two
lamps, and tinder to light them. We were setting about our grim task
at dead of night, for fear lest the priests should stay us. Also, I
did not wish the people to know that I had done this thing.

"Here is work for a month," I said doubtfully, looking up at the great
mass of the mound.

"Nay," replied Freydisa, "since I can show you the door of the grave,
and perchance the passage still stands. Yet, will you really enter
there?"

"Why not, Freydisa? Must I bear to be taunted by the woman I am to
wed? Surely it would be better to die and have done. Let the ghost
slay me if he will. It comes upon me that if so I shall be spared
trouble."

"No bridegroom's talk," said Freydisa, "however true it may be. Yet,
young Olaf, do you take heart, since I think that this ghost has no
desire for your blood. I am wise in my own fashion, Olaf, and much of
the past comes to me, if little of the future, and I believe that this
Wanderer and you have more to do with each other than we can guess. It
may be even that this task is appointed to you and that all these
happenings, which are but begun, work to an end unseen. At the least,
try your fortune, and if you die--why, I who was your nurse from your
mother's knee, love you well enough to die with you. Together we'll
descend to Hela's halls, there to seek out the Wanderer and learn his
story."

Then, throwing her arms about my neck, she drew me to her and kissed
me on the brow.

"I was not your mother, Olaf," she went on, "but, to be honest, I
would have been could I have had my fancy though, strangely enough, I
never felt thus towards Ragnar, your brother. Now, why do you make me
talk foolishness? Come hither, and I will show you the entrance to the
grave; it is where the sun first strikes upon it."

Then she led me to the east of the mound, where, not more than eight
or ten feet from its base, grew a patch of bushes. Among these bushes
was a little hollow, as though at this spot the earth had sunk in.
Here, at her bidding, I began to dig, and with her help worked for the
half of an hour or more in silence, till at length my spade struck
against a stone.

"It is the door-stone," said Freydisa. "Dig round it."

So I dug till I made a hole at the edge of the stone large enough for
a man to creep through. After this we paused to rest a while and to
allow the air within the mound to purify.

"Now," she said, "if you are not afraid, we will enter."

"I am afraid," I answered. Indeed, the terror which struck me then
returns, so that even as I write I feel fear of the dead man who lay,
and for aught I know still lies, within that grave. "Yet," I added,
"never will I face Iduna more without the necklace, if it can be
found."

So we struck sparks on to the tinder, and from them lit the two lamps
of seal oil. Then I crept into the hole, Freydisa following me, to
find myself in a narrow passage built of rough stones and roofed with
flat slabs of water-worn rock. This tunnel, save for a little dry soil
that had sifted into it through the cracks between the stones, was
quite clear. We crawled along it without difficulty till we came to
the tomb chamber, which was in the centre of the mound, but at a
higher level than the entrance. For the passage sloped upwards,
doubtless to allow for drainage. The huge stones with which it was
lined and roofed over, were not less than ten feet high and set on end
side by side. One of these upright stones was that designed for the
door. Had it been in place, we could not have entered the chamber
without great labour and the help of many men; but, as it chanced,
either it had never been set up after the burial, or this was done so
hastily that it had fallen.

"We are in luck's way," said Freydisa, when she noticed this. "No, I
will go first, who know more of ghosts than you do, Olaf. If the
Wanderer strikes, let him strike me," and she clambered over the
fallen slab.

Presently she called back, saying:

"Come; all is quiet here, as it should be in such a place."

I followed her, and sliding down the end of the stone--which I
remember scratched my elbow and made it bleed--found myself in a
little room about twelve feet square. In this place there was but one
thing to be seen: what appeared to be the trunk of a great oak tree,
some nine feet in length, and, standing on it, side by side, two
figures of bronze under a foot in height.

"The coffin in which the Wanderer lies and the gods he worshipped,"
said Freydisa.

Then she took up first one and next the other of the bronze figures
and we examined them in the light of the lamps, although I feared to
touch them. They were statues of a man and a woman.

The man, who wore a long and formal beard, was wrapped in what seemed
to be a shroud, through an opening in which appeared his hands. In the
right hand was a scourge with a handle, and in the left a crook such
as a shepherd might use, only shorter. On his head was what I took to
be a helmet, a tall peaked cap ending in a knob, having on either side
of it a stiff feather of bronze, and in front, above the forehead, a
snake, also of bronze.

The woman was clad in a straight and narrow robe, cut low beneath her
breast. Her face was mild and beautiful, and in her right hand she
held a looped sceptre. Her hair descended in many long plaits on to
her shoulders. For head-dress she wore two horns, supporting between
them a burnished disc of gold like to that of the moon when it is
full.

"Strange gods!" I muttered.

"Aye," answered Freydisa, "yet maybe true ones to those who worship
them. But we will talk of these later; now for their servant."

Then she dropped the figures into a pouch at her side, and began to
examine the trunk of the oak tree, of which the outer sap wood had
been turned to tinder by age, leaving the heart still hard as iron.

"See," she said, pointing to a line about four inches from the top,
"the tree has been sawn in two length-ways and the lid laid on. Come,
help."

Then she took an iron-shod staff which we had brought with us, and
worked its sharp point into the crack, after which we both rested our
weight upon the staff. The lid of the coffin lifted quite easily, for
it was not pegged down, and slid of its own weight over the side of
the tree. In the cavity beneath was a form covered with a purple cloak
stained as though by salt water. Freydisa lifted the cloak, and there
lay the Wanderer as he had been placed a thousand or more of years
before our time, as perfect as he had been in the hour of his death,
for the tannin from the new-felled tree in which he was buried had
preserved him.

Breathless with wonder, we bent down and examined him by the light of
the lamps. He was a tall, spare man, to all appearance of between
fifty and sixty years of age. His face was thin and fine; he wore a
short, grizzled beard; his hair, so far as it could be seen beneath
his helmet, was brown and lightly tinged with grey.

"Does he call anyone to your mind?" asked Freydisa.

"Yes, I think so, a little," I replied. "Who is it, now? Oh! I know,
my mother."

"That is strange, Olaf, since to me he seems much like what you might
become should you live to his years. Yet it was through your mother's
line that Aar came to your race many generations gone, for this much
is known. Well, study him hard, for, look you, now that the air has
got to him, he melts away."

Melt he did, indeed, till presently there was nothing left save a
skull patched here and there with skin and hair. Yet I never forgot
that face; indeed, to this hour I see it quite clearly. When at length
it had crumbled, we turned to other things, knowing that our time in
the grave must be measured by the oil in the simple lamps we had.
Freydisa lifted a cloth from beneath the chin, revealing a dinted
breastplate of rich armour, different from any of our day and land,
and, lying on it, such a necklace as we had seen upon the ghost, a
beauteous thing of inlaid golden shells and emerald stones shaped like
beetles.

"Take it for your Iduna," said Freydisa, "since it is for her sake
that we break in upon this great man's rest."

I seized the precious thing and tugged at it, but the chain was stout
and would not part. Again I tugged, and now it was the neck of the
Wanderer that broke, for the head rolled from the body, and the gold
chain came loose between the two.

"Let us be going," said Freydisa, as I hid away the necklace. "The oil
in the lamps burns low, and even I do not care to be left here in the
dark with this mighty one whom we have robbed."

"There's his armour," I said. "I'd have that armour; it is wonderful."

"Then stop and get it by yourself," she answered, "for my lamp dies."

"At least, I will take the sword," I exclaimed, and snatched at the
belt by which it was girt about the body. The leather had rotted, and
it came away in my hand.

Holding it, I clambered over the stone after Freydisa, and followed
her down the passage. Before we reached the end of it the lamps went
out, so that we must finish our journey in the dark. Thankful enough
were both of us when we found ourselves safe in the open air beneath
the familiar stars.

"Now, how comes it, Freydisa," I asked, when we had got our breath
again, "that this Wanderer, who showed himself so threateningly upon
the crest of his grave, lies patient as a dead sheep within it while
we rob his bones?"

"Because we were meant to take it, as I think, Olaf. Now, help me to
fill in the mouth of that hole roughly--I will return to finish this
to-morrow--and let us away to the hall. I am weary, and I tell you,
Olaf, that the weight of things to come lies heavy on my soul. I think
wisdom dwells with that Wanderer's bones. Yes, and foresight of the
future and memories of the past."



                              CHAPTER IV

                       IDUNA WEARS THE NECKLACE

I lay sleeping in my bed at Aar, the sword of the Wanderer by my side
and his necklace beneath my pillow. In my sleep there came to me a
very strange and vivid dream. I dreamed that I was the Wanderer, no
other man, and here I, who write this history in these modern days,
will say that the dream was true.

Once in the far past I, who afterwards was born as Olaf, and who am
now--well, never mind my name--lived in the shape of that man who in
Olaf's time was by tradition known as the Wanderer. Of that Wanderer
life, however, for some reason which I cannot explain, I am able to
recover but few memories. Other earlier lives come back to me much
more clearly, but at present the details of this particular existence
escape me. For the purpose of the history which I am setting down this
matters little, since, although I know enough to be sure that the
persons concerned in the Olaf life were for the most part the same as
those concerned in the Wanderer life, their stories remain quite
distinct.

Therefore, I propose to leave that of the Wanderer, so far as I know
it, untold, wild and romantic as it seems to have been. For he must
have been a great man, this Wanderer, who in the early ages of the
northern world, drawn by the magnet of some previous Egyptian
incarnation, broke back to those southern lands with which his
informing spirit was already so familiar, and thence won home again to
the place where he was born, only to die. In considering this dream
which Olaf dreamed, let it be remembered, then, that although a
thousand, or maybe fifteen hundred, of our earthly years separated us
from each other, the Wanderer, into whose tomb I broke at the goading
of Iduna, and I, Olaf, were really the same being clothed in different
shapes of flesh.

To return to my dream. I, Olaf, or, rather, my spirit, dwelling in the
Wanderer's body, that body which I had just seen lying in the grave,
stood at night in a great columned building, which I knew to be the
temple of some god. At my feet lay a basin of clear water; the
moonlight, which was almost as bright as that of day, showed me my
reflection in the water. It was like to that of the Wanderer as I had
seen him lying in his oak coffin in the mound, only younger than he
had seemed to be in the coffin. Moreover, he wore the same armour that
the man in the coffin wore, and at his side hung the red, cross-
handled sword. There he stood in the temple alone, and looked across a
plain, green with crops, on which sat two mighty images as high as
tall pines, looked to a great river on whose banks grew trees such as
I had never beheld: tall, straight trees, surmounted by a stiff crown
of leaves. Beyond this river lay a white, flat-roofed city, and in it
were other great columned temples.

The man in whom I, Olaf the Dane, seemed to dwell in my dream turned,
and behind him saw a range of naked hills of brown rock, and in them
the mouth of a desolate valley where was no green thing. Presently he
became aware that he was no longer alone. At his side stood a woman.
She was a very beautiful woman, unlike anyone I, Olaf, had ever seen.
Her shape was tall and slender, her eyes were large, dark and soft as
a deer's, her features were small and straight, save the mouth, of
which the lips were somewhat full. The face, which was dark-hued, like
her hair and eyes, was sad, but wore a sweet and haunting smile. It
was much such a face as that upon the statue of the goddess which we
had found in the Wanderer's tomb, and the dress she wore beneath her
cloak was like to the dress of the goddess. She was speaking
earnestly.

"My love, my only love," she said, "you must begone this very night;
indeed, the boat awaits you that shall take you down the river to the
sea. All is discovered. My waiting-lady, the priestess, but now has
told me that my father, the king, purposes to seize and throw you into
prison to-morrow, and thereafter to put you on your trial for being
beloved by a daughter of the royal blood, of which, as you are a
foreign man, however noble you may be, the punishment is death.
Moreover, if you are condemned, your doom will be my own. There is but
one way in which to save my life, and that is by your flight, for if
you fly it has been whispered to me that all will be forgotten."

Now, in my dream, he who wore the Wanderer's shape reasoned with her,
saying at length that it was better they both should die, to live on
in the world of spirits, rather than part for ever. She hid her face
on his breast and answered,

"I cannot die. I would stay to look upon the sun, not for my own sake,
but because of our child that will be born. Nor can I fly with you,
since then your boat will be stopped. But if you go alone, the guards
will let it pass. They have their commands."

After this for a while they wept in each other's arms, for their
hearts were broken.

"Give me some token," he murmured; "let me wear something that you
have worn until my death."

She opened her cloak, and there upon her breast hung that necklace
which had lain upon the breast of the Wanderer in his tomb, the
necklace of gold and inlaid shells and emerald beetles, only there
were two rows of shells and emeralds, not one. One row she unclasped
and clasped it again round his neck, breaking the little gold threads
that bound the two strands together.

"Take this," she said, "and I will wear the half which is left of it
even in my grave, as you also shall wear your half in life and death.
Now something comes upon me. It is that when the severed parts of this
necklace are once more joined together, then we two shall meet again
upon the earth."

"What chance is there that I shall return from my northern home, if
ever I win so far, back to this southern land?"

"None," she answered. "In this life we shall kiss no more. Yet there
are other lives to come, or so I think and have learned through the
wisdom of my people. Begone, begone, ere my heart breaks on yours; but
never let this necklace of mine, which was that of those who were long
before me, lie upon another woman's breast, for if so it will bring
sorrow to the giver, and to her to whom it is given no good fortune."

"How long must I wait before we meet again?" he asked.

"I do not know, but I think that when all that jewel once more grows
warm above my immoral heart, this temple which they call eternal will
be but a time-eaten ruin. Hark, the priestess calls. Farewell, you man
who have come out of the north to be my glory and my shame. Farewell,
until the purpose of our lives declares itself and the seed that we
have sown in sorrow shall blossom into an everlasting flower.
Farewell. Farewell!"

Then a woman appeared in the background beckoning, and all my dream
vanished away. Yet to my mind came the thought that it was to the lady
who gave the necklace that Death stood near, rather than to him to
whom it was given. For surely death was written in her sad and longing
eyes.



So that dream ended. When I, Olaf, awoke in the morning, it was to
find that already everyone was astir, for I had overslept myself. In
the hall were gathered Ragnar, Steinar, Iduna and Freydisa; the elders
were talking together elsewhere on the subject of the forthcoming
marriage. I went to Iduna to embrace her, and she proffered me her
cheek, speaking all the while over her shoulder to Ragnar.

"Where were you last night, brother, that you came in near the dawn,
all covered with mud?" asked Ragnar, turning his back on Iduna,
without making any answer to her words.

"Digging in the Wanderer's grave, brother, as Iduna challenged me to
do."

Now all three of them turned on me eagerly, save Freydisa, who stood
by the fire listening, and with one voice asked if I had found
anything.

"Aye," I replied. "I found the Wanderer, a very noble-looking man,"
and I began to describe him.

"Peace to this dead Wanderer," broke in Iduna. "Did you find the
necklace?"

"Yes, I found the necklace. Here it is!" And I laid the splendid thing
upon the board.

Then suddenly I lost my speech, since now for the first time I saw
that, twisted round the chain of it, were three broken wires of gold.
I remembered how in my dream I had seen the beautiful woman break such
wires ere she gave half of the jewel to the man in whose breast I had
seemed to dwell, and for a moment grew so frightened that I could say
no more.

"Oh!" exclaimed Iduna, "it is beautiful, beautiful! Oh! Olaf, I thank
you," and she flung her arms about me and kissed me, this time in
earnest.

Then she seized the necklace and fastened it round her throat.

"Stay," I said, awaking. "I think you had best not touch those gems.
Iduna, I have dreamed that they will bring no luck to you or to any
woman, save one."

Here the dark-faced Freydisa looked up at me, then dropped her eyes
again, and stood listening.

"You have dreamed!" exclaimed Iduna. "I care little what you have
dreamed. It is for the necklace I care, and not all the ill-luck in
the world shall stay me from the keeping of it."

Here again Freydisa looked up, but Steinar looked down.

"Did you find aught else?" asked Ragnar, interrupting.

"Aye, brother, this!" and from under my cloak I produced the
Wanderer's sword.

"A wondrous weapon," said Ragnar when he had examined it, "though
somewhat heavy for its length, and of bronze, after the fashion of
those that are buried in the grave mounds. It has seen much wear also,
and, I should say, has loosed many a spirit. Look at the gold work of
the handle. Truly a wondrous weapon, worth all the necklaces in the
world. But tell us your story."

So I told them, and when I came to the images that we had found
standing on the coffin, Iduna, who was paying little heed, stopped
from her fondling of the necklace and asked where they were.

"Freydisa has them," I answered. "Show them the Wanderer's gods,
Freydisa."

"So Freydisa was with you, was she?" said Iduna.

Then she glanced at the gods, laughed a little at their fashion and
raiment, and again fell to fingering the necklace, which was more to
her than any gods.

Afterwards Freydisa asked me what was the dream of which I had spoken,
and I told it to her, every word.

"It is a strange story," said Freydisa. "What do you make of it,
Olaf?"

"Nothing save that it was a dream. And yet those three broken wires
that are twisted round the chain, which I had never noted till I saw
the necklace in Iduna's hand! They fit well with my dream."

"Aye, Olaf, and the dream fits well with other things. Have you ever
heard, Olaf, that there are those who say that men live more than once
upon this earth?"

"No," I answered, laughing. "Yet why should they not do so, as they
live at all? If so, perhaps I am that Wanderer, in whose body I seemed
to be, only then I am sure that the lady with the golden shells was
not Iduna." And again I laughed.

"No, Olaf, she was not Iduna, though perchance there was an Iduna, all
the same. Tell me, did you see aught of that priestess who was with
the lady?"

"Only that she was tall and dark, one of middle age. But why waste
words on this midnight madness? Yet that royal woman haunts me. I
would that I could see her again, if only in a dream. Also, Freydisa,
I would that Iduna had not taken the necklace. I fear lest it should
bring misfortune. Where is she now? I will tell her again."

"Wandering with Steinar, I think, and wearing the necklace. Oh! Olaf,
like you I fear it will bring woe. I cannot read your dream--as yet."



It was the day before that of my marriage. I see them moving about,
the shapes of all those long-forgotten men and women, arrayed in their
bravest garments and rude ornaments of gold and silver, for a great
company had been bidden, many of whom came from far. I see my uncle,
Leif, the dark-browed priest of Odin, passing between the hall and the
temple where on the morrow he must celebrate the marriage rites in
such a fashion as would do honour to the god. I see Iduna, Athalbrand
and Steinar talking together apart. I see myself watching all this
life and stir like one who is mazed, and I know that since I had
entered the Wanderer's grave all things had seemed unreal to me.
Iduna, whom I loved, was about to become my wife, and yet between me
and Iduna continually was thrust a vision of the woman of my dream. At
times I thought that the blow from the bear's paw had hurt my brain;
that I must be going mad. I prayed to the gods that this might not be
so, and when my prayers availed me nothing I sought the counsel of
Freydisa.

She listened to my story, then said briefly,

"Let be. Things will go as they are fated. You are no madder than the
rest of men. I can say no more."

It was the custom of that time and land that, if possible, the wife to
be should not pass the night before her marriage under the same roof
as her future husband. Therefore Athalbrand, whose mood had been
strange of late, went with Iduna to sleep in his beached ship. At my
request Steinar went with them, in order that he might see that they
were brought back in good time in the morning.

"You will not fail me in this, Steinar?" I said, clasping his hand.

He tried to answer something, but the words seemed to choke in his
throat and he turned away, leaving them unspoken.

"Why," I exclaimed, "one might think you were going to be married, not
I."

"Aye," broke in Iduna hurriedly. "The truth is that Steinar is jealous
of me. How is it that you can make us all love you so much, Olaf?"

"Would that I were more worthy of your love," I answered, smiling, "as
in years to come I hope to show myself."

Athalbrand, who was watching, tugged at his forked beard and muttered
something that sounded like an oath. Then he rode off, kicking his
horse savagely and not noting my outstretched hand, or so it seemed.
Of this, however, I took little heed, for I was engaged in kissing
Iduna in farewell.

"Be not sad," she said, as she kissed me back on the lips. "Remember
that we part for the last time." Again she kissed me and went,
laughing happily.

The morning came. All was prepared. From far and near the guests were
gathered, waiting to do honour to the marriage feast. Even some of the
men of Agger were there, who had come to pay homage to their new lord.
The spring sun shone brightly, as it should upon a marriage morn, and
without the doors the trumpeters blew blasts with their curved horns.
In the temple the altar of Odin was decorated with flowers, and by it,
also decorated with flowers, the offering awaited sacrifice. My
mother, in her finest robe, the same, in truth, in which she herself
had been wed, stood by the door of the hall, which was cleared of kine
and set with tables, giving and returning greetings. Her arm was round
me, who, as bridegroom, was clothed in new garments of woven wool
through which ran a purple streak, the best that could be made in all
the land. Ragnar came up.

"They should be here," he said. "The hour is over past."

"Doubtless the fair bride has been long in decking herself," answered
my father, looking at the sun. "She will come presently."

Still time went on, and the company began to murmur, while a strange,
cold fear seemed to grip my heart. At length a man was seen riding
towards the hall, and one cried,

"At last! Here comes the herald!"

Another answered: "For a messenger of love he rides slowly and sadly."
And a silence fell on all that heard him.

The man, a stranger to us, arrived and said:

"I have a message for the lord Thorvald from the lord Athalbrand,
which I was charged to deliver at this hour, neither before nor after.
It is that he sailed for Lesso at the rising of the moon last night,
there purposing to celebrate the marriage of his daughter, the lady
Iduna, with Steinar, lord of Agger, and is therefore grieved that he
and the lady Iduna cannot be present at your feast this day."

Now, when I heard these words I felt as though a spear had been thrust
through me. "Steinar! Oh! surely not with my brother Steinar," I
gasped, and staggered against the door-post, where I stood like one
who has been struck helpless.

Ragnar sprang at the messenger, and, dragging him from his horse,
would have killed him had not some stayed his hand. My father,
Thorvald, remained silent, but his half-brother, the dark-browed
priest of Odin, lifted his hands to heaven and called down the curse
of Odin upon the troth-breakers. The company drew swords and shouted
for vengeance, demanding to be led against the false Athalbrand. At
length my father called for silence.

"Athalbrand is a man without shame," he said. "Steinar is a viper whom
I have nursed in my breast, a viper that has bitten the hand which
saved him from death; aye, you men of Agger, you have a viper for your
lord. Iduna is a light-of-love upon whom all honest women should spit,
who has broken her oath and sold herself for Steinar's wealth and
rule. I swear by Thor that, with your help, my friends and neighbours,
I will be avenged upon all three of these. But for such vengeance
preparations must be made, since Athalbrand and Steinar are strong.
Moreover, they lie in an island, and can only be attacked by sea.
Further, there is no haste, since the mischief is done, and by now
Steinar the Snake and Iduna the Light-of-love will have drunk their
marriage-cup. Come, eat, my friends, and not too sadly, seeing that if
my house has suffered shame, it has escaped worse shame, that of
welcoming a false woman as a bride of one of us. Doubtless, when his
bitterness is past, Olaf, my son, will find a better wife."

So they sat down and ate the marriage feast. Only the seats of the
bride and bridegroom were empty, for I could not take part in that
feast, but went alone to my sleeping-place and drew the curtains. My
mother also was so overcome that she departed to her own chamber.
Alone I sat upon my bed and listened to the sounds of that marriage
feast, which more resembled such a one as is given at funerals. When
it was finished I heard my father and Ragnar and the head men and
chiefs of the company take counsel together, after which all departed
to their homes.

So soon as they were gone Freydisa came to me, bringing food and
drink.

"I am a shamed man, Freydisa," I said, "and can no longer stay in this
land where I have been made one for children to mock at."

"It is not you who are shamed," answered Freydisa hotly. "It is
Steinar and that----," and she used a harsh word of Iduna. "Oh! I saw
it coming, and yet I dared not warn you. I feared lest I might be
wrong and put doubts into your heart against your foster-brother and
your wife without cause. May Odin destroy them both!"

"Speak not so roughly, Freydisa," I said. "Ragnar was right about
Iduna. Her beauty never blinded him as it did me, and he read her
truly. Well, she did but follow her nature; and as for Steinar, she
fooled him as she has the power to do by any man, save Ragnar.
Doubtless he will repent bitterly ere all is done. Also I think that
necklace from the grave is an evil magic."

"It is like you, Olaf, to find excuse even for sin that cannot be
forgiven. Not but what I hold with you that Steinar has been led away
against his will, for I read it in his face. Well, his life must pay
the price of it, for surely he shall bleed on Odin's altar. Now, be a
man. Come out and face your trouble. You are not the first that a
woman has fooled, nor will you be the last. Forget love and dream of
vengeance."

"I cannot forget love, and I do not wish for vengeance, especially
against Steinar, who is my foster-brother," I answered wearily.



                              CHAPTER V

                        THE BATTLE ON THE SEA

On the morrow Thorvald, my father, sent messengers to the head men of
Agger, telling them of all that he and his House had suffered at the
hands of Steinar, whereof those of their folk who had been present at
the feast could bear witness. He added that if they stood by Steinar
in his wickedness and treachery, thenceforward he and the men of the
North would be their foes and work them mischief by land and sea.

In due course these messengers returned with the tale that the head
men of Agger had met together and deposed Steinar from his lordship
over them, electing another man, a nephew of Steinar's father. Also
they sent a present of gold rings in atonement for the wrong which had
been done to the house of Thorvald by one of their blood, and prayed
that Thorvald and the northern men would bear them no ill will for
that in which they were blameless.

Cheered by this answer, which halved the number of their foes, my
father, Thorvald of Aar, and those Over-men of whom he was the High-
lord, began to make their preparations to attack Athalbrand on his
Island of Lesso. Of all these things Athalbrand learned by his spies,
and later, when the warships were being prepared and manned, two
messengers came from him, old men of repute, and demanded to see my
father. This was the substance of his message, which was delivered in
my hearing.

That he, Athalbrand, was little to blame for what had happened, which
was due to the mad passions of two young people who had blinded and
misled him. That no marriage had taken place between Steinar and his
daughter, Iduna, as he was prepared and able to prove, since he had
refused to allow any such marriage. That, therefore, he was ready to
outlaw Steinar, who only dwelt with him as an unwelcome guest, and to
return his daughter, Iduna, to me, Olaf, and with her a fine in gold
rings as compensation for the wrong done, of which the amount was to
be ascertained by judges to be agreed upon.

My father entertained the messengers, but would give them no answer
till he had summoned a council of the Under-lords who stood with him
in this business. At that council, where I was present, some said that
the insult could only be washed out with blood. At length I was called
upon to speak as the man most concerned. While all listened I rose and
said:

"These are my words. After what has chanced, not for all the wealth in
Denmark would I take Iduna the Fair to be my wife. Let her stay with
Steinar, whom she has chosen. Still, I do not wish to cause the blood
of innocent men to be spent because of my private wrong. Neither do I
wish to wreak vengeance upon Steinar, who for many years was my
brother, and who has been led away by a woman, as may chance to any
one of us and has chanced to many. Therefore I say that my father
should accept Athalbrand's fine in satisfaction of the insult to our
House, and let all this matter be forgotten. As for myself, I purpose
to leave my home, where I have been put to shame, and to seek my
fortune in other lands."

Now, the most of those present thought this a wise saying and were
ready to abide by it. Yet, unluckily enough, it was made of no account
by what had slipped from my lips at its end. Although many held me
strange and fey, all men loved me because I had a kind heart and
gentleness, also because of the wrongs that I had suffered and for
something which they saw in me, which they believed would one day make
of me a great skald and a wise leader. When she heard me announce thus
publicly that I was determined to leave them, Thora, my mother,
whispered in the ears of Thorvald, my father, and Ragnar and others
also said to each other that this might not be. It was Ragnar, the
headlong, who sprang up and spoke the first.

"Is my brother to be driven from us and his home like a thrall caught
in theft because a traitor and a false woman have put him to shame?"
he said. "I say that I ask Athalbrand's blood to wash away that stain,
not his gold, and that if need be I will seek it alone and die upon
his spears. Also I say that if Olaf, my brother, turns his back upon
this vengeance, I name him niddering."

'No man shall name me that," I said, flushing, "and least of all
Ragnar."

So, amidst shouts, for there had been long peace in the land, and all
the fighting men sighed for battle, it was agreed that war should be
declared on Athalbrand, those present pledging themselves and their
dependents to follow it to the end.

"Go back to the troth-breaker, Athalbrand," said my father to the
messengers. "Tell him that we will not accept his fine of gold, who
come to take all his wealth, and with it his land and his life. Tell
him also that the young lord Olaf refuses his daughter, Iduna, since
it has not been the fashion of our House to wed with drabs. Tell
Steinar, the woman-thief, that he would do well to slay himself, or to
be sure that he is killed in battle, since if we take him living he
shall be cast into a pit of vipers or sacrificed to Odin, the god of
honour. Begone!"

"We go," answered the spokesman of the messengers; "yet before we go,
Thorvald, we would say to you that you and your folk are mad. Some
wrong has been done to your son, though perhaps not so much as you may
think. For that wrong full atonement has been offered, and with it the
hand of friendship on which you spit. Know then that the mighty lord
Athalbrand does not fear war, since for every man you can gather he
numbers two, all pledged to him until the death. Also he has consulted
the oracle, and its answer is that if you fight with him, but one of
your House will be left living."

"Begone!" thundered my father, "lest presently you should stay here
dead."

So they went.



That day my heart was very heavy, and I sought Freydisa to take
counsel with her.

"Trouble hovers over me like a croaking raven," I said. "I do not like
this war for a woman who is worth nothing, although she has hurt me
sorely. I fear the future, that it may prove even worse than the past
has been."

"Then come to learn it, Olaf, for what is known need no more be
feared."

"I am not so sure of that," I said. "But how can the future be
learned?"

"Through the voice of the god, Olaf. Am I not one of Odin's virgins,
who know something of the mysteries? Yonder in his temple mayhap he
will speak through me, if you dare to listen."

"Aye, I dare. I should like to hear the god speak, true words or
false."

"Then come and hear them, Olaf."

So we went up to the temple, and Freydisa, who had the right of entry,
unlocked its door. We passed in and lit a lamp in front of the seated
wooden image of Odin, that for unnumbered generations had rested there
behind the altar. I stood by the altar and Freydisa crouched herself
before the image, her forehead laid upon its feet, and muttered runes.
After a while she grew silent, and fear took hold of me. The place was
large, and the feeble light of the lamp scarcely reached to the arched
roof; all about me were great formless shadows. I felt that there were
two worlds, one of the flesh and one of the spirit, and that I stood
between the two. Freydisa seemed to go to sleep; I could no longer
hear her breathing. Then she sighed heavily and turned her head, and
by the light of the lamp I noted that her face was white and ghastly.

"What do you seek?" her lips asked, for I saw them moving. Yet the
voice that issued from them was not her own voice, but that of a deep-
throated man, who spoke with a strange accent.

Next came the answer in the voice of Freydisa.

"I, your virgin, seek to know the fate of him who stands by the altar,
one whom I love."

For a while there was quiet; then the first voice spoke, still through
the lips of Freydisa. Of this I was sure, for those of the statue
remained immovable. It was what it had always been--a thing of wood.

"Olaf, the son of Thorvald," said the deep voice, "is an enemy of us
the gods, as was his forefather whose grave he robbed. As his
forefather's fate was, so shall his be, for in both of them dwells the
same spirit. He shall worship that which is upon the hilt of the sword
he stole from the dead, and in this sign shall conquer, since it
prevails against us and makes our curse of none effect. Great sorrow
shall he taste, and great joy. He shall throw away a sceptre for a
woman's kiss, and yet gain a greater sceptre. Olaf, whom we curse,
shall be Olaf the Blessed. Yet in the end shall we prevail against his
flesh and that of those who cling to him preaching that which is upon
the sword but not with the sword, among whom thou shalt be numbered,
woman--thou, and another, who hast done him wrong."

The voice died away, and was followed by a silence so deep that at
length I could bear it no more.

"Ask of the war," I said, "and of what shall happen."

"It is too late," answered the voice of Freydisa. "I sought to know of
you, Olaf, and you alone, and now the spirit has left me."

Then came another long silence, after which Freydisa sighed thrice and
awoke. We went out of the temple, I bearing the lamp and she resting
on my arm. Near the door I turned and looked back, and it seemed to me
that the image of the god glared upon me wrathfully.

"What has chanced?" asked Freydisa when we stood beneath the light of
the friendly stars. "I know nothing; my mind is a blackness."

I told her word for word. When I had finished she said,

"Give me the Wanderer's sword."

I gave it to her, and she held it against the sky by the naked blade.

"The hilt is a cross," she said; "but how can a man worship a cross
and preach it and conquer thereby? I cannot interpret this rede, yet I
do not doubt but that it shall all come true, and that you, Olaf, and
I are doomed to be joined in the same fate, whatever it may be, and
with us some other who has wronged you, Steinar perchance, or Iduna
herself. Well, of this at least I am glad, for if I have loved the
father, I think that I love the son still more, though otherwise."
And, leaning forward, she kissed me solemnly upon the brow.



After Freydisa and I had sought the oracle of Odin, three long ships
of war sailed by the light of the moon from Fladstrand for
Athalbrand's Isle of Lesso. I do not know when we sailed, but in my
mind I can still see those ships creeping out to sea. In command of
the first was Thorvald, my father; of the second, Ragnar, my brother;
and of the third myself, Olaf; and on each of these ships were fifty
men, all of them stout fighters.

The parting with Thora, my mother, had been sad, for her heart
foreboded ill of this war, and her face could not hide what her heart
told her. Indeed, she wept bitterly, and cursed the name of Iduna the
Fair, who had brought this trouble on her House. Freydisa was sad
also. Yet, watching her opportunity, she glided up to me just before I
embarked and whispered to me,

"Be of good cheer, for you will return, whoever is left behind."

"It will give me little comfort to return if certain others are left
behind," I answered. "Oh, that the folk had hearkened to me and made
peace!"

"Too late to talk of that now," said Freydisa, and we parted.

This was our plan: To sail for Lesso by the moonlight, and when the
moon went down to creep silently towards the shores of the island.
Then, just at the first break of dawn, we proposed to beach the ships
on a sandy strand we knew, and rush to attack Athalbrand's hall, which
we hoped to carry before men were well awake. It was a bold scheme and
one full of dangers, yet we trusted that its very boldness would cause
it to succeed, especially as we had put it about that, owing to the
unreadiness of our ships, no attack would be made until the coming of
the next moon.

Doubtless all might have gone well with us but for a strange chance.
As it happened, Athalbrand, a brave and skilful captain, who from his
youth had seen much war by sea and land, had a design of his own which
brought ours to nothing. It was that he and his people should sail to
Fladstrand, burn the ships of Thorvald, my father, that he knew were
fitting out upon the beach, which he hoped to find unguarded, or at
most only watched by a few men, and then return to Lesso before he
could be fallen upon. By ill luck he had chosen this very night for
his enterprise. So it came about that just as the moon was sinking our
watchmen caught sight of four other ships, which by the shields that
hung over their bulwarks they knew must be vessels of war, gliding
towards them over the quiet sea.

"Athalbrand comes to meet us!" cried one, and in a minute every man
was looking to his arms. There was no time for plans, since in that
low light and mist the vessels were almost bow to bow before we saw
each other. My father's ship ran in between two of Athalbrand's that
were sailing abreast, while mine and that of Ragnar found themselves
almost alongside of the others. On both sides the sails were let down,
for none had any thought of flight. Some rushed to the oars and got
enough of them out to work the ships. Others ran to the grappling
irons, and the rest began to shoot with their bows. Before one could
count two hundred from the time of sighting, the war cry of
"/Valhalla! Valhalla! Victory or Valhalla!/" broke upon the silence of
the night and the battle had begun.

It was a very fierce battle, and one that the gathering darkness made
more grim. Each ship fought without heed to the others, for as the
fray went on they drifted apart, grappled to their foes. My father,
Thorvald's, vessel fared the worst, since it had an enemy on either
bulwark. He boarded one and cleared it, losing many men. Then the crew
of the other rushed on to him as he regained his own ship. The end of
it was that my father and all his folk were killed, but only after
they had slain the most of their foes, for they died fighting very
bravely.

Between Ragnar's ship and that of Athalbrand himself the fray was more
even. Ragnar boarded Athalbrand and was driven back. Athalbrand
boarded Ragnar and was driven back. Then for the second time Ragnar
boarded Athalbrand with those men who were left to him. In the narrow
waist of Athalbrand's ship a mighty battle was fought, and here at
last Ragnar and Athalbrand found themselves face to face.

They hacked at each other with their axes, till at length Ragnar, with
a fearful blow, drove in Athalbrand's helmet and clove his skull in
two, so that he died. But even as he fell, a man, it may have been
friend or foe, for the moon was sinking and the darkness grew dense,
thrust a spear into Ragnar's back, and he was carried, dying, to his
own vessel by those who remained to him.

Then that fight ceased, for all Athalbrand's people were dead or
wounded to the death. Meanwhile, on the right, I was fighting the ship
that was commanded by Steinar, for it was fated that we two should be
thrown together. Here also the struggle was desperate. Steinar and his
company boarded at the prow, but I and my men, charging up both
boards, drove them back again. In that charge it is true that I, Olaf,
fighting madly, as was my wont when roused, killed three of the Lesso
folk with the Wanderer's sword. Still I see them falling one by one.
Followed by six of my people, I sprang on to the raised prow of
Steinar's ship. Just then the grapnels parted, and there we were left,
defending ourselves as best we could. My mates got their oars and once
more brought our boat alongside. Grapple they could not, because the
irons were lost. Therefore, in obedience to the order which I shouted
to them from the high prow of the enemy's ship, they began to hurl
their ballast stones into her, and thus stove out her bottom, so that
in the end she filled and sank.

Even while she was down the fray went on. Nearly all my people were
down; indeed but two remained to me when Steinar, not knowing who I
was, rushed up and, having lost his sword, gripped me round the
middle. We wrestled, but Steinar, who was the stronger, forced me back
to the bulwarks and so overboard. Into the sea we went together just
as the ship sank, drawing us down after her. When we rose Steinar was
senseless, but still clinging to me as I caught a rope that was thrown
to me with my right hand, to which the Wanderer's sword was hanging by
a leathern loop.

The end of it was that I and the senseless Steinar were both drawn
back to my own ship just as the darkness closed in.



An hour later came the dawn, showing a sad sight. My father,
Thorvald's, ship and one of Athalbrand's lay helpless, for all, or
nearly all, their crews were dead, while the other had drifted off and
was now half a mile away.

Ragnar's ship was still grappled to its foe. My own was perhaps in the
best case, for here over twenty men were left unhurt, and another ten
whose wounds were light. The rest were dead or dying.

I sat on a bench in the waist of the ship, and at my feet lay the man
who had been dragged from the sea with me. I thought that this man was
dead till the first red rays of dawn lit upon his face, whereon he sat
up, and I saw that he was Steinar.

"Thus we meet again, my brother," I said in a quiet voice. "Well,
Steinar, look upon your work." And I pointed to the dead and dying and
to the ships around, whence came the sound of groans.

Steinar stared at me and asked in a thick voice:

"Was it with you, Olaf, that I fell into the sea?"

"Even so, Steinar."

"I knew it not in the darkness, Olaf. If I had known, never would I
have lifted sword against you."

"What did that matter, Steinar, when you had already pierced my heart,
though not with a sword?"

At these words Steinar moaned aloud, then said:

"For the second time you have saved my life."

"Aye, Steinar; but who knows whether I can do so for a third time? Yet
take comfort, for if I may I will, for thus shall I be best avenged."

"A white vengeance," said Steinar. "Oh, this is not to be borne." And
drawing a knife he wore at his girdle, he strove to kill himself.

But I, who was watching, snatched it away, then gave an order.

"Bind this man and keep him safe. Also bring him drink and a cloak to
cover him."

"Best kill the dog," grumbled the captain, to whom I spoke.

"I kill that one who lays a finger on him," I replied.

Someone whispered into the captain's ear, whereon he nodded and
laughed savagely.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "I am a thickhead. I had forgotten Odin and his
sacrifice. Yes, yes, we'll keep the traitor safe."

So they bound Steinar to one of the benches and gave him ale and
covered him with a blood-stained cloak taken from a dead man.

I also drank of the ale and drew a cloak about me, for the air was
keen. Then I said,

"Let us go to the other ships and see what has chanced there."

They got out the oars and rowed to Ragnar's vessel, where we saw men
stirring.

"How went it with you?" I asked of one who stood upon the prow.

"Not so ill, Olaf," he answered. "We won, and but now, with the new
light, have finished the game. They are all quiet yonder," he added,
nodding at the vessel of Athalbrand, to which they were still
grappled.

"Where is Ragnar?" I asked.

"Come on board and see," answered the man.

A plank was thrust out and I ran across it, fear gripping at my heart.
Resting against the mast sat Ragnar, dying.

"Good morrow to you, Olaf," he gasped. "I am glad you live, that there
may be one left to sit at Aar."

"What do you mean, my brother?"

"I mean, Olaf, that our father, Thorvald, is dead. They called it to
us from yonder." And he pointed with his red sword to our father's
ship, that lay side by side with one of Athalbrand's. "Athalbrand is
dead, for I slew him, and ere the sun is well clear of the sea I also
shall be dead. Oh, weep not, Olaf; we have won a great fight, and I
travel to Valhalla with a glorious company of friends and foes, there
to await you. I say that had I lived to be old, never could I have
found a better death, who then at last might have died like a cow. Get
the ships to Fladstrand, Olaf, and gather more men to put all Lesso to
the sword. Give us good burial, Olaf, and build a great mound over us,
that we may stand thereon at moonrise and mock the men of Lesso as
they row past, till Valhalla is full and the world dies. Is Steinar
dead? Tell me that Steinar is dead, for then I'll speak with him
presently."

"No, Ragnar, I have taken Steinar captive."

"Captive! Why captive? Oh, I understand; that he may lie on Odin's
altar. Friends, swear to me that Steinar shall lie on Odin's altar,
Steinar, the bride-thief, Seiner the traitor. Swear it, for I do not
trust this brother of mine, who has woman's milk in his breasts. By
Thor, he might spare him if he had his way. Swear it, or I'll haunt
your beds o' nights and bring the other heroes with me. Swift now,
while my ears are open."

Then from both ships rose the cry of

"We swear! Fear not, Ragnar, we swear."

"That's well," said Ragnar. "Kiss me now, Olaf. Oh! what is it that I
see in your eyes? A new light, a strange light! Olaf, you are not one
of us. This time is not your time, nor this place your place. You
travel to the end by another road. Well, who knows? At that end we may
meet again. At least I love you."

Then he burst into a wild war song of blood and vengeance, and so
singing sank down and died.



Afterwards, with much labour, I and the men who were left roped
together our vessels, and to them those that we had captured, and when
a favouring wind arose, sailed back for Fladstrand. Here a multitude
awaited us, for a fishing-boat had brought tidings of the great sea
battle. Of the hundred and fifty men who had sailed in my father,
Thorvald's, ships sixty were dead and many others wounded, some of
them to death. Athalbrand's people had fared even worse, since those
of Thorvald had slain their wounded, only one of his vessels having
escaped back to Lesso, there to tell the people of that island and
Iduna all that had happened. Now it was a land of widows and orphans,
so that no man need go wooing there for long, and of Aar and the
country round the same song was sung. Indeed, for generations the folk
of those parts must have told of the battle of Lesso, when the chiefs,
Thorvald and Athalbrand, slew each other upon the seas at night
because of a quarrel about a woman who was known as Iduna the Fair.

On the sands of Fladstrand my mother, the lady Thora, waited with the
others, for she had moved thither before the sailing of the ships.
When mine, the first of them, was beached, I leapt from it, and
running to her, knelt down and kissed her hand.

"I see you, my son Olaf," she said, "but where are your father and
brother?"

"Yonder, mother," I answered, pointing to the ships, and could say no
more.

"Then why do they tarry, my son?"

"Alas! mother, because they sleep and will never wake again."

Now Thora wailed aloud and fell down senseless. Three days later she
died, for her heart, which was weak, could not bear this woe. Once
only did she speak before she died, and then it was to bless me and
pray that we might meet again, and to curse Iduna. Folk noted that of
Steinar she said nothing, either good or ill, although she knew that
he lived and was a prisoner.

Thus it came about that I, Olaf, was left alone in the world and
inherited the lordship of Aar and its subject lands. No one remained
save my dark-browed uncle, Leif, the priest of Odin, Freydisa, the
wise woman, my nurse, and Steinar, my captive foster-brother, who had
been the cause of all this war.

The dying words of Ragnar had been noised abroad. The priest of Odin
had laid them before the oracle of the gods, and this oracle declared
that they must be fulfilled without change.

So all the folk of that land met together at my bidding--yes, even the
women and the children. First we laid the dead in the largest of
Athalbrand's ships, his people and Athalbrand himself being set
undermost. Then on them we set the dead of Thorvald, Thorvald, my
father, and his son Ragnar, my brother, bound to the mast upon their
feet. This done, with great labour we dragged the ship on to high
ground, and above it built a mighty mound of earth. For twenty days we
toiled at the task, till at last it was finished and the dead were
hidden beneath it for ever. Then we separated to our homes and mourned
a while.

But Steinar was carried to the temple of Odin at Aar, and there kept
in the prison of the temple.



                              CHAPTER VI

                      HOW OLAF FOUGHT WITH ODIN

It was the eve of the Spring Feast of Odin. It comes back to me that
at this feast it was the custom to sacrifice some beast to Odin and to
lay flowers and other offerings upon the altars of certain other gods
that they might be pleased to grant a fruitful season. On this day,
however, the sacrifice was to be of no beast, but of a man--Steinar
the traitor.

That night I, Olaf, by the help of Freydisa, the priestess of the god,
won entrance to the dungeon where Steinar lay awaiting his doom. This
was not easy to do. Indeed, I remember that it was only after I had
sworn a great oath to Leif and the other priests that I would attempt
no rescue of the victim, nor aid him to escape from his prison, that I
was admitted there, while armed men stood without to see that I did
not break my word. For my love of Steinar was known, and in this
matter none trusted me.

That dungeon was a dreadful place. I see it now. In the floor of the
temple was a trap-door, which, when lifted, revealed a flight of
steps. At the foot of these steps was another massive door of oak,
bolted and barred. It was opened and closed behind me, who found
myself in a darksome den built of rough stone, to which air came only
through an opening in the roof, so small that not even a child could
pass it. In the far corner of this hole, bound to the wall by an iron
chain fastened round his middle, Steinar lay upon a bed of rushes,
while on a stool beside him stood food and water. When I entered,
bearing a lamp, Steinar sat up blinking his eyes, for the light,
feeble as it was, hurt them, and I saw that his face was white and
drawn, and the hand he held to shade his eyes was wasted. I looked at
him and my heart swelled with pity, so that I could not speak.

"Why have you come here, Olaf?" asked Steinar when he knew me. "Is it
to take my life? If so, never were you more welcome."

"No, Steinar, it is to bid you farewell, since to-morrow at the feast
you die, and I am helpless to save you. In all things else men will
obey me, but not in this."

"And would you save me if you could?"

"Aye, Steinar. Why not? Surely you must suffer enough with so much
blood and evil on your hands."

"Yes, I suffer enough, Olaf. So much that I shall be glad to die. But
if you are not come to kill me, then it is that you may scourge me
with your tongue."

"Not so, Steinar. It is as I have said, only to bid you farewell and
to ask you a question, if it pleases you to answer me. Why did you do
this thing which has brought about such misery and loss, which has
sent my father, my brother, and a host of brave men to the grave, and
with them my mother, whose breasts nursed you?"

"Is she dead also, Olaf? Oh! my cup is full." He hid his eyes in his
thin hands and sobbed, then went on: "Why did I do it? Olaf, I did not
do it, but some spirit that entered into me and made me mad--mad for
the lips of Iduna the Fair. Olaf, I would speak no ill of her, since
her sin is mine, but yet it is true that when I hung back she drew me
on, nor could I find the strength to say her nay. Do you pray the
gods, Olaf, that no woman may ever draw you on to such shame as mine.
Hearken now to the great reward that I have won. I was never wed to
Iduna, Olaf. Athalbrand would not suffer it till he was sure of the
matter of the lordship of Agger. Then, when he knew that this was gone
from me, he would suffer it still less, and Iduna herself seemed to
grow cold. In truth, I believe he thought of killing me and sending my
head as a present to your father Thorvald. But this Iduna forbade,
whether because she loved me or for other reasons, I cannot say. Olaf,
you know the rest."

"Aye, Steinar, I know the rest. Iduna is lost to me, and for that
perhaps I should thank you, although such a thrust as this leaves the
heart sore for life. My father, my mother, my brother--all are lost to
me, and you, too, who were as my twin, are about to be lost. Night has
you all, and with you a hundred other men, because of the madness that
was bred in you by the eyes of Iduna the Fair, who also is lost to
both of us. Steinar, I do not blame you, for I know yours was a
madness which, for their own ends, the gods send upon men, naming it
love. I forgive you, Steinar, if I have aught to forgive, and I tell
you, so weary am I of this world, which I feel holds little that is
good, that, if I might, I'd yield up my life instead of yours, and go
to seek the others, though I doubt whether I should find them, since I
think that our roads are different. Hark! the priests call me.
Steinar, there's no need to bid you to be brave, for who of our
Northern race is not? That's our one heritage: the courage of a bull.
Yet it seems to me that there are other sorts of courage which we
lack: to tread the dark ways of death with eyes fixed on things
gentler and better than we know. Pray to our gods, Steinar, since they
are the best we have to pray to, though dark and bloody in their ways;
pray that we may meet again, where priests and swords are not and
women work no ruin, where we may love as we once loved in childhood
and there is no more sin. Fare you well, my brother Steinar, yet not
for ever, for sure I am that here we did not begin and here we shall
not end. Oh! Steinar, Steinar, who could have dreamed that this would
be the last of all our happy fellowship?"

When I had spoken such words as these to him, I flung my arms about
him, and we embraced each other. Then that picture fades.



It was the hour of sacrifice. The victim lay bound upon the stone in
the presence of the statue of the god, but outside of the doors of the
little temple, that all who were gathered there might see the
offering.

The ceremonies were ended. Leif, the head priest, in his robe of
office, had prayed and drunk the cup before the god, dedicating to him
the blood that was about to fall, and narrating in a chant the crimes
for which it was offered up and all the tale of woe that these had
brought about. Then, in the midst of an utter silence, he drew the
sacrificial sword and held it to the lips of Odin that the god might
breathe upon it and make it holy.

It would seem that the god did breathe; at least, that side of the
sword which had been bright grew dull. Leif turned it to the people,
crying in the ancient words:

"Odin takes; who dare deny?"

All eyes were fixed upon him, standing in his black robe, and holding
aloft the gleaming sword that had grown dull. Yes, even the patient
eyes of Steinar, bound upon the stone.

Then it was that some spirit stirred in my heart which drove me on to
step between the priest and his prey. Standing in the doorway of the
chapel, a tall, young shape against the gloom behind, I said in a
steady voice:

"I dare deny!"

A gasp of wonderment went up from all who heard, and Steinar, lifting
himself a little from the stone, stared at me, shook his head as if in
dissent, then let it fall again, and listened.

"Hearken, friends," I said. "This man, my foster-brother, has
committed a sin against me and my House. My House is dead--I alone
remain; and on behalf of the dead and of myself I forgive him his sin,
which, indeed, was less his than another's. Is there any man among you
who at some time has not been led aside by woman, or who has not again
and again desired to be so led aside? If such a one there be, let him
say that he has no forgiveness in his heart for Steinar, the son of
Hakon. Let him come forward and say it."

None stirred; even the women drooped their heads and were silent.

"Then, if this is so," I went on, "and you can forgive, as I do, how
much more should a god forgive? What is a god? Is he not one greater
than man, who must know all the weakness of man, which, for his own
ends, he has bred into the flesh of man? How, then, can he do
otherwise than be pitiful to what he has created? If this be so, how
can the god refuse that which men are willing to grant, and what
sacrifice can please him better than the foregoing of his own
vengeance? Would a god wish to be outdone by a man? If I, Olaf, the
man can forgive, who have been wronged, how much more can Odin the god
forgive, who has suffered no wrong save that of the breaking of those
laws which will ever be broken by men who are as it has pleased him to
fashion them? On Odin's behalf, therefore, and speaking as he would
speak, could he have voice among us, I demand that you set this victim
free, leaving it to his own heart to punish him."

Now, some whom my simple words had touched, I suppose because there
was truth in them, although in those days and in that land none
understood such truths, and others, because they had known and loved
the open-handed Steinar, who would have given the cloak from his back
to the meanest of them, cried:

"Aye, let him go free. There has been enough of death through this
Iduna."

But more stood silent, lost in doubt at this new doctrine. Only Leif,
my uncle, did not stand silent. His dark face began to work as though
a devil possessed him, as, indeed, I think one did. His eyes rolled;
he champed his jaws like an angry hog, and screamed:

"Surely the lord Olaf is mad, for no sane man would talk thus. Man may
forgive while it is within his power; but this traitor has been
dedicated to Odin, and can a god forgive? Can a god spare when his
nostrils are opened for the smell of blood? If so, of what use is it
to be a god? How is he happier than a man if he must spare? Moreover,
would ye bring the curse of Odin upon you all? I say to you--steal his
sacrifice, and you yourselves shall be sacrificed, you, your wives,
your children, aye, and even your cattle and the fruit of your
fields."

When they heard this, the people groaned and shouted out:

"Let Steinar die! Kill him! Kill him that Odin may be fed!"

"Aye," answered Leif, "Steinar shall die. See, he dies!"

Then, with a leap like to that of a hungry wolf, he sprang upon the
bound man and slew him.

I see it now. The rude temple, the glaring statue of the god, the
gathered crowd, open mouthed and eyed, the spring sunshine shining
quietly over all, and, running past the place, a ewe calling to the
lamb that it had lost; I see the dying Steinar turn his white face,
and smile a farewell to me with his fading eyes; I see Leif getting to
his horrible rites that he might learn the omen, and lastly I see the
red sword of the Wanderer appear suddenly between me and him, and in
my hand. I think that my purpose was to cut him down. Only a thought
arose within me.

This priest was not to blame. He did no more than he had been taught.
Who taught him? The god he served, through whom he gained honour and
livelihood. So the god was to blame, the god that drank the blood of
men, as a thrall drinks ale, to satisfy his filthy appetite. Could
such a monster be a god? Nay, he must be a devil, and why should free
men serve devils? At least, I would not. I would cast him off, and let
him avenge himself upon me if he could. I, Olaf, would match myself
against this god--or devil.

I strode past Leif and the altar to where the statue of Odin sat
within the temple.

"Hearken!" I said in such a voice that all lifted their eyes from the
scene of butchery to me. "You believe in Odin, do you not?"

They answered "Aye."

"Then you believe that he can revenge himself upon one who rejects and
affronts him?"

"Aye," they answered again.

"If this be so," I went on, "will you swear to leave the matter
between Odin and me, Olaf, to be settled according to the law of
single combat, and give peace to the victor, with promise from all
harm save at the hands of his foe?"

"Aye," they answered, yet scarcely understanding what they said.

"Good!" I cried. "Now, God Odin, I, Olaf, a man, challenge you to
single combat. Strike you first, you, Odin, whom I name Devil and Wolf
of the skies, but no god. Strike you first, bloody murderer, and kill
me, if you can, who await your stroke!"

Then I folded my arms and stared at the statue's stony eyes, which
stared back at me, while all the people gasped.

For a full minute I waited thus, but all that happened was that a wren
settled on the head of Odin and twittered there, then flew off to its
nest in the thatch.

"Now," I cried, "you have had your turn, and mine comes."

I drew the Wanderer's sword, and sprang at Odin. My first stroke sunk
up to the hilt in his hollow belly; my next cut the sceptre from his
hand; my third--a great one--hewed the head from off him. It came
rattling down, and out of it crawled a viper, which reared itself up
and hissed. I set my heel upon the reptile's head and crushed it, and
slowly it writhed itself to death.

"Now, good folk," I cried, "what say you of your god Odin?"

They answered nothing, for all of them were in flight. Yes, even Leif
fled, cursing me over his shoulder as he went.

Presently I was alone with the dead Steinar and the shattered god, and
in that loneliness strange visions came to me, for I felt that I had
done a mighty deed, one that made me happy. Round the wall of the
temple crept a figure; it was that of Freydisa, whose face was white
and scared.

"You are a great man, Olaf," she said; "but how will it end?"

"I do not know," I answered. "I have done what my heart told me,
neither more nor less, and I bide the issue. Odin shall have his
chance, for here I stay till dark, and then, if I live, I leave this
land. Go, get me all the gold that is mine from the hall, and bring it
here to me by moonrise, and with it some garments and my armour. Bring
me also my best horse."

"You leave this land?" she said. "That means that you leave me, who
love you, to go forth as the Wanderer went--following a dream to the
South. Well, it is best that you should go, for whatever they have
promised you but now, it is sure that the priests will kill you, even
if you escape the vengeance of the god." And she looked askance at the
shattered statue which had sat in its place for so many generations
that none knew who had set it there, or when.

"I have killed the god," I answered, pointing to the crushed viper.

"Not quite, Olaf, for, see, its tail still moves."

Then she went, leaving me alone. I sat myself down by the murdered
Steinar, and stared at him. Could he be really dead, I wondered, or
did he live on elsewhere? My faith had taught me of a place called
Valhalla where brave men went, but in that faith and its gods I
believed no more. This Valhalla was but a child's tale, invented by a
bloody-minded folk who loved slaughter. Wherever Steinar and the
others were, it was not in Valhalla. Then, perhaps, they slept like
the beasts do after these have been butchered. Perhaps death was the
end of all. It might be so, and yet I did not believe it. There were
other gods besides Odin and his company, for what were those which we
had found in the Wanderer's tomb? I longed to know.

Yes, I would go south, as the Wanderer went, and search for them.
Perhaps there in the South I should learn the secret truth--and other
things.

I grew weary of these thoughts of gods who could not be found, or who,
if found, were but devils. My mind went back to my childhood's days,
when Steinar and I played together on the meads, before any woman had
come to wreck our lives. I remembered how we used to play until we
were weary, and how at nights I would tell him tales that I had
learned or woven, until at length we sank to sleep, our arms about
each other's necks. My heart grew full of sorrow that in the end broke
from my eyes in tears. Yes, I wept over Steinar, my brother Steinar,
and kissed his cold and gory lips.

The evening gathered, the twilight grew, and, one by one, the stars
sprang out in the quiet sky, till the moon appeared and gathered all
their radiance to herself. I heard the sound of a woman's dress, and
looked up, thinking to see Freydisa. But this woman was not Freydisa;
it was Iduna! Yes, Iduna's self!

I rose to my feet and stood still. She also stood still, on the
farther side of the stone of sacrifice whereon that which had been
Steinar was stretched between us. Then came a struggle of silence, in
which she won at last.

"Have you come to save him?" I asked. "If so, it is too late. Woman,
behold your work."

She shook her beautiful head and answered, almost in a whisper:

"Nay, Olaf, I am come to beg a boon of you: that you will slay me,
here and now."

"Am I a butcher--or a priest?" I muttered.

"Oh, slay me, slay me, Olaf!" she went on, throwing herself upon her
knees before me, and rending open her blue robe that her young breast
might take the sword. "Thus, perchance, I, who love life, may pay some
of the price of sin, who, if I slew myself, would but multiply the
debt, which in truth I dare not do."

Still I shook my head, and once more she spoke:

"Olaf, in this way or in that doubtless my end will find me, for, if
you refuse this office, there are others of sterner stuff. The knife
that smote Steinar is not blunted. Yet, before I die, who am come here
but to die, I pray you hear the truth, that my memory may be somewhat
less vile to you in the after years. Olaf, you think me the falsest of
the false, yet I am not altogether so. Hark you now! At the time that
Steinar sought me, some madness took him. So soon as we were alone
together, his first words were: 'I am bewitched. I love you.'

"Olaf, I'll not deny that his worship stirred my blood, for he was
goodly--well, and different to you, with your dreaming eyes and
thoughts that are too deep for me. And yet, by my breath, I swear that
I meant no harm. When we rode together to the ship, it was my purpose
to return upon the morrow and be made your wife. But there upon the
ship my father compelled me. It was his fancy that I should break with
you and be wed to Steinar, who had become so great a lord and who
pleased him better than you did, Olaf. And, as for Steinar--why, have
I not told you that he was mad for me?"

"Steinar's tale was otherwise, Iduna. He said that you went first, and
that he followed."

"Were those his words, Olaf? For, if so, how can I give the dead the
lie, and one who died through me? It seems unholy. Yet in this matter
Steinar had no reason left to him and, whether you believe me or no, I
tell the truth. Oh! hear me out, for who knows when they will come to
take me, who have walked into this nest of foes that I may be taken?
Pray as I would, the ship was run out, and we sailed for Lesso. There,
in my father's hall, upon my knees, I entreated him to hold his hand.
I told him what was true: that, of you twain, it was you I loved, not
Steinar. I told him that if he forced this marriage, war would come of
it that might mean all our deaths. But these things moved him nothing.
Then I told him that such a deed of shame would mean the loss of
Steinar's lordship, so that by it he would gain no profit. At last he
listened, for this touched him near. You know the rest. Thorvald, your
father, and Ragnar, who ever hated me, pressed on the war despite all
our offerings of peace. So the ships met, and Hela had her fill."

"Aye, Iduna, whatever else is false, this is true, that Hela had her
fill."

"Olaf, I have but one thing more to say. It is this: Only once did
those dead lips touch mine, and then it was against my will. Aye,
although it is shameful, you must learn the truth. My father held me,
Olaf, while I took the betrothal kiss, because I must. But, as you
know, there was no marriage."

"Aye, I know that," I said, "because Steinar told me so."

"And, save for that one kiss, Olaf, I am still the maid whom once you
loved so well."

Now I stared at her. Could this woman lie so blackly over dead
Steinar's corpse? When all was said and done, was it not possible that
she spoke the truth, and that we had been but playthings in the hands
of an evil Fate? Save for some trifling error, which might be forgiven
to one who, as she said, loved the worship that was her beauty's due,
what if she were innocent, after all?

Perhaps my face showed the thoughts that were passing through my mind.
At the least, she who knew me well found skill to read them. She crept
towards me, still on her knees; she cast her arms about me, and,
resting her weight upon me, drew herself to her feet.

"Olaf," she whispered, "I love you, I love you well, as I have always
done, though I may have erred a little, as women wayward and still
unwed are apt to do. Olaf, they told me yonder how you had matched
yourself against the god, with his priests for judges, and smitten
him, and I thought this the greatest deed that ever I have known. I
used to think you something of a weakling, Olaf, not in your body but
in your mind, one lost in music and in runes, who feared to put things
to the touch of war; but you have shown me otherwise. You slew the
bear; you overcame Steinar, who was so much stronger than you are, in
the battle of the ships; and now you have bearded Odin, the All-
father. Look, his head lies there, hewn off by you for the sake of one
who, after all, had done you wrong. Olaf, such a deed as that touches
a woman's heart, and he who does it is the man she would wish to lie
upon her breast and be her lord. Olaf, all this evil past may yet be
forgotten. We might go and live elsewhere for awhile, or always, for
with your wisdom and my beauty joined together what could we not
conquer? Olaf, I love you now as I have never loved before, cannot you
love me again?"

Her arms clung about me; her beautiful blue eyes, shimmering with
moonlit tears, held my eyes, and my heart melted beneath her breath as
winter snows melt in the winds of spring. She saw, she understood; she
cast herself upon me, shaking her long hair over both of us, and
seeking my lips. Almost she had found them, when, feeling something
hard between me and her, something that hurt me, I looked down. Her
cloak had slipped or been thrown aside, and my eye caught the glint of
gold and jewels. In an instant I remembered--the Wanderer's necklace
and the dream--and with those memories my heart froze again.

"Nay, Iduna," I said, "I loved you well; there's no man will ever love
you more, and you are very fair. Whether you speak true words or
false, I do not know; it is between you and your own spirit. But this
I do know: that betwixt us runs the river of Steinar's blood, aye, and
the blood of Thorvald, my father, of Thora, my mother, of Ragnar, my
brother, and of many another man who clung to us, and that is a stream
which I cannot cross. Find you another husband, Iduna the Fair, since
never will I call you wife."

She loosed her arms from round me, and, lifting them again, unclasped
the Wanderer's necklace from about her breast.

"This it is," she said, "which has brought all these evils on me. Take
it back again, and, when you find her, give it to that one for whom it
is meant, that one whom you love truly, as, whatever you may have
thought, you never have loved me."

Then she sank upon the ground, and resting her golden head upon dead
Steinar's breast, she wept.



I think it was then that Freydisa returned; at least, I recall her
tall form standing near the stone of sacrifice, gazing at us both, a
strange smile on her face.

"Have you withstood?" she said. "Then, truly, you are in the way of
victory and have less to fear from woman than I thought. All things
are ready as you commanded, my lord Olaf, and there remains but to say
farewell, which you had best do quickly, for they plot your death
yonder."

"Freydisa," I answered, "I go, but perchance I shall return again.
Meanwhile, all I have is yours, with this charge. Guard you yonder
woman, and see her safe to her home, or wherever she would go, and to
Steinar here give honourable burial."



Then the darkness of oblivion falls, and I remember no more save the
white face of Iduna, her brow stained with Steinar's life-blood,
watching me as I went.




                               BOOK II

                              BYZANTIUM



                              CHAPTER I

                     IRENE, EMPRESS OF THE EARTH

A gulf of blackness and the curtain lifts again upon a very different
Olaf from the young northern lord who parted from Iduna at the place
of sacrifice at Aar.

I see myself standing upon a terrace that overlooks a stretch of quiet
water, which I now know was the Bosphorus. Behind me are a great
palace and the lights of a vast city; in front, upon the sea and upon
the farther shore, are other lights. The moon shines bright above me,
and, having naught else to do, I study my reflection in my own
burnished shield. It shows a man of early middle life; he may be
thirty or five-and-thirty years of age; the same Olaf, yet much
changed. For now my frame is tall and well-knit, though still somewhat
slender; my face is bronzed by southern suns; I wear a short beard;
there is a scar across my cheek, got in some battle; my eyes are
quiet, and have lost the first liveliness of youth. I know that I am
the captain of the Northern Guard of the Empress Irene, widow of the
dead emperor, Leo the Fourth, and joint ruler of the Eastern Empire
with her young son, Constantine, the sixth of that name.

How I came to fill this place, however, I do not know. The story of my
journey from Jutland to Byzantium is lost to me. Doubtless it must
have taken years, and after these more years of humble service, before
I rose to be the captain of Irene's Northern Guard that she kept ever
about her person, because she would not trust her Grecian soldiers.

My armour was very rich, yet I noted about myself two things that were
with me in my youth. One was the necklace of golden shells, divided
from each other by beetles of emeralds, that I had taken from the
Wanderer's grave at Aar, and the other the cross-hilted bronze sword
with which this same Wanderer had been girded in his grave. I know now
that because of this weapon, which was of a metal and shape strange to
that land, I had the byname of Olaf Red-Sword, and I know also that
none wished to feel the weight of this same ancient blade.

When I had finished looking at myself in the shield, I leaned upon the
parapet staring at the sea and wondering how the plains of Aar looked
that night beneath this selfsame moon, and whether Freydisa were dead
by now, and whom Iduna had married, and if she ever thought of me, or
if Steinar came to haunt her sleep.

So I mused, till presently I felt a light touch upon my shoulder, and
swung round to find myself face to face with the Empress Irene
herself.

"Augusta!" I said, saluting, for, as Empress, that was her Roman
title, even though she was a Greek.

"You guard me well, friend Olaf," she said, with a little laugh. "Why,
any enemy, and Christ knows I have plenty, could have cut you down
before ever you knew that he was there."

"Not so, Augusta," I answered, for I could speak their Greek tongue
well; "since at the end of the terrace the guards stand night and day,
men of my own blood who can be trusted. Nothing which does not fly
could gain this place save through your own chambers, that are also
guarded. It is not usual for any watch to be set here, still I came
myself in case the Empress might need me."

"That is kind of you, my Captain Olaf, and I think I do need you. At
least, I cannot sleep in this heat, and I am weary of the thoughts of
State, for many matters trouble me just now. Come, change my mind, if
you can, for if so I'll thank you. Tell me of yourself when you were
young. Why did you leave your northern home, where I've heard you were
a barbarian chief, and wander hither to Byzantium?"

"Because of a woman," I answered.

"Ah!" she said, clapping her hands; "I knew it. Tell me of this woman
whom you love."

"The story is short, Augusta. She bewitched my foster-brother, and
caused him to be sacrificed to the northern gods as a troth-breaker,
and I do not love her."

"You'd not admit it if you did, Olaf. Was she beautiful, well, say as
I am?"

I turned and looked at the Empress, studying her from head to foot.
She was shorter than Iduna by some inches, also older, and therefore
of a thicker build; but, being a fair Greek, her colour was much the
same, save that the eyes were darker. The mouth, too, was more hard.
For the rest, she was a royal-looking and lovely woman in the flower
of her age, and splendidly attired in robes broidered with gold, over
which she wore long strings of rounded pearls. Her rippling golden
hair was dressed in the old Greek fashion, tied in a simple knot
behind her head, and over it was thrown a light veil worked with
golden stars.

"Well, Captain Olaf," she said, "have you finished weighing my poor
looks against those of this northern girl in the scales of your
judgment? If so, which of us tips the beam?"

"Iduna was more beautiful than ever you can have been, Augusta," I
replied quietly.

She stared at me till her eyes grew quite round, then puckered up her
mouth as though to say something furious, and finally burst out
laughing.

"By every saint in Byzantium," she said, "or, rather, by their relics,
for of live ones there are none, you are the strangest man whom I have
known. Are you weary of life that you dare to say such a thing to me,
the Empress Irene?"

"Am I weary of life? Well, Augusta, on the whole I think I am. It
seems to me that death and after it may interest us more. For the
rest, you asked me a question, and, after the fashion of my people, I
answered it as truthfully as I could."

"By my head, you have said it again," she exclaimed. "Have you not
heard, most innocent Northman, that there are truths which should not
be mentioned and much less repeated?"

"I have heard many things in Byzantium, Augusta, but I pay no
attention to any of them--or, indeed, to little except my duty."

"Now that this, this--what's the girl's name?"

"Iduna the Fair," I said.

"----this Iduna has thrown you over, at which I am sure I do not
wonder, what mistresses have you in Byzantium, Olaf the Dane?"

"None at all," I answered. "Women are pleasant, but one may buy sweets
too dear, and all that ever I saw put together were not worth my
brother Steinar, who lost his life through one of them."

"Tell me, Captain Olaf, are you a secret member of this new society of
hermits of which they talk so much, who, if they see a woman, must
hold their faces in the sand for five minutes afterwards?"

"I never heard of them, Augusta."

"Are you a Christian?"

"No; I am considering that religion--or rather its followers."

"Are you a pagan, then?"

"No. I fought a duel with the god Odin, and cut his head off with this
sword, and that is why I left the North, where they worship Odin."

"Then what are you?" she said, stamping her foot in exasperation.

"I am the captain of your Imperial Majesty's private guard, a little
of a philosopher, and a fair poet in my own language, not in Greek.
Also, I can play the harp."

"You say 'not in Greek,' for fear lest I should ask you to write
verses to me, which, indeed, I shall never do, Olaf. A soldier, a
poet, a philosopher, a harpist, one who has renounced women! Now, why
have you renounced women, which is unnatural in a man who is not a
monk? It must be because you still love this Iduna, and hope to get
her some day."

I shook my head and answered,

"I might have done that long ago, Augusta."

"Then it must be because there is some other woman whom you wish to
gain. Why do you always wear that strange necklace?" she added
sharply. "Did it belong to this savage girl Iduna, as, from the look
of it, it might well have done?"

"Not so, Augusta. She took it for a while, and it brought sorrow on
her, as it will do on all women save one who may or may not live
to-day."

"Give it me. I have taken a fancy to it; it is unusual. Oh! fear not,
you shall receive its value."

"If you wish the necklace, Augusta, you must take the head as well;
and my counsel to you is that you do neither, since they will bring
you no good luck."

"In truth, Captain Olaf, you anger me with your riddles. What do you
mean about this necklace?"

"I mean, Augusta, that I took it from a very ancient grave----"

"That I can believe, for the jeweller who made it worked in old
Egypt," she interrupted.

"----and thereafter I dreamed a dream," I went on, "of the woman who
wears the other half of it. I have not seen her yet, but when I do I
shall know her at once."

"So!" she exclaimed, "did I not tell you that, east or west or north
or south, there /is/ some other woman?"

"There was once, Augusta, quite a thousand years ago or more, and
there may be again now, or a thousand years hence. That is what I am
trying to find out. You say the work is Egyptian. Augusta, at your
convenience, will you be pleased to make another captain in my place?
I would visit Egypt."

"If you leave Byzantium without express permission under my own hand--
not the Emperor's or anybody else's hand; mine, I say--and are caught,
your eyes shall be put out as a deserter!" she said savagely.

"As the Augusta pleases," I answered, saluting.

"Olaf," she went on in a more gentle voice, "you are clearly mad; but,
to tell truth, you are also a madman who pleases me, since I weary of
the rogues and lick-spittles who call themselves sane in Byzantium.
Why, there's not a man in all the city who would dare to speak to me
as you have spoken to-night, and like that breeze from the sea, it is
refreshing. Lend me that necklace, Olaf, till to-morrow morning. I
want to examine it in the lamplight, and I swear to you that I will
not take it from you or play you any tricks about it."

"Will you promise not to wear it, Augusta?"

"Of course. Is it likely that I should wish to wear it on my bare
breast after it has been rubbing against your soiled armour?"

Without another word I unhooked the necklace and handed it to her. She
ran to a little distance, and, with one of those swift movements that
were common to her, fastened it about her own neck. Then she returned,
and threw the great strings of pearls, which she had removed to make
place for it, over my head.

"Now have you found the woman of that dream, Olaf?" she asked, turning
herself about in the moonlight.

I shook my head and answered:

"Nay, Augusta; but I fear that /you/ have found misfortune. When it
comes, I pray you to remember that you promised not to wear the
necklace. Also that your soldier, Olaf, Thorvald's son, would have
given his life rather than that you should have done so, not for the
sake of any dream, but for your sake, Augusta, whom it is his business
to protect."

"Would, then, it were your business either to protect me a little
more, or a little less!" she exclaimed bitterly.

Having uttered this dark saying, she vanished from the terrace still
wearing the string of golden shells.



On the following morning the necklace was returned to me by Irene's
favourite lady, who smiled as she gave it to me. She was a dark-eyed,
witty, and able girl named Martina, who had been my friend for a long
while.

"The Augusta said that you were to examine this jewel to see that it
has not been changed."

"I never suggested that the Augusta was a thief," I replied,
"therefore it is unnecessary."

"She said also that I was to tell you, in case you should think that
it has been befouled by her wearing of it, that she has had it
carefully cleaned."

"That is thoughtful of her, Martina, for it needed washing. Now, will
you take the Augusta's pearls, which she left with me in error?"

"I have no orders to take any pearls, Captain Olaf, although I did
notice that two of the finest strings in the Empire are missing. Oh!
you great northern child," she added in a whisper, "keep the pearls,
they are a gift, and worth a prince's ransom; and take whatever else
you can get, and keep that too."[*]

[*] I have no further vision concerning these priceless pearls and do
    not know what became of them. Perhaps I was robbed of them during
    my imprisonment, or perhaps I gave them to Heliodore or to
    Martina. Where are they now, I wonder?--Editor.

Then, before I could answer her, she was gone.



For some weeks after this I saw no more of the Augusta, who appeared
to avoid me. One day, however, I was summoned to her presence in her
private apartments by the waiting-lady Martina, and went, to find her
alone, save for Martina. The first thing that I noticed was that she
wore about her neck an exact copy of the necklace of golden shells and
emerald beetles; further, that about her waist was a girdle and on her
wrist a bracelet of similar design. Pretending to see nothing, I
saluted and stood to attention.

"Captain," she began, "yonder"--and she waved her hand towards the
city, so that I could not fail to see the shell bracelet--"the uncles
of my son, the Emperor, lie in prison. Have you heard of the matter,
and, if so, what have you heard?"

"I have heard, Augusta, that the Emperor having been defeated by the
Bulgarians, some of the legions proposed to set his uncle, Nicephorus
--he who has been made a priest--upon the throne. I have heard further
that thereon the Emperor caused the Csar Nicephorus to be blinded,
and the tongues of the two other Csars and of their two brothers, the
/Nobilissimi/, to be slit."

"Do you think well of such a deed, Olaf?"

"Augusta," I answered, "in this city I make it my business not to
think, for if I did I should certainly go mad."

"Still, on this matter I command you to think, and to speak the truth
of your thoughts. No harm shall come to you, whatever they may be."

"Augusta, I obey you. I think that whoever did this wicked thing must
be a devil, either returned from that hell of which everyone is so
fond of talking here, or on the road thither."

"Oh! you think that, do you? So I was right when I told Martina that
there was only one honest opinion to be had in Constantinople and I
knew where to get it. Well, most severe and indignant judge, suppose I
tell you it was I who commanded that this deed should be done. Then
would you change your judgment?"

"Not so, Augusta. I should only think much worse of you than ever I
did before. If these great persons were traitors to the State, they
should have been executed. But to torment them, to take away the sight
of heaven and to bring them to the level of dumb beasts, all that
their actual blood may not be on the tormentors' hand--why, the act is
vile. So, at least, it would be held in those northern lands which you
are pleased to call barbarian."

Now Irene sprang from her seat and clapped her hands for joy.

"You hear what he says, Martina, and the Emperor shall hear it too;
aye, and so shall my ministers, Stauracius and Aetius, who supported
him in this matter. I alone withstood him; I prayed him for his soul's
sake to be merciful. He answered that he would no longer be governed
by a woman; that he knew how to safeguard his empire, and what
conscience should allow and what refuse. So, in spite of all my tears
and prayers, the vile deed was done, as I think for no good cause.
Well, it cannot be undone. Yet, Olaf, I fear that it may be added to,
and that these royal-born men may be foully murdered. Therefore, I put
you in charge of the prison where they lie. Here is the signed order.
Take with you what men you may think needful, and hold that place,
even should the Emperor himself command you to open. See also that the
prisoners within are cared for and have all they need, but do not
suffer them to escape."

I saluted and turned to go, when Irene called me back.

At that moment, too, in obedience to some sign which she made, Martina
left the chamber, looking at me oddly as she did so. I came and stood
before the Empress, who, I noted, seemed somewhat troubled, for her
breast heaved and her gaze was fixed upon the floor now. It was of
mosaic, and represented a heathen goddess talking to a young man, who
stood before her with his arms folded. The goddess was angry with the
man, and held in her left hand a dagger as though she would stab him,
although her right arm was stretched out to embrace him and her
attitude was one of pleading.

Irene lifted her head, and I saw that her fine eyes were filled with
tears.

"Olaf," she said, "I am in much trouble, and I know not where to find
a friend."

I smiled and answered:

"Need an Empress seek far for friends?"

"Aye, Olaf; farther than anyone who breathes. An Empress can find
flatterers and partisans, but not a single friend. Such love her only
for what she can give them. But, if fortune went against her, I say
that they would fall away like leaves from a tree in a winter frost,
so that she stood naked to every bitter blast of heaven. Yes, and then
would come the foe and root up that tree and burn it to give them
warmth and to celebrate their triumph. So I think, Olaf, it will be
with me before all is done. Even my son hates me, Olaf, my only child
for whose true welfare I strive night and day."

"I have heard as much, Augusta," I said.

"You have heard, like all the world. But what else of ill have you
heard of me, Olaf? Speak out, man; I'm here to learn the truth."

"I have heard that you are very ambitious, Augusta, and that you hate
your son as much as he hates you, because he is a rival to your power.
It is rumoured that you would be glad if he were dead and you left to
reign alone."

"Then a lie is rumoured, Olaf. Yet it is true that I am ambitious, who
see far and would build this tottering empire up afresh. Olaf, it is a
bitter thing to have begotten a fool."

"Then why do you not marry again and beget others, who might be no
fools, Augusta?" I asked bluntly.

"Ah! why?" she answered, flashing a curious glance upon me. "In truth,
I do not quite know why; but from no lack of suitors, since, were she
but a hideous hag, an empress would find these. Olaf, you may have
learned that I was not born in the purple. I was but a Greek girl of
good race, not even noble, to whom God gave a gift of beauty; and when
I was young I saw a man who took my fancy, also of old race, yet but a
merchant of fruits which they grow in Greece and sell here and at
Rome. I wished to marry him, but my mother, a far-seeing woman, said
that such beauty as mine--though less than that of your Iduna the
Fair, Olaf--was worth money or rank. So they sent away my merchant of
fruits, who married the daughter of another merchant of fruits and
throve very well in business. He came to see me some years ago, fat as
a tub, his face scored all over with the marks of the spotted
sickness, and we talked about old times. I gave him a concession to
import dried fruits into Byzantium--that is what he came to see me for
--and now he's dead. Well, my mother was right, for afterwards this
poor beauty of mine took the fancy of the late Emperor, and, being
very pious, he married me. So the Greek girl, by the will of God,
became Augusta and the first woman in the world."

"By the will of God?" I repeated.

"Aye, I suppose so, or else all is raw chance. At least, I, who to-day
might have been bargaining over dried fruits, as I should have done
had I won my will, am--what you know. Look at this robe," and she
spread her glittering dress before me. "Hark to the tramp of those
guards before my door. Why, you are their captain. Go into the
antechambers, and see the ambassadors waiting there in the hope of a
word with the Ruler of the Earth! Look at my legions mustered on the
drilling-grounds, and understand how great the Grecian girl has grown
by virtue of the face which is less beauteous than that of--Iduna the
Fair!"

"I understand all this, Augusta," I answered. "Yet it would seem that
you are not happy. Did you not tell me just now that you could not
find a friend and that you had begotten a fool?"

"Happy, Olaf? Why, I am wretched, so wretched that often I think the
hell of which the priests preach is here on earth, and that I dwell in
its hottest fires. Unless love hides it, what happiness is there in
this life of ours, which must end in blackest death?"

"Love has its miseries also, Augusta. That I know, for once I loved."

"Aye, but then the love was not true, for this is the greatest curse
of all--to love and not to be beloved. For the sake of a perfect love,
if it could be won--why, I'd sacrifice even my ambition."

"Then you must keep your ambition, Augusta, since in this world you'll
find nothing perfect."

"Olaf, I'm not so sure. Thoughts have come to me. Olaf, I told you
that I have no friend in all this glittering Court. Will you be my
friend?"

"I am your honest servant, Augusta, and I think that such a one is the
best of friends."

"That's so; and yet no man can be true friend to a woman unless he is
--more than friend. Nature has writ it so."

"I do not understand," I answered.

"You mean that you will not understand, and perhaps you are wise. Why
do you stare at that pavement? There's a story written on it. The old
goddess of my people, Aphrodite, loved a certain Adonis--so runs the
fable--but he loved not her, and thought only of his sports. Look, she
woos him there, and he rejects her, and in her rage she stabs him."

"Not so," I answered. "Of the end of the story I know nothing, but, if
she had meant to kill him, the dagger would be in her right hand, not
in her left."

"That's true, Olaf; and in the end it was Fate which killed him, not
the goddess whom he had scorned. And yet, Olaf, it is not wise to
scorn goddesses. Oh! of what do I talk? You'll befriend me, will you
not?"

"Aye, Augusta, to the last drop of my blood, as is my duty. Do I not
take your pay?"

"Then thus I seal our friendship and here's an earnest of the pay,"
Irene said slowly, and, bending forward, she kissed me on the lips.

At this moment the doors of the chamber were thrown open. Through
them, preceded by heralds, that at once drew back again, entered the
great minister Stauracius, a fat, oily-faced man with a cunning eye,
who announced in a high, thin voice,

"The ambassadors of the Persians wait upon you, Augusta, as you
appointed at this hour."



                              CHAPTER II

                           THE BLIND CSAR

Irene turned upon the eunuch as a she-lion turns upon some hunter that
disturbs it from its prey. Noting the anger in her eyes, he fell back
and prostrated himself. Thereupon she spoke to me as though his entry
had interrupted her words.

"Those are the orders, Captain Olaf. See that you forget none of them.
Even if this proud eunuch, who dares to appear before me unannounced,
bids you to do so, I shall hold you to account. To-day I leave the
city for a while for the Baths whither I am sent. You must not
accompany me because of the duty I have laid upon you here. When I
return, be sure I'll summon you," and, knowing that Stauracius could
not see her from where he lay, for a moment she let her splendid eyes
meet my own. In them there was a message I could not mistake.

"The Augusta shall be obeyed," I answered, saluting. "May the Augusta
return in health and glory and more beautiful than----"

"Iduna the Fair!" she broke in. "Captain, you are dismissed."

Again I saluted, retreating from the presence backwards and staying to
bow at each third step, as was the custom. The process was somewhat
long, and as I reached the door I heard her say to Stauracius,

"Hearken, you dog. If ever you dare to break in upon me thus again,
you shall lose two things--your office and your head. What! May I not
give secret orders to my trusted officer and not be spied upon by you?
Now, cease your grovellings and lead in these Persians, as you have
been bribed to do."

Passing through the silk-clad, bejewelled Persians who waited in an
antechamber with their slaves and gifts, I gained the great terrace of
the palace which looked upon the sea. Here I found Martina leaning on
the parapet.

"Have you more of the Augusta's pearls about you, Olaf?" she asked
mockingly, speaking over her shoulder.

"Not I, Martina," I answered, halting beside her.

"Indeed. I could have sworn otherwise, for they are perfumed, and I
seemed to catch their odour. When did you begin to use the royal scent
upon that yellow beard of yours, Olaf? If any of us women did so, it
would mean blows and exile; but perchance a captain of the guard may
be forgiven."

"I use no scents, girl, as you know well. Yet it is true that these
rooms reek of them, and they cling to armour."

"Yes, and still more to hair. Well, what gift had my mistress for you
to-day?"

"A commission to guard certain prisoners, Martina."

"Ah! Have you read it yet? When you do, I think you'll find that it
names you Governor of the jail, which is a high office, carrying much
pay and place. You are in good favour, Olaf, and I hope that when you
come to greatness you will not forget Martina. It was I who put it
into a certain mind to give you this commission as the only man that
could be trusted in the Court."

"I do not forget a friend, Martina," I answered.

"That is your reputation, Olaf. Oh! what a road is opening to your
feet. Yet I doubt you'll not walk it, being too honest; or, if you do,
that it will lead you--not to glory, but a grave."

"Mayhap, Martina, and to speak truth, a grave is the only quiet place
in Constantinople. Mayhap, too, it hides the only real glory."

"That's what we Christians say. It would be strange if you, who are
not a Christian, alone should believe and keep the saying. Oh!" She
went on with passion, "we are but shams and liars, whom God must hate.
Well, I go to make ready for this journey to the Baths."

"How long do you stay there?" I asked.

"The course of waters takes a month. Less than that time does not
serve to clear the Augusta's skin and restore her shape to the lines
of youth which it begins to need, though doubtless you do not think
so. You were named to come as her officer of the Person; but, Olaf,
this other business rose up of a new governor for the jail in which
the Csars and /Nobilissimi/ are confined. I saw a chance for you in
it, who, although you have served all these years, have had no real
advancement, and mentioned your name, at which the Augusta leapt. To
tell the truth, Olaf, I was not sure that you would wish to be captain
of the guard at the Baths. Was I right or was I wrong?"

"I think you were right, Martina. Baths are idle places where folk
drift into trouble, and I follow duty. Martina--may I say it to you?--
you are a good woman and a kind. I pray that those gods of yours whom
you worship may bless you."

"You pray in vain, Olaf, for that they will never do. Indeed, I think
that they have cursed me."

Then suddenly she burst into tears, and, turning, went away.

I, too, went away somewhat bewildered, for much had happened to me
that morning which I found it hard to understand. Why had the Augusta
kissed me? I took it that this was some kind of imperial jest. It was
known that I kept aloof from women, and she may have desired to see
what I should do when an Augusta kissed me, and then to make a mock of
me. I had heard that she had done as much with others.

Well, let that be, since Stauracius, who always feared lest a new
favourite should slip between him and power, had settled the matter
for me, for which I blessed Stauracius, although at the moment, being
but a man, I had cursed him. And now why did Martina--the little, dark
Martina with the kind face and the watchful, beady eyes, like to those
of a robin in our northern lands--speak as she had done, and then
burst into tears?

A doubt struck me, but I, who was never vain, pushed it aside. I did
not understand, and of what use was it to try to interpret the meaning
of the moods of women? My business was war, or, at the moment, the
service that has to do with war, not women. Wars had brought me to the
rank I held, though, strangely enough, of those wars I can recall
nothing now; they have vanished from my vision. To wars also I looked
to advance me in the future, who was no courtier, but a soldier, whom
circumstances had brought to Court. Well, thanks to Martina, as she
said, or to some caprice of the Empress, I had a new commission that
was of more worth to me than her random kisses, and I would go to read
it.

Read it I did in the little private room upon the palace wall which
was mine as captain of the Augusta's guard, though, being written in
Greek, I found this difficult. Martina had spoken truly. I was made
the Governor of the State prison, with all authority, including that
of life and death should emergency arise. Moreover, this governorship
gave me the rank of a general, with a general's pay, also such
pickings as I chose to take. In short, from captain of the guard,
suddenly I had become a great man in Constantinople, one with whom
even Stauracius and others like him would have to reckon, especially
as his signature appeared upon the commission beneath that of the
Empress.

Whilst I was wondering what I should do next, a trumpet blew upon the
ramparts, and a Northman of my company entered, saluted and said that
I was summoned. I went out, and there before me stood a dazzling band
that bowed humbly to me, whom yesterday they would have passed without
notice. Their captain, a smooth-faced Greek, came forward, and,
addressing me as "General," said the imperial orders were that he was
to escort me to the State jail.

"For what purpose?" I asked, since it came to my mind that Irene might
have changed her fancy and issued another kind of commission.

"As its General and Governor, Illustrious," he replied.

"Then I will lead," I answered, "do you follow behind me."

Thus that vision ends.



In the next I see myself dwelling in some stately apartments that
formed the antechambers to the great prison. This prison, which was
situated not far from the Forum of Constantine, covered a large area
of ground, which included a garden where the prisoners were allowed to
walk. It was surrounded by a double wall, with an outer and an inner
moat, the outer dry, and the inner filled with water. There were
double gates also, and by them guard-towers. Moreover, I see a little
yard, with posts in it, where prisoners were scourged, and a small and
horrible room, furnished with a kind of wooden bed, to which they were
bound for the punishment of the putting out of their eyes and the
slitting of their tongues. In front of this room was a block where
those condemned to death were sometimes executed.

There were many prisoners, not common felons, but people who had been
taken for reasons of State or sometimes of religion. Perhaps in all
they numbered a hundred men, and with them a few women, who had a
quarter to themselves. Besides the jailers, three-score guards were
stationed there night and day, and of all of these I was in command.

Before I had held my office three days I found that Irene had
appointed me to it with good reason. It happened thus. The most of the
prisoners were allowed to receive presents of food and other things
sent to them by their friends. All these presents were supposed to be
inspected by the officer in charge of the prison. This rule, which had
been much neglected, I enforced again, with the result that I made
some strange discoveries.

Thus, on the third day, there came a magnificent offering of figs for
the Csars and /Nobilissimi/, the brothers-in-law of Irene and the
uncles of the young Emperor Constantine, her son. These figs were
being carried past me formally, when something about the appearance of
one of them excited my suspicion. I took it and offered it to the
jailer who carried the basket. He looked frightened, shook his head,
and said,

"General, I touch no fruit."

"Indeed," I answered. "That is strange, since I thought that I saw you
eating of it yesterday."

"Aye, General," he replied; "the truth is that I ate too much."

Making no answer, I went to the window, and threw the fig to a long-
tailed, tame monkey which was chained to a post in the yard without.
It caught it and ate greedily.

"Do not go away, friend," I said to the jailer, who was trying to
depart while my back was turned. "I have questions that I would ask
you."

So I spoke to him about other matters, and all the while watched the
monkey.

Soon I saw that it was ill at ease. It began to tear at its stomach
and to whimper like a child. Then it foamed at the mouth, was seized
with convulsions, and within a quarter of an hour by the water-clock
was dead.

"It would seem that those figs are poisoned, friend," I said, "and
therefore it is fortunate for you that you ate too much fruit
yesterday. Now, man, what do you know of this matter?"

"Nothing, sir," he answered, falling on his knees. "I swear to you by
Christ, nothing. Only I doubted. The fruits were brought by a woman
whom I thought that once I had seen in the household of the Augustus
Constantine, and I knew----" and he paused.

"Well, what did you know, man? It would be best to tell me quickly,
who have power here."

"I knew, sir, what all the world knows, that Constantine would be rid
of his uncles, whom he fears, though they are maimed. No more, I swear
it, no more."

"Perhaps before the Augusta returns you may remember something more,"
I said. "Therefore, I will not judge your case at present. Ho! guard,
come hither."

As he heard the soldiers stirring without in answer to my summons, the
man, who was unarmed, looked about his desperately; then he sprang at
the fruit, and, seizing a fig, strove to thrust it into his mouth. But
I was too quick for him, and within a few seconds the soldiers had him
fast.

"Shut this man in a safe dungeon," I said. "Treat and feed him well,
but search him. See also that he does himself no harm and that none
speak with him. Then forget all this business."

"What charge must be entered in the book, General?" asked the officer,
saluting.

"A charge of stealing figs that belonged to the Csar Nicephorus and
his royal brethren," I answered, and looked through the window.

He followed my glance, saw the poor monkey lying dead, and started.

"All shall be done," he said, and the man was led away.

When he had gone, I sent for the physician of the jail, whom I knew to
be trustworthy, since I had appointed him myself. Without telling him
anything, I bade him examine and preserve the figs, and also dissect
the body of the monkey to discover why it died.

He bowed and went away with the fruit. A while later he returned, and
showed me an open fig. In the heart of it was a pinch of white powder.

"What is it?" I asked.

"The deadliest poison that is known, General. See, the stalk has been
drawn out, the powder blown in through a straw, and then the stalk
replaced."

"Ah!" I said, "that is clever, but not quite clever enough. They have
mixed the stalks. I noted that the purple fig had the stalk of a green
fig, and that is why I tried it on the monkey."

"You observe well, General."

"Yes, Physician, I observe. I learned that when, as a lad, I hunted
game in the far North. Also I learned to keep silent, since noise
frightens game. Do you as much."

"Have no fear," he answered; and went about his business with the dead
monkey.

When he had gone I thought a while. Then I rose, and went to the
chapel of the prison, or, rather, to a place whence I could see those
in the chapel without being seen. This chapel was situated in a gloomy
crypt, lighted only with oil lamps that hung from the massive pillars
and arches. The day was the Sabbath of the Christians, and when I
entered the little secret hollow in the walls, the sacrament was being
administered to certain of the prisoners.

Truly it was a sad sight, for the ministering priest was none other
than the Csar Nicephorus, the eldest of the Emperor's uncles, who had
been first ordained in order that he might be unfit to sit upon the
throne, and afterwards blinded, as I have told. He was a tall, pale
man, with an uncertain mouth and a little pointed chin, apparently
between forty and fifty years of age, and his face was made dreadful
by two red hollows where the eyes should have been. Yet,
notwithstanding this disfigurement, and his tonsured crown, and the
broidered priest's robes which hung upon him awkwardly, as he stumbled
through the words of his office, to this poor victim there still
seemed to cling some air of royal birth and bearing. Being blind, he
could not see to administer the Element, and therefore his hand was
guided by one of his imperial brethren, who also had been made a
priest. The tongue of this priest had been slit, but now and again he
gibbered some direction into the ear of Nicephorus. By the altar,
watching all, sat a stern-faced monk, the confessor of the Csars and
of the /Nobilissimi/, who was put there to spy upon them.

I followed the rite to its end, observing these unhappy prisoners
seeking from the mystery of their faith the only consolation that
remained to them. Many of them were men innocent of any crime, save
that of adherence to some fallen cause, political or religious;
victims were they, not sinners, to be released by death alone. I
remember that, as the meaning of the scene came home to me, I recalled
the words of Irene, who had said that she believed this world to be a
hell, and found weight in them. At length, able to bear no more, I
left my hiding-place and went into the garden behind the chapel. Here,
at least, were natural things. Here flowers, tended by the prisoners,
bloomed as they might have done in some less accursed spot. Here the
free birds sang and nested in the trees, for what to them were the
high surrounding walls?

I sat myself down upon a seat in the shade. Presently, as I had
expected, Nicephorus, the priest-Csar, and his four brethren came
into the garden. Two of them led the blind man by the hand, and the
other two clung close to him, for all these unfortunates loved each
other dearly. The four with the split tongues gabbled in his ears. Now
and again, when he could catch or guess at the meaning of a word, he
answered the speaker gently; or the others, seeing that he had not
understood them aright, painfully tried to explain the error. Oh! it
was a piteous thing to see and hear. My gorge rose against the young
brute of an Emperor and his councillors who, for ambition's sake, had
wrought this horrible crime. Little did I know then that ere long
their fate would be his own, and that a mother's hand would deal it
out to him.

They caught sight of me seated beneath the tree, and chattered like
startled starlings, till at length Nicephorus understood.

"What say you, dear brothers?" he asked, "that the new governor of the
prison is seated yonder? Well, why should we fear him? He has been
here but a little while, yet he has shown himself very kind to us.
Moreover, he is a man of the North, no treacherous Greek, and the men
of the North are brave and upright. Once, when I was a free prince, I
had some of them in my service, and I loved them well. Our nephew, the
Emperor, offered a large sum to a Northman to blind or murder me, but
he would not do it, and was dismissed from the service of the Empire
because he spoke his mind and prayed his heathen gods to bring a like
fate upon Constantine himself. Lead me to this governor; I would talk
with him."

So they brought Nicephorus to me, though doubtfully, and when he was
near I rose from my seat and saluted him. Thereon they all gabbled
again with their split tongues, till at length he understood and
flushed with pleasure.

"General Olaf," he said to me, "I thank you for your courtesy to a
poor prisoner, forgotten by God and cruelly oppressed by man. General
Olaf, the promise is of little worth, but, if ever it should be in my
power, I will remember this kindness, which pleases me more than did
the shouting of the legions in the short day of my prosperity."

"Sir," I answered, "whatever happens I shall remember your words,
which are more to me than any honours kings can bestow. Now, sir, I
will ask your royal brethren to fall back, as I wish to speak with
you."

Nicephorus made a sign with his hand, and the four half-dumb men, all
of whom resembled him strangely, especially in the weakness of their
mouths and chins, obeyed. Bowing to me in a stately fashion, they
withdrew, leaving us alone.

"Sir," I said, "I would warn you that you have enemies whom you may
not suspect, for my duty here wherewith I was charged by the Augusta
is not to oppress but to protect you and your imperial brothers."

Then I told him the story of the poisoned figs.

When he had heard it, the tears welled from his hollow eyes and ran
down his pale cheeks.

"Constantine, my brother Leo's son, has done this," he said, "for
never will he rest until all of us are in the grave."

"He is cruel because he fears you, O Nicephorus, and it is said that
your ambition has given him cause to fear."

"Once, General, that was true," the prince replied. "Once, foolishly,
I did aspire to rule; but it is long ago. Now they have made a priest
of me, and I seek peace only. Can I and my brethren help it if,
mutilated though we are, some still wish to use us against the
Emperor? I tell you that Irene herself is at the back of them. She
would set us on high that afterwards she may throw us down and crush
us."

"I am her servant, Prince, and may not listen to such talk, who know
only that she seeks to protect you from your enemies, and for that
reason has placed me here, it seems not in vain. If you would continue
to live, I warn you and your brethren to fly from plots and to be
careful of what you eat and drink."

"I do not desire to live, General," he answered. "Oh! that I might
die. Would that I might die."

"Death is not difficult to find, Prince," I replied, and left him.

These may seem hard words, but, be it remembered, I was no Christian
then, but a heathen man. To see one who had been great and fallen from
his greatness, one whom Fortune had deserted utterly, whining at Fate
like a fretful child, and yet afraid to seek his freedom, moved me to
contempt as well as to pity. Therefore, I spoke the words.

Yet all the rest of that day they weighed upon my mind, for I knew
well how I should have interpreted them were I in this poor Csar's
place. So heavily did they weigh that, during the following night, an
impulse drew me from my bed and caused me to visit the cells in which
these princes were imprisoned. Four of them were dark and silent, but
in that of Nicephorus burned a light. I listened at the door, and
through the key-place heard that the prisoner within was praying, and
sobbing as he prayed.

Then I went away; but when I reached the end of the long passage
something drew me back again. It was as though a hand I could not see
were guiding me. I returned to the door of the cell, and now through
it heard choking sounds. Quickly I shot the bolts and unlocked it with
my master-key. This was what I saw within:

To a bar of the window-place was fastened such a rope as monks wear
for a girdle; at the end of the rope was a noose, and in that noose
the head of Nicephorus. There he hung, struggling. His hands had
gripped the rope above his head, for though he had sought Death, at
the last he tried to escape him. Of such stuff was Nicephorus made.
Yet it was too late, or would have been, for as I entered the place
his hands slipped from the thin cord, which tightened round his
throat, choking him.

My sword was at my side. Drawing it, with a blow I cut the rope and
caught him in my arms. Already he was swooning, but I poured water
over his face, and, as his neck remained unbroken, he recovered his
breath and senses.

"What play is this, Prince?" I asked.

"One that you taught me, General," he answered painfully. "You said
that death could be found. I went to seek him, but at the last I
feared. Oh! I tell you that when I thrust away that stool, my blind
eyes were opened, and I saw the fires of hell and the hands of devils
grasping at my soul to plunge it into them. Blessings be on you who
have saved me from those fires," and seizing my hand he kissed it.

"Do not thank me," I said, "but thank the God you worship, for I think
that He must have put it into my mind to visit you to-night. Now swear
to me by that God that you will attempt such a deed no more, for if
you will not swear then you must be fettered."

Then he swore so fervently by his Christ that I was sure he would
never break the oath. After he had sworn I told him how I could not
rest because of the strange fears which oppressed me.

"Oh!" he said, "without doubt it was God who sent His angel to you
that I might be saved from the most dreadful of all sins. Without
doubt it was God, Who knows you, although you do not know Him."

After this he fell upon his knees, and, having untied the cut rope
from the window bars, I left him.



Now I tell this story because it has to do with my own, for it was
these words of the Prince that first turned me to the study of the
Christian Faith. Indeed, had they never been spoken, I believe that I
should have lived and died a heathen man. Hitherto I had judged of
that Faith by the works of those who practised it in Constantinople,
and found it wanting. Now, however, I was sure that some Power from
above us had guided me to the chamber of Nicephorus in time to save
his life, me, who, had he died, in a sense would have been guilty of
his blood. For had he not been driven to the deed by my bitter,
mocking words? It may be said that this would have mattered little;
that he might as well have died by his own hand as be taken to Athens,
there to perish with his brethren, whether naturally or by murder I do
not know. But who can judge of such secret things? Without doubt the
sufferings of Nicephorus had a purpose, as have all our sufferings. He
was kept alive for reasons known to his Maker though not to man.

Here I will add that of this unhappy Csar and his brethren I remember
little more. Dimly I seem to recollect that during my period of office
some attack was made upon the prison by those who would have put the
prince to death, but that I discovered the plot through the jailer who
had introduced the poisoned figs, and defeated it with ease, thereby
gaining much credit with Irene and her ministers. If so, of this plot
history says nothing. All it tells of these princes is that afterwards
a mob haled them to the Cathedral of St. Sophia and there proclaimed
Nicephorus emperor. But they were taken again, and at last shipped to
Athens, where they vanished from the sight of men.

God rest their tortured souls, for they were more sinned against than
sinning.



                             CHAPTER III

                            MOTHER AND SON

The next vision of this Byzantine life of mine that rises before me is
that of a great round building crowned with men clad in bishops'
robes. At least they wore mitres, and each of them had a crooked
pastoral staff which in most cases was carried by an attendant monk.

Some debate was in progress, or rather raging. Its subject seemed to
be as to whether images should or should not be worshipped in
churches. It was a furious thing, that debate. One party to it were
called Iconoclasts, that was the party which did not like images, and
I think the other party were called Orthodox, but of this I am not
sure. So furious was it that I, the general and governor of the
prison, had been commanded by those in authority to attend in order to
prevent violence. The beginnings of what happened I do not remember.
What I do remember is that the anti-Iconoclasts, the party to which
the Empress Irene belonged, that was therefore the fashionable sect,
being, as it seemed to me, worsted in argument, fell back on violence.

There followed a great tumult, in which the spectators took part, and
the strange sight was seen of priests and their partisans, and even of
bishops themselves, falling upon their adversaries and beating them
with whatever weapon was to hand; yes, even with their pastoral
staves. It was a wonderful thing to behold, these ministers of the
Christ of peace belabouring each other with pastoral staves!

The party that advocated the worship of images was the more numerous
and had the greater number of adherents, and therefore those who
thought otherwise were defeated. A few of them were dragged out into
the street and killed by the mob which waited there, and more were
wounded, notwithstanding all that I and the guards could do to protect
them. Among the Iconoclasts was a gentle-faced old man with a long
beard, one of the bishops from Egypt, who was named Barnabas. He had
said little in the debate, which lasted for several days, and when he
spoke his words were full of charity and kindness. Still, the image
faction hated him, and when the final tumult began some of them set
upon him. Indeed, one brawny, dark-faced bishop--I think it was he of
Antioch--rushed at Barnabas, and before I could thrust him back, broke
a jewelled staff upon his head, while other priests tore his robe from
neck to shoulder and spat in his face.

At last the riot was quelled; the dead were borne away, and orders
came to me that I was to convey Barnabas to the State prison if he
still lived, together with some others, of whom I remember nothing. So
thither I took Barnabas, and there, with the help of the prison
physician--he to whom I had given the poisoned figs and the dead
monkey to be examined--I nursed him back to life and health.

His illness was long, for one of the blows which he had received
crippled him, and during it we talked much together. He was a very
sweet-natured man and holy, a native of Britain, whose father or
grandfather had been a Dane, and therefore there was a tie between us.
In his youth he was a soldier. Having been taken prisoner in some war,
he came to Italy, where he was ordained a priest at Rome. Afterwards
he was sent as a missionary to Egypt, where he was appointed the head
of a monastery, and in the end elected to a bishopric. But he had
never forgotten the Danish tongue, which his parents taught him as a
child, and so we were able to talk together in that language.

Now it would seem that since that night when the Csar Nicephorus
strove to hang himself, I had obtained and studied a copy of the
Christian Scriptures--how I do not know--and therefore was able to
discuss these matters with Barnabas the bishop. Of our arguments I
remember nothing, save that I pointed out to him that whereas the tree
seemed to me to be very good, its fruits were vile beyond imagination,
and I instanced the horrible tumult when he had been wounded almost to
death, not by common men, but by the very leaders of the Christians.

He answered that these things must happen; that Christ Himself had
said He came to bring not peace but a sword, and that only through war
and struggle would the last truth be reached. The spirit was always
good, he added, but the flesh was always vile. These deeds were those
of the flesh, which passed away, but the spirit remained pure and
immortal.

The end of it was that under the teaching of the holy Barnabas, saint
and martyr (for afterwards he was murdered by the followers of the
false prophet, Mahomet), I became a Christian and a new man. Now at
length I understood what grace it was that had given me courage to
offer battle to the heathen god, Odin, and to smite him down. Now I
saw also where shone the light which I had been seeking these many
years. Aye, and I clasped that light to my bosom to be my lamp in life
and death.

So a day came when my beloved master, Barnabas, who would allow no
delay in this matter, baptised me in his cell with water taken from
his drinking vessel, charging me to make public profession before the
Church when opportunity should arise.

It was just at this time that Irene returned from the Baths, and I
sent to her a written report of all that had happened at the prison
since I had been appointed its governor. Also I prayed that if it were
her will I might be relieved of my office, as it was one which did not
please me.

A few days later, while I sat in my chamber at the prison writing a
paper concerning a prisoner who had died, the porter at the gate
announced that a messenger from the Augusta wished to see me. I bade
him show in the messenger, and presently there entered no chamberlain
or eunuch, but a woman wrapped in a dark cloak. When the man had gone
and the door was shut, she threw off the cloak and I saw that my
visitor was Martina, the favourite waiting-lady of the Empress. We
greeted each other warmly, who were always friends, and I asked her
tidings.

"My tidings are, Olaf, that the waters have suited the Augusta very
well. She has lost several pounds in weight and her skin is now like
that of a young child."

"All health to the Augusta!" I said, laughing. "But you have not come
here to tell me of the state of the royal skin. What next, Martina?"

"This, Olaf. The Empress has read your report with her own eyes, which
is a rare thing for her to do. She said she wished to see whether or
no you could write Greek. She is much pleased with the report, and
told Stauracius in my presence that she had done well in choosing you
for your office while she was absent from the city, since thereby she
had saved the lives of the Csars and /Nobilissimi/, desiring as she
does that these princes should be kept alive, at any rate for the
present. She accedes also to your prayer, and will relieve you of your
office as soon as a new governor can be chosen. You are to return to
guard her person, but with your rank of general confirmed."

"That is all good news, Martina; so good that I wonder what sting is
hidden in all this honey."

"That you will find out presently, Olaf. One I can warn you of,
however--the sting of jealousy. Advancement such as yours draws eyes
to you, not all of them in love."

I nodded and she went on:

"Meantime your star seems to shine very bright indeed. One might
almost say that the Augusta worshipped it, at least she talks of you
to me continually, and once or twice was in half a mind to send for
you to the Baths. Indeed, had it not been for reasons of State
connected with your prisoners I think she would have done so."

"Ah!" I said, "now I think I begin to feel another sting in the
honey."

"Another sting in the honey! Nay, nay, you mean a divine perfume, an
essence of added sweetness, a flavour of the flowers on Mount Ida.
Why, Olaf, if I were your enemy, as I dare say I shall be some day,
for often we learn to hate those whom we have--rather liked, your head
and your shoulders might bid good-bye to each other for such words as
those."

"Perhaps, Martina; and if they did I do not know that it would greatly
matter--now."

"Not greatly matter, when you are driving at full gallop along
Fortune's road to Fame's temple with an Empress for your charioteer!
Are you blind or mad, Olaf, or both? And what do you mean by your
'now'? Olaf, something has happened to you since last we met. Have you
fallen in love with some fair prisoner in this hateful place and been
repulsed? Such a fool as you are might take refusal even from a
captive in his own hands. At least you are different."

"Yes, Martina, something has happened to me. I have become a
Christian."

"Oh! Olaf, now I see that you are not a fool, as I thought, but very
clever. Why, only yesterday the Augusta said to me--it was after she
had read that report of yours--that if you were but a Christian she
would be minded to lift you high indeed. But as you remained the most
obstinate of heathens she did not see how it could be done without
causing great trouble."

"Now I wish one could be a Christian within and remain a pagan
without," I answered grimly; "though alas! that may not be. Martina,
do you not understand that it was for no such reasons as these that I
kissed the Cross; that in so doing I sought not fortune, but to be its
servant?"

"By the Saints! you'll be tonsured next, and ill enough it would suit
you," she exclaimed. "Remember, if things grow too--difficult, you can
always be tonsured, Olaf. Only then you will have to give up the hope
of that lady who wears the other half of the necklace somewhere. I
don't mean Irene's sham half, but the real one. Oh! stop blushing and
stammering, I know the story, and all about Iduna the Fair also. An
exalted person told it me, and so did you, although you were not aware
that you had done so, for you are not one who can keep a secret to
himself. May all the guardian angels help that necklace-lady if ever
she should meet another lady whom I will not name. And now why do you
talk so much? Are you learning to preach, or what? If you really do
mean to become a monk, Olaf, there is another thing you must give up,
and that is war, except of the kind which you saw at the Council the
other day. God above us! what a sight it would be to see you battering
another bishop with a hook-shaped staff over a question of images or
the Two Natures. I should be sorry for that bishop. But you haven't
told me who converted you."

"Barnabas of Egypt," I said.

"Oh! I hoped that it had been a lady saint; the story would have been
so much more interesting to the Court. Well, our imperial mistress
does not like Barnabas, because he does not like images, and that may
be a sting in /her/ honey. But perhaps she will forgive him for your
sake. You'll have to worship images."

"What do I care about images? It is the spirit that I seek, Martina,
and all these things are nothing."

"You are thorough, as usual, Olaf, and jump farther than you can see.
Well, be advised and say naught for or against images. As they have no
meaning for you, what can it matter if they are or are not there?
Leave them to the blind eyes and little minds. And now I must be gone,
who can listen to your gossip no longer. Oh! I had forgotten my
message. The Augusta commands that you shall wait on her this evening
immediately after she has supped. Hear and obey!"

Having delivered this formal mandate, to neglect which meant
imprisonment, or worse, she threw her cloak about her, and with a
wondering glance at my face, opened the door and went.

At the hour appointed, or, rather, somewhat before it, I attended at
the private apartments of the palace. Evidently I was expected, for
one of the chamberlains, on seeing me, bowed and bade me be seated,
then left the ante-room. Presently the door opened again, and through
it came Martina, clad in her white official robe.

"You are early, Olaf," she said, "like a lover who keeps a tryst.
Well, it is always wise to meet good fortune half way. But why do you
come clad in full armour? It is not the custom to wait thus upon the
Empress at this hour when you are off duty."

"I thought that I was on duty, Martina."

"Then, as usual, you thought wrong. Take off that armour; she says
that the sight of it always makes her feel cold after supper. I say
take it off; or if you cannot, I will help you."

So the mail was removed, leaving me clad in my plain blue tunic and
hose.

"Would you have me come before the Empress thus?" I asked.

By way of answer she clapped her hands and bade the eunuch who
answered the signal to bring a certain robe. He went, and presently
reappeared with a wondrous garment of silk broidered with gold, such
as nobles of high rank wore at festivals. This robe, which fitted as
though it had been made for me, I put on, though I liked the look of
it little. Martina would have had me even remove my sword, but I
refused, saying:

"Except at the express order of the Empress, I and my sword are not
parted."

"Well, she said nothing about the sword, Olaf, so let it be. All she
said was that I must be careful that the robe matched the colour of
the necklace you wear. She cannot bear colours which jar upon each
other, especially by lamp-light."

"Am I a man," I asked angrily, "or a beast being decked for
sacrifice?"

"Fie, Olaf, have you not yet forgotten your heathen talk? Remember, I
pray you, that you are now a Christian in a Christian land."

"I thank you for reminding me of it," I replied; and that moment a
chamberlain, entering hurriedly, commanded my presence.

"Good luck to you, Olaf," said Martina as I followed him. "Be sure to
tell me the news later--or to-morrow."

Then the chamberlain led me, not into the audience hall, as I had
expected, but to the private imperial dining chamber. Here, reclining
upon couches in the old Roman fashion, one on either side of a narrow
table on which stood fruits and flagons of rich-hued Greek wine, were
the two greatest people in the world, the Augusta Irene and the
Augustus Constantine, her son.

She was wonderfully apparelled in a low-cut garment of white silk,
over which fell a mantle of the imperial purple, and I noted that on
her dazzling bosom hung that necklace of emerald beetles separated by
golden shells which she had caused to be copied from my own. On her
fair hair that grew low upon her forehead and was parted in the
middle, she wore a diadem of gold in which were set emeralds to match
the beetles of the necklace. The Augustus was arrayed in the festal
garments of a Csar, also covered with a purple cloak. He was a heavy-
faced and somewhat stupid-looking youth, dark-haired, like his father
and uncles, but having large, blue, and not unkindly eyes. From his
flushed face I gathered that he had drunk well of the strong Greek
wine, and from the sullen look about his mouth that, as was common, he
had been quarrelling with his mother.

I stood at the end of the table and saluted first the Empress and then
the Emperor.

"Who's this?" he asked, glancing at me.

"General Olaf, of my guard," she answered, "Governor of the State
Prison. You remember, you wished me to send for him to settle the
point as to which we were arguing."

"Oh! yes. Well, General Olaf, of my mother's guard, have you not been
told that you should salute the Augustus before the Augusta?"

"Sire," I answered humbly, "I have heard nothing of that matter, but
in the land where I was bred I was taught that if a man and a woman
were together I must always bow first to the woman and then to the
man."

"Well said," exclaimed the Empress, clapping her hands; but the
Emperor answered: "Doubtless your mother taught you that, not your
father. Next time you enter the imperial chamber be pleased to forget
the lesson and to remember that Emperors and Empresses are not men and
women."

"Sire," I answered, "as you command I will remember that Emperors and
Empresses are not men and women, but Emperors and Empresses."

At these words the Augustus began to scowl, but, changing his mind,
laughed, as did his mother. He filled a gold cup with wine and pushed
it towards me, saying:

"Drink to us, soldier, for after you have done so, our wits may be
better matched."

I took the cup and holding it, said:

"I pledge your Imperial Majesties, who shine upon the world like twin
stars in the sky. All hail to your Majesties!" and I drank, but not
too deep.

"You are clever," growled the Augustus. "Well, keep the cup; you've
earned it. Yet drain it first, man. You have scarce wet your lips. Do
you fear that it is poisoned, as you say yonder fruits are?" And he
pointed to a side-table, where stood a jar of glass in which were
those very figs that had been sent to the princes in the prison.

"The cup you give is mine," interrupted Irene; "still, my servant is
welcome to the gift. It shall be sent to your quarters, General."

"A soldier has no need of such gauds, your Majesties," I began, when
Constantine, who, while we spoke, had swallowed another draught of the
strong wine, broke in angrily:

"May I not give a cup of gold but you must claim it, I to whom the
Empire and all its wealth belong?"

Snatching up the beaker he dashed it to the floor, spilling the wine,
of which I, who wished to keep my head cool, was glad.

"Have done," he went on in his drunken rage. "Shall the Csars
huckster over a piece of worked gold like Jews in a market? Give me
those figs, man; I'll settle the matter of this poison."

I brought the jar of figs, and, bowing, set them down before him. That
they were the same I knew, for the glass was labelled in my own
writing and in that of the physician. He cut away the sealed parchment
which was stretched over the mouth of the jar.

"Now hearken you, Olaf," he said. "It is true that I ordered fruit to
be sent to that fool-Csar, my uncle, because the last time I saw him
Nicephorus prayed me for it, and I was willing to do him a pleasure.
But that I ordered the fruit to be poisoned, as my mother says, is a
lie, and may God curse the tongue that spoke it. I will show you that
it was a lie," and plunging his hand into the spirit of the jar, he
drew out two of the figs. "Now," he went on, waving them about in a
half-drunken fashion, "this General Olaf of yours says that these are
the same figs which were sent to the Csar, I mean the blind priest,
Father Nicephorus. Don't you, Olaf?"

"Yes, Sire," I answered, "they were placed in that bottle in my
presence and sealed with my seal."

"Well, those figs were sent by me, and this Olaf tells us they are
poisoned. I'll show him, and you too, mother, that they are /not/
poisoned, for I will eat one of them."

Now I looked at the Augusta, but she sat silent, her arms folded on
her white bosom, her handsome face turned as it were to stone.

Constantine lifted the fig towards his loose mouth. Again I looked at
the Augusta. Still she sat there like a statue, and it came into my
mind that it was her purpose to allow this wine-bemused man to eat the
fig. Then I acted.

"Augustus," I said, "you must not touch that fruit," and stepping
forward I took it from his hand.

He sprang to his feet and began to revile me.

"You watch-dog of the North!" he shouted. "Do you dare to say to the
Emperor that he shall not do this or that? By all the images my mother
worships I'll have you whipped through the Circus."

"That you will never do," I answered, for my free blood boiled at the
insult. "I tell you, Sire," I went on, leaving out certain words which
I meant to speak, "that the fig is poisoned."

"And I tell you that you lie, you heathen savage. See here! Either you
eat that fig or I do, so that we may know who speaks the truth. If you
won't, I will. Now obey, or, by Christ! to-morrow you shall be shorter
by a head."

"The Augustus is pleased to threaten, which is unnecessary," I
remarked. "If I eat the fig, will the Augustus swear to leave the rest
of them uneaten?"

"Aye," he answered with a hiccough, "for then I shall know the truth,
and for the truth I live, though," he added, "I haven't found it yet."

"And if I do not eat it, will the Augustus do so?"

"By the Holy Blood, yes. I'll eat a dozen of them. Am I one to be
hectored by a woman and a barbarian? Eat, or I eat."

"Good, Sire. It is better that a barbarian should die than that the
world should lose its glorious Emperor. I eat, and when you are as I
soon shall be, as will happen even to an emperor, may my blood lie
heavy on your soul, the blood which I give to save your life."

Then I lifted the fig to my lips.

Before ever it touched them, with a motion swift as that of a panther
springing on its prey, Irene had leapt from her couch and dashed the
fruit from my hand. She turned upon her son.

"What kind of a thing are you," she asked, "who would suffer a brave
man to poison himself that he may save your worthless life? Oh! God,
what have I done that I should have given birth to such a hound?
Whoever poisoned them, these fruits are poisoned, as has been proved
and can be proved again, yes, and shall be. I tell you that if Olaf
had tasted one of them by now he would have been dead or dying."

Constantine drank another cup of wine, which, oddly enough, seemed to
sober him for the moment.

"I find all this strange," he said heavily. "You, my mother, would
have suffered me to eat the fig which you declare is poisoned; a
matter whereof you may know something. But when the General Olaf
offers to eat it in my place, with your own royal hand you dash it
from his lips, as he dashed it from mine. And there is another thing
which is still more strange. This Olaf, who also says the figs are
poisoned, offered to eat one of them if I promised I would not do so,
which means, if he is right, that he offered to give his life for
mine. Yet I have done nothing for him except call him hard names; and
as he is your servant he has nothing to look for from me if I should
win the fight with you at last. Now I have heard much talk of
miracles, but this is the only one I have ever seen. Either Olaf is a
liar, or he is a great man and a saint. He says, I am told, that the
monkey which ate one of those figs died. Well, I never thought of it
before, but there are more monkeys in the palace. Indeed, one lives on
the terrace near by, for I fed it this afternoon. We'll put the matter
to the proof and learn of what stuff this Olaf is really made."

On the table stood a silver bell, and as he spoke he struck it. A
chamberlain entered and was ordered to bring in the monkey. He
departed, and with incredible swiftness the beast and its keeper
arrived. It was a large animal of the baboon tribe, famous throughout
the palace for its tricks. Indeed, on entering, at a word from the man
who led it, it bowed to all of us.

"Give your beast these," said the Emperor, handing the keeper several
of the figs.

The baboon took the fruits and, having sniffed at them, put them
aside. Then the keeper fed it with some sweetmeats, which it caught
and devoured, and presently, when its fears were allayed, threw it one
of the figs, which it swallowed, doubtless thinking it a sweetmeat. A
minute or two later it began to show signs of distress and shortly
afterwards died in convulsions.

"Now," said Irene, "now do you believe, my son?"

"Yes," he answered, "I believe that there is a saint in
Constantinople. Sir Saint, I salute you. You have saved my life and if
it should come my way, by your brother saints! I'll save yours,
although you are my mother's servant."

So speaking, he drank off yet another cup of wine and reeled from the
room.

The keeper, at a sign from Irene, lifted up the body of the dead ape
and also left the chamber, weeping as he went, for he had loved this
beast.



                              CHAPTER IV

                        OLAF OFFERS HIS SWORD

The Emperor had gone, drunk; the ape had gone, dead; and its keeper
had gone, weeping. Irene and I alone were left in that beautiful place
with the wine-stained table on which stood the jar of poisoned figs
and the bent golden cup lying on the marble floor.

She sat upon the couch, looking at me with a kind of amazement in her
eyes, and I stood before her at attention, as does a soldier on duty.

"I wonder why he did not send for one of my servants to eat those figs
--Stauracius, for instance," she mused, adding with a little laugh,
"Well, if he had, there are some whom I could have spared better than
that poor ape, which at times I used to feed. It was an honest
creature, that ape; the only creature in the palace that would not rub
its head in the dust before the Augusta. Ah! now I remember, it always
hated Constantine, for when he was a child he used to tease it with a
stick, getting beyond the length of its chain and striking it. But one
day, as he passed too near, it caught him and buffeted him on the
cheek and tore out some of his hair. He wanted to kill it then, but I
forbade him. Yet he has never forgotten it, he who never does forget
anything he hates, and that is why he sent for the poor beast."

"The Augusta will remember that the Augustus did not know that the
figs were poisoned."

"The Augusta is sure that the Augustus knew well enough that those
figs were poisoned, at any rate from the moment that I dashed one of
them from your lips, Olaf. Well, I have made a bitterer enemy than
before, that's all. They say that by Nature's rule mother and child
must love each other, but it is a lie. I tell you it's a lie. From the
time he was tiny I hated that boy, though not half as much as he has
hated me. You are thinking to yourself that this is because our
ambitions clash like meeting swords, and that from them spring these
fires of hate. It is not so. The hate is native to our hearts, and
will only end when one of us lies dead at the other's hand."

"Terrible words, Augusta."

"Yes, but true. Truth is always terrible--in Byzantium. Olaf, take
those drugged fruits and set them in the drawer of yonder table; lock
it and guard the key, lest they should poison other honest animals."

I obeyed and returned to my station.

She looked at me and said:

"I grow weary of the sight of you standing there like a statue of the
Roman Mars, with your sword half hid beneath your cloak; and, what's
more, I hate this hall; it reeks of Constantine and his drink and
lies. Oh! he's vile, and for my sins God has made me his mother,
unless, indeed, he was changed at birth, as I've been told, though I
could never prove it. Give me your hand and help me to rise. So, I
thank you. Now follow me. We'll sit a while in my private chamber,
where alone I can be happy, since the Emperor never comes there. Nay,
talk not of duty; you have no guards to set or change to-night. Follow
me; I have secret business of which I would talk with you."

So she went and I followed through doors that opened mysteriously at
our approach and shut mysteriously behind us, till I found myself in a
little room half-lighted only, that I had never seen before. It was a
scented and a beautiful place, in one corner of which a white statue
gleamed, that of a Venus kissing Cupid, who folded one wing about her
head, and through the open window-place the moonlight shone and
floated the murmur of the sea.

The double doors were shut, for aught I knew locked, and with her own
hands Irene drew the curtains over them. Near the open window, to
which there was no balcony, stood a couch.

"Sit yonder, Olaf," she said, "for here there is no ceremony; here we
are but man and woman."

I obeyed, while she busied herself with the curtains. Then she came
and sat herself down on the couch also, leaning against the end of it
in such a fashion that she could watch me in the moonlight.

"Olaf," she said, after she had looked at me a while, rather
strangely, as I thought, for the colour came and went upon her face,
which in that light seemed quite young again and wonderfully
beautiful, "Olaf, you are a very brave man."

"There are hundreds in your service braver, Empress; cowards do not
take to soldiering."

"I could tell you a different story, Olaf; but it was not of this kind
of courage that I talked. It was of that which made you offer to eat
the poisoned fig in place of Constantine. Why did you do so? It is
true that, as things have happened, he'll remember it in your favour,
for I'll say this of him, he never forgets one who has saved him from
harm, any more than he forgets one who has harmed him. But if you had
eaten you would have died, and then how could he have rewarded you?"

"Empress, when I took my oath of office I swore to protect both the
Augustus and the Augusta, even with my life. I was fulfilling my oath,
that is all."

"You are a strange man as well as a brave man to interpret oaths so
strictly. If you will do as much as this for one who is nothing to
you, and who has never paid you a gold piece, how much, I wonder,
would you do for one whom you love."

"I could offer no more than my life for such a one, Empress, could I?"

"Someone told me--it may have been you, Olaf, or another--that once
you did more, challenging a heathen god for the sake of one you loved,
and defeating him. It was added that this was for a man, but that I do
not believe. Doubtless it was for the sake of Iduna the Fair, of whom
you have spoken to me, whom it seems you cannot forget although she
was faithless to you. It is said that the best way to hold love is to
be faithless to him who loves, and in truth I believe it," she added
bitterly.

"You are mistaken, Empress. It was to be avenged on him for the life
of Steinar, my foster-brother, which he had taken in sacrifice, that I
dared Odin and hewed his holy statue to pieces with this sword; of
Steinar, whom Iduna betrayed as she betrayed me, bringing one to death
and the other to shame."

"At least, had it not been for this Iduna you would never have given
battle to the great god of the North and thus brought his curse upon
you. For, Olaf, those gods live; they are devils."

"Whether Odin is or is not, I do not fear his curse, Empress."

"Yet it will find you out before all is done, or so I think. Look you,
pagan blood still runs in me, and, Christian though I am, I would not
dare one of the great gods of Greece and Rome. I'd leave that to the
priests. Do you fear nothing, Olaf?"

"I think nothing at all, since I hewed off Odin's head and came away
unscathed."

"Then you are a man to my liking, Olaf."

She paused, looking at me even more strangely than before, till I
turned my eyes, indeed, and stared out at the sea, wishing that I were
in it, or anywhere away from this lovely and imperious woman whom I
was sworn to obey in all things.

"Olaf," she said presently, "you have served me well of late. Is there
any reward that you would ask, and if so, what? Anything that I can
give is yours, unless," she added hastily, "the gift will take you
away from Constantinople and from--me."

"Yes, Augusta," I answered, still staring out at the sea. "In the
prison yonder is an old bishop named Barnabas of Egypt, who was set
upon by other bishops at the Council while you were away and wellnigh
beaten to death. I ask that he may be freed and restored to his
diocese with honour."

"Barnabas," she replied sharply. "I know the man. He is an Iconoclast,
and therefore my enemy. Only this morning I signed an order that he
should be kept in confinement till he died, here or elsewhere. Still,"
she went on, "though I would sooner give you a province, have your
gift, for I can refuse you nothing. Barnabas shall be freed and
restored to his see with honour. I have said."

Now I began to thank her, but she stopped me, saying:

"Have done! Another time you can talk to me of heretics with whom you
have made friends, but I, who hear enough of such, would have no more
of them to-night."

So I grew silent and still stared out at the sea. Indeed, I was
wondering in my mind whether I dared ask leave to depart, for I felt
her eyes burning on me, and grew much afraid. Suddenly I heard a
sound, a gentle sound of rustling silk, and in another instant I felt
Irene's arms clasped about me and Irene's head laid upon my knee. Yes,
she was kneeling before me, sobbing, and her proud head was resting on
my knee. The diadem she wore had fallen from it, and her tresses,
breaking loose, flowed to the ground, and lay there gleaming like gold
in the moonlight.

She looked up, and her face was that of a weeping saint.

"Dost understand?" she whispered.

Now despair took me, which I knew full well would soon be followed by
madness. Then came a thought.

"Yes," I said hoarsely. "I understand that you grieve over that matter
of the Augustus and the poisoned figs, and would pray me to keep
silence. Have no fear, my lips are sealed, but for his I cannot
answer, though perhaps as he had drunk so much----"

"Fool!" she whispered. "Is it thus that an Empress pleads with her
captain to keep silence?" Then she drew herself up, a wonderful look
upon her face that had grown suddenly white, a fire in her upturned
eyes, and for the second time kissed me upon the lips.

I took her in my arms and kissed her back. For an instant my mind
swam. Then in my soul I cried for help, and strength came to me.
Rising, I lifted her as though she were a child, and stood her on her
feet. I said:

"Hearken, Empress, before destruction falls. I do understand now,
though a moment ago I did not, who never thought it possible that the
queen of the world could look with favour upon one so humble."

"Love takes no account of rank," she murmured, "and that kiss of yours
upon my lips is more to me than the empire of the world."

"Yet hearken," I answered. "There is another wall between us which may
not be climbed."

"Man, what is this wall? Is it named woman? Are you sworn to the
memory of that Iduna, who is more fair than I? Or is it, perchance,
her of the necklace?"

"Neither. Iduna is dead to me; she of the necklace is but a dream. The
wall is that of your own faith. On this night seven days ago I was
baptised a Christian."

"Well, what of it? This draws us nearer."

"Study the sayings of your sacred book, Empress, and you will find
that it thrusts us apart."

Now she coloured to her hair, and a kind of madness took her.

"Am I to be preached to by you?" she asked.

"I preach to myself, Augusta, who need it greatly, not to you, who
mayhap do not need it."

"Hating me as you do, why should you need it? You are the worst of
hypocrites, who would veil your hate under a priest's robe."

"Have you no pity, Irene? When did I say that I hated you? Moreover,
if I had hated you, should I----" and I ceased.

"I do not know what you would or would not have done," she answered
coldly. "I think that Constantine is right, and that you must be what
is called a saint; and, if so, saints are best in heaven, especially
when they know too much on earth. Give me that sword of yours."

I drew the sword, saluted with it, and gave it to her.

"It is a heavy weapon," she said. "Whence came it?"

"From the same grave as the necklace, Augusta."

"Ah! the necklace that your dream-woman wore. Well, go to seek her in
the land of dreams," and she lifted the sword.

"Your pardon, Augusta, but you are about to strike with the blunt
edge, which may wound but will not kill."

She laughed a little, very nervously, and, turning the sword round in
her hand, said:

"Truly, you are the strangest of men! Ah! I thank you, now I have it
right. Do you understand, Olaf, I mean, Sir Saint, what sort of a
story I must tell of you after I have struck? Do you understand that
not only are you about to die, but that infamy will be poured upon
your name and that your body will be dragged through the streets and
thrown to the dogs with the city offal? Answer, I say, answer!"

"I understand that you must cause these things to be done for your own
sake, Augusta, and I do not complain. Lies matter nothing to me, who
journey to the Land of Truth, where there are some whom I would meet
again. Be advised by me. Strike here, where the neck joins the
shoulder, holding the sword slantwise, for there even a woman's blow
will serve to sever the great artery."

"I cannot. Kill yourself, Olaf."

"A week ago I'd have fallen on the sword; but now, by the rule of our
faith, in such a cause I may not. My blood must be upon your hands,
for which I grieve, knowing that no other road is open to you.
Augusta, if it is worth anything to you, take my full forgiveness for
the deed, and with it my thanks for all the goodness you have shown to
me, but most for your woman's favour. In after years, perhaps, when
death draws near to you also, if ever you remember Olaf, your faithful
servant, you will understand much it is not fitting that I should say.
Give me one moment to make my peace with Heaven as to certain kisses.
Then strike hard and swiftly, and, as you strike, scream for your
guards and women. Your wit will do the rest."

She lifted the sword, while, after a moment's prayer, I bared my neck
of the silk robe. Then she let it fall again, gasping, and said:

"Tell me first, for I am curious. Are you no man? Or have you forsworn
woman, as do the monks?"

"Not I, Augusta. Had I lived, some day I might have married, who would
have wished to leave children behind me, since in our law marriage is
allowed. Forget not your promise as to the Bishop Barnabas, who, I
fear, will weep over this seeming fall of mine."

"So you would marry, would you?" she said, as one who speaks to
herself; then thought awhile, and handed me back the sword.

"Olaf," she went on, "you have made me feel as I never felt before--
ashamed, utterly ashamed, and though I learn to hate you, as it well
may hap I shall, know that I shall always honour you."

Then she sank down upon the couch, and, hiding her face in her hands,
wept bitterly.

It was at this moment that I went very near to loving Irene.

I think she must have felt something of what was passing in my mind,
for suddenly she looked up and said: "Give me that jewel," and she
pointed to the diadem on the floor, "and help me to order my hair; my
hands shake."

"Nay," I said, as I gave her the crown. "Of that wine I drink no more.
I dare not touch you; you grow too dear."

"For those words," she whispered, "go in safety, and remember that
from Irene you have naught to fear, as I know well I have naught to
fear from you, O Prince among men."

So presently I went.



On the following morning, as I sat in my office at the prison, setting
all things in order for whoever should succeed me, Martina entered, as
she had done before.

"How came you here unannounced?" I asked, when she was seated.

"By virtue of this," she answered, holding up her hand and showing on
it a ring I knew. It was the signet of the Empress. I saluted the
seal, saying:

"And for what purpose, Martina? To order me to bonds or death?"

"To bonds or death!" she exclaimed innocently. "What can our good Olaf
have done worthy of such woes? Nay, I come to free one from bonds, and
perhaps from death, namely, a certain heretic bishop who is named
Barnabas. Here is the order for his release, signed by the Augusta's
hand and sealed with her seal, under which he is at liberty to bide in
Constantinople while he will and to return to his bishopric in Egypt
when it pleases him. Also, if he holds that any have harmed him, he
may make complaint, and it shall be considered without delay."

I took the parchment, read it, and laid it on the table, saying:

"The commands of the Empress shall be done. Is there aught else,
Martina?"

"Yes. To-morrow morning you will be relieved of your office, and
another governor--Stauracius and Aetius are quarrelling as to his name
--will take your place."

"And I?"

"You will resume your post as captain of the private guard, only with
the rank of a full general of the army. But that I told you yesterday.
It is now confirmed."

I said nothing, but a groan I could not choke broke from my lips.

"You do not seem as pleased as you might be, Olaf. Tell me, now, at
what hour did you leave the palace last night? While waiting for my
mistress to summon me I fell asleep in the vestibule of the ante-room,
and when I awoke and went into that room I found there the gold-
broidered silk robe you wore, cast upon the ground, and your armour
gone."

"I know not what was the hour, Martina, and speak no more to me, I
pray, of that accursed womanish robe."

"Which you treated but ill, Olaf, for it is spotted as though with
blood."

"The Augustus spilt some wine over it."

"Aye, my mistress told me the story. Also that of how you would have
eaten the poisoned fig, which you snatched from the lips of
Constantine."

"And what else did your mistress tell you, Martina?"

"Not much, Olaf. She was in a very strange mood last night, and while
I combed her hair, which, Olaf, was as tangled as though a man had
handled it," and she looked at me till I coloured to the eyes, "and
undid her diadem, that was set on it all awry, she spoke to me of
marriage."

"Of marriage!" I gasped.

"Certainly--did I not speak the word with clearness?--of marriage."

"With whom, Martina?"

"Oh! grow not jealous before there is need, Olaf. She made no mention
of the name of our future divine master, for whosoever can rule Irene,
if such a one lives, will certainly rule us also. All she said was
that she wished she could find some man to guide, guard and comfort
her, who grew lonely amidst many troubles, and hoped for more sons
than Constantine."

"What sort of a man, Martina? This Emperor Charlemagne, or some other
king?"

"No. She vowed that she had seen enough of princes, who were murderers
and liars, all of them; and that what she desired was one of good
birth, no more, brave, honest, and not a fool. I asked her, too, what
she would have him like to look upon."

"And what did she say to that, Martina?"

"Oh! she said that he must be tall, and under forty, fair-haired and
bearded, since she loved not these shaven effeminates, who look half
woman and half priest; one who had known war, and yet was no ruffler;
a person of open mind, who had learnt and could learn more. Well, now
that I think of it, by all the Saints!--yes, much such a man as /you/
are, Olaf."

"Then she may find them in plenty," I said, with an uneasy laugh.

"Do you think so? Well, she did not, neither did I. Indeed, she
pointed out that this was her trouble. Among the great of the earth
she knew no such man, and, if she sought lower, then would come
jealousies and war."

"Indeed they would. Doubtless you showed her that this was so,
Martina."

"Not at all, Olaf. I asked her of what use it was to be an Empress if
she could not please her own heart in this matter of a husband, which
is one important to a woman. I said also, as for such fears, that a
secret marriage might be thought of, which is an honest business that
could be declared when occasion came."

"And what did she answer to that, Martina?"

"She fell into high good humour, called me a faithful and a clever
friend, gave me a handsome jewel, told me that she would have a
mission for me on the morrow--doubtless that which I now fulfil, for I
have heard of no other--said, notwithstanding all the trouble as to
the Augustus and his threats, that she was sure she would sleep better
than she had done for nights, kissed me on both cheeks, and flung
herself upon her knees at her praying-stool, where I left her. But why
are you looking so sad, Olaf?"

"Oh! I know not, save that I find life difficult, and full of pitfalls
which it is hard to escape."

Martina rested her elbows on the table and her chin upon her little
hand, staring me full in the face with her quick eyes that pierced
like nails.

"Olaf," she said, "your star shines bright above you. Keep your eyes
fixed thereon and follow it, and never think about the pitfalls. It
may lead you I know not where."

"To heaven, perhaps," I suggested.

"Well, you did not fear to go thither when you would have eaten the
poisoned fig last night. To heaven, perchance, but by a royal road.
Whatever you may think of some others, marriage is an honourable
estate, my Christian friend, especially if a man marries well. And now
good-bye; we shall meet again at the palace, whither you will repair
to-morrow morning. Not before, since I am engaged in directing the
furnishment of your new quarters in the right wing, and, though the
workmen labour all night, they will not be finished until then. Good-
bye, General Olaf. Your servant Martina salutes you and your star,"
and she curtsied before me until her knees almost touched the ground.



                              CHAPTER V

                           AVE POST SECULA

It comes back to me that on the following day my successor in the
governorship of the jail, who he was I know not now, arrived, and that
to him in due form I handed over my offices and duties. Before I did
so, however, I made it my care to release Barnabas, I think on the
previous evening. In his cell I read the Augusta's warrant to the old
bishop.

"How was it obtained, son," he asked, "for, know, that having so many
enemies on this small matter of image worship, I expected to die in
this place? Now it seems that I am free, and may even return to my
charge in Egypt."

"The Empress granted it to me as a favour, Father," I answered. "I
told her that you were from the North, like myself."

He studied me with his shrewd blue eyes, and said:

"It seems strange to me that so great and unusual a boon should be
granted for such a reason, seeing that better men than I am have
suffered banishment and worse woes for less cause than I have given.
What did you pay the Empress for this favour, son Olaf?"

"Nothing, Father."

"Is it so? Olaf, a dream has come to me about you, and in that dream I
saw you walk through a great fire and emerge unscathed, save for the
singeing of your lips and hair."

"Perhaps they were singed, Father. Otherwise, I am unburned, though
what will happen to me in the future I do not know, for my dangers
seem great."

"In my dream you triumphed over all of them, Olaf, and also met with
some reward even in this life, though now I know not what it was. Yes,
and triumph you shall, my son in Christ. Fear nothing, even when the
storm-clouds sweep about your head and the lightnings blind your eyes.
I say, fear nothing, for you have friends whom you cannot see. I ask
no more even under the seal of confession, since there are secrets
which it is not well to learn. Who knows, I might go mad, or torture
might draw from me words I would not speak. Therefore, keep your own
counsel, son, and confess to God alone."

"What will you do now, Father?" I asked. "Return to Egypt?"

"Nay, not yet awhile. It comes to me that I must bide here for a
space, which under this pardon I have liberty to do, but to what end I
cannot say. Later on I shall return, if God so wills. I go to dwell
with good folk who are known to me, and from time to time will let you
hear where I may be found, if you should need my help or counsel."

Then I led him to the gates, and, having given him a witnessed copy of
his warrant of release, bade him farewell for that time, making it
known to the guards and certain priests who lingered there that any
who molested him must answer for it to the Augusta.

Thus we parted.

Having handed over the keys of the prison, I walked to the palace
unattended, being minded to take up my duties there unnoticed. But
this was not to be. As I entered the palace gate a sentry called out
something, and a messenger, who seemed to be in waiting, departed at
full speed. Then the sentry, saluting, told me that his orders were
that I must stand awhile, he knew not why. Presently I discovered, for
across the square within the gates marched a full general's guard,
whereof the officer also saluted, and prayed me to come with him. I
went, wondering if I was to be given in charge, and by him, surrounded
with this pompous guard, was led to my new quarters, which were more
splendid than I could have dreamed. Here the guard left me, and
presently other officers appeared, some of them old comrades of my
own, asking for orders, of which, of course, I had none to give. Also,
within an hour, I was summoned to a council of generals to discuss
some matter of a war in which the Empire was engaged. By such means as
these it was conveyed to me that I had become a great man, or, at any
rate, one in the way of growing great.

That afternoon, when, according to my old custom, I was making my
round of the guards, I met the Augusta upon the main terrace,
surrounded by a number of ministers and courtiers. I saluted and would
have passed on, but she bade one of her eunuchs call me to her. So I
came and stood before her.

"We greet you, General Olaf," she said. "Where have you been all this
long while? Oh! I remember. At the State prison, as its governor, of
which office you are now relieved at your own request. Well, the
palace welcomes you again, for when you are here all within know
themselves safe."

Thus she spoke, her great eyes searching my face the while, then bowed
her head in token of dismissal. I saluted again, and began to step
backwards, according to the rule, whereon she motioned to me to stand.
Then she began to make a laugh of me to the painted throng about her.

"Say, nobles and ladies," she said, "did any of you ever see such a
man? We address him as best we may--and we have reason to believe that
he understands our language--yet not one word does he vouchsafe to us
in answer. There he stands, like a soldier cut in iron who moves by
springs, with never an 'I thank you' or a 'Good day' on his lips.
Doubtless he would reprove us all, who, he holds, talk too much,
being, as we all have heard, a man of stern morality, who has no
tenderness for human foibles. By the way, General Olaf, a rumour has
reached us that you have forsaken doubt, and become a Christian. Is
this true?"

"It is true, Augusta."

"Then if as a Pagan you were a man of iron, what will you be as a
Christian, we wonder? One hard as diamond, no less. Yet we are glad of
this tidings, as all good servants of the Church must be, since
henceforth our friendship will be closer and we value you. General,
you must be received publicly into the bosom of the Faith; it will be
an encouragement to others to follow your example. Perhaps, as you
have served us so well in many wars and as an officer of our guard, we
ourselves will be your god-mother. The matter shall be considered by
us. What have you to answer to it?"

"Nothing," I replied, "save that when the Augusta has considered of
the matter, I will consider of my answer."

At this the courtiers tittered, and, instead of growing angry, as I
thought she might, Irene burst out laughing.

"Truly we were wrong," she said, "to provoke you to open your mouth,
General, for when you do so, like that red sword you wear, your tongue
is sharp, if somewhat heavy. Tell us, General, are your new quarters
to your taste, and before you reply know that we inspected them
ourselves, and, having a liking for such tasks, attended to their
furnishment. 'Tis done, you will see, in the Northern style, which we
think somewhat cold and heavy--like your sword and tongue."

"If the Augusta asks me," I said, "the quarters are too fine for a
single soldier. The two rooms where I dwelt before were sufficient."

"A single soldier! Well, that is a fault which can be remedied. You
should marry, General Olaf."

"When I find any woman who wishes to marry me and whom I wish to
marry, I will obey the Augusta's commands."

"So be it, General, only remember that first we must approve the lady.
Venture not, General, to share those new quarters of yours with any
lady whom we do not approve."

Then, followed by the Court, she turned and walked away, and I went
about my business, wondering what was the meaning of all this guarded
and half-bitter talk.

The next event that returns to me clearly is that of my public
acceptance as a Christian in the great Cathedral of St. Sophia, which
must have taken place not very long after this meeting upon the
terrace. I know that by every means in my power I had striven, though
without avail, to escape this ceremony, pointing out that I could be
publicly received into the body of the Church at any chapel where
there was a priest and a congregation of a dozen humble folk. But this
the Empress would not allow. The reason she gave was her desire that
my conversion should be proclaimed throughout the city, that other
Pagans, of whom there were thousands, might follow my example. Yet I
think she had another which she did not avow. It was that I might be
made known in public as a man of importance whom it pleased her to
honour.

On the morning of this rite, Martina came to acquaint me with its
details, and told me that the Empress would be present at the
cathedral in state, making her progress thither in her golden chariot,
drawn by the famed milk-white steeds. I, it seemed, was to ride after
the chariot in my general's uniform, which was splendid enough,
followed by a company of guards, and surrounded by chanting priests.
The Patriarch himself, no less a person, was to receive me and some
other converts, and the cathedral would be filled with all the great
ones of Constantinople.

I asked whether Irene intended to be my god-mother, as she had
threatened.

"Not so," replied Martina. "On that point she has changed her mind."

"So much the better," I said. "But why?"

"There is a canon of the Church, Olaf, which forbids intermarriage
between a god-parent and his or her god-child," she replied dryly.
"Whether this canon has come to the Augusta's memory or not, I cannot
say. It may be so."

"Who, then, is to be my god-mother?" I asked hurriedly, leaving the
problem of Irene's motives undiscussed.

"I am, by the written Imperial decree delivered to me not an hour
ago."

"You, Martina, you who are younger than myself by many years?"

"Yes, I. The Augusta has just explained to me that as we seem to be
such very good friends, and to talk together so much alone, doubtless,
she supposed, upon matters of religion, there could be no person more
suitable than such a good Christian as myself to fill that holy
office."

"What do you mean, Martina?" I asked bluntly.

"I mean, Olaf," she replied, turning away her head, and speaking in a
strained voice, "that, where you are concerned, the Augusta of late
has done me the honour to be somewhat jealous of me. Well, of a god-
mother no one need be jealous. The Augusta is a clever woman, Olaf."

"I do not quite understand," I said. "Why should the Augusta be
jealous of you?"

"There is no reason at all, Olaf, except that, as it happens, she is
jealous of every woman who comes near to you, and she knows that we
are intimate and that you trust me--well, more, perhaps, than you
trust her. Oh! I assure you that of late you have not spoken to any
woman under fifty unnoted and unreported. Many eyes watch you, Olaf."

"Then they might find better employment. But tell me outright,
Martina, what is the meaning of all this?"

"Surely even a wooden-headed Northman can guess, Olaf?"

She glanced round her to make sure that we were alone in the great
apartment of my quarters and that the doors were shut, then went on,
almost in a whisper, "My mistress is wondering whether or no she will
marry again, and, if so, whether she will choose a certain somewhat
over-virtuous Christian soldier as a second husband. As yet she has
not made up her mind. Moreover, even if she had, nothing could be done
at present or until the question of the struggle between her and her
son for power is settled in this way or in that. Therefore, at worst,
or at best, that soldier has yet a while of single life left to him,
say a month or two."

"Then during that month or two perhaps he would be wise to travel," I
suggested.

"Perhaps, if he were a fool who would run away from fortune, and if he
could get leave of absence, which in his case is impossible; to
attempt such a journey without it would mean his death. No, if he is
wise, that soldier will bide where he is and await events, possessing
his soul in patience, as a good Christian should do. Now, as your god-
mother, I must instruct you in this service. Look not so troubled; it
is really most simple. You know Stauracius, the eunuch, is to be your
god-father, which is very fortunate for you, since, although he looks
on you with doubt and jealousy, to blind or murder his own god-son
would cause too much scandal even in Constantinople. As a special mark
of grace, also, the Bishop Barnabas, of Egypt, will be allowed to
assist in the ceremony, because it was he who snatched your soul from
the burning. Moreover, since the Sacrament is to be administered
afterwards, he has been commanded to attend here to receive your
confession in the chapel of the palace, and within an hour. You know
that this day being the Feast of St. Michael and All Angels, you will
be received in the name of Michael, a high one well fitted to a
warlike saint, though I think that I shall still call you Olaf. So
farewell, my god-son to be, until we meet at the cathedral, where I
shall shine in the reflected light of all your virtues."

Then she sighed, laughed a little, and glided away.

In due course a priest of the chapel came to summon me there, saying
that the Bishop Barnabas awaited me. I went and made my confession,
though in truth I had little to tell him that he did not already know.
Afterwards the good old man, who by now was quite recovered from his
hurts and imprisonment, accompanied me to my quarters, where we ate
together. He told me that before he attended in the chapel he had been
received by the Empress, who had spoken to him very kindly, making
light of their difference of opinion as to images and with her own
mouth confirmed him in his bishopric, even hinting at his possible
promotion.

"This, my son," he added, "I am well aware I owe to your good
offices."

I asked him if he would return at once to Upper Egypt, where he had
his bishopric.

"No, my son," he answered, "not yet awhile. The truth is that there
have arrived here the chief man in my diocese, and his daughter. He is
a descendant of the old Pharaohs of the Egyptians who lives near the
second cataract of the Nile, almost on the borders of Ethiopia,
whither the accursed children of Mahomet have not yet forced their
way. He is still a great man among the Egyptians, who look upon him as
their lawful prince. His mission here is to try to plan a new war upon
the followers of the Prophet, who, he holds, might be assailed by the
Empire at the mouths of the Nile, while he attacked them with his
Egyptians from the south."

Now I grew interested, who had always grieved over the loss of Egypt
to the Empire, and asked what was this prince's name.

"Magas, my son, and his daughter is named Heliodore. Ah! she is such a
woman as I would see you wed, beautiful indeed, and good and true as
she is beautiful, with a high spirit also, such as befits her ancient
blood. Mayhap you will note her in the cathedral. Nay, I forgot, not
there, but afterwards in this palace, since it is the command of the
Empress, to whom I have been speaking of their matters, that these two
should come to dwell here for a while. After that I hope we shall all
return to Egypt together, though Magas, being on a secret mission,
does not travel under his own name, but as a merchant."

Suddenly he paused, and began to stare at my throat.

"Is aught wrong with my armour, Father?" I asked.

"No, son. I was looking at that trinket which you wear. Of course I
have noted it before, but never closely. It is strange, very strange!"

"What is strange, Father?"

"Only that I have seen another like it."

"I dare say you have," I answered, laughing, "for when I would not
give this to the Augusta, it pleased her to have it copied."

"No, no; I mean in Egypt, and, what is more, a story hung to the
jewel."

"On whom? Where? What story?" I asked eagerly.

"Oh! I cannot stay to tell you now. Moreover, your mind should be
fixed upon immortal crowns, and not on earthly necklaces. I must be
gone; nay, stay me not, I am already late. Do you get you to your
knees and pray till your god-parents come to fetch you."

Then, in spite of all I could do to keep him, he went, muttering:
"Strange! Exceeding strange!" and leaving me quite unfit for prayer.



An hour later I was riding through the streets of the mighty city,
clad in shining armour. As the season was that of October, in which
the Feast of St. Michael falls, we wore cloaks, although, the day
being warm, they were little needed. Mine was of some fine white
stuff, with a red cross broidered on the right shoulder. Stauracius,
the eunuch and great minister, who had been ordered to act as my god-
father, rode alongside of me on a mule, because he dared not mount a
horse, sweating beneath his thick robe of office, and, as I heard from
time to time, cursing me, his god-son, and all this ceremony beneath
his breath. On my other hand was my god-mother, Martina, riding an
Arab mare, which she did well enough, having been brought up to
horsemanship on the plains of Greece. Her mood was varied, for now she
laughed at the humour of the scene, and now she was sad almost to
tears.

The streets were lined with thousands of the pleasure-loving people of
the city, who had come out to see the show of the Empress going in
state to the cathedral. They were gathered even on the flat house-tops
and in the entrances to the public buildings and open places. But the
glory of the sight was centred, not about me, with my escort of guards
and chanting priests, but in Irene's self. Preceded and followed by
glittering regiments of soldiers, she drove in her famous golden
chariot, drawn by eight milk-white steeds, each of which was led by a
bejewelled noble. Her dress was splendid and covered with sparkling
gems, and on her yellow hair she wore a crown. As she went the
multitudes shouted their welcome, and she bowed to right and left in
answer to the shouts. Now and again, however, bands of armed men, clad
in a dress of a peculiar colour, emerged from side streets and hooted,
crying:

"Where is the Augustus? Give us the Augustus. We will not be ruled by
a woman and her eunuchs!"

These men were of the party of Constantine, and set on by him. Once,
indeed, there was a tumult, for some of them tried to bar the road,
till they were driven away, leaving a few dead or wounded behind them.
But still the crowds shouted and the Empress bowed as though nothing
had happened, and thus by a somewhat winding route, we came to St.
Sophia.

The Augusta entered, and presently I and those with me followed her
into the wonderful cathedral. I see it now, not in particular, but as
a whole, with its endless columns, its aisles and apses, and its
glittering mosaics shining through the holy gloom, across which shot
bars of light from the high window-places. All the great place was
full of the noblest in the city, rank upon rank of them, come thither
to see the Empress in her glory at the great Feast of St. Michael,
which year by year she attended thus.

At the altar waited the Patriarch in his splendid robes, attended by
many bishops and priests, among them Barnabas of Egypt. The service
began, I and some other converts standing together near to the altar
rail. The details of it do not return to me. Sweet voices sang,
censers gave forth their incense, banners waved, and images of the
saints, standing everywhere, smiled upon us fixedly. Some of us were
baptised, and some who had already been baptised were received
publicly into the fellowship of the Church, I among them. My god-
father, Stauracius, a deacon prompting him, and my god-mother,
Martina, spoke certain words on my behalf, and I also spoke certain
words which I had learned.

The splendid Patriarch, a sour-faced man with a slight squint, gave me
his especial blessing. The Bishop Barnabas, upon whom, as I noted, the
Patriarch was always careful to turn his back, offered up a prayer. My
god-father and god-mother embraced me, Stauracius smacking the air at
a distance, for which I was grateful, and Martina touching me gently
with her lips upon the brow. The Empress smiled upon me and, as I
passed her, patted me on the shoulder. Then the Sacrament was
celebrated, whereof the Empress partook first; next we converts, with
our god-parents, and afterwards a number of the congregation.

It was over at last. The Augusta and her attendants marched down the
cathedral towards the great western doors, priests followed, and,
among them, we converts, whom the people applauded openly.

Looking to right and left of me, for I was weary of keeping my gaze
fixed upon the floor, presently I caught sight of a face whilst as yet
it was far away. It seemed to draw me, I knew not why. The face was
that of a woman. She stood by an old and stately-looking man with a
white beard, the last of a line of worshippers next to the aisle along
which the procession passed, and I saw that she was young and fair.

Down the long, resounding aisle the procession marched slowly. Now I
was nearer to the face, and perceived that it was lovely as some rich-
hued flower. The large eyes were dark and soft as a deer's. The
complexion, too, was somewhat dark, as though the sun had kissed it.
The lips were red and curving, and about them played a little smile
that was full of mystery as the eyes were full of thought and
tenderness. The figure was delicate and rounded, but not so very tall.
All these things and others I noted, yet it was not by them that I was
drawn and held, but rather because I /knew this lady/.

She was the woman of whom, years ago, I had dreamed on the night on
which I broke into the Wanderer's tomb at Aar!

Never for one moment did I doubt me of this truth. I was sure. I was
sure. It did not even need, while she turned to whisper something to
her companion, that the cloak she wore should open a little, revealing
on her breast a necklace of emerald beetles separated by inlaid shells
of pale and ancient gold.

She was watching the procession with interest, yet somewhat idly, when
she caught sight of me, whom, from where she stood, she could scarcely
have seen before. Of a sudden her face grew doubtful and troubled,
like to that of one who has just received some hurt. She saw the
ornament about my neck. She turned pale and had she not gripped the
arm of the man beside her, would, I think, have fallen. Then her eyes
caught mine, and Fate had us in its net.

She leaned forward, gazing, gazing, all her soul in those dark eyes,
and I, too, gazed and gazed. The great cathedral vanished with its
glittering crowds, the sound of chanting and of feet that marched died
from my ears. In place of these I saw a mighty columned temple and two
stone figures, taller than pines, seated on a plain, and through the
moonlit silence heard a sweet voice murmuring:

"Farewell. For this life, farewell!"

Now we were near to each other, now I was passing her, I who might not
stay. My hand brushed hers, and oh! it was as though I had drunk a cup
of wine. A spirit entered into me and, bending, I whispered in her
ear, speaking in the Latin tongue, since Greek, which all knew, I did
not dare to use, "/Ave post secula!/" Greeting after the ages!

I saw her bosom heave; yes, and heard her whisper back:

"/Ave!/"

So she knew me also.



                              CHAPTER VI

                              HELIODORE

That night there was feasting at the palace, and I, Olaf, now known as
Michael, as a convert was one of the chief guests, so that for me
there was no escape. I sat very silent, so silent that the Augusta
frowned, though she was too far off to speak to me. The banquet came
to an end at last and before midnight I was free to go, still without
word from the Empress, who withdrew herself, as I thought in an ill-
humour.

I sought my bed, but in it knew little of sleep. I had found her for
whom during all the long years I had been searching, though I did not
understand that I was searching. After the ages I had found her and
she had found me. Her eyes said it, and, unless I dreamed, her sweet
voice said it also.

Who was she? Doubtless that Heliodore, daughter of Magas, the prince
of whom the Bishop Barnabas had spoken to me. Oh! now I understood
what he meant when he spoke of another necklace like to that I wore,
and yet would explain nothing. It lay upon the breast of Heliodore,
Heliodore who was such a one as he wished that I might wed. Well,
certainly I wished it too; but, alas! how could I wed, who was in
Irene's power, a toy for her to play with or to break? And how would
it fare with any woman whom it was known that I wished to wed? I must
be secret until she was gone from Constantinople, and in this way or
in that I could follow her. I, who had ever been open-minded, must
learn to keep my own counsel.

Now, too, I remembered how Barnabas had said the Augusta commanded
that this Prince Magas and his daughter should come to the palace as
her guests. Well, the place was vast, a town in itself, and likely
enough I should not see them there. Yet I longed to see one of them as
never I had longed for anything before. I was sure, also, that no
fears could keep us apart, even though I knew the road before me to be
full of dangers and of trials, knew that I went with my life in my
hand, the life of which I had been quite careless, but that now had
become so dear to me. For did not the world hold another to whom it
belonged?

The night passed away. I rose and went about my morning duties.
Scarcely were these finished when a messenger summoned me to the
presence of the Augusta. I followed him with a sinking heart, certain
that those woes which I had foreseen were about to begin. Also, now
there was no woman in the whole world whom I less wished to see than
Irene, Empress of the Earth.

I was led to the small audience chamber, whereof I have already
spoken, that on the floor of which was the mosaic of the goddess Venus
making pretence to kill her lover. There I found the Augusta seated in
a chair of State, the minister Stauracius, my god-father, who glowered
at me as I entered, some secretaries, and Martina, my god-mother, who
was the lady in attendance.

I saluted the Empress, who bowed graciously and said:

"General Olaf--nay, I forgot, General Michael, your god-father
Stauracius has something to say which I trust will please you as much
as it does him and me. Speak, Stauracius."

"Beloved god-son," began Stauracius, in a voice of sullen rage, "it
has pleased the Augusta to appoint you----"

"On the prayer and advice of me, Stauracius," interrupted the Empress.

"----On the prayer and advice of me, Stauracius," repeated the eunuch
like a talking bird, "to be one of her chamberlains and Master of the
Palace, at a salary of" (I forget the sum, but it was a great one)
"with all the power and perquisites to that office pertaining, in
reward of the services which you have rendered to her and the Empire.
Thank the Empress for her gracious favour."

"Nay," interrupted Irene again, "thank your beloved god-father
Stauracius, who has given me no peace until I offered you this
preferment which has suddenly become vacant, Stauracius alone knows
why, for I do not. Oh! you were wise, Olaf--I mean Michael--to choose
Stauracius for a god-father, though I warn him," she added archly,
"that in his natural love he must not push you forward too fast lest
others should begin to show that jealousy which is a stranger to his
noble nature. Come hither, Michael, and kiss my hand upon your
appointment."

So I advanced and, kneeling, kissed the Augusta's hand, according to
custom on such occasions, noting, as doubtless Stauracius did also,
that she pressed it hard enough against my lips. Then I rose and said:

"I thank the Augusta----"

"And my god-father Stauracius," she interrupted.

"----And my god-father Stauracius," I echoed, "for her and his
goodness towards me. Yet with humility I venture to say that I am a
soldier who knows nothing whatsoever of the duties of a chamberlain
and of a Master of the Palace, and, therefore, I beg that someone else
more competent may be chosen to fill these high offices."

On hearing these words Stauracius stared at me with his round and owl-
like eyes. Never before had he known an officer in Constantinople who
wished to decline power and more pay. Scarcely, indeed, could he
believe his ears. But the Augusta only laughed.

"Baptism has not changed you, Olaf," she said, "who ever were simple,
as I believe your duties will be. At any rate, your god-father and
god-mother will instruct you in them--especially your god-mother. So
no more of such foolish talk. Stauracius, you may be gone to attend to
the affairs of which we have been speaking, as I see you burn to do,
and take those secretaries with you, for the scratching of their pens
sets my teeth on edge. Bide here a moment, General, for as Master of
the Palace it will be your duty to receive certain guests to-day of
whom I wish to speak with you. Bide you also, Martina, that you may
remember my words in case this unpractised officer should forget
them."

Stauracius and his secretaries bowed themselves out, leaving the three
of us alone.

"Now, Olaf, or Michael--which do you wish to be called?"

"It is more easy for a man to alter his nature than his name," I
answered.

"Have you altered your nature? If so, your manners remain much what
they were. Well, then, be Olaf in private and Michael in public, for
often an alias is convenient enough. Hark! I would read you a lesson.
As the wise King Solomon said, 'Everything has its place and time.' It
is good to repent you of your sins and to think about your soul, but I
pray you do so no more at my feasts, especially when they are given in
your honour. Last night you sat at the board like a mummy at an
Egyptian banquet. Had your skull stood on it, filled with wine, it
could scarce have looked grimmer than did your face. Be more cheerful,
I pray you, or I will have you tonsured and promoted to be a bishop,
like that old heretic Barnabas of whom you are so fond. Ah! you smile
at last, and I am glad to see it. Now hearken again. This afternoon
there comes to the palace a certain old Egyptian named Magas, whom I
place in your especial charge, and with him his wife--at least, I
think she is his wife."

"Nay, Mistress, his daughter," interrupted Martina.

"Oh! his daughter," said the Augusta suspiciously. "I did not know she
was his daughter. What is she like, Martina?"

"I have not seen her, Empress, but someone said that she is a black-
looking woman, such as the Nile breeds."

"Is it so? Then I charge you, Olaf, keep her far from me, for I love
not these ugly black women, whose woolly hair always smells of grease.
Yes, I give you leave to court her, if you will, since thereby you may
learn some secrets," and she laughed merrily.

I bowed, saying that I would obey the Augusta's orders to the best of
my power, and she went on:

"Olaf, I would discover the truth concerning this Magas and his
schemes, which as a soldier you are well fitted to find out. It seems
he has a plan for the recovery of Egypt out of the hands of the
followers of that accursed false prophet whose soul dwells with Satan.
Now, I would win back Egypt, if I may, and thereby add glory to my
name and the Empire. Hear all that he proposes, study it well, and
make report to me. Afterwards I will see him alone, who for the
present will send him a letter by the hand of Martina here bidding him
open all his heart to you. For a week or more I shall have no time to
spend upon this Magas, who must give myself to business upon which
hangs my power and perchance my life."

These words she spoke heavily, then fell into a fit of brooding.
Rousing herself, she went on:

"Did you note yesterday, Olaf, if you had any mind left for the things
of earth, that as I drove in state through the streets many met me
with sullen silence, while others cursed me openly and shouted, 'Where
is the Augustus?' 'Give us Constantine. We will have no woman's
rule.'"

"I saw and heard something of these things, Augusta; also that certain
of the soldiers on guard in the city had a mutinous air."

"Aye, but what you did not see and hear was that a plot had been laid
to murder me in the cathedral. I got wind of it in time and if you
were still governor of yonder prison you'd know where the murderers
are to-day. Yet they're but tools; it is their captains whom I want.
Well, torture may make them speak; Stauracius has gone to see to it.
Oh! the strife is fierce and doubtful. I walk blindfold along a
precipice. Above are Fortune's heights, and beneath black ruin.
Perhaps you'd be wise to get you to Constantine, Olaf, and become his
man, as many are doing, since he'd be glad of you. No need to shake
your head, for that's not your way; you are no hound to bite the hand
that feeds you, like these street-bred dogs. Would that I could keep
you nearer to me, where hour by hour you might help me with your
counsel and your quiet strength. But it may not be--as yet. I raise
you as high as I dare, but it must be done step by step, for even now
some grow jealous. Take heed to what you eat, Olaf. See that your
guards are Northmen, and beneath your doublet wear mail, especially at
night. Moreover, unless I send for you, do not come near me too often,
and, when we meet, be my humble servant, like others; aye, learn to
crawl and kiss the ground. Above all, keep secret as the grave.

"Now," she went on after a pause, during which I stood silent, "what
is there more? Oh! with your new offices, you'll retain that of
captain of my guard, for I would be well watched during these next few
weeks. Follow up the matter of the Egyptian; you may find advancement
in it. Perchance one day you will be the general I send against the
Moslems--if I can spare you. On all this matter be secret also, for
once rumour buzzes over it that peach rots. The Egyptian and his
swarthy girl come to the palace to-day, when he will receive my
letter. Meet him and see them well housed, though not too near me;
Martina will help you. Now be gone and leave me to my battles."

So I went, and she watched me to the door with eyes that were full of
tenderness.



Again there is a blank in my memory, or my vision. I suppose that
Magas and his daughter Heliodore arrived at the palace on the day of
my interview with Irene, of which I have told. I suppose that I
welcomed them and conducted them to the guest house that had been made
ready for them in the gardens. Doubtless, I listened eagerly to the
first words which Heliodore spoke to me, save that one in the
cathedral, the word of greeting. Doubtless, I asked her many things,
and she gave me many answers. But of all this nothing remains.

What comes back to me is a picture of the Egyptian prince, Magas, and
myself seated at some meal in a chamber overlooking the moonlit palace
garden. We were alone, and this noble, white-bearded man, hook-nosed
and hawk-eyed, was telling me of the troubles of his countrymen, the
Christian Copts of Egypt.

"Look on me, sir," he said. "As I could prove to you, were it worth
while, and as many could bear witness, for the records have been kept,
I am a descendant in the true line from the ancient Pharaohs of my
country. Moreover, my daughter, through her Grecian mother, is sprung
from the Ptolemies. Our race is Christian, and has been for these
three hundred years, although it was among the last to be converted.
Yet, noble as we are, we suffer every wrong at the hands of the
Moslems. Our goods and lands are doubly taxed, and, if we should go
into the towns of Lower Egypt, we must wear garments on which the
Cross is broidered as a badge of shame. Yet, where I live--near to the
first cataract of the Nile, and not so very far from the city of old
Thebes--the Prophet-worshippers have no real power. I am still the
true ruler of that district, as the Bishop Barnabas will tell you, and
at any moment, were my standard to be lifted, I could call three
thousand Coptic spears to fight for Christ and Egypt. Moreover, if
money were forthcoming, the hosts of Nubia could be raised, and
together we might sweep down on the Moslems like the Nile in flood,
and drive them back to Alexandria."

Then he went on to set out his plans, which in sum were that a Roman
fleet and army should appear at the mouths of the Nile to besiege and
capture Alexandria, and, with his help, massacre or drive out every
Moslem in Egypt. The scheme, which he set forth with much detail,
seemed feasible enough, and when I had mastered its particulars I
promised to report it to the Empress, and afterwards to speak with him
further.

I left the chamber, and presently stood in the garden. Although it was
autumn time, the night in this mild climate was very warm and
pleasant, and the moonlight threw black shadows of the trees across
the paths. Under one of these trees, an ancient, green-leaved oak, the
largest of a little grove, I saw a woman sitting. Perchance I knew who
she was, perchance I had come thither to meet her, I cannot say. At
least, this was not our first meeting by many, for as I came she rose,
lifting her flower-like face towards my own, and next moment was in my
arms.

When we had kissed our full, we began to talk, seated hand in hand
beneath the oak.

"What have you been doing this day, beloved?" she asked.

"Much what I do every day, Heliodore. I have attended to my duties,
which are threefold, as Chamberlain, as Master of the Palace, and as
Captain of the Guard. Also, for a little while, I saw the Augusta, to
whom I had to report various matters. The interview was brief, since a
rumour had reached her that the Armenian regiments refuse to take the
oath of fidelity to her alone, as she has commanded should be done,
and demand that the name of the Emperor, her son, should be coupled
with hers, as before. This report disturbed her much, so that she had
little time for other business."

"Did you speak of my father's matter, Olaf?"

"Aye, shortly. She listened, and asked whether I were sure that I had
got the truth from him. She added that I had best test it by what I
could win from you by any arts that a man may use. For, Heliodore,
because of something that my god-mother, Martina, said to her, it is
fixed in her mind that you are black-skinned and very ugly. Therefore,
the Augusta, who does not like any man about her to care for other
women, thinks I may make love to you with safety. So I prayed for
leave from my duties on the guard this evening that I might sup with
your father in the guest-house, and see what I could learn from one or
both of you."

"Love makes you clever, Olaf. But hearken. I do not believe that the
Empress thinks me black and ugly any longer. As it chanced while I
walked in the inner garden this afternoon, where you said I might go
when I wished to be quite alone, dreaming of our love and you, I
looked up and saw an imperial woman of middle age, who was gorgeous as
a peacock, watching me from a little distance. I went on my way,
pretending to see no one, and heard the lady say:

"'Has all this trouble driven me mad, Martina, or did I behold a woman
beautiful as one of the nymphs of my people's fables wandering yonder
among those bushes?'

"I repeat her very words, Olaf, not because they are true--for,
remember, she saw me at a distance and against a background of rocks
and autumn flowers--but because they were her words, which I think you
ought to hear, with those that followed them."

"Irene has said many false things in her life," I said, smiling, "but
by all the Saints these were not among them."

Then we embraced again, and after that was finished Heliodore, her
head resting on my shoulder, continued her story:

"'What was she like, Mistress?' asked the lady Martina, for by this
time I had passed behind some little trees. 'I have seen no one who is
beautiful in this garden except yourself.'

"'She was clad in a clinging white robe, Martina, that left her arms
and bosom bare'--being alone, Olaf, I wore my Egyptian dress beneath
my cloak, which I had laid down because of the heat of the sun. 'She
was not so very tall, yet rounded and most graceful. Her eyes seemed
large and dark, Martina, like her hair; her face was tinted like a
rich-hued rose. Oh! were I a man she seemed such a one as I should
love, who, like all my people, have ever worshipped beauty. Yet, what
did I say, that she put me in mind of a nymph of Greece. Nay, that was
not so. It was of a goddess of Old Egypt that she put me in mind, for
on her face was the dreaming smile which I have seen on that of a
statue of mother Isis whom the Egyptians worshipped. Moreover, she
wore just such a headdress as I have noted upon those statues.'

"Now the lady Martina answered: 'Surely, you must have dreamed,
Mistress. The only Egyptian woman in the palace is the daughter of the
old Coptic noble, Magas, who is in Olaf's charge, and though I am told
that she is not so ugly as I heard at first, Olaf has never said to me
that she was like a goddess. What you saw was doubtless some image of
Fortune conjured up by your mind. This I take to be the best of omens,
who in these doubtful days grow superstitious.'

"'Would Olaf tell one woman that another was like a goddess, Martina,
even though she to whom he spoke was his god-mother and a dozen years
younger than himself? Come,' she added, 'and let us see if we can find
this Egyptian.'

"Then," Heliodore went on, "not knowing what to do, I stood still
there against the rockwork and the flowers till presently, round the
bushes, appeared the splendid lady and Martina."

Now when I, Olaf, heard all this, I groaned and said:

"Oh! Heliodore, it was the Augusta herself."

"Yes, it was the Augusta, as I learned presently. Well, they came, and
I curtsied to them.

"'Are you the daughter of Magas, the Egyptian?' asked the lady, eyeing
me from head to foot.

"'Yes, Madam,' I answered. 'I am Heliodore, the daughter of Magas. I
pray that I have done no wrong in walking in this garden, but the
General Olaf, the Master of the Palace, gave me leave to come here.'

"'And did the General Olaf, whom we know as Michael, give you that
necklace which you wear, also, O Daughter of Magas? Nay, you must
needs answer me, for I am the Augusta.'

"Now I curtsied again, and said:

"'Not so, O Augusta; the necklace is from Old Egypt, and was found
upon the body of a royal lady in a tomb. I have worn it for many
years.'

"'Indeed, and that which the General Michael wears came also from a
tomb.'

"'Yes, he told me so, Augusta,' I said.

"'It would seem that the two must once have been one, Daughter of
Magas?'

"'It may be so, Augusta; I do not know.'

"Now the Empress looked about her, and the lady Martina, dropping
behind, began to fan herself.

"'Are you married, girl?' she asked.

"'No,' I answered.

"'Are you affianced?'

"Now I hesitated a little, then answered 'No' again.

"'You seem to be somewhat doubtful on the point. Farewell for this
while. When you walk abroad in our garden, which is open to you, be
pleased to array yourself in the dress of our country, and not in that
of a courtesan of Egypt.'"

"What did you answer to that saying?" I asked.

"That which was not wise, I fear, Olaf, for my temper stirred me. I
answered: 'Madam, I thank you for your permission to walk in your
garden. If ever I should do so again as your guest, be sure that I
will not wear garments which, before Byzantium was a village, were
sacred to the gods of my country and those of my ancestors the Queens
of Egypt.'"

"And then?" I asked.

"The Empress answered: 'Well spoken! Such would have been my own words
had I been in your place. Moreover, they are true, and the robe
becomes you well. Yet presume not too far, girl, seeing that Byzantium
is no longer a village, and Egypt has some fanatic Moslem for a
Pharaoh, who thinks little of your ancient blood.'

"So I bowed and went, and as I walked away heard the Empress rating
the lady Martina about I know not what, save that your name came into
the matter, and my own. Why does this Empress talk so much about you,
Olaf, seeing that she has many officers who are higher in her service,
and why was she so moved about this matter of the necklace of golden
shells?"

"Heliodore," I answered, "I must tell now what I have hidden from you.
The Augusta has been pleased--why, I cannot say, but chiefly, I
suppose, because of late years it has been my fancy to keep myself
apart from women, which is rare in this land--to show me certain
favour. I gather, even, that, whether she means it or means it not,
she has thought of me as a husband."

"Oh!" interrupted Heliodore, starting away from me, "now I understand
everything. And, pray, have you thought as a wife of her, who has been
a widow these ten years and has a son of twenty?"

"God above us alone knows what I have or have not thought, but it is
certain that at present I think of her only as one who has been most
kind to me, but who is more to be feared than my worst foe, if I have
any."

"Hush!" she said, raising her finger. "I fancied I heard someone stir
behind us."

"Fear nothing," I answered. "We are alone here, for I set guards of my
own company around the place, with command to admit no one, and my
order runs against all save the Empress in person."

"Then we are safe, Olaf, since this damp would disarrange her hair,
which, I noted, is curled with irons, not by Nature, like my own. Oh!
Olaf, Olaf, how wonderful is the fate that has brought us together. I
say that when I saw you yonder in the cathedral for the first time
since I was born, I knew you again, as you knew me. That is why, when
you whispered to me, 'Greeting after the ages,' I gave you back your
welcome. I know nothing of the past. If we lived and loved before,
that tale is lost to me. But there's your dream and there's the
necklace. When I was a child, Olaf, it was taken from the embalmed
body of some royal woman, who, by tradition, was of my own race, yes,
and by records of which my father can tell you, for he is among the
last who can still read the writing of the old Egyptians. Moreover,
she was very like me, Olaf, for I remember her well as she lay in her
coffin, preserved by arts which the Egyptians had. She was young, not
much older than I am to-day, and her story tells that she died in
giving birth to a son, who grew up a strong and vigorous man, and
although he was but half royal, founded a new dynasty in Egypt and
became my forefather. This necklace lay upon her breast, and beneath
it a writing on papyrus, which said that when the half of it which was
lost should be joined again to that half, then those who had worn them
would meet once more as mortals. Now the two halves of the necklace
have met, and /we/ have met as God decreed, and it is one and we are
one for ever and for ever, let every Empress of the earth do what they
will to part us."

"Aye," I answered, embracing her again, "we are one for ever and for
ever, though perchance for a while we may be separated from time to
time."



                             CHAPTER VII

                         VICTORY OR VALHALLA!

A minute later I heard a rustle as of branches being moved by people
thrusting their way through them. A choked voice commanded,

"Take him living or dead."

Armed men appeared about us, four of them, and one cried "Yield!"

I sprang up and drew the Wanderer's sword.

"Who orders the General Michael to yield in his own command?" I asked.

"I do," answered the man. "Yield or die!"

Now, thinking that these were robbers or murderers hired by some
enemy, I sprang at him, nor was that battle long, for at my first
stroke he fell dead. Then the other three set on me. But I wore mail
beneath my doublet, as Irene had bade me do, and their swords glanced.
Moreover, the old northern rage entered into me, and these easterners
were no match for my skill and strength. First one and then another of
them went down, whereon the third fled away, taking with him a grizzly
wound behind, for I struck him as he fled.

"Now it seems there is an end of that," I gasped to Heliodore, who was
crouched upon the seat. "Come, let me take you to your father and
summon my guards, ere we meet more of these murderers."

As I spoke a cloaked and hooded woman glided from the shelter of the
trees behind and stood before us. She threw back the hood from her
head and the moonlight fell upon her face. It was that of the Empress,
but oh! so changed by jealous rage that I should scarce have known
her. The large eyes seemed to flash fire, the cheeks were white, save
where they had been touched with paint, the lips trembled. Twice she
tried to speak and failed, but at the third effort words came.

"Nay, all is but begun," she said in a voice that was full of hate.
"Know that I have heard your every word. So, traitor, you would tell
my secrets to this Egyptian slut and then murder my own servants," and
she pointed to the dead and wounded men. "Well, you shall pay for it,
both of you, that I swear."

"Is it murder, Augusta," I asked, saluting, "when four assail one man,
and, thinking them assassins, he fights for his life and wins the
fray?"

"What are four such curs against you? I should have brought a dozen.
Yet it was at me you struck. Whate'er they did I ordered them to do."

"Had I known it, Augusta, I would never have drawn sword, who am your
officer and obedient to the end."

"Nay, you'd stab me with your tongue, not with your sword," she
answered with something like a sob. "You say you are my obedient
officer. Well, now we will see. Smite me that bold-faced baggage dead,
or smite /me/ dead, I care not which, then fall upon your sword."

"The first I cannot do, Augusta, for it would be murder against one
who has done no wrong, and I will not stain my soul with murder."

"Done no wrong! Has she not mocked me, my years, my widowhood, yes,
and even my hair, in the pride of her--her youth, me, the Empress of
the World?"

Now Heliodore spoke for the first time.

"And has not the Empress of the World called a poor maid of blood as
noble as her own by shameful names?" she asked.

"For the second," I went on before Irene could answer, "I cannot do
that either, for it would be foul treason as well as murder to lift my
sword against your anointed Majesty. But as for the third, as is my
duty, that I will do--or rather suffer your servants to do--if it
pleases you to repeat the order later when you are calm."

"What!" cried Heliodore, "would you go and leave me here? Then, Olaf,
by the gods my forefathers worshipped for ten thousand years, and by
the gods I worship, I'll find a means to follow you within an hour.
Oh! Empress of the World, there is another world you do not rule, and
there we'll call you to account."

Now Irene stared at Heliodore, and Heliodore stared back at her, and
the sight was very strange.

"At least you have spirit, girl. But think not that shall save you,
for there's no room for both of us on earth."

"If I go it may prove wide enough, Augusta," I broke in.

"Nay, you shall not go, Olaf, at least not yet. My orders are that you
do /not/ fall upon your sword. As for this Egyptian witch, well,
presently my people will be here; then we will see."

Now I drew Heliodore to the trunk of the great tree which stood near
by and set myself in front of her.

"What are you about to do?" asked the Empress.

"I am about to fight your eastern curs until I fall, for no northern
man will lift a sword against me, even on your orders, Augusta. When I
am down, this lady must play her own part as God shall guide her."

"Have no fear, Olaf," Heliodore said gently, "I wear a dagger."

Scarcely had she spoken when there was a sound of many feet. The man
whom I had wounded had run shouting towards the palace, rousing the
soldiers, both those on watch and those in their quarters. Now these
began to arrive and to gather in the glade before the clump of trees,
for some guards who had heard the clash of arms guided them to the
place. They were of all races and sundry regiments, Greeks,
Byzantines, Bulgars, Armenians, so-called Romans, and with them a
number of Britons and northern men.

Seeing the Empress and, near by, myself standing with drawn sword
against the tree sheltering the lady Heliodore, also on the ground
those whom I had cut down, they halted. One of their officers asked
what they must do.

"Kill me that man who has slain my servants, or stay--take him
living," screamed the Augusta.

Now among those who had gathered was a certain lieutenant of my own, a
blue-eyed, flaxen-haired Norwegian giant of the name of Jodd. This man
loved me like a brother, I believe because once it had been my fortune
to save his life. Also often I had proved his friend when he was in
trouble, for in those days Jodd got drunk at times, and when he was
drunk lost money which he could not pay.

Now, when he saw my case, I noted that this Jodd, who, if sober, was
no fool at all, although he seemed so slow and stupid, whispered
something to a comrade who was with him, whereon the man turned and
fled away like an arrow. From the direction in which he went I guessed
at once that he was running to the barracks close at hand, where were
stationed quite three hundred Northmen, all of whom were under my
command.

The soldiers prepared to obey the Augusta's orders, as they were bound
to do. They drew their swords and a number of them advanced towards me
slowly. Then it was that Jodd, with a few Northmen, moved between them
and me, and, saluting the Empress, said in his bad Greek,

"Your pardon, Augusta, but why are we asked to kill our own general?"

"Obey my orders, fellow," she answered.

"Your pardon, Augusta," said the stolid Jodd, "but before we kill our
own general, whom you commanded us to obey in all things, we would
know why we must kill him. It is a custom of our country that no man
shall be killed until he has been heard. General Olaf," and drawing
his short sword for the first time, he saluted me in form, "be pleased
to explain to us why you are to be killed or taken prisoner."

Now a tumult arose, and a eunuch in the background shouted to the
soldiers to obey the Empress's orders, whereon again some of them
began to advance.

"If no answer is given to my question," went on Jodd in his slow,
bull-like voice, "I fear that others must be killed besides the
General Olaf. Ho! Northmen. To me, Northmen! Ho! Britons, to me,
Britons! Ho! Saxons, to me, Saxons! Ho! all who are not accursed
Greeks. To me all who are not accursed Greeks!"

Now at each cry of Jodd's men leapt forward from the gathering crowd,
and, to the number of fifty or more in all, marshalled themselves
behind him, those of each nation standing shoulder to shoulder in
little groups before me.

"Is my question to be answered?" asked Jodd. "Because, if not,
although we be but one against ten, I think that ere the General Olaf
is cut down or taken there will be good fighting this night."

Then I spoke, saying,

"Captain Jodd, and comrades, I will answer your question, and if I
speak wrongly let the Augusta correct me. This is the trouble. The
lady Heliodore here is my affianced wife. We were speaking together in
this garden as the affianced do. The Empress, who, unseen by us, was
hidden behind those trees, overheard our talk, which, for reasons best
known to herself, for in it there was naught of treason or any matter
of the State, made her so angry that she set her servants on to kill
me. Thinking them murderers or robbers, I defended myself, and there
they lie, save one, who fled away wounded. Then the Empress appeared
and ordered me to kill the lady Heliodore. Comrades, look on her whom
the Empress ordered me to kill, and say whether, were she your
affianced, you would kill her even to please the Empress," and,
stepping to one side, I showed them Heliodore in all her loveliness
standing against the tree, the drawn dagger in her hand.

Now from those that Jodd had summoned there went up a roar of "/No/,"
while even the rest were silent. Irene sprang forward and cried,

"Are my orders to be canvassed and debated? Obey! Cut this man down or
take him living, I care not which, and with him all who cling to him,
or to-morrow you hang, every one of you."

Now the soldiers who had gathered also began to form up under their
officers, for they saw that before them was war and death. By this
time they were many, and as the alarm spread minute by minute more
arrived.

"Yield or we attack," said he who had taken command of them.

"I do not think that we yield," answered Jodd; and just then there
came a sound of men running in ordered companies from the direction of
the Northmen's barracks were Jodd's messenger had told his tale.

"I am /sure/ that we do not yield," continued Jodd, and suddenly
raised the wild northern war-cry, "/Valhalla, Valhalla! Victory or
Valhalla!/"

Instantly from three hundred throats, above the sound of the running
feet that drew ever nearer, came the answering shout of "/Valhalla,
Valhalla! Victory or Valhalla!/" Then out of the gloom up dashed the
Northmen.

Now other shouts arose of "Olaf! Olaf! Olaf! Where is our General
Olaf? Where is Red-Sword?"

"Here, comrades!" roared Jodd, and up they came those fierce, bearded
men, glad with the lust of battle, and ranged themselves by companies
before us. Again the great voice of Jodd was heard, calling,

"Empress, do you give us Olaf and his girl and swear by your Christ
that no harm shall come to them? Or must we take them for ourselves?"

"Never!" she cried back. "The only thing I give to you is death. On to
these rebels, soldiers!"

Now, seeing what must come, I strove to speak, but Jodd shouted again,

"Be silent, Olaf. For this hour you are not our general; you are a
prisoner whom it pleases us to rescue. Ring him round, Northmen, ring
him round. Bring the Empress, too; she will serve as hostage."

Now some of them drew behind us. Then they began to advance, taking us
along with them, and I, who was skilled in war, saw their purpose.
They were drawing out into the open glade, where they could see to
fight, and where their flanks would be protected by a stream of water
on the one hand and a dense belt of trees on the other.

In her rage the Empress threw herself upon the ground, but two great
fellows lifted her up by the arms and thrust her along with us.
Marching thus, we reached the point that they had chosen, for the
Greeks were in confusion and not ready to attack. There we halted,
just on the crest of a little rise of ground.

"Augusta," I said, "in the name of God, I pray you to give way. These
Northmen hate your Byzantines, and will take this chance to pay off
their scores. Moreover, they love me, and will die to a man ere they
see me harmed, and then how shall I protect you in the fray?"

She only glared at me and made no answer.

The attack began. By this time fifteen hundred or so of the Imperial
troops had collected, and against them stood, perhaps, four hundred
men in all, so that the odds were great. Still, they had no horsemen
or archers, and our position was very good, also we were Northmen and
they were Grecian scum.

On came the Byzantines, screaming "Irene! Irene!" in a formation of
companies ranged one behind the other, for their object was to break
in our centre by their weight. Jodd saw, and gave some orders; very
good orders, I thought them. Then he sheathed his short-sword, seized
the great battle-axe which was his favourite weapon, and placed
himself in front of our triple line that waited in dead silence.

Up the slope surged the charge, and on the crest of it the battle met.
At first the weight of the Greeks pressed us back, but, oh! they went
down before the Northmen's steel like corn before the sickle, and soon
that rush was stayed. Breast to breast they hewed and thrust, and so
fearful was the fray that Irene, forgetting her rage, clung to me to
protect her.

The fight hung doubtful. As in a dream, I watched the giant Jodd cut
down a gorgeous captain, the axe shearing through his golden armour as
though it were but silk. I watched a comrade of my own fall beneath a
spear-thrust. I gazed at the face of Heliodore, who stared wide-eyed
at the red scene, and at the white-lipped Irene, who was clinging to
my arm. Now we were being pressed back again, we who at this point had
at most two hundred men, some of whom were down, to bear the onslaught
of twice that number, and, do what I would, my fingers strayed to my
sword-hilt.

Our triple line bent in like a bow and began to break. The scales of
war hung on the turn, when, from the dense belt of trees upon our
left, suddenly rose the cry of "/Valhalla! Valhalla! Victory or
Valhalla!/" for which I, who had overheard Jodd's orders, was waiting.
These were his orders--that half of the Northmen should creep down
behind the belt of trees in their dense shadow, and thus outflank the
foe.

Forth they sprang by companies of fifty, the moonlight gleaming on
their mail, and there, three hundred yards away, a new battle was
begun. Now the Greeks in front of us, fearing for their rear, wavered
a moment and fell back, perhaps, ten paces. I saw the opportunity and
could bear no more, who before all things was a soldier.

Shouting to some of our wounded to watch the women, I drew my sword
and leapt forward.

"I come, Northmen!" I cried, and was greeted with a roar of:

"Olaf Red-Sword! Follow Olaf Red-Sword!" for so the soldiers named me.

"Steady, Northmen! Shoulder to shoulder, Northmen!" I cried back. "Now
at them! Charge! /Valhalla! Victory or Valhalla!/"

Down the slope they went before our rush. In thirty paces they were
but a huddled mob, on which our swords played like lightnings. We
rolled them back on to their supports, and those supports, outflanked,
began to flee. We swept through and through them. We slew them by
hundreds, we trod them beneath our victorious feet, and--oh! in that
battle a strange thing happened to me. I thought I saw my dead brother
Ragnar fighting at my side; aye, and I thought I heard him cry to me,
in that lost, remembered voice:

"The old blood runs in you yet, you Christian man! Oh! you fight well,
you Christian man. We of Valhalla give you greetings, Olaf Red-Sword.
/Valhalla! Valhalla! Victory or Valhalla!/"

It was done. Some were fled, but more were dead, for, once at grips,
the Northman showed no mercy to the Greek. Back we came, those who
were left of us, for many, perhaps a hundred, were not, and formed a
ring round the women and the wounded.

"Well done, Olaf," said Heliodore; but Irene only looked at me with a
kind of wonder in her eyes.

Now the leaders of the Northmen began to talk among themselves, but
although from time to time they glanced at me, they did not ask me to
join in their talk. Presently Jodd came forward and said in his slow
voice:

"Olaf Red-Sword, we love you, who have always loved us, your comrades,
as we have shown you to-night. You have led us well, Olaf, and,
considering our small numbers, we have just won a victory of which we
are proud. But our necks are in the noose, as yours is, and we think
that in this case our best course is to be bold. Therefore, we name
you Csar. Having defeated the Greeks, we propose now to take the
palace and to talk with the regiments without, many of whom are
disloyal and shout for Constantine, whom after all they hate only a
little less than they do Irene yonder. We know not what will be the
end of the matter and do not greatly care, who set our fortunes upon a
throw of the dice, but we think there is a good chance of victory. Do
you accept, and will you throw in your sword with ours?"

"How can I," I answered, "when there stands the Empress, whose bread I
have eaten and to whom I have sworn fealty?"

"An Empress, it seems, who desires to slay you over some matter that
has to do with a woman. Olaf, the daggers of her assassins have cut
this thread of fealty. Moreover, as it chances she is in our power,
and as we cannot make our crime against her blacker than it is, we
propose to rid you and ourselves of this Empress, who is our enemy,
and who for her great wickedness well deserves to die. Such is our
offer, to take or to leave, as time is short. Should you refuse it, we
abandon you to your fate, and go to make our terms with Constantine,
who also hates this Empress and even now is plotting her downfall."

As he spoke I saw certain men draw near to Irene for a purpose which I
could guess, and stepped between her and them.

"The Augusta is my mistress," I said, "and although I attacked some of
her troops but now, and she has wronged me much, still I defend her to
the last."

"Little use in that, Olaf, seeing that you are but one and we are
many," answered Jodd. "Come, will you be Csar, or will you not?"

Now Irene crept up behind me and whispered in my ear.

"Accept," she said. "It pleases me well. Be Csar as my husband. So
you will save my life and my throne, of which I vow to you an equal
share. With the help of your Northmen and the legions I command and
who cling to me, we can defeat Constantine and rule the world
together. This petty fray is nothing. What matters it if some lives
have been lost in a palace tumult? The world lies in your grasp; take
it, Olaf, and, with it, /me/."

I heard and understood. Now had come the great moment of my life.
Something told me that on the one hand were majesty and empire; on the
other much pain and sorrow yet with these a certain holy joy and
peace. It was the latter that I chose, as doubtless Fate or God had
decreed that I should do.

"I thank you, Augusta," I said, "but, while I can protect her, I will
not seize a throne over the body of one who has been kind to me, nor
will I buy it at the price you offer. There stands my predestined
wife, and I can marry no other woman."

Now Irene turned to Heliodore, and said in a swift, low voice:

"Do you understand this matter, lady? Let us have done with jealousies
and be plain, for the lives of all of us hang upon threads that, for
some, must break within a day or two, and with them those of a
thousand, thousand others. Aye, the destiny of the world is at stake.
You say you love this man, whom I will tell you I love also. Well, if
/you/ win him, and he lives, which he scarce can hope to do, he gets
your kisses in whatever corner of the earth will shelter him and you.
If /I/ win him, the empire of the earth is his. Moreover, girl," she
added with meaning, "empresses are not always jealous; sometimes even
they can look the other way. There would be high place for you within
our Court, and, who knows? Your turn might come at length. Also your
father's plans would be forwarded to the last pound of gold in our
treasury and the last soldier in our service. Within five years,
mayhap, he might rule Egypt as our Governor. What say you?"

Heliodore looked at the Empress with that strange, slow smile of hers.
Then she looked at me, and answered:

"I say what Olaf says. There are two empires in the case. One, which
you can give, Augusta, is of the world; the other, which I can give
him here, is only a woman's heart, yet, as I think, of another eternal
world that you do not know. I say what Olaf says. Let Olaf speak,
Augusta."

"Empress," I said slowly, "again I thank you, but it may not be. My
fate lies here," and I laid my hand upon the heart of Heliodore.

"You are mistaken, Olaf," answered the Empress, in a cold and quiet
voice, but seemingly without anger; "your fate lies there," and she
pointed to the ground, then added, "Believe me, I am sorry, for you
are a man of whom any woman might be proud--yes, even an empress. I
have always thought it, and I thought it again just now when I saw you
lead that charge against those curs in armour," and she pointed
towards the bodies of the Greeks. "So, it is finished, as perchance I
am. If I must die, let it be on your sword, Olaf."

"Your answer, Olaf Red-Sword!" called Jodd. "You have talked enough."

"Your answer! Yes, your answer!" the Northmen echoed.

"The Empress has offered to share her crown with me, Jodd, but,
friends, it cannot be, because of this lady to whom I am affianced."

"Marry them both," shouted a rude voice, but Jodd replied:

"Then that is soon settled. Out of our path, Olaf, and look the other
way. When you turn your head again there will be no Empress to trouble
you, except one of your own choosing."

On hearing these words, and seeing the swords draw near, Irene
clutched hold of me, for always she feared death above everything.

"You will not see me butchered?" she gasped.

"Not while I live," I answered. "Hearken, friends. I am the general of
the Augusta's guard, and if she dies, for honour's sake I must die
first. Strike, then, if you will, but through my body."

"Tear her away!" called a voice.

"Comrades," I went on, "be not so mad. To-night we have done that
which has earned us death, but while the Empress lives you have a
hostage in your hands with whom you can buy pardon. As a lump of clay
what worth is she to you? Hark! The regiments from the city!"

As I spoke, from the direction of the palace came a sound of many
voices and of the tread of five thousand feet.

"True enough," said Jodd, with composure. "They are on us, and now it
is too late to storm the palace. Olaf, like many another man, you have
lost your chance of glory for a woman, or, who knows, perhaps you've
won it. Well, comrades, as I take it you are not minded to fly and be
hunted down like rats, only one thing remains--to die in a fashion
they will remember in Byzantium. Olaf, you'd best mind the women; I
will take command. Ring round, comrades, ring round! 'Tis a good place
for it. Set the wounded in the middle. Keep that Empress living for
the present, but when all is done, kill her. We'll be her escort to
the gates of hell, for there she's bound if ever woman was."

Then, without murmur or complaint, almost in silence, indeed, they
formed Odin's Ring, that triple circle of the Northmen doomed to die;
the terrible circle that on many a battlefield has been hidden at last
beneath the heap of fallen foes.

The regiments moved up; there were three of them of full strength.
Irene stared about her, seeking some loophole of escape, and finding
none. Heliodore and I talked together in low tones, making our tryst
beyond the grave. The regiments halted within fifty paces of us. They
liked not the look of Odin's Ring, and the ground over which they had
marched and the fugitives with whom they had spoken told them that
many of them looked their last upon the moon.

Some mounted generals rode towards us and asked who was in command of
the Northmen. When they learned that it was Jodd, they invited him to
a parley. The end of it was that Jodd and two others stepped twenty
paces from our ranks, and met a councillor--it was Stauracius--and two
of the generals in the open, where no treachery could well be
practised, especially as Stauracius was not a man of war. Here they
talked together for a long while. Then Jodd and his companions
returned, and Jodd said, so that all might hear him:

"Hearken. These are the terms offered: That we return to our barracks
in peace, bearing our weapons. That nothing be laid to our charge
under any law, military or civil, by the State or private persons, for
this night's slaying and tumult, and that in guarantee thereof twelve
hostages of high rank, upon whose names we have agreed, be given into
our keeping. That we retain our separate stations in the service of
the Empire, or have leave to quit that service within three months,
with the gratuity of a quarter's pay, and go where we will unmolested.
But that, in return for these boons, we surrender the person of the
Empress unharmed, and with her that of the General Olaf, to whom a
fair trial is promised before a military court. That with her own
voice the Augusta shall confirm all these undertakings before she
leaves our ranks. Such is the offer, comrades."

"And if we refuse it, what?" asked a voice.

"This: That we shall be ringed round, and either starved out or shot
down by archers. Or, if we try to escape, that we shall be overwhelmed
by numbers, and any of us who chance to be taken living shall be
hanged, sound and wounded together."

Now the leaders of the Northmen consulted. Irene watched them for
awhile, then turned to me and asked,

"What will they do, Olaf?"

"I cannot say, Augusta," I answered, "but I think that they will offer
to surrender you and not myself, since they may doubt them of that
fair trial which is promised to me."

"Which means," she said, "that, whether I live or die, all these brave
men will be sacrificed to you, Olaf, who, after all, must perish with
them, as will this Egyptian. Are you prepared to accept that blood-
offering, Olaf? If so, you must have changed from the man I loved."

"No, Augusta," I answered, "I am not prepared. Rather would I trust
myself into your power, Augusta."

The conference of the officers had come to an end. Their leader
advanced and said,

"We accept the terms, except as to the matter of Olaf Red-Sword. The
Empress may go free, but Olaf Red-Sword, our general whom we love, we
will not surrender. First will we die."

"Good!" said Jodd. "I looked for such words from you."

Then he marched out, with his companions, and again met Stauracius and
the two generals of the Greeks. After they had talked a little while
he returned and said,

"Those two officers, being men, would have agreed, but Stauracius, the
eunuch, who seems in command, will not agree. He says that Olaf Red-
Sword must be surrendered with the Empress. We answered that in this
case soon there would be no Empress to surrender except one ready for
burial. He replied that was as God might decree; either both must be
surrendered or both be held."

"Do you know why the dog said that?" whispered Irene to me. "It was
because those Northmen have let slip the offer I made to you but now,
and he is jealous of you, and fears you may take his power. Well, if I
live, one day he shall pay for this who cares so little for my life."

So she spoke, but I made no answer. Instead, I turned to Heliodore,
saying,

"You see how matters stand, beloved. Either I must surrender myself,
or all these brave men must perish, and we with them. For myself, I am
ready to die, but I am not willing that you and they should die. Also,
if I yield, I can do no worse than die, whereas perchance after all
things will take another turn. Now what say you?"

"I say, follow your heart, Olaf," she replied steadily. "Honour comes
first of all. The rest is with God. Wherever you go there I soon shall
be."

"I thank you," I answered; "your mind is mine."

Then I stepped forward and said,

"Comrades, it is my turn to throw in this great game. I have heard and
considered all, and I think it best that I should be surrendered, with
the Augusta, to the Greeks."

"We will not surrender you," they shouted.

"Comrades, I am still your general, and my order is that you surrender
me. Also, I have other orders to give to you. That you guard this lady
Heliodore to the last, and that, while one of you remains alive, she
shall be to you as though she were that man's daughter, or mother, or
sister, to help and protect as best he may in every circumstance, seen
or unforeseen. Further, that with her you guard her father, the noble
Egyptian Magas. Will you promise this to me?"

"Aye!" they roared in answer.

"You hear them, Heliodore," I said. "Know that henceforth you are one
of a large family, and, however great your enemies, that you will
never lack a friend. Comrades," I went on, "this is my second order,
and perchance the last that I shall ever give to you. Unless you hear
that I am evilly treated in the palace yonder, stay quiet. But if that
tidings should reach you, then all oaths are broken. Do what you can
and will."

"Aye!" they roared again.



Afterwards what happened? It comes back to me but dimly. I think they
swore the Empress on the Blood of Christ that I should go unharmed. I
think I embraced Heliodore before them all, and gave her into their
keeping. I think I whispered into the ear of Jodd to seek out the
Bishop Barnabas, and pray him to get her and her father away to Egypt
without delay--yes, even by force, if it were needful. Then I think I
left their lines, and that, as I went, leading the Augusta by the
hand, they gave to me the general's salute. That I turned and saluted
them in answer ere I yielded myself into the power of my god-father,
Stauracius, who greeted me with a false and sickly smile.



                             CHAPTER VIII

                          THE TRIAL OF OLAF

I know not what time went by before I was put upon my trial, but that
trial I can still see as clearly as though it were happening before my
eyes. It took place in a long, low room of the vast palace buildings
that was lighted only by window-places set high up in the wall. These
walls were frescoed, and at the end of the room above the seat of the
judges was a rude picture in bright colours of the condemnation of
Christ by Pilate. Pilate, I remember, was represented with a black
face, to signify his wickedness I suppose, and in the air above him
hung a red-eyed imp shaped like a bat who gripped his robe with one
claw and whispered into his ear.

There were seven judges, he who presided being a law-officer, and the
other six captains of different grades, chosen mostly from among the
survivors of those troops whom the Northmen had defeated on the night
of the battle in the palace gardens. As this was a military trial, I
was allowed no advocate to defend me, nor indeed did I ask for any.
The Court, however, was open and crowded with spectators, among whom I
saw most of the great officers of the palace, Stauracius with them;
also some ladies, one of whom was Martina, my god-mother. The back of
the long room was packed with soldiers and others, not all of whom
were my enemies.

Into this place I was brought, guarded by four negroes, great fellows
armed with swords whom I knew to be chosen out of the number of the
executioners of the palace and the city. Indeed, one of them had
served under me when I was governor of the State prison, and been
dismissed by me because of some cruelty which he had practised.

Noting all these things and the pity in Martina's eyes, I knew that I
was already doomed, but as I had expected nothing else this did not
trouble me over much.

I stood before the judges, and they stared at me.

"Why do you not salute us, fellow?" asked one of them, a mincing Greek
captain whom I had seen running like a hare upon the night of the
fray.

"Because, Captain, I am of senior rank to any whom I see before me,
and as yet uncondemned. Therefore, if salutes are in the question, it
is you who should salute me."

At this speech they stared at me still harder than before, but among
the soldiers at the end of the hall there arose something like a
murmur of applause.

"Waste no time in listening to his insolence," said the president of
the Court. "Clerk, set out the case."

Then a black-robed man who sat beneath the judges rose and read the
charge to me from a parchment. It was brief and to the effect that I,
Michael, formerly known as Olaf or Olaf Red-Sword, a Northman in the
service of the Empress Irene, a general in her armies, a chamberlain
and Master of the Palace, had conspired against the Empress, had
killed her servants, had detained her person, threatening to murder
her; had made war upon her troops and slain some hundreds of them by
the help of other Northmen, and wounded many more.

I was asked what I pleaded to this charge, and replied,

"I am not guilty."

Then witnesses were called. The first of these was the fourth man whom
Irene had set upon me, who alone escaped with a wound behind. This
fellow, having been carried into court, for he could not walk, leaned
over a bar, for he could not sit down, and told his story. When he had
finished I was allowed to examine him.

"Why did the Empress order you and your companions to attack me?" I
asked.

"I think because she saw you kiss the Egyptian lady, General," at
which answer many laughed.

"You tried to kill me, did you not?"

"Yes, General, for the Empress ordered us so to do."

"Then what happened?"

"You killed or cut down three of us one after the other, General,
being too skilful and strong for us. As I turned to fly, me you
wounded here," and, dragging himself round with difficulty, he showed
how my sword had fallen on a part where no soldier should receive a
wound. At this sight those in the Court laughed again.

"Did I provoke you in any way before you attacked me?"

"No, indeed, General. It was the Empress you provoked by kissing the
beautiful Egyptian lady. At least, I think so, since every time you
kissed each other she seemed to become more mad, and at last ordered
us to kill both of you."

Now the laughter grew very loud, for even the Court officers could no
longer restrain themselves, and the ladies hid their faces in their
hands and tittered.

"Away with that fool!" shouted the president of the Court, and the
poor fellow was hustled out. What became of him afterwards I do not
know, though I can guess.

Now appeared witness after witness who told of the fray which I have
described already, though for the most part they tried to put another
colour on the matter. Of many of these men I asked no questions.
Indeed, growing weary of their tales, I said at length to the judges,

"Sirs, what need is there for all this evidence, seeing that among you
I perceive three gallant officers whom I saw running before the
Northmen that night, when with some four hundred swords we routed
about two thousand of you? You yourselves, therefore, are the best
witnesses of what befell. Moreover, I acknowledge that, being moved by
the sight of war, in the end I led the charge against you, before
which charge some died and many fled, you among them."

Now these captains glowered at me and the president said,

"The prisoner is right. What need is there of more evidence?"

"I think much, sir," I answered, "since but one side of the story has
been heard. Now I will call witnesses, of whom the first should be the
Augusta, if she is willing to appear and tell you what happened within
the circle of the Northmen on that night."

"Call the Augusta!" gasped the president. "Perchance, prisoner
Michael, you will wish next to call God Himself on your behalf?"

"That, sir," I answered, "I have already done and do. Moreover," I
added slowly, "of this I am sure, that in a time to come, although it
be not to-morrow or the next day, you and everyone who has to do with
this case will find that I have not called Him in vain."

At these words for a few moments a solemn silence fell upon the Court.
It was as though they had gone home to the heart of everyone who was
present there. Also I saw the curtains that draped a gallery high up
in the wall shake a little. It came into my mind that Irene herself
was hidden behind those curtains, as afterwards I learned was the
case, and that she had made some movement which caused them to
tremble.

"Well," said the president, after this pause, "as God does not appear
to be your witness, and as you have no other, seeing that you cannot
give evidence yourself under the law, we will now proceed to
judgment."

"Who says that the General Olaf, Olaf Red-Sword, has no witness?"
exclaimed a deep voice at the end of the hall. "I am here to be his
witness."

"Who speaks?" asked the president. "Let him come forward."

There was a disturbance at the end of the hall, and through the crowd
that he seemed to throw before him to right and left appeared the
mighty form of Jodd. He was clad in full armour and bore his famous
battle-axe in his hand.

"One whom some of you know well enough, as others of your company who
will never know anything again have done in the past. One named Jodd,
the Northman, second in command of the guard to the General Olaf," he
answered, and marched to the spot where witnesses were accustomed to
stand.

"Take away that barbarian's axe," exclaimed an officer who sat among
the judges.

"Aye," said Jodd, "come hither, mannikin, and take it away if you can.
I promise you that along with it something else shall be taken away,
to wit your fool's head. Who are you that would dare to disarm an
officer of the Imperial Guard?"

After this there was no more talk of removing Jodd's axe, and he
proceeded to give his evidence, which, as it only detailed what has
been written already, need not be repeated. What effect it produced
upon the judges, I cannot say, but that it moved those present in the
Court was clear enough.

"Have you done?" asked the president at length when the story was
finished.

"Not altogether," said Jodd. "Olaf Red-Sword was promised an open
trial, and that he has, since otherwise I and some friends of mine
could not be in this Court to tell the truth, where perhaps the truth
has seldom been heard before. Also he was promised a fair trial, and
that he has not, seeing that the most of his judges are men with whom
he fought the other day and who only escaped his sword by flight.
To-morrow I propose to ask the people of Byzantium whether it is right
that a man should be tried by his conquered enemies. Now I perceive
that you will find a verdict of 'guilty' against Olaf Red-Sword, and
perhaps condemn him to death. Well, find what verdict you will and
pass what sentence you will, but do not dare to attempt to execute
that sentence."

"Dare! Dare!" shouted the president. "Who are you, man, who would
dictate to a Court appointed by the Empress what it shall or shall not
do? Be careful lest we pass sentence on you as well as on your fellow-
traitor. Remember where you stand, and that if I lift my finger you
will be taken and bound."

"Aye, lawyer, I remember this and other things. For instance, that I
have the safe-conduct of the Empress under an oath sworn on the Cross
of the Christ she worships. For instance, also, that I have three
hundred comrades waiting my safe return."

"Three hundred!" snarled the president. "The Empress has three
thousand within these walls who will soon make an end of your three
hundred."

"I have been told, lawyer," answered Jodd, "that once there lived
another monarch, one called Xerxes, who thought that he would make an
end of a certain three hundred Greeks, when Greeks were different from
what you are to-day, at a place called Thermopyl. He made an end of
them, but they cost him more than he cared to pay, and now it is those
Greeks who live for ever and Xerxes who is dead. But that's not all;
since that fray the other night we Northmen have found friends. Have
you heard of the Armenian legions, President, those who favour
Constantine? Well, kill Olaf Red-Sword, or kill me, Jodd, and you have
to deal first with the Northmen and next with the Armenian legions.
Now here I am waiting to be taken by any who can pass this axe."

At these words a great silence fell upon the Court. Jodd glared about
him, and, seeing that none ventured to draw near, stepped from the
witness-place, advanced to where I was, gave me the full salute of
ceremony, then marched away to the back of the Court, the crowd
opening a path for him.

When he had gone the judges began to consult together, and, as I
expected, very soon agreed upon their verdict. The president said, or
rather gabbled,

"Prisoner, we find you guilty. Have you any reason to offer why
sentence of death should not be passed upon you?"

"Sir," I answered, "I am not here to plead for my life, which already
I have risked a score of times in the service of your people. Yet I
would say this. On the night of the outbreak I was set on, four to
one, for no crime, as you have heard, and did but protect myself.
Afterwards, when I was about to be slain, the Northmen, my comrades,
protected me unasked; then I did my best to save the life of the
Empress, and, in fact, succeeded. My only offence is that when the
great charge took place and your regiments were defeated, remembering
only that I was a soldier, I led that charge. If this is a crime
worthy of death, I am ready to die. Yet I hold that both God and man
will give more honour to me the criminal than to you the judges, and
to those who before ever you sat in this Court instructed you, whom I
know to be but tools, as to the verdict that you should give."

The applause which my words called forth from those gathered at the
end of the Court died away. In the midst of a great silence the
president, who, like his companions, I could see well, was growing
somewhat fearful, read the sentence in a low voice from a parchment.
After setting out the order by which the Court was constituted and
other matters, it ran:

"We condemn you, Michael, otherwise called Olaf or Olaf Red-Sword, to
death. This sentence will be executed with or without torture at such
time and in such manner as it may please the Augusta to decree."

Now the voice of Jodd was heard crying through the gathering gloom,
for night was near:

"What sort of judgment is this that the judges bring already written
down into the Court? Hearken you, lawyer, and you street-curs, his
companions, who call yourselves soldiers. If Olaf Red-Sword dies,
those hostages whom we hold die also. If he is tortured, those
hostages will be tortured also. Moreover, ere long we will sack this
fine place, and what has befallen Olaf shall befall you also, you
false judges, neither less nor more. Remember it, all you who shall
have charge of Olaf in his bonds, and, if she be within hearing, let
the Augusta Irene remember it also, lest another time there should be
no Olaf to save her life."

Now I could see that the judges were terrified. Hastily, with white
faces, they consulted together as to whether they should order Jodd to
be seized. Presently I heard the president say to his companions:

"Nay, best let him go. If he is touched, our hostages will die.
Moreover, doubtless Constantine and the Armenians are at the back of
him, or he would not dare to speak thus. Would that we were clear of
this business which has been thrust upon us."

Then he called aloud, "Let the prisoner be removed."

Down the long Court I was marched, only now guards, who had been
called in, went in front of and behind me, and with them the four
executioners by whom I was surrounded.

"Farewell, god-mother," I whispered to Martina as I passed.

"Nay, not farewell," she whispered back, looking up at me with eyes
that were full of tears, though what she meant I did not know.

At the end of the Court, where those who dared to sympathise with me
openly were gathered, rough voices called blessings on me and rough
hands patted me on the shoulder. To one of these men whose voice I
recognised in the gloom I turned to speak a word. Thereon the black
executioner who was between us, he whom I had dismissed from the jail
for cruelty, struck me on the mouth with the back of his hand. Next
instant I heard a sound that reminded me of the growl the white bear
gave when it gripped Steinar. Two arms shot out and caught that black
savage by the head. There was a noise as of something breaking, and
down went the man--a corpse.

Then they hurried me away, for now it was not only the judges who were
afraid.



It comes to me that for some days, three or four, I sat in my cell at
the palace, for here I was kept because, as I learned afterwards, it
was feared that if I were removed to that State prison of which I had
been governor, some attempt would be made to rescue me.

This cell was one of several situated beneath that broad terrace which
looked out on to the sea, where Irene had first questioned me as to
the shell necklace and, against my prayer, had set it upon her own
breast. It had a little barred window, out of which I could watch the
sea, and through this window came the sound of sentries tramping
overhead and of the voice of the officer who, at stated hours, arrived
to turn out the guard, as for some years it had been my duty to do.

I wondered who that officer might be, and wondered also how many of
such men since Byzantium became the capital of the Empire had filled
his office and mine, and what had become of them all. As I knew, if
that terrace had been able to speak, it could have told many bloody
histories, whereof doubtless mine would be another. Doubtless, too,
there were more to follow until the end came, whatever that might be.

In that strait place I reflected on many things. All my youth came
back to me. I marvelled what had happened at Aar since I left it such
long years ago. Once or twice rumours had reached me from men in my
company, who were Danish-born, that Iduna was a great lady there and
still unmarried. But of Freydisa I had heard nothing. Probably she was
dead, and, if so, I felt sure that her fierce and faithful spirit must
be near me now, as that of Ragnar had seemed to be in the Battle of
the Garden.

How strange it was that after all my vision had been fulfilled and it
had been my lot to meet her of whom I had dreamed, wearing that
necklace of which I had found one-half upon the Wanderer in his grave-
mound. Were I and the Wanderer the same spirit, I asked of myself, and
she of the dream and Heliodore the same woman?

Who could tell? At least this was sure, from the moment that first we
saw one another we knew we belonged each to each for the present and
the future. Therefore, as it was with these we had to do, the past
might sleep and all its secrets.

Now we had met but to be parted again by death, which seemed hard
indeed. Yet since we /had/ met, for my part Fate had my forgiveness
for I knew that we should meet again. I looked back on what I had done
and left undone, and could not blame myself overmuch. True, it would
have been wiser if I had stayed by Irene and Heliodore, and not led
that charge against the Greeks. Only then, as a soldier, I should
never have forgiven myself, for how could I stand still while my
comrades fought for me? No, no, I was glad I had led the charge and
led it well, though my life must pay its price. Nor was this so. I
must die, not because I had lifted sword against Irene's troops, but
for the sin of loving Heliodore.

After all, what was life as we knew it? A passing breath! Well, as the
body breathes many million times between the cradle and the grave, so
I believed the soul must breathe out its countless lives, each ending
in a form of death. And beyond these, what? I did not know, yet my
new-found faith gave me much comfort.

In such meditations and in sleep I passed my hours, waiting always
until the door of my cell should open and through it appear, not the
jailer with my food, which I noted was plentiful and delicate, but the
executioners or mayhap the tormentors.

At length it did open, somewhat late at night, just as I was about to
lay myself down to rest, and through it came a veiled woman. I bowed
and motioned to my visitor to be seated on the stool that was in the
cell, then waited in silence. Presently she threw off her veil, and in
the light of the lamp showed that I stood before the Empress Irene.

"Olaf," she said hoarsely, "I am come here to save you from yourself,
if it may be so. I was hidden in yonder Court, and heard all that
passed at your trial."

"I guessed as much, Augusta," I said, "but what of it?"

"For one thing, this: The coward and fool, who now is dead--of his
wounds--who gave evidence as to the killing of the three other cowards
by you, has caused my name to become a mock throughout Constantinople.
Aye, the vilest make songs upon me in the streets, such songs as I
cannot repeat."

"I am grieved, Augusta," I said.

"It is I who should grieve, not you, who are told of as a man who grew
weary of the love of an Empress, and cast her off as though she were a
tavern wench. That is the first matter. The second is that under the
finding of the Court of Justice----"

"Oh! Augusta," I interrupted, "why stain your lips with those words
'of justice'!"

"----Under the finding of the Court," she went on, "your fate is left
in my hands. I may kill you or torment your body. Or I may spare you
and raise your head higher than any other in the Empire, aye, and
adorn it with a crown."

"Doubtless you may do any of these things, Augusta, but which of them
do you wish to do?"

"Olaf, notwithstanding all that has gone, I would still do the last. I
speak to you no more of love or tenderness, nor do I pretend that this
is for your sake alone. It is for mine also. My name is smirched, and
only marriage can cover up the stain upon it. Moreover, I am beset by
troubles and by dangers. Those accursed Northmen, who love you so well
and who fight, not like men but like devils, are in league with the
Armenian legions and with Constantine. My generals and my troops fall
away from me. If it were assailed, I am not sure that I could hold
this palace, strong though it be. There's but one man who can make me
safe again, and that man is yourself. The Northmen will do your
bidding, and with you in command of them I fear no attack. You have
the honesty, the wit and the soldier's skill and courage. You must
command, or none. Only this time it must not be as Irene's lover, for
that is what they name you, but as her husband. A priest is waiting
within call, and one of high degree. Within an hour, Olaf, you may be
my consort, and within a year the Emperor of the World. Oh!" she went
on with passion, "cannot you forgive what seem to be my sins when you
remember that they were wrought for love of you?"

"Augusta," I said, "I have small ambition; I am not minded to be an
emperor. But hearken. Put aside this thought of marriage with one so
far beneath you, and let me marry her whom I have chosen, and who has
chosen me. Then once more I'll take command of the Northmen and defend
you and your cause to the last drop of my blood."

Her face hardened.

"It may not be," she said, "not only for those reasons I have told
you, but for another which I grieve to have to tell. Heliodore,
daughter of Magas the Egyptian, is dead.'

"Dead!" I gasped. "Dead!"

"Aye, Olaf, dead. You did not see, and she, being a brave woman, hid
it from you, but one of those spears that were flung in the fight
struck her in the side. For a while the wound went well. But two days
ago it mortified; last night she died and this morning I myself saw
her buried with honour."

"How did you see her buried, you who are not welcome among the
Northmen?" I asked.

"By my order, as her blood was high, she was laid in the palace
graveyard, Olaf."

"Did she leave me no word or token, Augusta? She swore to me that if
she died she would send to me the other half of that necklace which I
wear."

"I have heard of none," said Irene, "but you will know, Olaf, that I
have other business to attend to just now than such death-bed gossip.
These things do not come to my ears."

I looked at Irene and Irene looked at me.

"Augusta," I said, "I do not believe your story. No spear wounded
Heliodore while I was near her, and when I was not near her your
Greeks were too far away for any spears to be thrown. Indeed, unless
you stabbed her secretly, she was not wounded, and I am sure that,
however much you have hated her, this you would not have dared to do
for your own life's sake. Augusta, for your own purposes you are
trying to deceive me. I will not marry you. Do your worst. You have
lied to me about the woman whom I love, and though I forgive you all
the rest, this I do not forgive. You know well that Heliodore still
lives beneath the sun."

"If so," answered the Empress, "you have looked your last upon the sun
and--her. Never again shall you behold the beauty of Heliodore. Have
you aught to say? There is still time."

"Nothing, Augusta, at present, except this. Of late I have learned to
believe in a God. I summon you to meet me before that God. There we
will argue out our case and abide His judgment. If there is no God
there will be no judgment, and I salute you, Empress, who triumph. If,
as I believe and as you say you believe, there is a God, think whom
/you/ will be called upon to salute when that God has heard the truth.
Meanwhile I repeat that Heliodore the Egyptian still lives beneath the
sun."

Irene rose from the stool on which she sat and thought a moment. I
gazed through the bars of the window-place in my cell out at the night
above. A young moon was floating in the sky, and near to it hung a
star. A little passing cloud with a dented edge drifted over the star
and the lower horn of the moon. It went by, and they shone out again
upon the background of the blue heavens. Also an owl flitted across
the window-place of my cell. It had a mouse in its beak, and the
shadow of it and of the writhing mouse for a moment lay upon Irene's
breast, for I turned my head and saw them. It came into my mind that
here was an allegory. Irene was the night-hawk, and I was the writhing
mouse that fed its appetite. Doubtless it was decreed that the owl
must be and the mouse must be, but beyond them both, hidden in those
blue heavens, stood that Justice which we call God.

These were the last things that I saw in this life of mine, and
therefore I remember them well, or rather, almost the last. The very
last of which I took note was Irene's face. It had grown like to that
of a devil. The great eyes in it stared out between the puffed and
purple eyelids. The painted cheeks had sunk in and were pallid beneath
and round the paint. The teeth showed in two white lines, the chin
worked. She was no longer a beautiful woman, she was a fiend.

Irene knocked thrice upon the door. Bolts were thrown back, and men
entered.

"Blind him!" she said.



                              CHAPTER IX

                         THE HALL OF THE PIT

The days and the nights went by, but which was day and which was night
I knew not, save for the visits of the jailers with my meals--I who
was blind, I who should never see the light again. At first I suffered
much, but by degrees the pain died away. Also a physician came to tend
my hurts, a skilful man. Soon I discovered, however, that he had
another object. He pitied my state, so much, indeed, he said, that he
offered to supply me with a drug that, if I were willing to take it,
would make an end of me painlessly. Now I understood at once that
Irene desired my death, and, fearing to cause it, set the means of
self-murder within my reach.

I thanked the man and begged him to give me the drug, which he did,
whereon I hid it away in my garments. When it was seen that I still
lived although I had asked for the medicine, I think that Irene
believed this was because it had failed to work, or that such a means
of death did not please me. So she found another. One evening when a
jailer brought my supper he pressed something heavy into my hand,
which I felt to be a sword.

"What weapon is this?" I asked, "and why do you give it to me?"

"It is your own sword," answered the man, "which I was commanded to
return to you. I know no more."

Then he went away, leaving the sword with me.

I drew the familiar blade from its sheath, the red blade that the
Wanderer had worn, and touching its keen edge with my fingers, wept
from my blinded eyes to think that never again could I hold it aloft
in war or see the light flash from it as I smote. Yes, I wept in my
weakness, till I remembered that I had no longer any wish to be the
death of men. So I sheathed the good sword and hid it beneath my
mattress lest some jailer should steal it, which, as I could not see
him, he might do easily. Also I desired to put away temptation.

I think that this hour after the bringing of the sword, which stirred
up so many memories, was the most fearful of all my hours, so fearful
that, had it been prolonged, death would have come to me of its own
accord. I had sunk to misery's lowest deep, who did not know that even
then its tide was turning, who could not dream of all the blessed
years that lay before me, the years of love and of such peaceful joy
as even the blind may win.

That night Martina came--Martina, who was Hope's harbinger. I heard
the door of my prison open and close softly, and sat still, wondering
whether the murderers had entered at last, wondering, too, whether I
should snatch the sword and strike blindly till I fell. Next I heard
another sound, that of a woman weeping; yes, and felt my hand lifted
and pressed to a woman's lips, which kissed it again and yet again. A
thought struck me, and I began to draw it back. A soft voice spoke
between its sobs.

"Have no fear, Olaf. I am Martina. Oh, now I understand why yonder
tigress sent me on that distant mission."

"How did you come here, Martina?" I asked.

"I still have the signet, Olaf, which Irene, who begins to mistrust
me, forgets. Only this morning I learned the truth on my return to the
palace; yet I have not been idle. Within an hour Jodd and the Northmen
knew it also. Within three they had blinded every hostage whom they
held, aye, and caught two of the brutes who did the deed on you, and
crucified them upon their barrack walls."

"Oh! Martina," I broke in, "I did not desire that others who are
innocent should share my woes."

"Nor did I, Olaf; but these Northmen are ill to play with. Moreover,
in a sense it was needful. You do not know what I have learned--that
to-morrow Irene proposed to slit your tongue also because you can tell
too much, and afterwards to cut off your right hand lest you, who are
learned, should write down what you know. I told the Northmen--never
mind how. They sent a herald, a Greek whom they had captured, and,
covering him with arrows, made him call out that if your tongue was
slit they would know of it and slit the tongues of all the hostages
also, and that if your hand was cut off they could cut off their
hands, and take another vengeance which for the present they keep
secret."

"At least they are faithful," I said. "But, oh! tell me, Martina, what
of Heliodore?"

"This," she whispered into my ear. "Heliodore and her father sailed an
hour after sunset and are now safe upon the sea, bound for Egypt."

"Then I was right! When Irene told me she was dead she lied."

"Aye, if she said that she lied, though thrice she has striven to
murder her, I have no time to tell you how, but was always baffled by
those who watched. Yet she might have succeeded at last, so, although
Heliodore fought against it, it was best that she should go. Those who
are parted may meet again; but how can we meet one who is dead until
we too are dead?"

"How did she go?"

"Smuggled from the city disguised as a boy attending on a priest, and
that priest her father shorn of his beard and tonsured. The Bishop
Barnabas passed them out in his following."

"Then blessings on the Bishop Barnabas," I said.

"Aye, blessings on him, since without his help it could never have
been done. The secret agents at the port stared hard at those two,
although the good bishop vouched for them and gave their names and
offices. Still, when they saw some rough-looking fellows dressed like
sailors approach, playing with the handles of their knives, the agents
thought well to ask no more questions. Moreover, now that the ship has
sailed, for their own sakes they'll swear that no such priest and boy
went aboard of her. So your Heliodore is away unharmed, as is her
father, though his mission has come to naught. Still, his life is left
in him, for which he may be thankful, who on such a business should
have brought no woman. If he had come alone, Olaf, your eyes would
have been left to you, and set by now upon the orb of empire that your
hand had grasped."

"Yet I am glad that he did not come alone, Martina."

"Truly you have a high and faithful heart, and that woman should be
honoured whom you love. What is the secret? There must be more in it
than the mere desire for a woman's beauty, though I know that at times
this can make men mad. In such a business the soul must play its
part."

"I think so, Martina. Indeed, I believe so, since otherwise we suffer
much in vain. Now tell me, how and when do I die?"

"I hope you will not die at all, Olaf. Certain plans are laid which
even here I dare not whisper. To-morrow I hear they will lead you
again before the judges, who, by Irene's clemency, will change your
sentence to one of banishment, with secret orders to kill you on the
voyage. But you will never make that voyage. Other schemes are afoot;
you'll learn of them afterwards."

"Yet, Martina, if you know these plots the Augusta knows them also,
since you and she are one."

"When those dagger points were thrust into your eyes, Olaf, they cut
the thread that bound us, and now Irene and I are more far apart than
hell and heaven. I tell you that for your sake I hate her and work her
downfall. Am I not your god-mother, Olaf?"

Then again she kissed my hand and presently was gone.



On the following morning, as I supposed it to be, my jailers came and
said to me that I must appear before the judges to hear some revision
of my sentence. They dressed me in my soldier's gear, and even allowed
me to gird my sword about me, knowing, doubtless, that, save to
himself, a blind man could do no mischief with a sword. Then they led
me I know not whither by passages which turned now here, now there. At
length we entered some place, for doors were closed behind us.

"This is the Hall of Judgment," said one of them, "but the judges have
not yet come. It is a great room and bare. There is nothing in it
against which you can hurt yourself. Therefore, if it pleases you
after being cramped so long in that narrow cell, you may walk to and
fro, keeping your hands in front of you so that you will know when you
touch the further wall and must turn."

I thanked them and, glad enough to avail myself of this grace for my
limbs were stiff with want of exercise, began to walk joyfully. I
thought that the room must be one of those numberless apartments which
opened on to the terrace, since distinctly I could hear the wash of
the sea coming from far beneath, doubtless through the open window-
places.

Forward I stepped boldly, but at a certain point in my march this
curious thing happened. A hand seemed to seize my own and draw me to
the left. Wondering, I followed the guidance of the hand, which
presently left hold of mine. Thereon I continued my march, and as I
did so, thought that I heard another sound, like to that of a
suppressed murmur of human voices. Twenty steps more and I reached the
end of the chamber, for my outstretched fingers touched its marble
wall. I turned and marched back, and lo! at the twentieth step that
hand took mine again and led me to the right, whereon once more the
murmur of voices reached me.

Thrice this happened, and every time the murmur grew more loud.
Indeed, I thought I heard one say,

"The man's not blind at all," and another, "Some spirit guides him."

As I made my fourth journey I caught the sound of a distant tumult,
the shouts of war, the screams of agony, and above them all the well-
remembered cry of "/Valhalla! Valhalla! Victory or Valhalla!/"

I halted where I was and felt the blood rush into my wasted cheeks.
The Northmen, my Northmen, were in the palace! It was at this that
Martina had hinted. Yet in so vast a place what chance was there that
they would ever find me, and how, being blind, could I find them?
Well, at least my voice was left to me, and I would lift it.

So with all my strength I cried aloud, "Olaf Red-Sword is here! To
Olaf, men of the North!"

Thrice I cried. I heard folk running, not to me, but from me,
doubtless those whose whispers had reached my ears.

I thought of trying to follow them, but the soft and gentle hand,
which was like to that of a woman, once more clasped mine and held me
where I was, suffering me to move no single inch. So there I stood,
even after the hand had loosed me again, for it seemed to me that
there was something most strange in this business.

Presently another sound arose, the sound of the Northmen pouring
towards the hall, for feet clanged louder and louder down the marble
corridors. More, they had met those who were running from the hall,
for now these fled back before them. They were in the hall, for a cry
of horror, mingled with rage, broke from their lips.

"'Tis Olaf," said one, "Olaf blinded, and, by Thor, see where he
stands!"

Then Jodd's voice roared out,

"Move not, Olaf; move not, or you die."

Another voice, that of Martina, broke in, "Silence, you fool, or
you'll frighten him and make him fall. Silence all, and leave him to
me!"

Then quiet fell upon the place; it seemed that even the pursued grew
quiet, and I heard the rustle of a woman's dress drawing towards me.
Next instant a soft hand took my own, just such a hand as not long ago
had seemed to guide and hold me, and Martina's voice said,

"Follow where I lead, Olaf."

So I followed eight or ten paces. Then Martina threw her arms about me
and burst into wild laughter. Someone caught her away; next moment two
hair-clad lips kissed me on the brow and the mighty voice of Jodd
shouted,

"Thanks be to all the gods, dwell they in the north or in the south!
We have saved you! Know you where you stood, Olaf? On the brink of a
pit, the very brink, and beneath is a fall of a hundred feet to where
the waters of the Bosphorus wash among the rocks. Oh! understand this
pretty Grecian game. They, good Christian folk, would not have your
blood upon their souls, and therefore they caused you to walk to your
own death. Well, they shall be dosed with the draught they brewed.

"Bring them hither, comrades, bring them one by one, these devils who
could sit to watch a blind man walk to his doom to make their sport.
Ah! whom have we here? Why, by Thor! 'tis the lawyer knave, he who was
president of the court that tried you, and was angry because you did
not salute him. Well, lawyer, the wheel has gone round. We Northmen
are in possession of the palace and the Armenian legions are gathered
at its gates and do but wait for Constantine the Emperor to enter and
take the empire and its crown. They'll be here anon, lawyer, but you
understand, having a certain life to save, for word had been brought
to us of your pretty doings, that we were forced to strike before the
signal, and struck not in vain. Now we'll fill in the tedious time
with a trial of our own. See here, I am president of the court, seated
in this fine chair, and these six to right and left are my companion
judges, while you seven who were judges are now prisoners. You know
the crime with which you are charged, so there's no need to set it
out. Your defence, lawyer, and be swift with it."

"Oh! sir," said the man in a trembling voice, "what we did to the
General Olaf we were ordered to do by one who may not be named."

"You'd best find the name, lawyer, for were it that of a god we
Northmen would hear it."

"Well, then, by the Augusta herself. She wished the death of the noble
Michael, or Olaf, but having become superstitious about the matter,
would not have his blood directly on her hands. Therefore she
bethought her of this plan. He was ordered to be brought into the
place you see, which is known as the Hall of the Pit, that in old days
was used by certain bloody-minded emperors to rid them of their
enemies. The central pavement swings upon a hinge. At a touch it
opens, and he who has thought it sound and walked thereon, when
darkness comes is lost, since he falls upon the rocks far below, and
at high tide the water takes him."

"Yes, yes, we understand the game, lawyer, for there yawns the open
pit. But have you aught more to say?"

"Nothing, sir, nothing, save that we only did what we were driven to
do. Moreover, no harm has come of it, since whenever the noble general
came to the edge of the opened pit, although he was blind, he halted
and went off to right or left as though someone drew him out of
danger."

"Well, then, cruel and unjust judges, who could gather to mock at the
murder of a blinded man that you had trapped to his doom----"

"Sir," broke in one of them, "it was not we who tried to trap him; it
was those jailers who stand there. They told the general that he might
exercise himself by walking up and down the hall."

"Is that true, Olaf?" asked Jodd.

"Yes," I answered, "it is true that the two jailers who brought me
here did tell me this, though whether those men are present I cannot
say."

"Very good," said Jodd. "Add them to the other prisoners, who by their
own showing heard them set the snare and did not warn the victim. Now,
murderers all, this is the sentence of the court upon you: That you
salute the General Olaf and confess your wickedness to him."

So they saluted me, kneeling, and kissing my feet, and one and all
made confession of their crime.

"Enough," I said, "I pardon them who are but tools. Pray to God that
He may do as much."

"You may pardon here, Olaf," said Jodd, "and your God may pardon
hereafter, but we, the Northmen, do not pardon. Blindfold those men
and bind their arms. Now," went on Jodd after a pause, "their turn has
come to show us sport. Run, friends, run, for swords are behind you.
Can you not feel them?"

The rest may be guessed. Within a few minutes the seven judges and the
two jailers had vanished from the world. No hand came to save /them/
from the cruel rocks and the waters that seethed a hundred feet below
that dreadful chamber.

This fantastic, savage vengeance was a thing dreadful to hear; what it
must have been to see I can only guess. I know that I wished I might
have fled from it and that I pleaded with Jodd for mercy on these men.
But neither he nor his companions would listen to me.

"What mercy had they on you?" he cried. "Let them drink from their own
cup."

"Let them drink from their own cup!" roared his companions, and then
broke into a roar of laughter as one of the false judges, feeling
space before him, leapt, leapt short, and with a shriek departed for
ever.



It was over. I heard someone enter the hall and whisper in Jodd's ear;
heard his answer also.

"Let her be brought hither," he said. "For the rest, bid the captains
hold Stauracius and the others fast. If there is any sign of stir
against us, cut their throats, advising them that this will be done
should they allow trouble to arise. Do not fire the palace unless I
give the word, for it would be a pity to burn so fine a building. It
is those who dwell in it who should be burned; but doubtless
Constantine will see to that. Collect the richest of the booty, that
which is most portable, and let it be carried to our quarters in the
baggage carts. See that these things are done quickly, before the
Armenians get their hands into the bag. I'll be with you soon; but if
the Emperor Constantine should arrive first, tell him that all has
gone well, better than he hoped, indeed, and pray him to come hither,
where we may take counsel."

The messenger went. Jodd and some of the Northmen began to consult
together, and Martina led me aside.

"Tell me what has chanced, Martina," I asked, "for I am bewildered."

"A revolution, that is all, Olaf. Jodd and the Northmen are the point
of the spear, its handle is Constantine, and the hands that hold it
are the Armenians. It has been very well done. Some of the guards who
remained were bribed, others frightened away. Only a few fought, and
of them the Northmen made short work. Irene and her ministers were
fooled. They thought the blow would not fall for a week or more, if at
all, since the Empress believed that she had appeased Constantine by
her promises. I'll tell you more later."

"How did you find me, Martina, and in time?"

"Oh! Olaf, it is a terrible story. Almost I swoon again to think of
it. It was thus: Irene discovered that I had visited you in your cell;
she grew suspicious of me. This morning I was seized and ordered to
surrender the signet; but first I had heard that they planned your
death to-day, not a sentence of banishment and murder afar off, as I
told you. My last act before I was taken was to dispatch a trusted
messenger to Jodd and the Northmen, telling them that if they would
save you alive they must strike at once, and not to-night, as had been
arranged. Within thirty seconds after he had left my side the eunuchs
had me and took me to my chamber, where they barred me in. A while
later the Augusta came raging like a lioness. She accused me of
treachery, and when I denied it struck me in the face. Look, here are
the marks of the jewels on her hands. Oh, alas! what said I? You
cannot see. She had learned that the lady Heliodore had escaped her,
and that I had some hand in her escape. She vowed that I, your god-
mother, was your lover, and as this is a crime against the Church,
promised me that after other sufferings I should be burned alive in
the Hippodrome before all the people. Lastly she said this, 'Know that
your Olaf of whom you are so fond dies within an hour and thus: He
will be taken to the Hall of the Pit and there given leave to walk
till the judges come. Being blind, you may guess where he will walk.
Before this door is unlocked again I tell you he'll be but a heap of
splintered bones. Aye, you may start and weep; but save your tears for
yourself,' and she called me a foul name. 'I have got you fast at
length, you night-prowling cat, and God Himself cannot give you
strength to stretch out your hand and guide this accursed Olaf from
the edge of the Pit of Death.'

"'God alone knows what He can do, Augusta,' I answered, for the words
seemed to be put into my lips.

"Then she cursed and struck me again, and so left me barred in my
chamber.

"When she had gone I flung myself upon my knees and prayed to God to
save you, Olaf, since I was helpless; prayed as I had never prayed
before. Praying thus, I think that I fell into a swoon, for my agony
was more than I could bear, and in the swoon I dreamed. I dreamed that
I stood in this place, where till now I have never been before. I saw
the judges, the jailers, and a few others watching from that gallery.
I saw you walk along the hall towards the great open pit. Then I
seemed to glide to you and take your hand and guide you round the pit.
And, Olaf, this happened thrice. Afterwards came a tumult while you
were on the very edge of the pit and I held you, not suffering you to
stir. Then in rushed the Northmen and I with them. Yes, standing there
with you upon the edge of the pit, I saw myself and the Northmen rush
into the hall."

"Martina," I whispered, "a hand that seemed to be a woman's did guide
me thrice round the edge of the pit, and did hold me almost until you
and the Northmen rushed in."

"Oh! God is great!" she gasped. "God is very great, and to Him I give
thanks. But hearken to the end of the tale. I awoke from my swoon and
heard noise without, and above it the Northmen's cry of victory. They
had scaled the palace walls or broken in the gates--as yet I know not
which--they were on the terrace driving the Greek guards before them.
I ran to the window-place and there below me saw Jodd. I screamed till
he heard me.

"'Save me if you would save Olaf,' I cried. 'I am prisoned here.'

"They brought one of their scaling ladders and drew me through the
window. I told them all I knew. They caught a palace eunuch and beat
him till he promised to lead us to this hall. He led, but in the
labyrinth of passages fell down senseless, for they had struck him too
hard. We knew not which way to turn, till suddenly we heard your voice
and ran towards it.

"That is all the story, Olaf."



                              CHAPTER X

                         OLAF GIVES JUDGMENT

As Martina finished speaking I heard the sound of tramping guards and
of a woman's dress upon the pavement. Then a voice, that of Irene,
spoke, and though her words were quiet I caught in them the tremble of
smothered rage.

"Be pleased to tell me, Captain Jodd," she said, "what is happening in
my palace, and why I, the Empress, am haled from my apartment hither
by soldiers under your command?"

"Lady," answered Jodd, "you are mistaken. Yesterday you were an
empress, to-day you are--well, whatever your son, the Emperor, chooses
to name you. As to what has been and is happening in this palace, I
scarcely know where to begin the tale. First of all your general and
chamberlain Olaf--in case you should not recognise him, I mean that
blind man who stands yonder--was being tricked to death by certain
servants of yours who called themselves judges, and who stated that
they were acting by your orders."

"Confront me with them," said Irene, "that I may prove to you that
they lie."

"Certainly. Ho! you, bring the lady Irene here. Now hold her over that
hole. Nay, struggle not, lady, lest you should slip from their hands.
Look down steadily, and you will see by the light that flows in from
the cave beneath, certain heaps lying on the rocks round which the
rising waters seethe. There are your judges whom you say you wish to
meet. If you desire to ask them any questions, we can satisfy your
will. Nay, why should you turn pale at the mere sight of the place
that you thought good enough to be the bed of a faithful soldier of
your own, one high in your service, whom it has pleased you to blind?
Why did it please you to blind him, Lady?"

"Who are you that dare to ask me questions?" she replied, gathering up
her courage.

"I'll tell you, Lady. Now that the General Olaf yonder is blinded I am
the officer in command of the Northmen, who, until you tried to murder
the said General Olaf a while ago, were your faithful guard. I am
also, as it chances, the officer in command of this palace, which we
took this morning by assault and by arrangement with most of your
Greek soldiers, having learned from your confidential lady, Martina,
of the vile deed you were about to work on the General Olaf."

"So it was you who betrayed me, Martina," gasped Irene; "and I had you
in my power. Oh! I had you in my power!"

"I did not betray you, Augusta. I saved my god-son yonder from torture
and butchery, as by my oath I was bound to do," answered Martina.

"Have done with this talk of betrayals," went on Jodd, "for who can
betray a devil? Now, Lady, with your State quarrels we have nothing to
do. You can settle them presently with your son, that is, if you still
live. But with this matter of Olaf we have much to do, and we will
settle that at once. The first part of the business we all know, so
let us get to the next. By whose order were you blinded, General
Olaf?"

"By that of the Augusta," I answered.

"For what reason, General Olaf?"

"For one that I will not state," I answered.

"Good. You were blinded by the Augusta for a reason you will not
state, but which is well known to all of us. Now, we have a law in the
North which says that an eye should be given for an eye and a life for
a life. Would it not then be right, comrades, that this woman should
be blinded also?"

"What!" screamed Irene, "blinded! I blinded! I, the Empress!"

"Tell me, Lady, are the eyes of one who was an Empress different from
other eyes? Why should you complain of that darkness into which you
were so ready to plunge one better than yourself. Still, Olaf shall
judge. Is it your will, General, that we blind this woman who put out
your eyes and afterwards tried to murder you?"

Now, I felt that all in that place were watching me and hanging on the
words that I should speak, so intently that they never heard others
entering it, as I did. For a while I paused, for why should not Irene
suffer a little of that agony of suspense which she had inflicted upon
me and others?

Then I said, "See what I have lost, friends, through no grave fault of
my own. I was in the way of greatness. I was a soldier whom you
trusted and liked well, one of unstained honour and of unstained name.
Also I loved a woman, by whom I was beloved and whom I hoped to make
my wife. And now what am I? My trade is gone, for how can a maimed man
lead in war, or even do the meanest service of the camp? The rest of
my days, should any be granted to me, must be spent in darkness
blacker than that of midnight. I must live on charity. When the little
store I have is spent, for I have taken no bribe and heaped up no
riches, how can I earn a living? The woman whom I love has been
carried away, after this Empress tried thrice to murder her. Whether I
shall ever find her again in this world I know not, for she has gone
to a far country that is full of enemies to Christian men. Nor do I
know whether she would be willing to take one who is blind and
beggared for a husband, though I think this may be so."

"Shame on her if she does not," muttered Martina as I paused.

"Well, friends, that is my case," I went on; "let the Augusta deny it
if she can."

"Speak, Lady. Do you deny it?" said Jodd.

"I do not deny that this man was blinded by my order in payment of
crimes for which he might well have suffered death," answered Irene.
"But I do deny that I commanded him to be trapped in yonder pit. If
those dead men said so, then they lied."

"And if the lady Martina says so, what then?" asked Jodd.

"Then she lies also," answered the Empress sullenly.

"Be it so," replied Jodd. "Yet it is strange that, acting on this lie
of the lady Martina's, we found the General Olaf upon the very edge of
yonder hole; yes, with not the breadth of a barleycorn between him and
death. Now, General, both parties have been heard and you shall pass
sentence. If you say that yonder woman is to be blinded, this moment
she looks her last upon the light. If you say that she is to die, this
moment she bids farewell to life."

Again I thought a while. It came into my mind that Irene, who had
fallen from power, might rise once more and bring fresh evil upon
Heliodore. Now she was in my hand, but if I opened that hand and let
her free----!

Someone moved towards me, and I heard Irene's voice whispering in my
ear.

"Olaf," she said, "if I sinned against you it was because I loved you.
Would you be avenged upon one who has burned her soul with so much
evil because she loved too well? Oh! if so, you are no longer Olaf.
For Christ's sake have pity on me, since I am not fit to meet Him.
Give me time to repent. Nay! hear me out! Let not those men drag me
away as they threaten to do. I am fallen now, but who knows, I may
grow great again; indeed, I think I shall. Then, Olaf, may my soul
shrivel everlastingly in hell if I try to harm you or the Egyptian
more--Jesus be my witness that I ask no lesser doom upon my head. Keep
the men back, Martina, for what I swear to him and the Egyptian I
swear to you as well. Moreover, Olaf, I have great wealth. You spoke
of poverty; it shall be far from you. Martina knows where my gold is
hid, and she still holds my keys. Let her take it. I say leave me
alone, but one word more. If ever it is in my power I'll forget
everything and advance you all to great honour. Your brain is not
blinded, Olaf; you can still rule. I swear, I swear, I swear upon the
Holy Blood! Ah! now drag me away if you will. I have spoken."

"Then perchance, Lady, you will allow Olaf to speak, since we, who
have much to do, must finish this business quickly, before the Emperor
comes with the Armenians," said Jodd.

"Captain Jodd and his comrades," I said, "the Empress Irene has been
pleased to make certain solemn vows to me which perchance some of you
may have overheard. At least, God heard them, and whether she keeps
them or no is a matter between her and the God in Whom we both
believe. Therefore I set these vows aside; they draw me neither one
way nor the other. Now, you have made me judge in my own matter and
have promised to abide by my judgment, which you will do. Hear it,
then, and let it be remembered. For long I have been the Augusta's
officer, and of late her general and chamberlain. As such I have bound
myself by great oaths to protect her from harm in all cases, and those
oaths heretofore I have kept, when I might have broken them and not
been blamed by men. Whatever has chanced, it seems that she is still
Empress and I am still her officer, seeing that my sword has been
returned to me, although it is true she sent it that I might use it on
myself. It pleased the Empress to put out my eyes. Under our soldier's
law the monarch who rules the Empire has a right to put out the eyes
of an officer who has lifted sword against her forces, or even to kill
him. Whether this is done justly or unjustly again is a matter between
that monarch and God above, to Whom answer must be made at last.
Therefore it would seem that I have no right to pronounce any sentence
against the Augusta Irene, and whatever may have been my private
wrongs, I pronounce none. Yet, as I am still your general until
another is named, I order you to free the Augusta Irene and to work no
vengeance on her person for aught that may have befallen me at her
hands, were her deeds just or unjust."

When I had finished speaking, in the silence that followed I heard
Irene utter something that was half a sob and half a gasp of
wonderment. Then above the murmuring of the Northmen, to whom this
rede was strange, rose the great voice of Jodd.

"General Olaf," he said, "while you were talking it came into my mind
that one of those knife points which pierced your eyes had pricked the
brain behind them. But when you had finished talking it came into my
mind that you are a great man who, putting aside your private rights
and wrongs and the glory of revenge which lay to your hand, have
taught us soldiers a lesson in duty which I, at least, never shall
forget. General, if, as I trust, we are together in the future as in
the past, I shall ask you to instruct me in this Christian faith of
yours, which can make a man not only forgive but hide his forgiveness
under the mask of duty, for that, as we know well, is what you have
done. General, your order shall be obeyed. Be she Empress or nothing,
this lady's person is safe from us. More, we will protect her to the
best of our power, as you did in the Battle of the Garden. Yet I tell
her to her face that had it not been for those orders, had you, for
example, said that you left judgment to us, she who has spoilt such a
man should have died a death of shame."

I heard a sound as of a woman throwing herself upon her knees before
me. I heard Irene's voice whisper through her tears,

"Olaf, Olaf, for the second time in my life you make me feel ashamed.
Oh! if only you could have loved me! Then I should have grown good
like you."

There was a stir of feet and another voice spoke, a voice that should
have been clear and youthful, but sounded as though it were thick with
wine. It did not need Martina's whisper to tell me that it was that of
Constantine.

"Greeting, friends," he said, and at once there came a rattle of
saluting swords and an answering cry of

"Greeting, Augustus!"

"You struck before the time," went on the thick, boyish voice. "Yet as
things seem to have gone rather well for us, I cannot blame you,
especially as I see that you hold fast her who has usurped my
birthright."

Now I heard Irene turn with a swift and furious movement.

"Your birthright, boy," she cried. "What birthright have you save that
which my body gave?"

"I thought that my father had more to do with this matter of imperial
right than the Grecian girl whom it pleased him to marry for her fair
face," answered Constantine insolently, adding: "Learn your station,
mother. Learn that you are but the lamp which once held the holy oil,
and that lamps can be shattered."

"Aye," she answered, "and oil can be spilt for the dogs to lap, if
their gorge does not rise at such rancid stuff. The holy oil forsooth!
Nay, the sour dregs of wine jars, the outscourings of the stews, the
filth of the stables, of such is the holy oil that burns in
Constantine, the drunkard and the liar."

It would seem that before this torrent of coarse invective Constantine
quailed, who at heart always feared his mother, and I think never more
so than when he appeared to triumph over her. Or perhaps he scorned to
answer it. At least, addressing Jodd, he said,

"Captain, I and my officers, standing yonder unseen, have heard
something of what passed in this place. By what warrant do you and
your company take upon yourselves to pass judgment upon this mother of
mine? That is the Emperor's right."

"By the warrant of capture, Augustus," answered Jodd. "We Northmen
took the palace and opened the gates to you and your Armenians. Also
we took her who ruled in the palace, with whom we had a private score
to settle that has to do with our general who stands yonder, blinded.
Well, it is settled in his own fashion, and now we do not yield up
this woman, our prisoner, save on your royal promise that no harm
shall come to her in body. As for the rest, it is your business. Make
a cook-maid of her if you will, only then I think her tongue would
clear the kitchen. But swear to keep her sound in life and limb till
hell calls her, since otherwise we must add her to our company, which
will make no man merrier."

"No," answered Constantine, "in a week she would corrupt you every one
and breed a war. Well," he added with a boisterous laugh, "I'm master
now at last, and I'll swear by any saint that you may name, or all of
them, no harm shall come to this Empress whose rule is done, and who,
being without friends, need not be feared. Still, lest she should
spawn more mischief or murder, she must be kept close till we and our
councillors decide where she shall dwell in future. Ho! guards, take
my royal father's widow to the dower-palace, and there watch her well.
If she escapes, you shall die beneath the rods. Away with the snake
before it begins to hiss again."

"I'll hiss no more," said Irene, as the soldiers formed up round her,
"yet, perchance, Constantine, you may live to find that the snake
still has strength to strike and poison in its fangs, you and others.
Do you come with me, Martina?"

"Nay, Lady, since here stands one whom God and you together have given
me to guard. For his sake I would keep my life in me," and she touched
me on the shoulder.

"That whelp who is called my son spoke truly when he said that the
fallen have no friends," exclaimed Irene. "Well, you should thank me,
Martina, who made Olaf blind, since, being without eyes, he cannot see
how ugly is your face. In his darkness he may perchance mistake you
for the beauteous Egyptian, Heliodore, as I know you who love him
madly would have him do."

With this vile taunt she went.

"I think I'm crazed," said the Emperor, as the doors swung to behind
her. "I should have struck that snake while the stick is in my hand. I
tell you I fear her fangs. Why, if she could, she'd make me as that
poor man is, blind, or even butcher me. Well, she's my mother, and
I've sworn, so there's an end. Now, you Olaf, you are that same
captain, are you not, who dashed the poisoned fig from my lips that
this tender mother of mine would have let me eat when I was in liquor;
yes, and would have swallowed it yourself to save me from my folly?"

"I am that man, Augustus."

"Aye, you are that man, and one of whom all the city has been talking.
They say, so poor is your taste, that you turned your back upon the
favours of an Empress because of some young girl you dared to love.
They say also that she paid you back with a dagger in the eyes, she
who was ready to set you in my place."

"Rumour has many tongues, Augustus," I answered. "At least I fell from
the Empress's favour, and she rewarded me as she held that I
deserved."

"So it seems. Christ! what a dreadful pit is that. Is this another of
her gifts? Nay, answer not; I heard the tale. Well, Olaf, you saved my
life and your Northmen have set me on the throne, since without them
we could scarcely have won the palace. Now, what payment would you
have?"

"Leave to go hence, Augustus," I answered.

"A small boon that you might have taken without asking, if you can
find a dog to lead you, like other blind wretches. And you, Captain
Jodd, and your men, what do you ask?"

"Such donation as it may please the Augustus to bestow, and after that
permission to follow wherever our General Olaf goes, since he is our
care. Here we have made so many enemies that we cannot sleep at
night."

"The Empress of the World falls from her throne," mused Constantine,
"and not even a waiting-maid attends her to her prison. But a blinded
captain finds a regiment to escort him hence in love and honour, as
though he were a new-crowned king. Truly Fortune is a jester. If ever
Fate should rob me of my eyes, I wonder, when I had nothing more to
give them, if three hundred faithful swords would follow me to ruin
and to exile?"

Thus he thought aloud. Afterwards he, Jodd and some others, Martina
among them, went aside, leaving me seated on a bench. Presently they
returned, and Constantine said,

"General Olaf, I and your companions have taken counsel. Listen. But
to-day messengers have come from Lesbos, whom we met outside the
gates. It seems that the governor there is dead, and that the accursed
Moslems threaten to storm the isle as soon as summer comes and add it
to their empire. Our Christian subjects there pray that a new governor
may be appointed, one who knows war, and that with him may be sent
troops sufficient to repel the prophet-worshippers, who, not having
many ships, cannot attack in great force. Now, Captain Jodd thinks
this task will be to the liking of the Northmen, and though you are
blind, I think that you would serve me well as governor of Lesbos. Is
it your pleasure to accept this office?"

"Aye, with thankfulness, Augustus," I answered. "Only, after the
Moslems are beaten back, if it pleases God that it should so befall, I
ask leave of absence for a while, since there is one for whom I must
search."

"I grant it, who name Captain Jodd your deputy. Stay, there's one more
thing. In Lesbos my mother has large vineyards and estates. As part
payment of her debt these shall be conveyed to you. Nay, no thanks; it
is I who owe them. Whatever his faults, Constantine is not ungrateful.
Moreover, enough time has been spent upon this matter. What say you,
Officer? That the Armenians are marshalled and that you have
Stauracius safe? Good! I come to lead them. Then to the Hippodrome to
be proclaimed."




                               BOOK III

                                EGYPT



                              CHAPTER I

                          TIDINGS FROM EGYPT

That curtain of oblivion without rent or seam sinks again upon the
visions of this past of mine. It falls, as it were, on the last of the
scenes in the dreadful chamber of the pit, to rise once more far from
Byzantium.

I am blind and can see nothing, for the power which enables me to
disinter what lies buried beneath the weight and wreck of so many ages
tells me no more than those things that once my senses knew. What I
did not hear then I do not hear now; what I did not see then I do not
see now. Thus it comes about that of Lesbos itself, of the shape of
its mountains or the colour of its seas I can tell nothing more than I
was told, because my sight never dwelt on them in any life that I can
remember.



It was evening. The heat of the sun had passed and the night breeze
blew through the wide, cool chamber in which I sat with Martina, whom
the soldiers, in their rude fashion, called "Olaf's Brown Dog." For
brown was her colouring, and she led me from place to place as dogs
are trained to lead blind men. Yet against her the roughest of them
never said an evil word; not from fear, but because they knew that
none could be said.

Martina was talking, she who always loved to talk, if not of one
thing, then of another.

"God-son," she said, "although you are a great grumbler, I tell you
that in my judgment you were born under a lucky star, or saint, call
it which you will. For instance, when you were walking up and down
that Hall of the Pit in the palace at Constantinople, which I always
dream of now if I sup too late----"

"And your spirit, or double, or whatever you call it, was kindly
leading me round the edge of the death-trap," I interrupted.

"----and my spirit, or double, making itself useful for once, was
doing what you say, well, who would have thought that before so very
long you would be the governor, much beloved, of the rich and
prosperous island of Lesbos; still the commander, much beloved, of
troops, many of them your own countrymen, and, although you are blind,
the Imperial general who has dealt the Moslems one of the worst
defeats they have suffered for a long while."

"Jodd and the others did that," I answered. "I only sat here and made
the plans."

"Jodd!" she exclaimed with contempt. "Jodd has no more head for plans
than a doorpost! Although it is true," she added with a softening of
the voice, "that he is a good man to lean on at a pinch, and a very
terrible fighter; also one who can keep such brain as God gave him
cool in the hour of terror, as Irene knows well enough. Yet it was
you, Olaf, not even I, but you, who remembered that the Northmen are
seafolk born, and turned all those trading vessels into war-galleys
and hid them in the little bays with a few of your people in command
of each. It was you who suffered the Moslem fleet to sail unmolested
into the Mitylene harbours, pretending and giving notice that the only
defence would be by land. Then, after they were at anchor and
beginning to disembark, it was you who fell on them at the dawn and
sank and slew till none remained save those of their army who were
taken prisoners or spared for ransom. Yes, and you commanded our ships
in person; and at night who is a better captain than a blind man? Oh!
you did well, very well; and you are rich with Irene's lands, and sit
here in comfort and in honour, with the best of health save for your
blindness, and I repeat that you were born under a lucky star--or
saint."

"Not altogether so, Martina," I answered with a sigh.

"Ah!" she replied, "man can never be content. As usual, you are
thinking of that Egyptian, I mean of the lady Heliodore, of whom, of
course, it is quite right that you should think. Well, it is true that
we have heard nothing of her. Still, that does not mean that we may
not hear. Perhaps Jodd has learned something from those prisoners.
Hark! he comes."

As she spoke I heard the guards salute without and Jodd's heavy step
at the door of the chamber.

"Greeting, General," he said presently. "I bring you good news. The
messengers to the Sultan Harun have returned with the ransom. Also
this Caliph sends a writing signed by himself and his ministers, in
which he swears by God and His Prophet that in consideration of our
giving up our prisoners, among whom, it seems, are some great men,
neither he nor his successors will attempt any new attack upon Lesbos
for thirty years. The interpreter will read it to you to-morrow, and
you can send your answering letters with the prisoners."

"Seeing that these heathen are so many and we are so few, we could
scarcely look for better terms," I said, "as I hope they will think at
Constantinople. At least the prisoners shall sail when all is in
order. Now for another matter. Have you inquired as to the Bishop
Barnabas and the Egyptian Prince Magas and his daughter?"

"Aye, General, this very day. I found that among the prisoners were
three of the commoner sort who have served in Egypt and left that land
not three months ago. Of these men two have never heard of the bishop
or the others. The third, however, who was wounded in the fight, had
some tidings."

"What tidings, Jodd?"

"None that are good, General. The bishop, he says, was killed by
Moslems a while ago, or so he had been told."

"God rest him. But the others, Jodd, what of the others?"

"This. It seems that the Copt, as he called him, Magas, returned from
a long journey, as we know he did, and raised an insurrection
somewhere in the south of Egypt, far up the Nile. An expedition was
sent against him, under one Musa, the Governor of Egypt, and there was
much fighting, in which this prisoner took part. The end of it was
that the Copts who fought with Magas were conquered with slaughter,
Magas himself was slain, for he would not fly, and his daughter, the
lady Heliodore, was taken prisoner with some other Coptic women."

"And then?" I gasped.

"Then, General, she was brought before the Emir Musa, who, noting her
beauty, proposed to make her his slave. At her prayer, however, being,
as the prisoner said, a merciful man, he gave her a week to mourn her
father before she entered his harem. Still, the worst," he went on
hurriedly, "did not happen. Before that week was done, as the Moslem
force was marching down the Nile, she stabbed the eunuch who was in
charge of her and escaped."

"I thank God," I said. "But, Jodd, how is the man sure that she was
Heliodore?"

"Thus: All knew her to be the daughter of Magas, one whom the
Egyptians held in honour. Moreover, among the Moslem soldiers she was
named 'the Lady of the Shells,' because of a certain necklace she
wore, which you will remember."

"What more?" I asked.

"Only that the Emir Musa was very angry at her loss and because of it
caused certain soldiers to be beaten on the feet. Moreover, he halted
his army and offered a reward for her. For two days they hunted, even
searching some tombs where it was thought she might have hidden, but
there found nothing but the dead. Then the Emir returned down the
Nile, and that is the end of the story."

"Send this prisoner to me at once, Jodd, with an interpreter. I would
question him myself."

"I fear he is not fit to come, General."

"Then I will go to him. Lead me, Martina."

"If so, you must go far, General, for he died an hour ago, and his
companions are making him ready for burial."

"Jodd," I said angrily, "those men have been in our hands for weeks.
How comes it that you did not discover these things before? You had my
orders."

"Because, General, until they knew that they were to go free none of
these prisoners would tell us anything. However closely they were
questioned, they said that it was against their oath, and that first
they would die. A long while ago I asked this very man of Egypt, and
he vowed that he had never been there."

"Be comforted, Olaf," broke in Martina, "for what more could he have
told you?"

"Nothing, perchance," I answered; "yet I should have gained many days
of time. Know that I go to Egypt to search for Heliodore."

"Be comforted again," said Martina. "This you could not have done
until the peace was signed; it would have been against your oath and
duty."

"That is so," I answered heavily.



"Olaf," said Martina to me that night after Jodd had left us, "you say
that you will go to Egypt. How will you go? Will the blind Christian
general of the Empire, who has just dealt so great a defeat to the
mighty Caliph of the East, be welcome in Egypt? Above all, will he be
welcomed by the Emir Musa, who rules there, when it is known that he
comes to seek a woman who has escaped from that Emir's harem? Why,
within an hour he'd offer you the choice between death and the Koran.
Olaf, this thing is madness."

"It may be, Martina. Still, I go to seek Heliodore."

"If Heliodore still lives you will not help her by dying, and if she
is dead time will be little to her and she can wait for you a while."

"Yet I go, Martina."

"You, being blind, go to Egypt to seek one whom those who rule there
have searched for in vain. So be it. But how will you go? It cannot be
as an open enemy, since then you would need a fleet and ten thousand
swords to back you, which you have not. To take a few brave men,
unless they were Moslems, which is impossible, would be but to give
them to death. How do you go, Olaf?"

"I do not know, Martina. Your brain is more nimble than mine; think,
think, and tell me."

I heard Martina rise and walk up and down the room for a long time. At
length she returned and sat herself by me again.

"Olaf," she said, "you always had a taste for music. You have told me
that as a boy in your northern home you used to play upon the harp and
sing songs to it of your own making, and now, since you have been
blind, you have practised at this art till you are its master. Also,
my voice is good; indeed, it is my only gift. It was my voice that
first brought me to Irene's notice, when I was but the daughter of a
poor Greek gentleman who had been her father's friend and therefore
was given a small place about the Court. Of late we have sung many
songs together, have we not, certain of them in that northern tongue,
of which you have taught me something?"

"Yes, Martina; but what of it?"

"You are dull, Olaf. I have heard that these Easterns love music,
especially if it be of a sort they do not know. Why, therefore, should
not a blind man and his daughter--no, his orphaned niece--earn an
honest living as travelling musicians in Egypt? These Prophet
worshippers, I am told, think it a great sin to harm one who is maimed
--a poor northern trader in amber who has been robbed by Christian
thieves. Rendered sightless also that he might not be able to swear to
them before the judges, and now, with his sister's child, winning his
bread as best he may. Like you, Olaf, I have skill in languages, and
even know enough of Arabic to beg in it, for my mother, who was a
Syrian, taught it to me as a child, and since we have been here I have
practised. What say you?"

"I say that we might travel as safely thus as in any other way. Yet,
Martina, how can I ask you to tie such a burden on your back?"

"Oh! no need to ask, Olaf, since Fate bound it there when it made me
your--god-mother. Where you go I needs must go also, until you are
married," she added with a laugh. "Afterwards, perhaps, you will need
me no more. Well, there's a plan, for what it is worth, and now we'll
sleep on it, hoping to find a better. Pray to St. Michael to-night,
Olaf."

As it chanced, St. Michael gave me no light, so the end of it was that
I determined to play this part of a blind harper. In those days there
was a trade between Lesbos and Egypt in cedar wood, wool, wine for the
Copts, for the Moslems drank none, and other goods. Peace having been
declared between the island and the Caliph, a small vessel was laden
with such merchandise at my cost, and a Greek of Lesbos, Menas by
name, put in command of it as the owner, with a crew of sailors whom I
could trust to the death.

To these men, who were Christians, I told my business, swearing them
to secrecy by the most holy of all oaths. But, alas! as I shall show,
although I could trust these sailors when they were masters of
themselves, I could not trust them, or, rather, one of them, when wine
was his master. In our northern land we had a saying that "Ale is
another man," and now its truth was to be proved to me, not for the
first time.

When all was ready I made known my plans to Jodd alone, in whose hands
I left a writing to say what must be done if I returned no more. To
the other officers and the soldiers I said only that I proposed to
make a journey in this trading ship disguised as a merchant, both for
my health's sake and to discover for myself the state of the
surrounding countries, and especially of the Christians in Egypt.

When he had heard all, Jodd, although he was a hopeful-minded man,
grew sad over this journey, which I could see he thought would be my
last.

"I expected no less," he said; "and yet, General, I trusted that your
saint might keep your feet on some safer path. Doubtless this lady
Heliodore is dead, or fled, or wed; at least, you will never find
her."

"Still, I must search for her, Jodd."

"You are a blind man. How can you search?"

Then an idea came to him, and he added,

"Listen, General. I and the rest of us swore to protect the lady
Heliodore and to be as her father or her brothers. Do you bide here. I
will go to search for her, either with a vessel full of armed men, or
alone, disguised."

Now I laughed outright and asked,

"What disguise is there that would hide the giant Jodd, whose fame the
Moslem spies have spread throughout the East? Why, on the darkest
night your voice would betray you to all within a hundred paces. And
what use would one shipload of armed men be against the forces of the
Emir of Egypt? No, no, Jodd, whatever the danger I must go and I
alone. If I am killed, or do not return within eight months, I have
named you to be Governor of Lesbos, as already you have been named my
deputy by Constantine, which appointment will probably be confirmed."

"I do not want to be Governor of Lesbos," said Jodd. "Moreover, Olaf,"
he added slowly, "a blind beggar must have his dog to lead him, his
brown dog. You cannot go alone, Olaf. Those dangers of which you speak
must be shared by another."

"That is so, and it troubles me much. Indeed, it is in my mind to seek
some other guide, for I think this one would be safest here in your
charge. You must reason with her, Jodd. One can ask too much, even of
a god-mother."

"Of a god-mother! Why not say of a grandmother? By Thor! Olaf, you are
blind indeed. Still, I'll try. Hush! here she comes to say that our
supper is ready."

At our meal several others were present, besides the serving folk, and
the talk was general. After it was done I had an interview with some
officers. These left, and I sat myself down upon a cushioned couch,
and, being tired, there fell asleep, till I was awakened, or, rather,
half awakened by voices talking in the garden without. They were those
of Jodd and Martina, and Martina was saying,

"Cease your words. I and no one else will go on this Egyptian quest
with Olaf. If we die, as I dare say we shall, what does it matter? At
least he shall not die alone."

"And if the quest should fail, Martina? I mean if he should not find
the lady Heliodore and you should happen both to return safe, what
then?"

"Why, then--nothing, except that as it has been, so it will be. I
shall continue to play my part, as is my duty and my wish. Do you not
remember that I am Olaf's god-mother?"

"Yes, I remember. Still, I have heard somewhere that the Christian
Church never ties a knot which it cannot unloose--for a proper fee,
and for my part I do not know why a man should not marry one of
different blood because she has been named his god-mother before a
stone vessel by a man in a broidered robe. You say I do not understand
such matters. Perhaps, so let them be. But, Martina, let us suppose
that this strange search were to succeed, and Olaf has a way of
succeeding where others would fail. For instance, who else could have
escaped alive out of the hand of Irene and become governor of Lesbos,
and, being blind, yet have planned a great victory? Well, supposing
that by the help of gods or men--or women--he should find this
beautiful Heliodore, unwed and still willing, and that they should
marry. What then, Martina?"

"Then, Captain Jodd," she answered slowly, "if you are yet of the same
mind we may talk again. Only remember that I ask no promises and make
none."

"So you go to Egypt with Olaf?"

"Aye, certainly, unless I should die first, and perhaps even then. You
do not understand? Oh! of course you do not understand, nor can I stop
to explain to you. Captain Jodd, I am going to Egypt with a certain
blind beggar, whose name I forget at the moment, but who is my uncle,
where no doubt I shall see many strange things. If ever I come back I
will tell you about them, and, meanwhile, good night."



                              CHAPTER II

                       THE STATUES BY THE NILE

The first thing that I remember of this journey to Egypt is that I was
sitting in the warm morning sunshine on the deck of our little trading
vessel, that went by the name of the heathen goddess, Diana. We were
in the port of Alexandria. Martina, who now went by the name of Hilda,
stood by my side describing to me the great city that lay before us.

She told me of the famous Pharos still rising from its rock, although
in it the warning light no longer burned, for since the Moslems took
Egypt they had let it die, as some said because they feared lest it
should guide a Christian fleet to attack them. She described also the
splendid palaces that the Greeks had built, many of them now empty or
burned out, the Christian churches, the mosques, the broad streets and
the grass-grown quays.

As we were thus engaged, she talking and I listening and asking
questions, she said,

"The boat is coming with the Saracen officers of the port, who must
inspect and pass the ship before she is allowed to discharge her
cargo. Now, Olaf, remember that henceforth you are called Hodur." (I
had taken this name after that of the blind god of the northern
peoples.) "Play your part well, and, above all, be humble. If you are
reviled, or even struck, show no anger, and be sure to keep that red
sword of yours close hidden beneath your robe. If you do these things
we shall be safe, for I tell you that we are well disguised."

The boat came alongside and I heard men climbing the ship's ladder.
Then someone kicked me. It was our captain, Menas, who also had his
part to play.

"Out of the road, you blind beggar," he said. "The noble officers of
the Caliph board our ship, and you block their path."

"Touch not one whom God has afflicted," said a grave voice, speaking
in bad Greek. "It is easy for us to walk round the man. But who is he,
captain, and why does he come to Egypt? By their looks he and the
woman with him might well have seen happier days."

"I know not, lord," answered the captain, "who, after they paid their
passage money, took no more note of them. Still they play and sing
well, and served to keep the sailors in good humour when we were
becalmed."

"Sir," I broke in, "I am a Northman named Hodur, and this woman is my
niece. I was a trader in amber, but thieves robbed me and my
companions of all we had as we journeyed to Byzantium. Me, who was the
leader of our band, they held to ransom, blinding me lest I should be
able to swear to them again, but the others they killed. This is the
only child of my sister, who married a Greek, and now we get our
living by our skill in music."

"Truly you Christians love each other well," said the officer. "Accept
the Koran and you will not be treated thus. But why do you come to
Egypt?"

"Sir, we heard that it is a rich land where the people love music, and
have come hoping to earn some money here that we may put by to live
on. Send us not away, sir; we have a little offering to make. Niece
Hilda, where is the gold piece I gave you? Offer it to this lord."

"Nay, nay," said the officer. "Shall I take bread out of the mouth of
the poor? Clerk," he added in Arabic to a man who was with him, "make
out a writing giving leave to these two to land and to ply their
business anywhere in Egypt without question or hindrance, and bring it
to me to seal. Farewell, musicians. I fear you will find money scarce
in Egypt, for the land has been stricken with a famine. Yet go and
prosper in the name of God, and may He turn your hearts to the true
faith."

Thus it came about that through the good mind of this Moslem, whose
name, as I learned when we met again, was Yusuf, our feet were lifted
over many stumbling-blocks. Thus it seems that by virtue of his office
he had power to prevent the entry into the land of such folk as we
seemed to be, which power, if they were Christians, was almost always
put in force. Yet because he had seen the captain appear to illtreat
me, or because, being a soldier himself, he guessed that I was of the
same trade, whatever tale it might please me to tell, this rule was
not enforced. Moreover, the writing which he gave me enabled me to go
where we wished in Egypt without let or hindrance. Whenever we were
stopped or threatened, which happened to us several times, it was
enough if we presented it to the nearest person in authority who could
read, after which we were allowed to pass upon our way unhindered.

Before we left the ship I had a last conversation with the captain,
Menas, telling him that he was to lie in the harbour, always
pretending that he waited for some cargo not yet forthcoming, such as
unharvested corn, or whatever was convenient, until we appeared again.
If after a certain while we did not appear, then he was to make a
trading journey to neighbouring ports and return to Alexandria. These
artifices he must continue to practise until orders to the contrary
reached him under my own hand, or until he had sure evidence that we
were dead. All this the man promised that he would do.

"Yes," said Martina, who was with me, "you promise, Captain, and we
believe you, but the question is, can you answer for the others? For
instance, for the sailor Cosmas there, who, I see, is already drunken
and talking loudly about many things."

"Henceforth, lady, Cosmas shall drink water only. When not in his cups
he is an honest fellow, and I do answer for him."

Yet, alas! as the end showed, Cosmas was not to be answered for by
anyone.



We went ashore and took up our abode in a certain house, where we were
safe. Whether the Christian owners of that house did or did not know
who we were, I am not certain. At any rate, through them we were
introduced at night into the palace of Politian, the Melchite
Patriarch of Alexandria. He was a stern-faced, black-bearded man of
honest heart but narrow views, of whom the Bishop Barnabas had often
spoken to me as his closest friend. To this Politian I told all under
the seal of our Faith, asking his aid in my quest. When I had finished
my tale he thought a while. Then he said,

"You are a bold man, General Olaf; so bold that I think God must be
leading you to His own ends. Now, you have heard aright. Barnabas, my
beloved brother and your father in Christ, has been taken hence. He
was murdered by some fanatic Moslems soon after his return from
Byzantium. Also it is true that the Prince Magas was killed in war by
the Emir Musa, and that the lady Heliodore escaped out of his
clutches. What became of her afterwards no man knows, but for my part
I believe that she is dead."

"And I believe that she is alive," I answered, "and therefore I go to
seek her."

"Seek and ye shall find," mused the Patriarch; "at least, I hope so,
though my advice to you is to bide here and send others to seek."

"That I will not do," I answered again.

"Then go, and God be with you. I'll warn certain of the faithful of
your coming, so that you may not lack a friend at need. When you
return, if you should ever return, come to me, for I have more
influence with these Moslems than most, and may be able to serve you.
I can say no more, and it is not safe that you should tarry here too
long. Stay, I forget. There are two things you should know. The first
is that the Emir Musa, he who seized the lady Heliodore, is about to
be deposed. I have the news from the Caliph Harun himself, for with
him I am on friendly terms because of a service I did him through my
skill in medicine. The second is that Irene has beguiled Constantine,
or bewitched him, I know not which. At least, by his own proclamation
once more she rules the Empire jointly with himself, and that I think
will be his death warrant, and perhaps yours also."

"Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof," I said. "Now if I live
I shall learn whether any oaths are sacred to Irene, as will
Constantine."

Then we parted.



Leaving Alexandria, we wandered first to the town of Misra, which
stood near to the mighty pyramids, beneath whose shadow we slept one
night in an empty tomb. Thence by slow marches we made our way up the
banks of the Nile, earning our daily bread by the exercise of our art.
Once or twice we were stopped as spies, but always released again when
I produced the writing that the officer Yusuf had given me upon the
ship. For the rest, none molested us in a land where wandering beggars
were so common. Of money it is true we earned little, but as we had
gold in plenty sewn into our garments this did not matter. Food was
all we needed, and that, as I have said, was never lacking.

So we went on our strange journey, day by day learning more of the
tongues spoken in Egypt, and especially of Arabic, which the Moslems
used. Whither did we journey? We know not for certain. What I sought
to find were those two huge statues of which I had dreamed at Aar on
the night of the robbing of the Wanderer's tomb. We heard that there
were such figures of stone, which were said to sing at daybreak, and
that they sat upon a plain on the western bank of the Nile, near to
the ruins of the great city of Thebes, now but a village, called by
the Arabs El-Uksor, or "the Palaces." So far as we could discover, it
was in the neighbourhood of this city that Heliodore had escaped from
Musa, and there, if anywhere, I hoped to gain tidings of her fate.
Also something within my heart drew me to those images of forgotten
gods or men.

At length, two months or more after we left Alexandria, from the deck
of the boat in which we had hired a passage for the last hundred miles
of our journey, Martina saw to the east the ruins of Thebes. To the
west she saw other ruins, and seated in front of them /two mighty
figures of stone/.

"This is the place," she said, and my heart leapt at her words. "Now
let us land and follow our fortune."

So when the boat was tied up at sunset, to the west bank of the river,
as it happened, we bade farewell to the owner and went ashore.

"Whither now?" asked Martina.

"To the figures of stone," I answered.

So she led me through fields in which the corn was growing, to the
edge of the desert, meeting no man all the way. Then for a mile or
more we tramped through sand, till at length, late at night, Martina
halted.

"We stand beneath the statues," she said, "and they are awesome to
look on; mighty, seated kings, higher than a tall tree."

"What lies behind them?" I asked.

"The ruins of a great temple."

"Lead me to that temple."

So we passed through a gateway into a court, and there we halted.

"Now tell me what you see," I said.

"We stand in what has been a hall of many columns," she answered, "but
the most of them are broken. At our feet is a pool in which there is a
little water. Before us lies the plain on which the statues sit,
stretching some miles to the Nile, that is fringed with palms. Across
the broad Nile are the ruins of old Thebes. Behind us are more ruins
and a line of rugged hills of stone, and in them, a little to the
north, the mouth of a valley. The scene is very beautiful beneath the
moon, but very sad and desolate."

"It is the place that I saw in my dream many years ago at Aar," I
said.

"It may be," she answered, "but if so it must have changed, since,
save for a jackal creeping among the columns and a dog that barks in
some distant village, I neither see nor hear a living thing. What now,
Olaf?"

"Now we will eat and sleep," I said. "Perhaps light will come to us in
our sleep."

So we ate of the food we had brought with us, and afterwards lay down
to rest in a little chamber, painted round with gods, that Martina
found in the ruins of the temple.

During that night no dreams came to me, nor did anything happen to
disturb us, even in this old temple, of which the very paving-stones
were worn through by the feet of the dead.

Before the dawn Martina led me back to the colossal statues, and we
waited there, hoping that we should hear them sing, as tradition said
they did when the sun rose. Yet the sun came up as it had done from
the beginning of the world, and struck upon those giant effigies as it
had done for some two thousand years, or so I was told, and they
remained quite silent. I do not think that ever I grieved more over my
blindness than on this day, when I must depend upon Martina to tell me
of the glory of that sunrise over the Egyptian desert and those mighty
ruins reared by the hands of forgotten men.

Well, the sun rose, and, since the statues would not speak, I took my
harp and played upon it, and Martina sang a wild Eastern song to my
playing. It seemed that our music was heard. At any rate, a few folk
going out to labour came to see by whom it was caused, and finding
only two wandering musicians, presently went away again. Still, one
remained, a woman, Coptic by her dress, with whom I heard Martina
talk. She asked who we were and why we had come to such a place,
whereon Martina repeated to her the story which we had told a hundred
times. The woman answered that we should earn little money in those
parts, as the famine had been sore there owing to the low Nile of the
previous season. Until the crops were ripe again, which in the case of
most of them would not be for some weeks, even food, she added, must
be scarce, though few were left to eat it, since the Moslems had
killed out most of those who dwelt in that district of Upper Egypt.

Martina replied that she knew this was so, and therefore we had
proposed either to travel on to Nubia or to return north. Still, as I,
her blind uncle, was not well, we had landed from a boat hoping that
we might find some place where we could rest for a week or two until I
grew stronger.

"Yet," she continued meaningly, "being poor Christian folk we know not
where to look for such a place, since Cross worshippers are not
welcome among those who follow the Prophet."

Now, when the woman heard that we were Christians her voice changed.
"I also am a Christian," she said; "but give me the sign."

So we made the sign of the Cross on our breasts, which a Moslem will
die rather than do.

"My husband and I," went on the woman, "live yonder at the village of
Kurna, which is situated near to the mouth of the valley that is
called Biban-el-Meluk, or Gate of the Kings, for there the monarchs of
old days, who were the forefathers or rulers of us Copts, lie buried.
It is but a very small village, for the Moslems have killed most of us
in a war that was raised a while ago between them and our hereditary
prince, Magas. Yet my husband and I have a good house there, and,
being poor, shall be glad to give you food and shelter if you can pay
us something."

The end of it was that after some chaffering, for we dared not show
that we had much money, a bargain was struck between us and this good
woman, who was named Palka. Having paid her a week's charges in
advance, she led us to the village of Kurna, which was nearly an
hour's walk away, and here made us known to her husband, a middle-aged
man named Marcus, who took little note of anything save his farming.

This he carried on upon a patch of fertile ground that was irrigated
by a spring which flowed from the mountains; also he had other lands
near to the Nile, where he grew corn and fodder for his beasts. In his
house, that once had been part of some great stone building of the
ancients, and still remained far larger than he could use, for this
pair had no children, we were given two good rooms. Here we dwelt in
comfort, since, notwithstanding the scarcity of the times, Marcus was
richer than he seemed and lived well. As for the village of Kurna, its
people all told did not amount to more than thirty souls, Christians
every one of them, who were visited from time to time by a Coptic
priest from some distant monastery in the mountains.

By degrees we grew friendly with Palka, a pleasant, bustling woman of
good birth, who loved to hear of the outside world. Moreover, she was
very shrewd, and soon began to suspect that we were more than mere
wandering players.

Pretending to be weak and ill, I did not go out much, but followed her
about the house while she was working, talking to her on many matters.

Thus I led up the subject of Prince Magas and his rebellion, and
learned that he had been killed at a place about fifty miles south
from Kurna. Then I asked if it were true that his daughter had been
killed with him.

"What do you know of the lady Heliodore?" she asked sharply.

"Only that my niece, who for a while was a servant in the palace at
Byzantium before she was driven away with others after the Empress
fell, saw her there. Indeed, it was her business to wait upon her and
her father the Prince. Therefore, she is interested in her fate."

"It seems that you are more interested than your niece, who has never
spoken a word to me concerning her," answered Palka. "Well, since you
are a man, I should not have thought this strange, had you not been
blind, for they say she was the most beautiful woman in Egypt. As for
her fate, you must ask God, since none know it. When the army of Musa
was encamped yonder by the Nile my husband, Marcus, who had taken two
donkey-loads of forage for sale to the camp and was returning by
moonlight, saw her run past him, a red knife in her hand, her face set
towards the Gateway of the Kings. After that he saw her no more, nor
did anyone else, although they hunted long enough, even in the tombs,
which the Moslems, like our people, fear to visit. Doubtless she fell
or threw herself into some hole in the rocks; or perhaps the wild
beasts ate her. Better so than that a child of the old Pharaohs should
become the woman of an infidel."

"Yes," I answered, "better so. But why do folk fear to visit those
tombs of which you speak, Palka?"

"Why? Because they are haunted, that is all, and even the bravest
dread the sight of a ghost. How could they be otherwise than haunted,
seeing that yonder valley is sown with the mighty dead like a field
with corn?"

"Yet the dead sleep quietly enough, Palka."

"Aye, the common dead, Hodur; but not these kings and queens and
princes, who, being gods of a kind, cannot die. It is said that they
hold their revels yonder at night with songs and wild laughter, and
that those who look upon them come to an evil end within a year.
Whether this be so I cannot say, since for many years none have dared
to visit that place at night. Yet that they eat I know well enough."

"How do you know, Palka?"

"For a good reason. With the others in this village I supply the
offerings of their food. The story runs that once the great building,
of which this house is a part, was a college of heathen priests whose
duty it was to make offerings to the dead in the royal tombs. When the
Christians came, those priests were driven away, but we of Kurna who
live in their house still make the offerings. If we did not,
misfortune would overtake us, as indeed has always happened if they
were forgotten or neglected. It is the rent that we pay to the ghosts
of the kings. Twice a week we pay it, setting food and milk and water
upon a certain stone near to the mouth of the valley."

"Then what happens, Palka?"

"Nothing, except that the offering is taken."

"By beggar folk, or perchance by wild creatures!"

"Would beggar folk dare to enter that place of death?" she answered
with contempt. "Or would wild beasts take the food and pile the dishes
neatly together and replace the flat stones on the mouths of the jars
of milk and water, as a housewife might? Oh! do not laugh. Of late
this has always been done, as I who often fetch the vessels know
well."

"Have you ever seen these ghosts, Palka?"

"Yes, once I saw one of them. It was about two months ago that I
passed the mouth of the valley after moonrise, for I had been kept out
late searching for a kid which was lost. Thinking that it might be in
the valley, I peered up it. As I was looking, from round a great rock
glided a ghost. She stood still, with the moonlight shining on her,
and gazed towards the Nile. I, too, stood still in the shadow, thirty
or forty paces away. Then she threw up her arms as though in despair,
turned and vanished."

"She!" I said, then checked myself and asked indifferently: "Well,
what was the fashion of this ghost?"

"So far as I could see that of a young and beautiful woman, wearing
such clothes as we find upon the ancient dead, only wrapped more
loosely about her."

"Had she aught upon her head, Palka?"

"Yes, a band of gold or a crown set upon her hair, and about her neck
what seemed to be a necklace of green and gold, for the moonlight
flashed upon it. It was much such a necklace as you wear beneath your
robe, Hodur."

"And pray how do you know what I wear, Palka?" I asked.

"By means of what you lack, poor man, the eyes in my head. One night
when you were asleep I had need to pass through your chamber to reach
another beyond. You had thrown off your outer garment because of the
heat, and I saw the necklace. Also I saw a great red sword lying by
your side and noted on your bare breast sundry scars, such as hunters
and soldiers come by. All of these things, Hodur, I thought strange,
seeing that I know you to be nothing but a poor blind beggar who gains
his bread by his skill upon the harp."

"There are beggars who were not always beggars, Palka," I said slowly.

"Quite so, Hodur, and there are great men and rich who sometimes
appear to be beggars, and--many other things. Still, have no fear that
we shall steal your necklace or talk about the red sword or the gold
with which your niece Hilda weights her garments. Poor girl, she has
all the ways of a fine lady, one who has known Courts, as I think you
said was the case. It must be sad for her to have fallen so low.
Still, have no fear, Hodur," and she took my hand and pressed it in a
certain secret fashion which was practised among the persecuted
Christians in the East when they would reveal themselves to each
other. Then she went away laughing.

As for me, I sought Martina, who had been sleeping through the heat,
and told her everything.

"Well," she said when I had finished, "you should give thanks to God,
Olaf, since without doubt this ghost is the lady Heliodore. So should
Jodd," I heard her add beneath her breath, for in my blindness my ears
had grown very quick.



                             CHAPTER III

                     THE VALLEY OF THE DEAD KINGS

Martina and I had made a plan. Palka, after much coaxing, took us with
her one evening when she went to place the accustomed offerings in the
Valley of the Dead. Indeed, at first she refused outright to allow us
to accompany her, because, she said, only those who were born in the
village of Kurna had made such offerings since the days when the
Pharaohs ruled, and that if strangers shared in this duty it might
bring misfortune. We answered, however, that if so the misfortune
would fall on us, the intruders. Also we pointed out that the jars of
water and milk were heavy, and, as it happened, there was no one from
the hamlet to help to carry them this night. Having weighed these
facts, Palka changed her mind.

"Well," she said, "it is true that I grow fat, and after labouring all
day at this and that have no desire to bear burdens like an ass. So
come if you will, and if you die or evil spirits carry you away, do
not add yourselves to the number of the ghosts, of whom there are too
many hereabouts, and blame me afterwards."

"On the contrary," I said, "we will make you our heirs," and I laid a
bag containing some pieces of money upon the table.

Palka, who was a saving woman, took the money, for I heard it rattle
in her hand, hung the jars about my shoulders, and gave Martina the
meat and corn in a basket. The flat cakes, however, she carried
herself on a wooden trencher, because, as she said, she feared lest we
should break them and anger the ghosts, who liked their food to be
well served. So we started, and presently entered the mouth of that
awful valley which, Martina told me, looked as though it had been
riven through the mountain by lightning strokes and then blasted with
a curse.

Up this dry and desolate place, which, she said, was bordered on
either side by walls of grey and jagged rock, we walked in silence.
Only I noted that the dog which had followed us from the house clung
close to our heels and now and again whimpered uneasily.

"The beast sees what we cannot see," whispered Palka in explanation.

At last we halted, and I set down the jars at her bidding upon a flat
rock which she called the Table of Offerings.

"See!" she exclaimed to Martina, "those that were placed here three
days ago are all emptied and neatly piled together by the ghosts. I
told Hodur that they did this, but he would not believe me. Now let us
pack them up in the baskets and begone, for the sun sets and the moon
rises within the half of an hour. I would not be here in the dark for
ten pieces of pure gold."

"Then go swiftly, Palka," I said, "for we bide here this night."

"Are you mad?" she asked.

"Not at all," I answered. "A wise man once told me that if one who is
blind can but come face to face with a spirit, he sees it and thereby
regains his sight. If you would know the truth, that is why I have
wandered so far from my own country to find some land where ghosts may
be met."

"Now I am sure that you are mad," exclaimed Palka. "Come, Hilda, and
leave this fool to make trial of his cure for blindness."

"Nay," answered Martina, "I must stay with my uncle, although I am
very much afraid. If I did not, he would beat me afterwards."

"Beat you! Hodur beat a woman! Oh! you are both mad. Or perhaps you
are ghosts also. I have thought it once or twice, who at least am sure
that you are other than you seem. Holy Jesus! this place grows dark,
and I tell you it is full of dead kings. May the Saints guard you; at
the least, you'll keep high company at your death. Farewell; whate'er
befalls, blame me not who warned you," and she departed at a run, the
empty vessels rattling on her back and the dog yapping behind her.

When she had gone the silence grew deep.

"Now, Martina," I whispered, "find some place where we may hide whence
you can see this Table of Offerings."

She led me to where a fallen rock lay within a few paces, and behind
it we sat ourselves down in such a position that Martina could watch
the Table of Offerings by the light of the moon.

Here we waited for a long while; it may have been two hours, or three,
or four. At least I knew that, although I could see nothing, the
solemnity of that place sank into my soul. I felt as though the dead
were moving about me in the silence. I think it was the same with
Martina, for although the night was very hot in that stifling, airless
valley, she shivered at my side. At last I felt her start and heard
her whisper:

"I see a figure. It creeps from the shadow of the cliff towards the
Table of Offerings."

"What is it like?" I asked.

"It is a woman's figure draped in white cloths; she looks about her;
she takes up the offerings and places them in a basket she carries. It
is a woman--no ghost--for she drinks from one of the jars. Oh! now the
moonlight shines upon her face; it is /that of Heliodore!/"

I heard and could restrain myself no longer. Leaping up, I ran towards
where I knew the Table of Offerings to be. I tried to speak, but my
voice choked in my throat. The woman saw or heard me coming through
the shadows. At least, uttering a low cry, she fled away, for I caught
the sound of her feet on the rocks and sand. Then I tripped over a
stone and fell down.

In a moment Martina was at my side.

"Truly you are foolish, Olaf," she said. "Did you think that the lady
Heliodore would know you at night, changed as you are and in this
garb, that you must rush at her like an angry bull? Now she has gone,
and perchance we shall never find her more. Why did you not speak to
her?"

"Because my voice choked within me. Oh! blame me not, Martina. If you
knew what it is to love as I do and after so many fears and
sorrows----"

"I trust that I should know also how to control my love," broke in
Martina sharply. "Come, waste no more time in talk. Let us search."

Then she took me by the hand and led me to where she had last seen
Heliodore.

"She has vanished away," she said, "here is nothing but rock."

"It cannot be," I answered. "Oh! that I had my eyes again, if for an
hour, I who was the best tracker in Jutland. See if no stone has been
stirred, Martina. The sand will be damper where it has lain."

She left me, and presently returned.

"I have found something," she said. "When Heliodore fled she still
held her basket, which from the look of it was last used by the
Pharaohs. At least, one of the cakes has fallen from or through it.
Come."

She led me to the cliff, and up it to perhaps twice the height of a
man, then round a projecting rock.

"Here is a hole," she said, "such as jackals might make. Perchance it
leads into one of the old tombs whereof the mouth is sealed. It was on
the edge of the hole that I found the cake, therefore doubtless
Heliodore went down it. Now, what shall we do?"

"Follow, I think. Where is it?"

"Nay, I go first. Give me your hand, Olaf, and lie upon your breast."

I did so, and presently felt the weight of Martina swinging on my arm.

"Leave go," she said faintly, like one who is afraid.

I obeyed, though with doubt, and heard her feet strike upon some
floor.

"Thanks be the saints, all is well," she said. "For aught I knew this
hole might have been as deep as that in the Chamber of the Pit. Let
yourself down it, feet first, and drop. 'Tis but shallow."

I did so, and found myself beside Martina.

"Now, in the darkness you are the better guide," she whispered. "Lead
on, I'll follow, holding to your robe."

So I crept forward warily and safely, as the blind can do, till
presently she exclaimed,

"Halt, here is light again. I think that the roof of the tomb, for by
the paintings on the walls such it must be, has fallen in. It seems to
be a kind of central chamber, out of which run great galleries that
slope downwards and are full of bats. Ah! one of them is caught in my
hair. Olaf, I will go no farther. I fear bats more than ghosts, or
anything in the world."

Now, I considered a while till a thought struck me. On my back was my
beggar's harp. I unslung it and swept its chords, and wild and sad
they sounded in that solemn place. Then I began to sing an old song
that twice or thrice I had sung with Heliodore in Byzantium. This song
told of a lover seeking his mistress. It was for two voices, since in
the song the mistress answered verse for verse. Here are those of the
lines that I remember, or, rather, the spirit of them rendered into
English. I sang the first verse and waited.

 "Dear maid of mine,
    I bid my strings
  Beat on thy shrine
    With music's wings.
  Palace or cell
    A shrine I see,
  If there thou dwell
    And answer me."

There was no answer, so I sang the second verse and once more waited.

 "On thy love's fire
    My passion breathes,
  Wind of Desire
    Thy incense wreathes.
  Greeting! To thee,
    Or soon or late,
  I, bond or free,
    Am dedicate."

And from somewhere far away in the recesses of that great cave came
the answering strophe.

 "O Love sublime
    And undismayed,
  No touch of Time
    Upon thee laid.
  That that is thine;
    Ended the quest!
  I seek /my/ shrine
    Upon /thy/ breast."

Then I laid down the harp.

At last a voice, the voice of Heliodore speaking whence I knew not,
asked,

"Do the dead sing, or is it a living man? And if so, how is that man
named?"

"A living man," I replied, "and he is named Olaf, son of Thorvald, or
otherwise Michael. That name was given him in the cathedral at
Byzantium, where first his eyes fell on a certain Heliodore, daughter
of Magas the Egyptian, whom now he seeks."

I heard the sound of footsteps creeping towards me and Heliodore's
voice say,

"Let me see your face, you who name yourself Olaf, for know that in
these haunted tombs ghosts and visions and mocking voices play strange
tricks. Why do you hide your face, you who call yourself Olaf?"

"Because the eyes are gone from it, Heliodore. Irene robbed it of the
eyes from jealousy of you, swearing that never more should they behold
your beauty. Perchance you would not wish to come too near to an
eyeless man wrapped in a beggar's robe."

She looked--I felt her look. She sobbed--I heard her sob, and then her
arms were about me and her lips were pressed upon my own.

So at length came joy such as I cannot tell; the joy of lost love
found again.



A while went by, how long I know not, and at last I said,

"Where is Martina? It is time we left this place."

"Martina!" she exclaimed. "Do you mean Irene's lady, and is she here?
If so, how comes she to be travelling with you, Olaf?"

"As the best friend man ever had, Heliodore; as one who clung to him
in his ruin and saved him from a cruel death; as one who has risked
her life to help him in his desperate search, and without whom that
search had failed."

"Then may God reward her, Olaf, for I did not know there were such
women in the world. Lady Martina! Where are you, lady Martina?"

Thrice she cried the words, and at the third time an answer came from
the shadows at a distance.

"I am here," said Martina's voice with a little yawn. "I was weary and
have slept while you two greeted each other. Well met at last, lady
Heliodore. See, I have brought you back your Olaf, blind it is true,
but otherwise lacking nothing of health and strength and station."

Then Heliodore ran to her and kissed first her hand and next her lips.
In after days she told me that for those of one who had been sleeping
the eyes of Martina seemed to be strangely wet and red. But if this
were so her voice trembled not at all.

"Truly you two should give thanks to God," she said, "Who has brought
you together again in so wondrous a fashion, as I do on your behalf
from the bottom of my heart. Yet you are still hemmed round by dangers
many and great. What now, Olaf? Will you become a ghost also and dwell
here in the tomb with Heliodore; and if so, what tale shall I tell to
Palka and the rest?"

"Not so," I answered. "I think it will be best that we should return
to Kurna. Heliodore must play her part as the spirit of a queen till
we can hire some boat and escape with her down the Nile."

"Never," she cried, "I cannot, I cannot. Having come together we must
separate no more. Oh! Olaf, you do not know what a life has been mine
during all these dreadful months. When I escaped from Musa by stabbing
the eunuch who was in charge of me, for which hideous deed may I be
forgiven," and I felt her shudder at my side, "I fled I knew not
whither till I found myself in this valley, where I hid till the night
was gone. Then at daybreak I peeped out from the mouth of the valley
and saw the Moslems searching for me, but as yet a long way off. Also
now I knew this valley. It was that to which my father had brought me
as a child when he came to search for the burying-place of his
ancestor, the Pharaoh, which records he had read told him was here. I
remembered everything: where the tomb should be, how we had entered it
through a hole, how we had found the mummy of a royal lady, whose face
was covered with a gilded mask, and on her breast the necklace which I
wear.

"I ran along the valley, searching the left side of it with my eyes,
till I saw a flat stone which I knew again. It was called the Table of
Offerings. I was sure that the hole by which we had entered the tomb
was quite near to this stone and a little above it, in the face of the
cliff. I climbed; I found what seemed to be the hole, though of this I
could not be certain. I crept down it till it came to an end, and
then, in my terror, hung by my hands and dropped into the darkness,
not knowing whither I fell, or caring over much if I were killed. As
it chanced it was but a little way, and, finding myself unhurt, I
crawled along the cavern till I reached this place where there is
light, for here the roof of the cave has fallen in. While I crouched
amid the rocks I heard the voices of the soldiers above me, heard
their officer also bidding them bring ropes and torches. To the left
of where you stand there is a sloping passage that runs down to the
great central chamber where sleeps some mighty king, and out of this
passage open other chambers. Into the first of these the light of the
morning sun struggles feebly. I entered it, seeking somewhere to hide
myself, and saw a painted coffin lying on the floor near to the marble
sarcophagus from which it had been dragged. It was that in which we
had found the body of my ancestress; but since then thieves had been
in this place. We had left the coffin in the sarcophagus and the mummy
in the coffin, and replaced their lids. Now the mummy lay on the
floor, half unwrapped and broken in two beneath the breast. Moreover,
the face, which I remembered as being so like my own, was gone to
dust, so that there remained of it nothing but a skull, to which hung
tresses of long black hair, as, indeed, you may see for yourself.

"By the side of the body was the gilded mask, with black and staring
eyes, and the painted breast-piece of stiff linen, neither of which
the thieves had found worth stealing.

"I looked and a thought came to me. Lifting the mummy, I thrust it
into the sarcophagus, all of it save the gilded mask and the painted
breast-piece of stiff linen. Then I laid myself down in the coffin, of
which the lid, still lying crosswise, hid me to the waist, and drew
the gilded mask and painted breast-piece over my head and bosom.
Scarcely was it done when the soldiers entered. By now the reflected
sunlight had faded from the place, leaving it in deep shadow; but some
of the men held burning torches made from splinters of old coffins,
that were full of pitch.

"'Feet have passed here; I saw the marks of them in the dust,' said
the officer. 'She may have hidden in this place. Search! Search! It
will go hard with us if we return to Musa to tell him that he has lost
his toy.'

"They looked into the sarcophagus and saw the broken mummy. Indeed,
one of them lifted it, unwillingly enough, and let it fall again,
saying grimly,

"'Musa would scarce care for this companion, though in her day she may
have been fair enough.'

"Then they came to the coffin.

"'Here's another,' exclaimed the soldier, 'and one with a gold face.
Allah! how its eyes stare.'

"'Pull it out,' said the officer.

"'Let that be your task,' answered the man. 'I'll defile myself with
no more corpses.'

"The officer came and looked. 'What a haunted hole is this, full of
the ghosts of idol worshippers, or so I think,' he said. 'Those eyes
stare curses at us. Well, the Christian maid is not here. On, before
the torches fail.'

"Then they went, leaving me; the painted linen creaked upon my breast
as I breathed again.

"'Till nightfall I lay in that coffin, fearing lest they should
return; and I tell you, Olaf, that strange dreams came to me there,
for I think I swooned or slept in that narrow bed. Yes, dreams of the
past, which you shall hear one day, if we live, for they seem to have
to do with you and me. Aye, I thought that the dead woman in the
sarcophagus at my side awoke and told them to me. At length I rose and
crept back to this place where we stand, for here I could see the
friendly light, and being outworn, laid me down and slept.

"At the first break of day I crawled from the tomb, followed that same
road by which I had entered, though I found it hard to climb up
through the entrance hole.

"No living thing was to be seen in the valley, except a great night
bird flitting to its haunt. I was parched with thirst, and knowing
that in this dry place I soon must perish, I glided from rock to rock
towards the mouth of the valley, thinking to find some other grave or
cranny where I might lie hid till night came again and I could descend
to the plain and drink. But, Olaf, before I had gone many steps I
discovered fresh food, milk and water laid upon a rock, and though I
feared lest they might be poisoned, ate and drank of them. When I knew
that they were wholesome I thought that some friend must have set them
there to satisfy my wants, though I knew not who the friend could be.
Afterwards I learned that this food was an offering to the ghosts of
the dead. Among our forefathers in forgotten generations it was, I
know, the custom to make such offerings, since in their blindness they
believed that the spirts of their beloved needed sustenance as their
bodies once had done. Doubtless the memory of the rite still survives;
at least, to this day the offerings are made. Indeed, when it was
found that they were not made in vain, more and more of them were
brought, so that I have lacked nothing.

"Here then I have dwelt for many moons among the dust of men departed,
only now and again wandering out at night. Once or twice folk have
seen me when I ventured to the plains, and I have been tempted to
speak to them and ask their help. But always they fled away, believing
me to be the ghost of some bygone queen. Indeed, to speak truth, Olaf,
this companionship with spirits, for spirits do dwell in these tombs--
I have seen them, I tell you I have seen them--has so worked upon my
soul that at times I feel as though I were already of their company.
Moreover, I knew that I could not live long. The loneliness was
sucking up my life as the dry sand sucks water. Had you not come,
Olaf, within some few days or weeks I should have died."

Now I spoke for the first time, saying,

"And did you wish to die, Heliodore?"

"No. Before the war between Musa and my father, Magas, news came to us
from Byzantium that Irene had killed you. All believed it save I, who
did not believe."

"Why not, Heliodore?"

"Because I could not feel that you were dead. Therefore I fought for
my life, who otherwise, after we were conquered and ruined and my
father was slain fighting nobly, should have stabbed, not that eunuch,
but myself. Then later, in this tomb, I came to know that you were not
dead. The other lost ones I could feel about me from time to time, but
you never, you who would have been the first to seek me when my soul
was open to such whisperings. So I lived on when all else would have
died, because hope burned in me like a lamp unquenchable. And at last
you came! Oh! at last you came!"



                              CHAPTER IV

                           THE CALIPH HARUN

Here there is an absolute blank in my story. One of those walls of
oblivion of which I have spoken seems to be built across its path. It
is as though a stream had plunged suddenly from some bright valley
into the bosom of a mountain side and there vanished from the ken of
man. What happened in the tomb after Heliodore had ended her tale;
whether we departed thence together or left her there a while; how we
escaped from Kurna, and by what good fortune or artifice we came
safely to Alexandria, I know not. As to all these matters my vision
fails me utterly. So far as I am concerned, they are buried beneath
the dust of time. I know as little of them as I know of where and how
I slept between my life as Olaf and this present life of mine; that
is, nothing at all. Yet in this way or in that the stream did win
through the mountain, since beyond all grows clear again.

Once more I stood upon the deck of the /Diana/ in the harbour of
Alexandria. With me were Martina and Heliodore. Heliodore's face was
stained and she was dressed as a boy, such a harlequin lad as singers
and mountebanks often take in their company. The ship was ready to
start and the wind served. Yet we could not sail because of the lack
of some permission. A Moslem galley patrolled the harbour and
threatened to sink us if we dared to weigh without this paper. The
mate had gone ashore with a bribe. We waited and waited. At length the
captain, Menas, who stood by me, whispered into my ear,

"Be calm; he comes; all is well."

Then I heard the mate shout: "I have the writing under seal," and
Menas gave the order to cast off the ropes that held the ship to the
quay. One of the sailors came up and reported to Menas that their
companion, Cosmas, was missing. It seemed that he had slipped ashore
without leave and had not returned.

"There let him bide," said Menas, with an oath. "Doubtless the hog
lies drunk in some den. When he awakes he may tell what tale he
pleases and find his own way back to Lesbos. Cast off, cast off! I
say."

At this moment that same Cosmas appeared. I could not see him, but I
could hear him plainly enough. Evidently he had become involved in
some brawl, for an angry woman and others were demanding money of him
and he was shouting back drunken threats. A man struck him and the
woman got him by the beard. Then his reason left him altogether.

"Am I, a Christian, to be treated thus by you heathen dogs?" he
screamed. "Oh, you think I am dirt beneath your feet. I have friends,
I tell you I have friends. You know not whom I serve. I say that I am
a soldier of Olaf the Northman, Olaf the Blind, Olaf Red-Sword, he who
made you prophet-worshippers sing so small at Mitylene, as he will do
again ere long."

"Indeed, friend," said a quiet voice. It was that of the Moslem
captain, Yusuf, he who befriended us when we arrived at Alexandria,
who had been watching all this scene. "Then you serve a great general,
as some of us have cause to know. Tell me, where is he now, for I hear
that he has left Lesbos?"

"Where is he? Why, aboard yonder ship, of course. Oh! he has fooled
you finely. Another time you'll search beggar's rags more closely."

"Cast off! Cast off!" roared Menas.

"Nay," said the officer, "cast not off. Soldiers, drive away those
men. I must have words with the captain of this ship. Come, bring that
drunken fellow with you."

"Now all is finished," I said.

"Yes," answered Heliodore, "all is finished. After we have endured so
much it is hard. Well, at least death remains to us."

"Hold your hand," exclaimed Martina. "God still lives and can save us
yet."

Black bitterness took hold of me. In some few days I had hoped to
reach Lesbos, and there be wed to Heliodore. And now! And now!

"Cut the ropes, Menas," I cried, "and out with the oars. We'll risk
the galley. You, Martina, set me at the mouth of the gangway and tell
me when to strike. Though I be blind I may yet hold them back till we
clear the quay."

She obeyed, and I drew the red sword from beneath my rags. Then,
amidst the confusion which followed, I heard the grave voice of Yusuf
speaking to me.

"Sir," he said, "for your own sake I pray you put up that sword, which
we think is one whereof tales have been told. To fight is useless, for
I have bowmen who can shoot you down and spears that can outreach you.
General Olaf, a brave man should know when to surrender, especially if
he be blind."

"Aye, sir," I answered, "and a brave man should know when to die."

"Why should you die, General?" went on the voice. "I do not know that
for a Christian to visit Egypt disguised as a beggar will be held a
crime worthy of death, unless indeed you came hither to spy out the
land."

"Can the blind spy?" asked Martina indignantly.

"Who can say, Lady? But certainly it seems that /your/ eyes are bright
and quick enough. Also there is another matter. A while ago, when this
ship came to Alexandria, I signed a paper giving leave to a certain
eyeless musician and his niece to ply their trade in Egypt. Then there
were two of you; now I behold a third. Who is that comely lad with a
stained face that stands beside you?"

Heliodore began some story, saying that she was the orphan son of I
forget whom, and while she told it certain of the Moslems slipped past
me.

"Truly you should do well in the singing trade," interrupted the
officer with a laugh, "seeing that for a boy your voice is wondrous
sweet. Are you quite sure that you remember your sex aright? Well, it
can easily be proved. Bare that lad's bosom, soldiers. Nay, 'tis
needless; snatch off that head-dress."

A man obeyed, and Heliodore's beautiful black hair, which I would not
suffer her to cut, fell tumbling to her knees.

"Let me be," she said. "I admit that I am a woman."

"That is generous of you, Lady," the officer answered in the midst of
the laughter which followed. "Now will you add to your goodness by
telling me your name? You refuse? Then shall I help you? In the late
Coptic war it was my happy fortune twice to see a certain noble
maiden, the daughter of Magas the Prince, whom the Emir Musa
afterwards took for himself, but who fled from him. Tell me, Lady,
have you a twin sister?"

"Cease your mockings, sir," said Heliodore despairingly. "I am she you
seek."

"'Tis Musa seeks you, not I, Lady."

"Then, sir, he seeks in vain, for know that ere he finds I die. Oh!
sir, I know you have a noble heart; be pitiful and let us go. I'll
tell you all the truth. Olaf Red-Sword yonder and I have long been
affianced. Blind though he is, he sought me through great dangers,
aye, and found me. Would you part us at the last? In the name of the
God we both worship, and of your mother, I pray you let us go."

"By the Prophet, that I would do, Lady, only then I fear me that I
should let my head go from its shoulders also. There are too many in
this secret for it to bide there long if I did as you desire. Nay, you
must to the Emir, all three of you--not Musa, but to his rival,
Obaidallah, who loves him little, and by the decree of the Caliph once
again rules Egypt. Be sure that in a matter between you and Musa you
will meet with justice from Obaidallah. Come now, fearing nothing, to
where we may find you all garments more befitting to your station than
those mummer's robes."

So a guard was formed round us, and we went. As my feet touched the
quay I heard a sound of angry voices, followed by groans and a splash
in the water.

"What is that?" I asked of Yusuf.

"I think, General, that your servants from the /Diana/ have settled
some account that they had with the drunken dog who was so good as to
bark out your name to me. But, with your leave, I will not look to
make sure."

"God pardon him! As yet I cannot," I muttered, and marched on.



We stood, whether on that day or another I do not know, in some hall
of judgment. Martina whispered to me that a small, dark man was seated
in the chair of state, and about him priests and others. This was the
Emir Obaidallah. Musa, that had been Emir, who, she said, was fat and
sullen, was there also, and whenever his glance fell upon Heliodore I
felt her shiver at my side. So was the Patriarch Politian who pleaded
our cause. The case was long, so long that, being courteous as ever,
they gave us cushions to sit on, also, in an interval, food and
sherbet.

Musa claimed Heliodore as his slave. An officer who prosecuted claimed
that Allah having given me, their enemy and a well-known general who
had done them much damage, into their hands, I should be put to death.
Politian answered on behalf of all of us, saying that we had harmed no
man. He added that as there was a truce between the Christians and the
Moslems, I could not be made to suffer the penalties of war in a time
of peace, who had come to Egypt but to seek a maid to whom I was
affianced. Moreover, that even if it were so, the murder of prisoners
was not one of those penalties.

The Emir listened to all but said little. At length, however, he asked
whether we were willing to become Moslems, since if so he thought that
we might go free. We answered that we were not willing.

"Then it would seem," he said, "that the lady Heliodore, having been
taken in war, must be treated as a prisoner of war, the only question
being to whom she belongs."

Now Musa interrupted angrily, shouting out that as to this there was
no doubt, since she belonged to him, who had captured her during his
tenure of office.

The Emir thought a while, and we waited trembling. At last he gave
judgment, saying:

"The General Olaf the Blind, who in Byzantium was known as Olaf Red-
Sword or as Michael, and who while in the service of the Empress Irene
often made war against the followers of the Prophet, but who
afterwards lost his eyes at the hands of this same evil woman, is a
man of whom all the world has heard. Particularly have we Moslems
heard of him, seeing that as governor of Lesbos in recent days he
inflicted a great defeat upon our navy, slaying many thousands and
taking others prisoner. But as it chances God, Who bides His time to
work justice, set a bait for him in the shape of a fair woman. On this
bait he has been hooked, notwithstanding all his skill and cunning,
and delivered into our hands, having come into Egypt disguised as a
beggar in order to seek out that woman. Still, as he is so famous a
man, and as at present there is a truce between us and the Empire of
the East, which truce raises certain doubtful points of high policy, I
decree that his case be remitted to the Caliph Harun-al-Rashid, my
master, and that he be conveyed to Baghdad there to await judgment.
With him will go the woman whom he alleges to be his niece, but who,
as we are informed, was one of the waiting-ladies of the Empress
Irene. Against her there is nothing to be said save that she may be a
Byzantine spy.

"Now I come to the matter of the lady Heliodore, who is reported to be
the wife or the lover or the affianced of this General Olaf, a
question of which God alone knows the truth. This lady Heliodore is a
person of high descent and ancient race. She is the only child of the
late Prince Magas, who claimed to have the blood of the old Pharaohs
in his veins, and who within this year was defeated and slain by my
predecessor in office, the Emir Musa. The said Emir, having captured
the lady Heliodore, purposed to place her in his harem, as he had a
right to do, seeing that she refused the blessings of the Faith. As it
chanced, however, she escaped from him, as it is told by stabbing the
eunuch in charge of her. At least it is certain that this eunuch was
found dead, though by whom he was killed is /not/ certain. Now that
she has been taken again, the lord Musa claims the woman as his spoil
and demands that I should hand her over to him. Yet it seems to me
that if she is the spoil of anyone, she belongs to the Emir governing
Egypt at the date of her recapture. It was only by virtue of his
office as Emir, and not by gift, purchase, or marriage contract, that
the lord Musa came into possession of her, which possession was voided
by her flight before she was added to his household and he acquired
any natural rights over her in accordance with our law. Now for my
part, I, as Emir, make no claim to this woman, holding it a hateful
thing before God to force one into my household who has no wish to
dwell there, especially when I know her to be married or affianced to
another man. Still, as here also are involved high questions of law, I
command that the lady Heliodore, daughter of the late Prince Magas,
shall also be conveyed with all courtesy and honour to the Caliph
Harun at Baghdad, there to abide his judgment of her case. The matter
is finished. Let the officers concerned carry out my decree and answer
for the safety of these prisoners with their lives."

"The matter is not finished," shouted the ex-Emir Musa. "You,
Obaidallah, have uttered this false judgment because your heart is
black towards me whom you have displaced."

"Then appeal against it," said Obaidallah, "but know that if you
attempt to lay hands upon this lady, my orders are that you be cut
down as an enemy to the law. Patriarch of the Christians, you sail for
Baghdad to visit the Caliph at his request in a ship that he has sent
for you. Into your hands I give these prisoners under guard, knowing
that you will deal well with them, who are of your false faith. To you
also who have the Caliph's ear, Allah knows why, I will entrust
letters making true report of all this matter. Let proper provision be
made for the comfort of the General Olaf and of those with him. Musa,
may your greetings at the Court of Baghdad be such as you deserve;
meanwhile cease to trouble me."

At the door of that hall I was separated from Heliodore and Martina
and led to some house or prison, where I was given a large room with
servants to wait upon me. Here I slept that night, and on the morrow
asked when we sailed for Beirut on our way to Baghdad. The chief of
the servants answered that he did not know. During that day I was
visited by Yusuf, the officer who had captured us on board the
/Diana/. He also told me that he did not know when we sailed, but
certainly it would not be for some days. Further, he said that I need
have no fear for the lady Heliodore and Martina, as they were well
treated in some other place. Then he led me into a great garden, where
he said I was at liberty to walk whenever I pleased.

Thus began perhaps the most dreadful time of waiting and suspense in
all this life of mine, seeing that it was the longest. Every few days
the officer Yusuf would visit me and talk of many matters, for we
became friends. Only of Heliodore and Martina he could or would tell
me nothing, nor of when we were to set out on our journey to Baghdad.
I asked to be allowed to speak with the Patriarch Politian, but he
answered that this was impossible, as he had been called away from
Alexandria for a little while. Nor could I have audience with the Emir
Obaidallah, for he too had been called away.

Now my heart was filled with terrors, for I feared lest in this way or
in that Heliodore had fallen into the hands of the accursed Musa. I
prayed Yusuf to tell me the truth of the matter, whereon he swore by
the Prophet that she was safe, but would say no more. Nor did this
comfort me much, since for aught I knew he might mean she was safe in
death. I was aware, further, that the Moslems held it no crime to
deceive an infidel. Week was added to week, and still I languished in
this rich prison. The best of garments and food were brought to me; I
was even given wine. Kind hands tended me and led me from place to
place. I lacked nothing except freedom and the truth. Doubt and fear
preyed upon my heart till at length I fell ill and scarcely cared to
walk in the garden. One day when Yusuf visited me I told him that he
would not need to come many more times, since I felt that I was going
to die.

"Do not die," he answered, "since then perchance you will find you
have done so in vain," and he left me.

On the following evening he returned and told me that he had brought a
physician to see me, a certain Mahommed, who was standing before me.
Although I had no hope from any physician, I prayed this Mahommed to
be seated, whereon Yusuf left us, closing the door behind him.

"Be pleased to set out your case, General Olaf," said Mahommed in a
grave, quiet voice, "for know that I am sent by the Caliph himself to
minister to you."

"How can that be, seeing that he is in Baghdad?" I answered. Still, I
told him my ailments.

When I had finished he said:

"I perceive that you suffer more from your mind than from your body.
Be so good, now, as to repeat to me the tale of your life, of which I
have already heard something. Tell me especially of those parts of it
which have to do with the lady Heliodore, daughter of Magas, of your
blinding by Irene for her sake, and of your discovery of her in Egypt,
where you sought her disguised as a beggar."

"Why should I tell you all my story, sir?"

"That I may know how to heal you of your sickness. Also, General Olaf,
I will be frank with you. I am more than a mere physician; I have
certain powers under the Caliph's seal, and it will be wise on your
part to open all your heart to me."

Now I reflected that there could be little harm in repeating to this
strange doctor what so many already knew. So I told him everything,
and the tale was long.

"Wondrous! Most wondrous!" said the grave-voiced physician when I had
finished. "Yet to me the strangest part of your history is that played
therein by the lady Martina. Had she been your lover, now, one might
have understood--perhaps," and he paused.

"Sir Physician," I answered, "the lady Martina has been and is no more
than my friend."

"Ah! Now I see new virtues in your religion, since we Moslems do not
find such friends among those women who are neither our mothers nor
our sisters. Evidently the Christian faith must have power to change
the nature of women, which I thought to be impossible. Well, General
Olaf, I will consider of your case, and I may tell you that I have
good hopes of finding a medicine by which it can be cured, all save
your sight, which in this world God Himself cannot give back to you.
Now I have a favour to ask. I see that in this room of yours there is
a curtain hiding the bed of the servant who sleeps with you. I desire
to see another patient here, and that this patient should not see you.
Of your goodness will you sit upon the bed behind that curtain, and
will you swear to me on your honour as a soldier that whatever you may
hear you will in no way reveal yourself?"

"Surely, that is if it is nothing which will bring disgrace upon my
head or name."

"It will be nothing to bring disgrace on your head or name, General
Olaf, though perhaps it may bring some sorrow to your heart. As yet I
cannot say."

"My heart is too full of sorrow to hold more," I answered.

Then he led me down to the guard's bed, on which I sat myself down,
being strangely interested in this play. He drew the curtain in front
of me, and I heard him return to the centre of the room and clap his
hands. Someone entered, saying,

"High Lord, your will?"

"Silence!" he exclaimed, and began to whisper orders, while I wondered
what kind of a physician this might be who was addressed as "High
Lord."

The servant went, and, after a while of waiting that seemed long, once
more the door was opened, and I heard the sweep of a woman's dress
upon the carpet.

"Be seated, Lady," said the grave voice of the physician, "for I have
words to say to you."

"Sir, I obey," answered another voice, at the sound of which my heart
stood still. It was that of Heliodore.

"Lady," went on the physician, "as my robe will tell you, I am a
doctor of medicine. Also, as it chances, I am something more, namely,
an envoy appointed by the Caliph Harun-al-Rashid, having full powers
to deal with your case. Here are my credentials if you care to read
them," and I heard a crackling as of parchment being unfolded.

"Sir," answered Heliodore, "I will read the letters later. For the
present I accept your word. Only I would ask one question, if it
pleases you to answer. Why have not I and the General Olaf been
conveyed to the presence of the Caliph himself, as was commanded by
the Emir Obaidallah?"

"Lady, because it was not convenient to the Caliph to receive you,
since as it chances at present he is moving from place to place upon
the business of the State. Therefore, as you will find in the writing,
he has appointed me to deal with your matter. Now, Lady, the Caliph
and I his servant know all your story from lips which even you would
trust. You are betrothed to a certain enemy of his, a Northman named
Olaf Red-Sword or Michael, who was blinded by the Empress Irene for
some offence against her, but was afterwards appointed by her son
Constantine to be governor of the Isle of Lesbos. This Olaf, by the
will of God, inflicted a heavy defeat upon the forces of the Caliph
which he had sent to take Lesbos. Then, by the goodness of God, he
wandered to Egypt in search of you, with the result that both of you
were taken prisoner. Lady, it will be clear to you that, having this
wild hawk Olaf in his hands, the Caliph would scarcely let him go
again to prey upon the Moslems, though whether he will kill him or
make of him a slave as yet I do not know. Nay, hear me out before you
speak. The Caliph has been told of your wondrous beauty, and as I see
even less than the truth. Also he has heard of the high spirit which
you showed in the Coptic rising, when your father, the Prince Magas,
was slain, and of how you escaped out of the hand of the Emir Musa the
Fat, and were not afraid to dwell for months alone in the tombs of the
ancient dead. Now the Caliph, being moved in his heart by your sad
plight and all that he has heard concerning you, commands me to make
you an offer.

"The offer is that you should come to his Court, and there be
instructed for a while by his learned men in the truths of religion.
Then, if it pleases you to adopt Islam, he will take you as one of his
wives, and if it does not please you, will add you to his harem, since
it is not lawful for him to marry a woman who remains a Christian. In
either case he will make on you a settlement of property to the value
of that which belonged to your father, the Prince Magas. Reflect well
before you answer. Your choice lies between the memory of a blind man,
whom I think you will never see again, and the high place of one of
the wives of the greatest sovereign of the earth."

"Sir, before I answer I would put a question to you. Why do you say
'the memory of a blind man'?"

"Because, Lady, a rumour has reached me which I desired to hold back
from you, but which now you force me to repeat. It is that this
General Olaf has in truth already passed the gate of death."

"Then, sir," she answered, with a little sob, "it behoves me to follow
him through that gate."

"That will happen when it pleases God. Meanwhile, what is your
answer?"

"Sir, my answer is that I, a poor Christian prisoner, a victim of war
and fate, thank the Caliph Harun-al-Rashid for the honours and the
benefits he would shower on me, and with humility decline them."

"So be it, Lady. The Caliph is not a man who would wish to force your
inclination. Still, this being so, I am charged to say he bids you
remember that you were taken prisoner in war by the Emir Musa. He
holds that, subject to his own prior right, which he waives, you are
the property of the Emir Musa under a just interpretation of the law.
Yet he would be merciful as God is merciful, and therefore he gives
you the choice of three things. The first of these is that you adopt
Islam with a faithful heart and go free."

"That I refuse, as I have refused it before," said Heliodore.

"The second is," he continued, "that you enter the harem of the Emir
Musa."

"That I refuse also."

"And the third and last is that, having thrust aside his mercy, you
suffer the common fate of a captured Christian who persists in error,
and die."

"That I accept," said Heliodore.

"You accept death. In the splendour of your youth and beauty, you
accept death," he said, with a note of wonder in his voice. "Truly,
you are great-hearted, and the Caliph will grieve when he learns his
loss, as I do now. Yet I have my orders, for which my head must
answer. Lady, if you die, it must be here and now. Do you still choose
death?"

"Yes," she said in a low voice.

"Behold this cup," he went on, "and this draught which I pour into
it," and I heard the sound of liquid flowing. "Presently I shall ask
you to drink of it, and then, after a little while, say the half of an
hour, you will fall asleep, to wake in whatever world God has
appointed to the idol worshippers of the Cross. You will suffer no
pain and no fear; indeed, maybe the draught will bring you joy."

"Then give it me," said Heliodore faintly. "I will drink at once and
have done."

Then it was that I came out from behind my curtain and groped my way
towards them.

"Sir Physician, or Sir Envoy of the Caliph Harun," I said; but for the
moment went no further, since, with a low cry, Heliodore cast herself
upon my breast and stopped my lips with hers.

"Hush till I have spoken," I whispered, placing my arm about her; then
continued. "I swore to you just now that I would not reveal myself
unless I heard aught which would bring disgrace on my head or name. To
stand still behind yonder curtain while my betrothed is poisoned at
your hands would bring disgrace upon my head and name so black that
not all the seas of all the world could wash it away. Say, Physician,
does yonder cup hold enough of death for both of us?"

"Yes, General Olaf, and if you choose to share it I think the Caliph
will be glad, since he loves not the killing of brave men. Only it
must be now and without more words. You can talk for a little
afterwards before the sleep takes you."

"So be it," I said. "Since I must die, as I heard you decree but now,
it is no crime to die thus, or at least I'll risk it who have one to
guard upon that road. Drink, beloved, a little less than half since I
am the stronger. Then give me the cup."

"Husband, I pledge you," she said, and drank, thrusting the cup into
my hand.

I, too, lifted it to my lips. Lo! it was empty.

"Oh! most cruel of thieves," I cried, "you have stolen all."

"Aye," she answered. "Shall I see you swallow poison before my eyes? I
die, but perchance God may save you yet."

"Not so, Heliodore," I cried again, and, turning, began to grope my
way to the window-place, which I knew was far from the ground, since I
had no weapon that would serve my turn.

In an instant, as I thrust the lattice open, I felt two strong arms
cast about me and heard the physician exclaim,

"Come, Lady, help me with this madman, lest he do himself a mischief."

She seized me also, and we struggled together all three of us. The
doors burst open, and I was dragged back into the centre of the room.

"Olaf Red-Sword, the blind General of the Christians," said the
physician in a new voice, one that was full of majesty and command, "I
who speak to you am no doctor of medicine and no envoy. I am Harun-al-
Rashid, Caliph of the Faithful. Is it not so, my servants?"

"It is so, Caliph," pealed the answer from many throats.

"Hearken, then, to the decree of Harun-al-Rashid. Learn both of you
that all which has passed between us was but a play that I have played
to test the love and faithfulness of you twain. Lady Heliodore, be at
ease. You have drunk nothing save water distilled with roses, and no
sleep shall fall on you save that which Nature brings to happiness.
Lady, I tell you that, having seen what I have seen and heard what I
have heard, rather would I stand in the place of that blind man
to-night than be Sovereign of the East. Truly, I knew not that love
such as yours was to be met with in the world. I say that when I saw
you drain the cup in a last poor struggle to drive back the death that
threatened this Olaf my own heart went out in love for you. Yet have
no fear, since my love is of a kind that would not rob you of your
love, but rather would bring it to a rich and glorious blossom in the
sunshine of my favour. Wondrous is the tale of the wooing of you twain
and happy shall be its end. General Olaf, you conquered me in war and
dealt with those of my servants who fell into your hands according to
the nobleness of your heart. Shall I, then, be outdone in generosity
by one whom a while ago I should have named a Christian dog? Not so!
Let the high priest of the Christians, Politian, be brought hither. He
stands without, and with him the lady named Martina, who was the
Empress Irene's waiting-woman."

The messengers went and there followed a silence. There are times when
the heart is too full for words; at least, Heliodore and I found
nothing to say to each other. We only clasped each other's hand and
waited.

At length the door opened, and I heard the eager, bustling step of
Politian, also another gliding step, which I knew for that of Martina.
She came to me, she kissed me on the brow, and whispered into my ear,

"So all is well at last, as I knew it would be; and now, Olaf--and
now, Olaf, you are about to be married. Yes, at once, and--I wish you
joy."

Her words were simple enough, yet they kindled in my heart a light by
which it saw many things.

"Martina," I said, "if I have lived to reach this hour, under God it
is through you. Martina, they say that each of us has a guardian angel
in heaven, and if that be so, mine has come to earth. Yet in heaven
alone shall I learn to thank her as I ought."

Then suddenly Martina was sobbing on my breast; after which I remember
only that Heliodore helped me to wipe away her tears, while in the
background I heard the Caliph say to himself in his deep voice,

"Wondrous! Wondrous! By Allah! these Christians are a strange folk.
How far wiser is our law, for then he could have married both of them,
and all three would have been happy. Truly he who decreed that it
should be so knew the heart of man and woman and was a prophet sent by
God. Nay, answer me not, friend Politian, since on matters of religion
we have agreed that we will never argue. Do your office according to
your unholy rites, and I and my servants will watch, praying that the
Evil One may be absent from the service. Oh! silence, silence! Have I
not said that we will not argue on subjects of religion? To your
business, man."

So Politian drew us together to the other end of the chamber, and
there wed us as best he might, with Martina for witness and the solemn
Moslems for congregation.

When it was over, Harun commanded my wife to lead me before him.

"Here is a marriage gift for you, General Olaf," he said; "one, I
think, that you will value more than any other," and he handed me
something sharp and heavy.

I felt it, hilt and blade, and knew it for the Wanderer's sword, yes,
my own red sword from which I took my name, that the Commander of the
Faithful now restored to me, and with it my place and freedom. I took
it, and, saying no word, with that same sword gave to him the triple
salute due to a sovereign.

Instantly I heard Harun's scimitar, the scimitar that was famous
throughout the East, rattle as it left its scabbard, as did the
scimitars of all those who attended on him, and knew that there was
being returned to me the salute which a sovereign gives to a general
in high command. Then the Caliph spoke again.

"A wedding gift to you, Lady Heliodore, child of an ancient and mighty
race, and new-made wife of a gallant man. For the second time to-night
take this cup of gold, but let that which lies within it adorn your
breast in memory of Harun. Queens of old have worn those jewels, but
never have they hung above a nobler heart."

Heliodore took the cup, and in her trembling hand I heard the
priceless gems that filled it clink against its sides. Once more the
Caliph spoke.

"A gift for you also, Lady Martina. Take this ring from my hand and
place it on your own. It seems a small thing, does it not? Yet
something lies within its circle. In this city I saw to-day a very
beauteous house built by one of your Grecian folk, and behind it lands
that a swift horse could scarcely circle twice within an hour, most
fruitful lands fed by the waters. That house and those lands are
yours, together with rule over all who dwell upon them. There you may
live content with whomever you may please, even if he be a Christian,
free of tax or tribute, provided only that neither you nor he shall
plot against my power. Now, to all three of you farewell, perchance
for ever, unless some of us should meet again in war. General Olaf,
your ship lies in the harbour; use it when you will. I pray that you
will think kindly of Harun-al-Rashid, as he does of you, Olaf Red-
Sword. Come, let us leave these two. Lady Martina, I pray you to be my
guest this night."

So they all went, leaving Heliodore and myself alone in the great
room, yes, alone at last and safe.



                              CHAPTER V

                            IRENE'S PRAYER

Years had gone by, I know not how many, but only that much had
happened in them. For a while Irene and young Constantine were joint
rulers of the Empire. Then they quarrelled again, and Constantine,
afraid of treachery, fled with his friends in a ship after an attempt
had been made to seize his person. He purposed to join his legions in
Asia, or so it was said, and make war upon his mother. But those
friends of his upon the ship were traitors, who, fearing Irene's
vengeance or perhaps his own, since she threatened to tell him all the
truth concerning them, seized Constantine and delivered him up to
Irene. She, the mother who bore him, caused him to be taken to the
purple Porphyry Chamber in the palace, that chamber in which, as the
first-born of an emperor, he saw the light, and there robbed him of
light for ever.

Yes, Stauracius and his butchers blinded Constantine as I had been
blinded. Only it was told that they drove their knives deeper so that
he died. But others say that he lived on, a prisoner, unknown,
unheeded, as those uncles of his whom /he/ had blinded and who once
were in my charge had lived, till in Greece the assassin's daggers
found their hearts. If so, oh! what a fate was his.

Afterwards for five years Irene reigned alone in glory, while
Stauracius, my god-father, and his brother eunuch, Aetius, strove
against each other to be first Minister of the Crown. Aetius won, and,
not content with all he had, plotted that his relative Nicetas, who
held the place of Captain of the Guard, which once I filled, should be
named successor to the throne. Then at last the nobles rebelled, and,
electing one of their number, Nicephorus, as emperor, seized Irene in
her private house of Eleutherius, where she lay sick, and crowned
Nicephorus in St. Sophia. Next day he visited Irene, when, fearing the
worst and broken by illness, she bought a promise of safety by
revealing to him all her hoarded treasure.

Thus fell Irene, the mighty Empress of the Eastern Empire!

Now during all these years Heliodore and I were left in peace at
Lesbos. I was not deposed from my governorship of that isle, which
prospered greatly under my rule. Even Irene's estates, which
Constantine had given me, were not taken away. At the appointed times
I remitted the tribute due, yes, and added to the sum, and received
back the official acknowledgment signed by the Empress, and with it
the official thanks. But with these never came either letter or
message. Yet it is evident she knew that I was married, for to
Heliodore did come a message, and with it a gift. The gift was that
necklace and those other ornaments which Irene had caused to be made
in an exact likeness of the string of golden shells separated by
emerald beetles, one half of which I had taken from the grave of the
Wanderer at Aar and the other half of which was worn by Heliodore.

So much of the gift. The message was that she who owned the necklace
might wish to have the rest of the set. To it were added the words
that a certain general had been wrong when he prophesied that the
wearing of this necklace by any woman save one would bring ill fortune
to the wearer, since from the day it hung about Irene's neck even that
which seemed to be bad fortune had turned to good. Thus she had
escaped "the most evil thing in the world, namely, another husband,"
and had become the first woman in the world.

These words, which were written on a piece of sheepskin, sealed up,
and addressed to the Lady Heliodore, but unsigned, I thought of the
most evil omen, since boastfulness always seems to be hateful to the
Power that decrees our fates. So, indeed, they proved to be.



On a certain day in early summer--it was the anniversary of my
marriage in Egypt--Heliodore and I had dined with but two guests.
Those guests were Jodd, the great Northman, my lieutenant, and his
wife, Martina, for within a year of our return to Lesbos Jodd and
Martina had married. It comes back to me that there was trouble about
the business, but that when Jodd gave out that either she must marry
him or that he would sail back to his northern land, bidding good-bye
to us all for ever, Martina gave way. I think that Heliodore managed
the matter in some fashion of her own after the birth of our first-
born son; how, I held it best never to inquire. At least, it was
managed, and the marriage turned out well enough in the end, although
at first Martina was moody at times and somewhat sharp of tongue with
Jodd. Then they had a baby which died, and this dead child drew them
closer together than it might have done had it lived. At any rate,
from that time forward Martina grew more gentle with Jodd, and when
other children were born they seemed happy together.

Well, we four had dined, and it comes to me that our talk turned upon
the Caliph Harun and his wonderful goodness to us, whom as Christians
he was bound to despise and hate. Heliodore told me then for the first
time how she was glad he had made it clear so soon that what she drank
from the gold cup which now stood upon our table was no more than rose
water.

So strong is the working of the mind that already she had begun to
feel as though poison were numbing her heart and clouding her brain,
and was sure that soon she would have fallen into the sleep which
Harun had warned her would end in death.

"Had he been a true physician, he would have known that this might be
so, and that such grim jests are very dangerous," I said. Then I
added, for I did not wish to dwell longer upon a scene the memory of
which was dreadful to me, although it had ended well,

"Tell us, Martina, is it true that those rich possessions of yours in
Alexandria which the Caliph gave you are sold?"

"Yes, Olaf," she answered, "to a company of Greek merchants, and not
so ill. The contract was signed but yesterday. It was my wish that we
should leave Lesbos and go to live in this place, as we might have
done with safety under Harun's signed /firman/, but Jodd here
refused."

"Aye," said Jodd in his big voice. "Am I one to dwell among Moslems
and make money out of trade and gardens in however fine a house? Why,
I should have been fighting with these prophet-worshippers within a
month, and had my throat cut. Moreover, how could I bear to be
separated from my general, and whatever she may think, how could
Martina bear to lose sight of her god-son? Why, Olaf, I tell you that,
although you are married and she is married, she still thinks twice as
much of you as she does of me. Oh! blind man's dog once, blind man's
dog always! Look not so angry, Martina. Why, I wonder, does the truth
always make women angry?" and he burst into one of his great laughs.

At this moment Heliodore rose from the table and walked to the open
window-place to speak to our children and Martina's, a merry company
who were playing together in the garden. Here she stood a while
studying the beautiful view of the bay beneath; then of a sudden
called out,

"A ship! A ship sailing into the harbour, and it flies the Imperial
standard."

"Then pray God she brings no bad news," I said, who feared that
Imperial standard and felt that we had all been somewhat too happy of
late. Moreover, I knew that no royal ship was looked for from
Byzantium at this time, and dreaded lest this one should bear letters
from the new Emperor dismissing me from my office, or even worse
tidings.

"What bad news should she bring?" growled Jodd. "Oh! I know what is in
your mind, General, but if this upstart Nicephorus is wise, he'll
leave you alone, since Lesbos does not want another governor, and will
tell him so if there be need. Yes, it will take more than one ship of
war, aye, and more than three, to set up another governor in Lesbos.
Nay, rebuke me not, General, for I at least have sworn no oath of
homage to this Nicephorus, nor have the other Northmen or the men of
Lesbos."

"You are like a watchdog, Jodd, barking at you know not what, just
because it is strange. Go now, I pray you, to the quay, and bring back
to us news of this ship."

So he went, and for the next two hours or more I sat in my private
room dictating letters to Heliodore on matters connected with the
duties of my office. The work came to an end at last, and I was
preparing to take my evening ride on a led mule when Martina entered
the room.

"Do you ride with us to-night, Martina?" I asked, recognising her
step.

"No, Olaf," she said quickly, "nor I think can you. Here are letters
for you from Byzantium. Jodd has brought them from the ship."

"Where is Jodd?" I said.

"Without, in the company of the captain of the ship, some guards, and
a prisoner."

"What prisoner?"

"Perchance the letters will tell you," she replied evasively. "Have I
your command to open and read? They are marked 'Most Secret.'"

I nodded, since Martina often acted as my secretary in high matters,
being from her training skilled in such things. So she broke the seals
and read to myself and to Heliodore, who also was present in the room,
as follows:

"'To the Excellent Michael, a General of our armies and Governor of
the Isle of Lesbos, Greetings from Nicephorus, by the will of God
Emperor.

"'Know, O Michael, that we, the Emperor, reposing especial faith in
you our trusted servant, with these letters deliver into your keeping
a certain prisoner of State. This prisoner is none other than Irene,
who aforetime was Empress.

"'Because of her many wickednesses in the sight of God and man we by
the decree of the People, of the Army, of the Senate and of the high
Officers of State amidst general rejoicing deposed the said Irene,
widow of the Emperor Leo and mother of the late Emperor Constantine,
and placed ourselves upon the throne. The said Irene, at her own
request, we consigned to the place called the Island of Princes,
setting her in charge of certain holy monks. Whilst there, abusing our
mercy and confidence, she set on foot plots to murder our Person and
repossess herself of the throne.

"'Now our Councillors with one voice urged that she should be put to
death in punishment of her crimes, but we, being mindful of the
teaching of our Lord and Saviour and of His saying that we should turn
the other cheek to those who smite us, out of our gentle pity have
taken another counsel.

"'Learn now, most excellent Michael the Blind, who once were known as
Olaf Red-Sword, that we hand over to your keeping the person of Irene,
aforetime Empress, charging you to deal with her as she dealt with you
and as she dealt also with the late Emperor Constantine, the son of
her body, for thus shall her evil plottings be brought to naught.'"

"By God's Name, he means that I must blind her!" I exclaimed.

Making no answer, Martina went on with the letter----

"'Should the said Irene survive her just punishment, we command you to
make sufficient provision for her daily wants, but no more, and to
charge the same against the sum due Us from the revenues of Lesbos.
Should she die at once, or at any future time, give to her decent
private burial, and report to Us the circumstances of her death duly
attested.

"'Keep these Presents secret and do not act upon them until the ship
which brings them and the prisoner to you has sailed for Byzantium,
which it is ordered to do as soon as it has been revictualled. On your
head be it to carry out these our commands, for which you shall answer
with your life and those of your wife and children. This signed and
sealed at our Court of Byzantium on the twelfth day of the sixth month
of the first year of our reign, and countersigned by the high officers
whose names appear beneath.'"



Such was this awful letter that, having read, Martina thrust into my
hand as though she would be rid of it. Then followed a silence, which
at length Martina broke.

"Your commands, Excellency," she said in a dry voice. "I understand
that the--the--prisoner is in the ante-room in charge of the Captain
Jodd."

"Then let her remain in the charge of the Captain Jodd," I exclaimed
angrily, "and in your charge, Martina, who are accustomed to attending
upon her, and know that you are both answerable for her safety with
your lives. Send the captain of the ship to me and prepare a discharge
for him. I will not see this woman till he has sailed, since until
then I am commanded to keep all secret. Send also the head officer of
the guard."



Three days went by. The Imperial ship had sailed, taking with her my
formal acknowledgment of the Emperor's letter, and the time had come
when once more I must meet Irene face to face.

I sat in the audience chamber of my Great House, and there was present
with me only Jodd, my lieutenant in office. Being blind, I dared not
receive a desperate woman alone, fearing lest she might stab me or do
herself some mischief. At the door of the chamber Jodd took her from
the guards, whom he bade remain within call, and conducted her to
where I sat. He told me afterwards that she was dressed as a nun, a
white hood half hiding her still beautiful face and a silver crucifix
hanging upon her breast.

As I heard her come I rose and bowed to her, and my first words to her
were to pray her to be seated.

"Nay," she answered in that rich, well-remembered voice of hers, "a
prisoner stands before the judge. I greet you, General Olaf, I pray
your pardon--Michael--after long years of separation. You have changed
but little, and I rejoice to see that your health is good and that the
rank and prosperity which I gave have not been taken from you."

"I greet you, Madam," (almost had I said Augusta), I answered, then
continued hurriedly: "Lady Irene, I have received certain commands
concerning you from the Emperor Nicephorus which it is best that you
should hear, so that you shall hold me quit of blame in aught that it
may be my duty to inflict upon you. Read them, Captain Jodd. Nay, I
forgot, you cannot. Give the copy of the letter to the Lady Irene; the
original she can see afterwards if she wills."

So the paper was given to her by Jodd, and she read it aloud, weighing
each word carefully.

"Oh, what a dog is this!" she said when it was finished. "Know, Olaf,
that of my free will I surrendered the throne to him, yes, and all my
private treasure, he swearing upon the Gospels that I should live in
peace and honour till my life's end. And now he sends me to you to be
blinded and then done to death, for that is what he means. Oh! may God
avenge me upon him! May he become a byword and a scorn, and may his
own end be even worse than that which he has prepared for me. May
shame wrap his memory as in a garment, may his bones be dishonoured
and his burying-place forgotten. Aye, and so it shall be."[*]

[*] The skull of this Nicephorus is said to have been used as a
    drinking cup by his victorious enemy, the King Krum.--Editor.

She paused in her fearful curse, then said in a new voice, that voice
in which she was wont to plead,

"You will not blind me, Olaf. You'll not take from me my last
blessing, the light of day. Think what it means----"

"The General Olaf should know well enough," interrupted Jodd, but I
waved him to be silent, and answered,

"Tell me, Madam, how can I do otherwise? It seems to me that my life
and that of my wife and children hang upon this deed. Moreover, why
should I do otherwise now that by God's justice the wheel has come
round at last?" I added, pointing to the hollows beneath my brows
where the eyes once had been.

"Oh! Olaf," she said, "if I harmed you, you know well it was because I
loved you."

"Then God send that no woman ever loves me in such a fashion," broke
in Jodd.

"Olaf," she continued, taking no note of him, "once you went very near
to loving me also, on that night when you would have eaten the
poisoned figs to save my son, the Emperor. At least, you kissed me. If
you forget, I cannot. Olaf, can you blind a woman whom you have
kissed?"

"Kissing takes two, and I know that you blinded him," muttered Jodd,
"for I crucified the brutes you commanded to do the deed to which they
confessed."

"Olaf, I admit that I treated you ill; I admit that I would have
killed you; but, believe me, it was jealousy and naught but jealousy
which drove me on. Almost as soon would I have killed myself; indeed,
I thought of it."

"And there the matter ended," said Jodd. "It was Olaf who walked the
Hall of the Pit, not you. We found him on the brink of the hole."

"Olaf, after I regained my power----"

"By blinding your own son," said Jodd, "for which you will have an
account to settle one day."

"----I dealt well with you. Knowing that you had married my rival, for
I kept myself informed of all you did, still I lifted no hand against
you----"

"What good was a maimed man to you when you were courting the Emperor
Charlemagne?" asked Jodd.

Now at last she turned on him, saying,

"Well is it for you, Barbarian, that if only for a while Fate has reft
power from my hands. Oh! this is the bitterest drop in all my cup,
that I who for a score of years ruled the world must live to suffer
the insults of such as you."

"Then why not die and have done?" asked the imperturbable Jodd. "Or,
if you lack the courage, why not submit to the decree of the Emperor,
as so many have submitted to your decree, instead of troubling the
general here with prayers for mercy? It would serve as well."

"Jodd," I said, "I command you to be silent. This lady is in trouble;
attack those in power, if you will, not those who have fallen."

"There speaks the man I loved," said Irene. "What perverse fate kept
us apart, Olaf? Had you taken what I offered, by now you and I would
have ruled the world."

"Perhaps, Madam; yet it is right I should say that I do not regret my
choice, although because of it I can no longer--look upon the world."

"I know, I know! She of that accursed necklace, which I see you still
wear, came between us and spoiled everything. Now I'm ruined for lack
of you and you are nobody for lack of me, a soldier who will run his
petty course and depart into the universal darkness, leaving never a
name behind him. In the ages to be what man will take count of one of
a score of governors of the little Isle of Lesbos, who might yet have
held the earth in the hollow of his hand and shone a second Csar in
its annals? Oh! what marplot of a devil rules our destinies? He who
fashioned those golden shells upon your breast, or so I think. Well,
well, it is so and cannot be altered. The Augusta of the Empire of the
East must plead with the man who rejected her, for sight, or rather
for her life. You understand, do you not, Olaf, that letter is a
command to you to murder me?"

"Just such a command as you gave to those who blinded your son
Constantine," muttered Jodd beneath his breath.

"That is what is meant. You are to murder me, and, Olaf, I'm not fit
to die. Great place brings great temptations, and I admit that I have
greatly sinned; I need time upon the earth to make my peace with
Heaven, and if you slay my body now, you will slay my soul as well.
Oh! be pitiful! Be pitiful! Olaf, you cannot kill the woman who has
lain upon your breast, it is against nature. If you did such a thing
you'd never sleep again; you would shudder yourself over the edge of
the world! Being what you are, no pomp or power would ever pay you for
the deed. Be true to your own high heart and spare me. See, I who for
so long was the ruler of many kingdoms, kneel to you and pray you to
spare me," and, casting herself down upon her knees, she laid her head
upon my feet and wept.

All that scene comes back to me with a strange and terrible vividness,
although I had no sight to aid me in its details, save the sight of my
soul. I remember that the wonder and horror of it pierced me through
and through; the stab of the dagger in my eyes was not more sharp.
There was I, Olaf, a mere gentleman of the North, seated in my chair
of office, and there before me, her mighty head bowed upon my feet,
knelt the Empress of the Earth pleading for her life. In truth all
history could show few stranger scenes. What was I to do? If I yielded
to her piteous prayers, it was probable that my own life and those of
my wife and children would pay the price. Yet how could I clap my
hands in their Eastern fashion and summon the executioners to pierce
those streaming eyes of hers? "Rise, Augusta," I said, for in this
extremity of her shame I gave her back her title, "and tell me, you
who are accustomed to such matters, how I can spare you who deal with
the lives of others as well as with my own?"

"I thank you for that name," she said as she struggled to her feet.
"I've heard it shouted by tens of thousands in the circus and from the
throats of armies, but never yet has it been half so sweet to me as
now from lips that have no need to utter it. In times bygone I'd have
paid you for this service with a province, but now Irene is so poor
that, like some humble beggar-woman, she can but give her thanks.
Still, repeat it no more, for next time it will sound bitter. What did
you ask? How you could save me, was it not? Well, the thing seems
simple. In all that letter from Nicephorus there is no direct command
that you should blind me. The fellow says that you are to treat me as
I treated you, and as I treated Constantine, the Emperor--because I
must. Well, I imprisoned both of you. Imprison me and you fulfil the
mandate. He says that if I die you are to report it, which shows that
he does not mean that I /must/ die. Oh! the road of escape is easy,
should you desire to travel it. If you do not so desire, then, Olaf, I
pray you as a last favour not to hand me over to common men. I see
that by your side still hangs that red sword of yours wherewith once I
threatened you when you refused me at Byzantium. Draw it, Olaf, and
this time I'll guide its edge across my throat. So you will please
Nicephorus and win the rewards that Irene can no longer give. Baptised
in her blood, what earthly glory is there to which you might not yet
attain, you who had dared to lay hands upon the anointed flesh that
even her worst foes have feared to touch lest God's sudden curse
should strike them dead?"

So she went on pouring out words with the strange eloquence that she
could command at times, till I grew bewildered. She who had lived in
light and luxury, who had loved the vision of all bright and glorious
things, was pleading for her sight to the man whom she had robbed of
sight that he might never more behold the young beauty of her rival.
She who had imagination to know the greatness of her sins was pleading
to be spared the death she dared not face. She was pleading to me, who
for years had been her faithful soldier, the captain of her own guard,
sworn to protect her from the slightest ill, me upon whom, for a
while, it had pleased her to lavish the wild passion of her imperial
heart, who once had almost loved--who, indeed, had kissed her on the
lips.

My orders were definite. I was commanded to blind this woman and to
kill her in the blinding, which, in truth, I who had power of life and
death, I who ruled over this island like a king by virtue of the royal
commission, could do without question asked. If I /failed/ to fulfil
those orders, I must be prepared to pay the price, as if I did fulfil
them I might expect a high reward, probably the governorship of some
great province of the Empire. This was no common prisoner. She was the
ex-Empress, a mighty woman to whom tens of thousands or perhaps
millions still looked for help and leadership. It was necessary to
those who had seized her place and power that she should be rendered
incapable of rule. It was desirable to them that she should die. Yet
so delicately were the scales poised between them and the adherents of
Irene, among whom were numbered all the great princes of the Church,
that they themselves did not dare to inflict mutilation or death upon
her. They feared lest it should be followed by a storm of wrath that
would shake Nicephorus from his throne and involve them in his ruin.

So they sent her to me, the governor of a distant dependency, the man
whom they knew she had wickedly wronged, being certain that her
tongue, which it was said could turn the hearts of all men, would
never soften mine. Then afterwards they would declare that the warrant
was a forgery, that I had but wreaked a private vengeance upon an
ancient foe, and, to still the scandal, degrade me from my
governorship--into some place of greater power and profit.

Oh! while Irene pleaded before me and, heedless of the presence of
Jodd, even cast her arms about me and laid her head upon my breast,
all these things passed through my mind. In its scales I weighed the
matter out, and the beam rose against me, for I knew well that if I
spared Irene I condemned myself and those who were more to me than
myself, my wife, my children, and all the Northmen who clung to me,
and who would not see me die without blow struck. I understood it all,
and, understanding, of a sudden made up my mind--to spare Irene. Come
what might, I would be no butcher; I would follow my heart
whithersoever it might lead me.

"Cease, Madam," I said. "I have decided. Jodd, bid the messenger
summon hither Heliodore and Martina, my wife and yours."

"Oh!" exclaimed Irene, "if these women are to be called in counsel on
my case all is finished, seeing that both of them love you and are my
enemies. Moreover, I have some pride left. To you I could plead, but
not to them, though they blind me with their bodkins after they have
stabbed me with their tongues. Excellency, a last boon! Call in your
guard and kill me."

"Madam, I said that I had decided, and all the women in the world will
not change my mind in this way or in that. Jodd, do my bidding."

Jodd struck a bell, once only, which was the signal for the messenger.
He came and received his orders. Then followed a pause, since
Heliodore and Martina were in a place close by and must be sent for.
During this time Irene began to talk to me of sundry general matters.
She compared the view that might be seen from this house in Lesbos to
that from the terrace of her palace on the Bosphorus, and described
its differences to me. She asked me as to the Caliph Harun-al-Rashid,
whom she understood I had seen, inquiring as to the estimate I had
formed of his character. Lastly, with a laugh, she dwelt upon the
strange vicissitudes of life.

"Look at me," she said. "I began my days as the daughter of a Greek
gentleman, with no dower save my wit and beauty. Then I rose to be a
ruler of the world, and knew all that it has to give of pomp and
power. Nations trembled at my nod; at my smile men grew great; at my
frown they faded into nothingness. Save you, Olaf, none ever really
conquered me, until I fell in the appointed hour. And now! Of this
splendour there is left but a nun's robe; of this countless wealth but
one silver crucifix; of this power--naught."

So she spoke on, still not knowing to what decision I had come;
whether she were to be blinded or to live or die. To myself I thought
it was a proof of her greatness that she could thus turn her mind to
such things while Fate hovered over her, its hand upon a sword. But it
may be that she thought thus to impress me and to enmesh me in
memories which would tie my hands, or even from the character of my
answers to draw some augury of her doom.

The women came at length. Heliodore entered first, and to her Irene
bowed.

"Greeting, Lady of Egypt," she said. "Ah! had you taken my counsel in
the past, that title might have been yours in very truth, and there
you and your husband could have founded a new line of kings
independent of the Empire which totters to its fall."

"I remember no such counsel, Madam," said Heliodore. "It seems to me
that the course I took was right and one pleasing to God, since it has
given me my husband for myself, although, it is true, wickedly robbed
of his eyes."

"For yourself! Can you say so while Martina is always at his side?"
she asked in a musing voice. "Well, it may be, for in this world
strange things happen."

She paused, and I heard both Heliodore and Jodd move as though in
anger, for her bitter shaft had gone home. Then she went on softly,

"Lady, may I tell you that, in my judgment, your beauty is even
greater than it was, though it is true it has grown from bud to
flower. Few bear their years and a mother's burdens so lightly in
these hot lands."

Heliodore did not answer, for at that moment Martina entered. Seeing
Irene for the first time, she forgot everything that had passed and
curtseyed to her in the old fashion, murmuring the familiar words,

"Thy servant greets thee, Augusta."

"Nay, use not that title, Martina, to one who has done with the world
and its vanities. Call me 'Mother' if you will, for that is the only
name of honour by which those of my religious order may be known. In
truth, as your mother in God, I welcome you and bless you, from my
heart forgiving you those ills which you have worked against me,
being, as I know well, driven by a love that is greater than any woman
bears to woman. But that eating fire of passion scorned is the
heritage of both of us, and of it we will talk afterwards. I must not
waste the time of the General Olaf, whom destiny, in return for many
griefs, has appointed to be my jailer. Oh! Olaf," she added with a
little laugh, "some foresight of the future must have taught me to
train you for the post. Let us then be silent, ladies, and listen to
the judgment which this jailer of mine is about to pass upon me. Do
you know it is no less than whether these eyes of mine, which you were
wont to praise, Martina, which in his lighter moments even this stern
Olaf was wont to praise, should be torn from beneath my brow, and if
so, whether it should be done in such a fashion that I die of the
deed? That and no less is the matter which his lips must settle. Now
speak, Excellency."

"Madam," I said slowly, "to the best of my wit I have considered the
letter sent to me under the seal and sign of the Emperor Nicephorus.
Although it might be so interpreted by some, I cannot find in that
letter any direct command that I should cause you to be blinded, but
only one that I should keep you under strict guard, giving you such
things as are necessary to your sustenance. This then I shall do, and
by the first ship make report of my action to the Emperor at
Byzantium."

Now, when she heard these words, at length the proud spirit of Irene
broke.

"God reward you, for I cannot, Olaf," she cried. "God reward you,
saint among men, who can pay back cruel injuries with the gentlest
mercy."

So saying, she burst into tears and fell senseless to the ground.

Martina ran to aid her, but Heliodore turned to me and said in her
tender voice,

"This is worthy of you, Olaf, and I would not have you do otherwise.
Yet, husband, I fear that this pity of yours has signed the death-
warrant of us all."



So it proved to be, though, as it chanced, that warrant was never
executed. I made my report to Byzantium, and in course of time the
answer came in a letter from the Emperor. This letter coldly approved
of my act in set and formal phrases. It added that the truth had been
conveyed publicly to those slanderers of the Emperor who announced
that he had caused Irene to be first blinded and then put to death in
Lesbos, whereby their evil tongues had been silenced.

Then came this pregnant sentence:

"We command you, with your wife and children and your lieutenant, the
Captain Jodd, with his wife and children, to lay down your offices and
report yourselves with all speed to Us at our Court of Byzantium, that
we may confer with you on certain matters. If it is not convenient to
you, or you can find no fitting ship in which to sail at once, know
that within a month of your receipt of this letter our fleet will call
at Lesbos and bring you and the others herein mentioned to our
Presence."

"That is a death sentence," said Martina, when she had finished
reading out this passage. "I have seen several such sent in my day,
when I was Irene's confidential lady. It is the common form. We shall
never reach Byzantium, Olaf, or, if we do, we shall never leave it
more."

I nodded, for I knew that this was so. Then, at some whispered word
from Martina, Heliodore spoke.

"Husband," she said, "foreseeing this issue, Martina, Jodd, and most
of the Northmen and I have made a plan which we now submit to you,
praying that for our sakes, if not for yours, you will not thrust it
aside. We have bought two good ships, armed them and furnished them
with all things needful. Moreover, during the past two months we have
sold much of our property, turning it into gold. This is our plan--
that we pretend to obey the order of the Emperor, but instead of
heading for Byzantium, sail away north to the land in which you were
born, where, having rank and possessions, you may still become a
mighty chief. If we go at once we shall miss the Imperial fleet, and I
think that none will follow us."

Now I bowed my head for a while and thought. Then I lifted it and
said,

"So let it be. No other road is open."

For my own sake I would not have stirred an inch. I would have gone to
the Court of the Emperor at Byzantium and there argued out the thing
in a gambler's spirit, prepared to win or prepared to lose. There at
least I should have had all the image-worshippers who adored Irene,
that is, the full half of the Empire, upon my side, and if I perished,
I should perish as a saint. But a wife and children are the most
terrible gifts of God, if the most blessed, for they turn our hearts
to water. So, for the first time in my life, I grew afraid, and, for
their sakes, fled.

As might be expected, having Martina's brains, Heliodore's love, and
the Northmen's loyalty at the back of it, our plan went well. A letter
was sent to the Emperor saying that we would await the arrival of the
fleet to obey his commands, having some private matters to arrange
before we left Lesbos. Then, on a certain evening, we embarked on two
great ships, about four hundred souls in all.

Before we went I bade farewell to Irene. She was seated outside the
house that had been given to her, employed in spinning, for it was her
fancy to earn the bread she ate by the labour of her hands. Round her
were playing Jodd's children and my own, whom, in order to escape
suspicion, we had sent thither till the time came for us to embark,
since the people of Lesbos only knew of our scheme by rumour.

"Whither do you go, Olaf?" she asked.

"Back to the North, whence I came, Madam," I answered, "to save the
lives of these," and I waved my hand towards the children. "If I bide
here all must die. We have been sent for to Byzantium, as I think
/you/ were wont to send for officers who had ceased to please you."

"I understand, Olaf; moreover, I know it is I who have brought this
trouble upon you because you spared me, whom it was meant that you
should kill. Also I know, through friends of mine, that henceforth,
for reasons of policy, my little end of life is safe, and perhaps with
it my sight. All this I owe to you, though now at times I regret that
I asked the boon. From the lot of an Empress to that of a spinning-
wife is a great change, and one which I find it heard to bear. Still,
I have my peace to make with God, and towards that peace I strive. Yet
will you not take me with you, Olaf? I should like to found a nunnery
in that cold North of yours."

"No, Augusta. I have done my best by you, and now you must guard
yourself. We part for ever. I go hence to finish where I began. My
birthplace calls me."

"For ever is a long word, Olaf. Are you sure that we part for ever?
Perchance we shall meet again in death or in other lives. Such, at
least, was the belief of some of the wisest of my people before we
became Christian, and mayhap the Christians do not know everything,
since the world had learnt much before they came. I hope that it may
be so, Olaf, for I owe you a great debt and would repay it to you full
measure, pressed down and running over. Farewell. Take with you the
blessing of a sinful and a broken heart," and, rising, she kissed me
on the brow.



Here ends the story of this life of mine as Olaf Red-Sword, since of
it I can recover no more. The darkness drops. Of what befell me and
the others after my parting with Irene I know nothing or very little.
Doubtless we sailed away north, and, I think, came safely to Aar,
since I have faint visions of Iduna the Fair grown old, but still
unwed, for the stain of Steinar's blood, as it were, still marked her
brow in all men's eyes; and even of Freydisa, white-haired and noble-
looking. How did we meet and how did we separate at last, I wonder?
And what were the fates of Heliodore and of our children; of Martina
and of Jodd? Also, was the prophecy of Odin, spoken through the lips
of Freydisa in the temple at Aar, that he and his fellow gods, or
demons, would prevail against my flesh and that of those who clung to
me, fulfilled at last in the fires of martyrdom for the Faith, as his
promise of my happiness was fulfilled?

I cannot tell. I cannot tell. Darkness entombs us all and history is
dumb.



At Aar there are many graves! Standing among them, not so long ago,
much of this history came back to me.










The Enchanted Typewriter

by John Kendrick Bangs




I

THE DISCOVERY




It is a strange fact, for which I do not expect ever
satisfactorily to account, and which will receive little
credence even among those who know that I am not given to
romancing--it is a strange fact, I say, that the substance of
the following pages has evolved itself during a period of six
months, more or less, between the hours of midnight and four
o'clock in the morning, proceeding directly from a type-writing
machine standing in the corner of my library, manipulated by
unseen hands. The machine is not of recent make. It is, in fact,
a relic of the early seventies, which I discovered one morning
when, suffering from a slight attack of the grip, I had remained
at home and devoted my time to pottering about in the attic,
unearthing old books, bringing to the light long-forgotten
correspondences, my boyhood collections of "stuff," and other
memory-inducing things. Whence the machine came originally I do
not recall. My impression is that it belonged to a stenographer
once in the employ of my father, who used frequently to come
to our house to take down dictations. However this may be, the
machine had lain hidden by dust and the flotsam and jetsam of
the house for twenty years, when, as I have said, I came upon
it unexpectedly. Old man as I am--I shall soon be thirty--the
fascination of a machine has lost none of its potency. I am as
pleased to-day watching the wheels of my watch "go round" as
ever I was, and to "monkey" with a type-writing apparatus has
always brought great joy into my heart--though for composing
give me the pen. Perhaps I should apologize for the use here
of the verb monkey, which savors of what a friend of mine
calls the "English slanguage," to differentiate it from what
he also calls the "Andrew Language." But I shall not do so,
because, to whatever branch of our tongue the word may belong,
it is exactly descriptive, and descriptive as no other word
can be, of what a boy does with things that click and "go,"
and is therefore not at all out of place in a tale which I
trust will be regarded as a polite one.

The discovery of the machine put an end to my attic
potterings. I cared little for finding old bill-files and
collections of Atlantic cable-ends when, with a whole morning,
a type-writing machine, and a screw-driver before me I could
penetrate the mysteries of that useful mechanism. I shall
not endeavor to describe the delightful sensations of that
hour of screwing and unscrewing; they surpass the powers of
my pen. Suffice it to say that I took the whole apparatus
apart, cleaned it well, oiled every joint, and then put it
together again. I do not suppose a seven-year-old boy could have
derived more satisfaction from taking a piano to pieces. It was
exhilarating, and I resolved that as a reward for the pleasure
it had given me the machine should have a brand-new ribbon and
as much ink as it could consume. And that, in brief, is how it
came to be that this machine of antiquated pattern was added to
the library bric-a-brac. To say the truth, it was of no more
practical use than Barye's dancing bear, a plaster cast of
which adorns my mantel-shelf, so that when I classify it with
the bric-a-brac I do so advisedly. I frequently tried to write
a jest or two upon it, but the results were extraordinarily
like Sir Arthur Sullivan's experience with the organ into
whose depths the lost chord sank, never to return. I dashed
off the jests well enough, but somewhere between the keys
and the types they were lost, and the results, when I came to
scan the paper, were depressing. And once I tried a sonnet on
the keys. Exactly how to classify the jumble that came out of
it I do not know, but it was curious enough to have appealed
strongly to D'Israeli or any other collector of the literary
oddity. More singular than the sonnet, though, was the fact
that when I tried to write my name upon this strange machine,
instead of finding it in all its glorious length written upon
the paper, I did find "William Shakespeare" printed there in
its stead. Of course you will say that in putting the machine
together I mixed up the keys and the letters. I have no doubt
that I did, but when I tell you that there have been times
when, looking at myself in the glass, I have fancied that
I saw in my mirrored face the lineaments of the great bard;
that the contour of my head is precisely the same as was his;
that when visiting Stratford for the first time every foot
of it was pregnant with clearly defined recollections to me,
you will perhaps more easily picture to yourself my sensations
at the moment.

However, enough of describing the machine in its relation
to myself. I have said sufficient, I think, to convince you
that whatever its make, its age, and its limitations, it was
an extraordinary affair; and, once convinced of that, you may
the more readily believe me when I tell you that it has gone
into business apparently for itself--and incidentally for me.

It was on the morning of the 26th of March last that I
discovered the curious condition of affairs concerning which
I have essayed to write. My family do not agree with me as to
the date. They say that it was on the evening of the 25th of
March that the episode had its beginning; but they are not
aware, for I have not told them, that it was not evening,
but morning, when I reached home after the dinner at the
Aldus Club. It was at a quarter of three A.M. precisely that
I entered my house and proceeded to remove my hat and coat,
in which operation I was interrupted, and in a startling
manner, by a click from the dark recesses of the library. A
man does not like to hear a click which he cannot comprehend,
even before he has dined. After he has dined, however, and
feels a satisfaction with life which cannot come to him before
dinner, to hear a mysterious click, and from a dark corner,
at an hour when the world is at rest, is not pleasing. To say
that my heart jumped into my mouth is mild. I believe it jumped
out of my mouth and rebounded against the wall opposite back
though my system into my boots. All the sins of my past life,
and they are many--I once stepped upon a caterpillar, and I have
coveted my neighbor both his man-servant and his maid-servant,
though not his wife nor his ass, because I don't like his wife
and he keeps no live-stock--all my sins, I say, rose up before
me, for I expected every moment that a bullet would penetrate
my brain, or my heart if perchance the burglar whom I suspected
of levelling a clicking revolver at me aimed at my feet.

"Who is there?" I cried, making a vocal display of bravery I
did not feel, hiding behind our hair sofa.

The only answer was another click.

"This is serious," I whispered softly to myself. "There are
two of 'em; I am in the light, unarmed. They are concealed by
the darkness and have revolvers. There is only one way out of
this, and that is by strategy. I'll pretend I think I've made
a mistake." So I addressed myself aloud.

"What an idiot you are," I said, so that my words could be
heard by the burglars. "If this is the effect of Aldus Club
dinners you'd better give them up. That click wasn't a click
at all, but the ticking of our new eight-day clock."

I paused, and from the corner there came a dozen more clicks
in quick succession, like the cocking of as many revolvers.

"Great Heavens!" I murmured, under my breath. "It must be Ali
Baba with his forty thieves."

As I spoke, the mystery cleared itself, for following close
upon a thirteenth click came the gentle ringing of a bell, and
I knew then that the type-writing machine was in action; but
this was by no means a reassuring discovery. Who or what could
it be that was engaged upon the type-writer at that unholy hour,
3 A.M.? If a mortal being, why was my coming no interruption? If
a supernatural being, what infernal complication might not
the immediate future have in store for me?

My first impulse was to flee the house, to go out into the night
and pace the fields--possibly to rush out to the golf links and
play a few holes in the dark in order to cool my brow, which
was rapidly becoming fevered. Fortunately, however, I am not
a man of impulse. I never yield to a mere nerve suggestion,
and so, instead of going out into the storm and certainly
contracting pneumonia, I walked boldly into the library to
investigate the causes of the very extraordinary incident. You
may rest well assured, however, that I took care to go armed,
fortifying myself with a stout stick, with a long, ugly steel
blade concealed within it--a cowardly weapon, by-the-way, which
I permit to rest in my house merely because it forms a part
of a collection of weapons acquired through the failure of a
comic paper to which I had contributed several articles. The
editor, when the crash came, sent me the collection as part
payment of what was owed me, which I think was very good of
him, because a great many people said that it was my stuff
that killed the paper. But to return to the story. Fortifying
myself with the sword-cane, I walked boldly into the library,
and, touching the electric button, soon had every gas-jet in
the room giving forth a brilliant flame; but these, brilliant
as they were, disclosed nothing in the chair before the machine.

The latter, apparently oblivious of my presence, went clicking
merrily and as rapidly along as though some expert young
woman were in charge. Imagine the situation if you can. A
type-writing machine of ancient make, its letters clear, but
out of accord with the keys, confronted by an empty chair,
three hours after midnight, rattling off page after page of
something which might or might not be readable, I could not
at the moment determine. For two or three minutes I gazed in
open-mouthed wonder. I was not frightened, but I did experience
a sensation which comes from contact with the uncanny. As I
gradually grasped the situation and became used, somewhat,
to what was going on, I ventured a remark.

"This beats the deuce!" I observed.

The machine stopped for an instant. The sheet of paper upon
which the impressions of letters were being made flew out
from under the cylinder, a pure white sheet was as quickly
substituted, and the keys clicked off the line:

"What does?"

I presumed the line was in response to my assertion, so
I replied:

"You do. What uncanny freak has taken possession of you to-night
that you start in to write on your own hook, having resolutely
declined to do any writing for me ever since I rescued you
from the dust and dirt and cobwebs of the attic?"

"You never rescued me from any attic," the machine
replied. "You'd better go to bed; you've dined too well,
I imagine. When did you rescue me from the dust and dirt and
the cobwebs of any attic?"

"What an ungrateful machine you are!" I cried. "If you have
sense enough to go into writing on your own account, you ought
to have mind enough to remember the years you spent up-stairs
under the roof neglected, and covered with hammocks, awnings,
family portraits, and receipted bills."

"Really, my dear fellow," the machine tapped back, "I must
repeat it. Bed is the place for you. You're not coherent. I'm
not a machine, and upon my honor, I've never seen your darned
old attic."

"Not a machine!" I cried. "Then what in Heaven's name are
you?--a sofa-cushion?"

"Don't be sarcastic, my dear fellow," replied the machine. "Of
course I'm not a machine; I'm Jim--Jim Boswell."

"What?" I roared. "You? A thing with keys and type and a bell--"

"I haven't got any keys or any type or a bell. What on earth
are you talking about?" replied the machine. "What have you
been eating?"

"What's that?" I asked, putting my hand on the keys.

"That's keys," was the answer.

"And these, and that?" I added, indicating the type and
the bell.

"Type and bell," replied the machine.

"And yet you say you haven't got them," I persisted.

"No, I haven't. The machine has got them, not I," was the
response. "I'm not the machine. I'm the man that's using
it--Jim--Jim Boswell. What good would a bell do me? I'm not a
cow or a bicycle. I'm the editor of the Stygian Gazette, and
I've come here to copy off my notes of what I see and hear,
and besides all this I do type-writing for various people in
Hades, and as this machine of yours seemed to be of no use to
you I thought I'd try it. But if you object, I'll go."

As I read these lines upon the paper I stood amazed and
delighted.

"Go!" I cried, as the full value of his patronage of my machine
dawned upon me, for I could sell his copy and he would be none
the worse off, for, as I understand the copyright laws, they
are not designed to benefit authors, but for the protection
of type-setters. "Why, my dear fellow, it would break my
heart if, having found my machine to your taste, you should
ever think of using another. I'll lend you my bicycle, too,
if you'd like it--in fact, anything I have is at your command."

"Thank you very much," returned Boswell through the medium of
the keys, as usual. "I shall not need your bicycle, but this
machine is of great value to me. It has several very remarkable
qualities which I have never found in any other machine. For
instance, singular to relate, Mendelssohn and I were fooling
about here the other night, and when he saw this machine he
thought it was a spinet of some new pattern; so what does he do
but sit down and play me one of his songs without words on it,
and, by jove! when he got through, there was the theme of the
whole thing printed on a sheet of paper before him."

"You don't really mean to say--" I began.

"I'm telling you precisely what happened," said
Boswell. "Mendelssohn was tickled to death with it, and he
played every song without words that he ever wrote, and every
one of 'em was fitted with words which he said absolutely
conveyed the ideas he meant to bring out with the music. Then
I tried the machine, and discovered another curious thing about
it. It's intensely American. I had a story of Alexander Dumas'
about his Musketeers that he wanted translated from French into
American, which is the language we speak below, in preference
to German, French, Volapuk, or English. I thought I'd copy
off a few lines of the French original, and as true as I'm
sitting here before your eyes, where you can't see me, the
copy I got was a good, though rather free, translation. Think
of it! That's an advanced machine for you!"

I looked at the machine wistfully. "I wish I could make it
work," I said; and I tried as before to tap off my name, and
got instead only a confused jumble of letters. It wouldn't
even pay me the compliment of transforming my name into that
of Shakespeare, as it had previously done.

It was thus that the magic qualities of the machine were made
known to me, and out of it the following papers have grown. I
have set them down without much editing or alteration, and now
submit them to your inspection, hoping that in perusing them
you will derive as much satisfaction and delight as I have in
being the possessor of so wonderful a machine, manipulated by
so interesting a person as "Jim--Jim Boswell"--as he always
calls himself--and others, who, as you will note, if perchance
you have the patience to read further, have upon occasions
honored my machine by using it.

I must add in behalf of my own reputation for honesty that
Mr. Boswell has given me all right, title, and interest in
these papers in this world as a return for my permission to
him to use my machine.

"What if they make a hit and bring in barrels of gold in
royalties," he said. "I can't take it back with me where I live,
so keep it yourself."




II

MR. BOSWELL IMPARTS SOME LATE NEWS OF HADES




Boswell was a little late in arriving the next night. He had
agreed to be on hand exactly at midnight, but it was after
one o'clock before the machine began to click and the bell
to ring. I had fallen asleep in the soft upholstered depths
of my armchair, feeling pretty thoroughly worn out by the
experiences of the night before, which, in spite of their
pleasant issue, were nevertheless somewhat disturbing to a
nervous organization like mine. Suddenly I waked, and with the
awakening there entered into my mind the notion that the whole
thing was merely a dream, and that in the end it would be the
better for me if I were to give up Aldus and other club dinners
with nightmare inducing menus. But I was soon convinced that the
real state of affairs was quite otherwise, and that everything
really had happened as I have already related it to you, for
I had hardly gotten my eyes free from what my poetic son calls
"the seeds of sleep" when I heard the type-writer tap forth:

"Hello, old man!"

Incidentally let me say that this had become another interesting
feature of the machine. Since my first interview with Boswell
the taps seemed to speak, and if some one were sitting before
it and writing a line the mere differentiation of sounds of the
various keys would convey to the mind the ideas conveyed to it
by the printed words. So, as I say, my ears were greeted with
a clicking "Hello, old man!" followed immediately by the bell.

"You are late," said I, looking at my watch.

"I know it," was the response. "But I can't help it. During the
campaign I am kept so infernally busy I hardly know where I am."

"Campaign, eh?" I put in. "Do you have campaigns in Hades?"

"Yes," replied Boswell, "and we are having a--well, to be
polite, a regular Gehenna of a time. Things have changed
much in Hades latterly. There has been a great growth in the
democratic spirit below, and his Majesty is having a deuce
of a time running his kingdom. Washington and Cromwell and
Caesar have had the nerve to demand a constitution from the
venerable Nicholas--"

"From whom?" I queried, perplexed somewhat, for I was not yet
fully awake.

"Old Nick," replied Boswell; "and I can tell you there's a
pretty fight on between the supporters of the administration
and the opposition. Secure in his power, the Grand Master of
Hades has been somewhat arbitrary, and he has made the mistake
of doing some of his subjects a little too brown. Take the
case of Bonaparte, for instance: the government has ruled
that he was personally responsible for all the wars of Europe
from 1800 up to Waterloo, and it was proposed to hang him
once for every man killed on either side throughout that
period. Bonaparte naturally resisted. He said he had a good
neck, which he did not object to have broken three or four
times, because he admitted he deserved it; but when it came to
hanging him five or six million times, once a month, for, say,
five million months, or twelve times a year for 415,000 years,
he didn't like it, and wouldn't stand it, and wanted to submit
the question to arbitration.

"Nicholas observed that the word arbitration was not in his
especially expurgated dictionary, whereupon Bonaparte remarked
that he wasn't responsible for that; that he thought it a
good word and worthy of incorporation in any dictionary and
in all vocabularies.

"'I don't care what you think,' retorted his Majesty. 'It's
what I don't think that goes;' and he commanded his imps
to prepare the gallows on the third Thursday of each month
for Bonaparte's expiation; ordered his secretary to send
Bonaparte a type-written notice that his presence on each
occasion was expected, and gave orders to the police to see
that he was there willy-nilly. Naturally Bonaparte resisted,
and appealed to the courts. Blackstone sustained his appeal,
and Nicholas overruled him. The first Thursday came, and the
police went for the Emperor, but he was surrounded by a good
half of the men who had fought under him, and the minions
of the law could do nothing against them. In consequence,
Bonaparte's brother, Joseph, a quiet, inoffensive citizen,
was dragged from his home and hanged in his place, Nicholas
contending that when a soldier could not, or would not, serve,
the government had a right to expect a substitute. Well,"
said Boswell, at this point, "that set all Hades on fire. We
were divided as to Bonaparte's deserts, but the hanging of
other people as substitutes was too much. We didn't know who'd
be substituted next. The English backed up Blackstone, of
course. The French army backed up Bonaparte. The inoffensive
citizens were aroused in behalf of Joseph, for they saw at
once whither they were drifting if the substitute idea was
carried out to its logical conclusion; and in half an hour
the administration was on the defensive, which, as you know,
is a very, very, very bad thing for an administration."

"It is, if it desires to be returned to office," said I.

"It is anyhow," replied Boswell through the medium of the keys.
"It's in exactly the same position as that of a humorist who
has to print explanatory diagrams with all of his jokes. The
administration papers were hot over the situation. The king
can do no wrong idea was worked for all it was worth, but
beyond this they drew pathetic pictures of the result of all
these deplorable tendencies. What was Hades for, they asked,
if a man, after leading a life of crime in the other world,
was not to receive his punishment there? The attitude of
the opposition was a radical and vicious blow at the vital
principles of the sphere itself. The opposition papers coolly
and calmly took the position that the vital principles of Hades
were all right; that it was the extreme view as to the power
of the Emperor taken by that person himself that wouldn't go in
these democratic days. Punishment for Bonaparte was the correct
thing, and Bonaparte expected some, but was not grasping enough
to want it all. They added that recent fully settled ideas as
to a humane application of the laws required the bunching of
the indictments or the selection of one and a fair trial based
upon that, and that anyhow, under no circumstances, should
a wholly innocent person be made to suffer for the crimes of
another. These journals were suppressed, but the next day a
set of new papers were started to promulgate the same theories
as to individual rights. The province of Cimmeria declared
itself independent of the throne, and set up in the business
of government for itself. Gehenna declared for the Emperor,
but insisted upon home rule for cities of its own class,
and finally, as I informed you at the beginning, Washington,
Cromwell, and Caesar went in person to Apollyon and demanded
a constitution. That was the day before yesterday, and just
what will come of it we don't as yet know, because Washington
and Cromwell and Caesar have not been seen since, but we have
great fears for them, because seventeen car-loads of vitriol
and a thousand extra tons of coal were ordered by the Lord
High Steward of the palace to be delivered to the Minister of
Justice last night."

"Quite a complication," said I. "The Americanization of Hades
has begun at last. How does society regard the affair?"

"Variously," observed Boswell. "Society hates the government as
much as anybody, and really believes in curtailing the Emperor's
powers, but, on the other hand, it desires to maintain all of
its own aristocratic privileges. The main trouble in Hades at
present is the gradual disintegration of society; that is to
say, its former component parts are beginning to differentiate
themselves the one from the other."

"Like capital and labor here?" I queried.

"In a sense, yes--possibly more like your Colonial Dames, and
Daughters of the Revolution. For instance, great organizations
are in process of formation--people are beginning to flock
together for purposes of protection. Charles the First and
Henry the Eighth and Louis the Fourteenth have established Ye
Ancient and Honorable Order of Kings, to which only those who
have actually worn crowns shall be eligible. The painters have
gotten together with a Society of Fine Arts, the sculptors have
formed a Society of Chisellers, and all the authors from Homer
down to myself have got up an Authors' Club where we have a
lovely time talking about ourselves, no man to be eligible
who hasn't written something that has lasted a hundred
years. Perhaps, if you are thinking of coming over soon,
you'll let me put you on our waiting-list?"

I smiled at his seeming inconsistency and let myself into
his snare.

"I haven't written anything that has lasted a hundred years
yet," said I.

"Oh, yes, I think you have," replied Boswell, and the machine
seemed to laugh as he wrote out his answer. "I saw a joke of
yours the other day that's two hundred centuries old. Diogenes
showed it to me and said that it was a great favorite with
his grandfather, who had inherited it from one of his remote
ancestors."

A hot retort was on my lips, but I had no wish to offend my
guest, so I smiled and observed that I had frequently indulged
in unconscious plagiarism of that sort.

"I should imagine," I hastened to add, "that to men like Charles
the First this uncertainty as to the safety of Cromwell would
be great joy."

"I hardly know," returned Boswell. "That very question has been
discussed among us. Charles made a great outward show of grief
when he heard of the coal being delivered at the office of the
Minister of Justice, and we all thought him quite magnanimous,
but it leaked out, just before I left to come here, that he
sent his private secretary to the palace with a Panama hat and
a palm-leaf fan for Cromwell, with his congratulations.

"That seems to savor somewhat of sarcasm."

"Oh, ultimately Hades is bound to be a republic," replied
Boswell. "There are too many clever and ambitious politicians
among us for the place to go along as a despotism much
longer. If the place were filled up with poets and society
people, and things like that, it might go on as an autocracy
forever, but you see it isn't. To men of the caliber of
Alexander the Great and Bonaparte and Caesar, and a thousand
other warriors who never were used to taking orders from
anybody, but were themselves headquarters, the despotic sway
of Apollyon is intolerable, and he hasn't made any effort
to conciliate any of them. If he had appointed Bonaparte
commander-in-chief of his army and made a friend of him, instead
of ordering him to be hanged every month for 415,000 years,
or put Caesar in as Secretary of State, instead of having him
roasted three times a month for seventy or eighty centuries, he
would have strengthened his hold. As it is, he has ignored all
these people officially, treats them like criminals personally;
makes friends with Mazarin and Powhatan, awards the office of
Tax Assessor to Dick Turpin, and makes old Falstaff commander of
his Imperial Guard. And just because poor Ben Jonson scribbled
off a rhyme for my paper, The Gazette--a rhyme running:

        Mazarin And Powhatan,
     Turpin and Falstaff,
        Form, you bet, A cabinet
     To make a donkey laugh.

        Mazarin And Powhatan
     Run Apollyon's state.
        The Dick and Jacks Collect the tax--
     The people pay the freight.

--just because Jonson wrote that and I published it, my paper
was confiscated, Jonson was boiled in oil for ten weeks, and I
was seized and thrown into a dungeon where a lot of savages from
the South Sea Islands tattooed the darned old jingle between
my shoulder blades in green letters, and not satisfied with
this barbaric act, right under the jingle they added the line,
in red letters, 'This edition strictly limited to one copy, for
private circulation only,' and they every one of 'em, Apollyon,
Mazarin, and the rest, signed the guarantee personally with
red-hot pens dipped in sulphuric acid. It makes a valuable
collection of autographs, no doubt, but I prefer my back as
nature made it. Talk about enlightened government under a man
who'll permit things like that to be done!"

I ought not to have done it, but I couldn't help smiling.

"I must say," I observed, apologetically, "that the treatment
was barbarous, but really I do think it showed a sense of
humor on the part of the government."

"No doubt," replied Boswell, with a sigh; "but when the
joke is on me I don't enjoy it very much. I'm only human,
and should prefer to observe that the government had some
sense of justice."

The apparently empty chair before the machine gave a slight
hitch forward, and the type-writer began to tap again.

"You'll have to excuse me now," observed Boswell through the
usual medium. "I have work to do, and if you'll go to bed like
a good fellow, while I copy off the minutes of the last meeting
of the Authors' Club, I'll see that you don't lose anything by
it. After I get the minutes done I have an interesting story for
my Sunday paper from the advance sheets of Munchausen's Further
Recollections, which I shall take great pleasure in leaving for
you when I depart. If you will take the bundle of manuscript
I leave with you and boil it in alcohol for ten minutes, you
will be able to read it, and, no doubt, if you copy it off,
sell it for a goodly sum. It is guaranteed absolutely genuine."

"Very well," said I, rising, "I'll go; but I should think you
would put in most of your time whacking at the government
editorially, instead of going in for minutes and abstract
stories of adventure."

"You do, eh?" said Boswell. "Well, if you were in my place you'd
change your mind. After my unexpected endorsement by the Emperor
and his cabinet, I've decided to keep out of politics for a
little while. I can stand having a poem tattooed on my back,
but if it came to having a three-column editorial expressing my
emotions etched alongside of my spine, I'm afraid I'd disappear
into thin air."

So I left him at work and retired. The next morning I found
the promised bundle of manuscripts, and, after boiling the
pages as instructed, discovered the following tale.




III

FROM ADVANCE SHEETS OF BARON MUNCHAUSEN'S FURTHER RECOLLECTIONS




It is with some very considerable hesitation that I come to this
portion of my personal recollections, and yet I feel that I owe
it to my fellow-citizens in this delightful Stygian country,
where we are all enjoying our well-earned rest, to lay before
them the exact truth concerning certain incidents which have now
passed into history, and for participation in which a number
of familiar figures are improperly gaining all the credit, or
discredit, as the case may be. It is not a pleasant task to
expose an impostor; much less is it agreeable to expose four
impostors; but to one who from the earliest times--and when I
say earliest times I speak advisedly, as you will see as you
read on--to one, I say, who from the earliest times has been
actuated by no other motive than the promulgation of truth, the
task of exposing fraud becomes a duty which cannot be ignored.
Therefore, with regret I set down this chapter of my memoirs,
regardless of its consequences to certain figures which have
been of no inconsiderable importance in our community for many
years--figures which in my own favorite club, the Associated
Shades, have been most welcome, but which, as I and they alone
know, have been nothing more than impostures.

In previous volumes I have confined my attention to my memoirs
as Baron Munchausen--but, dear reader, there are others. I WAS
NOT ALWAYS BARON MUNCHAUSEN; I HAVE BEEN OTHERS! I am not aware
that it has fallen to the lot of any but myself in the whole
span of universal existence to live more than one life upon
that curious, compact little ball of land and water called the
Earth, but, in any event, to me has fallen that privilege or
distinction, or whatever it may be, and upon the record made by
me in four separate existences, placed centuries apart, four
residents of this sphere are basing their claims to notice,
securing election to our clubs, and even venturing so far at
times as to make themselves personally obnoxious to me, who
with a word could expose their wicked deceit in all its naked
villainy to an astounded community. And in taking this course
they have gone too far. There is a limit beyond which no man
shall dare go with me. Satisfied with the ultimate embodiment
of my virtues in the Baron Munchausen, I have been disposed to
allow the impostors to pursue their deception in peace so long
as they otherwise behave themselves, but when Adam chooses
to allude to my writings as frothy lies, when Jonah attacks
my right as a literary person to tell tales of leviathans,
when Noah states that my ignorance in yachting matters is
colossal, and when William Shakespeare publicly brands me as
a person unworthy of belief who should be expelled from the
Associated Shades, then do I consider it time to speak out
and expose four of the greatest frauds that have ever been
inflicted upon a long-suffering public.

To begin at the beginning then, let me state that my first
recollection dates back to a beautiful summer morning, when
in a lovely garden I opened my eyes and became conscious of
two very material facts: first, a charming woman arranging
her hair in the mirror-like waters of a silver lake directly
before me; and, second, a poignant pain in my side, as
though I had been operated upon for appendicitis, but which
in reality resulted from the loss of a rib which had in turn
evoluted into the charming and very human being I now saw
before me. That woman was Eve; that mirror-like lake was set
in the midst of the Garden of Eden; I was Adam, and not this
watery-eyed antediluvian calling himself by my name, who is a
familiar figure in the Anthropological Society, an authority
on evolution, and a blot upon civilization.

I have little to say about this first existence of mine. It
was full of delights. Speech not having been invented, Eve
was an attractive companion to a man burdened as I was with
responsibilities, and until our children were born we went
our way in happiness and silence. It is not in the nature of
things, however, that children should not wish to talk, and
it was through the irrepressible efforts of Cain and Abel to
be heard as well as seen that first called the attention of
Eve and myself to the desirability of expressing our thoughts
in words rather than by masonic signs.

I shall not burden my readers with further recollections of
this period. It was excessively primitive, of necessity,
but before leaving it I must ask the reader to put one or two
questions to himself in this matter.

1st. How is it that this bearded patriarch, who now poses as
the only original Adam, has never been able, with any degree
of positiveness, to answer the question as to whether or not
he was provided with a caudal appendage--a question which I am
prepared to answer definitely, at any moment, if called upon
by the proper authorities, and, if need be, to produce not
only the tail itself, but the fierce and untamed pterodactyl
that bit it off upon that unfortunate autumn afternoon when
he and I had our first and last conflict.

2d. Why is it that when describing a period concerning which
he is supposed to know all, he seems to have given voice to
sentiments in phrases which would have delighted Sheridan and
shed added glory upon the eloquence of Webster, AT A TIME WHEN,
AS I HAVE ALREADY SHOWN, THERE WAS NO SUCH THING AS SPEECH?

Upon these two points alone I rest my case against Adam: the
first is the reticence of guilt--he doesn't know, and he knows
he doesn't know; the second is a deliberate and offensive
prevarication, which shows again that he doesn't know, and
assumes that we are all equally ignorant.

So much for Adam. Now for the cheap and year-ridden person
who has taken unto himself my second personality, Noah; and
that other strange combination of woe and wickedness, Jonah,
who has chosen to pre-empt my third. I shall deal with both
at one and the same time, for, taken separately, they are not
worthy of notice.

Noah asserts that I know nothing of yachting. I will accept
the charge with the qualification that I know a great sight
more about Arking than he does; and as for Jonah, I can give
Jonah points on whaling, and I hereby challenge them both to a
Memoir Match for $2000 a side, in gold, to see which can give
to the world the most interesting reminiscences concerning the
cruises of the two craft in question, the Ark and the Whale,
upon neither of which did either of these two anachronisms
ever set foot, and of both of which I, in my two respective
existences, was commander-in-chief. The fact is that, as in
the case of the fictitious Adam, these two impersonators are
frauds. The man now masquerading as Noah was my hired man in
the latter part of the antediluvian period; was discharged
three years before the flood; was left on shore at the hour of
departure, and when last seen by me was sitting on the top of
an apple-tree, begging to do two men's work for nothing if we'd
only let him out of the wet. If he will at any time submit to
a cross-examination at my hands as to the principal events of
that memorable voyage, I will show to any fair-minded judge
how impossible is his claim that he was in command, or even
afloat, after the first week. I have hitherto kept silent in
this matter, in spite of many and repeated outrageous flings,
for the sake of his--or rather my--family, who have been
deceived, as have all the rest of us, barring, of course,
myself. References to portraits of leading citizens of that
period will easily show how this can be. We were all alike as
two peas in the olden days, and at a time when men reached to
an advanced age which is not known now, it frequently became
almost impossible to distinguish one old man from another.
I will say, finally, in regard to this person Noah that if
he can give to the public a statement telling the essential
differences between a pterodactyl and a double spondee that
will not prove utterly absurd to an educated person, I will
withdraw my accusation and resign from the club. BUT I KNOW
WELL HE CANNOT DO IT, and he does too, and that is about the
extent of his knowledge.

Now as to Jonah. I really dislike very much to tread upon this
worthy's toes, and I should not do it had he not chosen to clap
an injunction upon a volume of Tales of the Whales, which I
wrote for children last summer, claiming that I was infringing
upon his copyright, and feeling that I as a self-respecting
man would never claim the discredit of having myself been
the person he claims to have been. I will candidly confess
that I am not proud of my achievements as Jonah. I was a very
oily person even before I embarked upon the seas as Lord High
Admiral of H.M.S. Leviathan. I was not a pleasant person to
know. If I spent the night with a friend, his roof would fall
in or his house would burn down. If I bet on a horse, he would
lead up to the home-stretch and fall down dead an inch from the
finish. If I went into a stock speculation, I was invariably
caught on a rising or a falling market. In my youth I spoiled
every yachting-party I went on by attracting a gale. When I
came out the moon went behind a cloud, and people who began
by endorsing my paper ended up in the poor-house. Commerce
wouldn't have me. Boards of Trade everywhere repudiated me,
and I gradually sank into that state of despair which finds no
solace anywhere but on the sea or in politics, and as politics
was then unknown I went to sea. The result is known to the
world. I was cast overboard, ingulfed by a whale, which,
in his defence let me be generous enough to say, swallowed
me inadvertently and with the usual result. I came back, and
life went on. Finally I came here, and when it got to the ears
of the authorities that I was in Hades, they sent me back for
the fourth time to earth in the person of William Shakespeare.

That is the whole of the Jonah story. It is a sad story, and I
regret it; and I am sorry for the impostor when I reflect that
the character he has assumed possesses attractions for him. His
real life must have been a fearful thing if he is happy in his
impersonation, and for his punishment let us leave him where he
is. Having told the truth, I have done my duty. I cheerfully
resign my claim to the personality he claims--I relinquish
from this time on all right, title, and interest in the name;
but if he ever dares to interfere with me again in the use of
my personal recollections concerning the inside of whales I
shall hale him before the authorities.

And now, finally, I come to Shakespeare, whom I have kept
for the last, not because he was the last chronologically,
but because I like to work up to a climax.

Previous to my existence as Baron Munchausen I lived for a term
of years on earth as William Shakespeare, and what I have to
say now is more in the line of confession than otherwise.

In my boyhood I was wild and I poached. If I were not afraid
of having it set down as a joke, I should say that I poached
everything from eggs to deer. I was not a great joy to my
parents. There was no deviltry in Stratford in which I did not
take a leading part, and finally, for the good of Warwickshire,
I was sent to London, where a person of my talents was more
likely to find congenial and appreciative surroundings. A glance
at such of my autographs as are now extant will demonstrate
the fact that I never learned to write; a glance at the first
folios of the plays attributed to me will likewise show that
I never learned to spell; and yet I walked into London with
one of the most exquisite poems in the English language in my
pocket. I am still filled with merriment over it. How was it,
the critics of the years since have asked--how was it that
this untutored little savage from leafy Warwickshire, with no
training and little education, came into London with "Venus
and Adonis" in manuscript in his pocket? It is quite evident
that the critic fraternity have no Sherlock Holmes in their
midst. It would not take much of an eye, a true detective's eye,
to see the milk in that cocoanut, for it is but a simple tale
after all. The way of it was this: On my way from Stratford to
London I walked through Coventry, and I remained in Coventry
overnight. I was ill-clad and hungry, and, having no money
with which to pay for my supper, I went to the Royal Arms Hotel
and offered my services as porter for the night, having noted
that a rich cavalcade from London, en route to Kenilworth, had
arrived unexpectedly at the Royal Arms. Taken by surprise,
and, therefore, unprepared to accommodate so many guests,
the landlord was glad to avail himself of my services, and
I was assigned to the position of boots. Among others whom I
served was Walter Raleigh, who, noting my ragged condition and
hearing what a roisterer and roustabout I had been, immediately
took pity upon me, and gave me a plum-colored court-suit with
which he was through, and which I accepted, put upon my back,
and next day wore off to London. It was in the pocket of this
that I found the poem of "Venus and Adonis." That poem, to keep
myself from starving, I published when I reached London, sending
a complimentary copy of course to my benefactor. When Raleigh
saw it he was naturally surprised but gratified, and on his
return to London he sought me out, and suggested the publication
of his sonnets. I was the first man he'd met, he said, who
was willing to publish his stuff on his own responsibility. I
immediately put out some of the sonnets, and in time was making
a comfortable living, publishing the anonymous works of most of
the young bucks about town, who paid well for my imprint. That
the public chose to think the works were mine was none of my
fault. I never claimed them, and the line on the title-page,
"By William Shakespeare," had reference to the publisher only,
and not, as many have chosen to believe, to the author. Thus
were published Lord Bacon's "Hamlet," Raleigh's poems, several
plays of Messrs. Beaumont and Fletcher--who were themselves
among the cleverest adapters of the times--and the rest of
that glorious monument to human credulity and memorial to
an impossible, wholly apocryphal genius, known as the works
of William Shakespeare. The extent of my writing during this
incarnation was ten autographs for collectors, and one attempt
at a comic opera called "A Midsummer's Nightmare," which was
never produced, because no one would write the music for it,
and which was ultimately destroyed with three of my quatrains
and all of Bacon's evidence against my authorship of "Hamlet,"
in the fire at the Globe Theatre in the year 1613.

These, then, dear reader, are the revelations which I have
to make. In my next incarnation I was the man I am now known
to be, Baron Munchausen. As I have said, I make the exposure
with regret, but the arrogance of these impudent impersonators
of my various personalities has grown too great to be longer
borne. I lay the simple story of their villany before you for
what it is worth. I have done my duty. If after this exposure
the public of Hades choose to receive them in their homes and
at their clubs, and as guests at their functions, they will
do it with a full knowledge of their duplicity.

In conclusion, fearing lest there be some doubters among the
readers of this paper, I have allowed my friend, the editor
of this esteemed journal, which is to publish this story
exclusively on Sunday next, free access to my archives, and
he has selected as exhibits of evidence, to which I earnestly
call your attention, the originals of the cuts which illustrate
this chapter--viz:

I. A full-length portrait of Eve as she appeared at our first
meeting.

II. Portraits of Cain and Abel at the ages of two, five,
and seven.

III. The original plans and specifications of the Ark.

IV. Facsimile of her commission.

V. Portrait-sketch of myself and the false Noah, made at the
time, and showing how difficult it would have been for any
member of my family, save myself, to tell us apart.

VI. A cathode-ray photograph of the whale, showing myself,
the original Jonah, seated inside.

VII. Facsimiles of the Shakespeare autographs, proving that
he knew neither how to write nor to spell, and so of course
proving effectually that I was not the author of his works.


It must be confessed that I read this article of Munchausen's
with amazement, and I awaited with much excited curiosity
the coming again of the manipulator of my type-writing
machine. Surely a revelation of this nature should create
a sensation in Hades, and I was anxious to learn how it was
received. Boswell did not materialize, however, and for five
nights I fairly raged with the fever of curiosity, but on
the sixth night the familiar tinkle of the bell announced an
arrival, and I flew to the machine and breathlessly cried:

"Hullo, old chap, how did it come out?"

The reply was as great a surprise as I have yet had, for it
was not Boswell, Jim Boswell, who answered my question.




IV

A CHAT WITH XANTHIPPE




The machine stopped its clicking the moment I spoke, and the
words, "Hullo, old chap!" were no sooner uttered than my face
grew red as a carnation pink. I felt as if I had committed
some dreadful faux-pas, and instead of gazing steadfastly into
the vacant chair, as I had been wont to do in my conversation
with Boswell, my eyes fell, as though the invisible occupant
of the chair were regarding me with a look of indignant scorn.

"I beg your pardon," I said.

"I should think you might," returned the types. "Hullo, old
chap!" is no way to address a woman you've never had the honor
of meeting, even if she is of the most advanced sort. No amount
of newness in a woman gives a man the right to be disrespectful
to her."

"I didn't know," I explained. "Really, miss, I--"

"Madame," interrupted the machine, "not miss. I am
a married woman, sir, which makes of your rudeness an
even more reprehensible act. It is well enough to affect a
good-fellowship with young unmarried females, but when you
attempt to be flippant with a married woman--"

"But I didn't know, I tell you," I appealed. "How should I? I
supposed it was Boswell I was talking to, and he and I have
become very good friends."

"Humph!" said the machine. "You're a chum of Boswell's, eh?"

"Well, not exactly a chum, but--" I began.

"But you go with him?" interrupted the lady.

"To an extent, yes," I confessed.

"And does he GO with you?" was the query. "If he does, permit
me to depart at once. I should not feel quite in my element
in a house where the editor of a Sunday newspaper was an
attractive guest. If you like that sort of thing, your tastes--"

"I do not, madame," I replied, quickly. "I prefer the opium
habit to the Sunday-newspaper habit, and if I thought Boswell
was merely a purveyor of what is known as Sunday literature,
which depends on the goodness of the day to offset its
shortcomings, I should forbid him the house."

A distinct sigh of relief emanated from the chair.

"Then I may remain," was the remark rapidly clicked off on
the machine.

"I am glad," said I. "And may I ask whom I have the honor
of addressing?"

"Certainly," was the immediate response. "My name is Socrates,
nee Xanthippe."

I instinctively cowered. Candidly, I was afraid. Never in my
life before had I met a woman whom I feared. Never in my life
have I wavered in the presence of the sex which cheers, but I
have always felt that while I could hold my own with Elizabeth,
withstand the wiles of Cleopatra, and manage the recalcitrant
Katherine even as did Petruchio, Xanthippe was another story
altogether, and I wished I had gone to the club. My first
impulse was to call up-stairs to my wife and have her come
down. She knows how to handle the new woman far better than I
do. She has never wanted to vote, and my collars are safe in
her hands. She has frequently observed that while she had many
things to be thankful for, her greatest blessing was that she
was born a woman and not a man, and the new women of her native
town never leave her presence without wondering in their own
minds whether or not they are mere humorous contributions of
the Almighty to a too serious world. I pulled myself together
as best I could, and feeling that my better-half would perhaps
decline the proffered invitation to meet with one of the most
illustrious of her sex, I decided to fight my own battle. So
I merely said:

"Really? How delightful! I have always felt that I should like
to meet you, and here is one of my devoutest wishes gratified."

I felt cheap after the remark, for Mrs. Socrates, nee Xanthippe,
covered five sheets of paper with laughter, with an occasional
bracketing of the word "derisively," such as we find in the
daily newspapers interspersed throughout the after-dinner
speeches of a candidate of another party. Finally, to my
relief, the oft-repeated "Ha-ha-ha!" ceased, and the line,
"I never should have guessed it," closed her immediate
contribution to our interchange of ideas.

"May I ask why you laugh?" I observed, when she had at length
finished.

"Certainly," she replied. "Far be it from me to dispute the
right of a man to ask any question he sees fit to ask. Is he
not the lord of creation? Is not woman his abject slave? I
not the whole difference between them purely economic? Is it
not the law of supply and demand that rules them both, he by
nature demanding and she supplying?"

Dear reader, did you ever encounter a machine, man-made,
merely a mechanism of ivory, iron, and ink, that could sniff
contemptuously? I never did before this encounter, but the
infernal power of either this type-writer or this woman who
manipulated its keys imparted to the atmosphere I was breathing
a sniffing contemptuousness which I have never experienced
anywhere outside of a London hotel, and then only when I
ventured, as few Americans have dared, to complain of the ducal
personage who presided over the dining-room, but who, I must
confess, was conquered subsequently by a tip of ten shillings.

At any rate, there was a sniff of contempt imparted, as I have
said, to the atmosphere I was breathing as Xanthippe answered
my question, and the sniff saved me, just as it did in the
London hotel, when I complained of the lordly lack of manners
on the part of the head waiter. I asserted my independence.

"Don't trouble yourself," I put in. "Of course I shall
be interested in anything you may choose to say, but as a
gentleman I do not care to put a woman to any inconvenience
and I do not press the question."

And then I tried to crush her by adding, "What a lovely day we
have had," as if any subject other than the most commonplace
was not demanded by the situation.

"If you contemplate discussing the weather," was the
retort, "I wish you would kindly seek out some one else
with whom to do it. I am not one of your latter-day
sit-out-on-the-stairs-while-the-others-dance girls. I am,
as I have always been, an ardent admirer of principles, of
great problems. For small talk I have no use."

"Very well, madame--" I began.

"You asked me a moment ago why I laughed," clicked the machine.

"I know it," said I. "But I withdraw the question. There is no
great principle involved in a woman's laughter. I have known
women who have laughed at a broken heart, as well as at jokes,
which shows that there is no principle involved there; and as
a problem, I have never cared enough about why women laugh
to inquire deeply into it. If she'll just consent to laugh,
I'm satisfied without inquiring into the causes thereof. Let
us get down to an agreeable basis for yourself. What problem do
you wish to discuss? Servants, baby-food, floor-polish, or the
number of godets proper to the skirt of a well-dressed woman?"

I was regaining confidence in myself, and as I talked I ceased
to fear her. Thought I to myself, "This attitude of supreme
patronage is man's safest weapon against a woman. Keep cool,
assume that there is no doubt of your superiority, and that she
knows it. Appear to patronize her, and her own indignation will
defeat her ends." It is a good principle generally. Among mortal
women I have never known it to fail, and when I find myself
worsted in an argument with one of man's greatest blessings,
I always fall back upon it and am saved the ignominy of
defeat. But this time I counted without my antagonist.

"Will you repeat that list of problems?" she asked, coldly.

"Servants, baby-food, floor-polish, and godets," I repeated,
somewhat sheepishly, she took it so coolly.

"Very well," said Xanthippe, with a note of amusement in her
manipulation of the keys. "If those are your subjects, let us
discuss them. I am surprised to find an able-bodied man like
yourself bothering with such problems, but I'll help you out
of your difficulties if I can. No needy man shall ever say
that I ignored his cry for help. What do you want to know
about baby-food?"

This turning of the tables nonplussed me, and I didn't really
know what to say, and so wisely said nothing, and the machine
grew sharp in its clicking.

"You men!" it cried. "You don't know how fearfully shallow
you are. I can see through you in a minute."

"Well," I said, modestly, "I suppose you can." Then calling
my feeble wit to my rescue, I added, "It's only natural,
since I've made a spectacle of myself."

"Not you!" cried Xanthippe. "You haven't even made a monocle
of yourself."

And here we both laughed, and the ice was broken.

"What has become of Boswell?" I asked.

"He's been sent to the ovens for ten days for libelling
Shakespeare and Adam and Noah and old Jonah," replied
Xanthippe. "He printed an article alleged to have been written
by Baron Munchausen, in which those four gentlemen were held
up to ridicule and libelled grossly."

"And Munchausen?" I cried.

"Oh, the Baron got out of it by confessing that he wrote the
article," replied the lady. "And as he swore to his confession
the jury were convinced he was telling another one of his
lies and acquitted him, so Boswell was sent up alone. That's
why I am here. There isn't a man in all Hades that dared take
charge of Boswell's paper--they're all so deadly afraid of
the government, so I stepped in, and while Boswell is baking
I'm attending to his editorial duties."

"But you spoke contemptuously of the Sunday newspapers awhile
ago, Mrs. Socrates," said I.

"I know that," said Xanthippe, "but I've fixed that. I get
out the Sunday edition on Saturdays."

"Oh--I see. And you like it?" I queried.

"First rate," she replied. "I'm in love with the work. I
almost wish poor old Bos had been sentenced for ten years. I
have enough of the woman in me to love minding other people's
business, and, as far as I can find out, that's about all
journalism amounts to. Sewing societies aren't to be mentioned
in the same day with a newspaper for scandal and gossip, and,
besides, I'm an ardent advocate of men's rights--have been for
centuries--and I've got my first chance now to promulgate a few
of my ideas. I'm really a man in all my views of life--that's
the inevitable end of an advanced woman who persists in
following her 'newness' to its logical conclusion. Her habits
of thought gradually come to be those of a man. Even I have a
great deal more sympathy with Socrates than I used to have. I
used to think I was the one that should be emancipated, but
I'm really reaching that stage in my manhood where I begin to
believe that he needs emancipation."

"Then you admit, do you," I cried, with great glee, "that this
new-woman business is all Tommy-rot?"

"Not by a great deal," snapped the machine. "Far from it. It's
the salvation of the happy life. It is perfectly logical to
say that the more manny a woman becomes, the more she is likely
to sympathize with the troubles and trials which beset men."

I scratched my head and pulled the lobe of my ear in the
hope of loosening an argument to confront her with, not that I
disagreed with her entirely, but because I instinctively desired
to oppose her as pleasantly disagreeably as I could. But the
result was nil.

"I'm afraid you are right," I said.

"You're a truthful man," clicked the machine, laughingly. "You
are afraid I'm right. And why are you afraid? Because you are
one of those men who take a cynical view of woman. You want
woman to be a mere lump of sugar, content to be left in a bowl
until it pleases you in your high-and-mightiness to take her
in the tongs and drop her into the coffee of your existence,
to sweeten what would otherwise not please your taste--and
like most men you prefer two or three lumps to one."

I could only cough. The lady was more or less right. I am very
fond of sugar, though one lump is my allowance, and I never
exceed it, whatever the temptation. Xanthippe continued.

"You criticise her because she doesn't understand you and your
needs, forgetting that out of twenty-four hours of your daily
existence your wife enjoys personally about twelve hours of your
society, during eight of which you are lying flat on your back,
snoring as though your life depended on it; but when she asks
to be allowed to share your responsibilities as well as what,
in her poor little soul, she thinks are your joys, you flare
up and call her 'new' and 'advanced,' as if advancement were
a crime. You ride off on your wheel for forty miles on your
days of rest, and she is glad to have you do it, but when she
wants a bicycle to ride, you think it's all wrong, immoral,
and conducive to a weak heart. Bah!"

"I--ah--" I began.

"Yes you do," she interrupted. "You ah and you hem and you haw,
but in the end you're a poor miserable social mugwump, conscious
of your own magnificence and virtue, but nobody else ever can
attain to your lofty plane. Now what I want to see among women
is more good fellows. Suppose you regarded your wife as good
a fellow as you think your friend Jones. Do you think you'd
be running off to the club every night to play billiards with
Jones, leaving your wife to enjoy her own society?"

"Perhaps not," I replied, "but that's just the point. My wife
isn't a good fellow."

"Exactly, and for that reason you seek out Jones. You have
a right to the companionship of the good fellow--that's what
I'm going to advocate. I've advanced far enough to see that on
the average in the present state of woman she is not a suitable
companion for man--she has none of the qualities of a chum to
which he is entitled. I'm not so blind but that I can see the
faults of my own sex, particularly now that I have become so
very masculine myself. Both sexes should have their rights,
and that is the great policy I'm going to hammer at as long
as I have Boswell's paper in charge. I wish you might see my
editorial page for to-morrow; it is simply fine. I urge upon
woman the necessity of joining in with her husband in all
his pleasures whether she enjoys them or not. When he lights
a cigar, let her do the same; when he calls for a cocktail,
let her call for another. In time she will begin to understand
him. He understands her pleasures, and often he joins in with
them--opera, dances, lectures; she ought to do the same,
and join in with him in his pleasures, and after a while
they'll get upon a common basis, have their clubs together,
and when that happy time comes, when either one goes out the
other will also go, and their companionship will be perfect."

"But you objected to my calling you old chap when we first met,"
said I. "Is that quite consistent?"

"Of course," retorted the lady. "We had never met before, and,
besides, doctors do not always take their own medicine."

"But that women ought to become good fellows is what you're
going to advocate, eh?" said I.

"Yes," replied Xanthippe. "It's excellent, don't you think?"

"Superb," I answered, "for Hades. It's just my idea of how
things ought to be in Hades. I think, however, that we mortals
will stick to the old plan for a little while yet; most of us
prefer to marry wives rather than old chaps."

The remark seemed so to affect my visitor that I suddenly
became conscious of a sense of loneliness.

"I don't wish to offend you," I said, "but I rather like to
keep the two separate. Aren't you man enough yet to see the
value of variety?"

But there was no answer. The lady had gone. It was evident
that she considered me unworthy of further attention.




V

THE EDITING OF XANTHIPPE




After my interview with Xanthippe, I hesitated to approach the
type-writer for a week or two. It did a great deal of clicking
after the midnight hour had struck, and I was consumed with
curiosity to know what was going on, but I did not wish to meet
Mrs. Socrates again, so I held aloof until Boswell should have
served his sentence. I was no longer afraid of the woman, but I
do fear the good fellow of the weaker sex, and I deemed it just
as well to keep out of any and all disputes that might arise
from a casual conversation with a creature of that sort. An
agreement with a real good fellow, even when it ends in a row,
is more or less diverting; but a disputation with a female
good fellow places a man at a disadvantage. The argumentum ad
hominem is not an easy thing with men, but with women it is
impossible. Hence, I let the type-writer click and ring for
a fortnight.

Finally, to my relief, I recognized Boswell's touch upon the
keys and sauntered up to the side of the machine.

"Is this Boswell--Jim Boswell?" I inquired.

"All that's left of him," was the answer. "How have you been?"

"Very well," said I. And then it seemed to me that tact
required that I should not seem to know that he had been in
the superheated jail of the Stygian country. So I observed,
"You've been off on a vacation, eh?"

"How do you know that?" was the immediate response.

"Well," I put in, "you've been absent for a fortnight, and
you look more or less--ah--burned."

"Yes, I am," replied the deceitful editor. "Very much burned,
in fact. I've been--er--I've been playing golf with a friend
down in Cimmeria."

"I envy you," I observed, with an inward chuckle.

"You wouldn't if you knew the links," replied Boswell,
sadly. "They're awfully hard. I don't know any harder course
than the Cimmerian."

And then I became conscious of a mistrustful gaze fastened
upon me.

"See here," clicked the machine. "I thought I was invisible
to you? If so, how do you know I look burned?"

I was cornered, and there was only one way out of it, and that
was by telling the truth. "Well, you are invisible, old chap,"
I said. "The fact is, I've been told of your trouble, and I
know what you have undergone."

"And who told you?" queried Boswell.

"Your successor on the Gazette, Madame Socrates, nee Xanthippe,"
I replied.

"Oh, that woman--that woman!" moaned Boswell, through the
medium of the keys. "Has she been here, using this machine
too? Why didn't you stop her before she ruined me completely?"

"Ruined you?" I cried.

"Well, next thing to it," replied Boswell. "She's run my paper
so far into the ground that it will take an almighty powerful
grip to pull it out again. Why, my dear boy, when I went to--to
the ovens, I had a circulation of a million, and when I came
back that woman had brought it down to eight copies, seven of
which have already been returned. All in ten days, too."

"How do you account for it?" I asked.

"'Side Talks with Men' helped, and 'The Man's Corner' did
a little, but the editorial page did the most of it. It was
given over wholly to the advancement of certain Xanthippian
ideas, which were very offensive to my women readers, and
which found no favor among the men. She wants to change the
whole social structure. She thinks men and women are the same
kind of animal, and that both need to be educated on precisely
the same lines--the girls to be taught business, the boys
to go through a course of domestic training. She called for
subscriptions for a cooking-school for boys, and demanded the
endowment of a commercial college for girls, and wound up by
insisting upon a uniform dress for both sexes. I tell you,
if you'd worked for years to establish a dignified newspaper
the way I have, it would have broken your heart to see the
suggested fashion-plates that woman printed. The uniform dress
was a holy terror. It was a combination of all the worst
features of modern garb. Trousers were to be universal and
compulsory; sensible masculine coats were discarded entirely,
and puffed-sleeved dress-coats were substituted. Stiff collars
were abolished in favor of ribbons, and rosettes cropped up
everywhere. Imagine it if you can--and everybody in all Hades
was to be forced into garments of that sort!"

"I should enjoy seeing it," I said.

"Possibly--but you wouldn't enjoy wearing it," retorted
the machine. "And then that woman's funny column--it was
frightful. You never saw such jokes in your life; every one
of them contained a covert attack upon man. There was only
one good thing in it, and that was a bit of verse called
'Fair Play for the Little Girls.' It went like this:

    "'If little boys, when they are young,
        Can go about in skirts,
    And wear upon their little backs
        Small broidered girlish shirts,
    Pray why cannot the little girls,
        When infants, have a chance
    To toddle on their little ways
        In little pairs of pants?'"


"That isn't at all bad," said I, smiling in spite of poor
Boswell's woe. "If the rest of the paper was on a par with
that I don't see why the circulation fell off."

"Well, she took liberties, that's all," said Boswell. "For
instance, in her 'Side Talks with Men' she had something
like this: 'Napoleon--It is rather difficult to say just
what you can do with your last season's cocked-hat. If you
were to purchase five yards of one-inch blue ribbon, cut it
into three strips of equal length, and fasten one end to each
of the three corners of the hat, tying the other ends into a
choux, it would make a very acceptable work-basket to send to
your grandmother at Christmas.' Now Napoleon never asked that
woman for advice on the subject. Then there was an answer to
a purely fictitious inquiry from Solomon which read: 'It all
depends on local custom. In Salt Lake City, and in London at
the time of Henry the Eighth, it was not considered necessary
to be off with the old love before being on with the new, but
latterly the growth of monopolistic ideas tends towards the
uniform rate of one at a time.' A purely gratuitous fling, that
was, at one of my most eminent patrons, or rather two of them,
for latterly both Solomon and Henry the Eighth have yielded to
the tendency of the times and gone into business, which they
have paid me well to advertise. Solomon has established an
'Information Bureau,' where advice can always be had from the
'Wise-man,' as he calls himself, on payment of a small fee;
while Henry, taking advantage of his superior equipment over
any English king that ever lived, has founded and liberally
advertised his 'Chaperon Company (Limited).' It's a great
thing even in Hades for young people to be chaperoned by an
English queen, and Henry has been smart enough to see it, and
having seven or eight queens, all in good standing, he has been
doing a great business. Just look at it from a business point
of view. There are seven nights in every week, and something
going on somewhere all the time, and queens in demand. With a
queen quoted so low as $100 a night, Henry can make nearly $5000
a week, or $260,000 a year, out of evening chaperonage alone;
and when, in addition to this, yachting-parties up the Styx and
slumming-parties throughout the country are being constantly
given, the man's opportunity to make half a million a year is
in plain sight. I'm told that he netted over $500,000 last
year; and of course he had to advertise to get it, and this
Xanthippe woman goes out of her way to get in a nasty little
fling at one of my mainstays for his matrimonial propensities."

"Failing utterly to see," said I, "that, in marrying so many
times, Henry really paid a compliment to her sex which is
without parallel in royal circles."

"Well, nearly so," said Boswell. "There have been other kings
who were quite as complimentary to the ladies, but Henry was
the only man among them who insisted on marrying them all."

"True," said I. "Henry was eminently proper--but then he had
to be."

"Yes," said Boswell, with a meditative tap on the letter
Y. "Yes--he had to be. He was the head of the Church,
you know."

"I know it," I put in. "I've always had a great deal of sympathy
for Henry. He has been very much misjudged by posterity. He
was the father of the really first new woman, Elizabeth,
and his other daughter, Mary, was such a vindictive person."

"You are a very fair man, for an American," said Boswell. "Not
only fair, but rare. You think about things."

"I try to," said I, modestly. "And I've really thought a great
deal about Henry, and I've truly seen a valid reason for his
continuous matrimonial performances. He set himself up against
the Pope, and he had to be consistent in his antagonism."

"He did, indeed," said Boswell. "A religious discussion is a
hard one."

"And Henry was consistent in his opposition," said I. "He
didn't yield a jot on any point, and while a great many
people criticise him on the score of his wives--particularly
on their number--I feel that I have in very truth discovered
his principle."

"Which was?" queried Boswell.

"That the Pope was wrong in all things," said I.

"So he said," commented Boswell.

"And being wrong in all things, celibacy was wrong," said I.

"Exactly," ejaculated Boswell.

"Well, then," said I, "if celibacy is wrong, the surest way
to protest against it is to marry as many times as you can."

"By Jove!" said Boswell, tapping the keys yearningly, as
though he wished he might spare his hand to shake mine,
"you are a man after my own heart."

"Thanks, old chap," said I, reaching out my hand and shaking
it in the air with my visionary friend--"thanks. I've studied
these things with some care, and I've tried to find a reason for
everything in life as I know it. I have always regarded Henry as
a moral man--as is natural, since in spite of all you can say
he is the real head of the English Church. He wasn't willing
to be married a second or a seventh time unless he was really
a widower. He wasn't as long in taking notice again as some
modern widowers that I have met, but I do not criticise him on
that score. I merely attribute his record to his kingly nature,
which involves necessarily a quickness of decision and a decided
perception of the necessities which is sadly lacking in people
who are born to a lesser station in life. England demanded a
queen, and he invariably met the demand, which shows that he
knew something of political economy as well as of matrimony; and
as I see it, being an American, a man needs to know something of
political economy to be a good ruler. So many of our statesmen
have acquired a merely kindergarten knowledge of the science,
that we have had many object-lessons of the disadvantages of
a merely elementary knowledge of the subject. To come right
down to it, I am a great admirer of Henry. At any rate, he
had the courage of his heart-convictions."

"You really surprise me," tapped Boswell. "I never expected
to find an American so thoroughly in sympathy with kings and
their needs."

"Oh, as for that," said I, "in America we are all kings and we
are not without our needs, matrimonial and otherwise, only our
courts are not quite so expeditious as Henry's little axe. But
what was Henry's attitude towards this extraordinary flight
of Xanthippe's?"

"Wrath," said Boswell. "He was very much enraged, and withdrew
his advertisements, declined to give our society reporters
the usual accounts of the functions his wives chaperoned,
and, worst of all, has withdrawn himself and induced others
to withdraw from the symposium I was preparing for my special
Summer Girls' issue, which is to appear in August, on 'How
Men Propose.' He and Brigham Young and Solomon and Bonaparte
had agreed to dictate graphic accounts of how they had done
it on various occasions, and Queen Elizabeth, who probably
had more proposals to the square minute that any other woman
on record, was to write the introduction. This little plan,
which was really the idea of genius, is entirely shattered by
Mrs. Socrates's infernal interference."

"Nonsense," said I. "Don't despair. Why don't you come out
with a plain statement of the facts? Apologize."

"You forget, my dear sir," interposed Boswell, "that one of
the fundamental principles of Hades as an institution is that
excuses don't count. It isn't a place for repentance so much
as for expiation, and I might apologize nine times a minute
for forty years and would still have to suffer the penalty
of the offence. No, there is nothing to be done but to begin
my newspaper work again, build up again the institution that
Xanthippe has destroyed, and bear my misfortunes like a true
spirit."

"Spoken like a philosopher!" I cried. "And if I can help you,
my dear Boswell, count upon me. In anything you may do, whether
you start a monthly magazine, a sporting weekly, or a purely
American Sunday newspaper, you are welcome to anything I can
do for you."

"You are very kind," returned Boswell, appreciatively, "and if I
need your services I shall be glad to avail myself of them. Just
at present, however, my plans are so fully prepared that I do
not think I shall have to call upon you. With Sherlock Holmes
engaged to write twelve new detective stories; Poe to look
after my tales of horror; D'Artagnan dictating his personal
memoirs; Lucretia Borgia running my Girls' Department; and
others too numerous to mention, I have a sufficient supply of
stuff to fill up; but if you feel like writing a few poems for
me I may be able to use them as fillers, and they may help to
make your name so well known in Hades that next year I shall
be able to print a Worldly Letter from you every week with a
good chance of its proving popular."

And with this promise Boswell left me to get out the first
number of The Cimmerian: a Sunday Magazine for all. Taking
him at his word, I sent him the following poem a few days later:


    LOCALITY

    Whither do we drift,
    Insensate souls, whose every breath
    Foretells the doom of nothingness?
    Yet onward, upward let it be
    Through all the myriad circles
    Of the ensuing years--
    And then, pray what?
    Alas! 'tis all, and never shall be stated.
    Atoms, yet atomless we drift,
    But whitherward?


I had intended this for one of our leading magazines, but it
seemed so to lack the mystical quality, which is essential
to a successful magazine poem in our sphere, that I deemed it
best to try it on Boswell.




VI

THE BOSWELL TOURS: PERSONALLY CONDUCTED




It was and will no doubt be considered, even by those who
are not too friendly towards myself, a daring idea, and it
was all my own. One night, several weeks after the interview
with Boswell just narrated, the idea came to me simultaneously
with the first tapping of the keys for the evening upon the
Enchanted Type-Writer. It was Boswell's touch that summoned
me from my divan. My family were on the eve of departure for
a month's rest from care and play in the mountains, and I was
looking forward to a period of very great loneliness. But as
Boswell materialized and began his work upon the machine, the
great idea flashed across my mind, and I resolved to "play it"
for all it was worth.

"Jim," said I, as I approached the vacant chair in which he
sat--for by this time the great biographer and I had got upon
terms of familiarity--"Jim," said I, "I've got a very gloomy
prospect ahead of me."

"Well, why not?" he tapped off. "Where do you expect to have
your gloomy prospects? They can't very well be behind 