iturgy, and their angry invective
provoked the House of Commons to greater impatience at the delay in its
restoration. Clarendon recognized the old and ever-present fact that it
was easier to preserve an old form, with all its possible defects, than to
devise a new one with the view of reconciling irreconcilable divergences.
He had to remember also that besides the Presbyterians there was the
strong phalanx of the Independents, who would rather see episcopacy
flourish than that the Presbyterians should govern.

Clarendon was not unwilling that a calm and rational spirit of concession
should prevail, and that non-essential usages should be modified to meet
conscientious scruples. In the abstract this ought to have been possible;
but as things stood it was a hopeless ideal. He had to take account of the
angry exasperation of temper that prevailed; and for the general weal he
felt that some settlement, however peremptory, was essential. However
unwillingly, he was compelled to decide for the drastic exercise of
authority which might, once for all, compose the strife and produce a
settlement. Expedition was of the first importance in the business.

It was in this spirit that the speech of the King to Parliament was
framed. He had hoped, said the King, that the composing of differences in
regard to non-essentials might have already been obtained. He was grieved
at the delay. The Book of Common Prayer was now to be presented to him by
Convocation. It would thereafter be laid before the House of Lords; and
upon that foundation he trusted that an Act of Uniformity might be based.

As approved by Convocation, with certain alterations which rather
strengthened than diminished the force of the ecclesiastical authority,
the Book of Common Prayer was presented to the House of Lords. The Earl of
Northumberland, whose Presbyterian leanings were pronounced, suggested
that no change whatever should be made, and that the Act of Uniformity of
Elizabeth's reign should once more be the authority for its observance.
But the time for that was too late. Convocation had already done its work,
and that work could not be disregarded. The legal authority had given its
pronouncement; it remained only to say how that pronouncement should be
enforced. In this spirit the House of Lords entered upon the discussion of
the Bill of Uniformity.

The first question of importance was the imposition of episcopal
ordination as a necessary condition of the tenure of any ecclesiastical
office. That was decided in the affirmative; and the requisition of assent
as well as consent to all contained in the Book of Common Prayer was
carried against the resistance of those who, on behalf of the
Nonconformists, argued that "assent" implied a more complete approbation
than mere "consent." When the Bill had passed the House of Lords and was
sent to the Commons, it soon appeared that the Church party there was
determined to increase its severity. "Every man," says Clarendon,
"according to his passion, thought of adding something to it that might
make it more grievous to somebody whom he did not love." However earnest
was Clarendon's loyalty to the Church, these words give evidence enough of
the vexation of the Statesman at the unmeasured bitterness of
ecclesiastical partizanship.

A new and rigid subscription, abjuring the lawfulness of resistance and
the Solemn League and Covenant, was imposed upon every holder of a
benefice, or of an office in a University. This created bitter opposition
when the Bill was sent back to the Lords, and the discussion mainly turned
upon the express repudiation of the Covenant, to which many laymen had
already sworn. These, while they consented to its being laid aside for the
future, were by no means ready to repudiate all the principles which it
embodied. The Covenant still represented the charter of Presbyterianism,
and to inflict a needless insult upon tenets conscientiously held by many
who had given powerful aid towards the King's restoration, seemed a
needless perpetuation of bitter memories. But the Lords could not refuse
their assent, and this new instrument of exclusion was added to the Bill
substantially in the form desired by the ultra-Royalists of the House of
Commons.

In this form the Bill received the royal assent on the day when Parliament
was adjourned, May 19th. No long delay was to occur before the axe of
authority fell, and the penalty of any divergence from the uniform
discipline of the Church was to take effect forthwith. On August 24th, St.
Bartholomew's Day--of evil omen--all incumbents who declined to accept and
conform to the whole contents of the Book of Common Prayer were, _ipso
facto_, with no further legal process, to be deprived of their
benefices, and the patrons were to present others in their place.

Clarendon was too sober in his judgment, and had too much of the statesman
in his composition, to welcome the rigid terms which the triumphant
Churchmen were determined to exact. He was not one of those who thought a
victory was confirmed by an arrogant disregard of the claims of the
vanquished. Had he been able to shape the terms of the Act according to
his own ideas of policy and prudence, he would undoubtedly have imposed
checks upon the ambition of the fiery spirits of his party. But we must
remember his position and his sympathies. The double object of all his
long struggles had been to establish in all its dignity the constitutional
monarchy, and to restore the Church to its rights and privileges. It was
not for him to fight too hard against the full assertion of these rights.
We must remember, too, that his own inclination towards moderation came
from policy and prudence, and not from any sympathy with the vanquished,
or any conviction that the measure meted out to them was in any whit more
severe than that which they had exacted in their day of triumph, and would
readily have reinforced were it again in their power to do so. Above all,
Clarendon saw that in the hard task which lay before him in re-
establishing a settled Government, the first essential was the ending of
weary struggles, and the settling of doubtful contentions. Any settlement
was better than perpetual controversy. It was a smaller matter to adjust
the balance according to an ideal of just and politic moderation, than to
comply with the imperious maxim, "that it is for the advantage of the
State that there be an end of litigation."

That there should be an outburst of anger from those who believed
themselves to be martyrs was only to be expected. The Declaration of
Breda, it was said, had been flagrantly violated. The answer was perfectly
easy. The King had referred the religious settlement to Parliament, and
had promised that meanwhile there should be no interference with liberty
of conscience. It is noteworthy that Clarendon rests the case upon this
plea--that the Crown must act subject to a Parliamentary decision. So far
as it goes it is an adequate defence. But there remains the far stronger
argument that liberty of conscience was a very different thing from a
pledge that those who refused to accept the principles of the Church
should have a right to hold her benefices and dictate her policy. That
would have meant, not toleration of, but surrender to, the divergent
forces.

But the outburst of anger on the part of a defeated faction had serious
effects on the action of Charles II. Now, as often before, his Chancellor
had to lament that "he was too irresolute, and apt to be shaken in those
counsels which, with the greatest deliberation, he had concluded."
Concessions might be right or wrong; but once a policy was decided,
concessions wrung from the weakness of a vacillating and indolent nature
were fatal. Anything that love of ease did not accomplish, the flattery of
the defeated Nonconformists achieved. The King was their only hope; in his
mercy they looked for a recompense for that loyalty which was none the
less sincere because they shrank from straining their consciences by
compliance with minute points of order and of discipline. At least, let
three months pass before the blow fell that was to strip them of their
livelihood and separate them from their flocks. Such an act of mercy would
vindicate the royal prerogative. Whether the King "thought it would do
them no good," in other words, that he was giving a worthless concession,
or that he thought the delay "no prejudice to the Church," or, as was more
likely, that it would rid him of painful importunity, the desired promise
was given. That it proceeded from any inclination to the Roman Catholic
faith, and any hope that, by its means, easier terms might be obtained for
that faith, was a supposition that Clarendon would have deemed derogatory
to the King's honesty. Clarendon would gladly have seen terms more
merciful granted by the Act of Uniformity. But once the Bill was passed he
saw how fatal vacillation was, and would fain have persuaded his master
against it. But the promise had been given; and once again he had to
remind that master that it was for his honour that a promise given should
be redeemed. Such a position was no unusual experience to any one who
served Charles II. "It was no new thing to the Chancellor to be reproached
for opposing the resolving to do such or such a thing, and then to be
reproached again for pursuing the resolution."

A new conference was hastily summoned at Hampton Court. Archbishop Juxon,
Sheldon and Duppa were to represent the Church, while the Chancellor,
Monk, and Ormonde, with the Secretaries Nicholas and Morrice, were there
as lay politicians, and the Chief Justice Bridgeman, with the Attorney
General, were to advise as to the law. The Bishops did not conceal their
vexation, and resolutely demanded "to be excused for not conniving at any
breach of the law." Clarendon attempted to maintain the pledge given by
the King, as but a small matter, which could not harm the Church. But the
opinion of the lawyers was clear and decided. The King had no power to
suspend the law, nor to interfere with the rights of patrons. Once more
that vacillating temper yielded. The poor fragment of the royal honour
which Clarendon would fain have saved had to be abandoned. The Church had
to resent a threatened danger; the Nonconformists were embittered by the
overclouding of those hopes on which they had been taught to rely. The
only effect of Clarendon's enforced interference was to involve him in the
hatred of the dissenters, and in the suspicions of the Bishops and the
Churchmen.

The blow fell on St. Bartholomew's Day; and on August 24th the Church saw
her full triumph, when the nonconforming ministers, to the number, it was
said, of some two thousand, were ejected from their livings. [Footnote:
The number was variously reckoned; a more moderate computation was 1200.
Mr. Bates's careful calculations (_Declaration of Indulgence_, Appendix
II.) give 450 as the number of ministers ejected between May, 1660, and
August, 1662, and 1800 as ejected on the latter date.] The triumph was
bought at the price of establishing a solid, permanent, and increasing
body of irreconcilable foes. The Church was entrenched in a position
rendered impregnable by law, which secured her even against the power of
the Crown. But the forces of nonconformity were consolidated, and
gradually gathered to themselves a mass of political adherents, and
equipped themselves with a whole armoury of political weapons. The Act of
Uniformity did much more than settle the terms between the Church and
Nonconformity. It shaped the course of the two parties which, gradually
diverging farther and farther, were to divide the nation into two camps.

Charles still sought to secure his own ease by efforts after conciliation
--some of them more questionable in law, and more insidious in their
motives, even than his ill-considered promises to the Nonconformist
ministers. To what lengths his own Roman Catholic sympathies went it is
difficult to say. But there were many influences at Court which were
working for the abandonment of the penal laws against the Catholics.
Bristol was restless in this matter, to which personal ambition and his
growing jealousy of Clarendon stimulated him, much more than any religious
zeal. Concessions granted by royal prerogative would mean new force for
that prerogative; it would bring with it the increase of personal
influence at the expense of the law; it seemed to promise the conciliation
of new adherents; and it certainly involved the weakening of the orthodox
Churchman as well as the Nonconformist. Before the end of this year, 1662,
Charles issued a Declaration, purporting to dispense with the more severe
laws against the Roman Catholics. It was contrived by a little clique of
courtiers opposed to Clarendon, and of their gradual rise to influence we
shall presently see more. It was intended as a means of consolidating
their hold upon the King, and of increasing the number of their own
adherents. It soon became clear that the Declaration assumed a dispensing
power for the royal prerogative, which the nation would repudiate, and
which even the House of Commons, with all its effusive loyalty, would not
confirm. In that Declaration, published on December 6th, the King
expressly confirmed the Act of Uniformity and stated his own intention of
maintaining it. He defended himself against the charge that in that Act he
had violated the Declaration of Breda. It was intended to provide for the
discipline and government of the Church; but there still remained for
consideration what concessions should be made for tender consciences in
view of the severe penal laws; and he announced that he would ask the
concurrence of Parliament to an Act which would allow him "to exercise
with a more universal satisfaction that power of dispensing which he
conceived to be inherent in him." But the Declaration was careful to add
that no tightening of the most severe of the penal laws was to be
construed as an intention of permitting equal toleration to all religions.

Clarendon was laid aside by illness when this Declaration was concocted
and published, and although those who planned it endeavoured to make out
that he had been an assenting party, his own words give a direct denial to
this.

When, in the spring of 1663, Charles attempted to give legislative effect
to this Declaration by a Bill introduced by Lord Robartes and Lord Ashley
into the House of Lords, he very quickly found out that the temper of the
nation was in no compliant mood, and that there were marked limits to the
submissive loyalty of the Commons. That House was not patient enough to
wait for the Bill to be sent to it. A committee was at once appointed, and
pronounced in no measured terms against any such scheme. It was
inconsistent with the laws of England; it would endanger the peace of the
kingdom; it would expose the King to the restless importunity of every
sect; and it would "establish schism by law." The House of Lords acted in
the same temper. Clarendon was joined in his opposition by Southampton and
the Bishops, who thus fulfilled the part which Bristol had prophesied for
them, of stalwart opponents of Catholic concessions. The Chancellor would
not have been unwilling to see some sort of toleration. But his duty and
his policy in this matter were clear. To have proceeded with the Bill
would have strained to breaking point the loyalty of the Commons and of
the nation. Toleration, to have any good effect, must be the voluntary
work of Parliament, and not the contrivance of a Court clique. But
Clarendon was under no mistake as to the odium he incurred with that
clique, or as to the irritation which his conduct must arouse in the mind
of the King, his master.




CHAPTER XX

DOMESTIC DISSENSION AND FOREIGN COMPLICATIONS


The difficulties with which Clarendon had to deal in settling the affairs
of the Church were, in essence, inevitable. Each side was struggling for
very life. They had, to inspire them, not only profoundly hostile
convictions, but the memory of years of angry strife and alternate
persecution. But these difficulties were aggravated by the intrigues at
Court, by the shiftless vacillation of the King, and by the underlying
suspicion, which perhaps haunted Clarendon more than he admitted to
himself with respect to the King, that concession might pave the way for
indulgence to the Roman Catholics, to which the nation at large was
profoundly opposed. His position was complicated by the perpetual
bickerings of selfish factions, and by ignoble broils within the palace,
in which he was compelled to interfere.

It was in June, 1661, that the marriage treaty was signed. As might have
been expected, long delays supervened. Lord Sandwich was despatched with a
fleet to take over Tangier, and on his return voyage to escort the
Princess to England. But that was a matter which did not proceed without
interruption. There was a considerable body of opinion in Portugal which
regarded with profound dislike the abandonment of a position so important.
The Queen-Mother of Portugal was anxious to implement her agreement, but,
in order to do so, she had to dispatch a Governor who was pledged to carry
out the evacuation. Only a few days before Sandwich arrived, that Governor
suffered defeat at the hands of the Moors, and was placed in a position of
serious danger. The arrival of Sandwich was timely. He was able to secure
the place against the attacks of the Moors, and to escort the Portuguese
troops back to their own country, where they were the objects of popular
indignation. All this took time; and it was not till March, 1662, that
Sandwich arrived at Lisbon, to escort the Princess Catherine to England,
along with the stipulated dowry of £500,000. The Queen-Mother of Portugal
was anxious, in this respect also, to meet the terms of the treaty; but it
was not easy for her to do so. The Portuguese Court could raise only a
moiety of the dowry, and even that consisted in large part of merchandise
and jewels of doubtful value. There were difficulties in handing over
Bombay; and the further conditions--as to free rights of trading in the
East Indies and Brazil--could only slowly be made effectual. Those who had
intrigued against the marriage found in these delays just the opportunity
they desired. The reports which reached England were not all favourable to
the new Queen; and the alliance was by no means so popular as it had been
a year before. All this told against Clarendon, to whom was imputed a far
greater responsibility for the arrangement than was actually his, and who
had been forced to support it, in its later stages, largely in order to
counteract the intrigues of Bristol and the Spanish ambassador.

It was on May 20th, 1662, that the Princess arrived at Portsmouth, where
the King met her, and where the marriage ceremony took place. His first
impression seems to have been fairly good, if we are to believe that a
bridegroom would write full confidences to his Chancellor.

"If I have any skill in physiognomy, which I think I have," he writes to
Clarendon, "she must be as good a woman as ever was born." "I cannot
easily tell you," he writes again; "how happy I think myself; I must be
the worst man living (which I think I am not) if I be not a good husband."
"Never two humours," he adds, "were better fitted together than ours are."

Unfortunately Charles's experiences had scarcely made him a judge of a
good woman, and his superficial good humour was but a flimsy foundation
for married happiness.

The royal couple came to Hampton Court; with happy omen, on May 29th; the
King's birthday; and the anniversary of his Restoration. The Court of
England; however, was scarcely a scene likely to be congenial to one who
had lived a sequestered life, amidst strictly religious surroundings, and
in the formal routine of elaborate ceremonial; nor was Charles, by
character, or by the experiences through which he had passed, disposed to
arrange his life according to the tastes of the devout bride whom policy
had selected for him. But Clarendon was prepared to hope much from the
King's natural good nature and kindliness; and, tempestuous as his life
had hitherto been, the Chancellor strove to do his duty, with more of
frankness, perhaps, than of tact, by reminding his master "of the infinite
obligations he had to God, and that He expected another kind of return
from him, in purity of mind and integrity of life." Charles listened to
these admonitions with a patience that was not altogether assumed, and
seems to have been not unwilling to find merits in his bride. But a
bridegroom that has to be schooled to his duty is hardly a promising
husband. Unfortunately the lesson of his Chancellor was soon forgotten.
There were not wanting those who found it to their advantage to
countermine Clarendon's efforts. At first things looked not unpromising
for the newly married pair. The Queen had "beauty and wit enough to make
herself very agreeable to him"--such are Clarendon's, perhaps too roseate,
words. The King's resolutions were good, and he seems to have promised
himself, if not a union of ardent affection, at least the satisfaction of
an innocent and fairly happy married life.

But selfish designs and untoward circumstances soon dispelled such slender
hopes as Clarendon persuaded himself to form. The licentiousness of the
Court had already gone too far. The King's boon companions were men who
founded their own hopes on breaking down any good resolutions that their
prince might form, and in bending his facile character to their own mould.
Religion was with them nothing else than an easy object of ribald jest and
ridicule; and virtue nothing but a fantastic restraint upon the natural
freedom of emancipated libertines. They could breathe only in the
atmosphere of degraded and corrupt vice; and it was by deliberately
flouting all the curbs of decency that they could best undermine the
Chancellor's power. The spur of ambition and the greed for gain both urged
them along the path towards which their craving for licentiousness also
pointed. A licentious Court would be that in which money would be most
freely squandered, and where sordid profits would be most plentiful. The
more the moral lessons of Clarendon were set aside, the more surely would
his authority be weakened, and his company become irksome to the King; the
more open would be the way for the baser crew to achieve influence and
wealth. Charles's mind was a soil on which such seeds could easily be
sown, and were like to yield an ample crop.

All this found powerful help from the lack of tact and perspicacity
amongst the numerous company whom the Queen had brought as her companions.
They were "the most improper," says Clarendon, "to promote that conformity
in the Queen that was necessary for her condition of future happiness."
"Conformity," on the Queen's part, is a word which, in all the
circumstances, has rather an ugly sound; and the art of tactful management
of the ladies of Court was not perhaps one in which Clarendon possessed
such mastery as qualified him for the office of critic. But at least he
saw the flagrant faults in these Portuguese duennas. The women were "old
and ugly and proud, incapable of any conversation with persons of quality
and a liberal education." It was their avowed object to perpetuate their
own influence with the Queen, and to prevent her from any conformity
either with the fashions or the language of England. They fancied that by
rigid adherence to the antique usages of their Court they would compel the
English aristocracy to adopt their manners. By their advice the Queen
would not even wear the English dresses which the King had provided for
his bride; and she received the ladies whom he placed in attendance on her
without grace or cordiality. This was precisely the conduct that made the
work of the profligates easy, that irritated the temper of the King, and
that undermined the work of Clarendon.

There was one figure at Court whose presence planted a deep seed of
resentment between Charles and his Queen. Lady Castlemaine had hitherto
been the prime favourite in the King's seraglio. She was none of the comic
actresses or flower girls from Covent Garden, whose lavishly distributed
favours had won the fancy of the King, or made him the complacent follower
of their former lovers. Barbara Villiers could rank high amongst the
ladies of the aristocracy, as the daughter of Lord Grandison, a Royalist
of unblemished reputation and lofty lineage, who had met his death in arms
for the King's father, and who had been one of Clarendon's most cherished
friends. Even the callous conscience of the King could not set aside the
wrong his passion had done to her and her husband, Mr. Palmer, who, to his
honour, felt the title of Lord Castlemaine, conferred upon him as the
price of infamy, to be an insult rather than a distinction, and, as long
as he could, declined to bear that name. It was an Irish earldom that was
granted as the price of his wife's degradation, that being chosen because
it was passed under the Irish Privy Seal, and so avoided the necessity of
consulting the English Chancellor. Charles felt--and perhaps rightly felt
--that to a mistress of that rank, and to her family, he must make some
amends; and he seems honestly to have intended--however we may guess that
his resolution would soon have yielded to his passion--to have secured for
her a dignified position at Court, while putting an end to his own guilty
intimacy with her. It was in this spirit that he presented "the Lady," as
she was generally called, to the Queen, whose lady-in-waiting he intended
that she should become. The Queen had already learned the story of the
intrigue, and had declared that she would never suffer the mistress's
presence at her Court: and as soon as she discovered the name of the newly
presented lady, she showed her sense of the indignity by bursting into
tears, and by retiring from the room. The racy scandal of a royal
disagreement was thus published to the Court, and Charles was speedily
confirmed in feeling that his own authority was concerned in dealing
firmly with an unseemly outburst of what he and his chosen companions
deemed to be unreasonable obstinacy. The usages of the French Court, and
the example of his own illustrious grandfather, Henry of Navarre, seemed
to justify his decision; and there were not wanting plenty of tongues
ready to suggest that he must be master in his own Court, and must
establish the principle that the title of King's mistress ought to be one
of honour and not of shame. Those who, like Clarendon, saw in that fashion
a degrading innovation in English manners, must be taught their error.

Bad blood was soon engendered between the English Court and the Portuguese
authorities. The Portuguese ambassador found himself involved in the
quarrel. The failure of Portugal, in various particulars, to carry out the
full stipulations of the treaty, however earnestly the Queen-Mother
laboured to do so, was now made matter of reproach. The King blamed the
unhappy envoy as responsible for the obstinacy of the consort whom his
Court had supplied; the Queen reproached him with his false reports of the
King's virtue and good nature, which she now discovered to be diplomatic
fancies. Between the two the poor man "thought it best to satisfy both by
dying": and a fever brought him to the brink of the grave, from which some
dawning hope of a reconciliation between the royal pair alone rescued him.
Diplomats and statesmen, whose plans were thwarted, and whose lives were
worried, by these connubial jars, might have been pardoned for lamenting
that the promiscuous amours of the King did not make him callous to
matrimonial bickerings.

Charles, for once moved to persevering efforts to attain his end, did not
abandon the hope of bringing the Queen to acquiesce in his decision by
gentle means. He laid aside the anger which her conduct had at first
aroused, and sought to cajole her into a better humour. He assured her
that his intimacy with "the Lady" had already ceased, and that the place
at Court which he proposed to assign to her would be the best guarantee
against its renewal. But all these attempts were in vain. The Queen
refused any compromise; and on his side the King, whose superficial good
humour was not incompatible with profound and pertinacious selfishness,
did not scruple to expose her to every insult at Court. He threw himself
with his usual cynicism into all the degraded pleasures of the libertine
crew of his choice companions; openly pursued his intimacy with Lady
Castlemaine, and taught his friends, as an easy means of access to his
favour, to flout the pretensions and the feelings of the Queen. "I wish,"
he wrote to Clarendon, "I may be unhappy in this world, and in the world
to come, if I fail in the least degree of what I have resolved, which is
of making my Lady Castlemaine of my wife's bed-chamber. I am resolved to
go through with this matter, let what will come of it: which again I
solemnly swear before Almighty God; therefore if you desire to have the
continuance of my friendship, meddle no more in this business, except it
be to bear down all false and scandalous reports, and to facilitate what,
I am sure, my honour is so much concerned in; and whosoever I find to be
my Lady Castlemaine's enemy in this matter, I do promise, upon my word, to
be his enemy as long as I live. You may show this letter to my Lord-
Lieutenant (Ormonde), and, if you have both a mind to oblige me, carry
yourselves like friends to me in this matter." [Footnote: Letters amongst
Lansdowne MSS. in British Museum. Printed by Lingard, and in Lister's
_Life of Clarendon_, iii. 202.]

Charles's easy humour cloaked an obstinacy as strong as that of any of his
race. Be the object perverse enough, it asserted itself, in his facile
character, with the pettishness to be found in a spoilt child. He knew
Clarendon's opinion of "the Lady," whose acquaintance the Chancellor
shunned, and to whom he had forbidden his wife to show any civilities. To
Clarendon's bitter annoyance, the King imposed on him of all men the
irksome duty of attempting an arrangement with the Queen. Clarendon had
already met the request, when first made, by sturdy remonstrance, and by a
powerful appeal to the King's sense of honour. It was only when no other
plan could be devised for composing the ugly business, that he felt it his
duty to remonstrate with the Queen. It was; he felt, "too delicate a
province for so plain-dealing a man." The caprice of fortune never laid
upon a man so proud as Clarendon, a task so irksome and so little to his
taste. Only the public interest involved forced him to breathe for a time
the stifling atmosphere, and mix himself in the nauseating topics, of the
royal matrimonial wranglings. Only the imperious need for suppressing a
scandal which might smother the new settlement, and the royal power, in
the mud of a sordid quarrel, bade him undertake a hateful duty. Honour
could not be saved; but disaster might perhaps be avoided.

Again and again he attempted to argue with the Queen. He assured her, with
such confidence as he might, of the King's promise to break the hated
connection. He held out hopes of a cordial agreement between them to be
gained by conceding what the King desired, at the expense of what
Clarendon admitted to be a natural repugnance. He explained to her the
authority which the King possessed, and hinted--we may guess with what
repugnance--at the usages of other Courts, where such scandals were
condoned. He was met, once and again, by passionate outbursts, to which
the Queen gave way, and which, he knew, would only provoke the resentment
of the King--the resentment of a nature, slow to be aroused, but once
aroused, relentless because of its very cynicism. At length the Chancellor
thought that he had prevailed, and the Queen professed her duty to her
husband. But with an ill-judged change of humour she chose this mistimed
moment for appearing unduly conciliatory to her rival, and thereby
diminished such respect as her resistance had gained, even from those whom
it provoked. Charles not unnaturally believed that the violence of an
indignation so quickly appeased had been due only to capricious obstinacy,
and to no strength of virtuous self-respect. His tyranny grew the greater
by her weakness. He dismissed all but one or two of her followers, and
left her friendless amidst an unfriendly Court. Clarendon worked in vain;
he had done what he could to save the situation, and now "made it his
humble suit to the King that he might be no more consulted with nor
employed in an affair in which he had been so unsuccessful." A semblance
of reconciliation, whatever that was worth, was somehow patched up. The
King no longer openly flouted his wife before the crowd of complaisant
courtiers. On her part she submitted to his will, and stooped to the
ignoble part assigned her in a profligate Court. She accepted, with
gratitude, such an occasional show of kindness, as from time to time made
the Court gossips surmise that a better understanding might come. For the
rest she sank into insignificance amidst such childish amusements as were
to fill up her life.

Praise and blame are alike out of place in regard to Clarendon's conduct
in the affair, and we may spare ourselves the tedious moralizings of his
critics. No one loathed more utterly than he the disgusting licentiousness
out of which the whole sordid story grew, and no one treated with more
contemptuous austerity the objects of the King's passion, and the pandars
to his vices. However high his own ideal of domestic virtue, Clarendon was
a man of the world, not blind to its vices, and not eager to pry into
scandals or pursue the secrets of private life. It was not only the vice
of Charles's courtiers, it was the sickening parade of debauchery in all
its nakedness, which seemed to him to make the Court unmanly and
contemptible. Feeling as he did, he had spoken words of bold remonstrance
to the King himself, although he was fully conscious how irksome his
moralizings were, and how easily they lent themselves to the gibes of
Charles's baser companions. Busy tongues carried to him tales of these
sneers--which were, indeed, scarcely concealed in his own presence, and
which were only too openly betrayed by the behaviour of the sycophantish
crew. He saw how fatal was the ruin caused by the flagitious obscenity of
the Court--sunk as it was far below the level of the free play of
licentious gallantry [Footnote: The more we become familiar with the
intimate records of the age, the more we recognize how little its
sickening degradation is described by any of the epithets usually applied
to the reign of the "merry monarch." Its filth was even more disgusting
than its vice, its obscenity than its licentiousness, and its unmanliness
than its profligacy. ]--and he knew well that this unseemly matrimonial
fracas proclaimed it to the world. He tried rebuke and remonstrance. When
these failed, he only did his duty in attempting--vainly, as it proved--a
compromise; and it was with disgust as well as weariness that he turned
away from the degrading and hopeless task of patching up the strife that
was undermining all his efforts at reconstruction. The Court which he
dreamed of restoring, chastened by adversity, enhanced in dignity, resting
upon a sound constitutional foundation, and fenced by a bulwark of stately
reverence, was now to be a byword amongst the people, as the home of
ignoble trifling, of bestial vice, of sordid intrigue, and of vulgarizing
domestic jars.

The little clique of his enemies comprised Bristol, that strange mixture
of contradictions--fantastic vanity and flightiness, tempered by subtle
wariness and vigorous intellectual strength; treachery and double-dealing,
redeemed by occasional gleams of romantic extravagance and enthusiastic
zeal; Buckingham, to whom all virtue was a natural object of antipathy,
and pre-eminence in profligacy his chief ambition; and Ashley, whose keen
intellect and cunning assumption of specious aims, were the instruments of
a boundless ambition, and were unchecked by any thought of principle, or
any scruple of consistency. They had as humbler tools, in their sordid
work, Sir Henry Bennet and Sir Charles Berkeley. All found in this sorry
affair, precisely the most favourable means of promoting the one aim which
held them together--the undermining of Clarendon's power. For this object
they were all alike prepared to support the pretensions, and flatter the
vanity, of the shameless and grasping courtesan, to ruin the happiness of
the wife, to degrade the honour, and send to slumber the scruples, of the
King, and to besmirch that Crown, which a flood of unselfish loyalty had
restored, only two years before, to the love and reverence of the nation.

But other matters, of larger public concern, had to be faced by Clarendon;
and in these, too, he was obstructed by the machinations of the same
unscrupulous clique.

We are apt to forget, in the engrossing incidents of our civil war, and
its sequel, the enormous changes that were in progress in the material
condition of the country, and the larger economic struggle that was being
waged between the Western European Powers in regard to the supremacy in
commercial undertakings, as developed by the colonial enterprise of the
time. Wars were to be carried on hereafter, not on the ground of dynastic
disputes or of religious differences, but in order to gain a firm footing
in the vastly increasing field of commercial operations. The sovereignty
of the seas was necessary to achieve that end, and it was this underlying
conviction that prompted the United Provinces to their struggle with the
English fleet--a struggle, the ultimate fate of which remained long
doubtful in view of the intense importance of the warring interests, and
the indomitable courage of the combatants on either side. Cromwell had
enormously developed the commercial supremacy of England by the Navigation
Act, which required that foreign goods should arrive in England only in
ships sailing under the English flag, or under the flag of the country in
which the commodities had their origin. This Act was renewed by the
Convention Parliament and confirmed by the Parliament of 1661, in its full
stringency of operation. It threatened the very foundation of the Dutch
naval and commercial supremacy, and planted a root of enmity between
England and the United Provinces, rendered permanent by the irreconcilable
opposition of material interests which grew up by the irresistible force
of circumstances. Other differences might be composed, but that resting on
the instinct of self-preservation could know no end. Statesmen had to
shape their policy--sometimes blindly enough--but always under the
pressure of this vigorous instinct of self-interest prevalent amongst the
trading classes of the country.

The wealth of France rendered her less susceptible to these feelings, and
her statesmen took less account of them; but to prove the unquestioned
power of her Crown, it became necessary for her to assert herself, like
her neighbours, at sea. Just before the Restoration, an insecure peace had
been patched up between France and Spain. But while France consented to
abandon her support of Portugal, she had no mind that Portugal should be
left at the mercy of Spain. It was her first business to contrive a
counterpoise to the power of Spain. But it was more difficult for France
to decide what should be her relation to England. She had cultivated an
alliance with Cromwell, and in order to consolidate that alliance, she had
treated the Royalist cause with contemptuous neglect. Neither on the part
of the people of England, nor on the part of its Court, was any close
connection with France desired. The old jealousies, bred of close
neighbourhood, could not be effaced. An alliance with Spain had seemed at
first more desirable.

But overtures from Charles for a Spanish marriage had been treated
somewhat cavalierly by the Spanish Court. This naturally prompted the
obvious alternative of a Portuguese marriage, and such a marriage offered
to France precisely the opportunity she desired. A marriage treaty between
England and Portugal seemed certain to secure for Portugal the support of
England in her struggle with Spain; and France welcomed the appearance of
an ally who might render to Portugal that help against Spain, which she
herself was precluded by treaty from openly offering. The King of England
had been encouraged to prosecute the treaty of marriage with Portugal by
assurance of French sympathy. Such sympathy would not, in itself, have
been a sufficient inducement. Other more powerful motives operated. "The
principal advantages we propose to ourself," wrote Charles to his envoy in
Portugal, "by this conjunction with Portugal, is the advancement of the
trade of this nation." These words were perfectly true, and the possession
of Tangier and Bombay, with equal trading rights in the East Indies and
Brazil, were real and substantial advantages to England. They were not
lessened by the fact that the alliance brought England and France, for a
time, to a better understanding.

But France had her own causes of jealousy, and it was necessary for
Clarendon to take all care that these should not drive her into the hands
of that chief enemy, with whom England must sooner or later come to deadly
grips-the Dutch Republic. Clarendon fully appreciated the great work of
Cromwell in making England feared in Europe, and he was anxious that she
should not, under the monarchy, suffer any abatement of the power which
Cromwell had so triumphantly established. But he knew also the inherent
weakness of the country at the moment, and her inability to sustain the
burden of a war. To Clarendon it was a matter of supreme and vital
importance that war should not come until her resources were consolidated.
Even at the cost of a crippling debt, her naval stores and arsenals were
equipped with careful industry. But Clarendon knew well that though
definite and detailed preparation of that kind might help her to meet a
sudden emergency, England was in no financial condition to maintain the
annual pressure of a long-continued war. France, alive to the
embarrassments of English Ministers, soon put forward new topics of
complaint, and pressed for redress as the price of her continued
friendliness. Disputes arose as to the respective rights of the fishing
fleets of each country, and acts of violence and privateering occurred on
both sides. France refused to comply with the custom that had prevailed
since it was conceded by Henry IV. to Elizabeth, which recognized
England's naval supremacy by prescribing that all other fleets should
salute the English flag. [Footnote: The following statement, which has
kindly been supplied to me, has high authority:--

"From the 14th to the 18th century the salute (at first by lowering the
topsail, and later by dipping the flag) was more or less jealously claimed
by English ships of war from all other ships, whether foreign men-of-war
or English or foreign merchantmen. While there was no nation strong enough
to resist the English claim (and this was especially the case while
England held possessions on both sides of the Channel) the salute was
pretty generally accorded, and it was not until the 17th century that any
serious resistance was made. During almost the whole of that century an
acute controversy raged about the meaning and the scope of the Sovereignty
of the Seas. The English case was bolstered up by doubtful documents, such
as an alleged Ordinance of King John, said to have been issued at Hastings
in 1200, but now acknowledged to be a forgery.

In 1635, Selden published his 'Mare Clausum' in support of the English
claim. Apparently he was moved to this by the publication by Grotius in
1633 of 'Mare Liberum,' though the latter was more directly aimed at the
monopoly claimed by the Portuguese in the East Indies. Probably
Selden wrote with his tongue in his cheek to please Charles I., for he is
said to have made ridicule of his own book in private conversation.

The English, however, were not content to enforce their claim by words,
but often during the 16th and 17th centuries enforced it by cannon shot.

The arrogant claim that any vessel (a yacht for instance) bearing the
Union flag must be saluted by foreign ships, and even by a foreign fleet
of men-of-war, was much resented by the Dutch after they had crushed
Spain, and was one of the causes that led to the outbreak of the First
Dutch War (1652-4) though commercial jealousy was the prime cause.

The first battle (Dover, May, 1652) was occasioned by Tromp flaunting his
flag in the face of Blake.

This war turned out, on the whole, sufficiently favourable to the English
to enable them to secure a clause in the Treaty of peace in 1654--

'That the ships and vessels of the United Provinces, as well those fitted
for war as others, meeting any Ship of War of the said Commonwealth in the
British Seas, shall strike their Flag, and lower their Topsail in such
manner as had been any time before practised under any Government.'

Similar clauses occur in the Treaty of Westminster, 1662, and that of
Breda (which ended the Second Dutch War), 1667. The Treaty closing the
Third Dutch War (Westminster, 1673) has a similar article, but the seas
are defined.

During the 18th century the claim does not seem to have been often
enforced, and by the time of the Peace of Amiens, 1803, when the ancient
claim to the Sovereignty of France was formally abandoned, the claim to
the salute had become extinct."] The traditional, but none the less
galling, assumption of the titular sovereignty and arms of France, by the
English King, was another cause of emphatic complaint. The French Court
knew enough of England's financial weakness, to judge the moment
propitious for pressing these subjects of dispute. Clarendon thought it
well, to begin, at least, by assuming an independent and combative tone.
He strove, under the compulsion to which many a diplomat has had to yield,
to cover his weakness by proud words, and he managed to provoke Louis XIV.
to angry remonstrances, and even to threats of war. It was to Clarendon
personally that the French King ascribed the supercilious tone of the
English demands, and it was his compliance that Louis and his Ministers
chiefly sought to gain. The Powers abroad knew what Clarendon's work for
the exiled Court had been. They could estimate the value of his
statesmanship, and dreaded him as England's most efficacious Minister. But
they attributed to him a power which, hampered as he was, was never truly
his. Clarendon was in truth attempting an impossible task, and he fought
with fettered hands. He could expect no support from the King, who was
already allured by the prospects of financial assistance, skilfully held
out by Louis. It was hard to maintain a proud defiance amidst the
perplexities of divided counsels, of selfish intrigues, and of a bankrupt
exchequer. He had to temporize as to the King's title, and to accept the
abrogation of the token of respect to England's supremacy upon the seas.
The imperious tone was one which no Minister of Charles II. could longer
safely assume.

Another far more substantial concession to French demands soon after came
up for discussion.

It was a striking tribute to Cromwell's influence abroad that the sea-port
of Dunkirk, when conquered by the allied Powers, had, according to treaty,
been handed over to the keeping of the English Commonwealth. It was not
the only important possession which the restored King of England owed to
the prowess of the rebels by whom he had been exiled, and to whose
conquests he was now the heir. As to its value there were doubts. Although
it had been a troublesome hive of privateers, the place was reckoned not
to be really of much strategical importance, and the naval experts had
already expressed doubts whether its value was equivalent to the expense
which it involved. The revenue of England was sorely crippled, and the
possession of Dunkirk not only involved heavy expenditure, but was a very
probable source of expensive warlike complications. It was from Lord
Southampton, who, as Treasurer, felt the financial burden most, that the
first suggestion of parting with it came. The exchequer was in ill state
to stand further drains, and Tangier and Bombay, however beneficial their
possession might ultimately become, were now nothing but sources of heavy
expense. Southampton imparted his misgivings to the King, and sought for
some device by which he might shift some part of the constantly growing
expenditure. Could Dunkirk not be handed over as a _damnosa hereditas?_
The naval experts were consulted, and were ready not only to acquiesce,
but to avow their opinion that Dunkirk offered no advantages equivalent to
its cost, which was reckoned at not less than a hundred and twenty
thousand a year. Southampton told the Chancellor of his difficulties, and
propounded to him the scheme for lightening them; but found Clarendon so
averse to a proposal for parting with any naval stronghold, that even the
entire confidence bred of their old friendship did not tempt the Treasurer
to reopen a subject so distasteful until some definite proposal could be
framed. The General (Albemarle) and he laid it before the King so
urgently, that Charles was attracted by a scheme which offered the
tempting bait of financial provision, and at length it was formally
brought before that secret and select Council which consulted upon all
matters of prime importance. It could no longer be kept from the
Chancellor; and Clarendon's illness made it necessary on this, as on many
other occasions, to summon the Council to his sickroom, where, besides the
King and the Duke of York, the Chancellor and the Treasurer, with
Albemarle, Sandwich, Sir George Carteret, and the two secretaries of
State, were present. Southampton knew the opposition he had to expect from
Clarendon, and playfully asked the King, when he entered the room, "to
take the Chancellor's staff from him, otherwise he would break his
Treasurer's head." Charles told Clarendon that the business to be debated
was one which he knew that Clarendon would oppose; but when he had heard
the arguments, he thought they would change his view. Steps had evidently
been taken with care to prepare the ground and marshall the arguments. The
naval and military experts explained the small strategical value of the
place, its ineffectiveness as a naval base, and the deficiencies of its
land defences. Against such arguments Clarendon was, of course, powerless;
and it was equally impossible for him to argue away the heavy burden on a
crippled treasury, of which the Treasurer begged to be relieved. To hold
the place longer was only too likely to involve a costly war with one or
both of the Powers of France and Spain, and it was a source of irritation
to the United Provinces as well. Not only were the arguments strong, but
the Chancellor was soon convinced that he had not been consulted until
those who desired to effect a profitable bargain had already gained the
determined adherence of the King. It was no part of Clarendon's practice
to argue in the face of impossibilities. Little remained for him or any
other Minister but to decide with which Power it was possible to strike
the best bargain, and which it was most expedient to conciliate.

There are some variations between the various accounts that have reached
us as to the first author of the suggestion. Sandwich, in a conversation
with Pepys, [Footnote: In February, 1666.] averred that he himself was the
first adviser, and this account is partially confirmed by what Sir Robert
Southwell told, in 1670, of a conversation between Sandwich and himself in
October, 1667. On the other hand, D'Estrades, the French envoy, asserts--
what would give the lie to what Clarendon avers in his Life with
convincing proof and elaborate circumstantiality--that Clarendon had told
him that he was himself the author of the proposal. As regards Pepys's
report, Sandwich, probably, after the common fashion of experts, assigned
too much importance to his own expert advice; while the French envoy might
easily have misunderstood the attitude assumed by Clarendon, who was
bound, of course, to submit to the French diplomat even proposals which he
disliked as if he entirely concurred in them. We need have no difficulty
in assuming Clarendon's own deliberate and written account to be
substantially correct. That he was brought unwillingly to concur in a
proposal which had virtually obtained the assent of the King, is confirmed
by the fact that in his speech to Parliament in May, 1662, he condemned
the murmurs against the cost of Dunkirk, on the ground that it was a
diadem of which the English Crown could only be deprived at the cost of
great danger. It was no part of Clarendon's character to decline a
responsibility which was his own; nor was it his inclination to part
lightly with anything that added to the dignity of the English Crown. That
the first suggestion did not come from him may be accepted on his own
solemn averment; but it is also strongly confirmed by inherent
probability.

It remained only to decide with which Power the bargain should be made.
Policy, it might have been held, should have some influence in determining
the choice, at a moment when international relations were so delicately
poised. But Clarendon tells us that, strangely enough, the only question
was, Who would give the highest price? Both Spain and France were eager to
have the sea-port. Of the two Spain was by far the most popular in
England; but she was not likely to be so good a purchaser. She claimed the
cession of Dunkirk as a right, and it is always improbable that one who
puts forward such a claim should be inclined either to pay heavy purchase-
money, or to owe a deep debt of gratitude, for what is claimed as a right.
Above all, the coffers of Spain were in no condition to meet a heavy
payment. At best, there would have been tedious delay, during which the
heavy expenditure on the maintenance of Dunkirk would have continued to
fall on the English Treasury. To part with the sea-port to the United
Provinces might have secured a better price than from either of the
Crowns; but it would have been a signal of war to both of these, and the
United Provinces themselves might have found it a costly and embarrassing
possession.

It was with France, therefore, that the haggling had to be done, and it
was prosecuted with all the eagerness of the auction mart. Such
transactions can never be very dignified. The cession of an important sea-
port must necessarily be galling to national pride, and an injury to
national _prestige_; and in this case was the more damaging from the
tenure of Dunkirk being the token of Cromwell's proud supremacy abroad.
The chaffering went on through all the usual stages of alternate bluff and
concession on both sides. The final settlement secured for Charles a
payment of some two hundred thousand pounds. In the reckoning of the day
that was held to be a considerable sum. It possessed the merit, no
inconsiderable one in the mind of the King, of being at least free from
any of the embarrassments of a Parliamentary grant. Apart from the actual
money paid, the Treasury was relieved of an expenditure of about one
hundred and twenty thousand pounds annually. Of all such vantage posts
abroad, Dunkirk was perhaps the least useful, and the most risky to hold.
Trifling as was the price obtained according to our reckoning, it was
nevertheless of importance in the actual state of the exchequer. But the
nation invariably shows itself sensitive to the loss of honour implied in
such a cession, and is glad to have a victim on which to wreak its
irritation. It was on Clarendon that its unreasoning vengeance fell, and
at a later day the blame for an arrangement which he did not initiate, and
which at first he earnestly opposed, aggravated his growing unpopularity.
Once more he had had to content himself, not with the policy he most
approved, but with that which suited best the exigencies of the time; and
he had to bear the blame for action to which he unwillingly consented. It
is the hardest lot for the statesman, because it is that which his enemies
impute as a crime, and for which his friends can only offer an apology.

Whatever the injury to national dignity, the transaction not only gave
substantial pecuniary relief, but it seemed to promise, for the time, a
secure foreign alliance. The irritation on the side of France was allayed,
and Louis abandoned that tone of offence against Clarendon, which he had
repeatedly used to his ambassador, and which showed that he regarded the
policy of the Chancellor as the most serious menace to his power. The
cordiality between England and France was perhaps insecure, but it was
cemented by their common interest in maintaining the independence of
Portugal, and that, again, offered good prospects to the trading interest
of England.

But, at home, Clarendon found his influence threatened by increasing
virulence of intrigue, and by new scandals and dissensions at Court. To
the world at large he was still the all-powerful Minister. Only a few
months before, Dryden had poured out a poetical tribute, from that mint of
flattery of which his expenditure was so lavish, and had told Clarendon
that he and the King bounded the horizon of the universe to their country,
and had compared his wise counsels to the rich perfumes of the East. Even
Louis XIV. did not think it below his dignity to solicit the Chancellor's
favour, and to be jealous of his power. But Clarendon was not blind to the
influences that were undermining that power. Hitherto he and Southampton
had managed Parliamentary affairs through a small knot of members of tried
fidelity and experience. Such management called for wary and cautious
treatment, if jealousy was not to be aroused amongst the Parliamentary
ranks. The idea of government by an organized party in Parliament was as
yet unknown to our political practice, and would not have met with any
favour from Clarendon. To him a Minister was the servant of the King, and
in no way the nominee of any Party. None the less the germs of the new
system, all undiscerned by himself or his contemporaries, were developing
during his Ministry. We have already seen the knot of courtiers who were
held together chiefly by a common--although not clearly avowed--jealousy
of the Chancellor. Ashley, Buckingham, Bristol, and Lauderdale, were the
chief members of that confederacy; and they soon found means to introduce
new instruments to help in working the Parliamentary machine. The most
notable of these were Sir William Coventry, the son of Clarendon's old
friend, Lord Chancellor Coventry, and Sir Henry Bennet, who is better
known to history by the name of the Earl of Arlington, which was the title
conferred upon him in 1672. [Footnote: He was created Baron Arlington in
1664.] The influence of these two in Parliament, as the accredited agents
of the Court, began with the session of 1663, which opened on February
18th, and closed on July 27th. For William Coventry, Clarendon had a deep-
rooted dislike, which was increased rather than lessened by Clarendon's
respect for his father, and his good-will to his brother, Henry Coventry.
[Footnote: Henry Coventry was the elder brother of Sir William. He had
more than once been useful in embassies to Sweden, where he seems to have
acquired some of the convivial habits of that country. Without his
brother's wit, dexterity, or eloquence, he seems to have joined more than
his frankness to a blustering manner.] William Coventry's was one of those
"unconversable" natures which moved Clarendon's aversion. A sullen temper,
a censorious habit, and a pride that led him to belittle all in which he
was not chief agent, were precisely the traits of character which
Clarendon distrusted and disliked. He admits Coventry's abilities, and
gives him credit for being exempt from the degrading coarseness which was
typical of the Court. His portrait is painted for us in a few sentences
with all the consummate skill of the historian of the Rebellion.

"He was a sullen, ill-natured, proud man, whose ambition had no limits,
nor could be contained within any. His parts were very good, if he had not
thought them better than any other man's; and he had diligence and
industry, which men of good parts are too often without.... He was without
those vices which were too much in request, and which make men most unfit
for business and the trust that cannot be separated from it."

Clarendon's genius for character-drawing never suffers him to paint even
the portraits of his enemies all in black. [Footnote: Clarendon's
prejudice against Coventry, however, in spite of the admission of his
ability, was abnormally strong, and we shall find reason later to doubt
whether Clarendon did not in this case allow personal resentment to blind
him to some of Coventry's merits.] Such was his conception of the man who
now became Secretary to the Duke of York, and an active centre of
intrigue.

Sir Henry Bennet was a foeman of another kind. It was during the period of
exile that he had managed to ingratiate himself with Charles, and their
subsequent intimacy was coloured by the scenes which they had once shared
together. Bennet was the natural product of an exiled Court, forced to
have recourse to shifts of no dignified kind, and breathing an atmosphere
of cynicism and distrust. He knew nothing of, and cared, if possible,
still less for, the Constitution or the laws of England. He was one of
those who cultivated the friendship of Spain, with whose leading statesmen
he had close relations, and who saw in that friendship a balance to the
Portuguese alliance and the policy which Clarendon was believed to pursue.
He had no Parliamentary talents, and entered Parliament for the first time
during the session of 1663, But he was a pledged and trusted member of the
little Court cabal, which was now determined to organize a party in
Parliament to oppose the Chancellor's power. It became a part of their
scheme to find a place for Bennet where he could exercise a distinct
influence upon administration. The preliminary arrangements for this were
made without the Chancellor's knowledge. That stout and faithful servant
of the King, and sure friend of the Chancellor, Sir Edward Nicholas, was
now feeling the weight of years. His ample experience and tried fidelity
weighed for nothing in the minds of the Court clique, who desired his
place for Bennet. The King was easily persuaded to adopt the view that the
Chancellor found, in two old and weak secretaries, conveniently
subservient tools. Tempting terms were proposed to Nicholas. Suggestions
were skilfully thrown out that he should quit his employment, receiving
the ample provision of £10,000 in lieu of it, and also some notable token
of the gratitude and respect of the King. It was only natural that the old
man--whose memories of public service carried him back to the days when he
had been amongst the followers of the Duke of Buckingham at the time of
his assassination, nearly forty years before--should accept the proposal
readily. How it seemed to Clarendon is best seen in his own words. "It
cost the King, in present money and land on lease, very little less than
twenty thousand pounds, to bring in a servant whom very few cared for, in
place of an old servant whom everybody loved." [Footnote: _Life_, ii.
228.] The little faction who were intent upon their selfish plans for
ousting the Chancellor recked very little of lavish expenditure. The same
move that made the secretaryship of Nicholas vacant for Bennet, left
Bennet's place of Privy Purse available for another of the new favourites
and conspirators--Sir Charles Berkeley. [Footnote: Soon after created Earl
of Falmouth.] Amongst the crowd of discredited and dishonest intriguers
none was more vile or contemptible than he. In earlier days his character
was too notorious to be tolerated even by Charles; but there were tricks
and services, to which Berkeley made no scruple of stooping, and which
served to secure, first the tolerance, and then the friendship, of the
King. These changes in the official world were all menaces to Clarendon's
power.

[Illustration: SIR EDWARD NICHOLAS. (_From the original by Sir Peter
Lely, in the National Portrait Gallery._)]

It was one of the ironies of fate that the baser influences, now gaining
new power at Court, created or stimulated discontent, the brunt of which
fell on Clarendon, against whose authority these influences were chiefly
directed. The moral sense of the nation was being gradually provoked. That
sense is regulated by no great judgment, and often moves under violent
prejudice; but it slowly yet surely shapes itself on sound foundations.
The reaction against Puritanism had carried the nation far in the
direction of tolerance even of lax morality; but the scandals of the Court
had already begun to outrage the nation's sense of decency; and when
outraged decency is combined with increased pressure of taxation and
decreasing prosperity, the united force becomes a menacing threat. It was
a comparative trifle that the King's alleged bastard [Footnote: He was
born in 1646, and the King's age at the time justified doubts, which the
lady's lavish favours did not diminish.] by the notorious Lucy Waters, was
now formally introduced at Court under the name of Crofts; was married to
the heiress of the Earl of Buccleuch, and was speedily created Duke of
Monmouth. Such relationships had before been tacitly recognized but not
explicitly avowed; now for the first time the patent of nobility declared
the youth to be the natural son of the King. Vice laid aside that homage
of hypocrisy which it had before paid to virtue. It was an innovation
which Clarendon firmly opposed. "It would have," he told the King quite
plainly, "an ill sound in England with all his people, who thought that
these unlawful acts ought to be concealed, and not published and
justified." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 255.] Precedents from France and
Spain would not pass current in England; and even if these precedents were
admitted, they would hardly parallel the ennobling of the bastard of a
notorious courtezan, born when the King was scarcely sixteen years of age,
and whose parentage was, to say the least, doubtful.

By themselves such domestic scandals may perhaps count for little. But
when they are accompanied by growing discontent, resting upon solid
grounds, the aggregate of irritation becomes considerable. Our foreign
commerce was seriously crippled, and our manufactures found no outlet. The
home markets were interfered with by foreign goods imported during the
recent years of unsettlement in exaggerated quantities. The large advances
made by the bankers to meet taxes heavily in arrear produced a scarcity of
money, and this again led to a serious fall in rents. There was hardly a
class in the nation which was not suffering by the prevailing insecurity;
and these sufferings were aggravated by increasing taxation, by declining
national credit, and by the fears of insurrection, and of renewed civil
war, caused by the decaying reverence for the Crown. No one recognized
more clearly than Clarendon, or detested more cordially, the scandals that
tarnished the restored monarchy; to no one did they bring a fuller crop of
crushed hopes, and baffled efforts. Fortune's cynical injustice was never
more clearly shown.

To some of the clique of Clarendon's enemies it seemed as if the time had
come to strike a decisive blow. Stories of his impending fall were rife.
Pepys, repeating the gossip of the day, and the tittle-tattle of the back
stairs, tells us how "they have cast my Lord Chancellor on his back past
ever getting up again." [Footnote: Pepys, May 15th, 1663.] Bristol was the
first who determined to take overt action against the Chancellor. His
first effort was a singularly inept one, and involved one of the
confederates much more than Clarendon. Bristol had hopes, it would appear,
of arranging for himself a body of "undertakers" in the House of Commons,
who were to take upon themselves the management of measures desired by the
Crown. He had offered to Charles the services of Sir Richard Temple, who,
he asserted, would, if trusted, undertake that the King's business would
be effected, and revenue settled. Coventry, whose special functions were
thus threatened, reported the words, as those which had been used to the
King "by a person of quality," to the House, which thus saw its
independence flagrantly assailed; and on the petition of the House, the
King disclosed the name of the Earl of Bristol as his informant. Bristol
craved to be heard by the House in his own defence; and addressed them in
that tone of theatrical vanity and rhodomontade in which he was apt to
indulge. The whole transaction is a little obscure, and its objects seem
inconclusive. The world was already accustomed to these outbursts of
Bristol's self-advertising folly.

But his next step was more direct and more audacious. It was no less than
the impeachment of the Lord Chancellor. He consulted the King, who
endeavoured to dissuade him, but to whose dissuasions Bristol's insolent
reply was, that if he were not supported, "he would raise such disorders
that all England should feel them, and the King himself should not be
without a large share in them." [Footnote: _Burnet_, i. 339.] The
interview was evidently a stormy one, and Bristol did not scruple to
threaten his King in language for which he had afterwards to offer the
most abject apology.

The charges which Bristol, in spite of these warnings, formulated against
Clarendon in the House of Lords, were flimsy and fanciful even for his
contriving. Clarendon, it was alleged, had arrogated to himself a superior
direction in all his Majesty's affairs. He had abused the trust by
insinuating that the King was inclined to popery; [Footnote: These charges
from one who, on grounds of conscience that were more than suspected, had
joined the Roman Catholic Church, are worthy of Bristol's audacious
inconsistency.] he had alleged that the King had removed Nicholas, a
zealous Protestant, in order to bring in Bennet, a concealed Papist; he
had solicited from the Pope a Cardinal's hat for Lord Aubigny as the price
of suspension of the Penal Laws against Catholics; he had been responsible
for irregularities in the King's marriage; he had uttered scandals against
the King's course of life; he had given out that the King intended to
legitimize the Duke of Monmouth; had persuaded the King to withdraw the
garrisons from Scotland; had advised the sale of Dunkirk; had told the
King that the House of Lords was "weak and inconsiderable," and the House
of Commons "weak and heady;" and he had enriched himself and his followers
by illegitimate means.

It is difficult to understand how even the blind vanity and over-weening
self-importance of Bristol could have persuaded him that this string of
absurdities could injure the Chancellor, or obtain credence even from his
most prejudiced foes. There was not a single item that could involve a
charge of treason even if true, and some of the allegations imputed to
Clarendon opinions and aims to which he was notoriously opposed. It was
evident that Bristol had been inspired only by an insane desire to charge
against Clarendon anything which seemed likely to attach some unpopularity
to his name.

At Clarendon's desire the charges laid against him were referred to the
judges, who unanimously reported that the accusations had been irregularly
made, and that, even if they were admitted to be true, they involved no
treason. The King sent a message to the Lords, to inform them that some of
the facts alleged were, to his own certain knowledge, untrue. Never were
charges more recklessly brought, and never did a weapon, forged against an
enemy, towards whom Bristol nursed an almost insane jealousy, turn with
more deadly effect upon its contriver. A warrant was issued for Bristol's
arrest, and he escaped any more drastic punishment only by absconding. But
the episode closed for the time Bristol's career; and for a season it
seemed to confirm and re-establish the supremacy of Clarendon. One of his
foes at least had been worsted in the attempt to cast him on his back. But
harder troubles than those raised by Bristol's ill-aimed attack still
awaited him.




CHAPTER XXI

THE DUTCH WAR


Bristol had shot his bolt prematurely, and was foiled in his attack upon
Clarendon. For the moment the Chancellor's authority seemed to be
consolidated by the very machinations of his enemies. But the rancour of
the intriguers was none the less vigorous, and it required all his courage
and steadfastness to maintain the load of public care that hung upon him
while he saw his influence undermined by secret slander. He knew well that
the King was listening to those who spared no effort to excite his
jealousy of Clarendon's control; that the easy humour which prompted
Charles to avoid a rupture was no trustworthy shield against the effects
of his growing irritation. He saw that the Court was sinking deeper in the
mire of licentiousness and corruption, and was daily rousing against it
more emphatically the anger and contempt of the nation, and making his own
task of consolidation more hopeless. The anxieties and hardships of long
years of civil war, of exile, and of poverty, were telling sorely upon his
own health, and much of his work had to be carried on from a sick-bed, and
under the strain of painful illness. Ambition had never played a great
part in his life; and even gratified ambition would have been ill-paid by
high place and sounding titles, when these were accompanied by baffled
hopes, and by the sight of his ideals fading into unreality. But his
difficulties were now to be increased, as he saw the nation gradually
drifting into war, under the promptings of a selfish and reckless faction,
who exploited national jealousies for their own purposes, and, mistaking a
spirit of boastful bluster for courage and determination, sought to supply
the place of deliberate preparation by thoughtless provocations. And all
the while he knew perfectly well that, if disaster ensued, his enemies
would lay the blame on him.

Between England and the Dutch Republic, the causes of irritation had been
rapidly accumulating. The centre of the commerce of the world had now
shifted to North-Western Europe, and the growing commercial interests of
the day were a sure and increasing source of international jealousy. The
rivalry between England and Holland had begun before the Civil War, and
during that war Holland had found in England's distractions a splendid
opportunity for stealing a march on her most powerful rival. In her
colonial enterprise she had easily outstript Spain and Portugal, and more
than held her own with England. Her trade was the largest of the world.
Her fleet was admirably equipped, and the great traditions of her naval
commanders were worthily maintained since the death of Van Tromp, by De
Ruyter. If her marvellous prosperity carried within itself the seeds of
decay, these were not as yet apparent; and however dangerous were her
internal dissensions, they were for the time neutralized by the cunning
and the capacity of De Witt. No Power had better reason to recognize the
imperial force of Cromwell, and none was more keenly conscious of the
contrast between his master will, and the vacillating and distracted
counsels that now prevailed at the Court of England. Clarendon saw the
position as well as they. He knew how poor was the bulwark supplied by the
noisy loyalty of the Restoration, and how imperatively necessary it was to
consolidate authority at home before launching upon a foreign war. We have
already spoken of Cromwell's Navigation Act, forbidding any imports into
England except those carried in English ships, or in ships belonging to
the country of origin, and of the deadly wound which that Act had
inflicted upon the Dutch carrying trade. The Act had, as we have seen,
been renewed by the Parliament of 1661; but it remained to be seen whether
England could maintain by force of arms the supremacy which such
legislation assumed. If this was to be done, it could be only by careful
preparation, by establishing a sound financial system, and by presenting a
united front. All these essentials were ignored by the recklessness of
Clarendon's enemies, and his efforts to secure them were baffled by the
profusion, the waywardness, and the petty irritation of the King.

The Dutch could offer no direct opposition to the Navigation Laws; but in
colonial affairs they had ample opportunity for inflicting injury upon
England, and they were not slow to avail themselves of it. A tariff war
between the two countries had already begun. The woollen manufacturers of
England were threatened by the high import duties imposed by the Dutch
upon English goods; and England endeavoured to meet these by prohibiting
the export of wool. Each Parliamentary session saw new import duties
imposed upon foreign goods imported into England, and in many cases their
importation was absolutely prohibited. The rivalry in the fishing trade
led to conflicts which were carried almost to the point of war, and the
fishing fleets from the Dutch and English ports both reckoned, as an
ordinary experience, on having to defend themselves by armed force. But it
was on the West coast of Africa, and in the East Indies, that the two
Powers came into most serious collision, and there the bitterness of
rivalry was increased by a long catalogue of wrongs suffered on both
sides. The estrangement was intensified when the chief colonial rival of
Holland seemed likely to become, by the marriage treaty, the ally of
England, and when Portugal threatened, in the confidence of that alliance,
to prosecute her schemes of vengeance for the aggressions of the Dutch. It
became of the first importance for the Dutch to patch up some sort of
treaty with Portugal before the English alliance should be cemented, and
this was the object of the statesmen of the United Provinces. To
counteract this seemed to some to be the soundest policy for England.

The negotiations at the Hague were carried on by Sir George Downing, who
without being a leading statesman, or wielding any considerable authority
in England, yet managed to exert no little influence upon the course of
affairs at a very critical juncture. His career had been a strange one. He
was of obscure birth, but had managed to ingratiate himself with the
Protector, and was employed in various capacities--ranging, it would
appear, from chaplain to scout-master--in the Scottish army. In 1656, he
appeared in Cromwell's Parliament, as member for Haddington, and secured
for himself a plurality of offices, which combined a tellership of the
Exchequer, with the captaincy of a troop of horse. The time was favourable
for the adventurer whose advance was delayed by no scruples of conscience,
and no deficiency of self-assurance; and Downing increased his importance
by a marriage with the sister of Howard, first Earl of Carlisle. We next
find him resident at the Hague, as Cromwell's representative, and exerting
himself, with obtrusive zeal, in urging the exclusion from Dutch territory
of the exiled King and his Court. But Downing was one of those who
readily, and with no troublesome qualms of conscience or of honour,
accommodate themselves to changes of political circumstances. He was
astute enough to foresee the coming Restoration, and easily secured the
confidence and gratitude of Charles by betraying the secrets of those
whose agent he was. He rendered a useful service in betraying to Charles's
advisers the double-dealing of Sir Richard Willis, the Royalist who
stooped to be spy for Cromwell, and compounded with his conscience by
taking care that his betrayals should be accompanied by warnings which
enabled those whose movements he betrayed, to provide for their own
safety. Downing carefully copied the manoeuvres he exposed, and was
dexterous enough to arrange that he should continue, by an easy
transference of allegiance, to act at the Hague for Charles, in the same
capacity as he had acted for Cromwell, He had gained experience which was
eminently useful; and he was soon ready to show the same relentless skill
in tracing the hiding places of fugitive rebels, as he had lately shown in
harassing the exiled Royalists. He was a man of unquestionable ability, of
dauntless audacity, and restless activity; but he moved the hatred and
contempt alike of Royalist and rebel, for his arrogance, his brazen
insolence, and his cynical lack of conscience. Clarendon had now to use
him as agent in a series of complicated diplomatic transactions. To his
perspicacity, promptness, and determination, the Chancellor might trust.
But again and again, in his correspondence, Clarendon has to urge caution,
to rebuke Downing's arrogance, and to expostulate with him for an attitude
deliberately provocative, and neglectful of the plainest instructions
inculcating prudence and reserve. Clarendon was to have his instinctive
dislike of the man aggravated by many future provocations in other fields.
At this time, he found him the most dangerous of agents in a negotiation
of the utmost delicacy--one impatient of control, impetuous in temper,
reckless by his greed of self-glorification, and too intent upon achieving
a diplomatic triumph, to pay any attention to the risks of premature
hostilities. Downing was determined to prevent the concession of any
substantial advantages to the Dutch by means of the Portuguese treaty, and
did not hesitate to assert that any such concession would be treated by
the King of England as a breach of the engagement between Portugal and
himself. Clarendon was not prepared to assume such an attitude. An open
breach between Portugal and the United Provinces would undoubtedly have
involved England in war.

"You must set all your wits on work to prevent this war, which will
produce a thousand mischiefs, "wrote Clarendon to Downing; [Footnote:
Letter of November 22nd, 1661.] "the Dutch will undergo their full share
of them; nor can any good Dutchman desire that Portugal should be so
distressed as to fall again into the hands of the Spaniards."

Clarendon, of course, was alive to the disadvantages of a grant by
Portugal to the Dutch of privileges of trade equal to those possessed by
England. But if Portugal agreed to indemnify England for any loss of
exclusive privilege, then, in God's name, let them sign what treaty they
pleased. Anything rather than be plunged in a war to which the resources
of the nation were not equal, and which would inflict a far more crushing
blow upon those commercial interests in defence of which it would be
waged, than could be involved in any unduly generous treaty concessions to
a rival. The treaty was ratified, and for the moment the breach between
the United Provinces and Portugal was avoided.

Other grounds of quarrel soon supervened. Charles had strongly espoused
the interests of his sister's child, the young Prince of Orange, whose
exclusion, through the instrumentality of De Witt, from the office of
Stadtholder, which had been held by his father, was keenly resented by the
English King. Downing was instructed to support the Prince's claim, and
was ready, with his usual headstrong pugnacity, to make it an essential
condition of any treaty that these should be conceded. "The Dutch would
not hazard their trade," he wrote, "upon such a point." But he failed to
notice that the point involved the influence of De Witt, the most powerful
man in Holland. Once again Clarendon had to moderate the impetuosity of
his representative: we could make no such stipulation. "Upon what grounds,
I pray," wrote Clarendon to Downing, "can the King, in renewing a league
with the States-General, demand that they should choose a general of his
recommendation?" It would be time enough to intervene when we had
established peace. Then, and then only, could we think of fighting against
the intrigues of De Witt with any prospect of success.

Clarendon knew well that nothing would suit the plans of Louis XIV. so
entirely as an internecine war between England and the Dutch. Nor was this
the sole danger to be feared from engaging in hostilities. It was only by
a peace with Holland, that the fear of new dissensions at home could be
allayed.

"There is nothing," writes Clarendon to Downing, in August, 1661, "the
seditious and discontented people here do so much fear as a peace with
Holland, from the contrary to which they promise themselves infinite
advantages." "If this peace can be handsomely made up, and speedily, great
conveniences will arise from it; and we may, after two or three years'
settling at home, be in the better position to do what we find fit."

For the present, the aim of Clarendon's policy was to restore the position
to what it had been under Cromwell. If the conditions essential for the
free expansion of English trade were secured, the more distant quarrels
between the different trading companies in the East Indies and Africa
might be matter for subsequent argument, and the dynastic claims of the
House of Orange might be postponed to a more convenient season. With these
clear aims before him, it was not found impossible by Clarendon to arrange
a treaty between England and the United Provinces, which was signed at
Westminster, in September, 1662. Each was to aid the other against rebels,
and neither was to harbour fugitive rebels from the other Power. The naval
supremacy of England was to be acknowledged by the lowering of the flag by
Dutch vessels. The island of Polerone in the Malay Archipelago--an old
subject of contention--was to be restored by Holland. There was to be full
freedom of trade between the two Powers. The quarrels of the independent
trading companies of each Power in Africa and the East Indies were not to
involve war, but were to form subject of arbitration, and equitable
settlement after a due interval. No dispute was to be revived which dated
earlier than 1654, and later claims which were still outstanding were to
be settled by Commissioners appointed by the two Powers. This last article
alone was soon found to involve grounds of dissension far-reaching enough
to have broken up the peace, even had no other irritating causes
supervened.

But all other causes of hostility were of comparatively small importance
compared with the essential and insuperable rivalry in colonial trade. It
was in these new and expanding markets that the question of European
commercial supremacy must be fought out. The command of them was of
absolutely vital importance in the inevitable struggle for existence
between the two nations. They were chiefly in the hands of great and
independent companies working under the protection of either Power. These
companies were careless of international rights; zealous only to secure
their own commercial monopoly, and certain of being backed up by all the
resources of their own State. In England there were three of these great
companies--the Turkey Company, the East India Company, and the Royal
African Company. Each could rely upon powerful political support, and
their ambitions were supported by the solid mass of England's commercial
class. Early in the session, which began in March, 1664, the grievances
from which English commerce suffered under the overweening insolence and
repeated aggressions of the Dutch, were laid before Parliament. Heavy
losses were alleged to have been suffered, and the dangers of the total
decay of the trade were forcibly foretold. Parliament was not slow to take
the alarm. Both Houses concurred in the resolution--

"That the wrongs, dishonours, and indignities done to his Majesty by the
subjects of the United Provinces, by invading of his rights in India,
Africa, and elsewhere, and the damages, affronts, and injuries done by
them to our merchants, are the greatest obstruction of our foreign trade;"

and they prayed that speedy and effectual means should be taken for
obtaining redress, and for preventing such injuries in future. It was
clear that the national temper had been thoroughly aroused, and would
insist on asserting itself. Clarendon's influence is seen in the
moderation of Charles's reply. He approved their zeal and promised
inquiry, but went no further than to undertake that his Minister should
demand reparation, and take steps for the prevention of such wrongs in
future.

The bellicose attitude of Parliament had given much alarm to the Dutch.

"The resolution of the two Houses of Parliament," writes Downing to
Clarendon, [Footnote: Letter of April 29th, 1664.] "is altogether beyond
their expectation, and puts them to their wits' end." "Believe me," he
goes on, "at the bottom of their hearts, they are sensible of the weight
of a war with his Majesty."

The moderation of the King's reply served to allay the Dutchmen's fears of
the imminence of war; but De Witt found it prudent to promise that he
would do his utmost to meet the English demands. He expressed to Downing
"with great appearing joy," his satisfaction with the King's reply; and
said that "since his Majesty had so tenderly declared himself, he would
upon that account condescend so much the more to give him satisfaction."
Downing doubtless thought that the demand went unduly far in the direction
of moderation. But if he had any fears that pacific motives would prevail,
he was soon to be undeceived. For the moment war seemed to be averted.
Louis XIV.--however he might wish to see the naval Powers exhaust
themselves by mutual injuries--had no wish to see the outbreak of a war in
which the Treaty rights of the Dutch warranted them in calling for his
assistance, and he offered himself as a mediator. But both the disputants
were drifting rapidly to the arbitrament of arms.

Downing had a powerful ally for his own warlike inclinations in the Duke
of York. James was restless when deprived of opportunity of adding to his
influence, and satisfying his chief ambition, by engaging in some warlike
operation. He had already acquired some reputation, not without warrant,
as a capable naval commander, and as a man of personal courage. He had
little opportunity of political action in England, and a war with the
Dutch not only promised vengeance for old grudges against the nation, but
offered a good chance of winning new renown. He had other less creditable
motives. He had taken an active part in the management of some of the
great trading companies, and was deeply interested in various colonial
enterprises. In March, 1664, James obtained a grant of Long Island on the
American coast--a territory nominally belonging to the English, but now,
in default of their colonizing it, occupied by the Dutch, who had built a
town called New Amsterdam. With the help of two ships of war, lent him by
the Crown, the Duke organized an expedition to seize the island. The
scanty Dutch colony could offer no effective resistance. Their town was
ceded to the emissaries of the Duke, who changed its name to one destined
to hold a large space in the history of the world. New Amsterdam became
New York, as the result of a buccaneering raid, carried out by some three
hundred men, hired by the Duke of York to prosecute a private
proprietorial claim.

The Duke was also Governor of the African Trading Company, and this again
brought him into even more serious conflict with the Dutch. That company
had established its operations upon the Guinea coast before the Civil War,
and had carried on a successful trade, which had been grievously
interrupted by the troubles at home. The Dutch had, meanwhile, established
a rival factory, and prosecuted their trade with such success as seriously
to cripple that of England. After the Restoration, the company was re-
organized, and the Duke being persuaded to become Governor, a Royal
Charter was easily obtained. Those who knew the region were convinced of
its promise; and high profits were confidently expected by bartering
English goods against the gold and the slaves, of which the supply was so
rich. The gold was brought in sufficient quantities to give the name of
"Guineas" to a new designation in the English coinage; and the slaves were
easily disposed of at a high price to other plantations in various parts
of the globe. The only inconvenience arose from the hindrance which the
Dutch could offer to English trade, by means of their own superior trade
organization, and the more suitable situation of their factory.

Once more the difficulty in the way of the Duke and his Company was
settled by an armed raid. Exactly as in the case of New York, he
"borrowed" two ships of war from the King, and sent an expedition under
the command of Sir Robert Holmes, which, by a flagrant violation of every
international right, seized the Dutch fort. The balance of wrong was thus
roughly reversed. By an act of unwarrantable violence the Duke of York had
fixed upon his own nation the burden of maintaining what amounted to
piratical aggression; and he had done it--as Clarendon is obliged to
allow--"without any authority, and without a shadow of justice,"
[Footnote: Letter to Downing, October 28th, 1664.]--solely in satisfaction
of his own private rights as a company promoter. Clarendon's diplomacy
was, of a truth, conducted under untoward circumstances! Between the
filibustering of his royal son-in-law, and the deliberate exasperation of
his accredited representative at the Hague, peace had become well-nigh
hopeless. Under such conditions negotiations became tangled beyond the
possibility of repair. De Witt recognized that no reparation for the wrong
done at Cape Verde would be secured except by armed force. But in carrying
out this purpose he still endeavoured to avoid any declaration of war. De
Ruyter and the English Admiral Lawson were now cruising in the
Mediterranean, on a joint expedition, for suppression of piracy, and for
releasing the captives of Tunis and Algiers. De Ruyter secretly separated
himself from his English ally, sailed for Cape Verde, and there took
vengeance for the English aggression on the trading operations of the
Dutch. It was an open breach of the stipulation of the Treaty, which
required that reparation for colonial wrongs should be sought by peaceable
arbitration. Clarendon had recognized fully that such reparation was due,
and had instructed Downing to offer it. The elusive tactics of De Witt,
and the armed intervention of De Ruyter, frustrated Clarendon's efforts
for a peaceful settlement.

Already Clarendon's pronounced inclination for peace had earned for him
the ill-will which the Duke of York's habitual sulkiness of temper was so
apt to indulge. The King had given their due weight to the arguments of
the Chancellor, and felt the danger which war would involve at once to his
own authority at home, and to the position of England in Europe. This he
had impressed upon his brother; and James rightly ascribed the King's
backwardness to Clarendon, and found a convenient medium of remonstrance
in his wife, whom he instructed to explain to her father the Duke's
annoyance at finding him his chief opponent "in an affair upon which he
knew his heart was so much set." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 240.] It was
characteristic of James that he should deal with a matter of vital
interest to the kingdom, as if it was the fitting subject of petty
personal pique. Anne undertook the duty, and begged her father no longer
to oppose the Duke. Clarendon told her that she "did not enough understand
the importance of that affair;" but he would speak to the Duke about it.
At their interview, James renewed his tone of personal annoyance, urged
the expediency of the war, and above all complained that, as "he was
engaged to pursue it," Clarendon should allow the world to see "how little
credit he had with him."

Clarendon's reply was as dignified as it was candid. "He had no
apprehension that any sober man in England, or his highness himself,
should believe that he could fail in his duty to him, or that he would
omit any opportunity to make it manifest, which he could never do without
being a fool or a madman." But on the other hand he would never give
advice, nor consent to anything, which his judgment and his conscience
told him would be mischievous to the Crown and to the Kingdom, "though his
royal highness, or the King himself, were inclined to it." From the first,
the King, he told the Duke, had been "averse from any thought of this
war;" but he did not deny that he had done all in his power to confirm the
King in that opinion. A few too complacent friends, he told the Duke,
might for the moment concur in his view; reflection would soon change
their minds. "A few merchants, nor all the merchants in London, were not
the city of London, which had had war enough, and could only become rich
by peace." The hopes of a liberal grant from Parliament were delusions. He
was old enough to remember what had been the fate of James I., who had
been tempted "to enter into a war with Spain, upon promise of ample
supplies; and yet when he was engaged in it, they gave him no more supply,
so that at last the Crown was compelled to accept of a peace not very
honourable;" and, Clarendon might have added, to begin that long struggle
over supply which had led to the Rebellion.

Clarendon's plain speaking did not end here. The Duke plumed himself upon
his military prowess, and was eager for the war because of the laurels
which he believed it had in store for him. With a better appreciation of
his son-in-law's abilities, Clarendon begged him to reflect "upon the want
of able men to conduct the counsels upon which such a war must be carried
on." For a time it had seemed as if the Duke were ready to listen to
reason, and there had been less talk of war; but the recent aggressions on
both sides had dispelled such hopes. De Ruyter had inflicted heavy injury
on the English merchants on the African Coast. This was answered by an
attack by Prince Rupert's fleet upon the Dutch merchantmen in the Channel.
War had virtually begun, in spite of all the Chancellor's counsels of
prudence, and all his warnings of the imminent danger. Specious proposals
for a settlement were now too late.

"Though I am very glad," wrote Clarendon to Downing, [Footnote: Letter of
October 28th, 1664.] "to find any temperate and sober considerations,
which dispose that people to peace, I wish they had entertained it sooner,
for I scarce see time left for such a disquisition as is necessary. They
have too insolently provoked the King to such an expense, that fighting is
thought the better husbandry."

It was now needful to apply to Parliament, which met on November 24th.
Clarendon was again prostrated by a severe attack of gout, and could not
himself appear in Parliament; but a narrative in writing, which was to be
the basis for asking for a liberal grant, was laid before the House. The
treachery of the Dutch and their open aggressions were exposed; and as the
King was thus "forced to put himself in the posture he is now in for the
defence of his subjects at so vast an expense," he trusted that Parliament
"would cheerfully enable him to prosecute the war with the same vigour he
hath prepared for it, by giving him supplies proportionate to the charge
thereof."

Those very men, such as Bennet and Coventry, who had chiefly urged the
war, were now backward in risking their popularity by asking for an
adequate grant. It was left to Clarendon and Southampton to urge that the
amount to be asked for should be commensurate with the vastness of the
undertaking, and that the resolution of the King and his subjects, to
carry out the great task to which they had applied themselves, should be
proved to the world by an abundant supply. This they could not reckon at
less than two millions and a half. It was an unprecedented charge, and
must necessarily strain the relations between the Crown and the
Parliament, and stimulate that very discontent which Clarendon knew to be
slumbering and ready to break out.

When Parliament came to consider the matter, there was no apparent lack of
zeal, but there was, amongst the crowd of private members, no one ready to
name a sum. The Chancellor and the Treasurer had prepared for this, by
consultations with two or three members of established reputation and of
weight in the House and the country; and after an ominous pause, Sir
Robert Paston, one of these members, proposed that "the present supply
ought to be such as might as well terrify the enemy as assist the King,
and that it should therefore be two millions and a half." "The silence of
the House," Clarendon proceeds in his narrative, "was not broken." Some
one, "who was believed to wish well to the King"--with that sort of well-
wishing which characterized the time-serving of Bennet and his
confederates--moved that the grant should be much smaller. But those who
had been prepared by Clarendon manfully backed the suggestion of Sir
Robert Paston; and it was carried by a majority of 172 to 102 in the
grudging silence of those who dreaded lest such a grant might secure
Clarendon against the odium of repeated applications to the generosity of
Parliament. The very men who had secretly opposed it, were not ashamed
now, in view of this lavish grant, to stimulate the King to a new warlike
zeal, and to confirm the hostile inclinations of the nation at large.

"There appeared," says Clarendon, "great joy and exaltation of spirit upon
this vote, and not more in the Court than upon the exchange, the merchants
being unskilfully inclined to that war, above what their true interest
could invite them to, as in a short time afterwards they had cause to
confess." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 311.]

Clarendon's prophetic fears were not diminished as time went on. He knew
well how quickly such warlike zeal as now prevailed would spend itself,
when the burdens of war were felt, and when the interference with commerce
made those burdens all the harder. He had good reason to know the
corruption that prevailed in the dockyards, and how soon money would melt
away in the hands of those who took care that all warlike preparations
should yield an abundant harvest of illegal gain to those engaged in them.
But the die was now cast, and on February 22nd, 1665, war was declared.
Never was hazard run with more reckless thoughtlessness, and with less of
a spirit of stern resolution, and of that mood that could brace the nation
to such work. The Chancellor knew well that he had lost the confidence of
the King, and he was under no delusion as to what loss of confidence
involved with one so selfish and so unprincipled as Charles. Never had the
Court stood so low in the estimation of all that was soundest in the
nation. Clarendon's own words bear the impress of his misgivings.

"All serious and prudent men took it as an ill presage, that whilst all
warlike preparations were made in abundance suitable to the occasion,
there should be so little preparation of spirit for a war against an
enemy, who might possibly be without some of our virtues, but assuredly
was without any of our vices." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 352.]

It is hard to estimate the burden of bitter disappointment that is
compressed into these words.

At the Admiralty, and in the dockyards, there was activity enough. There
was one, the candid pages of whose secret diary have given us a faithful
picture of the business, and who was no insignificant part of the
administrative machine. Month by month Pepys was earning more of his own
genial self-approbation by acquiring new consideration, and by his growing
mastery of Admiralty business. Month by month he found his little store
waxing larger, by gains more or less legitimate, and his official
importance enhanced by devices which were not always very high-principled.
But the English fleet would have been far better equipped than it was, had
those in higher places shown half the energy of Samuel Pepys, had their
peculations been kept within his limits, had their stratagems been
controlled even by his occasional respect for principle, and had their
characters been tainted by no more than his fantastic vanity, and his
schoolboy debauchery. Day by day, with all his uncontrolled propensity for
carouses, with all his lively taste for gossip, with all his gallantries
and all his petty selfishness, Pepys shows us how manfully he struggled to
make his work efficient, how often he strove successfully against
profusion, and peculation, and hopeless mismanagement, and how he managed
to steer his way safely amidst the jealousies, and corruptions, and gross
jobberies of those under whom he served. There is something dramatic in
comparing the record of his struggle with details that Pepys has left us,
with the picture of hopeless corruption which revealed itself to
Clarendon, standing at the other end of the official ladder. Under the
patronage of the Duke, there was a little knot of men, who regarded the
Admiralty chiefly as a field where they could reap a rich harvest of
illegal gains. Coventry had now established for himself a control over all
appointments. His agent was Sir William Penn, who had failed to rise to
Cromwell's standard of efficiency, and had found himself discarded, and a
prisoner in the Tower, after his defeat at St. Domingo, but who had
managed to creep back into employment by cultivating the new powers. These
two carried on a shameless, although well-recognized, sale of offices, and
disarmed all criticism that might be dangerous by sharing their ill-gotten
booty amongst a wide circle of confederates, of whom that model of
chivalry, Sir Charles Berkeley, was one of the chief.

"This was the best husbandry he (Coventry) could have used; for by this
means all men's mouths were stopped, and all clamour secured; whilst the
lesser sums for a multitude of officers of all kinds were reserved to
himself, which, in the estimation of those who were at no great distance,
amounted to a very great sum, and more than any officer under the King
could possibly get by all the perquisites of his office in many years."
[Footnote: _Life_, ii. 330.]

Thefts and embezzlements became almost acknowledged practices, and as each
ship returned, its equipments were shamelessly sold by the Admiralty
representatives, and the proceeds divided amongst the officers.

"When this was discovered (as many times it was) and the criminal person
apprehended, it was alleged by him as excuse 'that he had paid so dear for
his place, that he could not maintain himself and his family, without
practising such shifts;' and none of these fellows were ever brought to
exemplary justice, and most of them were restored to their employments."
[Footnote: _Life_, ii. 329.]

We have the picture painted from below and from above; and as we look on
it, the wonder is, not that the pressure of the war was great, and its
successes meagre, but rather that disasters did not crowd upon us more
thickly. The conduct of the war does not, of course, belong to the life of
Clarendon. [Footnote: "They who contrived the war had the entire
conducting of it, and were the sole causes of all the ill effects of it"
(_Life_, ii. 325).] We have hitherto seen only his efforts to stay
its outbreak, and the despairing thoughts, which the prospect of the
danger, and the recklessness with which it was met, provoked in him. It
was part of his business to try to organize some sort of alliances abroad,
which might counteract the influence of De Witt. Denmark and Sweden had
every reason to oppose the growing commercial power of the Dutch, and to
help in any scheme for checking it. But they were divided by mutual
jealousies, and their alliance could hardly be gained jointly for the
English Crown. Henry Coventry, whose talents and character Clarendon
esteemed very differently from those of his brother Sir William, was envoy
to Sweden, and managed to secure at least temporary neutrality from that
Power, as did Sir Gilbert Talbot from Denmark. But time soon showed that
any hope of effective alliance was vain. The warlike Bishop of Munster
did, indeed, find it convenient to avenge his own wrongs by attacking the
United Provinces, and by acting in conjunction with England. But such an
ally was not a source of much strength, and it might well be doubted
whether his co-operation was worth the very considerable subsidy which he
demanded, of two hundred and fifty thousand pounds. In truth, it soon
became evident enough that England must rely upon herself alone, and that
a still greater danger lurked in the background, in the doubtful
neutrality, and very probable hostility, of France. Amidst this gathering
cloud of unfriendliness, a new source of enmity was started by the
extensive resort to privateering on the part of England, the danger of
which Clarendon fully perceived. He had no words too strong to condemn
this practice.

"They (the privateers) are a people, how countenanced so ever or thought
necessary, that do bring an unavoidable scandal, and it is to be feared a
curse, upon the justest war that was ever made at sea. A sail! A sail! is
the word with them: friend or foe is the same; they possess all they can
master, and run with it to any obscure place where they can sell it (which
retreats are never wanting) and never attend the ceremony of an
adjudication." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 335. We must not forget that
Clarendon had himself suffered from these licensed robbers, and bore them
a grudge.]

The resort to privateering drew upon England the hatred of every trading
company in Europe; but what was still worse, the career it opened was a
far more lucrative one than that offered by the royal navy, and recruiting
was fatally injured so long as the prospect of uncounted booty lay open to
those who sailed as privateers. More fatal still, any opposition to it was
interpreted by the little knot of the Duke's _protégés_ as a personal
disloyalty. "Whoever spake against those lewd people, upon any case
whatsoever, was thought to have no regard for the Duke's profit, nor to
desire to weaken the enemy." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 336.]

There was another innovation, adopted in the interests of this nest of
shameless pilferers, who throve under the Duke's protection. It was in
vain that Clarendon remonstrated, and appealed either to constitutional
precedent, or to the prudence and the self-interest of the King. Heavy as
had been the burden of taxation caused by the war, hopes had been raised
that the prices realized by the sale of captured vessels and goods would,
soon after the beginning of the war, yield revenue enough to go far to
meet the cost. "After one good fleet should be set out to beat the Dutch,
the prizes, which would every day after be taken, would plentifully do all
the rest"--such was the confident prediction. It would, under no
circumstances, have been realized. But in previous wars a strict account
had been kept. Commissioners were appointed for the sale of prizes, and
they were bound to account for every penny received. Such a course no
longer met the views of Charles and of those who now had his confidence.

The new design for dealing with these prizes of war was sprung without
warning upon the Chancellor, and with circumstances that might have
stirred a temper less quick than his. One evening a servant of Lord Ashley
brought to the Chancellor a warrant, the object of which was to constitute
Lord Ashley Treasurer of all the monies raised upon prizes of war, to
assign to him the patronage of all offices necessary for the service, to
make him accountable to none but the King, and to direct him to pay out
all such monies as the King should order. To this warrant the Chancellor
was requested to affix the seal that evening. Clarendon replied that he
would speak with the King before he sealed the grant.

The purport of such an order was only too clear. The prize money was not
to be spent in mitigating the heavy burden of taxation, but was to be
administered according to the caprices of the King, in the ignoble
expenses of his Court, and through the hands of an unscrupulous clique,
whose peculations would thus be completely concealed. It is an indication
of the inveterate prejudice which has infected the Whig historians of the
period, that this scandalous iniquity has been glozed over, or, at the
most, timidly criticized. Ashley was a Whig, and the friend of Whig
philosophers. His falsehoods, his treacheries, his flagrant acts of
peculation, are therefore to be veiled under a discreet silence, or
visited with condemnation that is lightened by profuse apology. It is
surely time that this pharisaicism of party prejudice should be shaken
off. [Footnote: It is a perpetual amusement to contrast the timid
condemnation with which such a Whig as Lister visits the turpitudes of
such as Ashley, with the solemn lectures poured out over any deviation in
the case of Clarendon from the accepted standard of Whig orthodoxy.]
Ashley was primarily responsible for a scandalous fraud and an indecent
robbery of the public purse, for which not a shadow of defence can be
offered. He became the head of a gang of ignoble tricksters, who stooped
to be pandars to their royal master's pleasures, at the price of sharing
the fruits of public plunder, and with the aim of undermining the
influence of the Minister whose rectitude shamed them. The fact that
Ashley was a friend of John Locke does not lessen his turpitude by one
jot.

Clarendon's remonstrance with the King was as plain spoken as usual. He
"doubted that his Majesty had been surprised; it was not only
unprecedented, but in many particulars destructive to his services and to
the rights of other men." It was an insult to the Lord Treasurer, whose
prerogatives it invaded; and lastly, it was fraught with great danger to
Ashley himself. The King was brought to consent to the suspension of the
warrant; for the rest, he was obstinate. "It would bring prejudice only to
himself, which he had sufficiently provided against." Clarendon did not
give up the fight. He remonstrated with Ashley, who of all men might have
avoided being the medium of a slight upon Southampton, whose niece he had
married, and to whose good offices he owed his first advancement; but was
met only by sulky obstinacy. He endeavoured to arouse Southampton; but the
Treasurer was old and apathetic, and unwilling to engage in new struggles.
It was a sign of Clarendon's decaying influence, that all his efforts were
in vain. He received a positive order from the King that the Commission
should be signed, and he felt it no longer possible to refuse. It is easy
for us, judging when the spirit of the constitution has been changed, to
condemn Clarendon for not throwing up his office, in the face of such
rejection of his advice. It is enough to say that such action would have
been deemed by Clarendon himself to be a dereliction of his duty. By all
the memories of the past, by his affectionate reverence for his former
master, by long association in the days of exile and misfortune--nay, also
by his profound veneration for the Crown--Clarendon felt that it was his
duty to remain in the service of Charles II. to the end, and to defend the
King his master, even against his most deadly enemies, his own selfishness
and lack of principle. The easy and convenient method of resignation,
sanctioned now by long constitutional usage, was--or seemed to himself to
be--impossible to Clarendon. Had it been otherwise, how welcome would such
release have been to the weary, disgusted, and despairing statesman!

We have thus seen how Clarendon was driven along, against all his better
judgment, in spite of all his remonstrances, by an insane current of
warlike frenzy, amidst which his warnings were unheard, and where a small
clique exploited the prevalent commercial jealousies, as a means of
bringing satisfaction to their own selfish schemes of greed and ambition.
We have seen how he strove vainly to moderate international hatred, to
compose topics of quarrel, and to bring about a pacific settlement. We
have noted his efforts to obtain alliances with, or at least neutrality on
the part of, neighbouring Powers, and how cautiously he watched each
movement of France, whose adhesion to England's foes might be so full of
danger. We have learned his estimate of the cost, and how fully he
realized that for the Crown to enter on war without ample supplies, was
the certain precursor of a new Parliamentary struggle more keen and more
fatal than the last; and we have seen how he managed, in spite of
opposition at Court, to secure an unprecedented grant. We have seen how
convinced he was of the corruption and mismanagement of the navy, and with
what thoughtless lack of preparation we were entering upon a fierce
struggle with a foe that fought for very life. We have seen how, even at
the entry upon the war, Clarendon found that no remonstrances of his could
prevent a huge asset, in the prizes of war, being handed over to a corrupt
clique, to be dissipated in grants that were at once illegal in method,
and degrading in effect. The incidents of the war do not belong to
Clarendon's life, except as they presented new problems for statesmanship,
or gave opportunities for attempting accommodation.

At the opening of the war, and in spite of all that hindered efficient
work, the fleet was organized upon a scale unknown before. The Duke of
York was in command, and under the influence of the outburst of warlike
fervour, the nobility hastened to join the fleet as volunteers. Some
30,000 men manned the ships, and the Duke found himself at the head of a
hundred sail. The Dutch, who were commanded by Opdam, were in no less
ardent mood, and both sides were equally eager for an engagement. They
soon got into touch with one another; and in June, 1665, and after some
tentative attacks, a general engagement took place in Southwold Bay, off
the coast of Suffolk, on the 3rd of that month. The result was a great
victory for the English fleet. The Dutch lost some twenty ships, and
10,000 men in killed and prisoners. On the English side some 800 men were
killed, and not a few of the leading men who had volunteered for the war
fell in the fight. Amongst them was the new Earl of Falmouth, [Footnote:
Sir Charles Berkeley, whose name has emerged in our narrative in no
honourable guise, had the year before been created Lord Harding, and soon
after Earl of Falmouth. At the same time, Bennet, another of the ignoble
clique, became Lord Arlington.] whose loss produced a grief on the part of
Charles, for which those who had known its object were at a loss to
account. A far more serious loss to the nation was that of Admiral Lawson,
the very model of the best type of English sailor. He had borne the brunt
of naval warfare under Blake in Cromwell's day, had materially helped to
bring about the Restoration settlement, and was one of the few who played
his part in that work without thought of personal aggrandizement; and he
had maintained the older traditions of naval discipline against the newer
school who scorned the roughness of the older type. Clarendon's simple
words are his best epitaph, and they are none the less sincere because
they were written of one who was an ardent Independent: "He performed to
his death all that could be expected from a brave and an honest man."

The victory was a notable one, but the chance it offered of completely
destroying the Dutch fleet was lost by stupid bungling on the part of the
Duke of York or some one in his suite. The remnants of the Dutch fleet
were making for harbour, and could easily have been overtaken by the
pursuers; but for some reason never well explained--probably some timid
order given by his attendant, Brouncker, in order to lessen the risk to
the Duke, or, more strange still, in order not to disturb his sleep--a
command was issued to slacken sail, and the fugitives escaped. The story
was never cleared up, but reasons of policy brought about an order that,
as heir to the Crown, the Duke should not again assume active command.

This success, incomplete as it was, might have seemed to offer a good
opportunity for coming to a settlement, and again Louis XIV. was ready to
give his services in the capacity of peacemaker. The Dutch were still
obstinate and extravagant in their demands. But the policy of Louis was
suddenly changed by the death of the King of Spain, by the new prospects
which were thus opened to him, and by his hopes to secure the assistance
of the Dutch in seizing Flanders. In the autumn of 1665, France was
obviously ready to sacrifice the friendship of England for this new
alliance. Never was the prospect more threatening. The burden of the war
had been terribly severe. To that burden was added the grievous scourge of
the plague now raging in London, with such intensity that it claimed
10,000 victims in one week. When in October, 1665, Clarendon laid before
Parliament a narrative of the war, and asked for new supplies, the outlook
for England was dark indeed. The appeal was met generously, and a new
grant of £1,250,000 was voted. But the King's Ministers had to face the
probability of an almost solid alliance against them. The resources of the
Bishop of Munster were exhausted, and in no case could he maintain himself
in the field when greater Powers intervened. Sweden and Denmark were at
best but doubtful friends. France saw her opportunity. She urged that the
King of England should formulate his demands against the Dutch, and so
permit France to mediate and thus stop a war which was interfering with
the trade of Europe, and in which the excesses of the privateers had
inflicted heavy damages upon French merchantmen. The intervention of
France assumed a more and more threatening aspect. At length, Clarendon
had to make a firm stand against the attitude assumed. The words he uses
are grave and dignified.

"The counsellors of the King told the French Ambassadors that their master
had very well considered the disadvantage he must undergo by the access of
so powerful a friend, and of whose friendship he thought himself
possessed, to the part of his enemies who were too insolent already; to
prevent it, he would do anything that would consist with the dignity of a
King; but that he must be laughed at and despised by all the world, if he
should consent to make him arbitrator of the differences, who had already
declared himself to be a party; that such menaces would make no impression
in the last article of danger that could befall the King." [Footnote:
_Life_, ii. 437.]

The conference broke off with no doubt in the mind of Clarendon that
France was resolved on war. When the Council was called to consider the
situation "there was," he says, "no one present who had not a deep
apprehension of the extreme damage and danger that must fall upon the
King's affairs, if at this juncture France should declare war against
England." But however much he withstood the outbreak of the war, it was
not consistent with Clarendon's mood to yield in presence of danger.

Meanwhile no further successes had attended the prosecution of the war. By
means of Henry Coventry and Talbot, efforts were still made to bind Sweden
and Denmark closer to England, and in July, a scheme had been arranged by
which the Dutch fleet of East Indian merchantmen, while in the harbour of
Bergen, should be handed over to Lord Sandwich, who had now succeeded the
Duke of York as Commander of the English fleet. The plan was not one that
reflected much credit on any of those engaged in it; and it was not
crowned by the atoning quality of even partial success. The Dutch showed
fight, the citizens of Bergen resented the attack by the English fleet,
contradictory or dilatory orders produced doubt and confusion, and the
damage and loss were distributed equally amongst the attackers and the
attacked. De Ruyter drew off with his convoy, and Sandwich returned from a
bootless errand. France managed to detach Denmark from England, and to
bring about a treaty with the Dutch which bound Denmark to assist Holland
against England. Sweden remained at best a half-hearted friend.

Sandwich was injured at once by his failure at Bergen and by a peculiarly
ill-conducted case of mal-appropriation of prizes, of which he was guilty.
[Footnote: Sandwich had never been a close adherent of Clarendon. But
Clarendon is generous enough, in this crisis of his fortunes, to defend
him against his enemies, and to acquit him of all but a somewhat awkward
exercise of a right of perquisites. In Clarendon's eyes, he had the saving
merit of being attacked by Coventry. See _post_, p. 235.] He was sent
as ambassador to Spain, and Prince Rupert and the Duke of Albemarle were
appointed to joint command of the fleet. The "affection and unquestionable
courage of Prince Rupert were not doubted"--so Clarendon said when
arranging the matter with Albemarle--"but the King was not sure that the
quickness of his spirit, and the strength of his passion, might not
sometimes stand in need of a friend, who should be in equal authority with
him." [Footnote: _Life_, ii. 485. In these words, Clarendon no doubt
expressed some lively memories of the days of the Civil War.] The
combination did not answer well. By a fatal error--not improbably induced
by Rupert's desire for independent action--the fleet was broken up, and
the Prince sailed, on the credit of a false report, to meet a French fleet
under Admiral Beaufort. While he was thus detached, Albemarle was attacked
by the Dutch fleet, and escaped only with heavy loss. A month or two later
a portion of the English fleet attacked Schelling--a sea-port on the
Zuyder Zee--and burned a fleet of merchantmen and the town itself.

"The conflagration, with that of the ships, appearing at the break of day
so near Amsterdam, put that place into that consternation that they
thought the day of judgment was come, and thinking of their ships there as
being out of the power and reach of any enemy; and no doubt it was the
greatest loss that State sustained in the whole war." [Footnote:
_Life_, iii. 80.]

But it was a costly success; "it raised great thoughts of heart in De
Witt, and a resolution of revenge before any peace should be thought of,"
[Footnote: _Life_, iii. 80.] and it did not materially improve the
position for England.

To the burden of the plague and of war there was now added--in September,
1666--the calamity of the Great Fire of London. Clarendon was not disposed
to accept humiliating terms, but prudence forbade him to reject openings
for peace. Charles offered in January, 1667, to send an embassy to the
Hague to treat of peace. The place was selected because it was believed
that there the party of the Prince of Orange might best balance the
influence of De Witt, and give an impulse to the peace negotiations. Delay
was caused by other places being proposed in its stead, but there was no
unwillingness to enter upon negotiations. These, however, received their
chief impulse from the separate proposals for a treaty between England and
France. These proposals had at first been made through the Queen-Mother,
Henrietta Maria; but at a later stage the Earl of St. Albans (Jermyn) was
deputed to act for the King. The wheels of the negotiations drove heavily,
and suspicion clogged the proceedings on both sides; but it became clear
that both sides desired peace. Breda was now named, on the suggestion of
the English King, as the meeting-place for the wider negotiations, and was
accepted by the Dutch. But their intentions were still doubtful, and even
when the negotiations opened at Breda, in May, 1667, they absolutely
declined a proposal for a cessation of hostilities pending the
negotiations. De Witt had not yet given up "the great thoughts of heart"
that the burning of Schelling had raised, nor had he dismissed his
"resolution of revenge before any peace should be thought of." He was not
without hope from the state of the English fleet; he knew well that the
English Treasury was in no position to meet new outlays; and he counted
upon the depression caused by pestilence and the Fire. The city would be
hard put to it to advance money on the credit of the supplies newly voted.

As a fact, the largest ships of the fleet were actually laid up. Only the
lighter vessels which could act against the enemy's merchantmen were kept
in commission, and the necessary defences of the kingdom were reduced to a
minimum, in reckless reliance on the speedy conclusion of the peace
negotiations. It was that prime object of Clarendon's dislike, Sir William
Coventry, who was responsible for this act of treasonable neglect. Such
was the position, when De Ruyter's fleet appeared at the Nore on June
10th, 1667. The Dutch Fleet divided; one division moved up to Gravesend;
another broke through the defences of the Medway, [Footnote: Works were in
progress at Sheerness, and the King had visited the place, and given
orders for new fortifications. The Commissioners of the Admiralty had been
too busy with peculations to carry them out.] burned the guardships,
captured the first-class warship, the _Royal Charles_, and next day
pursued their advantage further, and burned three more first-class ships
of war. The guns were heard in London, and for the first time for six
hundred years, the way seemed open for the invader. The citizens of London
realized the straits to which the folly of their rulers had brought them.
[Footnote: Disastrous and disgraceful as was the episode, the alarm and
confusion which it caused at Court seemed to Clarendon even more
degrading. "All they who had most advanced the war and reproached all who
had been against it, as men who had no public spirit, and were not
solicitous for the honour and glory of the nation; and who had never
spoken of the Dutch but with scorn and contempt, as a nation rather worthy
to be cudgelled than fought with, were now the most dejected men, railed
very bitterly at those who had advised the King to enter into that war--
and wished that a peace, as the only hope, were made on any terms"
(_Life_, iii. 251). The braggart repeats himself in all ages and all
nations.]

These exploits, serious as they were, marked the limit of the Dutch
success. Their memory would not soon be wiped out, and they inflicted a
sore wound upon the pride of England. But De Witt could not hazard the
impossible. Other attempts were made elsewhere--at Portsmouth and at
Plymouth--but they were easily repelled. Even De Witt could feel that his
resolution of revenge was satisfied, and he allowed the negotiations at
Breda to proceed. On July 21st, treaties were there signed with France,
with Holland, and with Denmark. Peace was based upon the maintenance of
the _status quo_; no cession of territory was to take place. The
rights of commerce and of navigation were to be as provided by the treaty
of 1662. Never was a costly and devastating war entered upon more
recklessly, conducted, on our side at least, with more helpless
inefficiency, and closed with a smaller result in any change which it
effected. The people of England accepted peace as a relief; they found in
it neither honour, nor compensation for their heavy loss.

A point of no little importance may be noted before we conclude the
narrative of this disastrous war, to which Clarendon was so bitterly
opposed, and for which he was afterwards so unjustly blamed. Before the
negotiations were completed, while the impression of the bold attack of De
Witt was still heavy upon the country, and when his ships still threatened
the dockyards and the home counties bordering on the Thames, a
constitutional question of some difficulty arose. It was necessary
suddenly to levy troops and incur heavy expenses for the defences of each
bank of the river. No provision had been made for this, and Parliament was
prorogued until October 20th. It was debated in Council whether Parliament
could be summoned in anticipation of that date, or how otherwise money
could be obtained. Clarendon saw that the meeting of Parliament could only
increase the prevailing alarm, that it might lead to serious confusion,
and that as a means of obtaining money, its grants would be so delayed as
to be useless. For himself he held that Parliament could not legally be
summoned in advance of the date proclaimed; and he strongly urged that
money could be legally provided by way of loan, to be deducted from next
assessment. After full debate the point was decided contrary to his
advice: but fortunately before Parliament met, the peace had been
concluded, and the emergency was gone. The vexed question of special
supplies, and of the extraordinary powers of the Crown, was thus luckily
avoided. But Clarendon's contention was soon to form a good handle of
attack to his enemies.




CHAPTER XXII

ADMINISTRATIVE FRICTION


In order to be a great Foreign Minister, a statesman must follow one of
two courses. He must either hold the internal affairs of the country in a
grasp of iron, so securely as to impose an effectual guard against their
ever becoming a source of trouble or agitation; or else he must abandon
these affairs to a knot of subsidiary and secondary agents, who will be
content to steer strictly according to the course which he has laid down.
Cromwell is a good specimen of the first; Chatham is the most conspicuous
example of the second. Circumstances did not allow Clarendon to pursue
either course, and his efforts to guide his country through the stormy sea
of foreign politics were foredoomed to failure. He could look back with
little satisfaction on the waste of life and treasure in the war now
closed. He was thwarted by a crowd of jealous intriguers at home, and his
intentions and directions as to foreign politics were often set aside by
such an agent as Downing.

But from foreign affairs we have now to turn to those matters of internal
politics which had necessarily occupied much of Clarendon's attention
while the war was in progress. Here, again, he had to tread a thorny path.
It seemed as if there was no possible source of mischief which did not add
something to his troubles. He saw that the recklessness of the courtiers
was breeding irritation and contempt towards the Crown, and weakening the
nerves and sinews of the nation. All he could now hope for in the King
was, that he might to some extent hide the scandals of his Court, and not
be entirely led away by the more dangerous spirits in it. Efficient aid
from his master, Clarendon had ceased to expect; it would be well if the
worst gang amongst the courtiers could at least be persuaded to interfere
as little as might be with affairs of State.

Meanwhile the signs of widespread disaffection were clearly visible to
Clarendon, and the existence of dangerous conspiracies was confirmed by
the strongest evidence. These were not the less threatening because they
were disseminated throughout the most dissimilar sections of society, and
were actuated by the most opposite aims. The wilder sects of the
Independents were avowedly animated by revolutionary schemes, and violent
preachers advocated them in their "congregated churches," where they
regularly assembled, in various parts of London, and stirred one another
to frenzy by aspirations for the rule of the saints. Restless discontent,
disappointed ambition, the jealousy of jarring factions at Court, all
found ready instruments in the enthusiasts who revived many of the strange
vagaries of doctrine that had been rife during the Civil War. Anabaptists
and Millenarians, Fifth-monarchy men and Levellers--all were mingled
together in the cauldron of religious and political frenzy. The reckless
vanity of a courtier like Buckingham found it useful to cultivate the
good-will of the more ardent sectaries. The Civil War had left an ample
crop of bravos, who were to be hired for any outrage, and whose excesses
added to the restless uneasiness that prevailed, and that made men
nervously apprehensive of revolution. The religious enthusiast, and the
blustering cut-throat of Alsatia, were equally open to the persuasions of
any turbulent faction which sought to defy the law. The forces of order
which Clarendon commanded were but scanty. The elements of turbulence were
overwhelming in number, and were weakened only by their confusion and
diversity. It was not Clarendon alone who saw and dreaded the danger of
disturbance. His fears were shared even by those counsellors, such as
Clifford and Arlington, who were his jealous opponents; and it was only
too evident how many sources of combustion went to feed the flame of
discontent. The Presbyterians, however little in sympathy with the aims of
the wilder sectaries, were bitterly disappointed at the ecclesiastical
settlement, and deemed that their Royalist leanings had been rewarded by
the basest ingratitude. The burden of taxation was excessive, and its
irksomeness was sorely aggravated by the added misfortunes of the Plague
and the Fire. The confidence of the city was shaken, and the monied men
shrank from making advances to a discredited administration. Even those
amongst the opponents of the Court for whom the title of patriot has been
claimed--perhaps on flimsy grounds,--were not ashamed to negotiate with
the French King, or the Dutch Pensionary, and to offer their services to
the enemies of their country. [Footnote: On June 9, 1665, Downing writes
to Clarendon that Algernon Sidney was at Breda, disguised as a Frenchman,
on his way to the Hague; and that "others of that gang" were flocking to
the Dutch as enthusiastic allies.] It seemed as if every evil which Divine
vengeance, religious frenzy, human folly, foreign enemies abroad, and
deep-rooted political discontent at home, could engender, were poured out
into the welter of confusion that reigned in England during these unhappy
years. In such a turbid flood had Clarendon to steer the ship of State.

It was this general confusion, and the dangers which it threatened, that
formed the theme of the King's Speech to Parliament at the opening of the
session in March, 1664. That Speech was doubtless composed by Clarendon,
and may be taken as expressing his views. [Footnotes: It is given by
Clarendon (_Life_, ii. 281) with a fullness which proves that he had
the notes of it still in his possession.] "The spirits of many of our old
enemies," it said, "were still active." Old conspiracies, detected in the
capital, had shown themselves once more in the provinces.

"The malcontents were still pursuing the same consultation, and have
correspondence with desperate persons in most counties, and a standing
council in the metropolis, from which they receive their directions, and
by whom they were advised to defer their last intended insurrection."
"These desperate men," he proceeded, "have not been all of one mind in the
ways of carrying on their wicked resolutions. Some would still insist upon
the authority of the Long Parliament, of which, they say, they have
members enough willing to meet; others have fancied to themselves by some
computation of their own, upon some clause of the Triennial Bill, that
this present Parliament was at an end some months since; and that, for
want of new writs, they may assemble themselves and choose members of
Parliament."

Then follows a passage which has caused much searching of hearts amongst
our Whig historians.

"I confess to you, my Lords and Gentlemen, I have often myself read over
that Bill; and though there is no colour for the fancy of the
determination of this Parliament, yet I will not deny to you, that I have
always expected that you would, and even wondered that you have not
considered the wonderful clauses of the Bill, which passed in a time very
uncareful for the dignity of the Crown, or the security of the people....
I need not tell you how much I love Parliaments. Never King was so much
beholden to Parliaments as I have been, nor do I think the Crown can ever
be happy without frequent Parliaments. But, assure yourselves, if I should
think otherwise, I could never suffer a Parliament to come together by the
means prescribed in that Bill." [Footnote: In a note upon this passage,
Mr. Lister assumes that it means only that the King pledged himself to
summon a Parliament within the prescribed time, rather than allow it to
meet by the operation of the Act; but that he did not contemplate anything
but submission to the Act, in the event of failure of such summons. He
differs--with some hesitation--from Mr. Hallam, who stigmatizes it as "an
audacious declaration, equivalent to an avowed design, in certain
circumstances, of preventing the execution of the laws by force of arms"--
a declaration such as "was never before heard from the lips of an English
King." We take the liberty of agreeing with Hallam's interpretation as
against Lister's, but of dissenting from Hallam's estimate of the
culpability of the avowal.]

It is absurd to think it needful either to explain away such a plain
statement of policy, or to attribute to its author any constitutional
crime. The King declared his intention to have constant recourse to
Parliaments. But he also declared, with good reason, not only that he gave
no weight whatever to the baseless assumption that a new Parliament must
be elected every three years, but also that he would never feel himself
justified, by the provisions of an Act of Parliament passed under evil
auspices, in permitting a Parliament to be elected under conditions which
necessarily implied a complete subversion of every constitutional
principle. There is such a thing as pedantic reverence for statute law. It
is perfectly clear that a statute which provided that electors might
proceed themselves to elect their representatives, and that sovereign
power should be committed to these representatives, virtually assumes a
state of anarchy to prevail. No constituted authority could, consistently
with its fundamental duty, ever contemplate a case in which it could
voluntarily permit such procedure. Far from proclaiming an intention to
infringe the constitution, Charles only uttered a commonplace of
administrative duty. It is perfectly clear that to permit the course
indicated in the Triennial Act would be to bring into being not one
Parliament, but as many Parliaments as there were different factions in
the country, free to meet together and chose their own representatives as
and how they pleased. In such a case effective government would have
ceased to exist. The Speech from the Throne had at least the desired
effect. The Bill for the repeal of the Triennial Act passed rapidly
through both Houses. Parliament was not to be intermitted for more than
three years; but the enactment was buttressed by none of the obnoxious
provisions of the previous Act, which would have preserved the fiction of
a free Parliament by a resort to the methods of anarchy, and by assuming
that such methods were consistent with constitutional and settled
government.

But further measures appeared necessary to secure the safety of Church and
Crown. Alarm had been created by the threatening tone of the addresses in
the "congregated churches," where the preachers drew their most effective
metaphors from the language of the camp and the battlefield, and where he
was heard with most reverence who depicted in the most lurid language the
doom which overhung the Court and the Church, and of which it was the duty
of every devout enthusiast to make himself the instrument. To check this
it was deemed necessary to proscribe Conventicles, and a new Bill was
introduced, and rapidly passed, declaring any meeting of more than five
persons for religious services, otherwise than in accordance with the
Liturgy of the Church, to be "a seditious and unlawful conventicle." The
penalty for attendance was, in the case of a first offender, to be a fine
of five pounds, or three months' imprisonment; ten pounds, or six months
for a second offence; and thereafter transportation, or a fine of one
hundred pounds. It is, of course, easy to denounce this Act on the
specious and readily accepted principle of religious toleration. But, as
it met with no opposition in a Parliament where there was already a party
prepared to thwart the measures of the Court, we must assume that the
general sense of danger appeared to justify it beyond possibility of
contradiction. We must at least not forget, in judging the justification
of the Act, that it embodied the same principles which were applied until
the last quarter of the eighteenth century, under a succession of Whig
administrations, to assemblies of Episcopalian adherents in Scotland, and
of Roman Catholics in both countries. If the principle of religious
toleration is to be a universal guide, it is difficult to say why the
maxims it enjoins should be held to apply only in the case of
Presbyterians and Independents. Whatever the blame to be measured out to
the promoters of the Act, there is no ground for exempting Clarendon from
his share of responsibility. Our estimate of the weight of that
responsibility will vary according as we judge the real danger of the
situation. That there was widespread and implacable disaffection, there
can be no reasonable doubt. That it was fostered to a very large extent by
the earnest sympathy, and the stimulating harangues, of the sectarian
preachers, admits of just as little doubt. Rumours of plots were
thickening day by day. Evidence was forthcoming of a plan for seizing the
Tower, and one, Colonel Danvers, who was concerned in it, was rescued from
the hands of the King's officers by open force. [Footnote: Pepys, August
5th, 1665.] The Plague not unnaturally increased the panic that prevailed;
and the air seemed darkened by vague threatenings, in which war,
pestilence, and famine cast their gloomy shadows over the land. It is hard
to say how Clarendon, or any other Minister, could have withstood the
determination of Parliament to make adequate provision against what it
deemed to be impending dangers.

The increasing prevalence of the Plague forced the Court and Parliament
once again, in 1665, to move to Oxford; and there legislation followed the
same course. Still further security was deemed necessary against the
dissenting clergy, and a new Bill was introduced, providing that all non-
conforming clergy should take the oath of non-resistance--declaring that
it was unlawful on any pretence, to take up arms against the King, and
that they would at no time endeavour any alteration of government in
Church and State; and providing that those who refused the oath should be
incapable of teaching in schools, and should not be permitted to reside
within five miles [Footnote: Hence its popular name of "The Five Mile
Act."] of any city or burgh returning members to Parliament, or of any
place where they had acted as ministers of religion.

The Bill was evidently conceived under the influence of a panic. Absurd as
were its provisions, they would perhaps not have been so severely
condemned, under the high ethical standard of later historians, had they
not been accompanied by the almost humorous provision that the penalties
should be escaped by an oath, which not the most compliant Nonconformists
could possibly have accepted. Sarcastic pleasantries of that sort always
bring upon coercive legislation a heavier condemnation than it would
otherwise incur.

Whatever its merits or demerits, the Bill was one which the House of
Commons was determined to have, and which it passed without a division. It
was only in the Lords that it met with opposition. There its chief
advocate was Archbishop Sheldon, whose inclination coincided with what he
naturally believed to be his duty--to press every advantage for the
Church. Sheldon was faithful to his convictions, and frankly desirous of
securing the Church against any new efforts of the Nonconformists. His
attitude was that of the stalwart ecclesiastical protagonist, whose
business it was to avenge the wrongs of the Church, not to conciliate her
foes; and considerations of what was prudent in secular politics had no
concern for him. Between Sheldon and Clarendon there was the sympathy of
old and tried friendship and of comradeship in many a hard fight. But
Clarendon, faithful friend of the Church as he was, did not always see eye
to eye with ecclesiastics. We have seen how often and how severely he
could criticize them; and his sympathy with their general object did not
always commend to him their methods. His doubts might not always lead him
to assume an attitude of open and direct opposition. Deliberate abstention
might be just as effective, and was less liable to be misunderstood by the
friends of the Church. As a fact, in this case Clarendon was absent from
the debates owing to his persistent enemy, the gout. He expresses no
opinion adverse or otherwise upon the Act, of which he omits to make any
mention. This sufficiently indicates his attitude towards it; and his own
closest political ally, Southampton, offered direct opposition to the Bill
in the Lords. Whatever his loyalty to the Church, Southampton declared, he
could take no oath to pledge himself against any alteration, which he
might even "see cause to endeavour."

We need have little doubt as to which way Clarendon's sympathies went in
the dispute between his two old friends. But indeed the passing of the
Bill depended upon no individual views and upon the action of no Minister.
The House of Commons was more Royalist than the King--more orthodox than
the Church. Charles was finding out now what he was to find out more
surely as time went on, that the bull-headed obstinacy of his friends
might be quite as troublesome as the intrigues and plottings of his foes.
It would have been dangerous either for King or Minister to resist the
impetuosity of Parliamentary intolerance. We cannot assume sympathy on
Clarendon's part with these exaggerations of loyalty to the Church, from
his general commendation of the Parliament at Oxford, and its legislation
as a whole. It had, he tells us, "preserved that excellent harmony that
the King had proposed." "Never Parliament so entirely sympathized with his
Majesty;" "It passed more Acts for his honour and security than any other
had ever done in so short a session." All this was strictly true; and that
Parliament doubtless did not lose favour in Clarendon's eyes, because it
met at Oxford, and amidst those congenial surroundings which reminded him
of the old days, and the old fights amongst comrades whose aims were
purer, and their hearts higher, than the actors on the present stage.
Clarendon might, however, be fully persuaded of the honest aims of the
Parliamentary Cavaliers, without approving all their methods or being
blind to the danger these methods involved.

We have now to turn to another aspect of the work of this session, which
concerned Clarendon much more directly, and which aroused in him not mere
doubts of its expediency, but direct and deeply-felt conviction of its
pernicious tendency. It is a matter which it is worth examining with some
care, because it struck at Clarendon's fundamental theory of
administration, and aroused in him an antipathy which may easily be
misunderstood if we do not apprehend exactly what it involved.

In no sphere of administration did more difficult problems emerge after
the Restoration than in that of Finance. It was then, as it always must
be, the pivot upon which all constitutional questions turned; and it was
this which had given to Parliament the lever by which the monarchy had
been overturned. When the Restoration took place, it was natural that some
of the older usages in regard to finance should be revived. Cromwell had
dictated their course to those feeble figments of Parliamentary
representation which he had allowed to exist, and had crushed out any
financial liberties which they might be supposed to possess. A regular
system of assessment, by the quarter or the month, had been laid upon the
counties. The real responsibility for this had rested with local
functionaries acting under the direct orders of the executive; and its
regularity caused it to be submitted to without resistance. Excise had
been established, as we have seen, during the Civil War, as a temporary
expedient, destined to be permanent; and any sudden alteration of this
would have led to financial confusion. The old system of subsidies, of
which a certain number were voted according to the exigencies of the time,
and the power of the Government to influence Parliament, had been
abandoned. When the Restoration came, these subsidies were for a while
resumed. But at the same time a regular revenue of £1,200,000 was granted
to the Crown, and provision was supposed to be made for it by assigning
certain taxes, and the produce of the Excise, for the purpose. But this
was found to be inadequate to realize the stated income, and that income
was found inadequate to meet the increasing expenditure, especially when
the defence of England's commercial interests had to be maintained by a
large and costly fleet. When the enormous and unprecedented grant of
£2,500,000 was made to the Crown for the Dutch war, it was provided that
it should be realized, not by the old method of subsidies, but by twelve
quarterly assessments extending over three years. Clarendon's aim was by
no means to place the Crown in a position of financial irresponsibility.
He realized that Parliament had a place in the Constitution as well as the
Crown, and had no desire to minimize the financial independence of
Parliament, or to free the Crown from the necessity of regular resort to
Parliament for such special and extraordinary grants as might be
necessary. But he thought that the Crown should be provided with a regular
revenue to meet ordinary expenses; and that it should be required to apply
to Parliament only for any increase of that revenue if special exigencies
should arise. But the revenue, so granted, should belong to the Crown,
which should be free to administer it according to the judgment of the
Ministers of the Crown. Parliament possessed the prerogative of making the
grant, and thereby of imposing conditions upon it. But once made, the
Ministers of the Crown were to be responsible for its application. Any
maladministration would be subject of punishment by the Crown, or, if need
be, of impeachment by the Parliament.

The abandonment of the system of subsidies almost necessarily led to
another far-reaching change. Separate subsidies had formerly been granted
by Parliament in respect of the nation, and by Convocation in respect of
the Church. The right of making independent grants was a doubtful
privilege for the Church, and would, had it continued, have caused endless
confusion to the Exchequer. It was abandoned by consent. No statute
abolished it. It was an old usage, but rested upon little more than usage;
and it was abolished, once and for all, not by statute, but by arrangement
between Sheldon and the leaders of the Church, on the one hand, and
Clarendon and Southampton on the other. It was an instance of the
abandonment of an ancient principle, sanctioned by the usage of centuries
and intimately bound up with the relations between Church and State, by no
action of the legislature, but solely by the action of the Crown. At the
same time, by an almost more startling extension of the prerogative, the
clergy were compensated by being allowed to take part in the election of
Parliamentary representatives.

The method by which the grants given by Parliament could be made available
for national expenditure had been found easy and convenient. For this
purpose the help of the bankers, who were generally goldsmiths of high
standing, was invoked. Clarendon gives us a detailed account of the usage.
Half a dozen of the leading monied men of the city were summoned to the
council chamber. They knew the amount of grant made by Parliament, and
were asked to what extent they were prepared to make advances upon this
amount. They did so in reliance upon the faith of the King and the Lord
Treasurer, and upon the certainty that any failure to fulfil its
obligations on the part of the Exchequer would inevitably lead to national
loss of credit, and consequent bankruptcy. If the current rate of interest
was 6 per cent., they advanced the money at 8 per cent., and counted on
the 2 per cent. to recoup them. Clarendon thought the rate fair, and found
the method eminently convenient. But the bankers relied solely upon the
good faith and prudence of the Minister. There was nothing to prevent the
King making an assignment of the revenue, as it came in, to purposes other
than the reimbursement of the bankers. The only guarantee against this was
the good faith of the responsible Minister and the certainty that the
Crown must submit its case to Parliament should the need of further grant
arise. The King had to adapt his expenditure to his revenue; but the
application of revenue to any particular branch of the expenditure was, in
Clarendon's view, a matter for himself and his responsible Ministers.

On more than one occasion in the past grants from Parliament had been
expressly assigned to specific purposes, and such an arrangement had
unquestionably much to commend it. But a long time often intervened
between the making of a grant and the realization of revenue. Money had to
be procured at once, and before the tax yielded revenue new needs had
arisen, and new expenditure had to be incurred. The system of
appropriating supplies would undoubtedly make the financial administration
more mechanical, circumscribe the responsibility of Ministers, and cripple
the power of the Crown in applying revenue towards pressing objects.
Unforeseen savings--though these, indeed, were not an item of much
importance in the financial administration of Charles's reign--could not,
under such a system, be applied to new exigencies without a further
warrant from Parliament. The whole system of appropriation, however
defensible on the modern maxims of sound finance, was inconvenient in
working, and tended to increase the dependence of the Crown on Parliament,
and to diminish at once the discretion and the responsibility of Ministers
of the Crown.

It was during the Parliament at Oxford in 1665 that this fundamental
change in the financial system was pressed forward by the personal
jealousy of that clique at Court which sought the ruin of Southampton and
Clarendon. Specious arguments could easily be brought forward against the
greed and extortion of the bankers, who were realizing fortunes by the
loose financial administration which made the King's revenue pass through
their hands, and subjected it to a heavy toll upon which they throve. Once
revenue was assigned to a specific object, the credit of the Crown, it was
alleged, would be enormously enhanced, and it would be perfectly easy to
establish a State bank, on the model of that in Amsterdam, which would be
a perennial source from which money might be drawn as required. And this
facility of supply would be joined with purity of financial
administration; Parliament would know exactly what was done with the money
that it voted; leakages would be stopped, and peculation would cease to be
possible.

The arguments were at once specious and inviting. But in truth the real
motives which prompted the new proposals were jealousy of Southampton and
Clarendon and personal ambition. The prime mover was Sir George Downing,
that turbulent and versatile political adventurer, who had run through the
whole gamut of political tergiversation, and who, as envoy to Holland, had
long worried Clarendon by the pertinacity with which he had provoked the
jealousy of the Dutch and had done all in his power to precipitate the
war. He had contrived to secure appointment as one of the Tellers of the
Exchequer, was in close confederacy with Bennet, now Lord Arlington, and
was scheming with him to oust the influence of the Chancellor and the
Treasurer. His perquisites, as Teller of the Exchequer, were lessened by
the assignment of taxes to the bankers in return for their advances, and
as the proceeds of the taxes did not pass through the Exchequer, the
percentage to the Tellers was thereby diminished. The position of Lord
Southampton was difficult to assail. "His reputation was so great, his
wisdom so unquestionable, and his integrity so confessed, that they knew
in neither of those points he could be impeached." [Footnote: _Life_,
iii. 2.] The King was still faithful to his Treasurer, and insinuations as
to his increasing age and unfitness for active business did not shake his
confidence. But Southampton's enemies were strengthened by the support of
Ashley, who, though his advancement was due to his relationship to
Southampton by marriage, was beginning to feel that he might well rid
himself of the ladder by which he had climbed, and that he himself would
be a very competent Treasurer. It was only when he perceived that his
confederates might not aid this ambition that he became more lukewarm in
his support of their schemes.

There was at least one convenience in the present system. The facile
humour of the King led him to assign revenues to suitors who had no very
creditable claims to reward. It was convenient to him to shift to the
Chancellor and the Treasurer the odium of refusing to endorse these
grants. Their watchful jealousy against inroads upon the national
resources increased the number of their enemies; but it saved the King
from the irksome burden of refusal. It was speciously urged against this
that the root of all the financial difficulties was

"the unlimited power of the Lord Treasurer, that no money could issue out
without his particular direction, and all money was paid upon no other
rules than his order; so that, let the King want as much as was possible,
no money could be paid by him without the Treasurer's warrant." [Footnote:
_Life_, iii. 5.]

It was a persuasive argument for Charles's ears. The popular pretence went
only a little way. The real aim--and this it was that attracted the King--
was that personal authority should be eliminated, and that he should no
longer be subject to the galling supervision of the two Ministers, whose
bull-dog honesty was so often inconvenient. Meanwhile the minds of the
members of the House were cunningly prepared for the reception of the new
design, by invectives against the bankers. They were "cheats,
bloodsuckers, extortioners." Their enemies "would have them looked upon as
the causes of all the King's necessities and of the want of monies
throughout the kingdom." [Footnote: _Ibid._, p. 7.]

When the Bill for supply was brought in by the Solicitor-General, Downing
found his opportunity. He proposed a proviso, the object of which was "to
make all the money that was to be raised by the Bill to be applied only to
those ends to which it was given, and to no other purpose whatsoever, by
what authority soever." The restrictions thus imposed upon the royal
authority were viewed with jealousy by many, who found in them a renewal
of that financial supremacy of the Commons which had been the symptom of
the approach of the rebellion. Cromwell, it was pointed out, had himself
seen the inconvenience of such restrictions, and had refused to submit to
them. The proviso would have been defeated, had not Downing assured the
Solicitor-General that the proviso was proposed by the King's own
direction. After the House had risen, the King sent for the Solicitor-
General, and "forbade him any more to oppose that proviso, for that it was
much for his service." [Footnote: _Ibid._, p. 11.] He refused to
listen to any remonstrances. "He would bear the inconveniences which would
ensue upon his own account, for the benefits which would accrue." Downing
took care to strengthen these favourable resolutions of the King. "He
would make his Exchequer the best and the greatest bank in Europe, where
all Europe would, when it was once understood, pay in their money for the
certain profit it would yield, and the indubitable certainty that they
should receive their money." He would, he assured the King, "erect the
King's Exchequer into the same degree of credit that the Bank of Amsterdam
stood upon." He forgot to tell the King that such credit could only be
established by eliminating the personal influence and authority of the
Crown over finance. That was no doubt a change which must come. But it
formed no part of Charles's calculation, and it was opposed to Clarendon's
theory of monarchy. Clarendon states the case with precision. Downing
propounded his scheme

"without weighing that the security for monies so deposited in banks (such
as that of Amsterdam) is the republic itself, which must expire before
that security can fail; which can never be depended on in a monarchy,
where the monarch's sole word can cancel all those formal provisions which
can be made." [Footnote: _Life_, iii. 13.]

Anxious as he was for financial purity and for a due interdependence of
King and Parliament, Clarendon was not disposed to part with this
prerogative of the Crown. Downing and his allies were equally aware that
to abandon it was no part of Charles's thoughts. It would be absurd to
argue back from later days when such a claim on the part of the Crown was
a thing of the past. The essence of the plan, which made it palatable to
the King and the object of all Downing's scheming, was that "it was to
new-model the whole Government of the country, in which the King resolved
to have no more superior officers." The power of these superior officers
was an incubus of which Charles longed to rid himself.

The Bill passed the House of Commons, and was brought to the Lords. Such
Bills, says Clarendon in an interesting passage, [Footnote: _Life_, iii.
13.] "seldom stay long with the Lords."

"Of custom, which they call privilege, they are first begun in the House
of Commons, where they endure long deliberation, and when they are
adjusted there, they seem to pass through the House of Peers with the
reading twice and formal commitment, in which any alterations are very
rarely made, except in any impositions which are laid upon their
(_i.e._ the Lords') own persons." "The same endorsement that is sent
up by the Commons is usually the Bill itself that is presented to the King
for his royal assent."

It is to be observed that Clarendon is speaking of custom only, not of
right; and he is careful to add that such Bills are "no more valid without
their (the Lords') consent than without that of the other (the Commons);
and they may alter any clause in them that they do not think for the good
of the people." Only "the Lords use not to put any stop on the passage of
such Bills, much less diminish what is offered by them to the King."

But in spite of such usage, the new provisions of the Bill so alarmed
those in the House of Lords who understood the matter, as to prompt them
to an alteration. Both the Chancellor and the Treasurer were confined by
illness, and neither of them had received notice of the Bill. It was only
when their colleagues in the House of Lords informed them of its purport
that they resolved to resist what they believed to be a deadly blow to the
power of the Crown, albeit dealt with the sanction and active approval of
the King.

By this time Ashley, who, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, found his own
prerogatives threatened, had definitely ranged himself against those with
whom he had been associated in plotting against Clarendon and Southampton.
His fertile wit supplied new arguments, and helped him to alarm the King.
Charles

"was contented that the matter should be debated in his presence; and
because the Chancellor was in his bed, thought his chamber to be the
fittest place for the consultation; and the Lord Treasurer, though
indisposed and apprehensive of the gout, could yet use his feet, and was
very willing to attend his Majesty there, without the least imagining that
he was aimed at."

Clarendon could no longer rely upon an effective ally in his aged
colleague.

Besides the King and the Duke of York and the two chief Ministers there
were present Ashley, Arlington, and Coventry. The law officers were there
to advise; and Downing was admitted that he might answer the objections to
his scheme. Ashley began the discussion by inveighing against the proviso.
The King checked this "by declaring that whatsoever had been done in the
whole transaction of it had been with his privity and approbation, and the
whole blame must be laid to his own charge, who, it seems, was like to
suffer most by it." Whatever the tendency of the proviso, it is clear that
such action made an end of all real ministerial responsibility, if the
chief Ministers of the Crown were to find their authority undermined by
schemes which the King might concoct with inferior officers. The
appropriation of supplies might be a step towards financial control; but
it was bought at a heavy cost if it was to be achieved by backstairs
influence against the advice of the King's responsible advisers. Clarendon
was not prepared to accept what he believed to be a breach of the Crown's
constitutional prerogative; but, compared with his master, he had
travelled far on the road towards constitutional monarchy. Charles's
nonchalant surrender of the powers of the Crown was carried out with
cynical disregard of all the principles of the constitution.

But the King did not refuse to admit the force of some of the adverse
arguments. He confessed "that they had given some reasons against it which
he had not thought of, and which in truth he could not answer," and he was
waiting to hear it argued further. The first objection was its novelty.
The new proviso would form a dangerous precedent, which would hereafter
appear in every Bill. The King would not be "master of his own money, nor
the Ministers of his revenue be able to assign monies to meet any casual
expenses." The authority of the Treasurer and the Chancellor of the
Exchequer must be vested in the Tellers of the Exchequer, who were
subordinate officers. Clarendon's comment upon this is characteristic of
his best vein of grave sarcasm.

"The King had in his nature so little reverence for antiquity, and did in
truth so much contemn old orders, forms, and institutions, that the
objections of novelty rather advanced than obstructed any proposition. He
was a great lover of new inventions, and thought them the effects of wit
and spirit, and fit to control the superstitious observation of the
dictates of our ancestors; so that objection made little impression."

Many sore trials to his patience have lent point and acid to Clarendon's
satirical picture of a master, whose cynicism made him fancy that blind
pursuit of novelty sat well upon the occupant of a throne that rested
chiefly upon ancient usage, and upon the glamour of reverence which that
usage brought.

The overpowering temptation to the King was the chimera of a bank which,
it was represented, would be created by this new proviso. It was in vain
that Clarendon showed that the hope was an empty one; that heavy interest
would have to be paid for advances; that good husbandry, and that alone,
could restore order to the finances. Downing was an adept in specious
argument. "He wrapped himself up, according to his custom, in a mist of
words that nobody could see light in, but they who by often hearing the
same chat thought they understood it."

To the King's credit it must be counted that he was not indifferent to the
injustice involved to the bankers, who had already advanced large sums, on
the credit of the King and his Minister, for which, under the new proviso,
they could receive no reimbursement, and might thus be ruined. That and
the other arguments impressed him. He went so far as to "wish that the
matter had been better consulted," and confessed that Downing "had not
answered many of the objections." But the balance of personal convenience,
and the facilities which Downing lavishly promised, in the end carried the
day. That vein of obstinacy, which was entwined with the love of ease in
Charles, determined him to adopt an expedient, hazardous, indeed, but
which promised some hope of financial fruit, and had been propounded on
the King's own orders. Perhaps Clarendon himself contributed to this
result by the natural, but imprudent, outbreak of indignation which moved
him in the King's own presence to scold Downing in no measured terms. To
do so was almost the same as to administer the scolding to the King
himself; and even a temper so easy as that of Charles could hardly have
taken such an outburst in good part.

"It was impossible," Clarendon told Downing, "for the King to be well
served whilst fellows of his condition were admitted to speak as much as
they had a mind to; and that, in the best times, such presumptions had
been punished with imprisonment by the Lords of the Council without the
King taking notice of it."

Clarendon himself seems to have felt that such an utterance, in the
presence of the King, to one whom the King declared to have acted on his
orders, was a straining of courtly etiquette which required some apology.
It was uttered, he tells us, in the extremity of bodily pain; and he
thought "it did not exceed the privilege and the dignity of the place he
held." Clarendon certainly set himself no very strict bonds of courtliness
in the freedom of his utterances to his King. On this particular occasion
his plain speaking seems to have rankled.

What, then, was the real meaning of this change, so bitterly resented by
Clarendon, and eventually adopted in the teeth of his advice by Parliament
and King? It is absurd to suppose that any consuming desire for financial
exactitude prompted the action of Downing, of Arlington, or of Coventry.
No doubt they anticipated one necessary result of full Parliamentary
control over finance, in the principle of appropriation. But what they
really desired was to eliminate the discretion, and thereby the control
over expenditure, which was exercised by the great officers of State. That
also was bound to come. The rapidly increasing range of administration and
of expenditure must inevitably have substituted routine rules and fixed
practice for the personal intervention, and the exercise of personal
authority, by those great officers of State. But Clarendon was loth to
part with this personal authority; he distrusted, with good reason, the
honesty and the independence of the inferior officials into whose hands
the administration of finance was intended to pass, and who could easily,
under the cover of routine practice, which relieved them from the
intervention of their superiors, conceal a system of malversation. The
change, indeed, embodied in its essentials the passing of authority from
the great responsible officers to a bureaucracy. Its full results could
not yet be seen. Its dangers have since then been prevented, and it is to
be hoped they may not again arise. But Clarendon saw in the change the
reversal of all former traditions; the diminishing of responsibility in
the high officers and the substitution for them of a lower grade of petty
officials, shielded by the great edifice of rules of routine in which they
become experts, and, as such, are unassailable. It was a change which was
bound to come. It was impossible that the vast machine of national finance
could be guided by rules laid down for each case by a responsible
Minister. The change was none the less a revolution, and was not more
welcome to Clarendon, in that it was carried out by the scheming of an
ambitious underling, working upon the facile temper of the King, who thus
hoped to have an ampler supply of revenue, freed from the control of
Ministers who could curb his extravagance.

The episode produced a marked increase of the estrangement between the
King and the Minister who had served him so well. Clarendon's fierce
denunciation of Downing's presumption rankled in Charles's memory, and
those about him took care that it should not be smoothed over. "Whatever
else was natural to wit sharpened with malice to suggest upon such an
argument, they enforced with warmth, that they desired might be taken for
zeal for his service and dignity, which was prostituted by those
presumptions of the Chancellor." [Footnote: _Life_, iii. 24.] Clarendon
soon learned the truth from the changed demeanour of the King. At first he
was at a loss to explain this; but Charles soon spoke in terms that could
not be mistaken, and expressed "a great resentment of it," as an
unpardonable insult. "And all this," adds Clarendon, "in a choler very
unnatural to him, which exceedingly troubled the Chancellor and made him
more discern, though he had evidence enough of it before, that he stood
upon very slippery ground." [Footnote: _Life_, iii. 25.] It was no
part of Clarendon's character to take such a rebuke in silence or to leave
it to pass gradually from the mind of the King. His conscience, he said,
had not reproached him; but since his Majesty thought his behaviour so
bad, "he must and did believe he had committed a great fault, for which he
did humbly ask his pardon." It was impossible, he said, that any one could
believe that he sought to keep the King from a clear view of his own
affairs; and none knew better than his Majesty how earnestly he had
striven "that his Majesty might never set his hand to anything before he
fully understood it upon such references and reports as, according to the
nature of the business, were to be for his full information." That innate
reverence for the power of the Crown, which was Clarendon's guiding
principle, could hardly have been united with sharper sarcasm upon the
business methods of the King.

To outward seeming the feeling of offence was removed. Charles had no wish
to resume the argument, and forbade him to believe "that it was or could
be in any man's power to make him suspect his affection or integrity to
his service." He covered any resentment he might feel with that
dissimulation of which he was so great a master; and soon after gave an
earnest of his continued good-will by promoting Clarendon's kinsman, Dr.
Hyde, to the Bishopric of Salisbury. "Nor was his credit with the King
thought to be lessened by anybody but himself, who knew more to that
purpose than other people could do." It may be doubted whether some of
Charles's familiars did not guess more shrewdly than Clarendon supposed.
The gossip of Pepys lets us know that the tongues of talebearers were not
silent.




CHAPTER XXIII

DECAY OF CLARENDON'S INFLUENCE


We must still look backwards a little in tracing the accumulating effect
of friction, of jealousy, and of slander, in sapping the power of
Clarendon.

He had not long to wait to see how adroit his many enemies were in
twisting to his disadvantage any irritation which Charles might feel. The
state of public affairs was sufficiently overclouded to make his anxieties
in any case very great. The war still dragged on its weary course (we are
now dealing with a period anterior to the peace already described), with
its heavy burden of expense and its ever-recurring disasters, relieved
only by occasional success. The combined calamity of the Fire and the
Plague increased the general depression, paralyzed trade, and made the
burden of taxation more severe. Repressive measures, if they had checked
rebellion, had left a troubled background of smouldering discontent, and
were sowing the seeds of future opposition to the Crown and to the Church.
The temper of the House of Commons, however pronounced its adhesion to the
Cavalier party, was stubborn and perverse; and stubbornness and perversity
are never so provoking in politics as when they are united with an
exaggeration of one's own opinion. The House resented almost with the tone
and in the spirit of the Long Parliament, the dictation--and Clarendon's
best friends must admit that his methods were apt to be dictatorial--of a
Minister who saw that its exaggerated Royalism might be itself a danger to
the Crown, and who was faithful to a theory of the constitution which
imposed limits at once upon King and upon Parliament. Clarendon belonged
to an older generation, and was unwilling to trim his sails to suit the
newer fashions. His pedantic constitutionalism--we are all apt to think
that notions which will not adopt themselves to our own practice are
pedantic--became unpalatable at once to King and Parliament. He was not
compliant enough to suit the prejudices of the stalwart Cavaliers; he had
no weapons wherewith to fight courtiers, such as Buckingham, who knew how
to make friends for themselves amongst those who condemned the Court and
all connected with it. It was the growing estrangement between him and the
House of Commons that added force to the schemes of his enemies.

Clarendon saw two symptoms of danger--in the attempts to detach from him
his most trusted friends and allies, and in the sure and gradual
advancement of those who were his sworn foes. His oldest and most trusted
comrade--from whom death was soon to part him--was the Treasurer, Lord
Southampton. Their friendship was the growth of years. In the earliest
days of the Civil war, Southampton, who had avoided, before its outbreak,
all connection with the Court, had joined the King's party with some
misgiving, but had brought to it the weight of unblemished character and
great debating power. He had striven, even against the inclination of the
King, to advance proposals for a treaty with Parliament; and his loyalty
did not blind him to the hopelessness of the struggle, or to what seemed
to him defects in the Royalist cause. Too proud to be a courtier, and too
sensible of the responsibility of great lineage and high station to be a
rebel, his aim was to steer a moderate course. In temper, as well as in
political views, he and Clarendon were closely united; and their mutual
confidence continued unbroken after the Restoration. Clarendon's enemies
found a convenient opportunity for kindling in the mind of Southampton
some petty offence, in the fact that Clarendon, at the instance of the
Duke of York and his daughter, the Duchess, had done something to promote
the claims to a Court appointment of a candidate other than that favoured
by Southampton. [Footnote: The post was one about the Court of the Queen,
and the two claimants were the son of Lord Montague, favoured by the Duke
and Duchess; and Robert Spencer, a relative of the Earl of Southampton.
Personally, Clarendon preferred the latter; but he had put forward the
name of the other at the solicitation of the Duke and his daughter without
much consideration, and without knowing that any other claimant was in the
field.] The matter was a trumpery one; but the irritation was fanned by
those who were eager to break the alliance of the older statesmen.
Southampton was a man who asked for few favours, and was all the more
incensed when he was made to understand that his old friend had stood in
his way, when for once he had stooped to make an application. Clarendon
soon discerned his old friend's ill-will, and took his usual course of
bringing it speedily to a clear issue. His own temper was hot, and for a
time "he grew out of humour too, and thought himself unworthily
suspected." But he soon thought better of it, and bluntly told the
Treasurer that "it should not be in his power to break friendship with
him, to gratify the humour of other people, without letting him know what
the matter was." The explanation was given; and mutual confidence was soon
restored between the two old allies. But Clarendon saw in the incident new
evidence of the sordid tricks that sought to entangle him in the petty
jealousy of rival cliques. "They who had contrived this device entered
into a new confederacy, how they might first remove the Treasurer, which
would facilitate the pulling the Chancellor down." [Footnote: _Life_,
ii. 454.] Clarendon found a sign of danger even more alarming in the
gradual advancement of those who were pledged to his enemies, and who
became their most useful tools. There was none whose influence, in this or
in other respects, was more baneful to Clarendon than the Duke of York.
The incidents of the Duke's first connection with his family were amongst
his bitterest memories; and although he never failed to show to his son-
in-law the respect due to the brother of the King, yet Clarendon found in
him a perpetual obstacle to his plans, an intriguer whose selfish aims and
jealous temper ever engendered fresh dissensions at Court, and a sullen
bigot whose moroseness was redeemed by none of his brother's easy suavity
of manner. The Duke's pride did not permit him openly to desert the
interests of his father-in-law or to range himself with Clarendon's
enemies. But his blundering tactlessness, his easily wounded vanity, and
his insatiable appetite for power, often led him to give encouragement to
those whose influence Clarendon knew to be pernicious. One of these was
Sir William Coventry, against whom Clarendon, as we have already seen,
cherished an invincible dislike, all the more marked because he had known
and reverenced his father, the former Chancellor. He knew Coventry's
restless ambition and how capable he was by boldness, by ability in
debate, and by adroitness in expedient, to supply the defects of the
stolid and slow intrigue of his patron, Arlington. Coventry had managed to
gain the confidence of the Duke and to be his trusted agent in the affairs
of the navy, where the Duke, as Lord High Admiral, was supreme; and
Clarendon knew that Coventry's influence boded no good to the moderate
policy which it was his own chief aim to pursue. It was by the Duke's
solicitation that Coventry now obtained the position of Privy Councillor,
and was admitted to the inner Cabinet, where no modesty prevented him from
opposing Clarendon at once in internal affairs and in foreign policy. An
opportunity soon offered itself to Coventry for proving his influence and
inflicting a deadly blow upon Sandwich, whose placid temper and essential
loyalty had made him one of Clarendon's chosen friends. At first Coventry
endeavoured vainly to insinuate doubts of Sandwich's capacity as a naval
commander; and when he failed there he soon found another means of attack.
[Footnote: This incident has already been briefly alluded to in connection
with the progress of the war. See above, p. 202.] Sandwich had, with much
rashness and in too ready compliance with the laxity which prevailed in
matters of public finance, yielded to the urgency of some of his flag
officers, and permitted the sale of some East India prizes captured from
the Dutch, in order to meet long-standing arrears of pay due to his
officers. He had referred the matter to the King, through the Vice-
Chamberlain, but, with singular carelessness, carried the transaction
through before he had received the royal approval. This gave Coventry just
the chance that he desired. Sandwich's action was a clear infringement of
the prerogative of the Duke as Lord High Admiral, through whom alone any
such favour could be conferred. Albemarle, incensed at what appeared a
flagrant breach of military discipline, became a powerful adherent of
Sandwich's enemies. Sandwich's own money difficulties were no secret, and
he himself was to benefit by the bounty, which he shared with his flag
officers, and against which the rest of the fleet was murmuring. He saw
too late the error that he had committed, and made his humble apologies to
the King and the Duke. But though he was able to appease their anger, the
evil to his own reputation was done, and his enemies were in no mood to
relieve him of it. Clarendon could not prevent his being deprived of his
naval command. Already Sandwich had incurred the jealousy of the old
Cavaliers, who grudged to one, once Cromwell's officer, the rewards which
had not come to their earlier loyalty. All that Clarendon could do was to
soften Sandwich's fall by procuring his appointment as ambassador to
Spain. The ablest of Charles's naval commanders was sacrificed because of
what, in the lax financial morality of the day, seemed only an error of
judgment; and the direction of naval affairs was thus placed almost
entirely in the hands of Coventry, who, as representing the Duke, could
issue commands and thwart the policy of the King's Ministers.

The same restless faction which had sought to sow dissension between the
Chancellor and the Treasurer, were not deterred, by failure, from new
efforts to break the influence of these two older Ministers. They were
busy gathering new recruits to their faction and insinuating them into
offices of trust; and now they thought they could undermine the fort by
driving Southampton into the resignation of his office. His character and
rank stood too high to make him an easy victim, or to encourage them to
any open attack. But they could suggest that his powers were waning; that
he was no longer equal to the task of guiding the finances of the nation;
that he was ruled by subordinates; and that consideration for his age
would make it only reasonable to relieve him of an irksome burden. They
knew that little persuasion was required to bring about his resignation of
a post which duty rather than inclination made him retain; and they
guessed, with good reason, that it was Clarendon's advice that chiefly
kept Southampton in office.

The procedure followed the usual course. First, Charles was persuaded that
his aged Treasurer was no longer equal to the duties of his office. It was
easy to suggest to him that his business would move more smoothly if the
pedantic methods, the vigilant care, and the cumbrous and dilatory
processes of the Lord Treasurer's office were simplified and expedited.
When he was duly impressed, the King had then to be brought to discharge
the ungracious task of conveying to the Chancellor the fact that the King
would welcome the Treasurer's relinquishment of his office. To do him
justice, Charles did not relish the part he was compelled to play. Even
his selfishness could not cloak its ugly ingratitude, and it suited ill
with his easy temper to be the medium of such an ungracious message. Nor
was it quite compatible with that royal dignity, which he did not always
cast aside, to be made the spokesman, to his more serious Minister, of a
conspiracy not unlike that of unruly schoolboys. The King knew by
experience that, master though he was, he could still be made
uncomfortable by hearing stern and plain truths, even in the ceremonious
diction in which his Chancellor knew how to clothe them.

The King began the interview--somewhat hypocritically--by "enlarging in a
great commendation of the Treasurer." But in spite of all his merits
Southampton "did not understand the mystery of that place, nor could his
nature go through with the necessary obligations of it." His ill-health
caused delay and murmuring in regard to urgent business. His secretary
[Footnote: Sir Philip Warwick was born in Westminster in 1609, and was
employed before the Civil War, in the service of Lord Goring, and,
afterwards, of Bishop Juxon. He acted as Secretary to the King during the
Conference at Newport, in 1648. After the Restoration, he became Secretary
to the Treasury under Lord Southampton, and had all the qualities of an
excellent civil servant, virtually controlling the department under its
ministerial head. His _Memoirs_ are not of first-rate importance, but
contain some good accounts of engagements in the war, and of incidents in
the life of the King. He survived till 1683, and won the fervent
admiration of that other worthy official, Pepys.] virtually discharged the
work of the office--an estimable and honest man, no doubt, but not equal
to the position of Lord Treasurer. The Treasurer's "understanding was too
fine for such gross matters as the office must be conversant about, and if
his want of health did not hinder him, his genius did not carry him that
way." Nothing could be further from the King's thoughts than to disoblige
so faithful a servant; but perhaps he would not be unwilling to go, and
perhaps the Chancellor would do the King the singular service of
suggesting it to him.

The first answer of Clarendon in reply to this not very palatable speech
was to ask whom the King proposed to make Treasurer in Southampton's
place? He would, said the King, never have another Treasurer, but would
exercise the office by Commissioners. Once more the same insuperable
prejudice, which Clarendon had felt against the system involved in the
Appropriation Clause, was stirred in him. He saw precisely the same
motives at work, involving precisely the same dangers. Commissioners might
be all very well in Cromwell's days. He needed no Treasurer, and could
take care, with an army at his back, that Commissioners would not prove
troublesome. But the plan suited ill with monarchical principles. The King
should have his Lord Treasurer, of standing and of honour sufficient to
ensure sound administration and compel respect. Commissioners, as
Clarendon discerned clearly, would be bad servants and dangerous masters.
Clarendon might be fighting a forlorn hope against the growing forces of
officialdom; but his dislike was honest, and his discernment of the future
was correct.

But he had other reasons to urge against the slur which it was proposed to
throw upon his old friend.

"Most humbly and with much earnestness he besought his Majesty seriously
to reflect what an ill savour it would have over the whole kingdom, at
this time of a war with at least two powerful enemies abroad together, in
so great discontent and jealousy at home, and when the Court was in no
great reputation with the people, to remove a person, the most loved and
reverenced for his most exemplary fidelity and wisdom, who had deserved as
much from his blessed father and himself as a subject can do from his
prince, a nobleman of the best quality, the best allied and the best
beloved; to remove at such a time such a person, and with such
circumstances, from his counsels and his trust."

The King was not of a mould to resist plain speaking like this, and when
not supported by the presence of those who made him their tool and
instrument, he seldom managed to make way against the vehemence of
Clarendon's rebukes. It could hardly be pleasant for a monarch to be told
that what he designs is base ingratitude; that his throne is in danger;
the reputation of his Court in evil savour; that both require such support
as they may be able to get from men of reverence and station, and that he
would be mad to alienate any support from such men that may be vouchsafed
to him; yet this was the plain meaning of Clarendon's words. But Charles
hesitated to go back, repulsed, to those who had made him their
mouthpiece. He remained "rather moved and troubled than convinced." But
fortunately Clarendon found an unexpected ally in the Duke of York, who
had joined the King and himself at the interview, with the intention, it
appears, of supporting the King's purpose. To him Clarendon restated his
arguments, and urged him to do the best service to the King his brother
"by dissuading him from a course that would prove so mischievous to him."
For this once, the Duke was converted to Clarendon's view, and "prevailed
with the King to lay aside the thought of it." [Footnote: Charles not
rarely showed a respect for his brother's opinion which was not founded
upon any high estimate of his abilities. Clarendon himself remarks this
when commenting upon the failure of any attempt to arouse jealousy between
the brothers. Charles, he says, "had a just affection for him, and a
confidence in him, without thinking better of his natural parts than he
thought there was just cause for; and yet, which made it the more wondered
at, he did often depart, in matters of the highest moment, from his own
judgment to comply with his brother" (_Life_, iii. 62).] Once more
the Court conspirators were baulked of their purpose. They could press the
King no further; but

"only made so much use of their want of success by presenting to his
Majesty his irresoluteness, which made the Chancellor still impose upon
him, that the King did not think the better of the Chancellor or the
Treasurer for his receding at that time from prosecuting what he had so
positively resolved to have done." He could only promise "to be firmer to
his next determination."

Between the reproaches of the conspirators of the Court and the scoldings
of the stern Chancellor, the King plays no very dignified figure. Even
Charles's easy humour could not but owe a grudge to one who so often rated
him like a schoolboy in the solemn phrases of State ceremony.

The year 1666 opened on a prospect far from cheering either to the country
or to those charged with its administration. There were symptoms enough of
actual and impending ills to make it no hazardous prophecy for the
astrologers to predict that it was to be "a year of dismal changes and
alterations throughout the world." [Footnote: _Life_, iii 39.] The
war dragged on its weary course, with what seemed to be but delusive hopes
of settlement. Financial troubles were becoming urgent, and the mood of
Parliament, without being actually refractory, was stubborn and
suspicious. The Plague was still pressing with grievous heaviness, even
though there were symptoms that it was somewhat alleviated. Throughout the
nation there was murmuring and discontent, at times breaking out into
active resistance to the law; and the Court was in increasingly worse
odour with the people. It aroused at once the anger of those whom its
extravagance seemed to insult; the disgust of those who had some respect
for decency; and the contempt and bitter grief of those who prized the
honour of the Crown, and desired to maintain the loyalty of the nation.

Charles's disappointment of any hope of legitimate offspring seemed to
dissipate any frail purpose he had entertained of ordering his life and
Court with more regard to the elementary dictates of decency and decorum.
The influence of Lady Castlemaine was supreme; and the grossness of the
palace atmosphere was made all the greater because his favourite mistress
added the character of procuress to that of courtesan.

Clarendon would fain have found some excuse for the degradation of the
family to whose service his life had been devoted. Apart from all
political inclinations and all thoughts of personal ambition, it is
absolutely certain that what largely aroused in Clarendon that
enthusiastic loyalty which he felt for Charles I. was the consummate
dignity of a pure life. Dignity as well as purity were alike banished from
the Court of Charles II., with the examples before it of his own more open
debauchery and of his brother's more morose viciousness, which was
rendered all the uglier by his sullen bigotry. With a discerning eye
Clarendon read the prevailing defects of the Stuart race--their proneness
to succumb to flattery and vicious influence, and then obstinately to
sacrifice every good inclination to the acquired vice.

"They were too much inclined to like men at first sight, and did not love
the conversation of men of many more years than themselves, and thought
age not only troublesome, but impertinent. They did not love to deny, and
less to strangers than to their friends; not out of bounty or generosity,
which was a flower that did never grow naturally in the heart of either of
the families, that of Stuart or of Bourbon, but out of an unskilfulness
and defect in the countenance; and when they prevailed with themselves to
make some pause rather than to deny, importunity removed all resolution."
[Footnote: _Life_, iii. 63.]

It is a heavy indictment in the mouth of one who had felt its truth by
bitter experience and to whom its avowal caused the deepest pain.

The scandals of the Court touched Clarendon through his daughter, the
Duchess of York. The Duke was no model of connubial fidelity, and his
lapses from virtue, if not so flagrant as those of his brother, yet gave
food enough for gossiping tongues. But ostensibly his married life was
fairly decorous, and against the Duchess no charges could be made. Her
life, however, did not escape the gibes of those who sought to attack her
father through her, and the trust which the Duke showed in her judgment
roused their malice. They did their best to bring the King to listen to
their sarcasm on a married life which seemed to rebuke his own; and
Clarendon at the same time saw with regret that both his daughter and her
husband partook in large measure of the spirit of reckless expense which
prevailed at Court. Dutiful as she was in other respects, here her
father's admonitions were of no effect. The Duke and she had formed their
ideas of the scale of expenditure necessary in the household of the heir
apparent, from the usages of the French Court. To those who saw in her
only the daughter of one who, a few years ago, had been but a Wiltshire
squire, her assumption of almost royal state was a cause of petty malice,
and suggested the false pride of a family of obscure birth. To Clarendon
it seemed but a necessary insistence upon that respect which the
prevailing tone of the Court rendered necessary. In his eyes the danger
lay, not in their insistence upon the usages of royal etiquette, but in
their extravagance; and he incurred some ill-will from her, as well as
from her husband, by his refusal to give his aid in securing for them a
more ample revenue. The connection with the royal family, which had been
thrust upon Clarendon to his indignation and sorely against his will,
proved a new source of anxiety and dispeace.

[Illustration: ANNE HYDE, DUCHESS OF YORK (From the original by Sir Peter
Lely)]

It was on the first of September "in this dismal year of 1666," that the
Great Fire burst out that in a few days consumed two-thirds of London,
comprising all the repositories of her wealth. It added, to the other
disasters weighing on the country, a stupendous disturbance of her
commerce at its very centre, and the plunging of the nation into one of
those unthinking panics, which, once indulged, so easily become habitual.
The people were in no condition to face such a calamity with the coolness
that comes from native energy or the confidence inspired by trust in their
rulers. It seemed as if a judgment from heaven had fallen upon the nation;
but it was received with all the despair of craven superstition and with
no thought of benefiting by the lessons of tribulation. Angry and
groundless accusations against foreigners and papists only added to the
general excitement, without stirring up any of the courage which makes
brave men face disaster. Public credit was shaken; commercial operations
were stunned; wage-earners were thrown out of employment; the forces of
crime found themselves released even from those imperfect bonds which then
kept them in check. The King and his brother did, indeed, prove their
courage in danger and their readiness of expedient; and they were well
helped in their efforts to cope with the calamity by many of the leading
nobility. But as a whole the visitation proved that the nerves of the
nation were sadly relaxed. Clarendon summarizes the progress of the fire
and the destruction wrought by it; but his most significant comments are
those with which he closes his narrative, telling how hopeless he had
grown, in this, the last stage of his laborious career:--"It was hoped and
expected," he says, "that this prodigious and universal calamity, for the
effects of it covered the whole kingdom, would have made impression, and
produced some reformation in the licence of the Court; for as the pains
the King had taken night and day during the fire and the dangers he had
exposed himself to, even for the saving the citizens' goods, had been very
notorious and in the mouths of all men, with good wishes and prayers for
him; so his Majesty had been heard during that time to speak with great
piety and devotion of the displeasure that God was provoked to. And no
doubt the deep sense of it did raise many good thoughts and purposes in
his royal breast. But he was narrowly watched and looked to that such
melancholic thoughts might not long possess him, the consequence and
effect whereof was like to be more grievous than that of the fire itself;
of which that loose company that was too much cherished, even before it
was extinguished, discoursed of as an argument for mirth and wit, to
describe the wildness of the confusion all people were in; in which the
Scripture itself was used with equal liberty when they could apply it to
their profane purposes. And Mr. May [Footnote: Baptist May (born in 1629)
managed to ingratiate himself with Charles II. in France, and became a
favourite in the unsavoury position of "Court Pimp," as he is styled by
Pepys. He secured for his base services some grants of land about St.
James's, and was one of the lowest of a degraded gang. He sat occasionally
in Parliament to discharge commissions which no man of honour would have
undertaken. He lived a despised life down to 1698.] presumed to assure the
King that this was the greatest blessing that God had ever conferred upon
him, his restoration only excepted; for the walls and gates being now
burned and thrown down of that rebellious city, which was always an enemy
to the Crown, his Majesty would never suffer them to repair and build them
up again to be a bit in his mouth and a bridle upon his neck, but would
keep all open that his troops might enter upon them whenever he thought it
necessary for his service, there being no way to govern that rude
multitude but by force." [Footnote: _Life_, iii. 100.]

Such ribaldry was distasteful to the King, and for the moment he frowned
upon it. But it wrought a dire effect, as it spread beyond the purlieus of
the palace. Liberty of criticism was as easy to the rude multitude as to
the witlings of the Court, and its effects, when it spread to that
multitude, were far more deadly. The King's judgment might condemn, but
his facile love of jesting made him inclined to listen to, the empty and
sordid chatter of frivolity that sounded through his Court. "Meanwhile,"
says Clarendon, "all men of virtue and sobriety, of which there were very
many in the King's family, were grieved and heartbroken with hearing what
they could not choose but hear, and seeing many things which they could
not avoid seeing." It is hard to say which is most worthy of contempt--the
appalling cynicism that prompted such scurrilities, or the amazing folly
which mistook their vulgarity for wit.

But even although Charles, out of a seeming respect for his older and
sounder counsellors, might frown upon such irresponsible outbursts of bad
taste, his scanty respect for the forms of the constitution continued to
be a source of deep regret to Clarendon. In the view of the Chancellor,
the Privy Council was the pivot of the constitution.

"By the constitution of the kingdom," he says, [Footnote: Life, iii. 103]
"and the very laws and customs of the nation, as the Privy Council and
every member of it is of the King's sole choice and election of him to
that trust, so the body of it is the most sacred, and hath the greatest
authority in the government of the State, next the person of the King
himself, to whom all other powers are equally subject; and no King of
England can so well secure his own just prerogative or preserve it from
violation as by a strict defending and supporting the dignity of his Privy
Council."

This is one of the features in Clarendon's scheme of the constitution,
which essentially divide him from the modern view. But it was to be long
before the Privy Councilship became, as in modern usage, little more than
an honorary title; and it may be doubted whether a strict reading of the
constitution is not infringed by the change which this has involved.
Clarendon did not, of course, suppose that the Privy Council could place
itself above Parliament, or that it could pretend to guide the national
policy. Such a thing would have been as impossible in Clarendon's day as
it would be now. But he did conceive that the power of the executive
should receive all its authority from, and be subject to the supreme
guidance of, the most ancient and august body which was nominated solely
by the Crown. The prerogative of the Crown must be exercised through that
body; and this view was confirmed by the fact that after the Revolution
each Privy Councillor was made responsible for the decrees passed with his
assent. This was, indeed, the very contrivance by which the ancient
principle that the King could do no wrong was made compatible with a free
constitution. Clarendon's view, however antiquated, was thus, in truth, a
safeguard for liberty. A great officer of State was entrusted with the
duties and powers of his office. But he was not necessarily a member of
the Privy Council, and his powers were, in Clarendon's view, limited by
the supreme authority of that Council. That its portals should be
jealously guarded; that only men of the first weight should be admitted to
it; that its proceedings should be carefully regulated and should rest
upon sound legal principles--all these things made for government by the
personal agency of carefully chosen Ministers of the Crown, which it was
Clarendon's aim to preserve, instead of bureaucratic rule by a host of
minor officials. They also served as a powerful guarantee for
constitutional liberty and for immediate responsibility attaching to a
well-recognized body for any infringement of it. It is hard to fix
responsibility amongst the various grades of an official hierarchy. It is
easy to fix it upon a small group of leading men who have the
administration in their hands, who are bound to base their procedure on
well-understood rules, and who cannot transgress these rules in ignorance
or under the veil of obscurity.

Under the new _régime_ the Chancellor found the Privy Council filled
with Court favourites or ambitious intriguers of the type of Sir William
Coventry, who scorned precedent and was never so happy as when inveighing
against the trammels of the law. Clarendon was forced to submit to daily
encroachments upon regularity of procedure, which found encouragement from
the King. His personal dignity was injured, and his temper was daily
chafed, by the insults of those who carried their insubordination and
their flippancy to the Council Chamber, where he could ill brook their
presence; and they did so under cover of the secret sympathy of the King.
Day by day he found his own influence more surely undermined; and it was
none the less irksome because he saw the work of his life undone amidst
the gibes of a heartless cynicism.

It involves, however, no reflection upon the dignity or the capacity of
Clarendon if we are compelled to admit that the schoolboy baiting to which
he was exposed found no little encouragement from his own bluntness and
his stubborn resolution to stoop to none of the arts of courtiership.
There was a limit even to the patience with which Charles could listen to
the oft-repeated catalogue of his own moral defects; and perhaps
Clarendon's lessons might have been none the less effective had they been
conveyed with something more of tact. The strange thing is that he himself
saw, and faithfully recounts, the traps which were laid for him. But he
seems to have thought that these could best be dealt with by roughly
trampling on such devices and tearing his way headlong through such
snares. The struggle was sometimes not a little comic in aspect, in spite
of the background of tragedy. Upon some occasions the courtiers, with an
hypocrisy which Clarendon did not fail to suspect, would lament to him the
scandals of their master's life and the injury that these wrought to his
reputation and authority. When he urged that they should "advertise the
King what they thought and heard all others say," they professed that they
dared not speak to the King "in such dialect." Clarendon gave them credit
for some honesty in their refusal to condemn what they themselves
encouraged; and perhaps too readily assumed himself the task which they
refused. On one occasion, while he and Arlington--one would have thought
no very sympathetic pair for mutual confidences--were discussing the
license of the Court and the consequent injury to the Crown, their
conversation was interrupted by the King. Their trouble did not escape his
notice, and he asked the subject of their talk. The Chancellor candidly
declared--prefacing the declaration by a confession that he was not sorry
for the chance of making it--that

"they were speaking of his Majesty, and, as they did frequently, were
bewailing the unhappy life he lived, both with respect to himself, who, by
the excess of pleasures which he indulged to himself, was indeed without
the true delight and relish of any; and in respect to his Government,
which he totally neglected, and of which the kingdom was so sensible that
it could not be long before he felt the ill effects of it."

So he proceeded, pressing home the moral with all energy of denunciation,
and concluded by

"beseeching him to believe, that which he had often said to him, that no
prince could be more miserable, nor could have more reason to fear his own
ruin, than he who hath no servants who dare contradict him in his opinions
and advise him against his inclinations, how natural soever." The picture
was not a flattering one, and the prognostications were not soothing. To
play the part of such a Mentor is doubtless at times a duty, but it can
scarcely confirm the influence of him by whom it is discharged. The King
heard it "with his usual temper (for he was a patient hearer) and spake
sensibly, as if he thought that much that had been said was with too much
reason." Perhaps Clarendon might have chosen a better audience than a
proclaimed enemy like Arlington. The secretary had no mind for such
jeremiads, and was dexterous enough to turn the subject by falling into
"raillery, which was his best faculty, with which he diverted the King
from any further serious reflections." The King and he soon passed to
merriment at Clarendon's expense, and made the old jests against the
gravity of age, which made no allowance for the infirmities of youth.
Clarendon tells the close of the conversation with an almost naïve
candour. Their raillery, he confesses,

"increased the passion he was in, and provoked him to say that it was
observed abroad, that it was a faculty very much improved of late in the
Court, to laugh at those arguments they could not answer, and which could
always be requited with the same mirth amongst those who were enemies to
it, and therefore it was a pity that it should be so much embraced by
those who pretended to be friends;" and ended with "some other, too plain,
expressions, which, it may be, were not warily enough used."

Candour is no doubt a virtue, and Clarendon deserves honour for his bold
words. But to tell the King that he was at once a sluggard and a
debauchee; that he had lost the respect, and would probably soon forfeit
the obedience of his subjects; and to scold his jocular raillery by
painting him as courting the society and imitating the manners of
buffoons, was scarcely a tactful way of insinuating a lesson of caution
and establishing the confidence which makes a servant congenial to his
master. We must honour Clarendon for his manliness; but perhaps a little
less of the pedagogue might not have diminished his influence or impaired
the dignity of his character.

Charles knew how to hide any irritation under a smiling demeanour. But the
friction was there and it soon took plainer shape. Careless as he was, the
King had his share of Stuart punctiliousness, and the habits of the French
Court had taught him that royal favour ought to command respect, even for
those whose conduct had forfeited it according to the usual ethics of
social decorum. That respect his pride taught him to insist upon; and he
resented the boldness of the lampoons upon his Court which were now
circulated broadcast, not because they reflected on his morals, but
because they were a breach of good manners. One whose chosen associates
were men of habitual profanity and unabashed licentiousness; one who
believed religion to be nothing but disguised hypocrisy, and the chastity
of women nothing but a delusion artfully contrived--could not long condone
plain speaking for its manliness and sincerity, and could not conceive
that the profligacy of the royal courtesan deprived her of the observances
of formal courtliness. It was this last point which brought upon Clarendon
the King's first direct remonstrances. He told the Chancellor that "he was
more severe against common infirmities than he should be, and that his
wife was not courteous in returning visits and civilities to those who
paid her respect." Such neglect the King chose to interpret as an insult
to himself. It was clear to whom and to what it referred; Clarendon had
consistently declined to allow his wife to have any intercourse with Lady
Castlemaine. To the King's remonstrance

"he answered very roundly, that he might seem not to understand his
meaning, and so make no reply to the discourse he had made; but that he
understood it all and the meaning of every word of it; and therefore that
it would not become him to suffer his Majesty to depart with an opinion
that what he had said would produce any alteration in his behaviour
towards him, or reformation of his manners towards any other person. He
did beseech his Majesty," the Chancellor went on, "not to believe that he
hath a prerogative to declare vice virtue, or to qualify any person who
lives in a sin and avows it, against which God Himself hath pronounced
damnation, for the company and conversation of innocent and worthy
persons. Whatever low obedience, which was in truth gross flattery, some
people might pay to what they believed would be grateful to his Majesty,
they had in their hearts a perfect detestation of the persons they made
address to; for his part, he was resolved that his wife should not be one
of these courtiers."

The King could only reply "that he was wrong, and had an understanding
different from all men who had experience in the world."

Clarendon's are brave words, and we may well doubt whether the like were
ever addressed by a Minister of the Crown to the occupant of a throne
which still retained so much of the kingly prerogative as did that of
Charles. But do they leave us to seek for new grounds for Clarendon's
approaching fall? Do they not, indeed, prove that, but for his thorough
grasp of the essentials of sound administration, his predominant
forcefulness, and the urgent need of his wise and experienced guidance,
the King would have yielded to his own growing irritation, and that
Clarendon's fall would have come, and the eager longings of his enemies
have been gratified, far earlier than was the case?

Before we enter upon the last stage of Clarendon's ministry, so fateful
for the future history of England, it may be well to turn to another
aspect of his life, which is not without its use in helping us to estimate
his character. We have already seen how the high office which he held, and
for which his unswerving loyalty, his long service, and his ample
experience had so fully designated him, had been accompanied by exalted
rank in the nobility of England, which required him, according to the
fashion of the time, to maintain great state, and involved heavy
expenditure. He had inherited a fair estate; had married the daughter of
an ancient family, with no small dowry; and, in his early days, his
fortune had been increased, not only by further inheritances, but by the
lucrative practice of his profession. When he first entered Parliament, he
had before him the prospect of a prosperous career; and when he was
induced to enter the service of Charles I. it was possible for him to do
so without emolument and in full security that his own means would be
ample for his requirements. During the troubled years that followed these
means rapidly decreased. He could draw no revenue from his estates, and
during the long years of his banishment from the country he had been
reduced to the direst straits of poverty, and had been forced to subsist
on the scanty grants that could be made to him, and to others, from the
funds supplied to the King by those loyal supporters who could spare
something from their own impaired revenues. After the Restoration,
Clarendon found himself in possession of an office of which the
emoluments, without any of those malpractices or extortions which were
then too common, and which his enemies did not scruple to charge against
him, [Footnote: Hints and gossip as to such bribes and commissions were
inevitable in an age when they were only too common, and in the mouths of
men whose consciences were blunted by long practice. Such gossip readily
spread, as it is, in all places and in all ages, too apt to do. We may
safely discard the slanderous garrulity of Pepys, and just as safely the
ridiculous libel of Anthony a Wood, who tells us how one David Jenkyns, a
friend of Wood's and a good Royalist, would certainly have been made a
judge at the Restoration, if he "had paid money to the Lord Chancellor."
Anthony a Wood had no kindly feeling to a family from whom he received
such castigation as he did from the Hydes. Lies of that sort always
propagate themselves, like noisome weeds; it is the part of the wise to
neglect them until they are established by proof.] were still large. There
is not a tittle of evidence to disprove Clarendon's assertion, that he
confined himself to those revenues of his office which were strictly
legal; and to suppose otherwise would be to suppose him false to all those
ideals which were the foundation of his character, and to which his pride,
if nothing else, compelled him. Naturally he recovered the full use of his
private property, and some, at least, of the arrears due to him would
undoubtedly be paid. Very soon after the King's return a grant--in no
degree above his merits--of £20,000 was made to him by the King out of the
present sent by the Parliament. Clarendon found himself in the position of
a fairly wealthy man, and it was not unnatural that he should desire to
maintain that position which was commensurate with his rank. He knew
himself to be the founder of a family which must take its place in the
ranks of the great nobility of England, and must hold a conspicuous place
in her annals. To him, as to many men for whom the pettiness of personal
position weighs for little, the maintenance of that family in worthy
dignity became a legitimate object of ambition. [Footnote: Clarendon did,
indeed, as he was fully justified in doing, procure for some of his
relations posts for which there is no reason to judge them unsuitable. One
cousin, Alexander Hyde, became Bishop of Salisbury. Another, Robert Hyde,
became Chief Justice of the Common Pleas in 1661. The brother of these
two, Henry Hyde, had been executed for his loyalty in 1650, and thereby
had established no mean claim to loyal gratitude. Clarendon, in this, did
no more than any one in his circumstances was not only entitled, but bound
to do.] To his historic sense a place amongst the nobility of his country
was attractive, and its stateliness was something which his imagination
clothed with more than merely superficial allurement. It was from no
selfish feeling and no vanity of personal display, that he conceived the
idea of leaving to those who were to come after him an inheritance
compatible with that position. It would be unjust to blame Clarendon
because he gave the scanty leisure, which his absorbing business permitted
him, to attaining that object. For years after the Restoration he had no
house of his own in London, and occupied one or other of the houses either
lent or hired to him by members of the great nobility who now looked upon
him as their equal. After his private affairs were on a more secure basis,
he began to build for himself. He chose a site near the top of St. James's
Street, just where Piccadilly began to melt into the fields beyond, and
there he constructed a mansion which he fondly hoped would carry on his
name for many a generation. It was conceived on ample lines and with all
that pride of architecture which his own cultured taste and the stately
ceremonial of the day made congenial to him. As in temperament and style,
so in his conception of the constitution, in his taste, and in the
ordering of his life, Clarendon was essentially an aristocrat; and it was
in harmony with that idea that the mansion which faced St. James's Palace,
[Footnote: It was flanked by Lord Berkeley's house to the west, and by
Burlington House to the east.] and was to bear the name of Clarendon
House, was now rising in all the bravery of ornament and amplitude of
design which were in keeping with its owner's taste; and that it should
earn the praise of Evelyn as likely to be the stateliest house in London.
[Footnote: "To my Lord Chancellor at Clarendon House," says Pepys, in his
_Diary_ for May 9, 1667. "Mightily pleased with the nobleness of this
house, and the brave furniture and pictures, which indeed is very noble."
He had been impressed with it as strongly in its early stages, and writes
in January, 1666: "It is the finest pile I ever did see in my life, and
will be a glorious house." The building was begun early in 1665. Evelyn is
not so complimentary. He thought it "a goodly pile to see, but had many
defects as to the architecture, yet placed most gracefully" (_Diary_,
Nov. 28, 1666). A longer passage from Evelyn's _Diary_, of a later
date, is quoted in the note on p. 324.

Pepys was greatly impressed with the view, to which he more than once
returned, from the roof of the house. "It is the noblest prospect that
ever I saw in my life; Greenwich being nothing to it" (Feb. 1665/6).] But
envious tongues and malicious gossip soon taught its builder that his
pride was vain, and that he could not indulge his fancy with the ease of
one who held obscurer rank. The crowd is fickle, and Clarendon took little
care to secure its lenient judgment. Already his mansion was nicknamed
Dunkirk House, and the quidnuncs told how it was built out of the bribes
which had made him contrive the sale of that port to France. To decorate
his mansion it was his ambition to collect a gallery of portraits, which
should represent all those who had foremost places in the eventful history
of his time. Such a design involved an expenditure very small compared
with the notions of the present day. Clarendon procured all the notable
portraits which were available. It is quite possible--and Evelyn admits
it--that when the statesman's foible became known; pictures were sold to
him at easy prices, or even presented as a compliment to the power and
position of the collector. It is absurd to suppose that Clarendon either
would or could have brought any pressure to bear upon the owners. But a
falling statesman is an easy aim for slander, and it was whispered that
the Clarendon collection was enriched by oppressive means. [Footnote: The
chief authority for this accusation against Clarendon is an ill-natured
insinuation by Lord Dartmouth, in his notes on _Burnet's History of His
Own Times_,--notes which were in MS. only, and which were not intended
for publication. It carries its own refutation, and Dartmouth could not
possibly have had any knowledge of the circumstances. Clarendon no doubt
received certain complimentary gifts. But we know that many private
collections were broken up and sold by impoverished Cavaliers, and such
pictures must at that time have been procurable at easy prices. Many of
the pictures were interesting as portraits, rather than as works of art,
although there were good specimens of Vandyke, Jansen, Kneller, and Lely
amongst the collection; and Clarendon was probably able to pursue his
hobby of collecting portraits of the outstanding men in English history at
no great cost.

In a letter to Pepys of August 12, 1689, Evelyn gives a list of pictures
in the collection of which he himself had advised the purchase, and some
of which, he admits, had been presented by those who "strove to make their
court" to the Chancellor, by such timely gifts, when his design was known.
They comprised portraits of all the leading men in the reigns of
Elizabeth, James I., and Charles I., and others were added from more
remote history, and from his own later contemporaries. It is interesting
to note that there were portraits of Chaucer, Shakespeare, Beaumont, and
Fletcher--"which was," adds Evelyn, "most agreeable to his Lordship's
general humour."

When Clarendon House was destroyed, the collection went to his country
house, at Cornbury, in Oxfordshire. On the death of Lord Rochester, in
1753, they were divided between his daughters, Jane, Countess of Essex and
Catherine (the famous "Kitty" of Pope and Gay), Duchess of Queensberry.
The first moiety is that now at the Grove, Watford; the second is that
which descended to the Douglas family, and is now at Bothwell Castle.] If
Clarendon's very natural ambition to bequeath a dignified home to his
family and to make it a treasure-house of portraits which represented a
great page in English history, was any weakness, it was one for which he
may well be pardoned, and for which he paid heavily. He lived to regret
the error into which a very human pride had led him. We must leave it to
sterner moralists to deal out censure upon a weakness which he shared with
other men of genius, who have found a solace in raising a stately monument
which they may bequeath to posterity, and which may preserve another
memory of them than that of their toils and their struggles and their own
personal ambitions. But in the case of Clarendon this weakness--of which
he himself clearly saw the error--had this additional disadvantage, that
it spread the belief that he had acquired wealth proportionate to such
architectural expenditure. Like many another man, Clarendon overbuilt
himself; and his miscalculation made his contemporaries suppose him the
possessor of a superfluity of ill-gotten wealth.




CHAPTER XXIV

INCREASING BITTERNESS OF HIS FOES


In the midst of thickening troubles at home and abroad, in Court, in the
city, and in the provinces, Parliament met on the 2lst September, 1666.
The new session was destined to bring sharply to an issue more than one of
the questions in regard to which long-drawn friction had vexed the soul of
Clarendon, and as it proceeded it was to reveal more clearly the designs
of those who had striven so persistently to fret irritations and sow new
seeds of dissension between him and the King. Their success, ignoble as it
was, and little profitable either to the Crown, the kingdom, or
themselves, was soon to be achieved.

Parliament met under the oppression of gloom caused by the Fire. Whitehall
and Westminster were safe, but scarcely a mile distant the smoke which
rose from the desolated city had hardly died away. "They saw," said the
King in his opening address, "the dismal ruins the Fire had made; and
nothing but a miracle of God's mercy could have preserved what was left
from the same destruction." He was forced once more to apply for their
assistance to meet the vast expense of the war, to which no end could be
foreseen. The disasters of the kingdom had doubled the insolence of their
enemies; and nothing could save the country but a vigorous effort to show
the world that, in spite of these disasters, it was still equal to its own
defence. It was a crisis which sorely needed all the energy of firm and
united statesmanship; and very scantily was that need supplied. The
interruption of credit; the bankruptcy of many of the leading citizens;
the general paralysis that had fallen upon commerce--all these made it
hard to say how money could be raised, and Clarendon notes, with none of
the satisfaction that the truth of his prophecy might have brought, that
the Appropriation Proviso had resulted in the check, rather than in the
boasted increase, of the supply of funds. There was, indeed, "a faint vote
procured," that they would give a supply proportionate to the wants of the
Crown; but no sum was fixed, and after this first vague resolution the
matter hung in suspense, and even a Parliament that was so strongly
loyalist found it needful to delay and insist upon conditions before any
new supply was voted. Their loyalty had now a strong vein of stubbornness.
The country gentlemen could no longer blind themselves to the scandals of
the Court, and the intractable mood bred by these scandals could be
skilfully turned to their own purposes by Clarendon's enemies. What had at
first been only dilatoriness soon developed into sharp criticism and angry
remonstrance, for which Clarendon knew that there was only too good
ground. It was an ill time to press for new supplies when the national
resources were drained to the dregs. If the King needed more after the
lavish grants of recent years, there must have been mischief afoot which
should be probed to the bottom. All those through whose hands the money
had passed must give a strict account of it.

A Bill was introduced for the appointment of Audit Commissioners, who were
to examine all accounts and report to Parliament any defaulters, whose
punishment Parliament was to determine. So strongly was the country party
bent upon this financial inquest that it was difficult to withstand their
zeal in the hunt for malpractices. The naval administration was chiefly in
their view, and their threats caused much searching of heart amongst those
whose consciences told them that their methods could hardly meet the
perilous light of day. A certain amount of corruption was an ordinary
incident of all administrative dealings. Pepys had no wish to be
dishonest, and was, indeed, a fairly incorrupt official, according to the
ideas of the day. Many times he had withstood flagrant waste, and he was
vigilant in promoting sound economies. But a barefaced system of secret
commissions, which he honestly records in the faithful pages of his
_Diary_, was universally practised, and the only admitted scruple was
that such commissions should not be allowed to operate so as to permit a
flagrantly dishonest contract. Subject to this, he evidently thought
himself neglectful of his rightful interests if he did not make the most
out of every transaction, and he piously invokes the blessing of Heaven
upon the unsavoury business, as, with unctuous complacency, he counts up
his gains. But, however such things may be condoned by the prevailing
practice they have an ugly appearance when exposed to the public gaze, and
Pepys was sorely alarmed both for himself and his principals at the
prospect of a strict investigation. Others besides Pepys were involved.
Ashley's administration of the prize-money had been expressly set free
from any auditing authority except that of the King; and under the
protection of this proviso he had expended the proceeds not only with the
sanction, but at the instigation of Charles, on objects which could not be
made public without exposing the Crown to the contempt of the nation, and
making the resistance of the country party more obstinate and more
outspoken. Charles took alarm, and consulted the secret committee of the
Privy Council on the subject. He was determined, he said, to defend his
Ministers against an inquiry conducted on methods for which there was no
precedent, and under which no man would be safe. He trusted that the Bill
would receive no support in the Commons; that if it passed the Commons it
would be rejected by the Lords; but in any case, he was resolved never to
give it his assent. The committee appeared to assent to these bold words,
and to see in the proposal a dangerous menace to the prerogative of the
Crown; and Clarendon, obeying his natural dislike of such encroachments,
confirmed the view of the King, hoped that he would abide by his
resolution, and promised his own vigorous opposition to any such Bill in
the Lords.

It is hard to find any adequate ground, either in policy or in justice,
for Clarendon's resistance to this proposal. He had himself nothing to
fear from it. He had no part in the details of naval administration, and
those who were chiefly threatened had no claim to his protection. He had
been strongly opposed to Ashley's appointment to administer the prize-
money, and he could not but know that the investigation would ruin
Ashley's reputation. Had he boldly placed himself at the head of the
country party and made himself the foremost champion of financial purity,
he might have established a firm hold upon the affections of all that was
best in the nation, and he might have trusted to their loyalty and his own
to prevent any serious blow to the prerogative of the Crown and the
respect due to the King. As a fact, he did assent, subsequently, to the
nomination by the Crown of an audit commission, and it does not seem as if
a simple alteration of procedure would have seriously affected the
substance of the matter. Of his failure to act thus, his increasing age,
his infirmities of health, the anxieties by which he was oppressed, and
the lack of powerful and confidential allies may have largely been the
cause. But we must remember also the ruling principles in Clarendon's
conception of the constitution, and his own deep-seated prejudices. He was
unwilling to stoop to injure an enemy by a weapon which might diminish the
prerogative of the Crown. He never sought the position of leader of a
party, which would thus have been forced upon him, and he felt that
position to be incompatible with his own loyalty as servant of the Crown.
He disliked the idea of Parliamentary tactics; and all his past experience
identified such tactics, in his mind, with the beginnings of rebellion. It
was not given to him to see so far into the future as to conceive that an
independent Minister might be the strongest buttress of the Crown.

But the tactics from which he recoiled were put into practice, with less
than his honesty, but with much more skill in stratagem, by those who
sought to accomplish his fall. The very courtiers whose influence was
accountable for the scandals which stirred the indignation of the country
party, made themselves the trusted friends of the parliamentary
opposition, and carefully nursed it for their own purposes. The
irresponsible and flighty genius of Buckingham made him, for the moment,
the chosen patron of those who were murmuring against the abuses of the
Court, stimulated him to organize and conciliate the Parliamentary faction
that grumbled against the waste of the national resources, and induced him
to cast aside for the time the habits of a profligate voluptuary, and
throw himself with ardour into the labours of Parliamentary debate.
Rivalry in debauchery had made him, for a season, the object of the King's
personal dislike, and had involved him in a bitter contest with Lady
Castlemaine; and this tempted him to adopt the uncongenial part of a
moralist, who found it convenient to cultivate the friendship of the
strictest sectaries, and to pose as the saviour of the kingdom. It was not
the first, nor the only, antic by which he made himself, as Zimri, the
easy butt of Dryden's satire. He became the prime favourite of the people,
and his power with the mob seemed to make him the rival of the King. It
added to the zest with which he pursued this new freak, that it helped him
to satisfy private and personal piques. In particular the Duke of Ormonde
had become the object of his almost insane jealousy. Ormonde's lofty
character, his consistent loyalty, his influence in the counsels of the
King, above all, his vast power as a great territorial magnate, had
wounded the vanity of Buckingham; and he was able to evoke against
Ormonde, as an Irish peer, the jealousy of those English nobles who
thought themselves unduly eclipsed by the great possessions, and high
official rank, of a peer of a lower order--that of the Irish nobility.

It was largely in obedience to this personal jealousy, that Buckingham had
made himself the prominent promoter of a Bill of singular injustice to the
sister kingdom. It was conceived that the importation of Irish cattle was
a serious injury to the English agricultural interest, and was enriching
the Irish at the expense of the English proprietors; and it was therefore
proposed to forbid any such importation. That it involved practical ruin
to Ireland, and promised to lay the seeds of deep-rooted hatred, mattered
nothing to those who had their own selfish objects to pursue, or who had
private grudges to satisfy. It was only natural that the Bill found ready
assent amongst some honest men, who were earnestly desirous to relieve the
agricultural interest, suffering heavily under the pressure of taxation,
and who had something else than private venom to indulge. The bitter
complaints of Ireland could not be expected to weigh for much. It remained
to be seen whether the short-sighted selfishness, which was sedulously
fostered in order to gratify personal spleen, would be allowed to inflict
upon a nation, united under the same Crown, this scandalous injustice. At
first it was proposed that the embargo should extend to Scotland also; but
at a later stage this was dropped.

[Illustration: JAMES BUTLER, DUKE OF ORMONDE. (_From the original by Sir
Godfrey Kneller._)]

The King was not deceived as to the injustice of the Bill, and in its
earliest stages he professed that his conscience would never allow him to
give it his assent. He urged the Council "to give such a stop to this Bill
that it might never be presented to him; for if it were, he must
positively reject it." It was not the first, nor the last, pronouncement
of the King that was to turn out an empty threat.

The Council did not unanimously accept the opinion of the King. Those whom
he consulted took diverse views of the Bill, and some even who doubted its
policy were not prepared to face the opposition of the English
agricultural interest. Amongst the members of both Houses of the English
Parliament there was a deeply-seated jealousy of Ireland, inherited from
the days of her resistance to English power, and sharpened by fervent
opposition to her Roman Catholic predilections. The promoters of the Bill
soon found themselves backed up by a solid phalanx of English prejudice,
which held the Commons staunch to their support of its provisions.
Buckingham and Ashley learned that their championship added to their hold
upon the nation, and gave them a new chance of inflicting a defeat at once
upon the King, and upon his older Minister. Clarendon fully recognized the
iniquity of the Bill, and welcomed the stalwart resistance which the King
avowed that he would give to it. [Footnote: It is odd to remark how the
incurable prejudice of Whig historians blinds them to the real bearing of
the Bill, and forces them, in their desire to avoid any agreement with
Clarendon, to find some excuse for it. "It is by no means clear," writes
Mr. Christie, the biographer of Ashley, "that special circumstances did
not counsel an exception to the general rules of political economy." So
easily are fundamental principles made to bend to the exigencies of
personal advocacy!] But the result was to prove to him once more how
little reliance could be placed on any apparently settled conviction of
the King.

The House of Commons had now become too stubborn to yield to any arguments
of justice; and that the King and his Ministers opposed the Bill only
added to the obstinacy with which it was pressed. There was now a
deliberate opposition to the Crown, and of the two Bills--that about Irish
cattle, and that for a commission of audit--the first was "driven on with
more fury, and the other more passionately spoken of." Any support which
the party of the Court could reckon on, rapidly diminished; and even its
adherents applied to the King for permission to record their votes in
favour of the Bill. [Footnote: _Life_, iii. 141.] Again Sir William
Coventry, who, to Clarendon's mind, was the evil genius in every plot,
appeared upon the scene. He persuaded the King of the strength of the
supporters of the Bill, and the small prospect of any supply until the
House was satisfied that it would pass. Perhaps, he added, if the friends
of the Court withdrew their opposition to the Irish Bill, they might thus
be able to elude the threatening provisions of the Bill for the audit of
accounts. [Footnote: _Ibid._, p. 142.]

Under such inducements, Charles's conscientious opposition to the Bill
soon disappeared. His henchmen in the House received new orders, and
amidst the plaudits of Buckingham's sycophants, this iniquitous Bill
passed through the House of Commons. The triumph only made the Commons
insist with the more vigour upon the Bill for the audit of accounts. Again
the King yielded to pressure, to the alluring prophecies of abundant
supplies as the reward of surrender, and to the dire threats of exposure
of Court scandals if the will of the House were thwarted. The result was a
new surrender, and the Accounts Bill followed the other to the House of
Lords.

The scene of the struggle was now changed, but it was evident that the
persistence of opposition was in no way checked, and that a fierce
struggle between Parliamentary power and the royal prerogative was
threatened in the immediate future. To Clarendon, the opposition in the
House of Commons centred in these two Bills. Taken together, they roused
his unrelenting hostility, the one because it was founded upon no
constitutional precedent, and was dangerous to the royal prerogative, the
other because it was conceived in a spirit of reckless animosity, and was
flagrantly unjust to Ireland. Up to a certain point, the King had
cordially agreed with that view; but once more that fickle support went
for nothing; a few threats and allurements disposed of Charles's
conscience as well as of his judgment. For him precedent did not count;
the royal prerogative meant only what secured for himself an easy life,
and the prospect of supply; and as for injustice to Ireland, the burden of
conscientious scruples was easily transferred to other shoulders. A strong
will and a scrupulous conscience were inconvenient equipments for a
Minister of Charles II.

But it was still Clarendon's duty to do his best to save the King from
treacherous plotters, as well as from the consequences of his own fickle
waywardness. There was one way which occurred to Clarendon, and which he
seems to have urged upon the King without success. The Parliament had now
sat for six years, and perhaps contact with the constituencies might prove
a solvent of their irksome obstinacy, and also of those dangerous
combinations which were threatening to foil all schemes of sound policy.
Might it not be that the sound loyalty of the nation would send to
Westminster a Parliament, not servile or subservient, but less truculent
and intractable, than the present? Whatever the soundness of his opinion--
and it may perhaps be doubted if a new election would have been a safe
expedient for the King--it obtained scanty support. The little clique of
intriguing courtiers thought that it portended danger to their own
influence. Some who had proved ineffective asserters of the views of the
country party were alarmed for their seats; the King was easily persuaded
that many of his own most obedient placemen might disappear. Buckingham
and his friends managed even to

alarm the bishops, by predicting a majority for the enemies of the Church.
Clarendon never found that the ecclesiastical mind was one upon which, as
a statesman, he could place any reliance. They judged now as far from the
mark as usual, and yielded to the persuasions of his foes. Clarendon was
fain to be content with the existing House of Commons; and the fight was
now to be how far the Lords would bow to the imperious demands of that
House, and allow themselves to be managed by the little band of
malcontents, whose main object was to make the present administration
impossible.

In the House of Lords the leading part in pushing forward the Irish Cattle
Bill was taken by the Duke of Buckingham. His new-found ardour for
political intrigue had changed for the moment his habits of life as a
voluptuary. Under the impulse of his present irritation, his usual haunts
were abandoned, and he spent laborious days in the House, the first to be
present, and the last to disappear. [Footnote: The usual hour for the
meeting of Parliament was early, and Clarendon complains of the laxity
which, of recent years, had made the hour as late as ten o'clock A.M. The
House of Lords had of late shown so little zeal for work that they
frequently adjourned after a few minutes. But now, in the excitement of
the discussion on the Irish Bill, they again sat early, and did not
adjourn till four o'clock, or even "till the candles were brought in."] He
had the eager support of Ashley, inspired like him, by jealousy of
Clarendon and Ormonde, and bringing to the unholy partnership a lack of
principle equal to that of Buckingham, and far greater powers of
concentration, and of persistent strategy. With two such protagonists, the
debates in the House of Lords lost their usual repose and dignity, and
became scenes of turmoil and almost of personal violence. [Footnote:
Clarendon tells us an amusing story of a fracas which occurred between
Buckingham and Lord Dorchester, during a conference between the Houses.
The two peers, who were avowed enemies, chanced to sit together, and each
endeavoured, it would seem, to claim more space than was convenient to the
other. From hustling they came to blows, and Lord Dorchester had the
misfortune to lose his wig in the shuffle. But "the Marquis had much of
the Duke's hair in his hands to recompense for the pulling off his
periwig, which he could not reach high enough to do to the other"
(_Life_, iii. 154). The matter was settled without bloodshed, and
both peers were sent to cool their tempers by a short detention in the
Tower. We are apt, on doubtful grounds, to think that the debaucheries of
Charles's Court were redeemed by elegance of manners. As a fact, the
morals which Dr. Johnson ascribes to Lord Chesterfield's Letters were
often joined, in that Court, to manners which would have shocked the
dancing master of his apothegm.] Buckingham on one occasion provoked a
scene by insolently stating "that whoever was against that Bill had either
an Irish interest or an Irish understanding." The remark, as well as
Buckingham's habitual arrogance, aroused the wrath of Lord Ossory,
Ormonde's eldest son, and a challenge was the consequence. Buckingham, who
did not, to the other attributes of finished courtier, add that of
personal courage, contrived to miss the rendezvous, and, with a lack of
spirit which men of less bravado could hardly have equalled, and which
might have made him blush before his own swashbucklers, he proceeded to
lay before the House a narrative of the case. Both parties, it was held,
had been to blame, and both were, as usual, to pass a short period of
penance in the Tower. But Buckingham's enemies contrived, under the rules
of the House, to inflict an insult upon him, which might have stirred the
blood of a Quaker, not to speak of that which flowed in the veins of this
model gentleman. It was unjust, they urged, that any punishment should
fall upon the Duke. He had done his best to prevent the encounter, and had
prudently mistaken the rendezvous. His friends, not unnaturally, thought
"that it would be more for his honour to undergo the censure of the House
than the penalty of such a vindication."

But apart from these comic accompaniments, the debate upon the Bill in the
Lords raised grave constitutional questions. Clarendon opposed the Bill as
radically unjust, and economically wrong. But he found in it also much
that encroached upon the prerogative. Cases might easily occur where a
remission of the Act was imperatively required in the public interest, and
in special exigencies, and the usual course was to give such dispensing
power to the Crown, just as it is now given under many statutes, by the
machinery of an Order in Council. But the prejudices of the promoters of
the Bill were too virulent to be satisfied with anything less than the
strict and universal application of the embargo; nor did they scruple to
suggest that new restraints were required upon the power of the Crown. All
that Clarendon and his friends in the House of Lords could do, was to
insist that some of the clauses most offensive to the prerogative, and
most opposed to precedent, should be expunged from the Bill before it was
returned to the House of Commons.

The struggle then entered upon a new phase, involving another
constitutional principle. The Commons were prepared to agree to the
omission of Scotland from the Bill;

but in regard to all else, they refused to accept the amendments of the
Lords. The two Houses were in sharp conflict, and for a time it appeared
as if the disagreement could result only in the loss of the Bill. Its
friends had no wish to see this catastrophe, and a conference between the
Houses was therefore arranged. The result was not such as to encourage
those who wished for the settlement of a vexed question, or who hoped that
prudent counsels would be brought to bear on a constitutional difficulty.
To the irritation which the country party had conceived against the Court,
and to the obstinate determination that the royal prerogative should yield
to the will of Parliament, there was now added a bitter fight between the
two Houses; and here again Clarendon's long-cherished opinions forced him
to take the unpopular side. Once more the habits of a lifetime refused to
disappear before an unwarranted, and, as he thought, dangerous innovation.
We may doubt whether he duly estimated the forces to which he was opposing
himself, or rightly gauged the direction in which men's minds were moving.
We may say, with full confidence, that he chose his part with singular
indifference to what was politically or personally expedient. Neither now
nor at any other time did Clarendon yield to anything but his own
conscientious convictions. Nature had not so framed him as to give him the
faculty of making these convictions any more palatable by his methods of
enforcing them. He recognized this fully himself.

"In all the debate upon this Bill, and upon the other of accounts, the
Chancellor had the misfortune to lose much credit in the House of Commons,
not only by a very strong and cordial opposition to what they desired, but
by taking all occasions which were offered by the frequent arguments which
were urged of the opinion and authority of the House of Commons, and that
it was fit and necessary to concur with them, to mention them with less
reverence than they expected. It is very true he had always used in such
provocations to desire the Lords to be more solicitous in preserving their
own unquestionable rights, and most important privileges, and less tender
in restraining the excess and new encroachments of the House of Commons."
[Footnote: _Life_, iii. 163.]

He listened with ill-concealed irritation to assertions of supreme power
on the part of the Commons, which aroused echoes of the old days of the
Long Parliament. His cherished hope was not for an absolute monarchy, but
for such maintenance of the royal prerogative as might assure the delicate
balance of the constitution; and he saw that the degradation of the Lords
to a mere chamber for registering the determination of the House of
Commons was a first step in throwing that delicate balance out of gear.
"His opinion was that the late rebellion could never be extirpated and
pulled up by the roots, till the King's regal and inherent power and
prerogative should be fully awarded and vindicated;" and that prerogative
to his mind was associated with the maintenance of adequate authority in
the House of Lords. It was not given to him to recognize how deeply that
rebellion had struck its roots, and how sure it was that from these roots
would grow a strong plant of Parliamentary power, and of predominance of
the Representative House, which it was now too late to extirpate. He saw
that the irregularities of administration, and the proneness of
irresponsible men "to meddle and interpose in matters out of their own
sphere, to give their advice in matters of peace and war, to hold
conferences with the King, and offer their advices to him," were
inevitably breaking down that scheme of the Constitution to which his life
had bound him. He was by no means inclined to flatter the House of Lords,
or to exempt them from blame for much that he thought mischievous. They
had neglected their business, their discharge of their functions had been
careless and perfunctory, their meetings had been short, and their
intervention in public affairs scanty, "while the other House sat, and
drew the eyes of the kingdom upon them, as the only vigilant people for
their good." Clarendon's constitutional ideals might be mistaken; but he
was under no mistake as to the process by which they were being
undermined. He saw how fatal was the error by which the peers insisted
upon special personal privileges which lessened the esteem of their order.
He protested against that claim of exemption from arrest for debt, which
they sought to extend to their menial servants, and which led to such
exemptions being often sold by these servants to bankrupt citizens, to the
scandal of the law. It was this petty personal arrogance of the peers
which gave the House of Commons their opportunity, of which they were not
slow to make use, and in doing so they were encouraged even by those
members of the House of Peers who found their personal aims advanced by
fostering the obstinacy of the House of Commons opposition. It was his
misfortune thus to offend the sticklers for privilege in the House of
Lords, while the House of Commons were coming to consider him as the prime
obstacle in the way of their newly asserted independence. His enemies
rejoiced in such clumsy tactics, while his friends vainly desired him "to
use less fervour in these argumentations." In describing these
contentions, he uses of himself almost the very words which he had applied
to Laud in the old days when Clarendon had urged his patron to be more
careful how he gave unnecessary occasion of offence. [Footnote: Clarendon
himself remarks "that he was guilty of that himself of which he used to
accuse Archbishop Laud, that he was too proud of a good conscience"
(_Life_, iii. 266).]

"He was in that, as in many things of that kind, that related to the
offending other men, for his own sake un-counsellable; [Footnote:
_i.e._ according to Clarendon's idiom, less amenable to advice than
it would have been in his own interest to be.] not that he did not know
that it exposed him to the censure of some men who lay in wait to do him
hurt, but because he neglected those censures, nor valued the persons who
promoted them."

It was a sturdy attitude no doubt; but the Court of Charles was hardly a
scene in which it could be assumed with safety. In that tainted atmosphere
blunt-spoken sincerity could scarcely breathe.

Clarendon had attempted to make the House of Lords a buttress to the royal
prerogative. A sardonic fate taught him that the weakest support upon
which he could rely was the King, for whose power he was ready to
sacrifice his own popularity, and hazard his fortune and even his life.
His enemies could always appeal to the King's love of ease, and to his
dread of troublesome interference with his pleasures and his lavish
expense. It was on these ignoble motives that they now relied. The Irish
Bill must be passed, or supplies would not be forthcoming, the threatening
murmurs of the people would take shape in action, and the luxuries and the
debaucheries of Whitehall would no longer be left in peace. So Charles's
conscientious objections again disappeared. The Lords who were in the
confidence of the King were bidden to abate their opposition; the Commons
had their way, the injustice to Ireland was forgotten, and the Bill was
passed. Charles and his flatterers persuaded themselves that the surrender
was the fruit of sagacious policy; they gave full rein to their sarcastic
humour in the ridicule of Clarendon and the belated obstinacy of his
loyalty to the constitution.

Charles gave his assent to the Irish Bill on January 18th, and in his
Speech on that occasion he announced to Parliament their speedy
prorogation, and recalled to their minds with some emphasis the forgotten
business of supply. This appeal had a good effect, and for very shame the
House placed the King in the position to discharge some of his seamen's
arrears of pay, and to put some portion of his fleet in fighting trim.
[Footnote: In the speech of thanks for this grant the Chancellor persuaded
the King to express his hope that provisos like that of the Appropriation
Bill would in future be dropped. It was a reflection on Sir W. Coventry's
plan, and as such was taken by Coventry himself. (See Pepys, April 1,
1667.)] Parliament was prorogued on February 8th, and the King had the
satisfaction of reminding the Commons that the Bill for the audit of
accounts had never been presented to him, and that he proposed himself to
issue a commission for the purpose. We can scarcely doubt that this last
resolution was adopted by the advice of Clarendon himself. He disliked the
encroachment of the Commons, but it was no part of his desire to keep the
light of day from the scandals of financial administration. Such a
commission, not extorted from the King as an insult, but resting upon his
own authority, might perform a necessary and useful work, and care was
taken in the selection of commissioners to give no suspicion of weakness
or partiality. Before it could do effective work, Clarendon had ceased to
guide the nation's policy.

The pressure of Parliamentary opposition was for the time removed. But the
troubles of the King's Minister were by no means at an end. The war
dragged on its course, our resources were nearly drained, the navy was
reduced to inefficiency, our foes were encouraged to new efforts by our
disasters. We have already [Footnote: Chapter XXI.] seen the insults which
England was yet to undergo before the relief of a not very creditable
peace was won, and to what dire necessities the Treasury was reduced for
lack of funds. We have learned how, at that juncture, [Footnote: Chapter
XXI.] Clarendon differed from the other advisers of the King, was adverse
to convoking Parliament, and suggested the unwelcome device of a loan to
tide over the emergency. Peace came at last. But it brought no
satisfaction to the nation, and no recompense for her vast expenditure. It
left the relations between Clarendon and the King sadly strained, and it
did not soften the growing unpopularity of the Minister with the country
party, or bring oblivion of his sharp passages with the House of Commons.
On the contrary, it is precisely from this moment that Clarendon dated the
rise of that storm that was to "destroy all his prosperity, and shipwreck
all his hopes." The cloud had indeed been thickening, and the waves had
been gathering new force, for months and even years. Clarendon professes
his knowledge of the plots that had long been undermining his power.

All that he means by dating the storm from this period, is that the long
threatened tempest now burst in its full force. But the struggle was to be
maintained, not without hopes, for a few months more.

Clarendon had the satisfaction of finding that the summoning of
Parliament, in the spring of 1667, to which he had been strongly opposed,
and the legality of which he doubted, [Footnote: See _ante_, p. 206.]
was after all rendered unnecessary by the near prospect of peace. But
Clarendon's opposition to the proposal had increased, if possible, his
unpopularity with the Commons, and suspicions had been rife that he
desired to raise revenue without Parliamentary consent. The disasters
which attended the last stages of the war did not allay the general
discontent, and when the peace was at last signed on July 2lst, 1667, it
found Court and Ministers alike under the cloud of popular jealousy. Only
two months before Clarendon had lost the stay and support of that
colleague, whose sympathies were closest to his own, the loyalty of whose
friendship was most untainted, and upon whose character and high rank
Clarendon could rely to balance the jealousy of his own promotion--too
sudden not to offend the pride of the older nobility. With touching
anxiety, Clarendon had sought to defend his old friend, now enfeebled by
age and ill-health, from the unseemly efforts that had been made to remove
him by those who sought to fill his place, but it may be doubted whether
in doing so he acted in the real interests of Southampton's reputation.
His desire to keep his old friend at his side was only natural. Both had
passed through hard straits, and both--because Southampton was only the
Chancellor's senior by a year--were now prematurely aged. Clarendon and he
were the last of the old band who had rallied to the King in 1640, and a
true instinct taught him that they must stand or fall together. All the
most cherished memories of his life, all that was most sacred in his loyal
devotion to his first master, all the vicissitudes of his fortunes, were
associated in Clarendon's mind with the friendship which began when they
were students together at Magdalen, and was cemented when they had been
forced together, by the excesses of the party with which they had at first
been in sympathy, to attach themselves to the Royalist side, at a time
when that side had ceased to have any means of attracting the support of
selfish ambition. They had alike been averse to the proceedings of the
Court during the days when Parliamentary Government was suspended,
[Footnote: Southampton had suffered severely in purse from the claims put
forward by the Crown on his estates in Hampshire; and we have already seen
how little Hyde sympathized with the rigour with which such claims were
pressed.

This Thomas Wriothesley, third Earl of Southampton, was the son of the
second Earl, whose name is immortalized as the patron and the friend of
Shakespeare. It is interesting to remember that one of his daughters (he
left no male heir) was the wife of William, Lord Russell, condemned and
executed in 1683.] and had welcomed what they hoped would be a return to
sounder methods when Parliament was again summoned. Both had seen much
amiss in the government of Strafford, and had been glad to think that what
they deemed his innovations would receive a check. Both had revolted
against the proceedings of the Parliament, when these transgressed the
law, and both resented the flagrant injustice which procured the judicial
murder of Strafford. Southampton brought to the service of the King the
prestige of high rank, the respect earned by a character which scorned
intrigue, and a judgment too sound to be led astray by any violence of
partisan passion. His loyalty was untainted and unswerving. [Footnote:
Southampton is said to have kept watch over the body of the murdered King,
during the night when it lay in Whitehall. It was he who told of the
mysterious muffled figure that stole into the Hall during the night, and
muttered the words, "Imperious necessity," and whom he always believed to
have been Cromwell. After his master's death he compounded with the new
Government for his delinquency, and lived in retirement. But he sent
encouragement to Charles when a fugitive after the battle of Worcester,
and continued, according to his abilities, to minister to his needs during
the long exile.] Save to those who knew him intimately, his character was
tinged with melancholy, and its impression was not lessened by the
habitual gloom which his outward aspect wore. In the inner circle of his
friends, he could indulge in a quaint humour, and was no unkindly
companion. He was not the only one of Clarendon's contemporaries whose
temperament was not proof against the depression born of the troubles of
the time. Alike from the ungrudging admiration which Clarendon expresses
for his life-long friend, from the captious criticism of those to whom his
long tarrying on the stage was irksome, and from the irresponsible gossip
of Pepys, we have a vivid picture of the veteran statesman as he appeared
to his contemporaries. In outward carriage grave and distant, girt with
that ample ceremony of manner which repelled familiarity; easy and prompt
in debate, with that sense of self-confidence which permits a man to think
on his feet, and to dispense with any niceties of diction; ready to rouse
himself to prolonged and earnest labour, but by habit and preference
indolent and a lover of his ease--they all present the same features in
their portraits. He was a loyal friend, save when a nice sense of the
respect due to his rank and character, provoked him to resentment against
any fancied neglect; prudent and adroit in counsel, but perhaps lacking in
the energy which was required to translate that counsel into action;
steadfast, rather than alert, in vindicating the primary duty of sound
finance. Clarendon is compelled to admit that "he was naturally lazy, and
indulged over much ease to himself;" but he can tell us of the unwonted
exertion of which Southampton showed himself capable during the treating
at Uxbridge, when he worked continuously for twenty days on end, and
curtailed his habitual ten hours of sleep to a maximum of five. His pride
involved him in a passing quarrel with Prince Rupert, whose extravagant
assertion of precedence provoked him, and whose challenge he accepted; but
his sound judgment, and his well-tried rectitude were enough, after
friends had interfered, to prevent the untoward meeting, and to bind him
and the Prince in the bonds of an enduring friendship. Like Clarendon, a
sound friend to the Church, he was, also like him, essentially a layman,
not without distrust of the wisdom of political ecclesiastics. Because he
was not disposed to underrate the force of the Presbyterian party, and was
disinclined to provoke them to open revolt, the Bishops, according to
Clarendon, were wont to impute to him disloyalty to the Church. Clarendon
himself, confirmed enemy of Presbyterianism as he was, knew by experience
on how flimsy grounds such charges might be brought. [Footnote: Pepys, in
many lively passages, adds new touches to the portraiture of the
Treasurer. On November 19, 1663, he is summoned to the Lord Treasurer's
house, and finds him "a very ready man and certainly a brave subject to
the King." Pepys is troubled only with the "long nails, which he lets grow
upon a pretty short white hand." On September 9, 1665, he recounts the
story of one of his gossips--how "the Lord Treasurer minds his ease, and
lets things go how they will; if he can have his £8000 per annum, and a
game at _l'ombre,_ he is well." When the end comes, Pepys--while he
admits that "the slowness and remissness of that great man" have done much
harm--yet discerns that the prospect for the future is far gloomier by his
loss. Even Coventry, when he was gone, could recall the Lord Treasurer
whom he had so often thwarted as "a wise and solid though infirm man."]

Southampton was not one of those personalities that stand out strongly
upon the page of history. Born to great station, he accepted and fulfilled
its responsibilities; but he was without initiative, and without that
secret of personal force which dominates a generation and leads a party.
As in the case of many a Minister, before and since, it is to be feared
that what his enemies said was true--that Sir Philip Warwick, his
secretary, was Treasurer in all but name. Pepys tells us of his own long
interviews with Warwick, and it is clear that it was at these interviews,
and not at formal conferences with the Lord Treasurer, that the finance of
the navy was arranged. He pictures [Footnote: _Diary_, April 12,
1665.] in a few graphic words, the scene at one of these formal
conferences.

"Strange to see how they hold up their hands crying, What shall we do?
Says my Lord Treasurer, 'Why, what means all this, Mr. Pepys? This is all
true, you say; but what would you have me to do? I have given all I can
for my life. Why will not people lend their money? Why will they not trust
the King as well as Oliver?'"

It is true comedy. But the flux of Pepys's gossippy confidences is a hard
ordeal even for a Minister so worthy as Southampton to pass. Perhaps Pepys
also gives us the best picture of his death, quaintly as it is expressed.
[Footnote: _Diary_, May 19, 1667.]

"Great talk of the good end that my Lord Treasurer made; closing his own
eyes, and setting his mouth, and bidding adieu with the greatest content
and freedom in the world, and is said to die with the cleanest hands that
ever Lord Treasurer did."

It is no dishonourable epitaph. The career that closed left no brilliant
mark, but in its tenor, as in its ending, it is typical of the grave and
balanced dignity, the loyalty to his Church, to his sovereign, to himself,
that were distinctive of that race of the English nobility who were now to
give place to a newer fashion. For us, the closing of that career is
chiefly interesting, as it revives in Clarendon the memory of that older
order to which he was so passionately attached, and as it carried away one
of the few remaining barriers between him and friendless isolation.

The question of the succession to Southampton gave new subject of
difference between the Chancellor and the King. Charles was determined, as
he had been when there was a talk of Southampton's resignation, to replace
the Treasurership by Commissioners, and had been persuaded by the faction
opposed to Clarendon no longer to have one Minister supreme in finance.
Again Clarendon remonstrated, and urged that this was a scheme fitted for
a republic, and incompatible with the principles of monarchy. It seemed to
him one more symptom of the substitution of an official bureaucracy for
personal rule. It is no reflection upon his sincerity to admit that, in
this, as in many of the principles to which he so obstinately adhered in
these later days, he was sometimes moved rather by prejudice than by sound
reason. He knew the rottenness of the Court, and the little trust that was
to be placed in those who had gained Charles's ear; and that knowledge
blinded him to the fact that inveteracy in opposition to prevailing views
was no safe or prudent policy for him at this juncture. Himself a man
risen from the middle class, he nevertheless held that the natural
custodians of the executive power were men who by hereditary rank, and by
outstanding position, could acquire, if not the confidence, at least the
implicit obedience, of the people. Long association with men of the
highest rank, had imbued him with their feelings, and made him the
champion of their privileges. Familiar with the ignoble wiles and
stratagems which impelled political adventurers, he clung, like many a man
before and since, to the habits and the prejudices of a lifetime, and
refused to admit any change operating in the spirit of the age. Amongst
the forces opposed to him, he still looked with special dislike upon the
active and indomitable spirit of Sir William Coventry. Coventry's ability
Clarendon was compelled to admit; but he gave him perhaps too little
credit for energy and foresight, and for undoubted administrative
efficiency. We need not take Coventry altogether at Clarendon's valuation.
The two men were out of sympathy, and Coventry was far from sharing that
ungrudging loyalty to King and Church which Clarendon reckoned as the test
of a sound citizen. Coventry irritated that love of discipline which was
the habit of Clarendon's life. He belonged to a new generation, and did
not conceal his contempt for that careful attention to precedent which was
to Clarendon a second nature. His advancement had seemed to Clarendon
unduly rapid, and his impetuous self-assertion, both in Parliament and in
the Privy Council, provoked Clarendon's ire. His one actuating motive, in
Clarendon's eyes, was boundless ambition, and he saw him only as the
confederate of those who thought to govern at once King and Parliament, by
dexterous parliamentary management, and by grasping at the machinery of
administration. Coventry's later life proved that he was no eager seeker
after office. Only a few months after Clarendon's fall, he stoutly opposed
the insolence of Buckingham, and felt the effects of royal displeasure
when Buckingham had regained his hold on the facile disposition of the
King. He lost all his appointments; and even though, after a short
detention in the Tower, he recovered his freedom and gained the cordial
support of a powerful body of friends, he refused to range himself with
any party, and declined all suggestions that he should again take office.
Of his personal ability, of the respect which he inspired in others than
Clarendon, and of his administrative efficiency, we have abundant evidence
from other authorities, including both Evelyn and Pepys. He professed
himself, in confidential conversation with Pepys, as inspired by no
personal prejudice against Clarendon or Southampton. Even the fullest
confidence in Clarendon's rectitude cannot blind us to the fact that
neither he nor the Treasurer was now in the full vigour of his prime, that
more direct and personal supervision of the details of administration than
they could give was needed to restore either efficiency or confidence, and
that Coventry might honestly believe this. It is no reflection on the
loyalty with which Clarendon clung to a thankless task, if we admit that
it might have fared better with him had he recognized sooner that the
accomplishment of that task, as he had conceived it, was now hopelessly
impossible. The truth is that Clarendon's memory still turned to a time,
not so distant, when the relinquishment of office by a Minister meant a
permanent breach with the Sovereign, suspicion of treason, the downfall of
his fortunes, and also the hazard of his life. The change brought about by
government by party, in which a Minister might retire from office, and
none the less continue to play a high and influential part in the
political history of his country, was slowly but surely coming. Had
Clarendon recognized it, there seems to have been nothing to prevent his
retiring from office, and still continuing to exercise a potent influence
in the counsels of the nation. But he found no precedent in history for
such a course. Retirement to him meant defeat, disgrace, and ruin. It may
be doubted whether his own dogged tenacity, brave and conscientious as it
was, did not itself give his ultimate retirement that added meaning. In
adhering to the service of the King, he perhaps forgot that loyalty may
only be wasted on an unwilling object, and that satiety is a prolific
breeder of ingratitude.

Before the storm broke, there was another Court scandal--for it is worthy
of no higher name-that stirred the turbid political waters, and further
complicated the difficulties of Clarendon's position. The Duke of
Buckingham, that strange personality--half statesman, half buffoon--who
occupied no inconsiderable part of the stage in Charles's Court, managed
to embroil himself in some extraordinary escapade, or some more than
usually freakish piece of mischief, which for once stirred the ordinarily
phlegmatic temper of the King. To probe its details would serve no good
purpose; if it did not originate in, it was no doubt aggravated by, one of
those entanglements common to the life of the bagnio, which Charles's
Court so faithfully reflected. Some wrangle as to the enjoyment of the
facile charms of one of the royal mistresses, or the disputed paternity of
some bastard, very probably was the origin of an ignoble quarrel which
presently reached the dimensions of an affair of State, occupied the
attention of the Privy Council for no inconsiderable period, and involved
a charge of treason, formulated and then abandoned with the reckless
frivolity of the comic stage. We shall probably not be far wrong in
ascribing the beginning of the trouble to Lady Castlemaine, who found her
hold upon the royal favour threatened by some ill-timed intrigue of
Buckingham. A charge of treason was brought against Buckingham, who was
known to have at his command a rascally band of bullies and charlatans,
who disturbed the streets of London, and whose outrages were not kept
outside the precincts even of the Court itself. An assortment of sorry
evidence was brought before the Council, and Buckingham was shown to have
trafficked with astrologers and cut-throats, whose designs seemed to have
threatened even the life of the King. He had permitted them to address him
in language which indicated that he had cherished ambitions of hair-
brained folly, if not of treasonable insolence, and which flattered him
with thoughts of his boundless influence with the mob. The matter was
brought to Clarendon's knowledge by the King; but the Chancellor
endeavoured as far as possible to hold aloof from the squalid inquiry,
which was pushed forward chiefly by Arlington and his sworn ally, the Lady
Castlemaine. A warrant was issued for Buckingham's apprehension; and when
he withdrew from the Court, a proclamation was published that charged him
with treason, and required his surrender. The sheriff's messenger that
followed him to his retreat in the country was openly defied, and
Buckingham managed for weeks to elude the clutches of the law. The dignity
of justice was degraded, and the King's warrant was mocked, as long as
Buckingham thought he might rely upon the weakness of the King, and his
fears of Buckingham's being provoked to reprisals which might attach new
scandal to the Court. While the warrant was out against him, the Duke was
bold enough to resort to Clarendon, and to invoke his aid in securing for
him an interview with the King, in which he was confident that he might
allay the passing anger. Clarendon could only advise his surrender, and
assure him that nothing would be allowed to interfere with the even-handed
administration of justice. Clarendon refused to denounce to Buckingham
those who were his enemies, and evidently had no desire to secure for
himself, by so doing, the gratitude or the alliance of such a man. The
Duke at length found that it was either necessary or safe to surrender
himself; and, in the examination which ensued, he showed all his usual
insolence, and his confidence in his hold over the King. He treated the
evidence as worthless, and forced Charles himself to admit that some of
the correspondence had its origin in Court intrigue. The quarrel with Lady
Castlemaine was composed, and from being bitter enemies, she and the Duke
became sworn allies, who joined forces in denouncing Clarendon, and found
abettors in those who had lately been the Duke's accusers. A man of much
less than Clarendon's pride and dignity might well have despised such
intrigues; but events soon proved how fickle was the support upon which he
could rely in trusting to the gratitude of the King. The incident, as
lightly closed as it had been recklessly begun, resulted only in knitting
more closely the designs of those who were relentlessly pursuing the
object of ending his power and procuring his downfall. No scruples were
likely to stay the hands of the sorry band of conspirators.




CHAPTER XXV

THE TRIUMPH OF FACTION


Just as peace had been cemented amongst his enemies, in preparation for a
final attack, Clarendon was struck by a heavy blow of domestic
bereavement. Throughout all the vicissitudes of his life, amidst the
hardships of exile, and in the still heavier anxieties that surrounded his
later years of seeming prosperity, Clarendon had ever found in his family
a centre of affection, and a source of consolation--broken only for a
season when his eldest daughter was raised, by her marriage with the Duke,
to a position which Clarendon knew well involved danger, both for her and
for himself. His wife had proved an affectionate helpmate, and it is to
her credit that in these Court circles which jealousy had rendered
vigilant of any trace of scandal, and keen to note any assumption of
arrogance, the wife of the Chancellor provoked the attacks of no enemies,
and managed to elude the wrangles and bickerings of the Palace. In the
summer of 1667, after a brief illness, she who had been his life's
companion was taken from him, when, deprived of all his early friends, he
was most in need of the comfort of a loving heart. Belonging, by birth, to
the higher grade of the squirearchy, Lady Clarendon had married in her own
rank, with every promise of all the comfort and dignity of honoured
station, and in the first years had enjoyed a rare felicity of happy
wedded life. When the career of politics absorbed her husband, she
submitted without murmur to the interruption of that happiness, and in
after years, without repining, she accepted the burden of the breaking up
of her home, long years of anxiety, and the trials and privations of
exile. She carried her later elevation to high rank without pride or
ostentation. She does not lose her right to our respect because she earned
what the Greek historian pronounces to be woman's highest glory, the least
noisy echo either of praise or blame. That helpmate he lost just at the
moment when all the forces of factious bitterness, of meanness, and of
ingratitude, were preparing to vent their venom upon him.

The loss fell upon one already sorely tried by long and painful illness,
against which he fought with courageous manliness. He was well aware that
the weight of ill-will was rapidly accumulating against him. He had
opposed the summoning of Parliament for the purpose of securing supplies
to meet the exigencies of the war, on the ground that such anticipation of
the day fixed for the resumption of its business was illegal. The
expedient he had contemplated was a temporary loan, and this had been
easily twisted, by the perverseness of his enemies, into a suggestion of
raising funds without the consent of Parliament, in order to maintain a
standing army. His advice had been set aside, and Parliament had been
summoned for July 25th. But peace had already been secured, and immediate
supply was no longer necessary. The King prorogued Parliament on July
29th, but not before the House had passed a resolution against a standing
army. This abrupt dismissal of Parliament, when its presence was no longer
called for, inflamed the anger against Clarendon. Those who had hoped to
find an opportunity of pressing home their attack upon him in Parliament
were indignant at the loss of this opportunity. Even the moderate men
desired an explanation, and wished to be relieved of suspicions that
arbitrary taxation was once more to be attempted. Those who were
scandalized by the proceedings of the Court were prepared to make their
anger felt, and had no mind to be silenced. The country members had
trooped to Westminster from all parts of England, when long journeys were
no easy matter. They returned home in no pleasant humour, grudging at once
the expense which they had borne, and the muzzling to which they were
subjected; [Footnote: See Pepys' _Diary_, under July 29,1667.] and
the murmuring all fell upon Clarendon's devoted head. It was just as it
grew most threatening that his wife's death plunged him into mourning.

"Within a few days after his wife's death, the King vouchsafed to come to
his house to condole with him, and used many gracious expressions to him."
[Footnote: _Life_, iii. 282.] When Charles had a scheme on foot that was
peculiarly shabby or selfish, he knew how to conceal his intention under a
gracious manner. The limit of his patience to suffer Clarendon's
scoldings, or of his power to resist the pressure of his boon companions,
was nearly reached; but he could yet hope that a solution might be found
that would save any vexatious upbraidings. Clarendon might surely be
persuaded to retire, and the peace of the Court would not then be broken
by these troublesome wranglings. Less than a fortnight afterwards, the
Duke of York was made the bearer of an astounding message. The King, he
told Clarendon, had asked after him, and had been told by the Duke that
"he was the most disconsolate man he ever saw;" that not only was he
grieved for the loss of his wife, but that he feared he had lost the
favour of his master, who seemed of late to have "withdrawn his
countenance from him." Charles had made an evasive answer; but on a later
day he explained himself more fully to the Duke. He knew, he said, from
sure information that the Chancellor was "very odious" to the Parliament,
and that at its next meeting an impeachment would certainly be moved. "Not
only had he opposed them in all those things upon which they had set their
hearts, but he had proposed and advised their dissolution." For the good
of his Majesty's service, and for his own preservation, it was
imperatively necessary that he should deliver up the seal. He might choose
himself what should be the manner of doing so--whether it should be done
personally, or through an intermediary. The Duke did not deny the danger,
but he lamented the resolution of the King.

Clarendon was profoundly astonished. That the plainness of his criticism
and advice had come to irritate the King, and that a persistent plotting
against his influence was on foot, could hardly have been news to him.
Strong as were his reasons for distrusting Charles, he can hardly have
failed to have measured the depths of his dissimulation, or to have
realized his readiness to yield to pressure. But his confidence in his own
rectitude made him bold. He refused to believe that the majority of the
House distrusted him, or that his enemies had that commanding influence
which they claimed in order to intimidate the King. He was confident that,
be their malice what it might, the Parliament was not of their mind. In
that belief he demanded to speak with the King, before he delivered up the
seal. He could not, indeed, go to the King, as gout disabled him, and the
usages of the day did not permit of his being seen abroad so soon after
the death of his wife; but the Duke did not doubt that he could prevail
with the King to do as he had often done before, and come to Clarendon
House. That hope was not fulfilled; the King declined to visit Clarendon,
but was prepared to see him at Whitehall.

It may well be doubted whether Clarendon would not have served his own
cause better, and that with no injury to public interests, had he complied
with the request. His health was now broken; the phalanx of his enemies
was overwhelmingly strong; and even had he been allowed to breast the
storm for a few years more, and had he found that courageous support which
it was not in Charles's nature to give, in maintaining the fight, he must
have carried on his work in the face of increasing petulance on the part
of his master, and increasing bitterness of venom from his enemies. The
hopes that had inspired him, when he saw the Restoration accomplished, had
long vanished; it could have been with only a shadow of his old courage
that he would still have continued to guide the ship of the State. Charles
was shrewd enough in judging the temper of the nation, and could form a
good estimate of the force of the opposition; and there is no reason to
think that he was wrong in supposing that a timely surrender would have
saved his Minister from anything more than the loss of office--a loss to
which Clarendon would not have attached much importance. The very fact
that his enemies were obnoxious to the darts of scandal, and that the
nation was watching them jealously; the very probability that many would
have resented the fall of a Minister who had notoriously fought against
the flagrant indecencies of the Court--these were additional reasons why
Arlington and his faction would have been content with the removal of the
object of their hatred, and would perhaps have foregone further
persecution. Clarendon's voluntary retirement, upon the private suggestion
conveyed from the King, might have saved him from the hardships that
darkened his closing years, and might have prevented his feeling, in its
full force, the poison of the King's ingratitude.

But we must remember other considerations that could not be absent from
Clarendon's mind. History had not yet many instances to show of a Minister
who had fallen from high place, and yet was suffered to lead a private
life in peace. It was just a quarter of a century since Essex had used the
menacing words in regard to Strafford, "Stone-dead hath no fellow."
Arlington's ill-gotten influence might have felt itself threatened, if an
ex-Chancellor with Clarendon's unrivalled prestige had been ready to
permit his mansion in Piccadilly to be the resort of all who sought to
form a powerful parliamentary opposition. The instinct of self-
preservation may well have suggested to Clarendon that there might be few
steps between his abdication and the Tower and scaffold. But still more,
the central principles of his life forbade Clarendon to desert his post.
He might not infrequently be prejudiced; he certainly was often sternly
obstinate; he took too little account of the views of other men, and
failed to adapt himself to the changed circumstances of the day. But
never, in all his career, did he compromise with his duty, or give way to
threats of personal danger. Adversity and he had long been familiar, and
it may be doubted whether he would not have preferred to accept those few
last years of banishment, rather than have yielded one jot of his own
relentless resolution, or given occasion to his enemies to boast that they
had made him shrink before them. We may doubt the wisdom of his decision;
we cannot refuse our homage to his undaunted courage.

But the breach between the King and the Chancellor, and Clarendon's
threatened fall, were already the theme of Court gossip. The Duchess
learned that his resignation had been demanded, and she, with his old
friend Archbishop Sheldon, and the Duke of Albemarle, joined in
remonstrating with the King in no measured terms. Other lesser persons
followed their example, and Charles soon found that the change was not to
be carried out without seriously impinging on his own cherished ease. He
protested that he sought nothing but Clarendon's safety, and that he had
believed from what he had heard "of the extreme agony the Chancellor was
in upon the death of his wife, that he had himself desired to be dismissed
from his office." Albemarle was sent to require Clarendon's presence at
Whitehall, and seems both to have believed, and to have desired, that what
was but a passing misunderstanding might be easily arranged. The
interview, at which the Duke of York was present, took place upon August
26th. Charles received him graciously and protested his sense of his high
services, and his earnest desire to preserve him from the malice of his
enemies. He did not scruple to add that he "had verily believed" that the
demand for his resignation "had his own consent and desire." He had
fancied that his brother concurred, however much he now protested. It is
not impossible to believe that James may have found it convenient not to
speak in exactly the same tone to his father-in-law and to his brother.

But apart from all mistakes as to personal feeling, the King was positive
not only as to the intention of impeachment, but that the fate of
Strafford would be the probable result for Clarendon, if he did not yield
to the storm. If he did so yield, Charles was confident that he could
preserve him, and that he could in this way best provide for his own
business. He added a consideration which really gave the lie to what he
had just said. "He was sorry that the business had taken so much air, and
was so publicly spoken of, that he knew not how to change his purpose." He
had surely a better reason for not changing his purpose, if he was
persuaded that no change could be made without hazard to the Chancellor's
life.

Clarendon's reply to Charles's shuffling was firm and dignified. He had no
desire that the King should change his resolution. But he would not suffer
it to be believed that his delivery of the seal was his own willing act.
"He should not think himself a gentleman, if he were willing to depart,
and withdraw himself from office, in a time when he thought his Majesty
would have need of all honest men." Neither was he ready to acknowledge
that the deprivation was "in order to do him good." It was "the greatest
ruin he could undergo," and instead of saving him, it would deliver him, a
discredited man, to the malice and vengeance of his enemies. His last
declaration was the most scornful of all.

"He renounced his Majesty's protection or interposition towards his
preservation. He feared no censure, if his Majesty should reveal all that
he had counselled him in secret. If any one could charge him with a crime,
he was ready to undergo the punishment."

Such words as these are strange, to be uttered by a falling Minister to
his King, when that King is trying to cloak his own meanness by a pretence
of a single-minded desire to save that Minister; they would be stranger
still if they had been used by a man conscious of any guilt. But Clarendon
did not stop there; he turned the tables fiercely upon the King.

"He doubted very much that the throwing off an old servant who had served
the Crown in some trust near thirty years (who had the honour by the
command of his blessed father, who had left good evidence of the esteem he
had of his fidelity, to wait upon his Majesty when he went out of the
kingdom, and, by the great blessing of God, had the honour to return with
him again; which no other counsellor alive could say), on a sudden,
without any suggestion of a crime, nay, with a declaration of innocence,
would call his Majesty's justice and good nature into question."

Charles had pretended to be working for his servant's safety, and in
accordance with what he thought that he desired. That servant brushes
aside his subterfuges, renounces his protection, and plainly tells him
that the course he proposes to follow will stamp him as an ungrateful
master, and drive every honest man to abandon his service. No wonder that
the King seemed "very much troubled." He pleaded the power of Parliament,
and how he was "at their mercy." Clarendon could only advise him not to
act the coward. He had a warning in the fate of Richard II. of what faint-
heartedness in a King might bring. In his last thrust Clarendon forgot--as
he himself admits--the bounds of prudence. "In the warmth of this relation,
he found a seasonable opportunity to mention the Lady with some
reflections and cautions, which he might more advisedly have declined."
The close of his final interview was perhaps an ill-chosen moment for
wounding the King's pride by another reference to the foul-mouthed
termagant, who now swayed the Court, and trampled on her royal lover with
the usual insolence of the pampered courtesan.

The visit of the King and the Duke to Clarendon's chamber at Whitehall,
where the interview took place, lasted two hours, and at its end the King
rose in silence and retired ill-pleased. Meantime the tongues of the Court
gossips were busy. When the conference closed, the garden was filled with
a crowd of courtiers, eager to watch the countenance of the King. As the
Chancellor left the presence of his master, "the Lady, the Lord Arlington,
and Mr. May, [Footnote: Bab May, the Keeper of the Privy Purse, and
minister to Charles's pleasures. See _ante_, p. 244.] looked together
out of her open window with great gaiety and triumph, which all people
observed." The fallen Minister could spare a moment's attention, to mark
the dramatic fitness of the scene. [Footnote: Clarendon, _Life_, iii. 291.
Pepys gives us the scene with more detail (_Diary_, August 27). "Mr.
Pierce, the surgeon, tells me how this business of my Lord Chancellor's
was certainly designed in my Lady Castlemaine's chamber; and that, when he
went from the King on Monday morning, she was in bed, though about twelve
o'clock, and ran out in her smock into her aviary looking into Whitehall
Garden; and thither her woman brought her her nightgown; and stood joying
herself at the old man's going away; and several of the gallants of
Whitehall, of which there were many staying to see the Chancellor's
return, did talk to her in her bird cage; amongst others Blancfort (the
Marquis de Blanquefort), telling her she was the bird of Paradise."]

Two or three days passed, during which the plot ripened amidst the gossip
of the quidnuncs. To those of his more sober-minded counsellors, who spoke
for the Chancellor, the King professed much kindness for him, but "he had
made himself odious to the Parliament, and was no more capable to do him
service." The Lady, Arlington, and Bab May still honoured him by their
fervent denunciation, and by their sure prediction of his speedy fall.
Evelyn visited him the day after his interview with the King, and "found
him in his bedchamber, very sad." "He had enemies at Court," Evelyn goes
on, "especially the buffoons and ladies of pleasure, because he had
thwarted some of them and stood in their way; I could name some of them."
The next day Evelyn dined with him, and found him "pretty well in heart,
though now many of his friends and sycophants abandoned him." Clarendon
knew the world too well to be surprised or grieved by such abandonment, or
to allow it to affect his fortitude.

The Duke of York, none of the most adroit or persuasive of advocates,
still stood his friend, and endeavoured to bend the purpose of the King.
Sir William Coventry, always--although afterwards he disclaimed it to
Pepys--one of the most pronounced of Clarendon's enemies, found it
necessary to resign his post of secretary to the Duke, and the place was
filled by one whom Clarendon suggested. It may be doubted whether the
change was meant as more than an outward sign to Clarendon that he still
retained his son-in-law's respect. The fight between his friends and
enemies still proceeded apace. When the Duke of York attempted to stem the
tide against him, Charles only replied, "that he had gone too far to
retire; that he should be looked on as a child if he receded from his
purpose." Selfishness and love of ease blunted Charles's judgment; they
did not interfere with that obstinacy which was a dominant trait in the
family character. Only two days later he took the decisive step, and sent
Secretary Morrice with a warrant under the sign manual, to demand the
seal.[Footnote: The seal was entrusted to Sir Orlando Bridgeman, as Lord
Keeper.] The Chancellor delivered it "with all expressions of duty to the
King." If Charles felt the stings of conscience for his sorry action, he
could comfort himself with the congratulations of the Court pandar, Bab
May. That worthy fell upon his knees, kissed the King's hand, and told him
"that he was now King, which he had never been before." [Footnote: See
Pepys, _Diary_, November 11, 1667.] It was an odd change, from the
dignified loyalty of Clarendon to the fulsome flattery of Bab May. Even
the scanty pride that had survived in one degraded by sottish debauchery
might have been nauseated by the contrast.

Clarendon was mistaken if he thought that compliance with the King's
request had either satisfied the rancour of his enemies, or secured for
him the King's support. At first he hoped the storm was over, and after an
interval sufficient to show that he was conscious of no guilt, and sought
to hide himself from no inquiry, he intended to retire to the country, and
live as a private gentleman. He had no fear either of Parliament or of his
countrymen, and was ready to abide their question. He heard that the King
dreaded his assumption of the part of leader of a Parliamentary
opposition, and hastened to assure him that he had no such intention. His
friends still resorted to his house, and those who respected themselves
declined, at the bidding of an ignoble clique, to lessen the signs of
their respect for him. The King had not courage enough to forbid such
demonstrations; but at the instigation of his new confidants he sulked and
uttered vague hints, to which Clarendon's enemies gave open and more
definite utterance. They had secured the cordial alliance of Buckingham,
by persuading him that Clarendon had been at the root of his recent
prosecution. Thus reinforced they resolved to make their vengeance more
complete.

The King had induced Clarendon to yield, as the only means by which the
wrath of Parliament could be stayed, and that had undoubtedly been the
pretext put forward to the King by Arlington, and those who acted with
him. But now they went further. So long as Clarendon remained at liberty,
they dreaded his influence, and persuaded the King that he would spread
suspicion and disaffection, and would obstruct every design of the
Government. Charles was weak enough to believe a slander, which no one who
has studied Clarendon's life and character can for one moment accept, and
which Clarendon himself had expressly repudiated. When the Duke of York
expostulated, Charles shuffled and prevaricated after his wont. "All might
have been quiet, if only the Chancellor had been more practicable; but he
had delayed so long, that now the King was compelled 'in the vindication
of his honour,' to give some reason for what he had done." Those who
praised the Chancellor so loudly were reflecting upon himself. But if he
were freed from these inconvenient demonstrations, the Chancellor would
not suffer, and he would use his sons as kindly as ever, Charles was not
rancorous, but his gleams of good nature only mark his cowardice more
strongly.

In his Speech at the opening of Parliament on October loth, the King
attempted to smooth matters over. "There had been miscarriages;" but he
"had altered his counsels;" "what had been done amiss had been by the
advice of the person whom he had removed from his counsels, and with whom
he should not hereafter advise." No man ever betrayed a faithful servant
with more consummate self-abasement.

The House was asked by some to thank the King "for removing the
Chancellor," but it was thought premature to do so, and a committee was
appointed to draft a reply. The King--so Clarendon's enemies represented--
was offended by the omission, and the Court party pressed for a specific
vote, which should endorse his action in the dismissal. That was carried
after a keen debate, and by similar Court action it was pushed through the
House of Lords. The Duke remonstrated, but was told by the King "that it
should go the worse for the Chancellor if his friends opposed." We need
not be surprised that Charles doubled the weakness of the coward by the
allied blustering of the bully.

Again the King thought that he had satisfied the rancour of Clarendon's
enemies, and had vindicated sufficiently the petty jealousy which he
himself still felt at the memory of the Chancellor's sway. But he soon
found that he had to satisfy more exigent taskmasters. Clarendon's power,
they urged, was only scotched, not killed. His influence would soon be
supreme, and "he would come to the House with more credit to do mischief."
Grounds of accusation were greedily sought for, and readily supplied,
[Footnote: Briefly stated, these were--
1. That the Chancellor had advised the King to dissolve the Parliament and
said there could be no further need of Parliaments. That it would be best
for the King to raise a standing army, and govern by that.
2. That he had reported that the King was a Papist in his heart.
3. That he had advised the grant of a Charter to the Canary Company for
which he had received great sums of money.
4. That he had raised great sums of money by the sale of offices.
5. That he had introduced an arbitrary government into his Majesty's
several plantations.
6. That he had issued _quo warrantos_ against most corporations till
they paid him good sums of money.
7. That he received large sums for the settlement of Ireland.
8. That he had deluded the King, and betrayed the nation in all foreign
treaties.
9. That he had farmed the customs at under rates, in return for money.
10. That he had received bribes from the Vintners, to free them from
penalties due.
11. That he had raised a great state, and got grants of Crown lands.
12. That he had advised the sale of Dunkirk.
13. That he had caused letters under the great seal to be altered.
14. That he had arbitrarily raised questions of titles to land.
15. That he had been the author of the fatal counsel of dividing the fleet
in June, 1666.
16. That he had been in correspondence with Cromwell during the King's
exile.] and these contrivances soon resulted in a violent harangue from
Edward Seymour, who now made himself conspicuous in the attack upon the
fallen Minister. It is not easy to trace the special source of Seymour's
violence, but we can find sufficient to account for it in the character of
the man himself. He was of illustrious descent, as the head of the great
house of Seymour; [Footnote: Seymour was the direct representative of the
great Duke of Somerset, the Lord Protector; but the Dukedom had, by
special remainder, passed to a younger son, over the head of Edward
Seymour's ancestor. "You are of the family of the Duke of Somerset," said
William III. when he was first presented. "Pardon me, Sire," answered
Seymour, "the Duke of Somerset is of my family." ] possessed of abundant
wealth, and unbounded territorial interest in the west. But his birth and
wealth were accompanied by overweening pride and ambition, and by a
restlessness of rancorous temper that made him for more than a generation
a thorn in the side of every successive Government. With high ability, he
combined the character of a selfish voluptuary; and although possessed of
great wealth, his support was always to be bought by the offer of a place,
and he did not disdain the malpractices of a cozener in his eagerness to
increase his store. After serving as Speaker, he remained in the
Parliament, over which he had presided, as a captious and unruly partisan,
forgetting alike dignity and honour in his factious virulence. Such was
the spokesman chosen by Clarendon's enemies to frame the indictment. It
was enough for Seymour that the task seemed likely to gratify his own
ambition. His pride of birth and station no doubt gave a zest to the
attack upon one who had raised himself from the smaller squirearchy to the
place of foremost Minister. The Chancellor, he avowed vaguely, had
designed to govern by a standing army. Seymour swore that he would produce
ample proofs, and meantime he urged that a charge of treason should be
laid against Clarendon in the House of Lords. The wiser spirits, and those
who preserved some regard for the decencies of justice, refused to assent
to a course so flagrantly illegal, upon the unsupported clamour of an
arrogant youth.

After protracted debate a committee was appointed to examine precedents in
cases of impeachment. On October 29th, it presented its report, and
another keen debate ensued. Some argued that they should prefer a general
impeachment, without adducing any special charge; others, like Maynard,
argued that "common fame is no ground to accuse a man where matter of fact
is not clear; to say an evil is done, and therefore this man hath done it,
is strange in morality, more in logic." As a result, another committee was
appointed to reduce the charge against the Chancellor into heads; and that
committee then formulated their charges in seventeen heads. Again a debate
ensued upon these charges. They were discussed _seriatim_, and the
sixteenth head was reached without one being found to involve a charge of
treason.

But the zealots had now gone too far to turn back. Another of the band,
conspicuous for his profligacy even in a Court of libertines, Lord
Vaughan, the son of the Earl of Carbery, [Footnote: With bitterness, which
is perhaps pardonable, Clarendon gives him a line of unflattering
portraiture: "A person of as ill a face as fame, his looks and his manners
both extreme bad" (Clarendon, _Life_, iii. 317).] undertook to prove
another charge. The Chancellor, he avowed, had discovered the King's
secrets to the enemy. He was prepared to prove it, and, to stimulate the
virulence of those who were bent on Clarendon's ruin, Vaughan passed the
whisper along the benches, that this was in truth the source of the King's
anger against him. Charles, it would seem, had dissembled the cause of his
own jealousy to his Minister; he was content that it should be suggested
as a new incentive to that Minister's foes. Opposition was trampled upon,
and, with unseemly haste, on November 12th, Seymour was sent to the House
of Lords to impeach the Earl of Clarendon at the bar, and to desire that
his person be secured.

A new stage in the fight now began. The House of Lords, weak as, in
Clarendon's opinion, it had often been in yielding to the encroachments of
the Commons, yet contained many members who were not prepared to abandon
the very semblance of justice, and of dignified procedure, either at the
bidding of a Court clique, or before the unseemly rancour of a party in
the House of Commons. They urged that the demand of the Commons should be
peremptorily refused, and they maintained their ground so firmly before
the blustering of those who were ready not only to commit, but to convict,
the Chancellor, in obedience to the dominant faction, that the debate was
perforce adjourned. The delay continued, and the dispute raged fiercely.
To the persecution of the Chancellor there was now added the additional
zest of a struggle between the two Houses, All business was suspended
while the fight went on. The angry clique saw all their schemes
threatened, the King found his cherished ease disturbed; by some means or
other the wrangle must cease. To those who refused to bend to the storm,
hints were conveyed that they were incurring the anger of the King.
Desperate plans were discussed; and if other means failed, a guard of
soldiers might be sent to arrest the Chancellor and convey him to the
Tower. How far Charles was privy to these designs, it is impossible to
say. Reverence for the law would be no potent motive either to him, or to
the gang who had for the moment secured his confidence.

His friends urged Clarendon to make his escape. They saw the danger
increasing, and they guessed that no ill-timed interruption would be
placed in his way. Such an escape would relieve the King of a vexing
situation, and would satisfy those enemies who might, by means of it,
effectually destroy his reputation and his influence. An escape would
doubtless have been construed as an evidence of guilt; but to give way to
the malignity of his persecutors would at least have been better than
life-long imprisonment, or death upon Tower Hill. To yield to such advice
was not in keeping with Clarendon's character. He was eager to stand his
trial. Rightly or wrongly, he did unquestionably feel absolute confidence
in the support of his countrymen at large. Even were he proved to have
been mistaken, and were the power of his enemies greater than he reckoned,
he was yet ready to bear the consequences so long as his good name was
secure. Were he to fly, he would abase his pride before his foes, and
would give just ground for impugning his innocence. Nay, more, how could
he trust that he would not be captured at the first attempt to escape? It
might only be a trap laid by his enemies, who would bring him to trial
with that frustrated attempt as their securest evidence of his guilt.
Rumours were rife of the King's growing irritation, of the specific
charges to be preferred, of the proposed constitution of the commission by
which he was to be tried. The Duke of York, still faithful to the
Chancellor's cause, resolved to seek an explanation from the King. He
asked if his Majesty was determined either to have the Chancellor's life,
or his condemnation to perpetual imprisonment. Charles repudiated with his
usual facility, either idea, and swore that he wished the matter were
ended. Had the Chancellor, asked the Duke, ever proposed to govern by an
army? "Never," answered the King; "on the contrary, his fault was that he
always insisted too much upon the law." The Duke asked again, if he might
say as much to others. "With all my heart," said the King.

The statement of the King was creditable, and gave hopes to Clarendon's
friends. But when the words were repeated, they were found to be
disheartening to the conspirators, who thereupon carried their complaints
to the King. "They had tried to serve him, and now knew not how to behave
themselves." Their weapons would be gone, if the King indulged in such
inconvenient candour. The messenger was repudiated by the King with just
as much readiness as he had shown in giving his original assurances. The
Duke remonstrated, and the King's only answer was "that he would be more
careful hereafter what he said to him." The Duke might surely have learned
that the King's candid truths were often uttered only to be repudiated
when convenient.

Once more the petty scandals of licentious intrigue obtrude themselves at
the most critical juncture of a grave historic drama. In no transaction
where Charles was concerned could such sordid details be long absent. The
King's fancy had shortly before been attracted by a new denizen of the
"Lady's" drawing room, and he had become so infatuated with the charms of
Miss Stuart, [Footnote: Frances Teresa Stuart, born in 1648, was the
daughter of Dr. Walter Stuart, a cadet of the House of Blantyre. Her
father, an ardent Royalist, fled from the vengeance of Parliament, and
Frances was brought up at Paris, where her beauty and peculiar charm
attracted even royal attention. When she joined the household of Queen
Catherine in England, her loveliness captivated all hearts, and stirred
the fire of passion even in such a jaded voluptuary as the King. Her
subtle combination of virgin simplicity and adroit prudence only inflamed
him the more. For once he was consumed by an ardent love, and tortured by
a real jealousy. Hence his anger at the runaway match and all concerned in
it.

Frances Stuart steered her course with safety through many quicksands, and
died, not without honour, in 1702.] that he had seriously contemplated a
divorce, which might enable him to offer her those terms of lawful
marriage which could alone overcome her stubborn virtue, or her ambitious
prudence. Whether any such designs were actually entertained or not, the
amorous hopes of the King were speedily disappointed by the lady's
marriage with the Duke of Richmond. The royal lover was ignominiously
defeated in the only sort of rivalry which seriously touched him, and the
pride of the jaded voluptuary was more easily wounded than the honour of
the King. His vanity was ruffled, and nothing was easier for Clarendon's
enemies than to inspire Charles with the belief that his Chancellor had
arranged the marriage as the best means of stopping his licentious freak.
The story was absolutely untrue; but the certainty that it had been
conveyed to the King [Footnote: An accidental meeting of the King with
Clarendon's eldest son, Lord Cornbury, at the door of Miss Stuart's
lodging, contributed, it is said, to the King's belief of the Chancellor's
agency in the matter. Ludlow can have had no personal knowledge of the
circumstances. But he does not scruple to describe the marriage as a
contrivance of Clarendon, "that old Volpone." Volpone was a character in
one of Ben Jonson's plays.] induced Clarendon to write to Charles a letter
which might well have stirred remorse even in a heart as hardened by
selfishness as his--

"MAY IT PLEASE YOUR MAJESTY,

"I am so broken under the daily insupportable instances of your Majesty's
terrible displeasure, that I know not what to do, hardly what to wish. The
crimes which are objected against me, however passionately soever pursued,
and with circumstances very unusual, do not in the least degree fright me.
God knows I am innocent in every particular as I ought to be; and I hope
your Majesty knows enough of me to believe that I had never a violent
appetite for money that could corrupt me. But, alas! your Majesty's
declared anger and indignation deprives me of the comfort and support even
in my own innocence, and exposes me to the rage and fury of those who have
some excuse for being my enemies; whom I have sometimes displeased, when
(and only then) your Majesty believed them not to be your friends. I hope
they may be changed, I am sure I am not, but have the same duty, passion,
and affection for you that I had when you thought it most unquestionable,
and which was and is as great as ever man had for any mortal creature. I
should die in peace (and truly I do heartily wish that God Almighty would
free you from further trouble, by taking me to Himself) if I could know or
guess at the ground of your believing that I have said or done somewhat, I
have neither said nor done. If it be for anything my Lord Berkeley hath
reported, which I know he hath said to many, though being charged with it
by me he did as positively disclaim it; I am as innocent in that whole
affair, and gave no more advice or counsel or countenance in it, than the
child that is not born; which your Majesty seemed once to believe, when I
took notice to you of the report, and when you considered how totally I
was a stranger to the persons mentioned, to either of whom I never spake a
word, or received message from either in my life. And this I protest to
your Majesty is true, as I have hope in Heaven; and that I have never
wilfully offended your Majesty in my life, and do upon my knees beg your
pardon for any overbold or saucy expressions I have ever used to you;
which, being a natural disease in old servants who have received too much
countenance, I am sure hath always proceeded from the zeal and warmth of
the most sincere affection and duty.

"I hope your Majesty believes, that the sharp chastisement I have received
from the best natured and most bountiful master in the world, and whose
kindness alone made my condition these many years supportable, hath enough
mortified me as to this world; and that I have not the presumption or the
madness to imagine or desire ever to be admitted to any employment or
trust again. But I do most humbly beseech your Majesty, by the memory of
your father, who recommended me to you with some testimony, and by your
own gracious reflection upon some one service I may have performed in my
life, that hath been acceptable to you; that you will by your royal power
and interposition put a stop to this severe prosecution against me, and
that my concernment may give no longer interruption to the great affairs
of the Kingdom; but that I may spend the small remainder of my life, which
cannot hold long, in some parts beyond the seas, never to return, where I
will pray for your Majesty, and never suffer the least diminution in the
duty and obedience of,

"May it please your Majesty,

"Your Majesty's most humble and most obedient subject and servant,

"CLARENDON.

"_From my house this 16th of November._"

To our ears these words have something of exaggerated humility; as a fact
they only clothe in the formal language of the day, that overflowing and
sincere loyalty which Clarendon wore on a background of indomitable pride.
That pride was so fundamental, that the high-sounding adulation is made
almost more palpable by the evident restraint which he places upon his
underlying indignation. His love for the King was honestly felt; but it
was the fruit only of long past memories, of the tenderest associations of
his life, of his profound reverence for his first master. He scarcely even
recognized how utter was his contempt for the man himself, as he now was,
with all his vulgar licentiousness, all his superficial good nature, all
his essential selfishness and cynicism. Clarendon himself would have been
surprised had he known how much of that contempt he had unconsciously
revealed, by an occasional phrase, or a half-perceptible stroke of
sarcasm. The effect of the letter was plain enough, and it conveyed a
covert defiance from the fallen Minister, both to his faithless master and
to his triumphant foes. "Withdraw your charges, and I shall free you of my
presence, conscious of my own innocence; but do not expect that I shall
slip away like a scared criminal to avoid the consequences of my guilt, or
that your cowardly hints have power to move me."

Charles was free to accept the letter as a passionate appeal from a loyal
servant to all that there was of self-respect and honour in his breast. If
he so accepted it, he acted as only the boundless selfishness of cynicism
could have suggested. He read the letter, held it over a candle until it
was consumed, and then calmly said that he wondered that the Chancellor
did not withdraw himself. But, indeed, we can scarcely doubt that the King
was astute enough to see that the letter was, in truth, a note of
defiance. If he was to play the craven, Charles was bid to play it in the
light of day. To such a master of shuffling and evasion, the clear-sighted
determination which made Clarendon insist upon a point of form in
demanding an open order to depart, and which compelled his refusal to
allow a triumph to his foes, might well seem incomprehensible. The result
was only that Clarendon was besieged with new suggestions that he should
escape, by a flight which it was more than hinted would be connived at.
Charles's unkingly task was to bring about by hint and stratagem, what he
was not man enough to prescribe by order. He satisfied Clarendon's enemies
by openly proclaiming his anger at the Chancellor's delays; he kept up a
pretence of compunction to Clarendon's friends, and begged them to
persuade him how wise and prudent flight would be.

Herbert Croft, now Bishop of Hereford, was one of the emissaries of the
King. [Footnote: Croft belonged to a Roman Catholic family of some
importance. He had first been educated at St. Omer's, although afterwards
he was admitted to the Anglican Church, and became an object of Laud's
special patronage. This naturally secured to him the favour of Clarendon,
and, as a fact, Clarendon informs us that he had placed Croft under heavy
obligations. But the friendship had not continued. In later years Croft
showed latitudinarian tendencies in his writings, which may have been
apparent in his conversation at an earlier date, and may well have
alienated Clarendon. The fact, however, that Croft belonged to a family of
high rank and large possessions may still more probably have induced him
to feel jealous of the quick rise of the more plebeian Edward Hyde, and
may have bred ill-will between them.] He was no pleasing agent to
Clarendon. He was not churchman only, but also an aristocrat, of great
wealth, whose jealousy of Clarendon's newly acquired rank had made him,
like Seymour, keen to reduce the pride of one whom he deemed an upstart,
and led him to show ingratitude for Clarendon's early patronage. He sought
an interview with the Chancellor, through Clarendon's early and trusted
friend, George Morley, now Bishop of Winchester. He explained his mission
with all the awkwardness of one who had a double part to play. "He had
good authority for what he had to say." But he shunned any mention of the
King's name, until his more candid brother, the Bishop of Winchester,
blurted out, to Croft's annoyance, his previous confession to the Bishop
that he came by the orders of the King. He could not contradict the other,
but could only repeat that he could not be so mad as to interpose without
authority. The Chancellor was meant to infer the truth, but he was to have
no express assurance of it. All Croft could say was "that if Clarendon
would withdraw himself beyond the seas, he would pledge 'his own
salvation,' that no interruption to his journey would be given."

The Chancellor was inconveniently deaf to innuendoes. If he had the
commands of the King, or clear evidence that the King desired it, he would
face even the discredit of retreat. Without such orders or such assurance,
he would consult his own honour, and abide the issue. Clarendon was
determined to play only with the cards upon the table. Croft fell back
upon his former subterfuge, and at length it was agreed that Clarendon
should have a pass under the royal warrant which would ensure him against
misconstruction. So the interview ended.

But he had not sounded the depths of Charles's cowardice. Word came that
the King could not grant the pass; it would incense the Parliament; he
could not face the risk that he asked his aged and discarded servant to
run. Clarendon held to his former resolution. He would not obey even his
sovereign in a trick. His decision may have been stubborn and ill-advised;
it was at least courageous. His friends vainly sought to bend his will.
Ruvigny, the new French ambassador, who had come to deal with Clarendon as
first Minister, in his master's affairs, and had soon discerned his
altered situation, sent word to him of the intrigues he found at Court,
and advised his withdrawal to France, where he would find a ready welcome.
Clarendon remained immovable; and all the bluster of enemies, like
Seymour, who swore that the mob would wreak their vengeance on Clarendon's
adherents, failed to crush hia will. With a pardonable triumph, Clarendon
tells us how he scorned to take a mean advantage which offered itself
against his adversaries. Arlington had made many enemies by his insolence,
and Coventry was deeply involved in charges of malversation in dealing
with the monies of the navy, and in selling offices in the Admiralty.
Clarendon's friends urged him to divert the storm from himself by
betraying the misdeeds of these his foes. The suggestion was made in vain.
"No provocation," he declared, "should dispose him to do anything which
would not become him." These men were Privy Councillors, and of what he
saw amiss in them, he could inform the King. It was no business of his to
protect his own innocence by counter charges. He would leave them to their
fate. He would neither cower before the storm, nor divert it by spreading
scandal against others.

It seemed as if the deadlock between the two Houses, and the tortuous
twistings of the King and the angry faction that had acquired his
confidence, had come to an insoluble entanglement.

The knot was at length loosed by the Duke of York's intervention. James
had now recovered from an attack of small-pox, which had temporarily laid
him aside, and he received the personal commands of the King to "advise
the Chancellor to be gone." The Duke had no alternative but to convey this
message, through the Bishop of Winchester, to Clarendon. The King had
yielded to Clarendon's terms, so far as to send, through his brother, what
was next to a personal order. Hyde, however reluctant, had no alternative
but to obey. On the night of November 29th, he took coach, with two
servants only. A boat was ready for him at Erith, and he there embarked.
He had a stormy passage, which lasted three days and nights, and, sorely
against his will, as he knew the evil construction that would arise from
his resting on French soil, he was compelled to land at Calais.

When the Chancellor left, he deemed it right in the interests of his own
honour, to leave a letter of explanation, which was read to the House of
Lords by the Earl of Denbigh. [Footnote: An early friendship, long
interrupted by estrangement during the Civil War, perhaps accounted for
Clarendon's choice of an intermediary. Basil Feilding, in age a
contemporary of Clarendon, was the son of William Feilding, whose marriage
to the sister of the first Duke of Buckingham had procured him advancement
at Court and high rank in the peerage as Earl of Denbigh. That Earl had
joined the Royalist forces, and died of wounds received in battle in 1643.
His son had, in 1628, been called to the House of Lords as Lord Feilding;
but for some reason, in spite of his antecedents, and the strong
remonstrances of his family, he joined the side of the Parliament, and
became one of their leading commanders. When Commissioner at Uxbridge, in
1645, he renewed his old intercourse with Hyde, who formed a high estimate
of his abilities, and Denbigh explained to Hyde his desire to get rid of
his present allies, and do something for the royal cause. "If any
conjunction fell out," he said, "in which by losing his life he might
preserve the King, he would embrace the occasion, otherwise he would shift
the best he could for himself" (_Hist. of Rebellion_, viii. 246). He
was one of several peers whose pride was wounded, and whose resentment
against Parliament was aroused, by the injury to their own order. He took
no part in the King's trial, and gradually withdrew from the Parliamentary
side. In 1660, he managed to prove himself of sufficient use to the
Royalists, to secure indemnity, and a certain degree of favour. He
retained enough of his former reputation as an ally of Parliament to be
characterized by Ludlow as "a generous man, and a lover of his country."]

It grieved him, he said, that he should be the cause of difference between
the two Houses, and of obstruction to the business of the King. It was his
misfortune to stand accused of two charges, neither of which had any
foundation: that he had enriched himself wrongfully, and that he had been
sole and chief Minister, and was thus responsible for all miscarriages. As
to the first, he could only avow that he had received nothing, except by
the bounty of the King, beyond the lawful perquisites of his office, as
regulated by the traditions of the best holders of that office. For no
courtesies or favours, of which he had been the medium, had he ever
received as much as five pounds. He was now more than £20,000 in debt,
and, when his debts were paid, his estate was not worth two thousand a
year. All that he possessed did not amount to what the King in his bounty
had granted him--the gift of £20,000 when he first came over; £6000 from
the Crown estates in Ireland, and a yearly allowance to supplement the
scanty profits of his office. As Minister, he had only shared power and
responsibility with others; and it was notorious that, after the dismissal
of Secretary Nicholas, his influence had been greatly diminished. The new
appointments to the Privy Council had been, none of them, given to his
intimates, and many of them had gone to his most implacable enemies. As
for the mischief of the war, it had been undertaken against his earnest
advice, and his efforts to negotiate alliances, and to introduce order
into the conduct of the war, had been thwarted by the very men who now
charged him with the results of their own misdeeds. The conduct of foreign
affairs rested, not with him, but with the secretaries: and so far from
having been sole Minister, his advice had, of recent years especially,
been often opposed, solely because it was his. The storm now raised
against him was due only to his having discharged his duty without fear or
favour. He closes with these dignified words--

"This being my present condition, I do most humbly beseech your lordships
to retain a favourable opinion of me, and to believe me to be innocent
from those foul aspersions, until the contrary shall be proved: which I am
sure can never be by any man worthy to be believed. And since the
distemper of the time, and the difference between the two Houses in the
present debate, with the power and malice of my enemies, who give out that
I shall prevail with his Majesty to prorogue or dissolve this Parliament
in displeasure, and threaten to expose me to the rage and fury of the
people, may make me looked upon as the cause which obstructs the King's
service, and the unity and peace of the kingdom; I humbly beseech your
lordships, that I may not forfeit your favour and protection, by
withdrawing myself from so powerful a persecution, in hopes I may be able,
by such withdrawing, hereafter to appear and make my defence, when his
Majesty's justice, to which I shall always submit, may not be obstructed
or controlled by the power and malice of those who have sworn my
destruction."

Not now only, but in the later years of his lonely banishment, Clarendon's
unbending courage saved him from despair, and he continued to hope for
brighter days. [Footnote: In his preface to his commentary on the Psalms,
addressed to his children, in 1670, he still hopes "that I shall yet
outlive this storm."] But he underrated the rancour and the twistings of
his enemies. The very men who had used every device to force him to
retire, and who knew that he was at Calais, now hypocritically urged that
the ports should be stopped, and pretended to be eager for his
apprehension. The Commons urged that he should be committed, in absence,
on the general charge of treason. The Lords declined to accede to their
request, and, in impotent revenge, the Commons resolved that his apology
should be publicly burned by the hangman. In this innocuous resolution the
Lords were persuaded to concur.

From Calais Clarendon addressed the following memorable letter to the
University of Oxford:--

"GOOD MR. VICE-CHANCELLOR,

"Having found it necessary to transport myself out of England, and not
knowing when it will please God that I shall return again, it becomes me
to take care that the University may not be without the service of a
person better able to be of use to them, than I am like to be. And I do
therefore hereby surrender the office of Chancellor into the hands of the
said University, to the end that they may make choice of some other person
better qualified to assist and protect them than I am. I am sure he can
never be more affectionate towards it. I desire you as the last suit I am
like to make to you, to believe that I do not fly my country for guilt,
and how passionately soever I am pursued, that I have not done anything to
make the University ashamed of me, or to repent the good opinion they once
had of me. And though I must have no further mention in your public
devotions, which I have always exceedingly valued, I hope I shall always
be remembered in your private prayers, as, good Mr. Chancellor,

"Yours, etc., "CLARENDON. "Calais, Dec. 17, 1667."

Archbishop Sheldon, his life-long friend, was elected as his successor.

Clarendon stayed on at Calais, at a loss where he should turn. He knew the
suspicions which he might arouse, if he resorted to Paris, and meanwhile
wrote to the Earl of St. Albans, and desired to know whether he might
proceed to Rouen. The Earl of St. Albans acted as the representative of
the Queen Dowager, [Footnote: To whom he was generally believed to be
married.] and from her Clarendon could scarcely expect a cordial welcome.
St. Albans' reply was cold, but Clarendon learned both from him, and from
the Minister Louvois, that he had full permission to proceed to Rouen. At
first he received all courteous attention from the representatives of the
French Court. His only desire was to reach some mild climate before the
rigour of winter, which he was in no condition to sustain, should set in.
With all proper respect and escort, he passed on to Boulogne; from thence
to Montreuil, and next day to Abbeville. On Christmas Eve he reached
Dieppe, within a day's journey of Rouen. The gates of Dieppe were opened
at an unusually early hour next morning, at his request, to allow him to
begin that journey betimes. But, before he reached Rouen, a change had
come in his treatment by the French authorities. As he approached the
halting-place about noon, he was stopped by a gentleman on horseback, who
inquired whether "the Chancellor of England was in the coach," and, on
learning that he was, presented to him a letter from the French King,
desiring him to follow the directions which the bearer would give him.
These were, that his presence in France might occasion a breach between
the Crowns; that he was to make what speed he could to quit the dominions
of the king; and the bearer was to escort him, for his accommodation,
until he saw him out of France.

Clarendon was sorely perplexed by this unexpected message, which was
explained by the negotiations now on foot between the French and English
Crowns. It was with difficulty that he persuaded his appointed escort to
accompany him to Rouen, rather than return to Dieppe, which the escort
would have preferred as the shortest way out of France. The journey to
Rouen was a hard one, and the Chancellor was bruised by repeated
overturnings of the coach. He was in no state to make forced journeys, and
begged time to write to Paris, and ask for less stringent orders. With
difficulty this small concession was obtained. But the reply from the
French Court only brought more peremptory orders to expedite his
departure. His health was now grievously broken. The severity of the
weather, the rapidity of his journeys under the most trying conditions,
above all, the anxieties and perplexities of his position, had brought on
an aggravated attack of the gout, and he was unable either to stand or
walk. Again he pleaded for that delay and consideration which even the
most meagre courtesy and the barest humanity regard as the prerogative of
the sick. He had no wish to linger on the inhospitable soil of France, and
desired only to reach Avignon, so that he might be beyond the King's
boundary; but he begged at least to be allowed to rest at Orleans. The
reply was barbarous in its peremptoriness. "His Majesty was much
displeased that he had not made more haste; if he chose to pass to
Avignon, he might rest one day in ten, which was all his Majesty would
allow."

Meanwhile the virulence of his enemies at home was as relentless as the
barbarity of the French Court. The party which still adhered to him in
both houses was sufficiently large to be formidable to his opponents, who
could only feel themselves secure by his perpetual banishment. On the
pretext that he had fled from justice, a Bill of Banishment was passed
through both Houses, by which he was pronounced incapable of returning to
the country unless he surrendered before February 1st. It might have been
thought that it transcended even the bounds of Charles's shifty cowardice,
to give his assent to a Bill which imposed a punishment on his late
Minister, solely because he had done what the King commanded him to do.
But even to this depth the King descended. It was in vain that the Duke of
York urged that it was the King's own order that betrayed Clarendon into
making that escape from which his own judgment was so averse. Charles
could only plead "that the condescension was necessary for his own good,"
and that he must compound with those who would else press for worse.
Charles shared in that fantastic pride of his family that often betrayed
them to their fall; in him it was united with a depth of abasement to
which only the selfish libertine could descend. What is strangest of all
is, that a man guilty of such meanness should yet have attracted to
himself such wealth of generous loyalty.

When the news arrived that the Bill of Banishment had received the King's
assent, Clarendon resolved to make all haste back to England, before the
appointed day. All thought of Avignon was abandoned, and, at the risk of
his life, he pushed on to Calais. There he arrived on the last day of
January, a broken, and, it might well appear, a dying man. He was carried
helpless to bed, and there lay unable even to read the letters from
England, and incapable of thought and of speech. Even the wretched
emissary of the French Court, Le Fonde, was fain to leave him for a few
days, on what seemed to be his death-bed; but fresh orders compelled him
again to undertake the irksome task of harrying the sick-bed of a dying
man. "He must leave town next day; a few hours would carry him into
Spanish territory."

Clarendon's old heat of temper burst out once more. The conversation was
in Latin, and the Chancellor's sick brain did not at once supply him with
sufficient store of classical phrases to express his wrath. At last he
told the Court emissary "that he must bring orders from God Almighty, as
well as from the King, before he could obey." The struggle still went on:
on the one side, the unlucky envoy of the Court was compelled to pursue
his degrading persecution; on the other hand, Clarendon and his physicians
urged the murderous cruelty of the King's orders. At length, in a last
burst of passion, he told the King's messenger that, though the King was a
great and powerful prince, he was not yet so omnipotent as to make a dying
man strong enough to undertake a journey. The King might send him a
prisoner to England, or carry his dead body into Spanish territory; but he
would not be the author of his own death by undertaking a journey which
was beyond his powers. Le Fonde was left to do his best to reconcile the
ruthless orders of his master with Clarendon's resolute appeal to a power
higher than that of kings.

But of a sudden the scene changed. The negotiations between England and
France had failed, and the French Court no longer found themselves
compelled to sacrifice courtesy, and even humanity, in order to conciliate
a hopeful alliance. They had harassed Clarendon to please the English
Court; they were now to pay him every courtesy in order to show their
carelessness of English interests. The French Government had, perhaps,
found that a common hatred of Clarendon was not an enduring bond amongst
his enemies, and that the new administration of England rested on no very
secure foundation. A letter now reached him from the French Minister,
announcing that nothing was further from his Christian Majesty's wish than
in any way to endanger his health. All France was open to him, and the
King's subjects would have orders to pay him all honour. Le Fonde rejoiced
at this relief from a thankless task. He came now to say that he was to
attend the Chancellor, only to receive his orders.

This happy alteration relieved Clarendon of his worst anxieties. He was no
longer a hunted fugitive, but an honoured guest. The rancour of his
enemies in England, however bitter, had now spent its force, and he could
despise it. His sons still held their places at Court. His household now
attended him, and the savage provisions of the Act of Banishment no longer
prevented the easy passage of correspondence between Clarendon and his
family and friends.

He was still grievously ill, and for six weeks more be was confined to
bed. But as his health recovered he determined still to pass to Avignon,
by way of Rouen, and to take a course of the waters of Bourbon on the way.
He was not prepared to place undue trust in the new-found courtesy of the
French Court.

It was on April 3rd, 1668, that he was strong enough to begin his journey.
We are again reminded of the hardships of travel in the France of the
Grand Monarch, when we read of repeated overturnings of his coach, and of
perils both by land and water that pursued the poor Chancellor, even under
the careful escort of attentive Court messengers. It was not till April
23rd that he left Rouen, and the stay for the next day was at Evreux,
where he had a most untoward experience. It chanced that a company of
English sailors, who appear to have been serving as a mercenary troop of
artillery in the French army, heard of the Chancellor's arrival. The
drunken crowd got out of hand, and vague memories of the naval pay of
which they had been bilked prompted them to take vengeance for old arrears
upon the luckless Chancellor, whom they deemed responsible for all the
misdeeds of the Admiralty. Old echoes of "Dunkirk House," and the ill-
gotten gains of Ministers who fattened on the plunder of poor men, were
doubtless ringing in their muddled heads.

It would be absurd to attribute any political meaning to the incident, or
to suppose that it had any connivance from the French Government. The inn
where Clarendon alighted was attacked by the riotous mob. The local
magistrates were incapable of dealing with the riot, and were perplexed as
to the limits of their jurisdiction. Clarendon's attendants made what
defence they could, and Le Fonde, his former persecutor, and now his
courteous escort, received a dangerous wound in his defence. It was like
to go hard with the Chancellor himself. At the beginning of the fray, he
was struck a violent blow on the head with the flat of a broadsword. The
rioters used him with great violence, rifled his pockets and his baggage,
and dragged him into the courtyard to dispatch him with their swords. Not
a moment too soon, the commanding officer of the English sailors, with
some magistrates and a guard, broke into the inn, and rescued Clarendon,
when he seemed at the point of death. It looked as if his troubles were
not over; the magistrates were ready to fight upon the question of their
own jurisdiction, and would allow no one else to show that vigour of
resistance to the rioters of which they were themselves incapable. It was
only on Le Fonde's vigorous remonstrance, and his threats of the royal
vengeance on their remissness, that proper steps were taken for the safety
of the company. The Chancellor and his attendants obtained lodgings in the
neighbouring castle of the Duc de Bouillon. Having escaped from the perils
of the mob, Clarendon had to resist the equally dangerous designs of the
French physicians, who wished to perform the operation of trepanning. With
what haste he might, he pressed on to Bourbon, and, after some stay there,
he reached Avignon in June, Such satisfaction as he could find, in the
exemplary punishment of the rioters and in the gracious apologies of the
King, was readily accorded by his hosts of France.

At Avignon he reached a haven of refuge, where he might rest from the
troubled experiences of the year that was past. It had, indeed, been one
of trial sufficient to test the staunchest courage. Within little more
than twelve months, he had lost his oldest and most trusted colleague,
Lord Southampton. His home had been made desolate by the death of his
wife. He had seen the growing boldness of his enemies, had detected their
ruthlessness in falsehood and in knavery, and had found that his loyalty
to the Crown was to go for nothing, and that his trust in the honour of
the King was based on no sound foundation. Against his own judgment, he
had resigned the seal, in order that the King's business might prosper,
and that the bitterness of his enemies might be assuaged. When he had been
persuaded to resign, he had found that his resignation was to be a new
ground of triumph for his enemies, and that it was a foothold for a new
attack. By the threat of prosecution they strove to drive him to fly, and
when he refused to yield to their threats, they contrived to make the King
the agent in their knavish schemes, and procured from him the peremptory
message which made Clarendon quit the field. No sooner was he gone, than
the very flight which they had contrived was made the ground of new
accusations, and he was sentenced to perpetual banishment for avoiding a
trial for which no summons had been issued, no indictment laid, no
commitment made. Stricken down by illness, he could not meet their
challenge by the date enjoined, and the beginning of February found him a
proscribed exile, a persecuted fugitive, hounded from post to post, a
stricken invalid, longing for the release of death. A few weeks brought
some relief at least to the stout spirit that had borne so much. His
enemies at home had sped their last bolt, and were fast becoming absorbed
in their own sordid quarrels. The French King had abandoned the barbarity
of which his own servants were ashamed, and addressed the honoured exile
in terms of gracious and almost fulsome courtesy. That exile reached the
haven of Avignon, to be received there not only without any of the
annoyance of suspicious espionage, but with all the courtesies that could
be paid to an honoured guest. The Vice-Legate and the Archbishop vied with
one another in the formal stateliness of their reception. The consuls and
the magistrates attended him with all ceremony, and paid him their service
in a Latin oration. The Court of St. James's might reject him, but the
high functionaries of European diplomacy accorded to him all that tribute
of respect which was due to the man who had shaped the policy of the
restored English monarchy, and had raised the standard of English
statesmanship. Clarendon was not too proud to feel his sense of self-
complacency flattered by such homage, and we like him none the less
because he allows his satisfaction to appear.

Thus closes the political career which we have endeavoured to trace from
its first beginnings, through the period of long and arduous struggle,
amidst the clouds of exile and poverty, and once more in the full sun of a
triumphant restoration, largely contrived by his wisdom, and dominated by
his guiding hand. We have seen the disappointments that marred that
triumph, and the ignoble stain that smirched the ideal of a restored
monarchy which he had formed. We have seen how, one by one, his cherished
aims had been defeated, and how a King, the slave of selfish libertinism,
and a Court, the scene of gross debauchery and undisguised corruption, had
tempted him to despair of England. We have seen how high he bore himself
amidst the degraded crew, and how boldly he attacked the scandals of the
Court, and rebuked the craven self-indulgence of the King. We have marked
how the various factions that felt uneasy under his sway, gradually
coalesced into a rancorous opposition, that knew no bounds in the meanness
of their intrigues, and in the barefaced falsehood of their accusations.
We have seen how the King stooped to be their instrument, and allowed
himself to be the tool of their deceptions. Clarendon became an exile,
and, after a brief period of inhuman persecution from a false view of
diplomatic expediency, he received the homage of European Powers, as an
honoured guest. In honouring him, they showed what they thought of England
under the Cabal. Of what England lost in Clarendon, we can allow the
sordid history that followed his fall to afford a sufficiently sure and
graphic indication.

It is no part of Clarendon's biography to linger over the revolting
details of that disgraceful time. Even in Clarendon's day, the King had
lamentably failed to maintain his dignity or to discharge his task. His
life now outraged all decency, and his Court fell below the standard of
the common bagnio. His prime favourite and his chief Minister was
Buckingham, stained by every crime, at once coward and bully, haughty in
his arrogant insolence, and yet stooping to intrigues that would have
disgraced the veriest rogue from the hulks. In the course of what seems to
have been rather a riotous brawl, than an honourable duel--a brawl in
which seconds as well as principals took part, and in which more than one
life was lost--the King's First Minister killed Lord Shrewsbury, the
husband of his paramour. The town was filled with the scandal, but by the
personal influence of the King, it was withdrawn from the courts of law.
Buckhurst and Sedley, the chosen associates of the King in his notorious
bouts of drunken debauchery, roused disgust by a freak of sickening
lewdness; the only result was the committal to prison, by the order of the
Lord Chief Justice, and at the behest of the King, of the constable who
interfered with the indecent escapade. We have a proof of the change that
had come since Clarendon's controlling hand had gone, when we remember
that some three years before, the same Buckhurst, for a similar outbreak
of indecency, was rated in terms of scornful rebuke by the King's Bench
Judges, and was bound over to good behaviour by a bond of £5000. The
King's harem was augmented by a flower-girl, who had attracted attention
on the stage, and was the discarded mistress of two of the King's
associates. Clarendon lamented what he had seen, as a sad lapse from
dignity, a grievous fall from the ideals that he had hoped for. What
followed was nothing but a carnival of mad obscenity. Samuel Pepys was no
squeamish critic; but even he was moved to some earnestness of indignation
at the foul orgies in which Charles and his new associates indulged, in
shameless publicity. As was natural, such advisers were no careful
guardians of Parliamentary or popular liberty. What attention could be
spared from debauchery was given to degrading compacts by which the King
was to be the submissive pensioner of Louis; to plans for thwarting the
prerogative of Parliament; to secret intrigues for subverting the
Protestant religion. If the cost to England of his fall was to be measured
by the depth of dishonour, and the flagrantly treasonable plots, of those
who followed him, Clarendon was triumphantly vindicated, and his wrongs
were amply avenged.

In spite of the cordiality of his reception, Clarendon did not find
Avignon a desirable residence in the heat of summer. The streets had an
ill savour "by the multitude of dyers and of silk manufactures, and the
worse smell of the Jews," and he presently moved on to Montpelier, where
he made a lengthened stay. His reception was as courteous as before, and
this he ascribed to the good offices of Lord and Lady Mordaunt, old
friends whom he recommends to the good offices of his children. "When any
English came thither," he tells us, "none forbore to pay respect to the
Chancellor"; and, with a certain pride, he records how Sir Richard
Temple's refusal to visit Clarendon caused "a general aversion towards
him," so that he was compelled to quit the town, where "he left behind him
the reputation of a very vain, humorous, and sordid person." The good
Chancellor was not above the human capacity of a very cordial hatred, or
the inclination to feel piqued at a failure of kindly courtesy.

He was now at ease, and in peace of mind. His health, although undermined
by long and painful illness, was sufficiently restored to enable him to
indulge his old habits of intellectual activity. "It pleased God in a
short time, after some recollections, and upon his entire confidence in
Him, to restore him to that serenity of mind, and resignation of himself
to the disposal and good pleasure of God, that they who conversed most
with him could not discover the least murmur of impatience in him, or any
unevenness in his conversations." Clarendon is none the less lovable,
because a good conscience preserved for him his old self-complacency. His
studies were again renewed. He made himself master of the French language
so far as the reading of its literature was concerned. The power of
speaking the language he, like many another, found "many inconveniences
in." He made a competent progress also in Italian.

But his chief work was the preparation of his defences against the
seventeen clauses of the charges formulated against him in the Commons.
These were so extravagant that his accusers never sought to make them the
foundation of an indictment, and he had little difficulty in showing their
baselessness, and how much they contradicted the clearest features of his
policy, and the most notorious evidence as to his acts. The Vindication
carefully avoided anything that reflected on the King, and he left it to
his children, to whom it was conveyed by Lord and Lady Mordaunt, to choose
their own time for making it public. He was careful not to prejudice that
position at Court which they still owed to Charles's sense of justice.

His serenity was disturbed only by two lingering apprehensions. The first
was the insufficiency of his means to maintain the establishment which his
crippled health rendered necessary. For that he could only trust the
affection and piety of his children, who, he doubted not, would do their
best to transmit to him, from their estates or his own, enough to secure
the decencies of life in a foreign land. The other more serious
apprehension was the fear that the machination of his enemies might still
have power to prejudice the French Court against him. He saw enough to
know that that Court still viewed his presence on French soil with some
nervousness. He could only soothe his anxieties by his trust in
Providence, and by the company of his books. "God blessed him very much in
this composure and retreat."

He did not spare himself in his reflections on what had been amiss in his
own conduct. "There was nothing of which he was so ashamed, as he was of
the vast expense he had made in the building of his house." He could only
excuse, but not justify it. This is an old topic of accusation, to which
we have already alluded, but we may revert to it once again. Since the
Restoration, Clarendon had commanded little leisure to find a suitable
house, and had moved frequently from one to another. At first he had
resided at Dorset House, in Fleet Street, once occupied by Bacon, and
formerly the town house of the Bishop of Salisbury. From there he went to
Worcester House, [Footnote: The residence of the Marquis of Worcester
(previously Lord Glamorgan), and used by Cromwell during the Commonwealth]
for which he paid the large rent of £500 a year. After the Fire, he moved
to Berkshire House, in St. James (on the site of the present Bridgewater
House), which became known as Cleveland House when adopted as the
residence of Lady Castlemaine, then Duchess of Cleveland, in 1668. York
House, Twickenham, was assigned to him after the marriage of his daughter
to the Duke of York, and there the Princess, afterwards Queen Anne, was
born. It was only after many changes that he ventured, in the full tide of
his prosperity, and with the encouragement of the King, to provide a house
of his own; but his ignorance of architecture--and probably also his
absorption in weightier affairs--made him the victim of the architect,
[Footnote: The architect was Pratt. The house was built during Clarendon's
absence from London in the Plague year, when Parliament sat at Oxford.]
who estimated the cost at less than one-third of what it came to, which
was £50,000. He found himself not only involved in debt, but the mark of
envious scandal for the pride and ostentation of his dwelling. Yet when
its sale was proposed to him "he remained so infatuated with the delight
he had enjoyed, that, though he was deprived of it, he hearkened very
unwillingly to the advice." A lingering hope remained that he might still
live there, in all the pride of a restored good name. A weakness so
confessed may readily be forgiven. The harm it did was only to his own
estate. [Footnote: Evelyn, as we have seen (_ante_, p. 254) had
praised the house more guardedly than Pepys, but in a letter to Lord
Cornbury (Jan. 20, 1665/6) he speaks of it with perhaps courteous excess
of admiration. "Let me speak ingenuously," he says: "I went with
prejudice, and a critical spirit, incident to those who fancy they know
anything in art. I acknowledge to your Lordship that I have never seen a
nobler pile.... It is, without hyperbolies, the best contrived, the most
useful, graceful, and magnificent house in England." He enters into the
details of the building, and concludes thus: "May that great and
illustrious person, whose large and ample heart has honoured his country
with so glorious a structure, and by an example worthy of himself, showed
our nobility how they ought indeed to build, and value their qualities,
live many long years to enjoy it; and when he shall be passed to that
upper building, not made with hands, may his posterity (as you, my lord)
inherit his goodness, this palace, and all other circumstances of his
grandeur, to consummate their felicity."

Evelyn may best be allowed to tell of the passing of Clarendon's
architectural glory. It is in the _Diary_ for September 18, 1683.

"After dinner I walked to survey the sad demolition of Clarendon House,
that costly and only sumptuous palace of the late Lord Chancellor Hyde,
where I have often been so cheerful with him, and sometimes so sad;
happening to make him a visit but the day before he fled from the angry
Parliament, accusing him of maladministration, and being envious at his
grandeur, who, from a private lawyer, came to be father-in-law to the Duke
of York, and, as some would suggest, designing his Majesty's marriage with
the Infanta of Portugal, not apt to breed; to this they imputed much of
our unhappiness, and that he being sole Minister and favourite at his
Majesty's restoration, neglected to gratify the King's suffering party,
preferring those who were the cause of our troubles. But perhaps as many
of those things were injuriously laid to his charge, so he kept the
Government far steadier than it has since proved. I could name some who, I
think, contributed greatly to his ruin, the buffoons and the _misses_, to
whom he was an eye-sore. 'Tis true he was of a jolly temper after the old
English fashion; but France had now the ascendant, and we were become
quite another nation. The Chancellor gone, and dying in exile, the Earl
his successor sold that which cost £50,000 building to the young Duke of
Albemarle for £25,000, to pay debts which how contracted remains yet a
mystery, his son being no way a prodigal.... However it were, this stately
palace is decreed to ruin, to support the prodigious waste the Duke of
Albemarle had made of his estate since the old man died. He sold it to the
highest bidder, and it fell to certain rich bankers and mechanics, who
gave for it and the ground about it £35,000; they design a new town as it
were, and a most magnificent piazza.... See the vicissitudes of earthly
things!"

In June of the following year Evelyn found streets and buildings--Bond
Street and Albemarle Street--encroaching on the beauty of the site. The
fall of Clarendon House had tempted Lady Berkeley to turn her gardens into
squares, and she actually realized the then amazing amount of £1000 a year
"in mere ground rents"! "To such a mad intemperance has this age come of
building about a city by far too disproportionate already to the nation."
If Evelyn's ghost still haunts the scene, what are its reflections now?]

At the date of his banishment, Clarendon was not an old man, as age is
generally reckoned. He had not yet reached the age of sixty years, which
finds many men in possession of their full powers. But ill health,
anxiety, long years of hardship and incessant labour, had combined to make
him prematurely old. For a time, indeed, it seemed as if he could only
survive his fall by a few weeks or months, and as if his work were to
finish when he left his country for the last time. But his indomitable
energy, and the brave spirit that sustained him, brought back first a
tolerable measure of good health; then serenity of mind; and, lastly, that
industry which opened to him, in the reading and in the making of books, a
new world from which all the sordid pettiness, and the infinite
annoyances, of the political arena were banished. There is but little more
to tell of that strenuous life, which had seen so much of storm and
tempest, varied by gleams of sunshine, and, above all, illuminated by an
imagination so rich, and by an historic sense so gorgeous and so inspiring
to a man whose life was spent in making history. From what his pen has
left us, from that incomparable history where the scenes in which he had
played so great a part, and the actors amongst whom he had moved, are
portrayed with such dramatic force, we can easily picture to ourselves how
vivid were Clarendon's memories, and how richly the days of his retirement
were peopled with the thoughts of what had been. The respect paid to him,
the homage accorded to his great achievements and his great name, were not
merely soothing to his personal vanity--they served to bring him closer to
those historic scenes in which he had moved. He had still the invaluable
treasures of industry and hope. He could still add to that which he would
leave to his world; he could still hope that he might see his country, and
be honoured as of old by his countrymen. We must accept Clarendon as
nature made him. For him life was a large stage, on which he must act his
part with dignity. Like Ulysses, he "was a part of all that he had known";
he could not rest from effort; if he could not act great deeds, he could
still wield his pen in stately eloquence.

It was, he tells, the third of the retreats from a life of trouble and
vexation, which Heaven had granted him, and which he reckoned amongst his
choicest blessings. After the storms of the Civil War, he had one such
retreat at Jersey, when the Prince had, much against his advice, left for
France. In that first retreat he had gained much. He learned to know
himself better, and other men more truly. His youth had been engaged in
company and conversation, and in the full tide of early success at the
bar, followed by absorption in the turmoil of politics, he had moved on
the quick current, and had not had leisure for contemplation, or for
studying the ways of men. His early life had been one "of ease and
pleasure and too much idleness"; it was only the instinct of association
with men whom he could respect, that preserved him from "any notable
scandal," and made him live, as he naively tells us, at least
"_caute_, if not _caste_." Too much idleness he had exchanged for
too much business. The retreat at Jersey had come just when it was well
"to compose those affections and allay those passions, which, in the
warmth of perpetual actions, and chafed by continual contradictions, had
need of rest, and cool and deliberate cogitations." He learned "how blind
a surveyor he had been of the inclinations and affections of the heart of
man," and how warily he must walk who would avoid the pitfalls of human
intercourse.

The next retreat came during the two years of his Embassy in Spain. It
gave him a respite from the petty, but none the less rancorous, bickerings
of the exiled Court. It offered him a new period of intercourse with his
books. It opened a new world to him in the intricacies of European
diplomacy. Above all, it allowed him once again to renew that spirit of
fervent religious devotion, which always served as the background of his
busy life.

Now, in this the third of his retreats, spent and wearied, and, as it
might seem, baffled, he could find consolation in the opportunity of once
more adding to his intellectual stores, enriching his bequest to the
world, and amplifying the proud record which should serve as his
vindication to posterity. In his "Devotions on the Psalms," in his replies
to Cressy and to Hobbes, in a crowd of miscellaneous essays on those
general ethical topics which were suited to the taste of that day, and
have proved singularly ill-adapted to the taste of our own; above all, in
the completion of his great _History of the Rebellion_, with which he
incorporated his autobiography, Clarendon found abundant employment for
his crowded leisure.

He remained at Montpelier until June, 1671, and thereafter resided at
Moulins, until the spring of 1674. He had the comfort of abundant friends,
of frequent correspondence, and of occasional visits from his sons, Lord
Cornbury, and Lawrence Hyde. [Footnote: Lawrence Hyde is always referred
to as "Lory" in his father's correspondence. He became Earl of Rochester.]
The management of his property, so far as he could carry it out in exile,
was a source of some annoyance, but doubtless also helped to keep alive
his hope of a return to his country and his home. We have no details of
his life in exile. We only know enough to show that it was one of no
listless indolence, no craven depression, and no vain repining. Clarendon
died, as he had lived, with energy unconquered, with hope unabated, still
clinging to all that made human life more noble in action, more stately in
its ordering, more lofty in its ideals. Alike by temperament, by training,
by all that had roused his enthusiastic devotion, and attracted his
passionate loyalty, and by the moulding of a long experience of struggle
and of suffering, he was apt to frame these ideals on the historic records
of the past. It was not his to strike out daring enterprises or to
initiate sweeping reforms. He built upon the associations that had been
handed down to him. But the memory of his achievements, marred and blurred
as these were by sordid surroundings, ignoble intrigues, and the
disappointments that tried his loyalty, was none the less precious; nor
was the inheritance of his literary accomplishment the less valuable. Can
England point to one who at once filled a larger part in her history, and
left a more enduring monument in the annals of her literature?

Vexations still came to him in these closing years of exile. He had the
bitter mortification of learning, on evidence which he strove to think was
not fully proved, that his daughter had betrayed the traditions of his
house and of his teaching, and had been persuaded to accept those
doctrines of the Roman Catholic Church, which he held to be false to the
truth, and dangerous to the welfare of his country. In dignified words, he
strove to turn her from that error with all the weight of a father's
authority, which her exalted position as the wife of the Heir Presumptive
did not, in his view, weaken or control; but he heard of her death on
March 3lst, 1671, in the thirty-fourth year of her age, as the avowed
adherent of a Church of which he had all his life been a convinced
opponent. In June, 1671, through his son Lawrence, then returning from a
visit to Moulins, he addressed a letter to the King, beseeching him, in
memory of all his tried service and his devoted loyalty, to allow that he
should return to die in his own country. In August, 1674, he again
addressed the King, the Queen, and the Duke of York, in words of still
more earnest entreaty.

"Seven years," he wrote to the Queen, in asking her aid, "was a time
prescribed and limited by God Himself for the expiration of some of his
greatest judgments, and it is full that time since I have with all
possible humility, sustained the insupportable weight of the King's
displeasure, so that I cannot be blamed if I employ the short breath that
is remaining in me, in all manner of supplication, which may contribute to
the lessening this burthen that is so heavy upon me. I do not presume to
hope ever to be admitted to your Majesty's presence. Though I have all
imaginable duty, I have no ambition, and only pray for leave to die in my
own country amongst my own children, which I hope his Majesty will at some
time vouchsafe to grant."

"It is now full seven years," he wrote to the King, "since I have been
deprived of your Majesty's favour, with some circumstances of
mortification which have never been exercised towards any other man, and
therefore I may hope from your good nature and justice, that a severity
which you have never practised upon any other man for half the time, may
be diminished in some degree towards me."

He prays "that you will at least signify your consent that I may return to
beg my bread in England, and to die amongst my own children." In terms as
strong and moving he besought the mediation of the Duke of York. But these
appeals, which might have touched the heart of the sternest tyrant, fell
dead upon the selfish cynicism of Charles, deaf at once to the calls of
honour, and to the gratitude due to unswerving loyalty. They met with no
response.

In the spring of 1674, Clarendon moved to Rouen, indulging the hope of a
return to his country and his home, and eager to be nearer to answer any
summons sent by a relenting sovereign. But no such summons came, and the
weary exile was now at the end of his brave and strenuous labour. On
December 9th, 1674, he breathed his last. His son, Lord Cornbury, was
present at his deathbed, having been summoned when the end was near. The
French Court had granted him the privilege of making testamentary
provisions, which otherwise would not have been possible to him as a
foreigner on French soil. His will was dated on December 11th (French
style [Footnote: December 1st, according to the English calendar.]), but
it related only to his writings and papers, with which his heirs were to
deal subject to the advice of his old friends, Sheldon, Archbishop of
Canterbury, and Morley, Bishop of Winchester. He had probably disposed of
his other property by earlier gifts. His body was brought to England, and
was buried in the Henry VII. Chapel at Westminster. No monument marks the
spot where the great Minister rests amongst the monarchs whose throne he
served so well. [Footnote: The name was inscribed on the site of the
family vault, under Dean Stanley, in 1867. Clarendon's mother had been
buried there in 1661; and afterwards his third son, in 1664. It is at the
foot of the steps to Henry VII.'s Chapel.] We have endeavoured, from the
varied episodes of his life of strange vicissitude, and from the records
of his strenuous action, of his undaunted courage, and of his well-tried
loyalty, to draw the portrait of Lord Clarendon, to describe his character
as we conceive it, and to vindicate his place in history. We have not
sought to conceal his foibles, nor to palliate what may appear to some to
be his prejudices. We are concerned mainly to claim for him, as the first
of a long line of Conservative statesmen, a high ideal of statecraft, a
lofty patriotism, and a clear-sighted honesty of purpose. We admit,
without considering it necessary to apologize for, that impetuous temper,
which does not make us love him less, and those traits of self-complacency
which were a part of his fearless candour, and in no wise detract from the
dignity of his nature. We have tried to portray the secret of his
influence, his genius for friendship, and the wide range of his outlook
upon the drama of history. We have abundant evidence of the impression of
his personality upon life-long friends, and even upon doubtful critics.

"He spoke well," says Burnet: "his style had no flaw in it, but had a just
mixture of wit and sense, only he spoke too copiously; he had a great
pleasantness in his spirit, which carried him sometimes too far into
raillery, in which he sometimes showed more wit than discretion."

That is the verdict of an acute, but at best a lukewarm, judge. Elsewhere
Burnet writes:

"Upon the whole matter, he was a true Englishman, and a sincere
Protestant, and what has passed at Court since his disgrace has
sufficiently vindicated him from all ill designs."

"Sir Edward Hyde," writes Sir Philip Warwick, "was of a cheerful and
agreeable conversation, of an extraordinary industry and activity, and of
a great confidence, which made him soon at home at a Court... He had a
felicity both of tongue and pen, which made him willingly hearkened unto
and much approved." [Footnote: _Memoirs_, p. 196.] "I am mad in love
with my Lord Chancellor," says Pepys, "for he do comprehend and speak out
well, and with the greatest ease and authority that ever I saw man in my
life. I did never observe how much easier a man do speak when he knows all
the company to be below him, than in him."

The gossipping diarist was no inapt observer of the ways of men, and had
no small experience. Evelyn was a more attached and grateful admirer. To
him, the great Chancellor was "of a jolly temper, of the old English
fashion." Yet Evelyn had known Clarendon when his courage was most tried,
when his hopes were baffled, and when the sordid crowd of courtiers and
profligates had baited him almost to the death. It is little touches like
these that fill in the picture of the man.

Of his literary achievement this is not the place to speak. It has a
secure and proud niche in the annals of our literature. We have tried to
present him as the Statesman and the Man of Action, and as the tried, the
faithful, and the ungrudging, friend.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Life of Edward Earl of Clarendon V2
by Henry Craik





Produced by Charles Aldarondo, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team





[Illustration: "I MUST GO, NOW, I--MUST--GO!"]

DAWN

BY

ELEANOR H. PORTER

With Illustrations by Lucius Wolcott Hitchcock

BOSTON AND NEW YORK

1919




To My Friend

MRS. JAMES D. PARKER




CONTENTS

I.      THE GREAT TERROR

II.     DAD

III.    FOR JERRY AND NED

IV.     SCHOOL

V.      WAITING

VI.     LIGHTS OUT

VII.    SUSAN TO THE RESCUE

VIII.   AUNT NETTIE MEETS HER MATCH

IX.     SUSAN SPEAKS HER MIND

X.      AND NETTIE COLEBROOK SPEAKS HERS

XI.     NOT PATS BUT SCRATCHES

XII.    CALLERS FOR "KEITHIE"

XIII.   FREE VERSE--A LA SUSAN

XIV.    A SURPRISE ALL AROUND

XV.     AGAIN SUSAN TAKES A HAND

XVI.    THE WORRY OF IT

XVII.   DANIEL BURTON TAKES THE PLUNGE

XVIII.  "MISS STEWART"

XIX.    A MATTER OF LETTERS

XX.     WITH CHIN UP

XXI.    THE LION

XXII.   HOW COULD YOU, MAZIE?

XXIII.  JOHN MCGUIRE

XXIV.   AS SUSAN SAW IT

XXV.    KEITH TO THE RESCUE

XXVI.   MAZIE AGAIN

XXVII.  FOR THE SAKE OF JOHN

XXVIII. THE WAY

XXIX.   DOROTHY TRIES HER HAND

XXX.    DANIEL BURTON'S "JOB"

XXXI.   WHAT SUSAN DID NOT SEE

XXXII.  THE KEY

XXXIII. AND ALL ON ACCOUNT OF SUSAN




ILLUSTRATIONS

"I must go, now. I--must--go!"

Susan Betts talking with Mrs. McGuire over the back-yard fence

"Want you? I always want you!"

"You've helped more--than you'll ever know"

He gave her almost no chance to say anything herself

Keith's arm shot out and his hand fell, covering hers

It was well that the Japanese screen on the front piazza was down




CHAPTER I

THE GREAT TERROR


It was on his fourteenth birthday that Keith Burton discovered the
Great Terror, though he did not know it by that name until some days
afterward. He knew only, to his surprise and distress, that the
"Treasure Island," given to him by his father for a birthday present,
was printed in type so blurred and poor that he could scarcely read
it.

He said nothing, of course. In fact he shut the book very hastily,
with a quick, sidewise look, lest his father should see and notice the
imperfection of his gift.

Poor father! He would feel so bad after he had taken all that pains
and spent all that money--and for something not absolutely necessary,
too! And then to get cheated like that. For, of course, he had been
cheated--such horrid print that nobody could read.

But it was only a day or two later that Keith found some more horrid
print. This time it was in his father's weekly journal that came every
Saturday morning. He found it again that night in a magazine, and yet
again the next day in the Sunday newspaper.

Then, before he had evolved a satisfactory explanation in his own mind
of this phenomenon, he heard Susan Betts talking with Mrs. McGuire
over the back-yard fence.

Susan Betts began the conversation. But that was nothing strange:
Susan Betts always began the conversation.

"Have you heard about poor old Harrington?" she demanded in what Keith
called her "excitingest" voice. Then, as was always the case when she
spoke in that voice, she plunged on without waiting for a reply, as if
fearful lest her bit of news fall from the other pair of lips first.
"Well, he's blind--stone blind. He couldn't see a dollar bill--not if
you shook it right before his eyes."

"Sho! you don't say!" Mrs. McGuire dropped the wet sheet back into the
basket and came to the fence on her side concernedly. "Now, ain't that
too bad?"

"Yes, ain't it? An' he so kind, an' now so blind! It jest makes me
sick." Susan whipped open the twisted folds of a wet towel. Susan
seldom stopped her work to talk. "But I saw it comin' long ago. An' he
did, too, poor man!"

Mrs. McGuire lifted a bony hand to her face and tucked a flying wisp
of hair behind her right ear.

"Then if he saw it comin', why couldn't he do somethin' to stop it?"
she demanded.

[Illustration: SUSAN BETTS TALKING WITH MRS. MCGUIRE OVER THE BACKYARD
FENCE]

"I don't know. But he couldn't. Dr. Chandler said he couldn't. An'
they had a man up from Boston--one of them eye socialists what doesn't
doctor anythin' but eyes--an' he said he couldn't."

Keith, on his knees before the beet-bed adjoining the clothes-yard,
sat back on his heels and eyed the two women with frowning interest.

He knew old Mr. Harrington. So did all the boys. Never was there a
kite or a gun or a jack-knife so far gone that Uncle Joe Harrington
could not "fix it" somehow. And he was always so jolly about it, and
so glad to do it. But it took eyes to do such things, and if now he
was going to be blind--

"An' you say it's been comin' on gradual?" questioned Mrs. McGuire.
"Why, I hadn't heard-"

"No, there hain't no one heard," interrupted Susan. "He didn't say
nothin' ter nobody, hardly, only me, I guess, an' I suspicioned it, or
he wouldn't 'a' said it to me, probably. Ye see, I found out he wa'n't
readin' 'em--the papers Mr. Burton has me take up ter him every week.
An' he owned up, when I took him ter task for it, that he couldn't
read 'em. They was gettin' all blurred."

"Blurred?" It was a startled little cry from the boy down by the beet-
bed; but neither Susan nor Mrs. McGuire heard--perhaps because at
almost the same moment Mrs. McGuire had excitedly asked the same
question.

"Blurred?" she cried.

"Yes; all run tergether like--the printin', ye know----so he couldn't
tell one letter from t'other. 'T wa'n't only a little at first. Why,
he thought 't was jest somethin' the matter with the printin' itself;
an'--"

"And WASN'T it the printing at ALL?"

The boy was on his feet now. His face was a little white and strained-
looking, as he asked the question.

"Why, no, dearie. Didn't you hear Susan tell Mis' McGuire jest now? 'T
was his EYES, an' he didn't know it. He was gettin' blind, an' that
was jest the beginnin'."

Susan's capable hands picked up another wet towel and snapped it open
by way of emphasis.

"The b-beginning?" stammered the boy. "But--but ALL beginnings don't--
don't end like that, do they?"

Susan Betts laughed indulgently and jammed the clothespin a little
deeper on to the towel.

"Bless the child! Won't ye hear that, now?" she laughed with a shrug.
"An' how should I know? I guess if Susan Betts could tell the end of
all the beginnin's as soon as they're begun, she wouldn't be hangin'
out your daddy's washin', my boy. She'd be sittin' on a red velvet
sofa with a gold cupola over her head a-chargin' five dollars apiece
for tellin' yer fortune. Yes, sir, she would!"

"But--but about Uncle Joe," persisted the boy. "Can't he really see--
at all, Susan?"

"There, there, child, don't think anything more about it. Indeed,
forsooth, I'm tellin' the truth, but I s'pose I hadn't oughter told it
before you. Still, you'd 'a' found it out quick enough--an' you with
your tops an' balls always runnin' up there. An' that's what the poor
soul seemed to feel the worst about," she went on, addressing Mrs.
McGuire, who was still leaning on the division fence.

"'If only I could see enough ter help the boys!' he moaned over an'
over again. It made me feel awful bad. I was that upset I jest
couldn't sleep that night, an' I had ter get up an' write. But it made
a real pretty poem. My fuse always works better in the night, anyhow.
'The wail of the toys'--that's what I called it--had the toys tell the
story, ye know, all the kites an' jack-knives an' balls an' bats that
he's fixed for the boys all these years, an' how bad they felt because
he couldn't do it any more. Like this, ye know:

     'Oh, woe is me, said the baseball bat,
      Oh, woe is me, said the kite.'

'T was real pretty, if I do say it, an' touchy, too."

"For mercy's sake, Susan Betts, if you ain't the greatest!" ejaculated
Mrs. McGuire, with disapproving admiration. "If you was dyin' I
believe you'd stop to write a poem for yer gravestone!"

Susan Betts chuckled wickedly, but her voice was gravity itself.

"Oh, I wouldn't have ter do that, Mis' McGuire. I've got that done
already."

"Susan Betts, you haven't!" gasped the scandalized woman on the other
side of the fence.

"Haven't I? Listen," challenged Susan Betts, striking an attitude. Her
face was abnormally grave, though her eyes were merry.

     "Here lieth a woman whose name was Betts,
      An' I s'pose she'll deserve whatever she gets;
      But if she hadn't been Betts she might 'a' been Better,
      She might even been Best if her name would 'a' let her."

"Susan!" gasped Mrs. McGuire once more; but Susan only chuckled again
wickedly, and fell to work on her basket of clothes in good earnest.

A moment later she was holding up with stern disapproval two socks
with gaping heels.

"Keith Burton, here's them scandalous socks again! Now, do you go tell
your father that I won't touch 'em. I won't mend 'em another once. He
must get you a new pair--two new pairs, right away. Do you hear?"

But Keith did not hear. Keith was not there to hear. Still with that
strained, white look on his face he had hurried out of the yard and
through the gate.

Mrs. McGuire, however, did hear.

"My stars, Susan Betts, it's lucky your bark is worse than your bite!"
she exclaimed. "Mend 'em, indeed! They won't be dry before you've got
your darnin' egg in 'em."

Susan laughed ruefully. Then she sighed:--at arms' length she was
holding up another pair of yawning socks.

"I know it. And look at them, too," she snapped, in growing wrath.
"But what's a body goin' to do? The boy'd go half-naked before his
father would sense it, with his nose in that paint-box. Much as ever
as he's got sense enough ter put on his own clothes--and he WOULDN'T
know WHEN ter put on CLEAN ones, if I didn't spread 'em out for him!"

"I know it. Too bad, too bad," murmured Mrs. McGuire, with a virtuous
shake of her head. "An' he with his fine bringin'-up, an' now to be so
shiftless an' good-for-nothin', an'--"

But Susan Betts was interrupting, her eyes flashing.

"If you please, I'll thank you to say no more like that about my
master," she said with dignity. "He's neither shiftless, nor good-for-
nothin'. His character is unbleachable! He's an artist an' a scholar
an' a gentleman, an' a very superlative man. It's because he knows so
much that--that he jest hain't got room for common things like clothes
an' holes in socks."

"Stuff an' nonsense!" retorted Mrs. McGuire nettled in her turn. "I
guess I've known Dan'l Burton as long as you have; an' as for his
bein' your master--he can't call his soul his own when you're around,
an' you know it."

But Susan, with a disdainful sniff, picked up her now empty clothes-
basket and marched into the house.

Down the road Keith had reached the turn and was climbing the hill
that led to old Mr. Harrington's shabby cottage.

The boy's eyes were fixed straight ahead. A squirrel whisked his tail
alluringly from the bushes at the left, and a robin twittered from a
tree branch on the right. But the boy neither saw nor heard--and when
before had Keith Burton failed to respond to a furred or feathered
challenge like that?

To-day there was an air of dogged determination about even the way he
set one foot before the other. He had the air of one who sees his goal
ahead and cannot reach it soon enough. Yet when Keith arrived at the
sagging, open gate before the Harrington cottage, he stopped short as
if the gate were closed; and his next steps were slow and hesitant.
Walking on the grass at the edge of the path he made no sound as he
approached the stoop, on which sat an old man.

At the steps, as at the gate, Keith stopped and waited, his gaze on
the motionless figure in the rocking-chair. The old man sat with hands
folded on his cane-top, his eyes apparently looking straight ahead.

Slowly the boy lifted his right arm and waved it soundlessly. He
lifted his left--but there was no waving flourish. Instead it fell
impotently almost before it was lifted. On the stoop the old man still
sat motionless, his eyes still gazing straight ahead.

Again the boy hesitated; then, with an elaborately careless air, he
shuffled his feet on the gravel walk and called cheerfully:

"Hullo, Uncle Joe."

"Hullo! Oh, hullo! It's Keith Burton, ain't it?"

The old head turned with the vague indecision of the newly blind, and
a trembling hand thrust itself aimlessly forward. "It IS Keith--ain't
it?"

"Oh, yes, sir, I'm Keith."

The boy, with a quick look about him, awkwardly shook the fluttering
fingers--Keith was not in the habit of shaking hands with people,
least of all with Uncle Joe Harrington. He sat down then on the step
at the old man's feet.

"What did ye bring ter-day, my boy?" asked the man eagerly; then with
a quick change of manner, he sighed, "but I'm afraid I can't fix it,
anyhow."

"Oh, no, sir, you don't have to. I didn't bring anything to be mended
to-day." Unconsciously Keith had raised his voice. He was speaking
loudly, and very politely.

The old man fell back in his chair. He looked relieved, yet
disappointed.

"Oh, well, that's all right, then. I'm glad. That is, of course, if I
could have fixed it for you--His sentence remained unfinished. A
profound gloom settled over his countenance.

"But I didn't bring anything for you to fix," reiterated the boy, in a
yet louder tone.

"There, there, my boy, you don't have to shout." The old man shifted
uneasily hi his seat. "I ain't deaf. I'm only--I suppose you know,
Keith, what's come to me in my old age."

"Yes, sir, I--I do." The boy hitched a little nearer to the two ill-
shod feet on the floor near him. "And--and I wanted to ask you. Yours
hurt a lot, didn't they?--I mean, your eyes; they--they ached, didn't
they, before they--they got--blind?" He spoke eagerly, almost
hopefully.

The old man shook his head.

"No, not much. I s'pose I ought to be thankful I was spared that."

The boy wet his dry lips and swallowed.

"But, Uncle Joe, 'most always, I guess, when--when folks are going to
be blind, they--they DO ache, don't they?"

Again the old man stirred restlessly.

"I don't know. I only know about--myself."

"But--well, anyhow, it never comes till you're old--real old, does
it?" Keith's voice vibrated with confidence this time.

"Old? I ain't so very old. I'm only seventy-five," bridled Harrington
resentfully. "Besides anyhow, the doctor said age didn't have nothin'
ter do with this kind of blindness. It comes ter young folks, real
young folks, sometimes."

"Oh-h!" The boy wet his lips and swallowed again a bit convulsively.
With eyes fearful and questioning he searched the old man's face.
Twice he opened his mouth as if to speak; but each time he closed it
again with the words left unsaid. Then, with a breathless rush, very
much like desperation, he burst out:

"But it's always an awful long time comin', isn't it? Blindness is.
It's years and years before it really gets here, isn't it?"

"Hm-m; well, I can't say. I can only speak for myself, Keith."

"Yes, sir, I know, sir; and that's what I wanted to ask--about you,"
plunged on Keith feverishly. "When did you notice it first, and what
was it?"

The old man drew a long sigh.

"Why, I don't know as I can tell, exactly. 'T was quite a spell comin'
on--I know that; and't wasn't much of anything at first. 'T was just
that I couldn't see ter read clear an' distinct. It was all sort of
blurred."

"Kind of run together?" Just above his breath Keith asked the
question.

"Yes, that's it exactly. An' I thought somethin' ailed my glasses, an'
so I got some new ones. An' I thought at first maybe it helped. But it
didn't. Then it got so that't wa'n't only the printin' ter books an'
papers that was blurred, but ev'rything a little ways off was in a
fog, like, an' I couldn't see anything real clear an' distinct."

"Oh, but things--other things--don't look a mite foggy to me," cried
the boy.

"'Course they don't! Why should they? They didn't to me--once,"
retorted the man impatiently. "But now--" Again he left a sentence
unfinished.

"But how soon did--did you get--all blind, after that?" stammered the
boy, breaking the long, uncomfortable silence that had followed the
old man's unfinished sentence.

"Oh, five or six months--maybe more. I don't know exactly. I know it
came, that's all. I guess if 't was you it wouldn't make no difference
HOW it came, if it came, boy." "N-no, of course not," chattered Keith,
springing suddenly to his feet. "But I guess it isn't coming to me--of
course't isn't coming to me! Well, good-bye, Uncle Joe, I got to go
now. Good-bye!"

He spoke fearlessly, blithely, and his chin was at a confident tilt.
He even whistled as he walked down the hill. But in his heart--in his
heart Keith knew that beside him that very minute stalked that
shadowy, intangible creature that had dogged his footsteps ever since
his fourteenth birthday-gift from his father; and he knew it now by
name--The Great Terror.




CHAPTER II

DAD


Keith's chin was still high and his gaze still straight ahead when he
reached the foot of Harrington Hill. Perhaps that explained why he did
not see the two young misses on the fence by the side of the road
until a derisively gleeful shout called his attention to their
presence.

"Well, Keith Burton, I should like to know if you're blind!"
challenged a merry voice.

The boy turned with a start so violent that the girls giggled again
gleefully. "Dear, dear, did we scare him? We're so sorry!"

The boy flushed painfully. Keith did not like girls--that is, he SAID
he did not like them. They made him conscious of his hands and feet,
and stiffened his tongue so that it would not obey his will. The
prettier the girls were, the more acute was his discomfiture.
Particularly, therefore, did he dislike these two girls--they were the
prettiest of the lot. They were Mazie Sanborn and her friend Dorothy
Parkman.

Mazie was the daughter of the town's richest manufacturer, and Dorothy
was her cousin from Chicago, who made such long visits to her Eastern
relatives that it seemed sometimes almost as if she were as much of a
Hinsdale girl as was Mazie herself.

To-day Mazie's blue eyes and Dorothy's brown ones were full of
mischief.

"Well, why don't you say something? Why don't you apologize?" demanded
Mazie.

'"Pol--pologize? What for?" In his embarrassed misery Keith resorted
to bravado in voice and manner.

"Why, for passing us by in that impertinent fashion," returned Mazie
loftily. "Do you think that is the way ladies should be treated?"
(Mazie was thirteen and Dorothy fourteen.) "The idea!"

For a minute Keith stared helplessly, shifting from one foot to the
other. Then, with an inarticulate grunt, he turned away.

But Mazie was not to be so easily thwarted. With a mere flit of her
hand she tossed aside a score of years, and became instantly nothing
more than a wheedling little girl coaxing a playmate.

"Aw, Keithie, don't get mad! I was only fooling. Say, tell me, HAVE
you been up to Uncle Joe Harrington's?"

Because Mazie had caught his arm and now held it tightly, the boy
perforce came to a stop.

"Well, what if I have?" he resorted to bravado again.

"And is he blind, honestly?" Mazie's voice became hushed and
awestruck.

"Uh-huh." The boy nodded his head with elaborate unconcern, but he
shifted his feet uneasily.

"And he can't see a thing--not a thing?" breathed Mazie.

"'Course he can't, if he's blind!" Keith showed irritation now, and
pulled not too gently at the arm still held in Mazie's firm little
fingers.

"Blind! Ugghh!" interposed Miss Dorothy, shuddering visibly. "Oh, how
can you bear to look at him, Keith Burton? I couldn't!"

A sudden wave of red surged over the boy's face. The next instant it
had receded, leaving only a white, strained terror.

"Well, he ain't to blame for it, if he is blind, is he?" chattered the
boy, a bit incoherently. "If you're blind you're blind, and you can't
help yourself." And with a jerk he freed himself from Mazie's grasp
and hurried down the road toward home.

But when he reached the bend of the road he turned and looked back.
The two girls had returned to their perch on the fence, and were
deeply absorbed in something one of them held in her hand.

"And she said she couldn't bear--to look at 'em--if they were blind,"
he whispered. Then, wheeling about, he ran down the road as fast as he
could. Nor did he stop till he had entered his own gate.

"Well, Keith Burton, I should like to know where you've been," cried
the irate voice of Susan Betts from the doorway.

"Oh, just walking. Why?"

"Because I've been huntin' and huntin' for you.

     But, oh, dear me,
     You're worse'n a flea,
     So what's the use of talkin'?
     You always say,
     As you did to-day,
     I've just been out a-walkin'!"

"But what did you want me for?"

"I didn't want you. Your pa wanted you. But, then, for that matter,
he's always wantin' you. Any time, if you look at him real good an'
hard enough to get his attention, he'll stare a minute, an' then say:
'Where's Keith?' An' when he gets to the other shore, I suppose he'll
do it all the more."

"Oh, no, he won't--not if it's talking poetry. Father never talks
poetry. What makes you talk it so much, Susan? Nobody else does."

Susan laughed good-humoredly.

"Lan' sakes, child, I don't know, only I jest can't help it. Why,
everything inside of me jest swings along to a regular tune--kind of
keeps time, like. It's always been so. Why, Keithie, boy, it's been my
joy--There, you see--jest like that! I didn't know that was comin'. It
jest--jest came. That's all. I can make a rhyme 'most any time. Oh, of
course, most generally, when I write real poems, I have to sit down
with a pencil an' paper, an' write 'em out. It's only the spontaneous
combustion kind that comes all in a minute, without predisposed
thinkin'. Now, run along to your pa, child. He wants you. He's been
frettin' the last hour for you, jest because he didn't know exactly
where you was. Goodness me! I only hope I'll never have to live with
him if anything happens to you."

The boy had crossed the room; but with his hand on the door knob he
turned sharply.

"W-what do you mean by that?"

Susan Betts gave a despairing gesture.

"Lan' sakes, child, how you do hold a body up! I meant what I said--
that I didn't want the job of livin' with your pa if anything happened
to you. You know as well as I do that he thinks you're the very axle
for the earth to whirl 'round on. But, there, I don't know as I
wonder--jest you left, so!"

The boy abandoned his position at the door, and came close to Susan
Betts's side.

"That's what I've always wanted to know. Other boys have brothers and
sisters and--a mother. But I can't ever remember anybody only dad.
Wasn't there ever any one else?"

Susan Betts drew a long sigh.

"There were two brothers, but they died before you was born. Then
there was--your mother."

"But I never--knew her?"

"No, child. When they opened the door of Heaven to let you out she
slipped in, poor lamb. An' then you was all your father had left. So
of course he dotes on you. Goodness me, there ain't no end to the fine
things he's goin' ter have you be when you grow up."

"Yes, I know." The boy caught his breath convulsively and turned away.
"I guess I'll go--to dad."

At the end of the hall upstairs was the studio. Dad would probably be
there. Keith knew that. Dad was always there, when he wasn't sleeping
or eating, or out tramping through the woods. He would be sitting
before the easel now "puttering" over a picture, as Susan called it.
Susan said he was a very "insufficient, uncapacious" man--but that was
when she was angry or tried with him. She never let any one else say
such things about him.

Still, dad WAS very different from other dads. Keith had to
acknowledge that--to himself. Other boys' dads had offices and stores
and shops and factories where they worked, or else they were doctors
or ministers; and there was always money to get things with--things
that boys needed; shoes and stockings and new clothes, and candy and
baseball bats and kites and jack-knives.

Dad didn't have anything but a studio, and there never seemed to be
much money. What there was, was an "annual," Susan said, whatever that
was. Anyway, whatever it was, it was too small, and not nearly large
enough to cover expenses. Susan had an awful time to get enough to buy
their food with sometimes. She was always telling dad that she'd GOT
to have a little to buy eggs or butter or meat with.

And there were her wages--dad was always behind on those. And when the
bills came in at the first of the month, it was always awful then: dad
worried and frowning and unhappy and apologetic and explaining; Susan
cross and half-crying. Strange men, not overpleasant-looking, ringing
the doorbell peremptorily. And never a place at all where a boy might
feel comfortable to stay. Dad was always talking then, especially, how
he was sure he was going to sell THIS picture. But he never sold it.
At least, Keith never knew him to. And after a while he would begin a
new picture, and be SURE he was going to sell THAT.

But not only was dad different from other boys' dads, but the house
was different. First it was very old, and full of very old furniture
and dishes. Then blinds and windows and locks and doors were always
getting out of order; and they were apt to remain so, for there was
never any money to fix things with. There was also a mortgage on the
house. That is, Susan said there was; and by the way she said it, it
would seem to be something not at all attractive or desirable. Just
what a mortgage was, Keith did not exactly understand; but, for that
matter, quite probably Susan herself did not. Susan always liked to
use big words, and some of them she did not always know the meaning
of, dad said.

To-day, in the hallway, Keith stood a hesitant minute before his
father's door. Then slowly he pushed it open.

"Did you want me, dad?" he asked.

The man at the easel sprang to his feet. He was a tall, slender man,
with finely cut features and a pointed, blond beard. Susan had once
described him as "an awfully nice man to take care of, but not worth a
cent when it comes to takin' care of you." Yet there was every
evidence of loving protection in the arm he threw around his boy just
now.

"Want you? I always want you!" he cried affectionately. "Look! Do you
remember that moss we brought home yesterday? Well, I've got its twin
now." Triumphantly he pointed to the lower left-hand corner of the
picture on the easel, where was a carefully blended mass of greens and
browns.

"Oh, yes, why, so't is." (Keith had long since learned to see in his
father's pictures what his father saw.) "Say, dad, I wish't you'd tell
me about--my little brothers. Won't you, please?"

"And, Keith, look--do you recognize that little path? It's the one we
saw yesterday. I'm going to call this picture 'The Woodland Path'--and
I think it's going to be about the very best thing I ever did."

Keith was not surprised that his question had been turned aside:
questions that his father did not like to answer were always turned
aside. Usually Keith submitted with what grace he could muster; but
to-day he was in a persistent mood that would not be denied.

"Dad, WHY won't you tell me about my brothers? Please, what were their
names, and how old were they, and why did they die?"

[Illustration: "Want you? I always want you!"]

"God knows why they died--I don't!" The man's arm about the boy's
shoulder tightened convulsively.

"But how old were they?"

"Ned was seven and Jerry was four, and they were the light of my eyes,
and--But why do you make me tell you? Isn't it enough, Keith, that
they went, one after the other, not two days apart? And then the sun
went out and left the world gray and cold and cheerless, for the next
day--your mother went."

"And how about me, dad?"

The man did not seem to have heard. Still with his arm about the boy's
shoulder, he had dropped back into the seat before the easel. His eyes
now were somberly fixed out the window.

"Wasn't I--anywhere, dad?"

With a start the man turned. His arm tightened again. His eyes grew
moist and very tender.

"Anywhere? You're everywhere now, my boy. I'm afraid, at the first,
the very first, I didn't like to see you very well, perhaps because
you were ALL there was left. Then, little by little, I found you were
looking at me with your mother's eyes, and touching me with the
fingers of Ned and Jerry. And now--why, boy, you're everything. You're
Ned and Jerry and your mother all in one, my boy, my boy!"

Keith stirred restlessly. A horrible tightness came to his throat, yet
there was a big lump that must be swallowed.

"Er--that--that Woodland Path picture is going to be great, dad,
great!" he said then, in a very loud, though slightly husky, voice.
"Come on, let's---"

From the hall Susan's voice interrupted, chanting in a high-pitched
singsong:

     "Dinner's ready, dinner's ready,
      Hurry up, or you'll be late,
      Then you'll sure be cross and heady
      If there's nothin' left to ate."

Keith gave a relieved whoop and bounded toward the door. Never had
Susan's "dinner-bell" been a more welcome sound. Surely, at dinner,
his throat would have to loosen up, and that lump could then be
swallowed.

More slowly Keith's father rose from his chair.

"How impossible Susan is," he sighed. "I believe she grows worse every
day. Still I suppose I ought to be thankful she's good-natured--which
that absurd doggerel of hers proves that she is. However, I should
like to put a stop to it. I declare, I believe I will put a stop to
it, too! I'm going to insist on her announcing her meals in a proper
manner. Oh, Susan," he began resolutely, as he flung open the dining-
room door.

"Well, sir?" Susan stood at attention, her arms akimbo.

"Susan, I--I insist--that is, I wish---"

"You was sayin'--" she reminded him coldly, as he came to a helpless
pause.

"Yes. That is, I was saying--" His eyes wavered and fell to the table.
"Oh, hash--red-flannel hash! That's fine, Susan!"

But Susan was not to be cajoled. Her eyes still regarded him coldly.

"Yes, sir, hash. We most generally does have beet hash after b'iled
dinner, sir. You was sayin'?"

"Nothing, Susan, nothing. I--I've changed my mind," murmured the man
hastily, pulling out his chair. "Well, Keith, will you have some of
Susan's nice hash?"

"Yes, sir," said Keith.

Susan said nothing. But was there a quiet smile on her lips as she
left the room? If so, neither the man nor the boy seemed to notice it.

As for the very obvious change of attitude on the part of the man--
Keith had witnessed a like phenomenon altogether too often to give it
a second thought. And as for the doggerel that had brought about the
situation--that, also, was too familiar to cause comment.

It had been years since Susan first called them to dinner with her
"poem"; but Keith could remember just how pleased she had been, and
how gayly she had repeated it over and over, so as not to forget it.

"Oh, of course I know that 'ate' ain't good etiquette in that place,"
she had admitted at the time. "It should be 'eat.' But 'eat' don't
rhyme, an' 'ate' does. So I'm goin' to use it. An' I can, anyhow. It's
poem license; an' that'll let you do anything."

Since then she had used the verse for every meal--except when she was
out of temper--and by substituting breakfast or supper for dinner, she
had a call that was conveniently universal.

The fact that she used it ONLY when she was good-natured constituted
an unfailing barometer of the atmospheric condition of the kitchen,
and was really, in a way, no small convenience--especially for little
boys in quest of cookies or bread-and-jam. As for the master of the
house--this was not the first time he had threatened an energetic
warfare against that "absurd doggerel" (which he had cordially
abhorred from the very first); neither would it probably be the last
time that Susan's calm "Well, sir?" should send him into ignominious
defeat before the battle was even begun. And, really, after all was
said and done, there was still that one unfailing refuge for his
discomforted recollection: he could be thankful, when he heard it,
that she was good-natured; and with Susan that was no small thing to
be thankful for, as everybody knew--who knew Susan.

To-day, therefore, the defeat was not so bitter as to take all the
sweetness out of the "red-flannel" hash, and the frown on Daniel
Burton's face was quite gone when Susan brought in the dessert. Nor
did it return that night, even when Susan's shrill voice caroled
through the hall:

     "Supper's ready, supper's ready,
      Hurry up, or you'll be late,
      Then you'll sure be cross and heady
      If there's nothin' left to ate."




CHAPTER III

FOR JERRY AND NED


It was Susan Betts who discovered that Keith was not reading so much
that summer.

"An' him with his nose always in a book before," as she said one day
to Mrs. McGuire. "An' he don't act natural, somehow, neither, ter my
way of thinkin'. Have YOU noticed anything?"

"Why, no, I don't know as I have," answered Mrs. McGuire from the
other side of the fence, "except that he's always traipsin' off to the
woods with his father. But then, he's always done that, more or less."

"Indeed he has! But always before he's lugged along a book, sometimes
two; an' now--why he hain't even read the book his father give him on
his birthday. I know, 'cause I asked him one day what 't was about,
an' he said he didn't know; he hadn't read it."

"Deary me, Susan! Well, what if he hadn't? I shouldn't fret about
that. My gracious, Susan, if you had four children same as I have,
instead of one, I guess you wouldn't do no worryin' jest because a boy
didn't read a book. Though, as for my John, he---"

Susan lifted her chin.

"I wasn't talkin' about your children, Mis' McGuire," she interrupted.
"An' I reckon nobody'd do no worryin' if they didn't read. But Master
Keith is a different supposition entirely. He's very intelligible,
Master Keith is, and so is his father before him. Books is food to
them--real food. Hain't you ever heard of folks devourin' books? Well,
they do it. Of course I don't mean literaryly, but metaphysically."

"Oh, land o' love, Susan Betts!" cried Mrs. McGuire, throwing up both
hands and turning away scornfully. "Of course, when you get to talkin'
like that, NOBODY can say anything to you! However in the world that
poor Mr. Burton puts up with you, I don't see. _I_ wouldn't--not a
day--not a single day!" And by way of emphasis she entered her house
and shut the door with a slam.

Susan Betts, left alone, shrugged her shoulders disdainfully.

"Well, 'nobody asked you, sir, she said,'" she quoted, under her
breath, and slammed her door, also, by way of emphasis.

Yet both Susan and Mrs. McGuire knew very well that the next day would
find them again in the usual friendly intercourse over the back-yard
fence.

Susan Betts was a neighbor's daughter. She had lived all her life in
the town, and she knew everybody. Just because she happened to work in
Daniel Burton's kitchen was no reason, to her mind, why she should not
be allowed to express her opinion freely on all occasions, and on all
subjects, and to all persons. Such being her conviction she conducted
herself accordingly. And Susan always lived up to her convictions.

In the kitchen to-day she found Keith.

"Oh, I say, Susan, I was looking for you. Dad wants you."

"What for?"

"I don't know; but I GUESS it's because he wants to have something
besides beans and codfish and fish-hash to eat. Anyhow, he SAID he was
going to speak to you about it."

Susan stiffened into inexorable sternness.

"So he's goin' ter speak ter me, is he? Well, 't will be mighty little
good that'll do, as he ought to know very well. Beefsteaks an' roast
fowls cost money. Has he got the money for me?"

Without waiting for an answer to her question, she strode through the
door leading to the dining-room and shut it crisply behind her.

The boy did not follow her. Alone, in the kitchen he drummed idly on
the window-pane, watching the first few drops of a shower that had
been darkening the sky for an hour past.

After a minute he turned slowly and gazed with listless eyes about the
kitchen. On the table lay a folded newspaper. After a moment's
hesitation he crossed the room toward it. He had the air of one
impelled by some inner force against his will.

He picked the paper up, but did not at once look at it. In fact, he
looked anywhere but at it. Then, with a sudden jerk, he faced it.
Shivering a little he held it nearer, then farther away, then nearer
again. Then, with an inarticulate little cry he dropped the paper and
hurried from the room.

No one knew better than Keith himself that he was not reading much
this summer. Not that he put it into words, but he had a feeling that
so long as he was not SEEING how blurred the printed words were, he
would not be sure that they were blurred. Yet he knew that always,
whenever he saw a book or paper, his fingers fairly tingled to pick it
up--and make sure. Most of the time, however, Keith tried not to
notice the books and papers. Systematically he tried to forget that
there were books and papers--and he tried to forget the Great Terror.

Sometimes he persuaded himself that he was doing this. He contrived to
keep himself very busy that summer. Almost every day, when it did not
rain, he was off for a long walk with his father in the woods. His
father liked to walk in the woods. Keith never had to urge him to do
that. And what good times they had!--except that Keith did wish that
his father would not talk quite so much about what great things he,
Keith, was going to do when he should have become a man--and a great
artist.

One day he ventured to remonstrate.

"But, dad, maybe I--I shan't be a great artist at all. Maybe I shan't
be even a little one. Maybe I shall be just a--a man."

Keith never forgot his father's answer nor his father's anguished face
as he made that answer.

"Keith, I don't ever want you to let me hear you say that again. I
want you to KNOW that you're going to succeed. And you will succeed.
God will not be so cruel as to deny me that. _I_ have failed. You
needn't shake your head, boy, and say 'Oh, dad!' like that. I know
perfectly well what I'm talking about. _I_ HAVE FAILED---though it is
not often that I'll admit it, even to myself. But when I heard you say
to-day---

"Keith, listen to me. You've got to succeed. You've got to succeed not
only for yourself, but for Jerry and Ned, and for--me. All my hopes
for Jerry and Ned and for--myself are in you, boy. That's why, in all
our walks together, and at home in the studio, I'm trying to teach you
something that you will want to know by and by."

Keith never remonstrated with his father after that. He felt worse
than ever now when his father talked of what great things he was going
to do; but he knew that remonstrances would do no good, but rather
harm; and he did not want to hear his father talk again as he had
talked that day, about Jerry and Ned and himself. As if it were not
bad enough, under the best of conditions, to have to be great and
famous for one's two dead brothers and one's father; while if one were
blind---

But Keith refused to think of that. He tried very hard, also, to
absorb everything that his father endeavored to teach him. He listened
and watched and said "yes, sir," and he did his best to make the
chalks and charcoal that were put into his hands follow the copy set
for him.

To be sure, in this last undertaking, his efforts were not always
successful. The lines wavered and blurred and were far from clear.
Still, they were not half so bad as the print in books; and if it
should not get any worse--Besides, had he not always loved to draw
cats and dogs and faces ever since he could hold a pencil?

And so, with some measure of hope as to the results, he was setting
himself to be that great and famous artist that his father said he
must be.

But it was not all work for Keith these summer days. There were games
and picnics and berry expeditions with the boys and girls, all of
which he hailed with delight--one did not have to read, or even study
wavering lines and figures, on picnics or berrying expeditions! And
that WAS a relief. To be sure, there was nearly always Mazie, and if
there was Mazie, there was bound to be Dorothy. And Dorothy had said--
Some way he could never see Dorothy without remembering what she did
say on that day he had come home from Uncle Joe Harrington's.

Not that he exactly blamed her, either. For was not he himself acting
as if he felt the same way and did not like to look at blind persons?
Else why did he so persistently keep away from Uncle Joe now? Not
once, since that first day, had he been up to see the poor old blind
man. And before--why, before he used to go several times a week.




CHAPTER IV

SCHOOL


And so the summer passed, and September came. And September brought a
new problem--school. And school meant books.

Two days before school began Keith sought Susan Betts in the kitchen.

"Say, Susan, that was awfully good johnny-cake we had this morning."

Susan picked up another plate to dry and turned toward her visitor.
Her face was sternly grave, though there was something very like a
twinkle in her eye.

"There ain't no cookies, if that's what you're wantin'," she said.

"Aw, Susan, I never said a word about cookies."

"Then what is it you want? It's plain to be seen there's something, I
ween."

"My, how easy you do make rhymes, Susan. What's that 'I ween' mean?"

"Now, Keith Burton, this beatin' the bush like this don't do one mite
of good. You might jest as well out with it first as last. Now, what
is it you want?"

Keith drew a long sigh.

"Well, Susan, there IS something--a little something--only I meant
what I said about the johnny-cake and the rhymes; truly, I did."

"Well?" Susan was smiling faintly.

"Susan, you know you can make dad do anything."

Susan began to stiffen, and Keith hastened to disarm her.

"No, no, truly! This is the part I want. You CAN make dad do anything;
and I want you to do it for me."

"Do what?"

"Make him let me off from school any more."

"Let you off from school!" In her stupefied amazement Susan actually
forgot to pick up another plate from the dishpan.

"Yes. Tell him I'm sick, or 't isn't good for me. And truly, 't isn't
good for me. And truly, I am quite a little sick, Susan. I don't feel
well a bit. There's a kind of sinking feeling in my stomach, and---"

But Susan had found her wits and her tongue by this time, and she gave
free rein to her wrath.

"Let you off from school, indeed! Why, Keith Burton, I'm ashamed of
you--an' you that I've always boasted of! What do you want to do--grow
up a perfect ignominious?"

Keith drew back resentfully, and uptilted his chin.

"No, Susan Betts, I'm not wanting to be a--a ignominious, and I don't
intend to be one, either. I'm going to be an artist--a great big
famous artist, and I don't NEED school for that. How are
multiplication tables and history and grammar going to help me paint
big pictures? That's what I want to know. But I'm afraid that dad--
Say, WON'T you tell dad that I don't NEED books any more, and---"But
he stopped short, so extraordinary was the expression that had come to
Susan Betts's face. If it were possible to think of Susan Betts as
crying, he should think she was going to cry now.

"Need books? Why, child, there ain't nobody but what needs books. An'
I guess I know! What do you suppose I wouldn't give now if I could 'a'
had books an' book-learnin' when I was young? I could 'a' writ real
poetry then that would sell. I could 'a' spoke out an' said things
that are in my soul, an' that I CAN'T say now, 'cause I don't know the
words that--that will impress what I mean. Now, look a-here, Keith
Burton, you're young. You've got a chance. Do you see to it that you
make good. An' it's books that will help you do it."

"But books won't help me paint, Susan."

"They will, too. Books will help you do anything."

"Then you won't ask dad?"

"Indeed, I won't."

"But I don't see how books---" With a long sigh Keith turned away.

In the studio the next morning he faced his father.

"Dad, you can't learn to paint pictures by just READING how to do it,
can you?"

"You certainly cannot, my boy."

"There! I told Susan Betts so, but she wouldn't LISTEN to me. And so--
I don't have to go to school any more, do I?"

"Don't have to go to school any more! Why, Keith, what an absurd idea!
Of course you've got to go to school!"

"But just to be an artist and paint pictures, I don't see---"

But his father cut him short and would not listen.

Five minutes later a very disappointed, disheartened young lad left
the studio and walked slowly down the hall.

There was no way out of it. If one were successfully to be Jerry and
Ned and dad and one's self, all in one, there was nothing but school
and more school, and, yes, college, that would give one the proper
training. Dad had said it.

Keith went to school the next morning. With an oh-well-I-don't-care
air he slung his books over his shoulder and swung out the gate,
whistling blithely.

It might not be so bad, after all, he was telling himself. Perhaps the
print would be plainer now. Anyway, he could learn a lot in class
listening to the others; and maybe some of the boys would study with
him, and do the reading part.

But it was not to be so easy as Keith hoped for. To begin with, the
print had not grown any clearer. It was more blurred than ever. To be
sure, it was much worse with one eye than with the other; but he could
not keep one eye shut all the time. Besides--his eyes ached now if he
tried to use them much, and grew red and inflamed, and he was afraid
his father would notice them. He began to see strange flashes of
rainbow light now, too. And sometimes little haloes around the lamp
flame. As if one could study books with all that!

True, he learned something in class--but naturally he was never called
upon to recite what had already been given, so he invariably failed
miserably when it came to his turn. Even the "boy to study with"
proved to be a delusion and a snare, for no boy was found who cared to
do "all the reading," without being told the reason why it was
expected of him--and that was exactly what Keith was straining every
nerve to keep to himself.

And so week in and week out Keith stumbled along through those misery-
filled days, each one seemingly a little more unbearable than the
last. Of course, it could not continue indefinitely, and Keith, in his
heart, knew it. Almost every lesson was more or less of a failure, and
recitation hour was a torture and a torment. The teacher alternately
reproved and reproached him, with frequent appeals to his pride,
holding up for comparison his splendid standing of the past. His
classmates gibed and jeered mercilessly. And Keith stood it all. Only
a tightening of his lips and a new misery in his eyes showed that he
had heard and understood. He made neither apology nor explanation.
Above all, by neither word nor sign did he betray that, because the
print in his books was blurred, he could not study.

Then came the day when his report card was sent to his father, and he
himself was summoned to the studio to answer for it.

"Well, my son, what is the meaning of that?"

Keith had never seen his father look so stern. He was holding up the
card, face outward. Keith knew that the damning figures were there,
and he suspected what they were, though he could see only a blurred
mass of indistinct marks. With one last effort he attempted still to
cling to his subterfuge.

"What--what is it?" he stammered.

"'What is it?'--and in the face of a record like that!" cried his
father sternly. "That's exactly what I want to know. What is it? Is
this the way, Keith, that you're showing me that you don't want to go
to school? I haven't forgotten, you see, that you tried to beg off
going this fall. Now, what is the matter?"

Keith shifted his position miserably. His face grew white and
strained-looking.

"I--I couldn't seem to get my lessons, dad."

"Couldn't! You mean you wouldn't, Keith. Surely, you're not trying to
make me think you couldn't have made a better record than this, if
you'd tried."

There was no answer.

"Keith!" There was only pleading in the voice now--pleading with an
unsteadiness more eloquent than words. "Have you forgotten so soon
what I told you?--how now you hold all the hopes of Jerry and Ned and
of--dad in your own two hands? Keith, do you think, do you really
think you're treating Jerry and Ned and dad--square?"

For a moment there was no answer; then a very faint, constrained voice
asked:

"What were those figures, dad?"

"Read for yourself." With the words the card was thrust into his hand.

Keith bent his head. His eyes apparently were studying the card.

"Suppose you read them aloud, Keith."

There was a moment's pause; then with a little convulsive breath the
words came.

"I--can't--dad."

The man smiled grimly.

"Well, I don't know as I wonder. They are pretty bad. However, I guess
we'll have to have them. Read them aloud, Keith."

"But, honest, dad, I can't. I mean--they're all blurred and run
together." The boy's face was white like paper now.

Daniel Burton gave his son a quick glance.

"Blurred? Run together?" He reached for the card and held it a moment
before his own eyes. Then sharply he looked at his son again. "You
mean--Can't you read any of those figures--the largest ones?"

Keith shook his head.

"Why, Keith, how long---" A sudden change came to his face. "You mean
--is that the reason you haven't been able to get your lessons, boy?"

Keith nodded dumbly, miserably.

"But, my dear boy, why in the world didn't you say so? Look here,
Keith, how long has this been going on?"

There was no answer.

"Since the very first of school?"

"Before that."

"How long before that?"

"Last spring on my--birthday. I noticed it first--then."

"Good Heavens! As long as that, and never a word to me? Why, Keith,
what in the world possessed you? Why didn't you tell me? We'd have had
that fixed up long ago."

"Fixed up?" Keith's eyes were eager, incredulous.

"To be sure. We'd have had some glasses, of course."

Keith shook his head. All the light fled from his face.

"Uncle Joe Harrington tried that, but it didn't help--any."

"Uncle Joe! But Uncle Joe is---" Daniel Burton stopped short. A new
look came to his eyes. Into his son's face he threw a glance at once
fearful, searching, rebellious. Then he straightened up angrily.

"Nonsense, Keith! Don't get silly notions into your head," he snapped
sharply. "It's nothing but a little near-sightedness, and we'll have
some glasses to remedy that in no time. We'll go down to the
optician's to-morrow. Meanwhile I'll drop a note to your teacher, and
you needn't go to school again till we get your glasses."

Near-sightedness! Keith caught at the straw and held to it fiercely.
Near-sightedness! Of course, it was that, and not blindness, like
Uncle Joe's at all. Didn't dad know? Of course, he did! Still, if it
was near-sightedness he ought to be able to see near to; and yet it
was just as blurred--But, then, of course it WAS near-sightedness. Dad
said it was.

They went to the optician's the next morning. It seemed there was an
oculist, too, and he had to be seen. When the lengthy and arduous
examinations were concluded, Keith drew a long breath. Surely now,
after all that--

Just what they said Keith did not know. He knew only that he did not
get any glasses, and that his father was very angry, and very much put
out about something, and that he kept declaring that these old idiots
didn't know their business, anyway, and the only thing to do was to go
to Boston where there was somebody who DID know his business.

They went to Boston a few days later. It was not a long journey, but
Keith hailed it with delight, and was very much excited over the
prospect of it. Still, he did not enjoy it very well, for with his
father he had to go from one doctor to another, and none of them
seemed really to understand his business--that is, not well enough to
satisfy his father, else why did he go to so many? And there did not
seem to be anywhere any glasses that would do any good.

Keith began to worry then, for fear that his father had been wrong,
and that it was not near-sightedness after all. He could not forget
Uncle Joe--and Uncle Joe had not been able to find any glasses that
did any good. Besides, he heard his father and the doctors talking a
great deal about "an accident," and a "consequent injury to the optic
nerve"; and he had to answer a lot of questions about the time when he
was eleven years old and ran into the big maple tree with his sled,
cutting a bad gash in his forehead. But as if that, so long ago, could
have anything to do with things looking blurred now!

But it did have something to do with it--several of the doctors said
that; and they said it was possible that a slight operation now might
arrest the disease. They would try it. Only one eye was badly affected
at present.

So it was arranged that Keith should stay a month with one of the
doctors, letting his father go back to Hinsdale.

It was not a pleasant experience, and it seemed to Keith anything but
a "slight operation"; but at the end of the month the bandages were
off, and his father had come to take him back home.

The print was not quite so blurred now, though it was still far from
clear, and Keith noticed that his father and the doctors had a great
deal to say to each other in very low tones, and that his father's
face was very grave.

Then they started for home. On the journey his father talked
cheerfully, even gayly; but Keith was not at all deceived. For perhaps
half an hour he watched his father closely. Then he spoke.

"Dad, you might just as well tell me."

"Tell you what?"

"About those doctors--what they said."

"Why, they said all sorts of things, Keith. You heard them yourself."
The man spoke lightly, still cheerily.

"Oh, yes, they said all sorts of things, but they didn't say anything
PARTICULAR before me. They always talked to you soft and low on one
side. I want to know what they said then."

"Why, really, Keith, they---"

"Dad," interposed the boy a bit tensely, when his father's hesitation
left the sentence unfinished, "you might just as well tell me. I know
already it isn't good, or you'd have told me right away. And if it's
bad--I might just as well know it now, 'cause I'll have to know it
sometime. Dad, what did they say? Don't worry. I can stand it--honest,
I can. I've GOT to stand it. Besides, I've been expecting it--ever so
long. 'Keith, you're going to be blind.' I wish't you'd say it right
out like that--if you've got to say it."

But the man shuddered and gave a low cry.

"No, no, Keith, never! I'll not say it. You're not going to be blind!"

"But didn't they say I was?"

"They said--they said it MIGHT be. They couldn't tell yet." The man
wet his lips and cleared his throat huskily. "They said--it would be
some time yet before they could tell, for sure. And even then, if it
came, there might be another operation that--But for now, Keith, we've
got to wait--that's all. I've got some drops, and there are certain
things you'll have to do each day. You can't go to school, and you
can't read, of course; but there are lots of things you can do. And
there are lots of things we can do together--you'll see. And it's
coming out all right. It's bound to come out all right."

"Yes, sir." Keith said the two words, then shut his lips tight. Keith
could not trust himself to talk much just then. Babies and girls
cried, of course; but men, and boys who were almost men--they did not
cry.

For a long minute he said nothing; then, with his chin held high and
his breath sternly under control, he said:

"Of course, dad, if I do get blind, you won't expect me to be Jerry,
and Ned, and--and you, all in a bunch, then, will you?"

This time it was dad who could not speak--except with a strong right
arm that clasped with a pressure that hurt.




CHAPTER V

WAITING


Not for some days after his return from Boston did Keith venture out
upon the street. He knew then at once that the whole town had heard
all about his trip to Boston and what the doctors had said. He tried
not to see the curious glances cast in his direction. He tried not to
care that the youngest McGuire children stood at their gate and
whispered, with fingers plainly pointing toward himself.

He did not go near the schoolhouse, and he stayed at the post-office
until he felt sure all the scholars must have reached home. Then, just
at the corner of his own street, he met Mazie Sanborn and Dorothy
Parkman face to face. He would have passed quickly, with the briefest
sort of recognition, but Mazie stopped him short.

"Keith, oh, Keith, it isn't true, is it?" she cried breathlessly. "You
aren't going to be blind?"

"Mazie, how could you!" cried Dorothy sharply. And because she
shuddered and half turned away, Keith saw only the shudder and the
turning away, and did not realize that it was rebuke and remonstrance,
and not aversion, that Dorothy was expressing so forcibly.

Keith stiffened.

"Say, Keith, I'm awfully sorry, and so's Dorothy. Why, she hasn't
talked about a thing, hardly, but that, since she heard of it."

"Mazie, I have, too," protested Dorothy sharply.

"Well, anyway, it was she who insisted on coming around this way to-
day," teased Mazie wickedly; "and when I---"

"I'm going home, whether you are or not," cut in Miss Dorothy, with
dignity. And with a low chuckle Mazie tossed a good-bye to Keith and
followed her lead.

Keith, his chin aggressively high, strode in the opposite direction.

"I suppose she wanted to see how really bad I did look," he was
muttering fiercely, under his breath. "Well, she needn't worry. If I
do get blind, I'll take good care she don't have to look at me, nor
Mazie, nor any of the rest of them."

Keith went out on the street very little after that, and especially he
kept away from it after school hours. They were not easy--those winter
days. The snow lay deep in the woods, and it was too cold for long
walks. He could not read, nor paint, nor draw, nor use his eyes about
anything that tried them. But he was by no means idle. He had found
now "the boy to do the reading"--his father. For hours every day they
studied together, Keith memorizing, where it was necessary, what his
father read, always discussing and working out the problems together.
That he could not paint or draw was a great cross to his father, he
knew.

Keith noticed, too,--and noticed it with a growing heartache,--that
nothing was ever said now about his being Jerry and Ned and dad
himself all in a bunch. And he understood, of course, that if he was
going to be blind, he could not be Jerry and--

But Keith was honestly trying not to think of that; and he welcomed
most heartily anything or anybody that helped him toward that end.

Now there was Susan. Not once had Susan ever spoken to him of his
eyes, whether he could or could not see. But Susan knew about it. He
was sure of that. First he suspected it when he found her, the next
day after his return from Boston, crying in the pantry.

SUSAN CRYING! Keith stood in the doorway and stared unbelievingly. He
had not supposed that Susan could cry.

"Why, Susan!" he gasped. "What IS the matter?"

He never forgot the look on Susan's face as she sprang toward him, or
the quick cry she gave.

"Oh, Keith, my boy, my boy!" Then instantly she straightened back,
caught up a knife, and began to peel an onion from a pan on the shelf
before her. "Cryin'? Nonsense!" she snapped quaveringly. "Can't a body
peel a pan of onions without being accused of cryin' about somethin'?
Shucks! What should I be cryin' for, anyway, to be sure?

      Some things need a knife,
      An' some things need a pill,
      An' some things jest a laugh'll make a cure.
      But jest you bet your life,
      You may cry jest fit to kill,
      An' never cure nothin'--that is sure.

That's what I always say when I see folks cryin'. An' it's so, too.
Here, Keith, want a cooky? An' take a jam tart, too. I made 'em this
mornin', 'specially for you."

With which astounding procedure--for her--Susan pushed a plate of
cookies and tarts toward him, then picked up her pan of onions and
hurried into the kitchen.

Once again Keith stared. Cookies and jam tarts, and made for him? If
anything, this was even more incomprehensible than were the tears in
Susan's eyes. Then suddenly the suspicion came to him--SUSAN KNEW. And
this was her way---

The suspicion did not become a certainty, however, until two days
later. Then he overheard Susan and Mrs. McGuire talking in the
kitchen. He had slipped into the pantry to look for another of those
cookies made for him, when he heard Mrs. McGuire burst into the
kitchen and accost Susan agitatedly. And her first words were such
that he could not bring himself to step out into view.

"Susan," she had cried, "it ain't true, is it? IS it true that Keith
Burton is going--BLIND? My John says---"

"Sh-h! You don't have to shout it out like that, do ye?" demanded
Susan crossly, yet in a voice that was far from steady. "Besides,
that's a very extravagated statement."

"You mean exaggerated, I suppose," retorted Mrs. McGuire impatiently.
"Well, I'm sure I'm glad if it is, of course. But can't you tell me
anything about it? Or, don't you know?"

Keith knew--though he could not see her--just how Susan was drawing
herself up to her full height.

"I guess I know--all there is to know, Mis' McGuire," she said then
coldly. "But there ain't anybody KNOWS anything. We're jest waitin' to
see." Her voice had grown unsteady again.

"You mean he MAY be blind, later?"

"Yes."

"Oh, the poor boy! Ain't that terrible? How CAN they stand it?"

"I notice there are things in this world that have to be stood. An'
when they have to be stood, they might as well be--stood, an' done
with it."

"Yes, I suppose so," sighed Mrs. McGuire. Then, after a pause: "But
what is it--that's makin' him blind?"

"I don't know. They ain't sayin'. I thought maybe't was a catamount,
but they say't ain't that."

"But when is it liable to come?"

"Come? How do I know? How does anybody know?" snapped Susan tartly.
"Look a-here, Mis' McGuire, you must excuse me from discoursin'
particulars. We don't talk 'em here. None of us don't."

"Well, you needn't be so short about it, Susan Betts. I'm only tryin'
to show a little sympathy. You don't seem to realize at all what a
dreadful thing this is. My John says---"

"Don't I--DON'T I?" Susan's voice shook with emotion. "Don't you
s'pose that I know what it would be with the sun put out, an' the moon
an' the stars, an' never a thing to look at but black darkness all the
rest of your life? Never to be able to see the blue sky, or your
father's face, or--But talkin' about it don't help any. Look a-here,
if somethin' awful was goin' to happen to you, would YOU want folks to
be talkin' to you all the time about it? No, I guess you wouldn't. An'
so we don't talk here. We're just--waitin'. It may come in a year, it
may come sooner, or later. It may not come at all. An' while we ARE
waitin' there ain't nothin' we can do except to do ev'rything the
doctor tells us, an' hope--'t won't ever come."

Even Mrs. McGuire could have had no further doubt about Susan's
"caring." No one who heard Susan's voice then could have doubted it.
Mrs. McGuire, for a moment, made no answer; then, with an inarticulate
something that might have passed for almost any sort of comment, she
rose to her feet and left the house.

In the pantry, Keith, the cookies long since forgotten, shamelessly
listened at the door and held his breath to see which way Susan's
footsteps led. Then, when he knew that the kitchen was empty, he
slipped out, still cookyless, and hurried upstairs to his own room.

Keith understood, after that, why Susan did not talk to him about his
eyes; and because he knew she would not talk, he felt at ease and at
peace with her.

It was not so with others. With others (except with his father) he
never knew when a dread question or a hated comment was to be made.
And so he came to avoid those others more and more.

At the first signs of spring, and long before the snow was off the
ground, Keith took to the woods. When his father did not care to go,
he went alone. It was as if he wanted to fill his inner consciousness
with the sights and sounds of his beloved out-of-doors, so that when
his outer eyes were darkened, his inner eyes might still hold the
pictures. Keith did not say this, even to himself; but when every day
Susan questioned him minutely as to what he had seen, and begged him
to describe every budding tree and every sunset, he wondered; was it
possible that Susan, too, was trying to fill that inner consciousness
with visions?

Keith was thrown a good deal with Susan these days. Sometimes it
seemed as if there were almost no one but Susan. Certainly all those
others who talked and questioned--he did not want to be with them. And
his father--sometimes it seemed to Keith that his father did not like
to be with him as well as he used to. And, of course, if he was going
to be blind--Dad never had liked disagreeable subjects. Had HE become
--a disagreeable subject?

And so there seemed, indeed, at times, no one but Susan. Susan,
however, was a host in herself. Susan was never cross now, and almost
always she had a cooky or a jam tart for him. She told lots of funny
stories, and there were always her rhymes and jingles. She had a new
one every day, sometimes two or three a day.

There was no subject too big or too little for Susan to put into
rhyme. Susan said that something inside of her was a gushing siphon of
poems, anyway, and she just had to get them out of her system. And she
told Keith that spring always made the siphon gush worse than ever,
for some reason. She didn't know why.

Keith suspected that she said this by way of an excuse for repeating
so many of her verses to him just now. But Keith was not deceived. He
had not forgotten what Susan had said to Mrs. McGuire in the kitchen
that day; and he knew very well that all this especial attention to
him was only Susan's way of trying to help him "wait."




CHAPTER VI

LIGHTS OUT


And so Keith waited, through the summer and into another winter. And
April came. Keith was not listening to Susan's rhymes and jingles now,
nor was he tramping through the woods in search of the first sign of
spring. Both eyes had become badly affected now. Keith knew that and--

THE FOG HAD COME. Keith had seen the fog for several days before he
knew what it was. He had supposed it to be really--fog. Then one day
he said to Susan:

"Where's the sun? We haven't had any BRIGHT sun for days and days--
just this horrid old foggy fog."

"Fog? Why, there ain't any fog!" exclaimed Susan. "The sun is as
bright---" She stopped short. Keith could not see her face very
clearly--Keith was not seeing anything clearly these days. "Nonsense,
Keith, of course, the sun is shinin'!" snapped Susan. "Now don't get
silly notions in your head!" Then she turned and hurried from the
room.

And Keith knew. And he knew that Susan knew.

Keith did not mention the fog to his father--dad did not like
disagreeable subjects. But somebody must have mentioned it--Susan,
perhaps. At all events, before the week was out Keith went with his
father again to Boston.

It was a sorry journey. Keith did not need to go to Boston. Keith knew
now. There was no one who could tell him anything. Dad might laugh and
joke and call attention to everything amusing that he wanted to--it
would make no difference. Besides, as if he could not hear the shake
in dad's voice under all the fun, and as if he could not feel the
tremble in dad's hand on his shoulder!

Boston was the same dreary round of testing, talk, and questions,
hushed voices and furtive glances, hurried trips from place to place;
only this time it was all sharper, shorter, more decisive, and there
was no operation. It was not the time for that now, the doctors said.
Moreover, this time dad did not laugh, or joke, or even talk on the
homeward journey. But that, too, made no difference. Keith already
knew.

He knew so well that he did not question him at all. But if he had not
known, he would have known from Susan the next day. For he found Susan
crying three times the next forenoon, and each time she snapped out so
short and sharp about something so entirely foreign from what he asked
her that he would have known that Susan knew.

Keith did wonder how many months it would be. Some way he had an idea
it would be very few now. As long as it was coming he wished it would
come, and come quick. This waiting business--On the whole he was glad
that Susan was cross, and that his father spent his days shut away in
his own room with orders that he was not to be disturbed. For, as for
talking about this thing--

It was toward the last of July that Keith discovered how indistinct
were growing the outlines of the big pictures on the wall at the end
of the hall. Day by day he had to walk nearer and nearer before he
could see them at all. He wondered just how many steps would bring him
to the wall itself. He was tempted once to count them--but he could
not bring himself to do that; so he knew then that in his heart he did
not want to know just how many days it would be before--

But there came a day when he was but two steps away. He told himself
it would be in two days then. But it did not come in two days. It did
not come in a week. Then, very suddenly, it came.

He woke up one morning to find it quite dark. For a minute he thought
it WAS dark; then the clock struck seven--and it was August.

Something within Keith seemed to snap then. The long-pent strain of
months gave way. With one agonized cry of "Dad, it's come--it's come!"
he sprang from the bed, then stood motionless in the middle of the
room, his arms outstretched. But when his father and Susan reached the
room he had fallen to the floor in a dead faint.

It was some weeks before Keith stood upright on his feet again. His
illness was a long and serious one. Late in September, Mrs. McGuire,
hanging out her clothes, accosted Susan over the back-yard fence.

"I heard down to the store last night that Keith Burton was goin' to
get well."

"Of course he's goin' to get well," retorted Susan with emphasis. "I
knew he was, all the time."

"All the same, I think it's a pity he is." Mrs. McGuire's lips came
together a bit firmly. "He's stone blind, I hear, an' my John says--"

"Well, what if he is?" demanded Susan, almost fiercely. "You wouldn't
kill the child, would you? Besides SEEIN' is only one of his
facilities. He's got all the rest left. I reckon he'll show you he can
do somethin' with them."

Mrs. McGuire shook her head mournfully.

"Poor boy, poor boy! How's he feel himself? Has he got his senses, his
real senses yet?"

"He's just beginnin' to." The harshness in Susan's voice betrayed her
difficulty in controlling it. "Up to now he hain't sensed anything,
much. Of course, part of the time he hain't known ANYTHING--jest lay
there in a stupid. Then, other times he's jest moaned of-of the dark--
always the dark.

"At first he--when he talked--seemed to be walkin' through the woods;
an' he'd tell all about what he saw; the 'purple sunsets,' an'
'dancin' leaves,' an' the merry little brooks hurryin' down the
hillside,' till you could jest SEE the place he was talkin' about. But
now--now he's comin' to full conscientiousness, the doctor says; an'
he don't talk of anything only--only the dark. An' pretty quick he'll
--know."

"An' yet you want that poor child to live, Susan Betts!"

"Of course I want him to live!"

"But what can he DO?"

"Do? There ain't nothin' he can't do. Why, Mis' McGuire, listen! I've
been readin' up. First, I felt as you do--a little. I--I didn't WANT
him to live. Then I heard of somebody who was blind, an' what he did.
He wrote a great book. I've forgotten its name, but it was somethin'
about Paradise. PARADISE--an' he was in prison, too. Think of writin'
about Paradise when you're shut up in jail--an' blind, at that! Well,
I made up my mind if that man could see Paradise through them prison
bars with his poor blind eyes, then Keith could. An' I was goin' to
have him do it, too. An' so I went down to the library an' asked Miss
Hemenway for a book about him. An' I read it. An' then she told me
about more an' more folks that was blind, an' what they had done. An'
I read about them, too."

"Well, gracious me, Susan Betts, if you ain't the limit!" commented
Mrs. McGuire, half admiringly, half disapprovingly.

"Well, I did. An'--why, Mis' McGuire, you hain't any inception of an
idea of what those men an' women an'--yes, children--did. Why, one of
'em wasn't only blind, but deaf an' dumb, too. She was a girl. An' now
she writes books an' gives lecturin's, an', oh, ev'rything."

"Maybe. I ain't sayin' they don't. But I guess somebody else has to do
a part of it. Look at Keith right here now. How are you goin' to take
care of him when he gets up an' begins to walk around? Why, he can't
see to walk or--or feed himself, or anything. Has the nurse gone?"

Susan shook her head. Her lips came together grimly.

"No. Goes next week, though. Land's sakes, but I hope that woman is
expulsive enough! Them entrained nurses always cost a lot, I guess.
But we've just had to have her while he was so sick. But she's goin'
next week."

"But what ARE you goin' to do? You can't tag him around all day an' do
your other work, too. Of course, there's his father--"

"His father! Good Heavens, woman, I wonder if you think I'd trust that
boy to his father?" demanded Susan indignantly. "Why, once let him get
his nose into that paint-box, an' he don't know anything--not
anything. Why, I wouldn't trust him with a baby rabbit--if I cared for
the rabbit. Besides, he don't like to be with Keith, nor see him, nor
think of him. He feels so bad."

"Humph! Well, if he does feel bad I don't think that's a very nice way
to show it. Not think of him, indeed! Well, I guess he'll find SOME
one has got to think of him now. But there! that's what you might
expect of Daniel Burton, I s'pose, moonin' all day over those silly
pictures of his. As my John says--"

"They're not silly pictures," cut in Susan, flaring into instant
wrath. "He HAS to paint pictures in order to get money to live, don't
he? Well, then, let him paint. He's an artist--an extinguished artist
--not just a common storekeeper." (Mr. McGuire, it might be mentioned
in passing, kept a grocery store.) "An' if you're artistical, you're
different from other folks. You have to be."

"Nonsense, Susan! That's all bosh, an' you know it. What if he does
paint pictures? That hadn't ought to hinder him from takin' proper
care of his own son, had it?"

"Yes, if he's blind." Susan spoke with firmness and decision. "You
don't seem to understand at all, Mis' McGuire. Mr. Burton is an
artist. Artists like flowers an' sunsets an' clouds an' brooks. They
don't like disagreeable things. They don't want to see 'em or think
about 'em. I know. It's that way with Mr. Burton. Before, when Keith
was all right, he couldn't bear him out of his sight, an' he was goin'
to have him do such big, fine, splendid things when he grew up. Now,
since he's blind, he can't bear him IN his sight. He feels that bad.
He just won't be with him if he can help it. But he ain't forgettin'
him. He's thinkin' of him all the time. _I_ KNOW. An' it's tellin' on
him. He's lookin' thin an' bad an' sick. You see, he's so
disappointed, when he'd counted on such big things for that boy!"

"Humph! Well, I'll risk HIM. It's Keith I'm worry in' about. Who is
going to take care of him?"

Susan Betts frowned.

"Well, _I_ could, I think. But there's a sister of Mr. Burton's--she's
comin'."

"Not Nettie Colebrook?"

"Yes, Mis' Colebrook. That's her name. She's a widow, an' hain't got
anything needin' her. She wrote an' offered, an' Mr. Burton said yes,
if she'd be so kind. An' she's comin'."

"When?"

"Next week. The day the nurse goes. Why? What makes you look so queer?
Do you know--Mis' Colebrook?"

"Know Nettie Burton Colebrook? Well, I should say I did! I went to
boardin'-school with her."

"Humph!" Susan threw a sharp glance into Mrs. McGuire's face. Susan
looked as if she wanted to ask another question. But she did not ask
it. "Humph!" she grunted again; and turned back to the sheet she was
hanging on the line.

There was a brief pause, then Mrs. McGuire commented dryly:

"I notice you ain't doin' no rhymin' to-day, Susan."

"Ain't I? Well, perhaps I ain't. Some way, they don't come out now so
natural an' easy-like."

"What's the matter? Ain't the machine workin'?"

Susan shook her head. Then she drew a long sigh. Picking up her empty
basket she looked at it somberly.

"Not the way it did before. Some way, there don't seem anything inside
of me now only dirges an' funeral marches. Everywhere, all day,
everything I do an' everywhere I go I jest hear: 'Keith's blind,
Keith's blind!' till it seems as if I jest couldn't bear it."

With something very like a sob Susan turned and hurried into the
house.




CHAPTER VII

SUSAN TO THE RESCUE


It was when the nurse was resting and Susan was with Keith that the
boy came to a full, realizing sense of himself, on his lips the time-
worn question asked by countless other minds back from that mysterious
land of delirium:

"Where am I?"

Susan sprang to her feet, then dropped on her knees at the bedside.

"In your own bed--honey."

"Is that--Susan?" No wonder he asked the question. Whenever before had
Susan talked like that?

"Sure it's Susan."

"But I can't--see you--or anything. Oh-h!" With a shudder and a
quivering cry the boy flung out his hands, then covered his eyes with
them. "I know, now, I know! It's come--it's come! I am--BLIND!"

"There, there, honey, don't, please don't. You'll break Susan's heart.
An' you're SO much better now."

"Better?"

"Yes. You've been sick--very sick."

"How long?"

"Oh, several weeks. It's October now."

"And I've been blind all that time?"

"Yes."

"But I haven't known I was blind!"

"No."

"I want to go back--I want to go back, where I didn't know--again."

"Nonsense, Keith!" (Susan was beginning to talk more like herself.)
"Go back to be sick? Of course you don't want to go back an' be sick!
Listen!

      Don't you worry, an' don't you fret.
      Somethin' better is comin' yet.
      Somethin' fine! What'll you bet?
      It's jest the thing you're wantin' ter get!

Come, come! We're goin' to have you up an' out in no time, now, boy!"

"I don't want to be up and out. I'm blind, Susan."

"An' there's your dad. He'll be mighty glad to know you're better.
I'll call him."

"No, no, Susan--don't! Don't call him. He won't want to see me. Nobody
will want to see me now. I'm blind, Susan--blind!"

"Shucks! Everybody will want to see you, so's to see how splendid you
are, even if you are blind. Now don't talk any more--please don't;
there's a good boy. You're gettin' yourself all worked up, an' then,
oh, my, how that nurse will scold!"

"I shan't be splendid," moaned the boy. "I shan't be anything, now. I
shan't be Jerry or Ned or dad. I shall be just ME. And I'll be pointed
at everywhere; and they'll whisper and look and stare, and say, 'He's
blind--he's blind--he's blind.' I tell you, Susan, I can't stand it. I
can't--I can't! I want to go back. I want to go back to where I
didn't--KNOW!"

The nurse came in then, and of course Susan was banished in disgrace.
Of course, too, Keith was almost in hysterics, and his fever had gone
away up again. He still talked in a high, shrill voice, and still
thrashed his arms wildly about, till the little white powder the nurse
gave him got in its blessed work. And then he slept.

Keith was entirely conscious the next day when Susan came in to sit
with him while the nurse took her rest. But it was a very different
Keith. It was a weary, spent, nerveless Keith that lay back on the
pillow with scarcely so much as the flutter of an eyelid to show life.

"Is there anything I can get you, Keith?" she asked, when a long-drawn
sigh convinced her that he was awake.

Only a faint shake of the head answered her.

"The doctor says you're lots better, Keith."

There was no sort of reply to this; and for another long minute Susan
sat tense and motionless, watching the boy's face. Then, with almost a
guilty look over her shoulder, she stammered:

"Keith, I don't want you to talk to me, but I do wish you'd just SPEAK
to me."

But Keith only shook his head again faintly and turned his face away
to the wall.

By and by the nurse came in, and Susan left the room. She went
straight to the kitchen, and she did not so much as look toward
Keith's father whom she met in the hall. In the kitchen Susan caught
up a cloth and vigorously began to polish a brass faucet. The faucet
was already a marvel of brightness; but perhaps Susan could not see
that. One cannot always see clearly--through tears.

Keith was like this every day after that, when Susan came in to sit
with him--silent, listless, seemingly devoid of life. Yet the doctor
declared that physically the boy was practically well. And the nurse
was going at the end of the week.

On the last day of the nurse's stay, Susan accosted her in the hall
somewhat abruptly.

"Is it true that by an' by there could be an operator on that boy's
eyes?"

"Oper--er--oh, operation! Yes, there might be, if he could only get
strong enough to stand it. But it might not be successful, even then."

"But there's a chance?"

"Yes, there's a chance."

"I s'pose it--it would be mighty expulsive, though."

"Expulsive?" The young woman frowned slightly; then suddenly she
smiled. "Oh! Oh, yes, I--I'm afraid it would--er--cost a good deal of
money," she nodded over her shoulder as she went on into Keith's room.

That evening Susan sought her employer in the studio. Daniel Burton
spent all his waking hours in the studio now. The woods and fields
were nothing but a barren desert of loneliness to Daniel Burton--
without Keith.

The very poise of Susan's head spelt aggressive determination as she
entered the studio; and Daniel Burton shifted uneasily in his chair as
he faced her. Nor did he fail to note that she carried some folded
papers in her hand.

"Yes, yes, Susan, I know. Those bills are due, and past due," he cried
nervously, before Susan could speak. "And I hoped to have the money,
both for them and for your wages, long before this. But---"

Susan stopped him short with an imperative gesture.

"T ain't bills, Mr. Burton, an't ain't wages. It's--it's somethin'
else. Somethin' very importune." There was a subdued excitement in
Susan's face and manner that was puzzling, yet most promising.

Unconsciously Daniel Burton sat a little straighter and lifted his
chin--though his eyes were smiling.

"Something else?"

"Yes. It's--poetry."

"Oh, SUSAN!" It was as if a bubble had been pricked, leaving nothing
but empty air.

"But you don't know--you don't understand, yet," pleaded Susan,
unerringly reading the disappointment in her employer's face. "It's to
sell--to get some money, you know, for the operator on the poor lamb's
eyes. I--I wanted to help, some way. An' this is REAL poetry--truly it
is!--not the immaculate kind that I jest dash off! I've worked an'
worked over this, an' I'm jest sure it'll sell, It's GOT to sell, Mr.
Burton. We've jest got to have that money. An' now, I--I want to read
'em to you. Can't I, please?"

And this from Susan--this palpitating, pleading "please"! Daniel
Burton, with a helpless gesture that expressed embarrassment, dismay,
bewilderment, and resignation, threw up both hands and settled back in
his chair.

"Why, of--of course, Susan, read them," he muttered as clearly as he
could, considering the tightness that had come into his throat.

And Susan read this:

    SPRING

      Oh, gentle Spring, I love thy rills,
      I love thy wooden, rocky rills,
      I love thy budsome beauty.
      But, oh, I hate o'er anything,
      Thy mud an' slush, oh, gentle Spring,
      When rubbers are a duty.

"That's the shortest--the other is longer," explained Susan, still the
extraordinary, palpitating Susan, with the shining, pleading eyes.

"Yes, go on." Daniel Burton had to clear his throat before he could
say even those two short words.

"I called this 'Them Things That Plague,'" said Susan. "An' it's
really true, too. Don't you know? Things DO plague worse nights, when
you can't sleep. An' you get to thinkin' an' thinkin'. Well, that's
what made me write this." And she began to read:

    THEM THINGS THAT PLAGUE

      They come at night, them things that plague,
      An' gather round my bed.
      They cluster thick about the foot,
      An' lean on top the head.

      They like the dark, them things that plague,
      For then they can be great,
      They loom like doom from out the gloom,
      An' shriek: "I am your Fate!"

      But, after all, them things that plague
      Are cowards--Say not you?--
      To strike a man when he is down,
      An' in the darkness, too.

      For if you'll watch them things that plague,
      Till comin' of the dawn,
      You'll find, when once you're on your feet,
      Them things that plague--are gone!

"There, ain't that true--every word of it?" she demanded. "An' there
ain't hardly any poem license in it, too. I think they're a ways lots
better when there ain't; but sometimes, of course, you jest have to
use it. There! an' now I've read 'em both to you--an' how much do you
s'pose I can get for 'em--the two of 'em, either singly or doubly?"
Susan was still breathless, still shining-eyed--a strange, exotic
Susan, that Daniel Burton had never seen before. "I've heard that
writers--some writers--get lots of money, Mr. Burton, an' I can write
more--lots more. Why, when I get to goin' they jest come
autocratically--poems do--without any thinkin' at all; an'--But how
much DO you think I ought to get?"

"Get? Good Heavens woman!" Daniel Burton was on his feet now trying to
shake off the conflicting emotions that were all but paralyzing him.
"Why, you can't get anything for those da---" Just in time he pulled
himself up. At that moment, too, he saw Susan's face. He sat down
limply.

"Susan." He cleared his throat and began again. He tried to speak
clearly, judiciously, kindly. "Susan, I'm afraid--that is, I'm not
sure--Oh, hang it all, woman"--he was on his feet now--"send them, if
you want to--but don't blame me for the consequences." And with a
gesture, as of flinging the whole thing far from him, he turned his
back and walked away.

"You mean--you don't think I can get hardly anything for 'em?" An
extraordinarily meek, fearful Susan asked the question.

Only a shrug of the back-turned shoulders answered her.

"But, Mr. Burton, we--we've got to have the money for that operator;
an', anyhow, I--I mean to try." With a quick indrawing of her breath
she turned abruptly and left the studio.

That evening, in her own room, Susan pored over the two inexpensive
magazines that came to the house. She was searching for poems and for
addresses.

As she worked she began to look more cheerful. Both the magazines
published poems, and if they published one poem they would another, of
course, especially if the poem were a better one--and Susan could not
help feeling that they were better (those poems of hers) than almost
any she saw there in print before her. There was some SENSE to her
poems, while those others--why, some of them didn't mean anything, not
anything!--and they didn't even rhyme!

With real hope and courage, therefore, Susan laboriously copied off
the addresses of the two magazines, directed two envelopes, and set
herself to writing the first of her two letters. That done, she copied
the letter, word for word--except for the title of the poem submitted.

It was a long letter. Susan told first of Keith and his misfortune,
and the imperative need of money for the operation. Then she told
something of herself, and of her habit of turning everything into
rhyme; for she felt it due to them, she said, that they know something
of the person with whom they were dealing. She touched again on the
poverty of the household, and let it plainly be seen that she had high
hopes of the money these poems were going to bring. She did not set a
price. She would leave that to their own indiscretion, she said in
closing.

It was midnight before Susan had copied this letter and prepared the
two manuscripts for mailing. Then, tired, but happy, she went to bed.

It was the next day that the nurse went, and that Mrs. Colebrook came.

The doctor said that Keith might be dressed now, any day--that he
should be dressed, in fact, and begin to take some exercise. He had
already sat up in a chair every day for a week--and he was in no
further need of medicine, except a tonic to build him up. In fact, all
efforts now should be turned toward building him up, the doctor said.
That was what he needed.

All this the nurse mentioned to Mr. Burton and to Susan, as she was
leaving. She went away at two o'clock, and Mrs. Colebrook was not to
come until half-past five. At one minute past two Susan crept to the
door of Keith's room and pushed it open softly. The boy, his face to
the wall, lay motionless. But he was not asleep. Susan knew that, for
she had heard his voice not five minutes before, bidding the nurse
good-bye. For one brief moment Susan hesitated. Then, briskly, she
stepped into the room with a cheery:

"Well, Keith, here we are, just ourselves together. The nurse is gone
an' I am on--how do you like the weather?"

"Yes, I know, she said she was going." The boy spoke listlessly,
wearily, without turning his head.

"What do you say to gettin' up?"

Keith stirred restlessly.

"I was up this morning."

"Ho!" Susan tossed her head disdainfully. "I don't mean THAT way. I
mean up--really up with your clothes on."

The boy shook his head again.

"I couldn't. I--I'm too tired."

"Nonsense! A great boy like you bein' too tired to get up! Why Keith,
it'll do you good. You'll feel lots better when you're up an' dressed
like folks again."

The boy gave a sudden cry.

"That's just it, Susan. Don't you see? I'll never be--like folks
again."

"Nonsense! Jest as if a little thing like bein' blind was goin' to
keep you from bein' like folks again!" Susan was speaking very loudly,
very cheerfully--though with first one hand, then the other, she was
brushing away the hot tears that were rolling down her cheeks. "Why,
Keith, you're goin' to be better than folks--jest common folks. You're
goin' to do the most wonderful things that---"

"But I can't--I'm blind, I tell you!" cut in the boy. "I can't do--
anything, now."

"But you can, an' you're goin' to," insisted Susan again. "You jest
wait till I tell you; an' it's because you ARE blind that it's goin'
to be so wonderful. But you can't do it jest lyin' abed there in that
lazy fashion. Come, I'm goin' to get your clothes an' put 'em right on
this chair here by the bed; then I'm goin' to give you twenty minutes
to get into 'em. I shan't give you but fifteen tomorrow." Susan was
moving swiftly around the room now, opening closet doors and bureau
drawers.

"No, no, Susan, I can't get up," moaned the boy turning his face back
to the wall. "I can't--I can't!"

"Yes, you can. Now, listen. They're all here, everything you need, on
these two chairs by the bed."

"But how can I dress me when I can't see a thing?"

"You can feel, can't you?"

"Y-yes. But feeling isn't seeing. You don't KNOW."

Susan gave a sudden laugh--she would have told you it was a laugh--but
it sounded more like a sob.

"But I do know, an' that's the funny part of it, Keith," she cried.
"Listen! What do you s'pose your poor old Susan's been doin'? You'd
never guess in a million years, so I'm goin' to tell you. For the last
three mornin's she's tied up her eyes with a handkerchief an' then
DRESSED herself, jest to make sure it COULD be done, you know."

"Susan, did you, really?" For the first time a faint trace of interest
came into the boy's face.

"Sure I did! An' Keith, it was great fun, really, jest to see how
smart I could be, doin' it. An' I timed myself, too. It took me
twenty-five minutes the first time. Dear, dear, but I was clumsy! But
I can do it lots quicker now, though I don't believe I'll ever do it
as quick as you will."

"Do you think I could do it, really?"

"I know you could."

"I could try," faltered Keith dubiously.

"You ain't goin' to TRY, you're goin' to DO it," declared Susan. "Now,
listen. I'm goin' out, but in jest twenty minutes I'm comin' back, an'
I shall expect to find you all dressed. I--I shall be ashamed of you
if you ain't." And without another glance at the boy, and before he
could possibly protest, Susan hurried from the room.

Her head was still high, and her voice still determinedly clear--but
in the hall outside the bedroom, Susan burst into such a storm of sobs
that she had to hurry to the kitchen and shut herself in the pantry
lest they be heard.

Later, when she had scornfully lashed herself into calmness, she came
out into the kitchen and looked at the clock.

"An' I've been in there five minutes, I'll bet ye, over that fool cry
in'," she stormed hotly to herself. "Great one, I am, to take care of
that boy, if I can't control myself better than this!"

At the end of what she deemed to be twenty minutes, and after a
fruitless "puttering" about the kitchen, Susan marched determinedly
upstairs to Keith's room. At the door she did hesitate a breathless
minute, then, resolutely, she pushed it open.

The boy, fully dressed, stood by the bed. His face was alight, almost
eager.

"I did it--I did it, Susan! And if it hasn't been more than twenty
minutes, I did it sooner than you!"

Susan tried to speak; but the tears were again chasing each other down
her cheeks, and her face was working with emotion.

"Susan!" The boy put out his hand gropingly, turning his head with the
pitiful uncertainty of the blind. "Susan, you are there, aren't you?"

Susan caught her breath chokingly, and strode into the room with a
brisk clatter.

"Here? Sure I'm here--but so dumb with amazement an' admiration that I
couldn't open my head--to see you standin' there all dressed like
that! What did I tell you? I knew you could do it. Now, come, let's go
see dad." She was at his side now, her arm linked into his.

But the boy drew back.

"No, no, Susan, not there. He--he wouldn't like it. Truly, he--he
doesn't want to see me. You know he--he doesn't like to see
disagreeable things."

"'Disagreeable things,' indeed!" exploded Susan, her features working
again. "Well, I guess if he calls it disagreeable to see his son
dressed up an' walkin' around--"

But Keith interrupted her once more, with an even stronger protest,
and Susan was forced to content herself with leading her charge out on
to the broad veranda that ran across the entire front of the house.
There they walked back and forth, back and forth.

She was glad, afterward, that this was all she did, for at the far end
of the veranda Daniel Burton stepped out from a door, and stood for a
moment watching them. But it was for only a moment. And when she
begged mutely for him to come forward and speak, he shook his head
fiercely, covered his eyes with his hand, and plunged back into the
house.

"What was that, Susan? What was that?" demanded the boy.

"Nothin', child, nothin', only a door shuttin' somewhere, or a
window."

At that moment a girl's voice caroled shrilly from the street.

"Hullo, Keith, how do you do? We're awfully glad to see you out
again."

The boy started violently, but did not turn his head--except to Susan.

"Susan, I--I'm tired. I want to go in now," he begged a little wildly,
under his breath.

"Keith, it's Mazie--Mazie and Dorothy," caroled the high-pitched voice
again.

But Keith, with a tug so imperative that Susan had no choice but to
obey, turned his head quite away as he groped for the door to go in.

In the hall he drew a choking breath.

"Susan, I don't want to go out there to walk any more--NOT ANY MORE! I
don't want to go anywhere where anybody'll see me."

"Shucks!" Susan's voice was harshly unsteady again. "See you, indeed!
Why, we're goin' to be so proud of you we'll want the whole world to
see you.

      You jest wait
      An' see the fate
      That I've cut out for you.
      We'll be so proud
      We'll laugh aloud,
      An' you'll be laughin', too!

I made that up last night when I laid awake thinkin' of all the fine
things we was goin' to have you do."

But Keith only shook his head again and complained of feeling, oh, so
tired. And Susan, looking at his pale, constrained face, did not quote
any more poetry to him, or talk about the glorious future in store for
him. She led him to the easiest chair in his room and made him as
comfortable as she could. Then she went downstairs and shut herself in
the pantry--until she could stop her "fool cryin' over nothin'."




CHAPTER VIII

AUNT NETTIE MEETS HER MATCH


Mrs. Nettie Colebrook came at half-past five. She was a small,
nervous-looking woman with pale-blue eyes and pale-yellow hair. She
greeted her brother with a burst of tears.

"Oh, Daniel, Daniel, how can you stand it--how can you stand it!" she
cried, throwing herself upon the man's somewhat unresponsive shoulder.

"There, there, Nettie, control yourself, do!" besought the man
uncomfortably, trying to withdraw himself from the clinging arms.

"But how CAN you stand it!--your only son--blind!" wailed Mrs.
Colebrook, with a fresh burst of sobs.

"I notice some things have to be stood," observed Susan grimly. Susan,
with Mrs. Colebrook's traveling-bag in her hand, was waiting with
obvious impatience to escort her visitor upstairs to her room.

Susan's terse comment accomplished what Daniel Burton's admonition had
been quite powerless to bring about. Mrs. Colebrook stopped sobbing at
once, and drew herself somewhat haughtily erect.

"And, pray, who is this?" she demanded, looking from one to the other.

"Well, 'this' happens to be the hired girl, an' she's got some
biscuits in the oven," explained Susan crisply. "If you'll be so good,
ma'am, I'll show you upstairs to your room."

"Daniel!" appealed Mrs. Colebrook, plainly aghast.

But her brother, with a helpless gesture, had turned away, and Susan,
bag in hand, was already halfway up the stairs. With heightened color
and a muttered "Impertinence!" Mrs. Colebrook turned and followed
Susan to the floor above.

A little way down the hall Susan threw open a door.

"I swept, but I didn't have no time to dust," she announced as she put
down the bag. "There's a duster in that little bag there. Don't lock
the door. Somethin' ails it. If you do you'll have to go out the
window down a ladder. There's towels in the top drawer, an' you'll
have to fill the pitcher every day, 'cause there's a crack an' it
leaks, an' you can't put in the water only to where the crack is. Is
there anything more you want?"

"Thank you. If you'll kindly take me to Master Keith's room, that will
be all that I require," answered Mrs. Colebrook frigidly, as she
unpinned her hat and laid that on top of her coat on the bed.

"All right, ma'am. He's a whole lot better. He's been up an' dressed
to-day, but he's gone back to bed now. His room is right down here,
jest across the hall," finished Susan, throwing wide the door.

There was a choking cry, a swift rush of feet, then Mrs. Colebrook, on
her knees, was sobbing at the bedside.

"Oh, Keithie, Keithie, my poor blind boy! What will you do? How will
you ever live? Never to see again, never to see again! Oh, my poor
boy, my poor blind boy!"

Susan, at the door, flung both hands above her head, then plunged down
the stairs.

"Fool! FOOL! FOOL!" she snarled at the biscuits in the oven. "Don't
you know ANYTHING?" Yet the biscuits in the oven were puffing up and
browning beautifully, as the best of biscuits should.

When Susan's strident call for supper rang through the hall, Mrs.
Colebrook was with her brother in the studio. She had been bemoaning
and bewailing the cruel fate that had overtaken "that dear boy," and
had just asked for the seventh time how he could stand it, when from
the hall below came:

     "Supper's ready, supper's ready,
      Hurry up or you'll be late.
      Then you'll sure be cross an' heady,
      If there's nothin' left to ate."

"Daniel, what in the world is the meaning of that?" she interrupted
sharply.

"That? Oh, that is Susan's--er--supper bell," shrugged the man, with a
little uneasy gesture.

"You mean that you've heard it before?--that that is her usual method
of summoning you to your meals?"

"Y-yes, when she's good-natured," returned the man, with a still more
uneasy shifting of his position. "Come, shall we go down?"

"DANIEL! And you stand it?"

"Oh, come, come! You don't understand--conditions here. Besides, I've
tried to stop it."

"TRIED to stop it!"

"Yes. Oh, well, try yourself, if you think it's so easy. I give you my
full and free permission. Try it."

"TRY it! I shan't TRY anything of the sort. I shall STOP it."

"Humph!" shrugged the man. "Oh, very well, then. Suppose we go down."

"But what does that poor little blind boy eat? How can he eat--
anything?"

"Why, I--I don't know." The man gave an irritably helpless gesture.
"The nurse--she used to--You'll have to ask Susan. She'll know."

"Susan! That impossible woman! Daniel, how DO you stand her?"

Daniel Burton shrugged his shoulders again. Then suddenly he gave a
short, grim laugh.

"I notice there are some things that have to be stood," he observed,
so exactly in imitation of Susan that it was a pity only Mrs. Nettie
Colebrook's unappreciative ears got the benefit of it.

In the dining-room a disapproving Susan stood by the table.

"I thought you wasn't never comin'. The hash is gettin' cold."

Mrs. Colebrook gasped audibly.

"Yes, yes, I know," murmured Mr. Burton conciliatingly. "But we're
here now, Susan."

"What will Master Keith have for his supper?" questioned Mrs.
Colebrook, lifting her chin a little.

"He's already had his supper, ma'am. I took it up myself."

"What was it?" Mrs. Colebrook asked the question haughtily,
imperiously.

Susan's eyes grew cold like steel.

"It was what he asked for, ma'am, an' he's ate it. Do you want your
tea strong or weak, ma'am?"

Mrs. Colebrook bit her lip.

"I'll not take any tea at all," she said coldly. "And, Susan!"

"Yes, ma'am." Susan turned, her hand on the doorknob.

"Hereafter I will take up Master Keith's meals myself. He is in my
charge now."

There was no reply--in words. But the dining-room door after Susan
shut with a short, crisp snap.

After supper Mrs. Colebrook went out into the kitchen.

"You may prepare oatmeal and dry toast and a glass of milk for Master
Keith to-morrow morning, Susan. I will take them up myself."

"He won't eat 'em. He don't like 'em--not none of them things."

"I think he will if I tell him to. At all events, they are what he
should eat, and you may prepare them as I said."

"Very well, ma'am."

Susan's lips came together in a thin, white line, and Mrs. Colebrook
left the kitchen.

Keith did not eat his toast and oatmeal the next morning, though his
aunt sat on the edge of the bed, called him her poor, afflicted,
darling boy, and attempted to feed him herself with a spoon.

Keith turned his face to the wall and said he didn't want any
breakfast. Whereupon his aunt sighed, and stroked his head; and Keith
hated to have his head stroked, as Susan could have told her.

"Of course, you don't want any breakfast, you poor, sightless lamb,"
she moaned. "And I don't blame you. Oh, Keithie, Keithie, when I see
you lying there like that, with your poor useless eyes--! But you must
eat, dear, you must eat. Now, come, just a weeny, teeny mouthful to
please auntie!"

But Keith turned his face even more determinedly to the wall, and
moved his limbs under the bed clothes in a motion very much like a
kick. He would have nothing whatever to do with the "weeny, teeny
mouthfuls," not even to please auntie. And after a vain attempt to
remove his tortured head, entirely away from those gently stroking
ringers, he said he guessed he would get up and be dressed.

"Oh, Keithie, are you well enough, dear? Are you sure you are strong
enough? I'm sure you must be ill this morning. You haven't eaten a bit
of breakfast. And if anything should happen to you when you were in MY
care--"

"Of course I'm well enough," insisted the boy irritably.

"Then I'll get your clothes, dear, and help you dress, if you will be
careful not to overdo."

"I don't want any help."

"Why, Keithie, you'll HAVE to have some one help you. How do you
suppose your poor blind eyes are going to let you dress yourself all
alone, when you can't see a thing? Why, dear child, you'll have to
have help now about everything you do. Now I'll get your clothes.
Where are they, dear? In this closet?"

"I don't know. I don't want 'em. I--I've decided I don't want to get
up, after all."

"You ARE too tired, then?"

"Yes, I'm too tired." And Keith, with another spasmodic jerk under the
bedclothes, turned his face to the wall again.

"All right, dear, you shan't. That's the better way, I think myself,"
sighed his aunt. "I wouldn't have you overtax yourself for the world.
Now isn't there anything, ANYTHING I can do for you?"

And Keith said no, not a thing, not a single thing. And his face was
still to the wall.

"Then if you're all right, absolutely all right, I'll go out to walk
and get a little fresh air. Now don't move. Don't stir. TRY to go to
sleep if you can. And if you want anything, just ring. I'll put this
little bell right by your hand on the bed; and you must ring if you
want anything, ANYTHING. Then Susan will come and get it for you.
There, the bell's right here. See? Oh, no, no, you CAN'T see!" she
broke off suddenly, with a wailing sob. "Why will I keep talking to
you as if you could?"

"Well, I wish you WOULD talk to me as if I could see," stormed Keith
passionately, sitting upright in bed and flinging out his arms. "I
tell you I don't want to be different! It's because I AM different
that I am so---"

But his aunt, aghast, interrupted him, and pushed him back.

"Oh, Keithie, darling, lie down! You mustn't thrash yourself around
like that," she remonstrated. "Why, you'll make yourself ill. There,
that's better. Now go to sleep. I'm going out before you can talk any
more, and get yourself all worked up again," she finished, hurrying
out of the room with the breakfast tray.

A little later in the kitchen she faced Susan a bit haughtily.

"Master Keith is going to sleep," she said, putting down the breakfast
tray. "I have left a bell within reach of his hand, and he will call
you if he wants anything. I am going out to get a little air."

"All right, ma'am." Susan kept right on with the dish she was drying.

"You are sure you can hear the bell?"

"Oh, yes, my hearin' ain't repaired in the least, ma'am." Susan turned
her back and picked up another dish. Plainly, for Susan, the matter
was closed.

Mrs. Colebrook, after a vexed biting of her lip and a frowning glance
toward Susan's substantial back, shrugged her shoulders and left the
kitchen. A minute later, still hatless, she crossed the yard and
entered the McGuires' side door.

"Take the air, indeed!" muttered Susan, watching from the kitchen
window. "A whole lot of fresh air she'll get in Mis' McGuire's
kitchen!"

With another glance to make sure that Mrs. Nettie Colebrook was safely
behind the McGuires' closed door, Susan crossed the kitchen and lifted
the napkin of the breakfast tray.

"Humph!" she grunted angrily, surveying the almost untouched
breakfast. "I thought as much! But I was ready for you, my lady. Toast
an' oatmeal, indeed!" With another glance over her shoulder at the
McGuire side door Susan strode to the stove and took from the oven a
plate of crisply browned hash and a hot corn muffin. Two minutes
later, with a wonderfully appetizing-looking tray, she tapped at
Keith's door and entered the room.

"Here's your breakfast, boy," she announced cheerily.

"I didn't want any breakfast," came crossly from the bed.

"Of course you didn't want THAT breakfast," scoffed Susan airily; "but
you just look an' see what I'VE brought you!"

Look and see! Susan's dismayed face showed that she fully realized
what she had said, and that she dreaded beyond words its effect on the
blind boy in the bed.

She hesitated, and almost dropped the tray in her consternation. But
the boy turned with a sudden eagerness that put to rout her dismay,
and sent a glow of dazed wonder to her face instead.

"What HAVE you got? Let me see." He was sitting up now. "Hash--and--
johnny-cake!" he crowed, as she set the tray before him, and he
dropped his fingers lightly on the contents of the tray. "And don't
they smell good! I don't know--I guess I am hungry, after all."

"Of course you're hungry!" Susan's voice was harsh, and she was
fiercely brushing back the tears. "Now, eat it quick, or I'll be sick!
Jest think what'll happen to Susan if that blessed aunt of yours comes
an' finds me feedin' you red-flannel hash an' johnny-cake! Now I'll be
up in ten minutes for the tray. See that you eat it up--every scrap,"
she admonished him, as she left the room.

Susan had found by experience that Keith ate much better when alone.
She was not surprised, therefore, though she was very much pleased--at
sight of the empty plates awaiting her when she went up for the tray
at the end of the ten minutes.

"An' now what do you say to gettin' up?" she suggested cheerily,
picking up the tray from the bed and setting it on the table.

"Can I dress myself?"

"Of course you can! What'll you bet you won't do it five minutes
quicker this time, too? I'll get your clothes."

Halfway back across the room, clothes in hand, she was brought to a
sudden halt by a peremptory: "What in the world is the meaning of
this?" It was Mrs. Nettie Colebrook in the doorway.

"I'm gettin' Keith's clothes. He's goin' to get up."

"But MASTER Keith said he did not wish to get up."

"Changed his mind, maybe." The terseness of Susan's reply and the
expression on her face showed that the emphasis on the "Master" was
not lost upon her.

"Very well, then, that will do. You may go. I will help him dress."

"I don't want any help," declared Keith.

"Why, Keithie, darling, of course you want help! You forget, dear, you
can't see now, and--"

"Oh, no, I don't forget," cut in Keith bitterly. "You don't let me
forget a minute--not a minute. I don't want to get up now, anyhow.
What's the use of gettin' up? I can't DO anything!" And he fell back
to his old position, with his face to the wall.

"There, there, dear, you are ill and overwrought," cried Mrs.
Colebrook, hastening to the bedside. "It is just as I said, you are
not fit to get up." Then, to Susan, sharply: "You may put Master
Keith's clothes back in the closet. He will not need them to-day."

"No, ma'am, I don't think he will need them--now." Susan's eyes
flashed ominously. But she hung the clothes back in the closet, picked
up the tray, and left the room.

Susan's eyes flashed ominously, indeed, all the rest of the morning,
while she was about her work; and at noon, when she gave the call to
dinner, there was a curious metallic incisiveness in her voice, which
made the call more strident than usual.

It was when Mrs. Colebrook went into the kitchen after dinner for
Keith's tray that she said coldly to Susan:

"Susan, I don't like that absurd doggerel of yours."

"Doggerel?" Plainly Susan was genuinely ignorant of what she meant.

"Yes, that extraordinary dinner call of yours. As I said before, I
don't like it."

There was a moment's dead silence. The first angry flash in Susan's
eyes was followed by a demure smile.

"Don't you? Why, I thought it was real cute, now."

"Well, I don't. You'll kindly not use it any more, Susan," replied
Mrs. Colebrook, with dignity.

Once again there was the briefest of silences, then quietly came
Susan's answer:

"Oh, no, of course not, ma'am. I won't--when I work for you. There,
Mis' Colebrook, here's your tray all ready."

And Mrs. Colebrook, without knowing exactly how it happened, found
herself out in the hall with the tray in her hands.




CHAPTER IX

SUSAN SPEAKS HER MIND


"How's Keith?"

It was Monday morning, and as usual Mrs. McGuire, seeing Susan in the
clothes-yard, had come out, ostensibly to hang out her own clothes, in
reality to visit with Susan while she was hanging out hers.

"About as usual." Susan snapped out the words and a pillow-case with
equal vehemence.

"Is he up an' dressed?"

"I don't know. I hain't seen him this mornin'--but it's safe to say he
ain't."

"But I thought he was well enough to be up an' dressed right along
now."

"He is WELL ENOUGH--or, rather he WAS." Susan snapped open another
pillow-case and hung it on the line with spiteful jabs of two
clothespins.

"Why, Susan, is he worse? You didn't say he was any worse. You said he
was about as usual."

"Well, so he is. That's about as usual. Look a-here, Mis' McGuire,"
flared Susan, turning with fierce suddenness, "wouldn't YOU be worse
if you wasn't allowed to do as much as lift your own hand to your own
head?"

"Why, Susan, what do you mean? What are you talkin' about?"

"I'm talkin' about Keith Burton an' Mis' Nettie Colebrook. I've GOT to
talk about 'em to somebody. I'm that full I shall sunburst if I don't.
She won't let him do a thing for himself--not a thing, that woman
won't!"

"But how can he do anything for himself, with his poor sightless
eyes?" demanded Mrs. McGuire. "I don't think I should complain, Susan
Betts, because that poor boy's got somebody at last to take proper
care of him."

"But it AIN'T takin' proper care of him, not to let him do things for
himself," stormed Susan hotly. "How's he ever goin' to 'mount to
anything--that's what I want to know--if he don't get a chance to
begin to 'mount? All them fellers--them fellers that was blind an'
wrote books an' give lecturin's an' made things--perfectly wonderful
things with their hands--how much do you s'pose they would have done
if they'd had a woman 'round who said, 'Here, let me do it; oh, you
mustn't do that, Keithie, dear!' every time they lifted a hand to
brush away a hair that was ticklin' their nose?"

"Oh, Susan!"

"Well, it's so. Look a-here, listen!" Susan dropped all pretense of
work now, and came close to the fence. She was obviously very much in
earnest. "That boy hain't been dressed but twice since that woman came
a week ago. She won't let him dress himself alone an' now he don't
want to be dressed. Says he's too tired. An' she says, 'Of course,
you're too tired, Keithie, dear!' An' there he lies, day in an' day
out, with his poor sightless eyes turned to the wall. He won't eat a
thing hardly, except what I snuggle up when she's out airin' herself.
He ain't keen on bein' fed with a spoon like a baby. No boy with any
spunk would be."

"But can he feed himself?"

"Of course he can--if he gets a chance! But that ain't all. He don't
want to be told all the time that he's different from other folks. He
can't forget that he's blind, of course, but he wants you to act as if
you forgot it. I know. I've seen him. But she don't forget it a
minute--not a minute. She's always cryin' an' wringin' her hands, an'
sighin', 'Oh, Keithie, Keithie, my poor boy, my poor blind boy!' till
it's enough to make a saint say, 'Gosh!'"

"Well, that's only showin' sympathy, Susan," defended Mrs. McGuire.
"I'm sure she ought not to be blamed for that."

"He don't want sympathy--or, if he does, he hadn't ought to have it."

"Why, Susan Betts, I'm ashamed of you--grudgin' that poor blind boy
the comfort of a little sympathy! My John said yesterday--"

"'T ain't sympathy he needs. Sympathy's a nice, soft little paw that
pats him to sleep. What he needs is a good sharp scratch that will
make him get up an' do somethin'."

"Susan, how can you talk like that?"

"'Cause somebody's got to." Susan's voice was shaking now. Her hands
were clenched so tightly on the fence pickets that the knuckles showed
white with the strain. "Mis' McGuire, there's a chance, maybe, that
that boy can see. There's somethin' they can do to his eyes, if he
gets strong enough to have it done."

"Really? To see again?"

"Maybe. There's a chance. They ain't sure. But they can't even TRY
till he gets well an' strong. An' how's he goin' to get well an'
strong lyin' on that bed, face to the wall? That's what I want to
know!"

"Hm-m, I see," nodded Mrs. McGuire soberly. Then, with a sidewise
glance into Susan's face, she added: "But ain't that likely to cost--
some money?"

"Yes, 't is." Susan went back to her work abruptly. With stern
efficiency she shook out a heavy sheet and hung it up. Stooping, she
picked up another one. But she did not shake out this. With the same
curious abruptness that had characterized her movements a few moments
before, she dropped the sheet back into the basket and came close to
the fence again. "Mis' McGuire, won't you please let me take a copy of
them two women's magazines that you take? That is, they--they do print
poetry, don't they?"

"Why, y-yes, Susan, I guess they do. Thinkin' of sendin' 'em some of
yours?" The question was asked in a derision that was entirely lost on
Susan.

"Yes, to get some money." It was the breathless, palpitating Susan
that Daniel Burton had seen a week ago, and like Daniel Burton on that
occasion, Mrs. McGuire went down now in defeat before it.

"To--to get some money?" she stammered.

"Yes--for Keith's eyes, you know," panted Susan. "An' when I sell
these, I'm goin' to write more--lots more. Only I've got to find a
place, first, of course, to sell 'em. An' I did send 'em off last
week. But they was jest cheap magazines; an' they sent a letter all
printed sayin' as how they regretted very much they couldn't accept
'em. Like enough they didn't have money enough to pay much for 'em,
anyway; but of course they didn't say that right out in so many words.
But, as I said, they wasn't anything but cheap magazines, anyway.
That's why I want yours, jest to get the addressin's of, I mean.
THEY'RE first-class magazines, an' they'll pay me a good price, I'm
sure. They'll have to, to get 'em! Why, Mis' McGuire, I've got to have
the money. There ain't nobody but me TO get it. An' you don't s'pose
we're goin' to let that boy stay blind all his life, do you, jest for
the want of a little money?"

'"A little money'! It'll cost a lot of money, an' you know it, Susan
Betts," cried Mrs. McGuire, stirred into sudden speech. "An' the idea
of you tryin' to EARN it writin' poetry. For that matter, the idea of
your earnin' it, anyway, even if you took your wages."

"Oh, I'd take my wages in a minute, if--" Susan stopped short. Her
face had grown suddenly red. "That is, I--I think I'd rather take the
poetry money, anyway," she finished lamely.

But Mrs. McGuire was not to be so easily deceived.

"Poetry money, indeed!" she scoffed sternly. "Susan Betts, do you know
what I believe? I believe you don't GET any wages. I don't believe
that man pays you a red cent from one week's end to the other. Now
does he? You don't dare to answer!"

Susan drew herself up haughtily. But her face was still very red.

"Certainly I dare to answer, Mis' McGuire, but I don't care to. What
Mr. Burton pays me discerns him an' me an' I don't care to discourse
it in public. If you'll kindly lend me them magazines I asked you for
a minute ago, I'll be very much obliged, an' I'll try to retaliate in
the same way for you some time, if I have anything you want."

"Oh, good lan', Susan Betts, if you ain't the beat of 'em!" ejaculated
Mrs. McGuire. "I'd like to shake you--though you don't deserve a
shakin', I'll admit. You deserve--well, never mind. I'll get the
magazines right away. That's the most I CAN do for you, I s'pose," she
flung over her shoulder, as she hurried into the house.




CHAPTER X

AND NETTIE COLEBROOK SPEAKS HERS


Mrs. Colebrook had been a member of the Burton household a day less
than two weeks when she confronted her brother in the studio with this
terse statement:

"Daniel, either Susan or I leave this house tomorrow morning. You can
choose between us."

"Nonsense, Nettie, don't be a fool," frowned the man. "You know very
well that we need both you and Susan. Susan's a trial, I'll admit, in
a good many ways; but I'll wager you'd find it more of a trial to get
along without her, and try to do her work and yours, too."

"Nobody thought of getting along without SOMEBODY," returned Mrs.
Colebrook, with some dignity. "I merely am asking you to dismiss Susan
and hire somebody else--that is, of course, if you wish me to stay.
Change maids, that's all."

The man made an impatient gesture.

"All, indeed! Very simple, the way you put it. But--see here, Nettie,
this thing you ask is utterly out of the question. You don't
understand matters at all."

"You mean that you don't intend to dismiss Susan?"

"Yes, if you will have it put that way--just that."

"Very well. Since that is your decision I shall have to govern myself
accordingly, of course. I will see you in the morning to say good-
bye." And she turned coldly away.

"What do you mean by that?"

"Why, that I am going home, of course--since you think more of having
that impossible, outrageously impertinent servant girl here than you
do me." Mrs. Colebrook was nearing the door how.

"Shucks! You know better than that! Come, come, if you're having any
trouble with Susan, settle it with the girl herself, won't you? Don't
come to me with it. You KNOW how I dislike anything like this."

At the door Mrs. Colebrook turned back suddenly with aggressive
determination.

"Yes, I do know. You dislike anything that's disagreeable. You always
have, from the time when you used to run upstairs to the attic and let
us make all the explanations to pa and ma when something got lost or
broken. But, see here, Daniel Burton, you've GOT to pay attention to
this. It's your son, and your house, and your maid. And you shall
listen to me."

"Well, well, all right, go ahead," sighed the man despairingly,
throwing himself back in his chair. "What is the trouble? What is it
that Susan does that annoys you so?"

"What does she do? What doesn't she do?" retorted Mrs. Colebrook,
dropping herself wearily into a chair facing her brother. "In the
first place, she's the most wretchedly impertinent creature I ever
dreamed of. It's always 'Keith' instead of 'Master Keith,' and I
expect every day it'll be 'Daniel' and 'Nettie' for you and me. She
shows no sort of respect or deference in her manner or language, and--
well, what are you looking like that for?" she interrupted herself
aggrievedly.

"I was only thinking--or rather I was TRYING to think of Susan--and
deference," murmured the man dryly.

"Yes, that's exactly it," Mrs. Colebrook reproved him severely.
"You're laughing. You've always laughed, I suspect, at her outrageous
behavior, and that's why she's so impossible in every way. Why, Daniel
Burton, I've actually heard her refuse--REFUSE to serve you with
something to eat that you'd ordered."

"Oh, well, well, what if she has? Very likely there was something we
had to eat up instead, to keep it from spoiling. Susan is very
economical, Nettie."

"I dare say--at times, when it suits her to be so, especially if she
can assert her authority over you. Why, Daniel, she's a perfect tyrant
to you, and you know it. She not only tells you what to eat, but what
to wear, and when to wear it--your socks, your underclothes. Why,
Daniel, she actually bosses you!"

"Yes, yes; well, never mind," shrugged the man, a bit irritably.
"We're talking about how she annoys YOU, not me, remember."

"Well, don't you suppose it annoys me to see my own brother so
completely under the sway of this serving-maid? And such a maid!
Daniel, will you tell me where she gets those long words of hers that
she mixes up so absurdly?"

Daniel Burton laughed.

"Susan lived with Professor Hinkley for ten years before she came to
me. The Hinkleys never used words of one or two syllables when they
could find one of five or six that would do just as well. Susan loves
long words."

"So I should judge. And those ridiculous rhymes of hers--did she learn
those, also, from Professor Hinkley?" queried Mrs. Colebrook. "And as
for that atrocious dinner-call of hers, it's a disgrace to any family
--a positive disgrace!"

"Well, well, why don't you stop her doing it, then?" demanded Daniel
Burton, still more irritably. "Go to HER, not me. Tell her not to."

"I have."

The tone of her voice was so fraught with meaning that the man looked
up sharply.

"Well?"

"She said she wouldn't do it--when she worked for me."

Daniel Burton gave a sudden chuckle.

"I can imagine just how she'd say that," he murmured appreciatively.

"Daniel Burton, are you actually going to abet that girl in her
wretched impertinence?" demanded Mrs. Colebrook angrily. "I tell you I
will not stand it! Something has got to be done. Why, she even tries
to interfere with the way I take care of your son--presumes to give me
counsel and advice on the subject, if you please. Dares to criticize
me--ME! Daniel Burton, I tell you I will not stand it. You MUST give
that woman her walking papers. Why, Daniel, I shall begin to think she
has hypnotized you--that you're actually afraid of her!"

Was it the scorn in her voice? Or was it that Daniel Burton's
endurance had snapped at this last straw? Whatever it was, the man
leaped to his feet, threw back his shoulders, and thrust his hands
into his pockets.

"Nettie, look here. Once for all let us settle this matter. I tell you
I cannot dismiss Susan; and I mean what I say when I use the words
'can not.' I literally CAN NOT. To begin with, she's the kindest-
hearted creature in the world, and she's been devotion itself all
these years since--since Keith and I have been alone. But even if I
could set that aside, there's something else I can't overlook. I--I
owe Susan considerable money."

"You owe her--MONEY?"

"Yes, her wages. She has not had them for some time. I must owe her
something like fifty or sixty dollars. You see, we--we have had some
very unusual and very heavy expenses, and I have overdrawn my annuity
--borrowed on it. Susan knew this and insisted on my letting her wages
go on, for the present. More than that, she has refused a better
position with higher wages--I know that. The pictures I had hoped to
sell--"He stopped, tried to go on, failed obviously to control his
voice; then turned away with a gesture more eloquent than any words
could have been.

Mrs. Colebrook stared, frowned, and bit her lip. Nervously she tapped
her foot on the floor as she watched with annoyed eyes her brother
tramping up and down, up and down, the long, narrow room. Then
suddenly her face cleared.

"Oh, well, that's easily remedied, after all." She sprang to her feet
and hurried from the room. Almost immediately she was back--a roll of
bills in her hand. "There, I thought I had enough money to do it," she
announced briskly as she came in. "Now, Daniel, I'LL pay Susan her
back wages."

"Indeed you will not!" The man wheeled sharply, an angry red staining
his cheeks.

"Oh, but Daniel, don't you see?--that'll simplify everything. She'll
be working for ME, then, and I--"

"But I tell you I won't have--" interrupted the man, then stopped
short. Susan herself stood in the doorway.

"I guess likely you was talkin' so loud you didn't hear me call you to
dinner," she was saying. "I've called you two times already. If you
want anything fit to eat you'd better come quick. It ain't gettin' any
fitter, waitin'."

"Susan!" Before Susan could turn away, Mrs. Colebrook detained her
peremptorily." Mr. Burton tells me that he owes you for past wages.
Now--"

"NETTIE!" warned the man sharply.

But with a blithe "Nonsense, Daniel, let me manage this!" Mrs.
Colebrook turned again to Susan. The man, not unlike the little Daniel
of long ago who fled to the attic, shrugged his shoulders with a
gesture of utter irresponsibility, turned his back and walked to the
farther side of the room.

"Susan," began Mrs. Colebrook again, still blithely, but with just a
shade of haughtiness, "my brother tells me your wages are past due;
that he owes you at least fifty dollars. Now I'm going to pay them for
him, Susan. In fact, I'm going to pay you sixty dollars, so as to be
sure to cover it. Will that be quite satisfactory?"

Susan stared frankly.

"You mean ME--take money from you, ma'am,--to pay my back wages?" she
asked.

"Yes."

"But--" Susan paused and threw a quick glance toward the broad back of
the man at the end of the room. Then she turned resolutely to Mrs.
Colebrook, her chin a little higher than usual. "Oh, no, thank you. I
ain't needin' the money, Mis' Colebrook, an' I'd ruther wait for Mr.
Burton, anyway," she finished cheerfully, as she turned to go.

"Nonsense, Susan, of COURSE you need the money. Everybody can make use
of a little money, I guess. Surely, there's SOMETHING you want."

With her hand almost on the doorknob Susan suddenly whisked about, her
face alight.

"Oh, yes, yes, I forgot, Mis' Colebrook," she cried eagerly. "There is
somethin' I want; an' I'll take it, please, an' thank you kindly."

"There, that's better," nodded Mrs. Colebrook. "And I've got it right
here, so you see you don't have to wait, even a minute," she smiled,
holding out the roll of bills.

Still with the eager light on her face, Susan reached for the money.

"Thank you, oh, thank you! An' it will go quite a ways, won't it?--for
Keith, I mean. The--" But with sudden sharpness Mrs. Colebrook
interrupted her.

"Susan, how many times have I told you to speak of my nephew as
'Master Keith'? Furthermore, I shall have to remind you once more that
you are trying to interfere altogether too much in his care. In fact,
Susan, I may as well speak plainly. For some time past you have failed
to give satisfaction. You are paid in full now, I believe, with some
to spare, perhaps. You may work the week out. After that we shall no
longer require your services."

The man at the end of the room wheeled sharply and half started to
come forward. Then, with his habitual helpless gesture, he turned back
to his old position.

Susan, her face eloquent with amazed unbelief, turned from one to the
other.

"You mean--you don't mean--Mis' Colebrook, be you tryin' to--dismissal
me?"

Mrs. Colebrook flushed and bit her lip.

"I am dismissing you--yes."

Once more Susan, in dazed unbelief, looked from one to the other. Her
eyes dwelt longest on the figure of the man at the end of the room.

"Mr. Burton, do you want me to go?" she asked at last.

The man turned irritably, with a shrug, and a swift outflinging of his
hands.

"Of course, I don't want you to go, Susan. But what can I do? I have
no money to pay you, as you know very well. I have no right to keep
you--of course--I should advise you to go." And he turned away again.

Susan's face cleared.

"Pooh! Oh, that's all right then," she answered pleasantly. "Mis'
Colebrook, I'm sorry to be troublin' you, but I shall have to give
back that 'ere notice. I ain't goin'."

Once again Mrs. Colebrook flushed and bit her lip.

"That will do, Susan. You forget. You're not working for Mr. Burton
now. You're working for me."

"For YOU?"

"Certainly. Didn't I just pay you your wages for some weeks past?"

Susan's tight clutch on the roll of bills loosened so abruptly that
the money fell to the floor. But at once Susan stooped and picked it
up. The next moment she had crossed the room and thrust the money into
Mrs. Colebrook's astonished fingers.

"I don't want your money, Mis' Colebrook--not on them terms, even for
Keith. I know I hain't earned any the other way, yet, but I hain't
tried all the magazines. There's more--lots more." Her voice faltered,
and almost broke. "I'll do it yet some way, you see if I don't. But I
won't take this. Why, Mis' Colebrook, do you think I'd leave NOW, with
that poor boy blind, an' his father so wrought up he don't have even
his extraordinary common sense about his flannels an' socks an' what
to eat, an' no money to pay the bills with, either? An' him bein'
pestered the life out of him with them intermittent, dunnin' grocers
an' milkmen? Well, I guess not! You couldn't hire me to go, Mis'
Colebrook."

"Daniel, are you going to stand there and permit me to be talked to
like this?" appealed Mrs. Colebrook.

"What can I do?" (Was there a ghost of a twinkle in Daniel Burton's
eyes as he turned with a shrug and a lift of his eyebrows?) "If YOU
haven't the money to hire her--" But Mrs. Colebrook, with an indignant
toss of her head, had left the room.

"Mr. Burton!" Before the man could speak Susan had the floor again.
"Can't you do somethin', sir? Can't you?"

"Do something, Susan?" frowned the man.

"Yes, with your sister," urged Susan. "I don't mean because she's so
haughty an' impious. I can stand that. It's about Keith I'm talkin'
about. Mr. Burton, Keith won't never get well, never, so's he can have
that operator on his eyes, unless he takes some exercise an' gets his
strength back. The nurse an' the doctor--they both said he wouldn't."

"Yes, yes, I know, Susan," fumed the man impatiently, beginning to
pace up and down the room. "And that's just what we're trying to do--
get his strength back."

"But he ain't--he won't--he can't," choked Susan feverishly. "Mr.
Burton, I KNOW you don't want to talk about it, but you've got to. I'm
all Keith's got to look out for him." The father of Keith gave an
inarticulate gasp, but Susan plunged on unheeding. "An' he'll never
get well if he ain't let to get up an' stand an' walk an' eat an' sit
down himself. But Mis' Colebrook won't let him. She won't let him do
anything. She keeps sayin', 'Don't do it, oh, don't do it,' all the
time,--when she ought to say, 'Do it, do it, do it!' Mr. Burton,
cryin' an' wringin' your hands an' moanin', 'Oh, Keithie, darling!'
won't make a boy grow red blood an' make you feel so fine you want to
knock a man down! Mr. Burton, I want you to tell that woman to let me
take care of that boy for jest one week--ONE WEEK, an' her not to come
near him with her snivelin' an'--"

But Daniel Burton, with two hands upflung, and a head that ducked as
if before an oncoming blow, had rushed from the room. For the second
time that day Daniel Burton had fled--to the attic.




CHAPTER XI

NOT PATS BUT SCRATCHES


Mrs. Colebrook went home the next day. She wore the air of an injured
martyr at breakfast. She told her brother that, of course, if he
preferred to have an ignorant servant girl take care of his poor
afflicted son, she had nothing to say; but that certainly he could not
expect HER to stay, too, especially after being insulted as she had
been.

Daniel Burton had remonstrated feebly, shrugged his shoulders and
flung his arms about in his usual gestures of impotent annoyance.

Susan, in the kitchen, went doggedly about her work, singing,
meanwhile, what Keith called her "mad" song. When Susan was
particularly "worked up" over something, "jest b'ilin' inside" as she
expressed it, she always sang this song--her own composition, to the
tune of "When Johnny Comes Marching Home":

     "I've taken my worries, an' taken my woes,
      I have, I have,
      An' shut 'em up where nobody knows,
      I have, I have.
      I chucked 'em down, that's what I did,
      An' now I'm sittin' upon the lid,
      An' we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marchin' home.
      I'm sittin' upon the lid, I am,
      Hurrah! Hurrah!

      I'm tryin' to be a little lamb,
      Hurrah! Hurrah!
      But I'm feelin' more like a great big slam
      Than a nice little peaceful woolly lamb,
      But we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marchin' home."

When Daniel Burton, this morning, therefore, heard Susan singing this
song, he was in no doubt as to Susan's state of mind--a fact which
certainly did not add to his own serenity.

Upstairs, Keith, wearily indifferent as to everything that was taking
place about him, lay motionless as usual, his face turned toward the
wall.

And at ten o'clock Mrs. Colebrook went. Five minutes later Daniel
Burton entered the kitchen--a proceeding so extraordinary that Susan
broke off her song in the middle of a "Hurrah" and grew actually pale.

"What is it?--KEITH? Is anything the matter with Keith?" she faltered.

Ignoring her question the man strode into the room.

"Well, Susan, this time you've done it," he ejaculated tersely.

"Done it--to Keith--ME? Why, Mr. Burton, what do you mean? Is Keith--
worse?" chattered Susan, with dry lips. "It was only a little hash I
took up. He simply won't eat that oatmeal stuff, an'--"

"No, no, I don't mean the hash," interrupted the man irritably. "Keith
is all right--that is, he is just as he has been. It's my sister, Mrs.
Colebrook. She's gone."

"Gone--for good?"

"Yes, she's gone home."

"Glory be!" The color came back to Susan's face in a flood, and frank
delight chased the terror from her eyes. "Now we can do somethin'
worthwhile."

"I reckon you'll find you have to do something, Susan. You know very
well I can't afford to hire a nurse--now."

"I don't want one."

"But there's all the other work, too."

"Work! Why, Mr. Burton, I won't mind a little work if I can have that
blessed boy all to myself with no one to feed him oatmeal mush with a
spoon, an' snivel over him. You jest wait. The first elemental thing
is to learn him self-defiance, so he can do things for himself. Then
he'll begin to get his health an' strength for the operator."

"You're forgetting the money, Susan. It costs money for that."

Susan's face fell.

"Yes, sir, I know." She hesitated, then went on, her color deepening.
"An' I hain't sold--none o' them poems yet. But there's other
magazines, a whole lot of 'em, that I hain't tried. Somebody's sure to
take 'em some time."

"I'm glad your courage is still good, Susan; but I'm afraid the dear
public is going to appreciate your poems about the way it does--my
pictures," shrugged the man bitterly, as he turned and left the room.

Not waiting to finish setting her kitchen in order, Susan ran up the
back stairs to Keith's room.

     "Well, your aunt is gone, an' I'm on,
      An' here we are together.
      We'll chuck our worries into pawn,
      An' how do you like the weather?"

she greeted him gayly. "How about gettin' up? Come on! Such a lazy
boy! Here it is away in the middle of the forenoon, an' you abed like
this!"

But it was not to be so easy this time. Keith was not to be cajoled
into getting up and dressing himself even to beat Susan's record.
Steadfastly he resisted all efforts to stir him into interest or
action; and a dismayed, disappointed Susan had to go downstairs in
acknowledged defeat.

"But, land's sake, what could you expect?" she muttered to herself,
after a sorrowful meditation before the kitchen fire. "You can't put a
backbone into a jellyfish by jest showin' him the bone--an' that's
what his aunt has made him--a flappy, transparallel jellyfish. Drat
her! But I ain't goin' to give up. Not much I ain't!" And Susan
attacked the little kitchen stove with a vigor that would have brought
terror to the clinkers of a furnace fire pot.

Susan did not attempt again that day to get Keith up and dressed; and
she gave him his favorite "pop-overs" for supper with a running fire
of merry talk and jingles that contained never a reference to the
unpleasant habit of putting on clothes, But the next morning, after
she had given Keith his breakfast (not of toast and oatmeal) she
suggested blithely that he get up and be dressed. When he refused she
tried coaxing, mildly, then more strenuously. When this failed she
tried to sting his pride by telling him she did not believe he could
get up now, anyhow, and dress himself.

"All right, Susan, let it go that I can't. I don't want to, anyhow,"
sighed the boy with impatient weariness. "Say, can't you let a fellow
alone?"

Susan drew a long breath and held it suspended for a moment. She had
the air of one about to make a dreaded plunge.

"No, I can't let you alone, Keith," she replied, voice and manner now
coldly firm.

"Why not? What's the use when I don't want to get up?"

"How about thinkin' for once what somebody else wants, young man?"
Susan caught her breath again, and glanced furtively at the half-
averted face on the pillow. Then doggedly she went on. "Maybe you
think I hain't got anything to do but trespass up an' down them stairs
all day waitin' on you, when you are perfectly capacious of waitin' on
yourself SOME."

"Why, SUSAN!" There was incredulous, hurt amazement in the boy's
voice; but Susan was visibly steeling herself against it.

"What do you think?--that I'm loafin' all day, an' your aunt gone now,
an' me with it all on my hands?" she demanded, her stony gaze
carefully turned away from the white face on the pillow. "An' to have
to keep runnin' up here all the mornin' when I've got to do the
dishes, an' bake bread, an' make soap, an'--"

"If you'll get my clothes, Susan, I'll get up," said Keith very
quietly from the bed.

And Susan, not daring to unclose her lips, wrested the garments from
the hooks, dropped them on to the chair by the bed, and fled from the
room. But she had not reached the hall below when the sobs shook her
frame.

"An' me talkin' like that when I'd be willin' to walk all day on my
hands an' knees, if't would help him one little minute," she choked.

Barely had Susan whipped herself into presentable shape again when
Keith's voice at the kitchen door caused her to face about with a
startled cry.

"I'm downstairs, Susan." The boy's voice challenged hers for coldness
now. "I'll take my meals down here, after this."

"Why, Keith, however in the world did you--" Then Susan pulled herself
up. "Good boy, Keith! That WILL make it lots easier," she said
cheerfully, impersonally, turning away and making a great clatter of
pans in the sink.

But later, at least once every half-hour through that long forenoon,
Susan crept softly through the side hall to the half-open living-room
door, where she could watch Keith. She watched him get up and move
slowly along the side of the room, picking his way. She watched him
pause and move hesitating fingers down the backs of the chairs that he
encountered. But when she saw him stop and finger the books on the
little table by the window, she crept back to her kitchen--and rattled
still more loudly the pots and pans in the sink.

Just before the noon meal Keith appeared once more at the kitchen
door.

"Susan, would it bother you very much if I ate out here--with you?" he
asked.

"With me? Nonsense! You'll eat in the dinin'-room with your dad, of
course. Why, what would he say to your eatin' out here with me?"

"That's just it. It's dad. He'd like it, I'm sure," insisted the boy
feverishly. "You know sometimes I--I don't get any food on my fork,
when I eat, an' I have to--to feel for things, an' it--it must be
disagreeable to see me. An' you know he never liked disagreeable--"

"Now, Keith Burton, you stop right where you are," interrupted Susan
harshly. "You're goin' to eat with your father where you belong. An'
do you now run back to the settin'-room. I've got my dinner to get."

Keith had not disappeared down the hall, however, before Susan was
halfway up the back stairs. A moment later she was in the studio.

"Daniel Burton, you're goin' to have company to dinner," she panted.

"Company?"

"Yes. Your son." "KEITH?" The man drew back perceptibly.

"There, now, Daniel Burton, don't you go to scowlin' an' lookin' for a
place to run, just because you hate to see him feel 'round for what he
eats."

"But, Susan, it breaks my heart," moaned the man, turning quite away.

"What if it does? Ain't his broke, too? Can't you think of him a
little? Let me tell you this, Daniel Burton--that boy has more
consolation for your feelin's than you have for his, every time.
Didn't he jest come to me an' beg to eat with me, 'cause his dad
didn't like to see disagreeable things, an'--"

The man wheeled sharply.

"Did Keith--do that?"

"He did, jest now, sir."

"All right, Susan. I--I don't think you'll have to say--any more."

And Susan, after a sharp glance into the man's half-averted face, said
no more. A moment later she had left the room.

At dinner that day, with red eyes but a vivacious manner, she waited
on a man who incessantly talked of nothing in particular, and a boy
who sat white-faced and silent, eating almost nothing.




CHAPTER XII

CALLERS FOR "KEITHIE"


And so inch by inch Susan fought her way, and inch by inch she gained
ground. Sometimes it was by coaxing, sometimes by scolding; perhaps
most often by taunts and dares, and shrewd appeals to Keith's pride.
But by whatever it was, each day saw some stride forward, some new
victory that Keith had won over his blindness, until by the end of the
week the boy could move about the house and wait upon himself with a
facility almost unbelievable when one remembered his listless
helplessness of a week before.

Then one day there entered into the case a brand-new element, a dainty
element in white muslin and fluttering blue ribbons--Mazie Sanborn and
Dorothy Parkman.

"We heard Keithie was lots better and up and dressed now," chirped
Mazie, when Susan answered her ring; "and so we've brought him some
flowers. Please can't we see him?"

Susan hesitated. Susan had not forgotten Keith's feverish retreat from
Mazie's greeting called up to the veranda the month before. But then,
for that matter, had he not retreated from everything until she
determinedly took him in hand? And he must some time begin to mingle
with the world outside the four walls of his house!

Why not now? What better chance could she hope to have for him to
begin than this? Where could she find two more charmingly alluring
ambassadors of that outside world than right here on the door-step
now?

Susan's lips snapped together with a little defiant nod of her head,
then parted in a cordial smile.

"Sure, you may see him," she cried, "an' it's glad that I am to have
you come! It'll do him good. Come in, come in!" And with only a
heightened color to show her trepidation as to the reception that
might be accorded her charges, she threw open the sitting-room door.
"Well, Keith, here's company come on purpose to see you. An' they've
brought you some flowers," she announced gayly.

"No, no, Susan, I--I don't want to see them," stammered the boy. He
had leaped to his feet, a painful red flooding his face.

"Well, I like that!" bridled Mazie, with playful indignation; "and
when Dorothy and I have taken all this trouble to come and--"

"Is Dorothy here, too?" interrupted the boy sharply.

"Yes, Keith I am--here." Dorothy was almost crying, and her voice
sounded harsh and unnatural.

"And we brought you these," interposed Mazie brightly, crossing the
room to his side and holding out the flowers. Then, with a little
embarrassed laugh, as he did not take them, she thrust them into his
fingers. "Oh, I forgot. You can't see them, can you?"

"Mazie!" remonstrated the half-smothered voice of Dorothy.

But it was Susan who came promptly to the rescue.

"Yes, an' ain't they pretty?" she cried, taking them from Keith's
unresisting fingers. "Here, let me put 'em in water, an' you two sit
down. I always did love coronation pinks," she declared briskly, as
she left the room.

She was not gone long. Very quickly she came back, with the flowers in
a vase. Keith had dropped back into his chair; but he was plainly so
unwilling a host that Susan evidently thought best to assist him. She
set the vase on a little stand near Keith's chair, then dropped
herself on to the huge haircloth sofa near by.

"My, but I don't mind settin' myself awhile," she smiled. "Guess I'm
tired."

"I should think you would be." Mazie, grown suddenly a bit stiff and
stilted, was obviously trying to be very polite and "grown up." "There
must be an awful lot to do here. Mother says she don't see how you
stand it."

"Pooh! Not so very much!" scoffed Susan, instantly on her guard.
"Keith here's gettin' so smart he won't let me do anything hardly for
him now."

Oh, but there must be a lot of things," began Mazie," that he can't
do, and--"

"Er--what a lovely big, sunny room," interrupted Dorothy hastily, so
hastily that Susan threw a sharp glance into her face to see if she
were really interrupting Mazie for a purpose. "I love big rooms."

"Yes, so do I," chimed in Mazie. "And I always wanted to see the
inside of this house, too."

"What for?" Keith's curiosity got the better of his vexed reticence,
and forced the question from his lips.

"Oh, just 'cause I've heard folks say 'twas so wonderful--old, you
know, and full of rare old things, and there wasn't another for miles
around like it. But I don't see--That is," she corrected herself,
stumbling a little, "you probably don't keep them in this room,
anyway."

"Why, they do, too," interfered Dorothy, with suddenly pink cheeks.
"This room is just full of the loveliest kind of old things, just like
the things father is always getting--only nicer. Now that, right there
in the corner, all full of drawers--We've got one almost just exactly
like that out home, and father just dotes on it. That IS a--a highboy,
isn't it?" she appealed to Susan. "And it is very old, isn't it?"

"A highboy? Old? Lan' sakes, child," laughed Susan. "Maybe 'tis. I
ain't sayin' 'tisn't, though I'm free to confess I never heard it
called that. But it's old enough, if that's all it needs; it's old
enough to be a highMAN by this time, I reckon," chuckled Susan. "Mr.
Burton was tellin' me one day how it belonged to his great-grand-
mother."

"Kind of funny-looking, though, isn't it?" commented Mazie.

"Father'd love it, so'd Aunt Hattie," avowed Dorothy, evidently not
slow to detect the lack of appreciation in Mazie's voice. "And I do,
too," she finished, with a tinge of defiance.

Mazie laughed.

"Well, all right, you may, for all I care," she retorted. Then to
Keith she turned with sudden disconcerting abruptness: "Say, Keith,
what do you do all day?"

It was Susan who answered this. Indeed, it was Susan who answered a
good many of the questions during the next fifteen minutes. Some she
answered because she did not want Keith to answer them. More she
answered because Keith would not answer them. To tell the truth, Keith
was anything but a polite, gracious host. He let it be plainly
understood that he was neither pleased at the call nor interested in
the conversation. And the only semblance of eagerness in his demeanor
that afternoon was when his young visitors rose to go.

In spite of Keith's worse than indifference, however, Susan was
convinced that this call, and others like it, were exactly what was
needed for Keith's best welfare and development. With all her skill
and artifice, therefore, she exerted herself to make up for Keith's
negligence. She told stories, rattled off absurd jingles, and laughed
and talked with each young miss in turn, determined to make the call
so great a success that the girls would wish to come again.

When she had bowed them out and closed the door behind them, she came
back to Keith, intending to remonstrate with him for his very
ungracious behavior. But before she could open her lips Keith himself
had the floor.

"Susan Betts," he began passionately, as soon as she entered the room,
"don't you ever let those girls in again. I won't have them. I WON'T
HAVE THEM, I tell you!

"Oh, for shame, Keith!--and when they were so kind and thoughtful,
too!"

"It wasn't kindness and thoughtfulness," resented the boy. "It was
spying out. They came to see how I took it. I know 'em. And that
Dorothy Parkman--I don't know WHY she came. She said long ago that she
couldn't bear--to look at 'em."

"Look at them?"

"Yes--blind folks. Her father is a big oculist--doctors eyes, you
know. She told me once. And she said she couldn't bear to look at
them; that--"

"An eye doctor?--a big one?" Susan was suddenly excited, alert.

"Yes, yes. And--"

"Where's he live?"

"I don't know. Where she does, I s'pose. I don't know where that is.
She's here most of the time, and--"

"Is he a real big one?--a really, truly big one?"

"Yes, yes, I guess so." Keith had fallen wearily back in his chair,
his strength spent. "Dad said he was one of the biggest in the
country. And of course lots of--of blind people go there, and she sees
them. Only she says she can't bear to see them, that she won't look at
them. And--and she shan't come here--she shan't, Susan, to look at me,
and--"

But Susan was not listening now. With chin up-tilted and a new fire in
her eyes, she had turned toward the kitchen door.

Two days later, on her way to the store, Susan spied Dorothy Parkman
across the street. Without hesitation or ceremony she went straight
across and spoke to her.

"Is it true that your father is a big occultist, one of the biggest
there is?" she demanded.

"A--what?" Dorothy frowned slightly.

"Occultist--doctors folks' eyes, you know. Is he? I heard he was."

"Oh! Y-yes--yes, he is." Miss Dorothy was giggling a bit now.

"Then, listen!" In her eagerness Susan had caught the girl's sleeve
and held it. "Can't you get him to come on an' see you, right away,
quick? Don't he want to take you home, or--or something?"

Dorothy laughed merrily.

"Why, Susan, are you in such a hurry as all that to get rid of me? Did
I act so bad the other day that--"A sudden change crossed her face.
Her eyes grew soft and luminous. "Was it for--Keith that you wanted
father, Susan?"

"Yes." Susan's eyes blurred, and her voice choked.

"Well, then I'm glad to tell you he is coming by and by. He's coming
to take me home for Christmas. But--he isn't going to stay long."

"That's all right--that's all right," retorted Susan, a little
breathlessly. "If he'd jest look at the boy's eyes an' tell if--if he
could fix 'em later. You see, we--we couldn't have it done now, 'cause
there ain't any money to pay. But we'll have it later. We'll sure have
it later, an' then--"

"Of course he'll look at them," interrupted Dorothy eagerly. "He'll
love to, I know. He's always so interested in eyes, and new cases.
And--and don't worry about the other part--the money, you know,"
nodded Dorothy, hurrying away then before Susan could protest.

As it happened Keith was more "difficult" than usual that afternoon,
and Susan, thinking to rouse him from his lassitude, suddenly
determined to tell him all about the wonderful piece of good fortune
in store for him.

"How'd you like to have that little Miss Dorothy's daddy see your
eyes, honey," she began eagerly, "an' tell--"

"I wouldn't let him see them." Keith spoke coldly, decisively.

"Oh, but he's one of the biggest occultists there is, an'--"

"I suppose you mean 'oculist,' Susan," interrupted Keith, still more
coldly; "but that doesn't make any difference. I don't want him."

"But, Keith, if he--"

"I tell you I won't have him," snapped Keith irritably.

"But you've got to have somebody, an' if he's the biggest!" All the
eager light had died out of Susan's face.

"I don't care if he is the biggest, he's Dorothy Parkman's father, and
that's enough. I WON'T HAVE HIM!"

"No, no; well, all right!" And Susan, terrified and dismayed, hurried
from the room.

But though Susan was dismayed and terrified, she was far from being
subdued. In the kitchen she lifted her chin defiantly.

"All right, Master Keith," she muttered to herself. "You can say what
you want to, but you'll have him jest the same--only you won't know
he's HIM. I'll jest tell him to call hisself another name for you. An'
some time I'll find out what there is behind that Dorothy Parkman
business. But 'tain't till Christmas, an' that's 'most two months off
yet. Time enough for trouble when trouble knocks at the door; an' till
it does knock, jest keep peggin' away."




CHAPTER XIII

FREE VERSE--A LA SUSAN


And persistently, systematically Susan did, indeed, keep "peggin'
away." No sooner had she roused Keith to the point of accomplishing
one task than she set for him another. No sooner could he pilot
himself about one room than she inveigled him into another. And when
he could go everywhere about the house she coaxed him out into the
yard. It was harder here, for Keith had a morbid fear of being stared
at. And only semi-occasionally would he consent at all to going out.

It was then that with stern determination Susan sought Daniel Burton.

"Look a-here, Daniel Burton," she accosted him abruptly, "I've done
all I can now, an' it's up to you."

The man looked up, plainly startled.

"Why, Susan, you don't mean--you aren't--GOING, are you?"

"Goin' nothin'--shucks!" tossed Susan to one side disdainfully. "I
mean that Keith ain't goin' to get that good red blood he's needin'
sittin' 'round the house here. He's got to go off in the woods an'
walk an' tramp an' run an' scuff leaves. An' you've got to go with
him. I can't, can I?"

The man shifted his position irritably.

"Do you think that boy will let me lead him through the streets,
Susan? Well, I know he won't."

"I didn't say 'lead him.' I said go WITH him. There's an awful lot of
difference between leadin' an' accommodatin'. We don't none of us like
to be led, but we don't mind goin' WITH folks 'most anywheres. Put
your arm into his an' walk together. He'll walk that way. I've tried
it. An' to see him you wouldn't know he was blind at all. Oh, yes, I
know you're hangin' back an' don't want to. I know you hate to see him
or be with him, 'cause it makes you KNOW what a terrible thing it is
that's come to you an' him. But you've got to, Daniel Burton. You an'
me is all he's got to stand between him an' utter misery. I can feed
his stomach an' make him do the metaphysical things, but it's you
that's got to feed his soul an' make him do the menial things."

"Oh, Susan, Susan!" half groaned the man. There was a smile on his
lips, but there were tears in his eyes.

"Well, it's so," argued Susan earnestly. "Oh, I read to him, of
course. I read him everything I can get hold of, especially about men
an' women that have become great an' famous an' extinguished, even if
they was blind or deaf an' dumb, or lame--especially blind. But I
can't learn him books, Mr. Burton. You've got to do that. You've got
to be eyes for him, an' he's got to go to school to you. Mr. Burton,"
--Susan's voice grew husky and unsteady,--"you've got a chance now to
paint bigger an' grander pictures than you ever did before, only you
won't be paintin' 'em on canvas backs. You'll be paintin' 'em on that
boy's soul, an' you'll be usin' words instead of them little brushes."

"You've put that--very well, Susan." It was the man who spoke
unsteadily, huskily, now.

"I don't know about that, but I do know that them pictures you're
goin' to paint for him is goin' to be the makin' of him. Why, Mr.
Burton, we can't have him lazin' behind, 'cause when he does get back
his eyes we don't want him to be too far behind his class."

"But what--if he doesn't ever get his eyes", Susan?"

"Then he'll need it all the more. But he's goin' to get 'em, Mr.
Burton. Don't you remember? The nurse said if he got well an' strong
he could have somethin' done. I've got the doctor, an' all I need now
is the money. An'--an' that makes me think." She hesitated, growing
suddenly pink and embarrassed. Then resolutely she put her hand into
the pocket of her apron and pulled out two folded papers.

"I was goin' to tell you about these, anyhow, so I might as well do it
now," she explained. "You know, them--them other poems didn't sell
much--there was only one went, an' the man wouldn't take that till
he'd made me promise he could print my letter, too, that I'd wrote
with it--jest as if that was worth anything!--but he only paid a
measly dollar anyhow. "Susan's voice faltered a little, though her
chin was at a brave tilt. "An' I guess now I know the reason. Them
kind of poems ain't stylish no longer. Rhymes has gone out.
Everything's 'free verse' now. I've been readin' up about it. So I've
wrote some of 'em. They're real easy to do--jest lines chopped off
free an' easy, anywheres that it happens, only have some long, an'
some short, for notoriety, you know, like this." And she read:

"A great big cloud
 That was black
 Came up
 Out of the West. An' I knew
 Then
 For sure
 That a storm was brewin'.
 An' it brewed."

"Now that was dead easy--anybody could see that. But it's kind of
pretty, I think, too, jest the same. Them denatured poems are always
pretty, I think--about trees an' grass an' flowers an' the sky, you
know. Don't you?"

"Why, er--y-yes, of course," murmured the man faintly.

"I tried a love poem next. I don't write them very often. They're so
common. You see 'em everywhere, you know. But I thought I would try
it--'twould be different, anyhow, in this new kind of verses. So I
wrote this:

     Oh, love of mine,
     I love
     Thee.
     Thy hair is yellow like the
     Golden squash.
     Thy neck so soft
     An' slender like a goose,
     Is encompassed in filtered lace
     So rich an'
     Rare.
     Thy eyes in thy pallid face like
     Blueberries in a
     Saucer of milk.
     Oh, love of mine,
     I love
     Thee."

"Have you sent--any of these away yet, Susan?" Daniel Burton was on
his feet now, his back carefully turned.

"No, not yet; but I'm goin' to pretty quick, an' I guess them will
sell." Susan nodded happily, and smiled. But almost instantly her face
grew gravely earnest again. "But all the money in the world ain't
goin' to do no good Mr. Burton, unless we do our part, an' our part is
to get him well an' strong for that operator. Now I'm goin' to send
Keith in to you. I ain't goin' to TELL him he's goin' to walk with
you, 'cause if I did he wouldn't come. But I'm expectin' you to take
him, jest the same," she finished severely, as she left the room.

Keith and his father went to walk. It was the first of many such
walks. Almost every one of these crisp November days found the two off
on a tramp somewhere. And because Daniel Burton was careful always to
accompany, never to lead, the boy's step gained day by day in
confidence and his face in something very like interest. And always,
for cold and stormy days, there were the books at home.

Daniel Burton was not painting pictures--pigment pictures--these days.
His easel was empty. "The Woodland Path," long since finished, had
been sent away "to be sold." Most of Daniel Burton's paintings were
"sent away to be sold," so that was nothing new. What was new,
however, was the fact that no fresh canvas was placed on the easel to
take the place of the picture sent away. Daniel Burton had begun no
new picture. The easel, indeed, was turned face to the wall. And yet
Daniel Burton was painting pictures, wonderful pictures. His brushes
were words, his colors were the blue and gold and brown and crimson of
the wide autumn landscape, his inspiration was the hungry light on a
boy's face, and his canvas was the soul of the boy behind it. Most
assuredly Daniel Burton was giving himself now, heart and mind and
body, to his son. Even the lynx-eyed, alert Susan had no fault to
find. Daniel Burton, most emphatically, was "doing his part."




CHAPTER XIV

A SURPRISE ALL AROUND


The week before Christmas Dorothy Parkman brought a tall, dignified-
looking man to the Burtons' shabby, but still beautiful, colonial
doorway.

Dorothy had not seen Keith, except on the street, since her visit with
Mazie in October. Two or three times the girls had gone to the house
with flowers or fruit, but Keith had stubbornly refused to see them,
in spite of Susan's urgings. To-day Dorothy, with this evidently in
mind, refused Susan's somewhat dubious invitation to come in.

"Oh, no, thank you, I'll not come in," she smiled. "I only brought
father, that's all. And--oh, I do hope he can do something," she
faltered unsteadily. And Susan saw that her eyes were glistening with
tears as she turned away.

In the hall Susan caught the doctor's arm nervously.

"Dr. Parkman, there's somethin'--"

"My name is Stewart," interrupted the doctor.

"What's that? What's that?" cried Susan, unconsciously tightening her
clasp on his arm. "Ain't you Dorothy Parkman's father?"

"I'm her stepfather. She was nine when I married Mrs. Parkman, her
mother."

"Then your name ain't Parkman, at all! Oh, glory be!" ejaculated Susan
ecstatically. "Well, if that ain't the luckiest thing ever!"

"Lucky?" frowned the doctor, looking thoroughly mystified, and not
altogether pleased.

Susan gave an embarrassed laugh.

"There, now, if that ain't jest like me, to fly off on a tandem like
that, without a word of exploitation. It's jest that I'm so glad I
won't have to ask you to come under a resumed name."

"Under a what, madam?" The doctor was looking positively angry now.
Moreover, with no uncertain determination, he was trying to draw
himself away from Susan's detaining fingers.

"Oh, please, doctor, please, don't be mad!" Susan had both hands hold
of his arm now. "'Twas for Keith, an' I knew you'd be willin' to do
anything for him, when you understood, jest as I am. You see, I didn't
want him to know you was Dorothy's father," she plunged on
breathlessly, "an' so I was goin' to ask you to let me call you
somethin' else--not Parkman. An' then, when I found that you didn't
have to have a resumed name, that you was already somebody else--that
is, that you was really you, only Keith wouldn't know you was you, I
was so glad."

"Oh, I see." The doctor was still frowning, though his lips were
twitching a little. "But--er--do you mind telling me why I can't be I?
What's the matter with Dorothy's father?"

"Nothin' sir. It's jest a notion. Keith won't see Dorothy, nor Mazie,
nor none of 'em. He thinks they come jest to spy out how he looks an'
acts; an' he got it into his head that if you was Dorothy's father, he
wouldn't see you. He hates to be pitied an' stared at."

"Oh, I see." A sympathetic understanding came into the doctor's eyes.
The anger was all gone now. "Very well. As it happens I'm really Dr.
Stewart. So you may call me that with all honesty, and we'll be very
careful not to let the boy know I ever heard of Dorothy Parkman. How
about the boy's father? Does he--know?"

"Yes, sir. I told him who you was, an' that you was comin'; an' I told
him we wasn't goin' to let Keith know. An' he said 'twas absurd, an'
we couldn't help lettin' him know. But I told him I knew better an'
'twas all right."

"Oh, you did!" The doctor was regarding Susan with a new interest in
his eyes.

"Yes, an' 'tis, you see."

"Where is Mr. Burton?"

"In his studio--shut up. He'll see you afterwards. I told him he'd GOT
to do that."

"Eh? What?" The doctor's eyes flew wide open.

"See you afterwards. I told him he'd ought to be in the room with you,
when you was examplin' Keith's eyes. But I knew he wouldn't do that.
He never will do such-like things--makes him feel too bad. An' he
wanted ME to find out what you said. But I told him HE'D got to do
that. But, oh, doctor, I do hope--oh, please, please say somethin'
good if you can. An' now I'll take you in. It's right this way through
the sittin'-room."

"By Jove, what a beauty!" Halfway across the living-room the doctor
had come to a pause before the mahogany highboy.

"THAT?"

"Yes, 'that'!" The whimsical smile in the doctor's eyes showed that he
was not unappreciative of the scorn in Susan's voice. "By George, it
IS a beauty! I've got one myself, but it doesn't compare with that,
for a minute. H-m! And that's not the only treasure you have here, I
see," he finished, his admiring gaze roving about the room. "We've got
some newer, better stuff in the parlor. These are awful old things in
here," apologized Susan.

"Yes, I see they are--old things." The whimsical smile had come back
to the doctor's eyes as he followed Susan through the doorway.

"Keith's upstairs in his room, an' I'm takin' you up the back way so's
Mr. Burton won't hear. He asked me to. He didn't want to know jest
exactly when you was here."

"Mr. Burton must be a brave man," commented the doctor dryly.

"He ain't--not when it comes to seein' disagreeable things, or folks
hurt," answered the literal Susan cheerfully. "But he'll see you all
right, when it's over." Her lips came together with a sudden grimness.

The next moment, throwing open Keith's door, her whole expression
changed. She had eyes and thoughts but for the blind boy over by the
window.

The doctor, too, obviously, by the keen, professional alertness that
transfigured his face at that moment, had eyes and thoughts but for
that same blind boy over by the window.

"Well, Keith, here's Dr. Stewart to see you boy."

"Dr.--Stewart?" Keith was on his feet, startled, uncertain.

"Yes, Dr. Stewart.'" Susan repeated the name with clear emphasis. "He
was in town an' jest came up to look at you. He's a big, kind doctor,
dear, an' you'll like him, I know." At the door Susan turned to the
doctor. "An' when--when you're done, sir, if you'll jest come down
them stairs to the kitchen, please--TO THE KITCHEN," she repeated,
hurrying out before Keith could remonstrate.

Down in the kitchen Susan took a pan of potatoes to peel--and when,
long hours later, after the doctor had come downstairs, had talked
with Mr. Burton, and had gone, Susan went to get those potatoes to
boil for dinner, she found that all but two of them had been peeled
and peeled and peeled, until there was nothing left but--peelings.

Susan was peeling the next to the last potato when the doctor came
down to the kitchen.

"Well?" She was on her feet instantly.

The doctor's face was grave, yet his eyes were curiously alight. They
seemed to be looking through and beyond Susan.

"I don't know. I THINK I have good news, but I'm not--sure."

"But there's a chance?"

"Yes; but-" There was a moment's silence; then, with an indrawing of
his breath, the doctor's soul seemed to come back from a long journey.
"I think I know what is the matter." The doctor was looking at Susan,
now, not through her. "If it's what I think it is, it's a very rare
disease, one we do not often find."

"But could you--can you--is it possible to--to cure it?"

"We can operate--yes; but it's six to half a dozen whether it's
successful or not. They've just about broken even so far--the cases
I've known about. But they've been interesting, most interesting." The
doctor was far away again.

"But there's a chance; and if there is a chance I'd want to take it,"
cried Susan. "Wouldn't you?"

There was no answer.

Susan hesitated, threw a hurried glance into the doctor's preoccupied
face, then hurried on again feverishly.

"Doctor, there's somethin' I've got to--to speak to you about before
you see Mr. Burton. It--it--it'll cost an awful lot, I s'pose."

There was no answer.

Susan cleared her throat.

"It--it'll cost an awful lot, won't it, doctor?" she asked in a louder
voice.

"Eh? What? Cost? Oh, yes, yes; it is an expensive operation." The
doctor spoke unconcernedly. He merely glanced at Susan, then resumed
his fixed gaze into space.

"Well, doctor." Susan cleared her throat again. This time she caught
hold of the doctor's sleeve as if to pull him bodily back to a
realizing sense of her presence. "About the money--we haven't got it.
An' that's what I wanted to speak to you about. Mr. Burton hain't got
any. He's already spent more'n he's got--part of next year's annual, I
mean. Some day he'll have more--a whole lot more--when Mis' Holworthy,
his third cousin, dies. 'Twas her husband that gave him the annual,
you understand, an' when she dies it'll come to him in a plump sum.
But 'tain't his now, an' 'course it won't be till she goes; an'
'course 'tain't for us to dodge her footsteps hopin' she'll jest
naturally stop walkin' some day--though I'm free to confess she has
lost most all her facilities, bein' deaf an' lame an' some blind; an'
I can't exactly see the harm in wishin' she had got 'em all back--in
Heaven, I mean. But 'course I don't say so to him. An' as I said
before, we hain't got money now--not any.

"An'--an' his last pictures didn't sell any better than the others,"
she went on a little breathlessly. "Then there was me--that is, I WAS
goin' to get some money; but--but, well MY pictures didn't sell,
either." She paused to wet her lips. "But I've thought it all out, an'
there's a way.

You--you'd have to have Keith with you, somewheres, wouldn't you?"

"To operate? Oh, yes, yes."

"A long time?"

"Eh? What? Oh, yes, we would have to have him a long time, probably.
In fact, time is one of the very biggest factors in such cases--for
the after-treatment, you know. And we must have him where we can watch
him, of course."

"Oh! Then that's all right, then. I can manage it fine," sighed Susan,
showing by the way her whole self relaxed how great had been the
strain. "Then I'll come right away to work for you."

"To what?" The doctor suddenly came back to earth.

"To work for you--in your kitchen, I mean," nodded Susan. "I'll send
Mr. Burton to his sister's, then I'll come to you, an' I'll come
impaired to stay till I've paid it up--every cent."

"Good Heavens, woman!" ejaculated the man. "What are you talking
about?"

"Oh, please, please don't say that I can't," besought Susan, her
fearful eyes on his perturbed face. "I'll work real well--truly I
will. An' I'm a real good cook, honest I am, when I have a super-
abundance to do it with--butter, an' eggs, an' nice roasts. An' I
won't bother you a mite with my poetry. I don't make it much now,
anyhow. An'--oh, doctor, you've GOT to let me do it; it's the only way
there is to p-pay." Her voice choked into silence. Susan turned her
back abruptly. Not even for Keith could Susan let any one see her cry.

"Pay! And do you think you'd live long--" Just in time the doctor
pulled himself up short. Thrusting his hands into his pockets he took
a nervous turn about the kitchen; then sharply he wheeled about. "My
dear woman, let us talk no more about the money question. See here, I
shall be glad to take that boy into my charge and take care of him for
the sheer love of it--indeed, I shall!"

"Do you mean without ANY pay?" Susan had drawn herself up haughtily.

"Yes. So far as money goes--it is of no consequence, anyway. I'm glad--"

"Thank you, but we ain't charitable folks, Dr. Stewart," cut in Susan
coldly. "Maybe it is infinitesimal to you whether we pay or not, but't
ain't to us. We don't want--"

"But I tell you it's pay enough just to do it," interrupted the doctor
impatiently. "It's a very rare case, and I'm glad--"

A door banged open.

"Susan, hasn't that doctor--" a new voice cut in, then stopped short.

The doctor turned to see a pallid-faced, blond-bearded man with
rumpled hair standing in the doorway.

"Mr. Burton?" hazarded the doctor crisply.

"Yes. And you-"

"Dr. Stewart. And I'd like a little talk with you, please--if you can
talk sense. "This last was added under his breath; but Daniel Burton
was not listening, in any case. He was leading the way to the studio.

In the studio the doctor did not wait for questions, but plunged at
once into his story.

"Without going into technical terms, Mr. Burton, I will say that your
son has a very rare trouble. There is only one known relief, and that
is a certain very delicate operation. Even with that, the chances are
about fifty-fifty that he regains his sight."

"But there's a chance?"

"Yes, there's a chance. And, anyway, it won't do any harm to try. It
is the only thing possible, and, if it fails--well, he'll only be
blind, as he is now. It must be done right away, however. Even now it
may be too late. And I may as well tell you, if it DOESN'T fail--there
is a strong probability of another long period of treatment and a
second operation, before there's a chance of ultimate success!"

"Could--could that time be spent here?" Daniel Burton's lips had grown
a little white.

"No. I should want the boy where I could see him frequently--with me,
in fact. And that brings me to what I was going to propose. With your
permission I will take the boy back with me next week to Chicago, and
operate at once. And let me say that from sheer interest in the case I
shall be glad to do this entirely without cost to you."

"Thank you; but of course you must understand that I could not allow
that for a moment." A painful color had flamed into Daniel Burton's
face.

"Nonsense! Don't be foolish, man. I tell you I'm glad to do it. It'll
be worth it to me--the rarity of the case--"

"How much--would it cost?" interposed Daniel Burton peremptorily, with
an unsteadiness of voice that the doctor did not fail to read aright.

"Why, man, alive, it would cost--" With his eyes on Daniel Burton's
sternly controlled face, the doctor came to an abrupt pause. Then,
turning, he began to tramp up and down the room angrily. "Oh, hang it
all, man, why can't you be sensible? I tell you I don't want any--"
Once again his tongue stopped. His feet, also, had come to an abrupt
pause. He was standing before an old colonial mirror. Then suddenly he
wheeled about. "By Jove, there IS something I want. If you'll sell me
two or three of these treasures of yours here, you will be more than
cancelling your debt, and--"

"Thank you," interrupted the other coldly, but with a still deeper red
staining his face. "As I happen to know of the unsalability of these
pictures, however, I cannot accept your generosity there, either."

"Pictures!" The doctor, turning puzzled eyes back to the mirror, saw
now that a large oil painting hung beside it on the wall. "I wasn't
talking about your pictures, man," he scoffed then. "I was looking at
that mirror there, and I'd like the highboy downstairs, if I could
persuade you to part with them, and--WOULD you be willing to part with
them?"

"What do you think!" (So marvelous was the change, and so great was
the shining glory in Daniel Burton's face, that the doctor caught
himself actually blinking.) "Do you think there's anything, ANYTHING
that I wouldn't part with, if I thought I could give that boy a
chance? Make your own selection, doctor. I only hope you'll want--
really WANT--enough of them to amount to something."

The doctor threw a keen glance into his face.

"Amount to something! Don't you know the value of these things here?"

Daniel Burton laughed and shrugged his shoulders. "Oh, I suppose they
are--valuable. But I shall have to confess I DON'T know very much
about it. They're very old, I can vouch for that."

"Old! Humph!" The doctor was close to the mirror now, examining it
with the appreciative eyes of the real lover of the antique. "I should
say they were. Jove, that's a beauty! And I've got just the place
that's hungering for it."

"Good! Suppose we look about the house, then, a little," suggested
Daniel Burton. "Perhaps we'll find some more things--er--good for a
hungry stomach, eh?" And with a light on his face such as had not been
there for long months past, Daniel Burton led the way from the studio.




CHAPTER XV

AGAIN SUSAN TAKES A HAND


That evening Daniel Burton told Susan. "Keith is to go home with Dr.
Stewart next week. The doctor will operate as soon as possible. Keith
will live at the sanatorium connected with the doctor's home and be
under his constant supervision."

Susan tried to speak, but instead of speaking she burst into tears.

"Why, Susan!" exclaimed the man.

"I know, I know," she choked, angrily dashing the drops from her eyes.
"An' me cryin' like this when I'm gettin' jest what I want, too!"

"But there's no certainty, Susan, that it'll be successful; remember
that," warned the man, his face clouding a little. "We can only--
hope."

"An' there's the--the pay." Susan looked up, her voice vibrating with
fearful doubts.

"Oh, that's all right." The man lifted his head with the air of one
who at last has reached firm ground after a dangerous crossing on thin
ice. "The doctor's going to buy the highboy and that mirror in the
studio, and--oh, several other things."

"You mean that old chest of drawers in the settin'-room?" scorned
Susan openly.

"Yes." Daniel Burton's lips twitched a little.

"But will he PAY anything for 'em? Mr. Burton, you can't get nothin',
hardly, for second-hand furniture. My mother had a stove an' a real
nice bedstead, an' a red-plush parlor set, an' she sold 'em. But she
didn't get anything--not hardly anything, for 'em; an' they was 'most
new, some of 'em, too."

"That's the trouble, Susan--they were too new, probably," laughed the
man. "It's because these are old, very old, that he wants them, I
suspect.

"An' he'll really pay MONEY for 'em?" Plainly Susan still had her
doubts.

"He certainly will. I'd be almost ashamed to tell you HOW much he'll
pay, Susan," smiled the man. "It seemed to me sheer robbery on my
part. But he assures me they are very valuable, and that he's more
than delighted to have them even at that price."

"Lan' sakes! An' when I'd been worryin' an' worryin' so about the
money," sighed Susan; "an' now to have it fall plump into your lap
like that. It jest shows you not to hunt for bridges till you get your
feet wet, don't it? An' he's goin' jest next week?"

"Yes. The doctor and his daughter start Tuesday."

"You don't mean that girl Dorothy's goin' too?" Susan had almost
bounced out of her chair.

"Why, yes, Dr. Stewart SAID she was. What's the matter?"

"Matter? Matter enough! Why, if she goes--Say, why IS she taggin'
along, anyhow?" demanded Susan wrathfully.

"Well, I shouldn't exactly call it 'taggin' along' to go home with her
father for the Christmas vacation," shrugged the man. "As I understand
it, Dorothy's mother died several years ago. That's why the girl is
here in the East so much with her relatives, going to school. The
doctor's home has become practically a sanatorium--not the most
desirable place in the world to bring up a young daughter in, I should
say. Let's see, how old is Miss Dorothy?"

"Sixteen, Keith says. I asked him one day. She's about his age."

"Hm-m; well, however that may be, Susan, I don't see how we can help
ourselves very well. I fancy Miss Dorothy'll still--tag along," he
finished whimsically.

"Maybe, an' then maybe not," mumbled Susan darkly, as she turned away.

For two days after this Susan's kitchen, and even Keith himself,
showed almost neglect; persistently and systematically Susan was
running "down street" every hour or two--ostensibly on errands, yet
she bought little. She spent most of her time tramping through the
streets and stores, scrutinizing especially the face of every young
girl she met.

On the afternoon of the second day she met Dorothy Parkman coming out
of the post-office.

"Well, I've got you at last," she sighed, "though I'm free to confess
I was beginnin' to think I never would see you."

"Oh, yes, about Keith," cried the girl joyously. "Isn't it splendid!
I'm so glad! And he's going home with us right away, you know."

"Yes, I know. An' that's what--that is, I wanted--" stammered Susan,
growing red in her misery. "Oh, Miss Dorothy, you WOULD do anything
for that poor blind boy, wouldn't you?"

"Why, y-yes, of course," faltered Dorothy, stammering in her turn.

"I knew you would. Then please don't go home with your father this
time."

"Don't go home--with--my father!" exclaimed the girl, in puzzled
wonder.

"No. Because if you do--That is--Oh, I know it's awful for me to say
this, but I've got to do it for Keith. You see, if you go,--Keith
won't."

"If I go, he--I don't think--I quite understand." The girl drew back a
little haughtily. Her face showed a painful flush.

"No, no, of course you don't! An' please, PLEASE don't look like
that," begged Susan. "It's jest this. I found out. I wormed it out of
him the other day--why he won't let you come to see him. He says that
once, long ago, you said how you couldn't bear to look at blind
people, an'--"

"Oh, I never, never could have said such a cruel thing to--to a blind
boy," interposed the girl.

"He wasn't blind then. He said he wasn't. But, it was when he was
'fraid he was goin' to be blind; an' he see you an' Mazie Sanborn at
the foot of Harrington Hill, one day. It was just after the old man
had got blind, an' Keith had been up to see him. It seems that Keith
was worryin' then for fear HE was goin' to be blind."

"He WAS?"

"Yes--things blurred, an' all that. Well, at the foot of the hill he
see you an' Mazie, an' you shuddered at his goin' up to see Mr.
Harrington, an' said how could he bear to look at folks that was
blind. That YOU couldn't. An' he never forgot it. Bein' worried for
fear he himself was goin' blind, you see, he was especially acceptable
to anything like that."

"Oh, but I--I--At home I always did hate to see all the poor blind
people that came to see father," she stammered. "But it--it was only
because I felt so bad--for them. And that's one reason why father
doesn't keep me at home any more. He says--But, about Keith--I--I
didn't mean to--" Dorothy came to a helpless pause.

"Yes, I know. You didn't mean to hurt him," nodded Susan. "But it did
hurt him. An' now he always thinks of it, if he knows you're 'round.
You see, worse'n anything else, he hates to be stared at or to have
folks think he's different. There ain't anything I can ever say to him
that makes him half so happy as to act as if he wa'n't blind."

"Yes, I--see," breathed Dorothy, her eyes brimming.

"An' so now you won't go, will you? Because if you go, he won't."

Miss Dorothy frowned in deep thought for a moment.

"I shall have to go," she said at last, slowly. "Father is just
counting on my being there Christmas, and he is so lonely--I couldn't
disappoint him. But, Keith--I won't have to see much of him, anyway.
I'll explain it to father. He won't mind. He's used to his patients
taking notions. It'll be all right. Don't worry," she nodded, her face
clearing.

"But you'll have to be with Keith--some."

"Oh, yes, a little. But he won't know who I am. I'm just Dr. Stewart's
daughter. Don't you see?"

"But--he'll know your voice."

"I shan't talk much. Besides, he never did hear me talk much. It was
always Mazie that talked most. And he hasn't heard me any for a year
or more, except that little bit that day at the house."

"But your name, Dorothy," still argued Susan dubiously.

"Father never calls me that. I'm always 'Puss' to him. And there won't
be anybody else with us on the journey. Don't you worry. You just send
Keith right along, and trust me for the rest. You'll see," she nodded
again brightly, as she turned away.

Susan went home then to her neglected work. There seemed really
nothing else that she could do. But that she was far from following
Miss Dorothy's blithe advice "not to worry" was very evident from her
frowning brow and preoccupied air all the rest of the time until
Tuesday morning when Keith went--until, indeed, Mr. Burton came home
from seeing Keith off on his journey. Then her pent-up perturbation
culminated in an onslaught of precipitate questions.

"Was he all right? Was that girl there? Did he know who she was? Do
you think he'll find out?"

"One at a time, Susan, one at a time," laughed the man. "Yes, he was
all right. He went off smiling, with the doctor's arm about his
shoulders. Yes, the young lady was there, but she kept well away from
Keith, so far as I could see. Friends had come evidently to see her
off, but I noticed she contrived to keep herself and them as far away
from Keith as possible. Of course, on the journey there'll be just the
three of them. The test will come then. But I wouldn't worry, Susan.
Remember your own advice about those bridges of yours. He's started,
and he's with the doctor. I don't think he'll turn back now."

"No, I s'pose not," sighed Susan. "But I wish I could really KNOW how
things are!" she finished, as she took up her work again.

Thirty-six hours later came the telegram from the doctor telling of
their safe arrival, and a week later came a letter from Keith himself
to Susan. It was written in lead-pencil on paper that had been
carefully perforated so as to form lines not too near together.

At the top of the page in parentheses were these words:

DEAR SUSAN: If you think dad would like it you may read him a part or
the whole of this letter. I was afraid I wouldn't write very well and
that he wouldn't like to see it. So I write to you instead. I know you
won't mind.

Below came the letter.

DEAR SUSAN: How do you and dad do? I am well and hope you are the
same.

This is an awfully pretty place with trees and big lawns all around
it, and walks and seats everywhere in the summer, they say. We aren't
sitting outdoors to-day, though. It's only four below!

We had a jolly trip out. The doctor's great. He spent half his time
talking to me about the things we were seeing out the window. We went
through a wonderful country, and saw lots of interesting things.

The doctor's daughter was along, too. But she didn't have much to say
on the trip. I've seen quite a lot of her since we've been here,
though, and she's ALL RIGHT. At first I didn't like her very well. It
was her voice, I guess. It reminded me of somebody I didn't like to be
reminded of. But after I got used to it I found she was really very
nice and jolly. She knows lots of games, and we play together a lot
now. She's so different from that girl she sounded like that I don't
mind her voice now. And I don't think she minds (here a rather
unsuccessful erasure showed that "playing with me" had been
substituted for "being with blind folks").

She gave me this paper, and told me the folks at home would like a
letter, she knew. That's why I'm writing it. And I guess that's enough
for this time.

Love to all. KEITH BURTON

P.S. I'm going to have the operation to-morrow, but they won't know
for quite a while whether it's successful or not, the doctor says.
                           KEITH

Susan read this letter, then took it at once to the studio and read it
again aloud.

"Now ain't that great?" she crowed, as soon as she had finished.

"Y-yes, but he didn't say much about himself or his treatment,"
demurred the man.

Susan made an impatient gesture.

"Why, yes, he did, too! Lan' sakes, Mr. Burton, he didn't talk about
nothin' else but himself an' his treatment, all the way through. Oh, I
know he didn't say anything about his occultist treatment, if that's
what you mean. But I didn't do no worryin' about that part. It was the
other part."

"The other part!"

"Yes. They're treatin' him as if he wa'n't different an' queer. An'
didn't you notice the way he wrote? Happy as a king tellin' about what
he SAW on the way out, an' the wonderful country they went through.
They're all right--them two are. I shan't do no more worryin' about
Keith. An' her fixin' that paper so cute for him to write on--I
declare I'm that zealous of her I don't know what to do. Why couldn't
_I_ 'a' thought of that?" she sighed, as she rose to leave the room.

Two days later came a letter from the doctor. The operation had been
performed and, so far as they could judge, all was well, though, as
Keith had written, the real results would not show until the bandages
were removed some time later.

When the schools opened again in January, Dorothy Parkman came back to
Hinsdale. Susan had been counting the days ever since Christmas, for
she knew Dorothy was coming, and she could scarcely wait to see her.
This time, however, she did not have to tramp through the streets and
stores looking for her, for Miss Dorothy came at once to the house and
rang the bell.

"I knew you'd want to hear all about Mr. Keith," she smiled brightly
into Susan's eyes. "And I'm glad to report that he's doing all right."

"Be them bandages off yet? Do you mean--he can see?" demanded Susan
excitedly, leading the way to the sitting-room.

"Oh, no--no--not that!" cried the girl quickly. "I mean--he's doing
all right so far. It's a week yet before the bandages can be removed,
and even then, he probably won't see much--if at all. There'll have to
be another one--later--father says--maybe two more."

"Oh!" Susan fell back, plainly disappointed. Then, suddenly, a new
interest flamed into her eyes.

"An' he ain't sensed yet who you are?" she questioned.

Miss Dorothy blushed, and Susan noticed suddenly how very pretty she
was.

"No. Though I must confess that at first, when he heard my voice, he
looked up much startled, and even rose from his seat. But I told him
lots of folks thought I talked like Dorothy Parkman; and I just
laughed and turned it off, and made nothing of it. And so pretty quick
he made nothing of it, too. After that we got along beautifully."

"I should say you did!" retorted Susan, almost enviously. "An' you
fixin' up that paper so fine for him to write on!"

Miss Dorothy blushed again--and again Susan noticed how very charming
was the combination of brown eyes and yellow-gold hair.

"Yes, he did like that paper," smiled the young girl. "He never
mentioned the lines, and neither did I. When I first suggested the
letter home he was all ready to refuse, I could see; but I wouldn't
give him the chance. Before he could even speak I had thrust the paper
into his hands, and I could see the wonder, interest, and joy in his
face as his fingers discovered the pricked lines and followed their
course from edge to edge. But he didn't let ME know he'd found them--
not much! 'Well, I don't know but they would like a letter,' was all
he said, casually. I knew then that I had won."

"Well, I should say you had. But HOW did you know how?" cried Susan.

"Oh, you told me first that I must talk to him as if he were not
blind. Then father told me the same thing. He said lots of his
patients were like that. So I always tried to do it that way. And it's
wonderful how, when you give it a little thought, you can manage to
tell them so much that they can turn about and tell somebody else,
just as if they really had seen it."

"I know, I know," nodded Susan. "An'--Miss Dorothy"--her voice grew
unsteady--"he really IS goin' to see by an' by, ain't he?"

The girl's face clouded.

"They aren't at all sure of that."

"But they can't tell YET?" Susan had grown a little white.

"Oh, no, not sure."

"An' they're goin' to give him all the chances there is?"

"Certainly. I only spoke because I don't want you to be too
disappointed if--if we lose. You must remember that fully half of the
cases do lose."

Susan drew a long sigh. Then, determinedly she lifted her chin.

"Well, I like to think we ain't goin' to belong to that half," she
said.




CHAPTER XVI

THE WORRY OF IT


There was a letter from the doctor when the bandages were removed.
Daniel Burton began to read the letter, but his eyes blurred and his
hand shook, so that Susan had to take it up where he had dropped it.

Yet the letter was very short.

The operation had been as successful, perhaps, as they could expect,
under the circumstances. Keith could discern light now--faintly, to be
sure, but unmistakably. He was well and happy. Meanwhile he was under
treatment for the second operation to come later. But that could not
be performed for some time yet, so they must not lose their patience.
That was all.

"Well, I s'pose we ought to be glad he can see light even a little,"
sighed Susan; "but I'm free to confess I was hopin' he could do a
little more than that."

"Yes, so was I," said Daniel Burton. And Susan, looking at his face,
turned away without another word. There were times when Susan knew
enough not to talk.

Then came the days when there were only Keith's letters and an
occasional short note from the doctor to break the long months of
waiting.

In the Burton homestead at Hinsdale, living was reduced to the
simplest formula possible. On the whole, there was perhaps a little
more money. Dunning tradesmen were not so numerous. But all luxuries,
and some things that were almost necessities, were rigorously left
out. And the money was saved always--for Keith. A lodger, a young law
student, in Keith's old room helped toward defraying the family
expenses.

Susan had given up trying to sell her "poems." She had become
convinced at last that a cruel and unappreciative editorial wall was
forever to bar her from what she still believed was an eagerly
awaiting public. She still occasionally wrote jingles and talked in
rhyme; but undeniably she had lost her courage and her enthusiasm. As
she expressed it to Mrs. McGuire, she did not feel "a mite like a
gushing siphon inside her now."

As the summer came and passed, Susan and Mrs. McGuire talked over the
back-yard fence even more frequently. Perhaps because Susan was lonely
without Keith. Perhaps because there was so much to talk about.

First there was Keith.

Keith was still under treatment preparatory to the second operation.
He had not responded quite as they had hoped, the doctor said, which
meant that the operation must be postponed for perhaps several months
longer.

All this Susan talked over with Mrs. McGuire; and there was always,
too, the hushed discussion as to what would happen if, after all, it
failed, and Keith came home hopelessly blind.

"But even that ain't the worst thing that could happen," maintained
Susan stoutly. "I can tell you Keith Burton ain't goin' to let a
little thing like that floor him!"

Mrs. McGuire, however, did not echo Susan's optimistic prophecies. But
Mrs. McGuire's own sky just now was overcast, which perhaps had
something to do with it. Mrs. McGuire had troubles of her own.

It was the summer of 1914, and the never-to-be-forgotten August had
come and passed, firing the match that was destined to set the whole
world ablaze. Mrs. McGuire's eldest son John--of whom she boasted in
season and out and whom she loved with an all-absorbing passion--had
caught the war-fever, gone to Canada, and enlisted. Mrs. McGuire
herself was a Canadian by birth, and all her family still lived there.
She was boasting now more than ever about John; but, proud as she was
of her soldier boy, his going had plunged her into an abyss of doubt
and gloom.

"He'll never come back, he'll never come back," she moaned to Susan.
"I can just feel it in my bones that he won't."

"Shucks, a great, strong, healthy boy like John McGuire! Of course,
he'll come back," retorted Susan. "Besides, likely the war'll be all
over with 'fore he gets there, anyhow. An' as for feelin' it in your
bones, Mis' McGuire, that's a very facetious doctrine, an' ain't no
more to be depended upon than my flour sieve for an umbrella. They're
gay receivers every time--bones are. Why, lan' sakes, Mis' McGuire, if
all things happened that my bones told me was goin' to happen, there
wouldn't none of us be livin' by now, nor the sun shinin', nor the
moon moonin'. I found out, after awhile, how they DIDN'T happen half
the time, an' I wrote a poem on it, like this:

     Trust 'em not, them fickle bones,
     Always talkin' moans an' groans.
     Jest as if inside of you,
     Lived a thing could tell you true,
     Whether it was goin' to rain,
     Whether you would have a pain,
     Whether him or you would beat,
     Whether you'd have 'nuf to eat!
     Bones was give to hold us straight,
     Not to tell us 'bout our Fate."

"Yes, yes, I s'pose so," sighed Mrs. McGuire. "But when I think of
John, my John, lyin' there so cold an' still--"

"Well, he ain't lyin' there yet," cut in Susan impatiently. "Time
enough to hunt bears when you see their tracks. Mis' McGuire, CAN'T
you see that worryin' don't do no good? You'll have it ALL for
nothin', if he don't get hurt; an' if he does, you'll have all this
extra for nothin', anyway,--that you didn't need till the time came.
Ever hear my poem on worryin'?"

Without waiting for a reply--Susan never asked such questions with a
view to having them answered--she chanted this:

"Worry never climbed a hill,
 Worry never paid a bill,
 Worry never led a horse to water.
 Worry never cooked a meal,
 Worry never darned a heel,
 Worry never did a thing you'd think it oughter!"

"Yes, yes, I know, I know," sighed Mrs. McGuire again. "But John is
so--well, you don't know my John. Nobody knows John as I do. He'd have
made a big man if he'd lived--John would."

"'If he'd lived'!" repeated Susan severely. "Well, I never, Mis'
McGuire, if you ain't talkin' already as if he was dead! You don't
have to begin to write his obliquity notice yet, do you?"

"But he is dead," moaned Mrs. McGuire, catching at the one word in
Susan's remark and paying no attention to the rest. "He's dead to
everything he was goin' to do. He was ambitious,--my John was. He was
always studyin' and readin' books nights an' Sundays an' holidays,
when he didn't have to be in the store. He was takin' a course, you
know."

"Yes, I know--one of them respondin' schools," nodded Susan. "John's a
clever lad, he is, I'm free to confess."

Under the sunshine of Susan's appreciation Mrs. McGuire drew a step
nearer.

"He was studyin' so he could 'mount to somethin'--John was," declared
Mrs. McGuire. "He was goin' to be"--she paused and threw a hurried
look over her shoulder--"he was keepin' it secret, but he won't mind
my tellin' NOW. He was goin' to be a--writer some day, he hoped."

Susan's instantly alert attention was most flattering.

"Sho! You don't say! Poems?"

"I don't know." Mrs. McGuire drew back and spoke a little coldly. Now
that the secret was out, Mrs. McGuire was troubled evidently with
qualms of conscience. "He never said much. He didn't want it talked
about."

Susan drew a long breath.

"Yes, I know. 'Tain't so pleasant if folks know--when you can't sell
'em. Now in my case--"

But Mrs. McGuire, with a hurried word about the beans in her oven, had
hastened into the house.

Mrs. McGuire was not the only one with whom Susan was having long
talks. September had come bringing again the opening of the schools,
which in turn had brought Miss Dorothy Parkman back to Hinsdale.

Miss Dorothy was seventeen now, and prettier than ever--in Susan's
opinion. She had been again to her father's home; and Susan never
could hear enough of her visit or of Keith. Nor was Miss Dorothy
evidently in the least loath to talk of her visit--or of Keith.
Patiently, even interestedly, each time she saw Susan, she would
repeat for her the details of Keith's daily life, telling everything
that she knew about him.

"But I've told you all there is, before," she said laughingly one day
at last, when Susan had stopped her as she was going by the house.
"I've told it several times before."

"Yes, I know you have," nodded Susan, drawing a long breath; "but I
always get somethin' new in it, just as I do in the Bible, you know.
You always tell me somethin' you hadn't mentioned before. Now, to-day
--you never told me before about them dominoes you an' him played
together."

"Didn't I?" An added color came into Miss Dorothy's cheeks. "Well, we
played them quite a lot. Poor fellow! Time hung pretty heavily on his
hands, and we HAD to do something for him. There were other games,
too, that we played together."

"But how can he play dominoes, an' those others, when--when he can't
see?"

"Oh, the points of the dominoes are raised, of course, and the board
has little round places surrounded by raised borders for him to keep
his dominoes in. The cards are marked with little raised signs in the
corners, and there are dice studded with tiny nailheads. The checker-
board has little grooves to keep the men from sliding. Of course, we
already had all these games, you know. They use them for all father's
patients. But, of course, Keith had to be taught first."

"And you taught him?"

"Well, I taught him some of them." The added color was still in Miss
Dorothy's cheeks.

"An' you told me last week you read to him."

"Yes, oh, yes. I read to him quite a lot."

The anxiously puckered frown on Susan's face suddenly dissolved into a
broad smile.

"Lan' sakes, if that ain't the limit!" she chuckled.

"Well, what do you mean by that?" bridled Miss Dorothy, looking not
exactly pleased.

"Nothin'. It's only that I was jest a-thinkin' how you was foolin'
him."

"Fooling him?" Miss Dorothy was looking decidedly not pleased now.

"Yes, an' you all the time Dorothy Parkman, an' he not knowin' it."

"Oh!" The color on Miss Dorothy's face was one pink blush now. Then
she laughed lightly. "After all, do you know?--I hardly ever thought
of that, after the very first. He called me Miss Stewart, of course--
but lots of folks out there do that. They don't think, or don't know,
about my name being different, you see. The patients, coming and going
all the time, know me as the doctor's daughter, and naturally call me
'Miss Stewart.' So it doesn't seem so queer when Mr. Keith does it."

"Good!" exclaimed Susan with glowing satisfaction. "An' now here's to
hopin' he won't never find out who you really be!"

"Is he so very bitter, then, against--Dorothy Parkman?" The girl asked
the question a little wistfully.

"He jest is," nodded Susan with unflattering emphasis. "If you'd heard
him when he jest persisted that he wouldn't have anybody that was
Dorothy Parkman's father even look at his eyes you'd have thought so,
I guess. An'--why, he even wrote about it 'way back last Christmas--I
mean, when he first told us about you. He said the doctor had a
daughter, an' she was all right; but he didn't like her at all at
first, 'cause her voice kept remindin' him of somebody he didn't want
to be reminded of."

"Did he really write--THAT?"

"Them's the identifyin' words," avowed Susan. "So you'll jest have to
keep it secret who you be, you see," she warned her.

"Yes, I--see," murmured the girl. All the pretty color had quite gone
from her face now, leaving it a little white and strained-looking.
"I'll try--to."

"Of course, when he gets back his sight he'll find out--that is, Miss
Dorothy, he IS going to get it back, ain't he?" Susan's own face now
had become a little white and strained-looking.

Miss Dorothy shook her head.

"I don't know, Susan; but I'm--afraid."

"Afraid! You don't mean he AIN'T goin' to?" Susan caught Miss
Dorothy's arm in a vise-like grip.

"No, no, not that; but we aren't--SURE. And--and the symptoms aren't
quite so good as they were," hurried on the girl a bit feverishly.

"But I thought he could see--light," faltered Susan.

"He could, at first, but it's been getting dimmer and dimmer, and
now"--the girl stopped and wet her lips--"there's to be a second
operation, you know. Father hopes to have it by Christmas, or before;
but I know father is afraid--that is--he thinks--"

"He don't like the way things is goin'," cut in Susan grimly. "Ain't
that about it?"

"I'm afraid it is," faltered Miss Dorothy, wetting her lips again.
"And when I think of that boy--" She turned away her head, leaving her
sentence unfinished.

"Well, we ain't goin' to think of it till it comes" declared Susan
stoutly. "An' then--well, if it does come, we've all got to set to an'
help him forget it. That's all."

"Yes, of--course," murmured the girl, turning away again. And this
time she turned quite away and went on down the street, leaving Susan
by the gate alone.

"Nice girl, an' a mighty pretty one, too," whispered Susan, looking
after the trim little figure in its scarlet cap and sweater. "An'
she's got a good kind heart in her, too, a-carin' like that about that
poor boy's bein'--"

Susan stopped short. A new look had come to her face--a look of
wonder, questioning, and dawning delight. "Lan' sakes, why hain't I
never thought of that before?" she muttered, her eyes still on the
rapidly disappearing little red figure down the street. "Oh, 'course
they're nothin' but babies now, but by an' by--! Still, if he ever
found out she was Dorothy Parkman, an' of course he'd have to find it
out if he married--Oh, lan' sakes, what fools some folks be!"

With which somewhat cryptic statement Susan turned and marched
irritably into the house.




CHAPTER XVII

DANIEL BURTON TAKES THE PLUNGE


Dr. Stewart's second operation on Keith's eyes took place late in
November. It was not a success. Far from increasing his vision, it
lessened it. Only dimly now could he discern light at all.

In a letter to Daniel Burton, Dr. Stewart stated the case freely and
frankly, yet he declared that he had not given up hope--yet. He had a
plan which, with Mr. Burton's kind permission, he would carry out. He
then went on to explain.

In Paris there was a noted specialist in whom he had great confidence.
He wished very much that this man could see Keith. To take Keith over
now, however, as war conditions were, would, of course, be difficult
and hazardous. Besides, as he happened to know, this would not be
necessary, for the great man was coming to this country some time in
May. To bring Keith to his attention then would be a simple matter,
and a chance well worth waiting for. Meanwhile, the boy was as
comfortable where he was as he could be anywhere, and, moreover, there
were certain treatments which should still be continued. With Daniel
Burton's kind permission, therefore, the doctor would keep Keith where
he was for the present, pending the arrival of the great specialist.

It was a bitter blow. For days after the letter came, Daniel Burton
shut himself up in his studio refusing to see any one but Susan, and
almost refusing to see her. Susan, indeed, heart-broken as she was
herself, had no time to indulge her own grief, so busy was she trying
to concoct something that would tempt her employer to break a fast
that was becoming terrifying to her.

Then came Keith's letter. He wrote cheerfully, hopefully. He told of
new games that he was playing, new things of interest that he was
"seeing." He said nothing whatever about the operation. He did say
that there was a big doctor coming from Paris, whom he was going to
"see" in May, however. That was all.

When the doctor's letter had come, telling of the failure of the
second operation, Susan had read it and accepted it with sternly
controlled eyes that did not shed one tear. But when Keith's letter
came, not even mentioning the operation, her self-control snapped, and
she burst openly into tears.

"I don't care," she sobbed, in answer to Daniel Burton's amazed
exclamation. "When I think of the way that blessed boy is holdin' up
his head an' marchin' straight on; an' you an' me here--oh, lan'
sakes, what's the use of TRYIN' to say it!" she despaired, turning and
hurrying from the room.

In December Dr. Stewart came on again to take his daughter back for
the holidays. He called at once to see Mr. Burton, and the two had a
long conference in the studio, while Susan feverishly moved from room
to room downstairs, taking up and setting down one object after
another in the aimless fashion of one whose fingers are not controlled
by the mind.

When the doctor had gone, Susan did not wait for Daniel Burton to seek
her out. She went at once to the studio.

"No, he had nothing new to say about Keith," began the man, answering
the agonized question in her eyes before her lips could frame the
words.

"But didn't he say NOTHIN'?"

"Oh, yes, he said a great deal--but it was only a repetition of what
he had said before in the letter." Daniel Burton spoke wearily,
constrainedly. His face had grown a little white. "The doctor bought
the big sofa in the hall downstairs, and the dropleaf table in the
dining-room."

"Humph! But will he PAY anything for them things?"

"Yes, he will pay well for them. And--Susan."

"Yes, sir." Something in the man's face and voice put a curious note
of respect into Susan's manner as sudden as it was unusual.

"I've been intending to tell you for some time. I--I shall want
breakfast at seven o'clock to-morrow morning. I--I am going to work in
McGuire's store."

"You are goin' to--what?" Susan's face was aghast.

"To work, I said," repeated Daniel Burton sharply. "I shall want
breakfast at seven o'clock, Susan." He turned away plainly indicating
that for him the matter was closed.

But for Susan the matter was not closed.

"Daniel Burton, you ain't goin' to demean yourself like that!" she
gasped;--"an artistical gentleman like you! Why, I'd rather work my
hands to the bones--"

"That will do, Susan. You may go."

And Susan went. There were times when Susan did go.

But not yet for Susan was the matter closed. Only an hour later Mrs.
McGuire "ran over" with a letter from her John to read to Susan. But
barely had she finished reading the letter aloud, when the real object
of her visit was disclosed by the triumphant:

"Well, Susan Betts, I notice even an artist has to come down to bein'
a 'common storekeeper' sometimes."

Susan drew herself up haughtily.

"Of course, Mis' McGuire, 't ain't for me to pretense that I don't
know what you're inferrin' to. But jest let me tell you this: it don't
make no difference how many potatoes an' molasses jugs an' kerosene
cans Daniel Burton hands over the counter he won't never be jest a
common storekeeper. He'll be THINKIN' flowers an' woods an' sunsets
jest the same. Furthermore an' moreover, in my opinion it's a very
honorary an' praiseful thing for him to do, to go out in the hedges
an' byways an' earn money like that, when, if the world only knew
enough to know a good thing when they see it, they'd be buy in' them
pictures of his, an' not subjugate him to the mystification of earnin'
his bread by the sweat of his forehead."

"Oh, good gracious me, Susan Betts, how you do run on, when you get
started!" ejaculated Mrs. McGuire impatiently, yet laughingly. "An' I
might have known what you'd say, too, if I'd stopped to think. Well, I
must be goin', anyhow. I only came over to show you the letter from my
John. I'm sure I wish't was him comin' back to his old place behind
the counter instead of your Daniel Burton," she sighed. "I'd buy every
picture he ever painted (if I had the money), if 't would only bring
my John back, away from all those awful bombs an' shells an' shrapnel
that he's always writin' about."

"Them be nice letters he writes, I'm free to confess," commented Susan
graciously. "Not that they tell so much what he's doin', though; but I
s'pose they're censured, anyhow--all them letters be."

Mrs. McGuire, her eyes dreamily fixed out the window, nodded her head
slowly.

"Yes, I s'pose so; but there's a lot left--there's always a lot left.
And everything he writes I can just see. It was always like that with
my John. Let him go downtown an' come back--you'd think he'd been to
the circus, the wonderful things he'd tell me he'd seen on the way.
An' he'd set 'em out an' describe 'em until I could just see 'em
myself! I'll never forget. One day he went to a fire. The old Babcock
house burned, an' he saw it. He was twelve years old. I was sick in
bed, an' he told me about it. I can see him now, standin' at the foot
of the bed, his cheeks red, his eyes sparklin' an' his little hands
flourishin' right an' left in his excitement. As he talked, I could
just see that old house burn. I could hear the shouts of the men, the
roar an' cracklin' of the flames, an' see 'em creepin', creepin',
gainin', gainin'-! Oh, it was wonderful--an' there I was right in my
own bed, all the time. It was just the way he told it. That's why I
know he could have been a writer. He could make others see--
everything. But now--that's all over now. He'll never be--anything. I
can see him. I can see all that horrible battle-field with the reelin'
men, the flames, the smoke, the burstin' shells, an', oh, God--my
John! Will he ever, ever come back--to me?"

"There, there, Mis' McGuire, I jest wouldn't--" But Mrs. McGuire, with
a shake of her head, and her eyes half covered with her hand, turned
away and stumbled out of the kitchen.

Susan, looking after her, drew a long sigh.

     "Worry never climbed a hill,
       Worry never--

There's some times when it's frank impertinence to tell folks not to
worry," she muttered severely to herself, attacking the piled-up
dishes before her.

Daniel Burton went to work in McGuire's grocery store the next
morning, after a particularly appetizing breakfast served to him by a
silent, red-eyed, but very attentive Susan.

"An' 'twas for all the world like a lamb to the slaughter-house,"
Susan moaned to the law-student lodger when she met him on the stairs
at eight o'clock that morning. "An' if you want to see a real
slaughter-house, you jest come in here," she beckoned him, leading the
way to the studio.

"But--but--that is--well--" stammered the young fellow, looking not a
little startled as he followed her, with half-reluctant feet.

In the studio Susan flourished accusing arms.

"Look at that, an' that, an' that!" she cried. "Why, it's like jest
any extraordinary common-sense room now, that anybody might have, with
them pictures all put away, an' his easel hid behind the door, an' not
a brush or a cube of paint in sight--an' him dolin' out vinegar an'
molasses down to that old store. I tell you it made me sick, Mr.
Jenkins, sick!"

"Yes, yes, that's so," murmured Mr. Jenkins, vaguely.

"Well, it did. Why, it worked me up so I jest sat right down an' made
up a poem on it. I couldn't help it. An' it came easy, too--'most like
the spontaneous combustion kind that I used to write, only I made it
free verse. You know that's all the rage now. Like this," she
finished, producing from somewhere about her person a half-sheet of
note-paper.

     "Alone an' dark
      The studio
      Waited:
      Waited for the sun of day.
      But when it rose,
      Alas!
      No lovely pictures greeted
      The fiery gob.
      Only their backs showed
      White an' sorry an' some dusty.
      No easel sprawled long legs
      To trip
      An' make you slip.
      No cubes of pig-lent gray
      Or black,
      Nor any other color lent brightness
      To this dank world.
      An' he--the artist? The bright soul who
      Bossed this ranch?
      Alas!
      Doomed to hide his bright talons
      In smelly kegs of kerosene
      An' molasses brown an' sticky.
      Alas, that I should see an'
      Know this
      Day.

There, now, ain't that about the way 'tis?" she demanded feelingly.

"Er--yes, yes, it is. That's so." Mr. Jenkins was backing out of the
room and looking toward the stairway. Mr. Jenkins had been a member of
the Burton household long enough to have learned to take Susan at her
own valuation, with no questions asked. "Yes, that's so," he repeated,
as he plunged down the stairs.

To Daniel Burton himself Susan made no further protests or even
comments--except the silent comment of eager service with some
favorite dish for every meal. As Christmas drew near, and Daniel
Burton's hours grew longer, Susan still made no audible comment; but
she redoubled her efforts to make him comfortable the few hours left
to him at home.




CHAPTER XVIII

"MISS STEWART"


It was just after Christmas that another letter came from Keith. It
was addressed as usual to Susan. Keith had explained in his second
letter that he was always going to write to Susan, so that she might
read it to his father, thus saving him the disagreeableness of seeing
how crooked and uneven some of his lines were. His father had
remonstrated--feebly; but Keith still wrote to Susan.

Keith had been improving in his writing very rapidly, however, since
those earliest letters, and most of his letters now were models of
even lines and carefully formed characters. But this letter Susan saw
at once was very different. It bore unmistakable marks of haste,
agitation, and lack of care. It began abruptly, after the briefest of
salutations:

Why didn't you tell me you knew Miss Stewart? She says she knows you
real well, and father, too, and that she's been to the house lots of
times, and that she's going back to Hinsdale next week, and that she
is going to school there this year, and will graduate in June.

Oh, she didn't tell me all this at once, you bet your sweet life. I
had to worm it out of her little by little. But what I want to know
is, why you folks didn't tell me anything about it--that you knew her,
and all that? But you never said a word--not a word. Neither you nor
dad. But she says she knows dad real well. Funny dad never mentioned
it!

Miss Stewart sure is a peach of a girl all right and the best ever to
me. She's always hunting up new games for me to play. She's taught me
two this time, and she's read two books to me. There's a new fellow
here named Henty, and we play a lot together. I am well, and getting
along all right. Guess that's all for this time. Love to all.
                              KEITH
P.S. Now don't forget to tell me why you never said a thing that you
knew Miss Stewart.
                 K.

"Well, now I guess the kettle is in the fire, all right!" ejaculated
Susan, folding the letter with hands that shook a little.

"What do you mean?" asked Daniel Burton.

"Why, about that girl, of course. He'll find out now she's Dorothy
Parkman. He can't help findin' it out!" "Well, what if he does?"
demanded the man, a bit impatiently.

"'What if he does?'" repeated Susan, with lofty scorn. "I guess you'll
find what 'tis when that boy does find out she's Dorothy Parkman, an'
then won't have nothin' more to do with her, nor her father, nor her
father's new doctor, nor anything that is hers."

"Nonsense, Susan, don't be silly," snapped the man, still more
irritably. "'Nor her father, nor her father's new doctor, nor anything
that is hers,' indeed! You sound for all the world as if you were
chanting a catechism! What's the matter? Doesn't the boy like Miss
Dorothy?"

"Why, Daniel Burton, you know he don't! I told you long ago all about
it, when I explained how we'd got to give her father a resumed name,
so Keith wouldn't know, an'--"

"Oh, THAT! What she said about not wanting to see blind people?
Nonsense, Susan, that was years ago, when they were children! Why,
Keith's a man, nearly. You're forgetting--he'll be eighteen next June,
Susan."

"That's all right, Mr. Burton." Susan's lips snapped together grimly
and her chin assumed its most defiant tilt. "I ain't sayin' he ain't.
But there's some cases where age don't make a mite of difference, an'
you'll find this is one of 'em. You mark my words, Daniel Burton. I
have seen jest as big fools at eighteen, an' eighty, for that matter,
as I have at eight. 'T ain't a matter of decree at all. Keith Burton
got it into his head when he was first goin' blind that Dorothy
Parkman would hate to look at him if ever he did get blind; an' he
just vowed an' determined that if ever he did get that way, she
shouldn't see him. Well, now he's blind. An' if you think he's forgot
what Dorothy Parkman said, you'd oughter been with me when she came to
see him with Mazie Sanborn one day, or even when they just called up
to him on the piazza one mornin'."

"Well, well, very likely," conceded the man irritably; "but I still
must remind you, Susan, that all this was some time ago. Keith's got
more sense now." "Maybe--an' then again maybe not. However, we'll see
--what we will see," she mumbled, as she left the room with a little
defiant toss of her head.

Susan did not answer Keith's letter at once. Just how she was going to
answer that particular question concerning their acquaintance with
"Miss Stewart" she did not know, nor could she get any assistance from
Daniel Burton on the subject.

"Why, tell him the truth, of course," was all that Daniel Burton would
answer, with a shrug, in reply to her urgent appeals for aid in the
matter. This, Susan, in utter horror, refused to do.

"But surely you don't expect to keep it secret forever who she is, do
you?" demanded Daniel Burton scornfully one day.

"Of course I don't. But I'm going to keep it jest as long as I can,"
avowed Susan doggedly. "An' maybe I can keep it--till he gets his
blessed eyes back. I shan't care if he does find out then."

"I don't think--we'll any of us--mind anything then, Susan," said the
man softly, a little brokenly. And Susan, looking into his face,
turned away suddenly, to hide her own.

That evening Susan heard that Dorothy Parkman was expected to arrive
in Hinsdale in two days.

"I'll jest wait, then, an' intervene the young lady my own self," she
mused, as she walked home from the post-office. "This tryin' to settle
Dorothy Parkman's affairs without Dorothy Parkman is like havin'
omelet with omelet left out," she finished, nodding to herself all in
the dark, as she turned in at the Burton gateway.

Dorothy Parkman came two days later. As was usual now she came at once
to the house. Susan on the watch, met her at the door, before she
could touch the bell.

"Come in, come in! My, but I'm glad to see you!" exclaimed Susan
fervently, fairly pulling her visitor into the house. "Now tell me
everything---every single thing."

"Why, there isn't much to tell, Susan. Mr. Keith is about the same,
and--"

"No, no, I mean--about YOU" interrupted Susan, motioning the girl to a
chair, and drawing her own chair nearer. "About your bein' in Hinsdale
an' knowin' us, an' all that, an' his finding it out."

"Oh, THAT!" The color flew instantly into Miss Dorothy's cheeks. "Then
he's--he's written you?"

"Written us! I should say he had! An' he wants to know why we hain't
told him we know you. An', lan' sakes, Miss Dorothy, what can we tell
him?"

"I--I don't know, Susan."

"But how'd you get in such a mess? How'd he find out to begin with?"
demanded the woman.

Miss Dorothy drew a long sigh. "Oh, it was my fault, of course. I--
forgot. Still, it's a wonder I hadn't forgotten before. You see,
inadvertently, I happened to drop a word about Mr. Burton. 'Do you
know my dad?' he burst out. Then he asked another and another
question. Of course, I saw right away that I must turn it off as if I
supposed he'd known it all the time. It wouldn't do to make a secret
of it and act embarrassed because he'd found it out, for of course
then he'd suspect something wrong right away."

"Yes, yes, I s'pose so," admitted Susan worriedly. "But, lan' sakes,
look at us! What are we goin' to say? Now he wants to know why we
hain't told him about knowin' you."

"I don't know, Susan, I don't know." The girl shook her head and
caught her breath a bit convulsively. "Of course, when I first let it
go that I was 'Miss Stewart,' I never realized where it was going to
lead, nor how--how hard it might be to keep it up. I've been expecting
every day he'd find out, from some one there. But he hasn't--yet. Of
course, Aunt Hattie, who keeps house for father, is in the secret, and
SHE'D never give it away. Most of the patients don't know much about
me, anyway. You see, I've never been there much. They just know
vaguely of 'the doctor's daughter,' and they just naturally call her
'Miss Stewart.'"

"Yes, yes, I see, I see," nodded Susan, again still worriedly. "But
what I'm thinkin' of is US, Miss Dorothy. How are we goin' to get
'round not mentionin' you all this time, without his findin' out who
you be an' demandin' a full exposition of the whole affair. Say, look
a-here, would it be--be very bad if he DID find out you was Dorothy
Parkman?"

"I'm afraid--it would be, Susan." The girl spoke slowly, a bit
unsteadily. She had gone a little white at the question.

"Has he SAID anything?"

"Nothing, only he--When we were talking that day, and he was flinging
out those questions one after another, about Hinsdale, and what I knew
of it, he--he asked if I knew Dorothy Parkman."

"Miss Dorothy, he didn't!"

"But he did. It was awful, Susan. I felt like--like--"

"Of course you did," interposed Susan, her face all sympathy, "a-
sailin' under false premises like that, an' when you were perfectly
innocuous, too, of any sinfulness, an' was jest doing it for his best
good an' peace of mind. Lan' sakes, what a prediction to be in! What
DID you say?"

"Why, I said yes, of course. I had to say yes. And I tried to turn it
off right away, and not talk any more about it. But that was easy,
anyway, for--for Mr. Keith himself dropped it. But I knew, by the way
he looked, and said 'yes, I know her, too,' in that quiet, stern way
of his, that--that I'd better not let him find out I was she--not if I
wanted to--to stay in the room," she finished, laughing a little
hysterically.

"Lan' sakes, you don't say!" frowned Susan.

"Yes; and so that's what makes me know that whatever you do, you
mustn't let him know that I am Dorothy Parkman," cried the girl
feverishly; "not now--not until he's seen the Paris doctor, for
there's no knowing what he'd do. He'd be so angry, you see. He'd never
forgive me, for on top of all the rest is the deceit--that I've been
with him all these different times, and let him call me 'Miss
Stewart.'"

"But how can we do that?" demanded Susan.

"Why, just turn it off lightly. Say, of course, you know me; and seem
surprised that you never happened to mention it before. Tell him, oh,
yes, I come quite often to tell you and Mr. Burton how he's getting
along, and all that. Just make nothing of it--take it as a matter of
course, not worth mentioning. See? Then go on and talk about something
else. That'll fix it all right, I'm sure, Susan."

"Hm-m; maybe so, an' then again maybe not," observed Susan, with
frowning doubt. "As I was tellin' Mr. Burton this mornin' we've got to
be 'specially careful about Keith jest now. It's the most
hypercritical time there can be--with him waitin' to see that big
doctor, an' all--an' he mustn't be upset, no matter what happens, nor
how many white lies we have to prognosticate here at home."

"I guess that's so, Susan." Miss Dorothy's eyes were twinkling now.
"And, by the way, where is Mr. Burton? I haven't seen him yet."

"He ain't here."

"You don't mean he has gone out of town?" The girl had looked up in
surprise at the crisp terseness of Susan's reply.

"Oh, no, he's--in Hinsdale."

"Painting any new pictures these days?" Miss Dorothy was on her feet
to go. She asked the question plainly not for information, but to fill
the embarrassing pause that Susan's second reply had brought to the
conversation.

"No, he ain't," spoke up Susan with a vehemence as disconcerting as it
was sudden. "He ain't paintin' nothin', an' he ain't drawin' nothin'
neither--only molasses an' vinegar an' kerosene. He's clerkin' down to
McGuire's grocery store, if you want to know. That's where he is."

"Why--SUSAN!"

"Yes, I know. You don't have to say nothin', Miss Dorothy. Besides, I
wouldn't let you say it if you did. I won't let nobody say it but me.
But I will say this much. When folks has set one foot in the cemetery,
an' a lame one at that, an' can't see nor hear nor think straight, I
don't think it's no hilarious offense to wish they'd hurry up an' get
to where they could have all them handy facilities back again, an'
leave their money to folks what has got their full complaint of
senses, ready to enjoy life, if they get a chance. Oh, yes, I know you
don't know what I'm talkin' about, an' perhaps it's jest as well you
don't, Miss Dorothy. I hadn't oughter said it, anyhow. Well, I s'pose
I've got to go write that letter to Keith now. Seein' as how you've
come I can't put it off no longer. Goodness only knows, though, what
I'm goin' to say," she sighed, as her visitor nodded back a wistful-
eyed good-bye.




CHAPTER XIX

A MATTER OF LETTERS


Susan said afterward, in speaking of that spring, that "'twas nothin'
but jest one serious of letters." And, indeed, life did seem to be
mostly made up of letters.

At the sanatorium Keith was waiting for spring and the new doctor; and
that the waiting was proving to be a little nerve-racking was proved
by the infrequency of his letters home, and the shortness and
uncommunicativeness of such as did come.

Letters to him from Hinsdale were longer and were invariably bright
and cheery. Yet they did not really tell so much, after all. To be
sure, they did contain frequent reference to "your Miss Stewart," and
gave carefully casual accounts of what she did and said. In the very
first letter Susan had hit upon the idea of always referring to the
young lady as "your Miss Stewart."

"Then we won't be tellin' no lies," she had explained to Mr. Burton,
'"cause she IS his 'Miss Stewart.' See? She certainly don't belong to
no one else under that name--that's sure!"

But however communicative as regards "Miss Stewart" the letters were,
they were very far from that as regarded some other matters. For
instance: neither in Daniel Burton's letters, nor in Susan's, was
there any reference to the new clerk in McGuire's grocery store. So
far as anything that Keith knew to the contrary, his father was still
painting unsalable pictures in the Burton home-stead studio.

But even these were not all the letters that spring. There were the
letters of John McGuire from far-away France--really wonderful
letters--letters that brought to the little New England town the very
breath of the battle-field itself, the smell of its smoke, the shrieks
of its shells. And with Mr. Burton, with Susan, with the whole
neighborhood indeed, Mrs. McGuire shared them. They were even printed
occasionally in the town's weekly newspaper. And they were talked of
everywhere, day in and day out. No wonder, then, that, to Susan, the
spring seemed but a "serious of letters."

It was in May that the great Paris doctor was expected; but late in
April came a letter from Dr. Stewart saying that, owing to war
conditions, the doctor had been delayed. He would not reach this
country now until July--which meant two more months of weary waiting
for Keith and for Keith's friends at home.

It was just here that Susan's patience snapped.

"When you get yourself screwed up to stand jest so much, an' then they
come along with jest a little more, somethin's got to break, I tell
you. Well, I've broke."

Whether as a result of the "break" or not, Susan did not say, neither
did she mention whether it was to assuage her own grief or to
alleviate Keith's; but whatever it was, Susan wrote these verses and
sent them to Keith:

  BY THE DAY

 When our back is nigh to breakin',
 An' our strength is nearly gone,
 An' along there comes the layin'
 Of another burden on--

 If we'll only jest remember,
 No matter what's to pay,
 That 'tisn't yet December,
 An' we're livin' by the day.

'Most any one can stand it--
 What jest TO-DAY has brought.
 It's when we try to lump it,
 An' take it by the lot!

 Why, any back would double,
 An' any legs'll bend,
 If we pile on all the trouble
 Meant to last us till the end!

 So if we'll jest remember,
 Half the woe from life we'll rob
 If we'll only take it "by the day,"
 An' not live it "by the job."

"Of course that ''tisn't yet December' is poem license, and hain't
really got much sense to it," wrote Susan in the letter she sent with
the verses. "I put it in mostly to rhyme with 'remember.' (There
simply wasn't a thing to rhyme with that word!) But, do you know,
after I got it down I saw it really could mean somethin', after all--
kind of diabolical-like for the end of life, you know, like December
is the end of the year.

"Well, anyhow, they done me lots of good, them verses did, an' I hope
they will you."

In June Dorothy Parkman was graduated from the Hinsdale Academy. Both
Mr. Burton and Susan attended the exercises, though not together. Then
Susan sat down and wrote a glowing account of the affair to Keith,
dilating upon the fine showing that "your Miss Stewart" made.

"It can't last forever, of course--this subtractin' Miss Stewart's
name for Dorothy Parkman," she said to Mr. Burton, when she handed him
the letter to mail. "But I'm jest bound an' determined it shall last
till that there Paris doctor gets his hands on him. An' she ain't
goin' back now to her father's for quite a spell--Miss Dorothy, I
mean," further explained Susan. "I guess she don't want to take no
chances herself of his findin' out--jest yet," declared Susan, with a
sage wag of her head. "Anyhow, she's had an inspiration to go see a
girl down to the beach, an' she's goin'. So we're safe for a while.
But, oh, if July'd only hurry up an' come!"

And yet, when July came--

They were so glad, afterward, that Dr. Stewart wrote the letter that
in a measure prepared them for the bad news. He wrote the day before
the operation. He said that the great oculist was immensely interested
in the case and eager to see what he could do--though he could hold
out no sort of promise that he would be able to accomplish the desired
results. Dr. Stewart warned them, therefore, not to expect anything--
though, of course, they might hope. Hard on the heels of the letter
came the telegram. The operation had been performed--and had failed,
they feared. They could not tell surely, however, until the bandages
were removed, which would be early in August. But even if it had
failed, there was yet one more chance, the doctor wrote. He would say
nothing about that, however, until he was obliged to.

In August he wrote about it. He was obliged to. The operation had been
so near a failure that they might as well call it that. The Paris
oculist, however, had not given up hope. There was just one man in the
world who might accomplish the seemingly impossible and give back
sight to Keith's eyes--at least a measure of sight, he said. This man
lived in London. He had been singularly successful in several of the
few similar cases known to the profession. Therefore, with their kind
permission, the great Paris doctor would take Keith back with him to
his brother oculist in London. He would like to take ship at once, as
soon as arrangements could possibly be made. There would be delay
enough, anyway, as it was. So far as any question of pay was
concerned, the indebtedness would be on their side entirely if they
were privileged to perform the operation, for each new case of this
very rare malady added knowledge of untold value to the profession,
hence to humanity in general. He begged, therefore, a prompt word of
permission from Keith's father.

"Don't you give it, don't you give it!" chattered Susan, with white
lips, when the proposition was made clear to her.

"Why, Susan, I thought you'd be willing to try anything, ANYTHING--for
Keith's sake."

"An' so I would, sir, anything in season. But not this. Do you think
I'd set that blessed boy afloat on top of them submarines an' gas-
mines, an' to go to London for them German Zepherin's to rain down
bombs an' shrapnel on his head, an' he not bein' able to see a thing
to dodge 'em when he sees 'em comin'? Why, Daniel Burton, I'm ashamed
of you--to think of it, for a minute!"

"There, there, Susan, that will do. You mean well, I know; but this is
a matter that I shall have to settle for myself, for myself," he
muttered with stern dignity, rising to his feet. Yet when he left the
room a moment later, head and shoulders bowed, he looked so old and
worn that Susan, gazing after him, put a spasmodic hand to her throat.

"An' I jest know I'm goin' to lose 'em both now," she choked as she
turned away.

Keith went to London. Then came more weeks of weary, anxious waiting.
Letters were not so regular now, nor so frequent. Definite news was
hard to obtain. Yet in the end it came all too soon--and it was
piteously definite.

Keith was coming home. The great London doctor, too, had--failed.




CHAPTER XX

WITH CHIN UP


Keith came in April. The day before he was expected, Susan, sweeping
off the side porch, was accosted by Mrs. McGuire.

It was the first warm spring-like day, and Mrs. McGuire, bareheaded
and coatless, had opened the back-yard gate and was picking her way
across the spongy turf.

"My, but isn't this a great day, Susan!" she called, with an ecstatic,
indrawn breath. "I only wish it was as nice under foot."

"Hain't you got no rubbers on?" Susan's disapproving eyes sought Mrs.
McGuire's feet.

Mrs. McGuire laughed lightly.

"No. That's the one thing I leave off the first possible minute. Some
way, I feel as if I was helpin' along the spring."

"Humph! Well, I should help along somethin' 'sides spring, I guess, if
I did it. Besides, it strikes me rubbers ain't the only thing you're
leavin' off." Susan's disapproving eyes had swept now to Mrs.
McGuire's unprotected head and shoulders.

"Oh, I'm not cold. I love it. As if this glorious spring sunshine
could do any one any harm! Susan, it's LIEUTENANT McGuire, now! I came
over to tell you. My John's been promoted."

"Sho, you don't say! Ain't that wonderful, now?" Susan's broom stopped
in midair,

"Not when you know my John!" The proud mother lifted her head a
little. "'For bravery an' valiant service'--Lieutenant McGuire! Oh
Susan, Susan, but I'm the proud woman this mornin'!"

"Yes, of course, of course, I ain't wonderin' you be!" Susan drew a
long sigh and fell to sweeping again.

Mrs. McGuire, looking into Susan's face, came a step nearer. Her own
face sobered.

"An' me braggin' like this, when you folks-! I know--you're thinkin'
of that poor blind boy. An' it's just to-morrow that he comes, isn't
it?"

Susan nodded dumbly.

"An' it's all ended now an' decided--he can't ever see, I s'pose,"
went on Mrs. McGuire. "I heard 'em talkin' down to the store last
night. It seems terrible."

"Yes, it does." Susan was sweeping vigorously now, over and over again
in the same place.

"I wonder how--he'll take it."

Susan stopped sweeping and turned with a jerk.

"Take it? He's got to take it, hain't he?" she demanded fiercely.
"He's GOT TO! An' things you've got to do, you do. That's all. You'll
see. Keith Burton ain't no quitter. He'll take it with his head up an'
his shoulders braced. I know. You'll see. Don't I remember the look on
his blessed face that day he went away, an' stood on them steps there,
callin' back his cheery good-bye?"

"But, Susan, there was hope then, an' there isn't any now--an' you
haven't seen him since. You forget that."

"No, I don't," retorted Susan doggedly. "I ain't forgettin' nothin'.
'But you'll see!"

"An' he's older. He realizes more. Why, he must be--How old is he,
anyway?"

"He'll be nineteen next June."

"Almost a man. Poor boy, poor boy--an' him with all these years of
black darkness ahead of him! I tell you, Susan, I never appreciated my
eyes as I have since Keith lost his. Seems as though anybody that's
got their eyes hadn't ought to complain of--anything. I was thinkin'
this mornin', comin' over, how good it was just to SEE the blue sky
an' the sunshine an' the little buds breakin' through their brown
jackets. Why, Susan, I never realized how good just seein' was--till I
thought of Keith, who can't never see again."

"Yes. Well, I've got to go in now, Mis' McGuire. Good-bye."

Words, manner, and tone of voice were discourtesy itself; but Mrs.
McGuire, looking at Susan's quivering face, brimming eyes, and set
lips, knew it for what it was and did not mistake it for--discourtesy.
But because she knew Susan would prefer it so, she turned away with a
light "Yes, so've I. Good-bye!" which gave no sign that she had seen
and understood.

Dr. Stewart came himself with Keith to Hinsdale and accompanied him to
the house. It had been the doctor's own suggestion that neither the
boy's father nor Susan should meet them at the train. Perhaps the
doctor feared for that meeting. Naturally it would not be an easy one.
Naturally too, he did not want to add one straw to Keith's already
grievous burden. So he had written:

I will come to the house. As I am a little uncertain as to the train I
can catch from Boston, do not try to meet me at the station.

"Jest as if we couldn't see through that subterranean!" Susan had
muttered to herself over the dishes that morning. "I guess he knows
what train he's goin' to take all right. He jest didn't want us to
meet him an' make a scenic at the depot. I wonder if he thinks I
would! Don't he think I knows anything?"

But, after all, it was very simple, very quiet, very ordinary. Dr.
Stewart rang the bell and Susan went to the door. And there they
stood: Keith, big and strong and handsome (Susan had forgotten that
two years could transform a somewhat awkward boy into so fine and
stalwart a youth); the doctor, pale, and with an apprehensive
uncertainty in his eyes.

"Well, Susan, how are you?" Keith's voice was strong and steady, and
the outstretched hand gripped hers with a clasp that hurt.

Then, in some way never quite clear to her, Susan found herself in the
big living-room with Keith and the doctor and Daniel Burton, all
shaking hands and all talking at once. They sat down then, and their
sentences became less broken, less incoherent. But they said only
ordinary things about the day, the weather, the journey home, John
McGuire, the war, the President's message, the entry of the United
States into the conflict. There was nothing whatever said about eyes
that could see or eyes that could not see, or operations that failed.

And by and by the doctor got up and said that he must go. To be sure,
the good-byes were a little hurriedly spoken, and the voices were at a
little higher pitch than was usual; and when the doctor had gone,
Keith and his father went at once upstairs to the studio and shut the
door.

Susan went out into the kitchen then and took up her neglected work.
She made a great clatter of pans and dishes, and she sang lustily at
her "mad song," and at several others. But every now and then, between
songs and rattles, she would stop and listen intently; and twice she
climbed halfway up the back stairs and stood poised, her breath
suspended, her anxious eyes on that closed studio door.

Yet supper that night was another very ordinary occurrence, with Keith
and his father talking of the war and Susan waiting upon them with a
cheerfulness that was almost obtrusive.

In her own room that night, however, Susan addressed an imaginary
Keith, all in the dark.

"You're fine an' splendid, an' I love you for it, Keith, my boy," she
choked; "but you don't fool your old Susan. Your chin is up, jest as I
said 'twould be, an' you're marchin' straight ahead. But inside, your
heart is breakin'. Do you think I don't KNOW? But we ain't goin' to
let each other KNOW we know, Keith, my boy. Not much we ain't! An' I
guess if you can march straight ahead with your chin up, the rest of
us can, all right. We'll see!"

And Susan was singing again the next morning when she did her
breakfast dishes.

At ten o'clock Keith came into the kitchen.

"Where's dad, Susan? He isn't in the studio and I've looked in every
room in the house and I can't find him anywhere." Keith spoke with the
aggrieved air of one who has been deprived of his just rights.

Susan's countenance changed. "Why, Keith, don't you--that is, your
father--Didn't he tell you?" stammered Susan.

"Tell me what?"

"Why, that--that he was goin' to be away."

"No, he didn't. What do you mean? Away where? How long?"

"Why, er--working."

"Sketching?--in this storm? Nonsense, Susan! Besides, he'd have taken
me. He always took me. Susan, what's the matter? Where IS dad?" A note
of uncertainty, almost fear, had crept into the boy's voice. "You're
keeping--SOMETHING from me."

Susan caught her breath and threw a swift look into Keith's unseeing
eyes. Then she laughed, hysterically, a bit noisily.

"Keepin' somethin' from you? Why, sure we ain't, boy! Didn't I jest
tell you? He's workin' down to McGuire's."

"WORKING! Down to MCGUIRE'S!" Keith plainly did not yet understand.

"Sure! An' he's got a real good position, too." Susan spoke jauntily,
enthusiastically.

"But the McGuires never buy pictures," frowned Keith, "or want--" He
stopped short. Face, voice, and manner underwent a complete change.
"Susan, you don't mean that dad is CLERKING down there behind that
grocery counter!"

Susan saw and recognized the utter horror and dismay in Keith's lace,
and quailed before it. But she managed in some way to keep her voice
still triumphant.

"Sure he is! An' he gets real good wages, too, an'--" But Keith with a
low cry had gone.

Before the noon dinner, however, he appeared again at the kitchen
door. His face was very white now.

"Susan, how long has dad been doing this?"

"Oh, quite a while. Funny, now! Hain't he ever told you?"

"No. But there seem to be quite a number of things that you people
haven't told me."

Susan winced, but she still held her ground jauntily.

"Oh, yes, quite a while," she nodded cheerfully. "An' he gets-"

"But doesn't he paint any more--at all?" interrupted the boy sharply.

"Why, no; no, I don't know that he does," tossed Susan airily. "An' of
course, if he's found somethin' he likes better--"

"Susan, you don't have to talk like that to me" interposed Keith
quietly. "I understand, of course. There are some things that can be
seen without--eyes."

"Oh, but honest, Keith, he--" But once again Keith had gone and Susan
found herself talking to empty air.

When Susan went into the dining-room that evening to wait at dinner,
she went with fear and trepidation, and she looked apprehensively into
the faces of the two men sitting opposite each other. But in the
kitchen, a few minutes later, she muttered to herself:

"Pooh! I needn't have worried. They've got sense, both of 'em, an'
they know that what's got to be has got to be. That's all. An' that it
don't do no good to fuss. I needn't have worried."

But Susan did worry. She did not like the look on Keith's face. She
did not like the nervous twitching of his hands. She did not like the
exaggerated cheerfulness of his manner.

And Keith WAS cheerful. He played solitaire with his marked cards and
whistled. He worked at his raised-picture puzzles and sang snatches of
merry song. He talked with anybody who came near him--talked very fast
and laughed a great deal. But behind the whistling and the singing and
the laughter Susan detected a tense strain and nervousness that she
did not like. And at times, when she knew Keith thought himself alone,
there was an expression on his face that disturbed Susan not a little.

But because, outwardly, it was all "cheerfulness," Susan kept her
peace; but she also kept her eyes on Keith.




CHAPTER XXI

THE LION


Keith had not been home a week before it was seen that Hinsdale was
inclined to make a lion of the boy.

Women brought him jelly and fruit, and men clapped him on the shoulder
and said, "How are you, my boy?" in voices that were not quite steady.
Young girls brought him flowers, and asked Susan if they could not
read or sing or do SOMETHING to amuse him. Children stood about the
gate and stared, talking in awe-struck whispers, happy if they could
catch a glimpse of his face at the window.

A part of this Susan succeeded in keeping from Keith--Susan had a
well-founded belief that Keith would not care to be a lion. But a
great deal of it came to his knowledge, of course, in spite of
anything she could do. However, she told herself that she need not
have worried, for if Keith had recognized it for what it was, he made
no sign; and even Susan herself could find no fault with his behavior.
He was cordial, cheery, almost gay, outwardly. But inwardly--

Susan was still keeping her eyes on Keith.

Mrs. McGuire came often to see Keith. She said she knew he would want
to hear John's letters. And there were all the old ones, besides the
new ones that came from time to time. She brought them all, and read
them to him. She talked about the young soldier, too, a great deal, to
the blind boy--She explained to Susan that she wanted to do everything
she could to get him out of himself and interest him in the world
outside; and that she didn't know any better way to do it than to tell
him of these brave soldiers who were doing something so really worth
while in the world.

"An' he's so interested--the dear boy!" she concluded, with a sigh.
"An' so brave! I think he's the bravest thing I ever saw, Susan
Betts."

"Yes, he is--brave," said Susan, a little shortly--so shortly that
Mrs. McGuire opened her eyes a bit, and wondered why Susan's lips had
snapped tight shut in that straight, hard line.

"But what ails the woman?" she muttered to herself, vexedly, as she
crossed the back yard to her own door. "Wasn't she herself always
braggin' about his bein' so brave? Humph! There's no such thing as
pleasin' some folks, it seems!" finished Mrs. McGuire as she entered
her own door.

But Mrs. McGuire was not the only frequent caller. There was Mazie
Sanborn.

Mazie began by coming every two or three days with flowers and fudge.
Then she brought the latest novel one day and suggested that she read
it to Keith.

Susan was skeptical of this, even fearful. She had not forgotten
Keith's frenzied avoidance of such callers in the old days. But to her
surprise now Keith welcomed Mazie joyously--so joyously that Susan
began to suspect that behind the joyousness lay an eagerness to
welcome anything that would help him to forget himself.

She was the more suspicious of this during the days that followed, as
she saw this same nervous eagerness displayed every time any one
called at the house. Susan's joy then at Keith's gracious response to
visitors' attentions changed to a vague uneasiness. Behind and beyond
it all lay an intangible something upon which Susan could not place
her finger, but which filled her heart with distrust. And so still she
kept her eyes on Keith.

In June Dorothy Parkman came to Hinsdale. She came at once to see
Susan. But she would only step inside the hall, and she spoke low and
hurriedly, looking fearfully toward the closed doors beyond the
stairway.

"I HAD to come--to see how he was," she began, a little breathlessly.
"And I wanted to ask you if you thought I could do any good or--or be
any help to him, either as Miss Stewart or Dorothy Parkman. Only I--I
suppose I would HAVE to be Dorothy Parkman now. I couldn't keep the
other up forever, of course. But I don't know how to tell--" She
stopped, and looked again fearfully toward the closed doors. "Susan,
how--how IS he?" she finished unsteadily.

"He's well--very well."

"He sees people--Mazie says he sees everybody now.

'Yes, oh, yes, he sees people."

'That's why I thought perhaps he wouldn't mind ME now--I mean the real
me," faltered the girl wistfully. "Maybe." Susan's sigh and frown
expressed doubt.

"But he's real brave," challenged the girl quickly. "Mazie SAID he
was."

"I know. Everybody says--he's brave." There was an odd constraint in
Susan's voice, but the girl was too intent on her own problem to
notice it.

"And that's why I hoped--about me, you know--that he wouldn't mind--
now. And, of course, it can't make any difference--about his eyes, for
he doesn't need father, or--or any one now." Her voice broke. "Oh,
Susan, I want to help, some way, if I can! WOULD he see me, do you
think?"

"He ought to. He sees everybody else."

"I know. Mazie says--"

"Does Mazie know about you?" interrupted Susan. "I mean, about your
being 'Miss Stewart'?"

"A little, but not much. I told her once that he 'most always called
me 'Miss Stewart,' but I never made anything of it, and I never told
her how much I saw of him out home. Some way, I--" She stopped short,
with a quick indrawing of her breath. In the doorway down the hall
stood Keith.

"Susan, I thought I heard--WAS Miss Stewart here?" he demanded
excitedly.

With only the briefest of hesitations and a half-despairing, half-
relieved look into Susan's startled eyes, the young girl hurried
forward.

"Indeed I'm here," she cried gayly, giving a warm clasp to his eagerly
outstretched hand "How do you do? Susan was just saying--."

But Susan was gone with upflung hands and a look that said "No, you
don't rake me into this thing, young lady!" as plainly as if she had
spoken the words themselves.

In the living-room a minute later, Keith began eager questioning.

"When did you come?"

"Yesterday."

"And you came to see me the very next day! Weren't you good? You knew
how I wanted to see you."

"Oh, but I didn't," she laughed a little embarrassedly. "You're at
home now, and you have all your old friends, and--"

"But they're not you. There's not any one like you," cut in the youth
fervently. "And now you're going to stay a long time, aren't you?"

"Y-yes, several weeks, probably."

"Good! And you'll come every day to see me?"

"W-well, as to that-"

"It's too much to ask, of course," broke off Keith contritely. "And,
truly, I don't want to impose on you."

"No, no, it isn't that," protested the girl quickly. "It's only--There
are so many--"

"But I told you there isn't anybody like you, Miss Stewart. There
isn't any one here that UNDERSTANDS--like you. And it was you who
first taught me to do--so many things." His voice faltered.

[Illustration: "YOU'VE HELPED MORE--THAN YOU'LL EVER KNOW"]

He paused, wet his lips, then plunged on hurriedly. "Miss Stewart, I
don't say this sort of thing very often. I never said it before--to
anybody. But I want you to know that I understood and appreciated just
what you were doing all those weeks for me out there at the
sanatorium. And it was the WAY you did it, with never a word or a hint
that I was different. You did things, and you made me do things,
without reminding me all the time that I was blind. I shall never
forget that first day when you told me dad would want to hear from me;
and then, before I could say a word, you put that paper in my hands,
and my fingers fell on those lines that I could feel. And how I
blessed you for not TELLING me those lines were there! Don't you see?
Everybody here, that comes to see me, TELLS me--the lines are there."

"Yes, I--know." The girl's voice was low, a little breathless.

"And that's why I need you so much. If anybody in the whole world can
make me forget for a minute, you can. You will come?"

"Why, of course, I'll come, and be glad to. You know I will. And I'm
so glad if I've helped--any!"

"You've helped more--than you'll ever know. But, come--look! I've got
a dandy new game here." And Keith, very obviously to hide the shake in
his voice and the emotion in his face, turned gayly to a little stand
near him and picked up a square cardboard box.

Half an hour later, Dorothy Parkman, passing through the hall on her
way to the outer door, was waylaid by Susan.

"Sh-h! Don't speak here, but come with me," she whispered, leading the
way through the diningroom. In the kitchen she stopped and turned
eagerly. "Well, did you tell him?" she demanded.

Miss Dorothy shook her head, mutely, despairingly.

"You mean he don't know yet that you're Dorothy Parkman?"

"I mean just that."

"But, child alive, he'll find out--he can't help finding out--now."

"I know it. But I just couldn't tell him--I COULDN'T, Susan. I tried
to do it two or three times. Indeed, I did. But the words just
wouldn't come. And now I don't know when I can tell him."

"But he was tickled to death to see you. He showed it, Miss Dorothy."

"I know." A soft pink suffused the young girl's face. "But it was
'Miss Stewart' he was glad to see, not Dorothy Parkman. And, after the
things he said--" She stopped and looked back over her shoulder toward
the room she had just left.

"But, Miss Dorothy, don't you see? It'll be all right, now. You've
SHOWN him that you don't mind being with blind folks a mite. So now he
won't care a bit when he knows you are Dorothy Parkman."

But the girl shook her head again.

"Yes, I know. He might not mind that part, PERHAPS; but I know he'd
mind the deceit all these long months, and it wouldn't be easy to--to
make him understand. He'd never forgive it--I know he wouldn't--to
think I'd taken advantage of his not being able to see."

"Nonsense! Of course he would."

"He wouldn't. You don't know. Just to-day he said something about--
about some one who had tried to deceive him in a little thing, because
he was blind; and I could see how bitter he was."

"But what ARE you goin' to do?"

"I don't know, Susan. It's harder than ever now," almost moaned the
girl.

"You're COMIN' AGAIN?"

"Yes, oh, yes. I shall come as long as he'll let me. I know he wants
me to. I know I HAVE helped a little. He spoke--beautifully about that
to-day. But, whether, after he finds out--" Her voice choked into
silence and she turned her head quite away.

"There, there, dear, don't you fret," Susan comforted her. "You jest
go home and think no more about it.

     When thinkin' won't mend it,
     Then thinkin' won't end it.

So what's the use? When you get ready, you jest come again; an' you
keep a-comin', too. It'll all work out right. You see if it don't."

"Thank you, Susan. Oh, I'll come as long as I can," sighed the girl,
turning to go. "But I'm not so sure how it'll turn out," she finished
with a wistful smile over her shoulder as she opened the door.




CHAPTER XXII

HOW COULD YOU, MAZIE?


As Miss Dorothy herself had said, it could not, of course, continue.
She came once, and once again to see Keith; and in spite of her
efforts to make her position clear to him, her secret still remained
her own. Then, on the third visit, the dreaded disclosure came,
naturally, and in the simplest, most unexpected way; yet in a way that
would most certainly have been the last choice of Miss Dorothy herself
could she have had aught to say about it.

The two, Keith and Dorothy, had had a wonderful hour over a book that
Dorothy had brought to read. They had been sitting on the porch, and
Dorothy had risen to go when there came a light tread on the front
walk and Mazie Sanborn tripped up the porch steps.

"Well, Dorothy Parkman, is this where you were?" she cried gayly. "I
was hunting all over the house for you half an hour ago."

"DOROTHY PARKMAN!" Keith was on his feet. His face had grown very
white.

Dorothy, too, her eyes on Keith's face, had grown very white; yet she
managed to give a light laugh, and her voice matched Mazie's own for
gayety.

"Were you? Well, I was right here. But I'm going now."

"You! but--Miss Stewart!" Keith's colorless lips spoke the words just
above his breath.

"Why, Keith Burton, what's the matter?" laughed Mazie. "You look as if
you'd seen a ghost. I mean--oh, forgive that word, Keith," she broke
off in light apology. "I'm always forgetting, and talking as if you
could really SEE. But you looked so funny, and you brought out that
'Dorothy Parkman' with such a surprised air. Just as if you didn't
ever call her that in the old school days, Keith Burton! Oh, Dorothy
told me you called her 'Miss Stewart' a lot now; but--"

"Yes, I have called her 'Miss Stewart' quite a lot lately," interposed
Keith, in a voice so quietly self-controlled that even Dorothy herself
was almost deceived. But not quite. Dorothy saw the clenched muscles
and white knuckles of his hands as he gripped the chair-back before
him; and she knew too much to expect him to offer his hand in good-
bye. So she backed away, and she still spoke lightly, inconsequently,
though she knew her voice was shaking, as she made her adieus.

"Well, good-bye, I must be going now, sure. I'll be over to-morrow,
though, to finish the book. Good-bye."

"Good-bye," said Keith.

And Dorothy wondered if Mazie noticed that he quite omitted a polite
"Come again," and if Mazie saw that as he said the terse "Good-bye" he
put both hands suddenly and resolutely behind his back. Dorothy saw
it, and at home, long hours later she was still crying over it.

She went early to the Burtons' the next forenoon.

"I came to finish the book I was reading to Mr. Keith," she told Susan
brightly, as her ring was answered. "I thought I'd come early before
anybody else got here."

She would have stepped in, but Susan's ample figure still barred the
way.

"Well, now, that's too bad!" Susan's voice expressed genuine concern
and personal disappointment. "Ain't it a shame? Keith said he wa'n't
feelin' nohow well this mornin', an' that he didn't want to see no
one. An' under no circumstances not to let no one in to see him. But
maybe if I told him't was you--"

"No, no, don't--don't do that!" cried the girl hurriedly. "I--I'll
come again some other time."

On the street a minute later she whispered tremulously: "He did it on
purpose, of course. He KNEW I would come this morning! But he can't
keep it up forever! He'll HAVE to see me some time. And when he does--
Oh, if only Mazie Sanborn hadn't blurted it out like that! Why didn't
I tell him? Why didn't I tell him? But I will tell him. He can't keep
this up forever."

When on a second and a third and a fourth morning, however, Dorothy
had found Susan's figure barring the way, and had received the same
distressed "He says he won't see no one, Miss Dorothy," from Susan's
plainly troubled lips, Dorothy began to think Keith did mean to keep
it up forever.

"But what IS it, Susan?" she faltered. "Is he sick, really sick?"

"I don't know, Miss Dorothy," frowned Susan. "But I don't like the
looks of it, anyhow. He says he ain't sick--not physicianly sick; but
he jest don't want to talk an' see folks. An' he's been like that
'most a week now. An' I'm free to confess I don't like it."

"But what does he do--all day?" asked the girl.

"Nothin', that I can see," sighed Susan profoundly. "Oh, he plays that
solitary some, an' putters a little with some of his raised books; but
mostly he jest sits still an' thinks. An' I don't like it. If only his
father was here. But with him gone peddlin' molasses, an' no one
'lowed into the house, there ain't anything for him to do but to
think. An' 'tain't right nor good for him. I've watched him an' I
know."

"But he used to see people, Susan."

"I know it. He saw everybody."

"Do you know why he won't--now?" asked the girl a little faintly.

"I hain't the faintest inception of an idea. It came as sudden as
that," declared Susan, snapping her finger.

"Then he hasn't said anything special about not wanting to see--me?"

"Why, no. He--Do you mean--HAS he found out?" demanded Susan,
interrupting herself excitedly.

"Yes. He found out last Monday afternoon. Mazie ran up on to the porch
and called me by name right out. Oh, Susan, it was awful. I shall
never forget the look on that boy's face as long as I live."

"Lan' sakes! MONDAY!" breathed Susan. "An' Tuesday he began refusin'
to see folks. Then 'course that was it. But why won't he see other
folks? They hain't anything to do with you."

"I don't know--unless he didn't want to tell you specially not to let
me in, and so he said not to let anybody in."

"Was he awful mad?"

"It wasn't so much anger as it was grief and hurt and--oh, I can't
express what it was. But I saw it; and I never shall forget it. You
see, to have it blurted out to him like that without any warning--and
of course he couldn't understand."

"But didn't you explain things--how 'twas, in the first place?"

She shook her head. "I couldn't--not with Mazie there. I said I'd come
the next morning to--to finish the book. I thought he'd understand I
was going to explain then. He probably did--and that's why he won't
let me in. He doesn't want any explanations," sighed the girl
tremulously.

"Well, he ought to want 'em," asserted Susan with vigor. "'Tain't fair
nor right nor sensible for him to act like this, makin' a mountain out
of an ant-hill. I declare, Miss Dorothy, he ought to be made to see
you."

The girl flushed and drew back.

"Most certainly not, Susan! I--I am not in the habit of MAKING people
see me, when they don't wish to. Do you suppose I'm going to beg and
tease: 'PLEASE won't you let me see you?' Hardly! He need not worry. I
shall not come again."

"Oh, Miss Dorothy!" remonstrated Susan.

"Why, of course I won't, Susan!" cried the girl. "Do you suppose I'm
going to keep him from seeing other people just because he's afraid
he'll have to let me in, too? Nonsense, Susan! Even you must admit I
cannot allow that. You may tell Mr. Keith, please, that he may feel no
further uneasiness. I shall not trouble him again."

"Oh, Miss Dorothy!" begged Susan agitatedly, once more.

But Miss Dorothy, with all the hurt dignity of her eighteen years,
turned haughtily away, leaving Susan impotent and distressed, looking
after her.

Two minutes later Susan sought Keith in the living-room. Her whole
self spelt irate determination--but Keith could not see that. Keith,
listless and idle-handed, sat in his favorite chair by the window.

"Dorothy Parkman jest rang the bell," began Susan, "an'-"

"But I said I'd see no one," interrupted Keith, instantly alert.

"That's what I told her, an' she's gone."

"Oh, all right." Keith relaxed into his old listlessness.

"An' she said to please tell you she'd trouble you no further, so you
might let in the others now as soon as you please."

Keith sat erect in his chair with a jerk.

"What did she mean by that?"

"I guess you don't need me to tell you," observed Susan grimly.

With a shrug and an irritable gesture Keith settled back in his chair.

"I don't care to discuss it, Susan. I don't wish to see ANY one. We'll
let it go at that, if you please," he said.

"But I don't please!" Susan was in the room now, close to Keith's
chair. Her face was quivering with emotion. "Keith, won't you listen
to reason? It ain't like you a mite to sit back like this an' refuse
to see a nice little body like Dorothy Parkman, what's been so kind--"

"Susan!" Keith was sitting erect again. His face was white, and
carried a stern anguish that Susan had never seen before. "I don't
care to discuss Miss Parkman with you or with anybody else. Neither do
I care to discuss the fact that I thoroughly understand, of course,
that you, or she, or anybody else, can fool me into believing anything
you please; and I can't--help myself."

"No, no, Keith, don't take it like that--please don't!"

"Is there any other way I CAN take it? Do you think 'Miss Stewart'
could have made such a fool of me if I'd had EYES to see Dorothy
Parkman?"

"But she was only tryin' to HELP you, an'--"

"I don't want to be 'helped'!" stormed the boy hotly. "Did it ever
occur to you, Susan, that I might sometimes like to HELP somebody
myself, instead of this everlastingly having somebody help me?"

"But you do help. You help me," asserted Susan feverishly, working her
nervous fingers together. "An' you'd help me more if you'd only let
folks in to see you, an'--"

"All right, all right," interrupted Keith testily. "Let them in. Let
everybody in. I don't care. What's the difference? But, please,
PLEASE, Susan, stop talking any more about it all now."

And Susan stopped. There were times when Susan knew enough to stop,
and this was one of them.

But she took him at his word, and when Mrs. McGuire came the next day
with a letter from her John, Susan ushered her into the living-room
where Keith was sitting alone. And Keith welcomed her with at least a
good imitation of his old heartiness.

Mrs. McGuire said she had such a funny letter to read to-day. She knew
he'd enjoy it, and Susan would, too, particularly the part that John
had quoted from something that had been printed by the British
soldiers in France and circulated among their comrades in the trenches
and hospitals, and everywhere. John had written it off on a separate
piece of paper, and this was it:

Don't worry: there's nothing to worry about.

You have two alternatives: either you are mobilized or you are not. If
not, you have nothing to worry about.

If you are mobilized, you have two alternatives: you are in camp or at
the front. If you are in camp, you have nothing to worry about.

If you are at the front, you have two alternatives: either you are on
the fighting line or in reserve. If in reserve, you have nothing to
worry about.

If you are on the fighting line, you have two alternatives: either you
fight or you don't. If you don't, you have nothing to worry about.

If you do, you have two alternatives: either you get hurt or you
don't. If you don't, you have nothing to worry about.

If you are hurt, you have two alternatives: either you are slightly
hurt or badly. If slightly, you have nothing to worry about.

If badly, you have two alternatives: either you recover or you don't.
If you recover, you have nothing to worry about. If you don't, and
have followed my advice clear through, you have done with worry
forever.

Mrs. McGuire was in a gale of laughter by the time she had finished
reading this; so, too, was Susan. Keith also was laughing, but his
laughter did not have the really genuine ring to it--which fact did
not escape Susan.

"Well, anyhow, he let Mis' McGuire in--an' that's somethin'," she
muttered to herself, as Mrs. McGuire took her departure. "Besides, he
talked to her real pleasant--an' that's more."

As the days passed, others came, also, and Keith talked with them. He
even allowed Dorothy Parkman to be admitted one day.

[Illustration: HE GAVE HER ALMOST NO CHANCE TO SAY ANYTHING HERSELF]

Dorothy had not come until after long urging on the part of Susan and
the assurance that Keith had said he would see her. Even then nothing
would have persuaded her, she told Susan, except the great hope that
she could say something, in some way, that would set her right in
Keith's eyes.

So with fear and trembling and with a painful embarrassment on her
face, but with a great hope in her heart, she entered the room and
came straight to Keith's side.

For a moment the exultation of a fancied success sent a warm glow all
through her, for Keith had greeted her pleasantly and even extended
his hand. But almost at once the glow faded and the great hope died in
her heart, for she saw that even while she touched his hand, he was
yet miles away from her.

He laughed and talked with her--oh, yes; but he laughed too much and
talked too much. He gave her almost no chance to say anything herself.
And what he said was so inconsequential and so far removed from
anything intimately concerning themselves, that the girl found it
utterly impossible to make the impassioned explanation which she had
been saying over and over again all night to herself, and from which
she had hoped so much.

Yet at the last, just before she bade him good-bye, she did manage to
say something. But in her disappointment and excitement and
embarrassment, her words were blurted out haltingly and ineffectually,
and they were not at all the ones she had practiced over and over to
herself in the long night watches; nor were they received as she had
palpitatingly pictured that they would be, with Keith first stern and
hurt, and then just dear and forgiving and UNDERSTANDING.

Keith was neither stern nor hurt. He still laughed pleasantly, and he
tossed her whole labored explanation aside with a light: "Certainly--
of course--to be sure--not at all! You did quite right, I assure you!"
And then he remarked that it was a warm day, wasn't it? And Dorothy
found herself hurrying down the Burton front walk with burning cheeks
and a chagrined helplessness that left her furious and with an
ineffably cheap feeling--yet not able to put her finger on any
discourteous flaw in Keith's punctilious politeness.

"I wish I'd never said a word--not a word," she muttered hotly to
herself as she hurried down the street. "I wonder if he thinks--I'll
ever open my head to him about it again. Well, he needn't--worry! But
--oh, Keith, Keith, how could you?" she choked brokenly. Then abruptly
she turned down a side street, lest Mazie Sanborn, coming toward her,
should see the big tears that were rolling down her cheeks.




CHAPTER XXIII

JOHN McGUIRE


So imperative was the knock at the kitchen door at six o'clock that
July morning that Susan almost fell down the back stairs in her haste
to obey the summons.

"Lan' sakes, Mis' McGuire, what a start you did give--why, Mis'
McGuire, what is it?" she interrupted herself, aghast, as Mrs.
McGuire, white-faced and wild-eyed, swept past her and began to pace
up and down the kitchen floor, moaning frenziedly:

"It's come--it's come--I knew't would come. Oh, what shall I do? What
shall I do?"

"What's come?"

"Oh, John, John, my boy, my boy!"

"You don't mean he's--dead?"

"No, no, worse than that, worse than that!" moaned the woman, wringing
her hands. "Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do?"

With a firm grasp Susan caught the twisting fingers and gently but
resolutely forced their owner into a chair.

"Do? You'll jest calm yourself right down an' tell me all about it,
Mis' McGuire. This rampagin' 'round the kitchen like this don't do no
sort of good, an' it's awful on your nerves. An' furthermore an'
moreover, no matter what't is that ails your John, it can't be worse'n
death; for while there's life there's hope, you know."

"But it is, it is, I tell you," sobbed Mrs. McGuire still swaying her
body back and forth. "Susan, my boy is--BLIND." With the utterance of
the dread word Mrs. McGuire stiffened suddenly into rigid horror, her
eyes staring straight into Susan's.

"MIS' MCGUIRE!" breathed Susan in dismay; then hopefully, "But maybe
'twas a mistake."

The woman shook her head. She went back to her swaying from side to
side.

"No, 'twas a dispatch. It came this mornin'. Just now. Mr. McGuire was
gone, an' there wasn't anybody there but the children, an' they're
asleep. That's why I came over. I HAD to. I had to talk to some one!"

"Of course, you did! An' you shall, you poor lamb. You shall tell me
all about it. What was it? What happened?"

"I don't know. I just know he's blind, an' that he's comin' home. He's
on his way now. My John--blind! Oh, Susan, what shall I do, what shall
I do?"

"Then he probably ain't sick, or hurt anywheres else, if he's on his
way home--leastways, he ain't hurt bad. You can be glad for that, Mis'
McGuire."

"I don't know, I don't know. Maybe he is. It didn't say. It just said
blinded," chattered Mrs. McGuire feverishly. "They get them home just
as soon as they can when they're blinded. We were readin' about it
only yesterday in the paper--how they did send 'em home right away.
Oh, how little I thought that my son John would be one of 'em--my
John!"

"But your John ain't the only one, Mis' McGuire. There's other Johns,
too. Look at our Keith here."

"I know, I know."

"An' I wonder how he'll take this--about your John?"

"HE'LL know what it means," choked Mrs. McGuire.

"He sure will--an' he'll feel bad. I know that. He ain't hisself,
anyway, these days."

"He ain't?" Mrs. McGuire asked the question abstractedly, her mind
plainly on her own trouble; but Susan, intent on HER trouble, did not
need even the question to spur her tongue.

"No, he ain't. Oh, he's brave an' cheerful. He's awful cheerful, even
cheerfuler than he was a month ago. He's too cheerful, Mis' McGuire.
There's somethin' back of it I don't like. He--"

But Mrs. McGuire was not listening. Wringing her hands she had sprung
to her feet and was pacing the floor again, moaning: "Oh, what shall I
do, what shall I do?" A minute later, only weeping afresh at Susan's
every effort to comfort her, she stumbled out of the kitchen and
hurried across the yard to her own door.

Watching her from the window, Susan drew a long sigh.

"I wonder how he WILL take--But, lan' sakes, this ain't gettin' my
breakfast," she ejaculated with a hurried glance at the clock on the
little shelf over the stove.

There was nothing, apparently, to distinguish breakfast that morning
from a dozen other breakfasts that had gone before. Keith and his
father talked cheerfully of various matters, and Susan waited upon
them with her usual briskness. If Susan was more silent than usual,
and if her eyes sought Keith's face more frequently than was her
habit, no one, apparently, noticed it. Susan did fancy, however, that
she saw a new tenseness in Keith's face, a new nervousness in his
manner; but that, perhaps, was because she was watching him so
closely, and because he was so constantly in her mind, owing to her
apprehension as to how he would take the news of John McGuire's
blindness.

From the very first Susan had determined not to tell her news until
after Mr. Burton had left the house. She could not have explained it
even to herself, but she had a feeling that it would be better to tell
Keith when he was alone. She planned, also, to tell him casually, as
it were, in the midst of other conversation--not as if it were the one
thing on her mind. In accordance with this, therefore, she forced
herself to finish her dishes and to set her kitchen in order before
she sought Keith in the living-room.

But Keith was not in the living-room; neither was he on the porch or
anywhere in the yard.

With a troubled frown on her face Susan climbed the stairs to the
second floor. Keith's room was silent, and empty, so far as human
presence was concerned. So, too, was the studio, and every other room
on that floor.

At the front of the attic stairs Susan hesitated. The troubled frown
on her face deepened as she glanced up the steep, narrow stairway.

She did not like to have Keith go off by himself to the attic, and
already now twice before she had found him up there, poking in the
drawers of an old desk that had been his father's. He had shut the
drawers quickly and had laughingly turned aside her questions when she
had asked him what in the world he was doing up there. And he had got
up immediately and had gone downstairs with her. But she had not liked
the look on his face. And to-day, as she hesitated at the foot of the
stairs, she was remembering that look. But for only a moment.
Resolutely then she lifted her chin, ran up the stairs, and opened the
attic door.

Over at the desk by the window there was a swift movement--but not so
swift that Susan did not see the revolver pushed under some loose
papers.

"Is that you, Susan?" asked Keith sharply. "Yes, honey. I jest came up
to get somethin'."

Susan's face was white like paper, and her hands were cold and
shaking, but her voice, except for a certain breathlessness, was
cheerfully steady. With more or less noise and with a running fire of
inconsequent comment, she rummaged among the trunks and boxes,
gradually working her way to, ward the desk where Keith still sat.

At the desk, with a sudden swift movement, she thrust the papers to
one side and dropped her hand on the revolver. At the same moment
Keith's arm shot out and his hand fell, covering hers.

She saw his young face flush and harden and his mouth set into stern
lines.

"Susan, you'll be good enough, please, to take your hand off that," he
said then sharply.

There was a moment's tense silence. Susan's eyes, agonized and
pleading, were on his face. But Keith could not see that. He could
only hear her words a moment later--light words, with a hidden laugh
in them, yet spoken with that same curious breathlessness.

"Faith, honey, an' how can I, with your own hand holdin' mine so
tight?"

Keith removed his hand instantly. His set face darkened.

"This is not a joke, Susan, and I shall have to depend on your honor
to let that revolver stay where it is. Unfortunately I am unable to
SEE whether I am obeyed or not."

It was Susan's turn to flush. She drew back at once, leaving the
weapon uncovered on the desk between them.

"I'm not takin' the pistol, Keith." The laugh was all gone from
Susan's voice now. So, too, was the breathlessness. The voice was
steady, grave, but very gentle. "We take matches an' pizen an' knives
away from CHILDREN--not from grown men, Keith. The pistol is right
where you can reach it--if you want it."

[Illustration: KEITH'S ARM SHOT OUT AND HIS HAND FELL, COVERING HERS]

She saw the fingers of Keith's hand twitch and tighten. Otherwise
there was no answer. After a moment she went on speaking.

"But let me say jest this: 'tain't like you to be a--quitter, Keith."
She saw him wince, but she did not wait for him to speak. "An' after
you've done this thing, there ain't any one in the world goin' to be
so sorry as you'll be. You mark my words."

It was like a sharp knife cutting a taut cord. The tense muscles
relaxed and Keith gave a sudden laugh. True, it was a short laugh, and
a bitter one; but it was a laugh.

"You forget, Susan. If--if I carried that out I wouldn't be in the
world--to care."

"Shucks! You'd be in some world, Keith Burton, an' you know it. An'
you'd feel nice lookin' down on the mess you'd made of THIS world,
wouldn't you?"

"Well, if I was LOOKING, I'd be SEEING, wouldn't I?" cut in the youth
grimly. "Don't forget, Susan, that I'd be SEEING, please."

"Seein' ain't everything, Keith Burton. Jest remember that. There is
some things you'd rather be blind than see. An' that's one of 'em.
Besides, seein' ain't the only sensible you've got, an' there's such a
lot of things you can do, an'--"

"Oh, yes, I know," interrupted Keith fiercely, flinging out both his
hands. "I can feel a book, and eat my dinner, and I can hear the
shouts of the people cheering the boys that go marching by my door.
But I'm tired of it all. I tell you I can't stand it--I CAN'T, Susan.
Yes, I know that's a cheap way out of it," he went on, after a choking
pause, with a wave of his hand toward the revolver on the desk;" and a
cowardly one, too. I know all that. And maybe I wouldn't have--have
done it to-day, even if you hadn't come. I found it last week, and it
--fascinated me. It seemed such an easy way out of it. Since then I've
been up here two or three times just to--to feel of it. Somehow I
liked to know it was here, and that, if--if I just couldn't stand
things another minute--

"But--I've tried to be decent, honest I have. But I'm tired of being
amused and 'tended to like a ten-year-old boy. I don't want flowers
and jellies and candies brought in to me. I don't want to read and
play solitaire and checkers week in and week out. I want to be over
there, doing a man's work. Look at Ted, and Tom, and Jack Green, and
John McGuire!"

"John McGuire!" It was a faltering cry from Susan, but Keith did not
even hear.

"What are they doing, and what am I doing? Yet you people expect me to
sit here contented with a dice-box and a deck of playing-cards, and be
GLAD I can do that much. Oh, well, I suppose I ought to be. But when I
sit here alone day after day and think and think--"

"But, Keith, we don't want you to do that," interposed Susan
feverishly. "Now there's Miss Dorothy--if you'd only let her--"

"But I tell you I don't want to be babied and pitied and 'tended to by
young women who are SORRY for me. _I_ want to do the helping part of
the time. And if I see a girl I--I could care for, I want to be able
to ask her like a man to marry me; and then if she says 'yes,' I want
to be able to take care of her myself--not have her take care of me
and marry me out of pity and feed me fudge and flowers! And there's--
dad."

Keith's voice broke and stopped. Susan, watching his impassioned face,
wet her lips and swallowed convulsively. Then Keith began again.

"Susan, do you know the one big thing that drives me up here every
time, in spite of myself? It's the thought of--dad. How do you suppose
I feel to think of dad peddling peas and beans and potatoes down to
McGuire's grocery store?--dad!"

Susan lifted her head defiantly.

"Well, now look a-here, Keith Burton, let me tell you that peddlin'
peas an' beans an' potatoes is jest as honorary as paintin' pictures,
an'--"

"I'm not saying it isn't," cut in the boy incisively. "I'm merely
saying that, as I happen to know, he prefers to paint pictures--and I
prefer to have him. And he'd be doing it this minute--if it wasn't for
his having to support me, and you know it, Susan."

"Well, what of it? It don't hurt him any."

"It hurts me, Susan. And when I think of all the things he hoped--of
me. I was going to be Jerry and Ned and myself; and I was going to
make him so proud, Susan, so proud! I was going to make up to him all
that he had lost. All day under the trees up on the hill, I used to
lie and dream of what I was going to be some day--the great pictures I
was going to paint--for dad. The great fame that was going to come to
me--for dad. The money I was going to earn--for dad: I saw dad, old
and white-haired, leaning on me. I saw the old house restored--all the
locks and keys and sagging blinds, the cracked ceilings and tattered
wallpaper--all made fresh and new. And dad so proud and happy in it
all--so proud and happy that perhaps he'd think I really had made up
for Jerry and Ned, and his own lost hopes.

"And, now, look at me! Useless, worse than useless--all my life a
burden to him and to everybody else. Susan, I can't stand it. I CAN'T.
That's why I want to end it all. It would be so simple--such an easy
way--out."

"Yes, 'twould--for quitters. Quitters always take easy ways out. But
you ain't no quitter, Keith Burton. Besides, 't wouldn't end it. You
know that. 'Twould jest be shuttin' the door of this room an' openin'
the one to the next. You've had a good Christian bringin' up, Keith
Burton, an' you know as well as I do that your eternal, immoral soul
ain't goin' to be snuffled out of existence by no pistol shot, no
matter how many times you pull the jigger."

Keith laughed--and with the laugh his tense muscles relaxed.

"All right, Susan," he shrugged a little grimly. "I'll concede your
point. You made it--perhaps better than you know. But--well, it isn't
so pleasant always to be the hook, you know," he finished bitterly.

"The--hook?" frowned Susan.

Keith laughed again grimly.

"Perhaps you've forgotten--but I haven't. I heard you talking to Mrs.
McGuire one day. You said that everybody was either a hook or an eye,
and that more than half the folks were hooks hanging on to somebody
else. And that's why some eyes had more than their share of hooks
hanging on to them. You see--I remembered. I knew then, when you said
it, that I was a hook, and--"

"Keith Burton, I never thought of you when I said that," interrupted
Susan agitatedly.

"Perhaps not; but _I_ did. Why, Susan, of course I'm a hook--an old,
bent, rusty hook. But I can hang on--oh, yes, I can hang on--to
anybody that will let me! But, Susan, don't you see?--sometimes it
seems as if I'd give the whole world if just for once I could feel
that I--that some one was hanging on to me! that I was of some use
somewhere."

"An' so you're goin' to be, honey. I know you be," urged Susan
eagerly. "Just remember all them fellers that wrote books an' give
lecturing an'--"

"Oh, yes, I know," interposed Keith, with a faint smile. "You were a
good old soul, Susan, to read me all those charming tales, and I
understood of course, what you were doing it for. You wanted me to go
and do likewise. But I couldn't write a book to save my soul, Susan,
and my voice would stick in my throat at the second word of a
'lecturing.'"

"But there'll be somethin', Keith, I know there'll be somethin'. God
never locked up the doors of your eyes without givin' you the key to
some other door. It's jest that you hain't found it yet."

"Perhaps. I certainly haven't found it--that's sure," retorted the lad
bitterly. "And just why He saw fit to send me this blindness--"

"We don't have to know," interposed Susan quickly; "an' questionin'
about it don't settle nothin', anyhow. If we've got it, we've got it,
an' if it's somethin' we can't possibly help, the only questionin'
worth anything then is how are we goin' to stand it. You see, there's
more'n one way of standin' things."

"Yes, I know there is." Keith stirred restlessly in his seat.

"An' some ways is better than others."

"There, there, Susan, I know just what you're going to say, and it's
all very true, of course," cried Keith, stirring still more
restlessly. "But you see T don't happen to feel like hearing it just
now. Oh, yes, I know I've got lots to be thankful for. I can hear, and
feel, and taste, and walk; and I should be glad for all of them. And I
am, of course. I should declare that all's well with the world, and
that both sides of the street are sunny, and that there isn't any
shadow anywhere. There, you see! I know all that you would say, Susan,
and I've said it, so as to save you the trouble."

"Humph!" commented Susan, bridling a little; then suddenly, she gave a
sly chuckle. "That's all very well an' good, Master Keith Burton, but
there's one more thing I would have said if I was doin' the sayin'!"

"Well?"

"About that both sides of the street bein' sunny--it seems to me that
the man what says, yes, he knows one side is shady an' troublous, but
that he thinks it'll be healthier an' happier for him an' everybody
else 'round him if he walks on the sunny side, an' then WALKS THERE--
it seems to me he's got the spots all knocked off that feller what
says there AIN'T no shady side!"

Keith gave a low laugh--a laugh more nearly normal than Susan had
heard him give for several days.

"All right, Susan, I'll accept your amendment and--we'll let it go
that one side is shady, and that I'm supposed to determinedly pick the
sunny side. Anything more?"

"M-more?"

"That you came up to say to me--yes. You know I have just saved you
the trouble of saying part of it."

"Oh!" Susan laughed light-heartedly. (This was Keith--her Keith that
she knew.) "No that's all I--" She stopped short in dismay! All the
color and lightness disappeared from her face, leaving it suddenly
white and drawn. "That is," she faltered, "there was somethin' else--I
was goin' to say, about--about John McGuire. He--"

"I don't care to hear it." Keith had frozen instantly into frigid
aloofness. Stern lines had come to his boyish mouth.

"But--but, Keith, Mrs. McGuire came over to-"

"To read another of those precious letters, of course," cut in Keith
angrily, "but I tell you I don't want to hear it. Do you suppose a
caged bird likes to hear of the woods and fields and tree-tops while
he's tied to a three-inch swing between two gilt bars? Well, hardly!
There's lots that I do have to stand, Susan, but I don't have to stand
that."

Susan caught her breath with a half sob.

"But, Keith, I wasn't going to tell you of--of woods an' fields an'
tree-tops this time. You see--now he's in a cage himself."

"What do you mean?"

"He's coming home. He's--blind."

Keith leaped from his chair.

"BLIND? JOHN McGUIRE?"

"Yes."

"Oh-h-h!" Long years of past suffering and of future woe filled the
short little word to bursting, as Keith dropped back into his chair.
For a moment he sat silent, his whole self held rigid. Then,
unsteadily he asked the question:

"What--happened?"

"They don't know. It was a dispatch that came this mornin'. He was
blinded, an' is on his way home. That's all."

"That's--enough."

"Yes, I knew you'd--understand."

"Yes, I do--understand."

Susan hesitated. Keith still sat, with his unseeing gaze straight
ahead, his body tense and motionless. On the desk within reach lay the
revolver. Cautiously Susan half extended her hand toward it, then drew
it back. She glanced again at Keith's absorbed face, then turned and
made her way quietly down the stairs.

At the bottom of the attic flight she glanced back. "He won't touch it
now, I'm sure," she breathed. "An', anyhow, we only take knives an'
pizen away from children--not grown men!"




CHAPTER XXIV

AS SUSAN SAW IT


It was the town talk, of course--the home-coming of John McGuire. Men
gathered on street corners and women clustered about back-yard fences
and church doorways. Children besieged their parents with breathless
questions, and repeated to each other in awe-struck whispers what they
had heard. Everywhere was horror, sympathy, and interested speculation
as to "how he'd take it."

Where explicit information was so lacking, imagination and surmise
eagerly supplied the details; and Mrs. McGuire's news of the blinding
of John McGuire was not three days old before a full account of the
tragedy from beginning to end was flying from tongue to tongue--an
account that would have surprised no one so greatly as it would have
surprised John McGuire himself.

To Susan, Dorothy Parkman came one day with this story.

"Well, 't ain't true," disavowed Susan succinctly when the lurid
details had been breathlessly repeated to her.

"You mean--he isn't blind?" demanded the young girl.

"Oh, yes, he's blind, all right, poor boy! But it's the rest I mean--
about his killin' twenty-eight Germans single-handed, an' bein' all
shot to pieces hisself, an' benighted for bravery."

"But what did happen?"

"We don't know. We just know he's blind an' comin' home. Mis' McGuire
had two letters yesterday from John, but--"

"From John--himself?"

"Yes; but they was both writ long before the apostrophe, an' 'course
they didn't say nothin' about it. He was well an' happy, he said. She
had had only one letter before these for a long time. An' now to have
--this!"

"Yes, I know. It's terrible. How does--Mr. Keith take it?"

Susan opened wide her eyes.

"Why, you've seen him--you see him yesterday yourself, Miss Dorothy."

"Oh, I saw him--in a way, but not the real him, Susan. He's miles away
now, always."

"You mean he ain't civil an' polite?" demanded Susan.

"Oh, he's very civil--too civil, Susan. Every time I go I say I won't
go again. Then, when I get to thinking of him sitting there alone all
day, and of how he used to like to have me read to him and play with
him, I--I just have to go and see if he won't be the same as he used
to be. But he never is."

"I know." Susan shook her head mournfully. "An' he ain't the same,
Miss Dorothy. He don't ever whistle nor sing now, nor play solitary,
nor any of them things he used to do. Oh, when folks comes in he
braces back an' talks an' laughs. YOU know that. But in the exclusion
of his own home here he jest sits an' thinks an' thinks an' thinks.
An', Miss Dorothy, I've found out now what he's thinkin' of."

"Yes?"

"It's John McGuire an' them other soldiers what's comin' back blind
from the war. An' he talks an' talks about 'em, an' mourns an' takes
on something dreadful. He says HE knows what it means, an' that nobody
can know what hain't had it happen to 'em. An' he broods an' broods
over it."

"I can--imagine it." The girl said it with a little catch in her
voice.

"An'--an' there's somethin' else I want to tell you about. I've got to
tell somebody. I want to know if you think I done right. An' you're
the only one I can tell. I've thought it all out. Daniel Burton is too
near, an' Mis' McGuire an' all them others is too far. You ain't a
relation, an' yet you care. You do care, don't you?--about Mr. Keith?"

"Why, of--of course. I care a great deal, Susan." Miss Dorothy spoke
very lightly, very impersonally; but there was a sudden flame of color
in her face. Susan, however, was not noticing this. Furtively she was
glancing one way and another over her shoulder.

"Yes. Well, the other day he--he tried to--that is, well, I--I found
him with a pistol in his hand, an'--"

"Susan!" The girl had gone very white.

"Oh, he didn't do it. Well, that ain't a very sensitive statement, is
it? For if he had done it, he wouldn't be alive now, would he?" broke
off Susan, with a faint smile. "But what I mean is, he didn't do it,
an' I don't think he's goin' to do it."

"But, oh, Susan," faltered the girl, "you didn't leave that--that
awful thing with him, did you? Didn't you take it--away?"

"No." Susan's mouth set grimly. "An' that's what I wanted to ask you
about--if I did right, you know."

"Oh, no, no, Susan! I'm afraid," shuddered the girl. "Can't you--get
it away--now?"

"Maybe. I know where 'tis. I was up there yesterday an' see it. 'T was
in the desk drawer in the attic, jest where it used to be."

"Then get it, Susan, get it. Oh, please get it," begged the girl. "I'm
afraid to have it there--a single minute."

"But, Miss Dorothy, stop; wait jest a minute. Think. How's he goin' to
get self-defiance an' make a strong man of hisself if we take things
away from him like he was a little baby?"

"I know, Susan; but if he SHOULD be tempted--"

"He won't. He ain't no more. I'm sure of that. I talked with him.
Besides, I hain't caught him up there once since that day last week.
Oh, I'm free to confess I HAVE watched him," admitted Susan
defensively, with a faint smile.

"But what did happen that day you--you found him?"

"Oh, he had it, handlin' it, an' when he heard me, he jumped a little,
an' hid it under some papers. My, Miss Dorothy, 'twas awful. I was
that scared an' frightened I thought I couldn't move. But I knew I'd
got to, an' I knew I'd got to move RIGHT, too, or I'd spoil
everything. This wa'n't no ten-cent melodydrama down to the movies,
but I had a humane soul there before me, an' I knew maybe it's whole
internal salvation might depend on what I said an' did."

"But what DID you say?"

"I don't know. I only know that somehow, when it was over, I had a
feelin' that he wouldn't never do that thing again. That somehow the
MAN in him was on top, an' would stay on top. An' I'm more sure than
ever of it now. He ain't thinkin' of hisself these days. It's John
McGuire and them others. An' ain't it better that he let that pistol
alone of his own free will an' accordance, an' know he was a man an'
no baby, than if I'd taken it away from him?"

"I suppose--it was, Susan; but I don't think I'd have been strong
enough--to make him strong."

"Yes, you would, if you'd been there. I reckon we're all goin' to
learn to do a lot of things we never did before, now that the war has
come."

"Yes, I know." A quivering pain swept across the young girl's face.

"Somehow, the war never seemed real to me before. 'T was jest
somethin' 'way off--a lot of Dagoes an' Dutchmen, like the men what
dug up the McGuires' frozen water-pipes last spring, fightin'. Not our
kind of folks what talked English. Even when I read the papers, an'
the awful things they did over there--it didn't seem as if 't was
folks on our earth. It was like somethin' you read about in them old
histronic days, or somethin' happenin' up on the moon, or on that
plantation of Mars. Oh, of course, I knew John McGuire had gone; but
somehow I never thought of him as fightin'--not with guns an' bloody
gore, in spite of them letters of his. Some way, in my mind's eyes I
always see him marchin' with flags flyin' an' folks cheerin'; an' I
thought the war'd be over, anyhow, by the time he got there.

"But, now--! Why, now they're all gone--our own Teddy Somers, an' Tom
Spencer, an' little Jacky Green that I used to hold on my knee. Some
of 'em in France, an' some of 'em in them army canteens down to Ayer
an' Texas an' everywhere. An' poor Tom's died already of pneumonia
right here in our own land. An' now poor John McGuire! I tell you,
Miss Dorothy, it brings it right home now to your own heart, where it
hurts."

"It certainly does, Susan."

"An' let me tell you. What do you s'pose, more 'n anything else, made
me see how really big it all is?"

"I don't know, Susan,"

"Well, I'll tell you. 'Twas because I couldn't write a poem on it."

"Sure enough, Susan! I don't believe I've heard you make a rhyme to-
day," smiled Miss Dorothy.

Susan sighed and shook her head.

"Yes, I know. I don't make 'em much now. Somehow they don't sing all
the time in my heart, an' burst out natural-like, as they used to. I
think them days when I tried so hard to sell my poems, an' couldn't,
kinder took the jest out of poetizin' for me. Somehow, when you find
out somethin' is invaluable to other folks, it gets so it's invaluable
to you, I s'pose. Still, even now, when I set right down to it, I can
'most always write 'em right off 'most as quick as I used to. But I
couldn't on this war. I tried it. But it jest wouldn't do. I begun it:

     Oh, woe is me, said the bayonet,
     Oh, woe is me, said the sword.

Then the whole awful frightfulness of it an' the bigness of it seemed
to swallow me up, an' I felt like a little pigment overtopped an'
surrounded by great tall mountains of horror that were tumblin' down
one after another on my head, an' bury in' me down so far an' deep
that I couldn't say anything, only to moan, 'Oh, Lord, how long, oh,
Lord, how long?' An' I knew then't was too big for me. I didn't try to
write no more."

"I can see how you couldn't," faltered the girl, as she turned away.
"I'm afraid--we're all going to find it--too big for us,"




CHAPTER XXV

KEITH TO THE RESCUE


John McGuire had not been home twenty-four hours before it was known
that he "took it powerful hard."

To Keith Susan told what she had learned.

"They say he utterly refuses to see any one outside the family; an'
that he'd rather not see even his own folks--that he's always askin'
'em to let him alone."

"Is he ill or wounded otherwise?" asked Keith.

"No, he ain't hurt outwardly or infernally, except his eyes, an' he
says that's the worst of it, one woman told me. He's as sound as a
nut, an' good for a hundred years yet. If he'd only been smashed up
good an' solid, so's he'd have some hope of dyin' pretty quick, he
wouldn't mind it, he says. But to live along like this--!--oh, he's in
an awful state of mind, everybody says."

"I can--imagine it," sighed Keith. And by the way he turned away Susan
knew that he did not care to talk any more.

An hour later Mrs. McGuire hurried into Susan's kitchen. Mrs. McGuire
was looking thin and worn these days. From her half-buttoned shoes to
her half-combed hair she was showing the results of strain and
anxiety. With a long sigh she dropped into one of the kitchen chairs.

"Well, Mis' McGuire, if you ain't the stranger!" Susan greeted her
cordially.

"Yes, I know," sighed Mrs. McGuire. "But, you see, I can't leave--
him." As she spoke she looked anxiously through the window toward her
own door. "Mr. McGuire's with him, now, so I got away."

"But there's Bess an' Harry," began Susan,

"We don't leave him with the children, ever," interposed Mrs. McGuire,
with another hurried glance through the window. "We--don't dare to.
You see, once we found--we found him with his father's old pistol. Oh,
Susan, it--it was awful!"

"Yes, it--must have been." Susan, after one swift glance into her
visitor's face, had turned her back suddenly. She was busy now with
the dampers of her kitchen stove.

"Of course we took it right away," went on Mrs. McGuire, "an' put it
where he'll never get it again. But we're always afraid there'll be
somethin' somewhere that he WILL get hold of. You see, he's SO
despondent--in such a terrible state!"

"Yes, I know," nodded Susan. Susan had abandoned her dampers, and had
turned right about face again. "If only he'd see folks now."

"Yes, an' that's what I came over to talk to you about," cried Mrs.
McGuire eagerly. "We haven't been able to get him to see anybody--not
anybody. But I've been wonderin' if he wouldn't see Keith, if we could
work it right. You see he says he just won't be stared at; an' Keith,
poor boy, COULDN'T stare, an' John knows it. Oh, Susan, do you suppose
we could manage it?"

"Why, of course. I'll tell him right away, an' he'll go over; I know
he'll go!" exclaimed Susan, all interest at once.

"Oh, but that wouldn't do at all!" cried Mrs. McGuire. "Don't you see?
John refuses, absolutely refuses, to see any one; an' he wouldn't see
Keith, if I should ASK him to. But he's interested in Keith--I KNOW
he's that, for once, when I was talkin' to Mr. McGuire about Keith,
John broke in an' asked two or three questions, an' he's NEVER done
that before, about anybody. An' so I was pretty sure it was because
Keith was blind, you know, like himself."

"Yes, I see, I see."

"An' if I can only manage it so they'll meet without John's knowin'
they're goin' to, I believe he'll get to talkin' with him before he
knows it; an' that it'll do him a world of good. Anyway, somethin's
got to be done, Susan--it's GOT to be--to get him out of this awful
state he's in."

"Well, we'll do it. I know we can do it some way."

"You think Keith'll do his part?" Mrs. McGuire's eyes were anxious.

"I'm sure he will--when he understands."

"Then listen," proposed Mrs. McGuire eagerly. "I'll get my John out on
to the back porch to-morrow mornin'. That's the only place outdoors I
CAN get him--he can't be seen from the street there, you know. I'll
get him there as near ten o'clock as I can. You be on the watch, an'
as soon as I get him all nicely fixed, you get Keith to come out into
your yard an' stroll over to the fence an' speak to him, an' then come
up on to the porch an' sit down, just naturally. He can do that all
right, can't he? It's just wonderful--the way he gets around
everywhere, with that little cane of his!"

"Yes, oh, yes."

"Well, I thought he could. An' tell him to keep right on talkin' every
minute so my John won't have a chance to get up an' go into the house.
Of course, I shall be there myself, at first. We never leave him
alone, you know. But as soon as Keith comes, I shall go. They'll get
along better by themselves, I'm sure--only, of course, I shall be
where I can keep watch out of the window. Now do you understand?"

"Yes, an' we can do it. I know we can do it."

"All right, then. I'm not so sure we can, but we'll try it, anyway,"
sighed Mrs. McGuire, rising to her feet, the old worry back on her
face. "Well, I must be goin'. Mr. McGuire'll have a fit. He's as
nervous as a witch when he's left alone with John. There! What did I
tell you?" she broke off, with an expressive gesture and glance, as a
careworn-looking man appeared in the doorway of the house across the
two back yards, and peered anxiously over at the Burtons' kitchen
door. "Now, don't forget--ten o'clock to-morrow mornin'."

"I won't forget," promised Susan cheerfully, "Now, do you go home an'
set easy, Mis' McGuire, an' don't you fret no more. It's comin' out
all right--all right, I tell you," she reiterated, as Mrs. McGuire
hurried through the doorway.

But when Mrs. McGuire was gone Susan drew a dubious sigh; and her
cheery smile had turned to a questioning frown as she went in search
of Keith. Very evidently Susan was far from feeling quite so sure
about Keith's cooperation as she would have Mrs. McGuire think.

Keith was in the living-room, his head bowed in his two hands, his
elbows on the table before him. At the first sound of Susan's steps he
lifted his head with a jerk.

"I was lookin' for you," began Susan the moment she had crossed the
threshold. Susan had learned that Keith hated above all things to have
to speak first, or to ask, "Who is it?" "Mis' McGuire's jest been
here."

"Yes, I heard her voice," returned the boy indifferently.

"She was tellin' about her John."

"How is he getting along?"

"He's in a bad way. Oh, he's real well physicianally, but he's in a
bad way in his mind."

"Well, you don't wonder, do you?"

"Oh, no, 'course not. Still, well, for one thing, he don't like to see
folks."

"Strange! Now, I'd think he'd just dote on seeing folks, wouldn't
you?"

Susan caught the full force of the sarcasm, but superbly she ignored
it.

"Well, I don't know--maybe; but, anyhow, he don't, an' Mis' McGuire's
that worried she don't know what to do. You see, she found him once
with his daddy's pistol"--Susan was talking very fast now--"an'
'course that worked her up somethin' terrible. I'm afraid he hain't
got much backbone. They don't dare to leave him alone a minute--not a
minute. An' Mis' McGuire, she was wonderin' if--if you couldn't help
'em out some way."

"_I_?" The short ejaculation was full of amazement.

"Yes. That's what she come over for this mornin'."

"I? They forget." Keith fell back bitterly. "John McGuire might get
hold of a dozen revolvers, and I wouldn't know it."

"Oh, 'twa'n't that. They didn't want you to WATCH him. They wanted you
to--Well, it's jest this. Mis' McGuire thought as how if she could get
her John out on the back porch, an' you happened to be in our back
yard, an' should go over an' speak to him, maybe you'd get to talkin'
with him, an' go up an' sit down. She thought maybe 'twould get him
out of hisself that way. You see, he won't talk to--to most folks. He
don't like to be stared at." (Susan threw a furtive glance into
Keith's face, then looked quickly away.) "But she thought maybe he
WOULD talk to you."

"Yes, I--see." Keith drew in his breath with a little catch.

"An' so she said there wa'n't anybody anywhere that could help so much
as you--if you would."

"Why, of course, if I really could HELP--"

Susan did not need to look into Keith's face to catch the longing and
heart-hunger and dawning hope in the word left suspended on his lips.
She felt her own throat tighten; but in a moment she managed to speak
with steady cheerfulness.

"Well, you can. You can help a whole lot. I'm sure you can. An' Mis'
McGuire is, too. An' what's more, you're the only one what can help
'em, in this case. So we'll keep watch to-morrow mornin', an' when he
comes out on the porch--well, we'll see what we will see." And Susan,
just as if her own heart was not singing a triumphant echo of the song
she knew was in his, turned away with an elaborate air of
indifference.

Yet, when to-morrow came, and when Keith went out into the yard in
response to the presence of John McGuire on his back porch, the result
was most disappointing--to Susan. To Keith it did not seem to be so
much so. But perhaps Keith had not expected quite what Susan had
expected. At all events, Keith came back to the house with a glow on
his face and a springiness in his step that Susan had not seen there
for months. Yet all that had happened was that Keith had called out
from the gate a pleasant "Good-morning!" to the blinded soldier, and
had followed it with an inconsequential word or two about the weather.
John McGuire had answered a crisp, cold something, and had risen at
once to go into the house. Keith, at the first sound of his feet on
the porch floor, had turned with a cheery "Well, I must be going back
to the house." Whereupon John McGuire had sat down again, and Mrs.
McGuire, who at Keith's first words, had started to her feet, dropped
back into her chair.

Apparently not much accomplished, certainly; yet there was the glow on
Keith's face and the springiness in Keith's step; and when he reached
the kitchen, he said this to Susan:

"The next time John McGuire is on the back porch, please let me know."

And Susan let him know, both then and at subsequent times.

It was a pretty game and one well worth the watching. Certainly Susan
and Mrs. McGuire thought it so. On the one side were persistence and
perseverance and infinite tact. On the other were a distrustful
antagonism and a palpable longing for an understanding companionship.

At first the intercourse between the two blind youths consisted of a
mere word or two tossed by Keith to the other who gave a still shorter
word in reply. And even this was not every day, for John McGuire was
not out on the porch every day. But as the month passed, he came more
and more frequently, and one evening Mrs. McGuire confided to Susan
the fact that John seemed actually to fret now if a storm kept him
indoors.

"An' he listens for Keith to come along the fence--I know he does,"
she still further declared. "Oh, I know he doesn't let him say much
yet, but he hasn't jumped up to go into the house once since those
first two or three times, an' that's somethin'. An' what's more, he
let Keith stay a whole minute at the gate talkin' yesterday!" she
finished in triumph.

"Yes, an' the best of it is," chimed in Susan, "it's helpin' Keith
Burton hisself jest as much as 'tis John McGuire. Why, he ain't the
same boy since he's took to tryin' to get your John to talkin'. An' he
asks me a dozen times a mornin' if John's out on the porch yet. An'
when he IS out there, he don't lose no time in goin' out hisself."

Yet it was the very next morning that Keith, after eagerly asking if
John McGuire were on the back porch, did not go out. Instead he
settled back in his chair and picked up one of his embossed books.

Susan frowned in amazed wonder, and opened her lips as if to speak.
But after a glance at Keith's apparently absorbed face, she turned and
went back to her work in the kitchen. Twice during the next ten
minutes, however, she invented an excuse to pass again through the
living-room, where Keith sat. Yet, though she said a pointed something
each time about John McGuire on the back porch, Keith did not respond
save with an indifferent word or two. And, greatly to her indignation,
he was still sitting in his chair with his book when at noon John
McGuire, on the porch across the back yard, rose from his seat and
went into the house.

Susan was still more indignant when, the next morning, the same
programme was repeated--except for the fact that Susan's reminders of
John McGuire's presence on the back porch were even more pointed than
they had been on the day before. Again the third morning it was the
same. Susan resolved then to speak. She said to herself that "patience
had ceased to be virtuous," and she lay awake half that night
rehearsing a series of arguments and pleadings which she meant to
present the next morning. She was the more incited to this owing to
Mrs. McGuire's distracted reproaches the evening before.

"Why, John has asked for him, actually ASKED for him," Mrs. McGuire
had wept. "An' it is cruel, the cruelest thing I ever saw, to get that
poor boy all worked up to the point of really WANTIN' to talk with
him, an' then stay away three whole days like this!"

On the fourth morning, therefore, when John McGuire appeared on the
back porch, Susan went into the Burton living-room with the avowed
determination of getting Keith out of the house and into the back
yard, or of telling him exactly what she thought of him.

She had all of her elaborate scheming for nothing, however, for at her
first terse announcement that John McGuire was on the back porch,
Keith sprang to his feet with a cheery:

"So? Well, I guess I'll go out myself."

And Susan was left staring at him with open eyes and mouth--yet not
too dazed to run to the open window and watch what happened.

And this is what Susan saw--and heard. Keith, with his almost
uncannily skillful stick to guide him, sauntered down the path and
called a cheery greeting to John McGuire--a John McGuire who, in his
eagerness to respond, leaned away forward in his chair with a sudden
flame of color in his face.

Keith still sauntered toward the dividing fence, pausing only to feel
with his fingers and pick the one belated rose from the bush at the
gate. He pushed the gate open then, still talking cheerfully, and the
next moment Susan was holding her breath, for Keith had gone straight
up the walk and up the steps, and had dropped himself into the vacant
chair beside John McGuire--and John McGuire, after a faint start as if
to rise, had fallen back in his seat, and had turned his face
uncertainly, fearfully, yet with infinite longing, toward the blind
youth at his side.

Susan looked then at Mrs. McGuire. Mrs. McGuire, too, was plainly
holding her breath suspended. On her face, too, were uncertainty,
fearfulness, and infinite longing. For a moment she watched the two
boys intently. Then she rose and with cautious steps made her way into
the house. After supper that night she came over and told Susan all
about it. Her face was beaming.

"Did you see them?" she began breathlessly. "Wasn't it wonderful? A
whole half-hour those two blessed boys sat there an' talked; an' John
laughed twice, actually laughed."

"Yes, I know," nodded Susan, her own face no less beaming.

"An' to think how just last night I was scoldin' an' blamin' Keith
because he didn't come over these last three days. An' I never saw at
all what he was up to."

"Up to?" frowned Susan.

"Yes, yes! Don't you see? He did it on purpose--stayed away three
whole days, so John would miss him an' WANT him. An' John DID miss
him. Why, he listened for him all the time. I could just SEE he was
listenin'. An' that's what made me so angry, because Keith didn't
come. The idea!--My boy wantin' somebody, an' that somebody not there!

"But I know now. I understand. An' I love him for it. He did it to
make him want him. An' it worked. Why, if he'd come before, every day,
just as usual, John wouldn't have talked with him. I know he wouldn't.
But now--oh, Susan, it was wonderful, wonderful! I watched 'em from
the window. I HAD to watch. I was afraid--still. An' of course I heard
some things. An', oh, Susan, it was wonderful, the way that boy
understood."

"You mean--Keith?"

"Yes. You see, first John began to talk just as he talks to us--ravin'
because he's so strong an' well, an' likely to live to be a hundred;
an' of how he'll look, one of these days, with his little tin cup held
out for pennies an' his sign, 'Please Help the Blind,' an' of what
he's got to look forward to all his life. Oh, Susan, it--it's enough
to break the heart of a stone, when he talks like that."

Susan drew in her breath.

"Don't you s'pose I know? Well, I guess I do! But what did Keith say
to him?"

"Nothin'. An' that was the first wonderful thing. You see, we--we
always talk an' try to comfort him when he talks like that. But Keith
didn't. He just let him talk, with nothin' but just a sympathetic word
now an' then. But it wasn't long before I noticed a wonderful thing
was happenin'. Keith was beginnin' to talk--not about that awful tin
cup an' the pennies an' the sign, but about other things; first about
the rose in his hand. An' pretty quick John was talkin' about it, too.
He had the rose an' was smellin' of it. Then Keith had a new knife,
an' he passed that over, an' pretty quick I saw that John had that
little link puzzle of Keith's, an' was havin' a great time tryin' to
straighten it out. That's the first time I heard him laugh.

"I began to realize then what Keith was doin'. He was fillin' John's
mind full of somethin' else beside himself, for just a minute, an' was
showin' him that there were things he could call by name, like the
rose an' the knife an' the puzzle, even if he couldn't SEE 'em. Oh,
Keith didn't SAY anything like that to him--trust him for that. But
before John knew it, he was DOIN' it--callin' things by name, I mean.

"An' Keith is comin' again to-morrow. John TOLD me so. An' if you
could have seen his face when he said it! Oh, Susan, isn't it
wonderful?" she finished fervently, as she turned to go.

"It is, indeed--wonderful," murmured Susan. But Susan's eyes were out
the window on Keith's face--Keith and his father were coming up the
walk talking; and on Keith's face was a light Susan had never seen
there before.




CHAPTER XXVI

MAZIE AGAIN


It came to be the accepted thing almost at once, then, that Keith
Burton and John McGuire should spend their mornings together on the
McGuires' back porch. In less than a fortnight young McGuire even
crossed the yard arm in arm with Keith to the Burtons' back porch and
sat there one morning. After that it was only a question as to which
porch it should be. That it would be one of them was a foregone
conclusion.

Sometimes the two boys talked together. Sometimes they worked on one
of Keith's raised picture puzzles. Sometimes Keith read aloud from one
of his books. Whatever they did, their doing it was the source of
great interest to the entire neighborhood. Not only did Mrs. McGuire
and Susan breathlessly watch from their respective kitchens, but
friends and neighbors fabricated excuses to come to the two houses in
order to see for themselves; and children gathered along the
divisional fence and gazed with round eyes of wonder. But they gazed
silently. Everybody gazed silently. Even the children seemed to
understand that the one unpardonable sin was to let the blind boys on
the porch know that they were the objects of any sort of interest.

One day Mazie Sanborn came. She brought a new book for Mrs. McGuire to
read--an attention she certainly had never before bestowed on John
McGuire's mother. She talked one half-minute about the book--and five
minutes about the beautiful new friendship between the two blind young
men. She insisted on going into the kitchen where she could see the
two boys on the porch. Then, before Mrs. McGuire could divine her
purpose and stop her, she had slipped through the door and out on to
the porch itself.

"How do you do, gentlemen," she began blithely. "I just--"

But the terrified Mrs. McGuire had her by the arm and was pulling her
back into the kitchen before she could finish her sentence.

On the porch the two boys had leaped to their feet, John McGuire, in
particular, looking distressed and angry.

"Who was that? Is anybody--there?" he demanded.

"No, dear, not now." In the doorway Mrs. McGuire was trying to nod
assurance to the boys and frown banishment to Mazie Sanborn at one and
the same moment.

"But there was--some one," insisted her son sharply.

"Just some one that brought a book to me, dearie, an' she's gone now."
Frantically Mrs. McGuire was motioning Mazie to make her assertion the
truth.

John McGuire sat down then. So, too, did Keith. But all the rest of
the morning John was nervously alert for all sounds. And his ears were
frequently turned toward the kitchen door. He began to talk again,
too, bitterly, of the little tin cup for the pennies and the sign
"Pity the Poor Blind." He lost all interest in Keith's books and
puzzles, and when he was not railing at the tragedy of his fate, he
was sitting in gloomy silence.

Keith told Susan that afternoon that if Mrs. McGuire did not keep
people away from that porch when he was out there with John, he would
not answer for the consequences. Susan told Mrs. McGuire, and Mrs.
McGuire told Mazie Sanborn, at the same time returning the loaned
book--all of which did not tend to smooth Miss Mazie's already ruffled
feelings.

To Dorothy Mazie expressed her mind on the matter.

"I don't care! I'll never go there again--never!" she declared
angrily; "nor speak to Mrs. McGuire, nor that precious son of hers,
nor Keith Burton, either. So there!"

"Oh, Mazie, but poor Keith isn't to blame," remonstrated Dorothy
earnestly, the color flaming into her face.

"He is, too. He's just as bad as John McGuire. He jumped up and looked
just as cross as John McGuire did when I went out on to that porch.
And he doesn't ever really want to see us. You know he doesn't. He
just stands us because he thinks he's got to be polite."

"But, Mazie, dear, he's so sensitive, and he feels his affliction
keenly, and--"

"Oh, yes, that's right--stand up for him! I knew you would," snapped
Mazie crossly. "And everybody knows it, too--running after him the way
you do."

"RUNNING AFTER HIM!" Dorothy's face was scarlet now.

"Yes, running after him," reiterated the other incisively; "and you
always have--trotting over there all the time with books and puzzles
and candy and flowers. And--"

"For shame, Mazie!" interrupted Dorothy, with hot indignation. "As if
trying to help that poor blind boy to while away a few hours of his
time were RUNNING AFTER HIM."

"But he doesn't WANT you to while away an hour or two of his time. And
I should think you'd see he didn't. You could if you weren't so dead
in love with him, and--"

"Mazie!" gasped Dorothy, aghast.

"Well, it's so. Anybody can see that--the way you color up every time
his name is mentioned, and the way you look at him, with your heart in
your eyes, and--"

"Mazie Sanborn!" gasped Dorothy again. Her face was not scarlet now.
It had gone dead white. She was on her feet, horrified, dismayed, and
very angry.

"Well, I don't care. It's so. Everybody knows it. And when a fellow
shows so plainly that he'd rather be let alone, how you can keep
thrusting yourself--"

But Dorothy had gone. With a proud lifting of her head, and a sharp
"Nonsense, Mazie, you are wild! We'll not discuss it any longer,
please," she had turned and left the room.

But she remembered. She must have remembered, for she did not go near
the Burton homestead for a week. Neither did the next week nor the
next see her there. Furthermore, though the little stand in her room
had shown two new picture puzzles and a new game especially designed
for the blind, it displayed them no longer after those remarks of
Mazie Sanborn's. Not that Keith had them, however. Indeed, no. They
were buried deep under a pile of clothing in the farther corner of
Dorothy's bottom bureau drawer.

At the Burton homestead Susan wondered a little at her absence. She
even said to Keith one day:

"Why, where's Dorothy? We haven't see her for two weeks."

"I don't know, I'm sure."

The way Keith's lips came together over the last word caused Susan to
throw a keen glance into his face.

"Now, Keith, I hope you two haven't been quarreling again," she
frowned anxiously.

"'Again'! Nonsense, Susan, we never did quarrel. Don't be silly." The
youth shifted his position uneasily.

"I'm thinkin' tain't always me that's silly," observed Susan, with
another keen glance. "That girl was gettin' so she come over jest
natural-like again, every little while, bringin' in one thing or
another, if 'twas nothin' more'n a funny story to make us laugh. An'
what I want to know is why she stopped right off short like this, for--"

"Nonsense!" tossed Keith again, with a lift of his chin. Then, with an
attempt at lightness that was very near a failure, he laughed: "I
reckon we don't want her to come if she doesn't want to, do we,
Susan?"

"Humph!" was Susan's only comment--outwardly. Inwardly she was vowing
to see that young woman and have it out with her, once for all.

But Susan did not see her nor have it out with her; for, as it
happened, something occurred that night so all-absorbing and exciting
that even the unexplained absence of Dorothy Parkman became as nothing
beside it.

With the abrupt suddenness that sometimes makes the long-waited-for
event a real shock, came the news of the death of the poor old woman
whose frail hand had held the wealth that Susan had coveted for Daniel
Burton and his son.

The two men left the next morning on the four-hundred-mile journey
that would take them to the town where Nancy Holworthy had lived.

Scarcely had they left the house before Susan began preparations for
their home-coming, as befitted their new estate. Her first move was to
get out all the best silver and china. She was busy cleaning it when
Mrs. McGuire came in at the kitchen door.

"What's the matter?" she began breathlessly.

"Where's Keith? John's been askin' for him all the mornin'. Is Mr.
Burton sick? They just telephoned from the store that Mr. Burton had
sent word that he wouldn't be down for a few days. He isn't sick, is
he?--or Keith? I couldn't make out quite all they said; but there was
somethin' about Keith. They ain't either of 'em sick, are they?"

"Oh, no, they're both well--very well, thank you." There was an air,
half elation, half superiority, about Susan that was vaguely
irritating to Mrs. McGuire.

"Well, you needn't be so secret about it, Susan," she began a little
haughtily. But Susan tossed her head with a light laugh.

"Secret! I guess 't won't be no secret long. Mr. Daniel Burton an'
Master Keith have gone away, Mis' McGuire."

"Away! You mean--a--a vacation?" frowned Mrs. McGuire doubtfully.

Susan laughed again, still with that irritating air of superiority.

"Well, hardly. This ain't no pleasure exertion, Mis' McGuire. Still,
on the other hand, Daniel Burton wouldn't be half humane if he didn't
get some pleasure out of it, though he wouldn't so demean himself as
to show it, of course. Mis' Nancy Holworthy is dead, Mis' McGuire. We
had the signification last night."

"Not--you don't mean THE Nancy Holworthy--the one that's got the
money!" The excited interest in Mrs. McGuire's face and voice was as
great as even Susan herself could have desired.

Susan obviously swelled with the glory of the occasion, though she
still spoke with cold loftiness.

"The one and the same, Mis' McGuire."

"My stars an' stockin's, you don't say! An' they've gone to the
funeral?"

"They have."

"An' they'll get the money now, I s'pose."

"They will."

"But are you sure? You know sometimes when folks expect the money they
don't get it. It's been willed away to some one else."

"Yes, I know. But't won't be here," spoke Susan with decision. "Mis'
Holworthy couldn't if she'd wanted to. It's all foreordained an' fixed
beforehand. Daniel Burton was to get jest the annual while she lived,
an' then the whole in a plump sum when she died. Well, she's dead, an'
now he gets it. An' a right tidy little sum it is, too."

"Was she awful rich, Susan?"

"More'n a hundred thousand. A hundred an' fifty, I've heard say."

"My gracious me! An' to think of Daniel Burton havin' a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars! What in the world will he do with it?"

Susan's chin came up superbly.

"Well, I can tell you one thing he'll do, Mis' McGuire. He'll stop
peddlin' peas an' beans over that counter down there, an' retire to a
life of ease an' laxity with his paint-brushes, as he ought to. An'
he'll have somethin' fit to eat an' wear, an' Keith will, too. An'
furthermore an' likewise you'll see SOME difference in this place, or
my name ain't Susan Betts. Them two men have got an awful lot to live
up to, an' I mean they shall understand it right away."

"Which explains this array of china an' silver, I take it," observed
Mrs. McGuire dryly.

"Eh? What?" frowned Susan doubtfully; then her face cleared. "Yes,
that's jest it. They've got to have things now fitted up to their new
estation. We shall get more, too. We need some new teaspoons an'
forks. An' I want 'em to get some of them bunion spoons."

"BUNION spoons!"

"Yes--when you eat soup out of them two-handled cups, you know. Or
maybe you don't know," she corrected herself, at the odd expression
that had come to Mrs. McGuire's face. "But I do. Mrs. Professor
Hinkley used to have 'em. They're awful pretty an' stylish, too. And
we've got to have a lot of other things--new china, an' some cut-
glass, an'--"

"Well, it strikes me," interrupted Mrs. McGuire severely, "that Daniel
Burton had better be puttin' his money into Liberty Bonds an' Red
Cross work, instead of silver spoons an' cut-glass, in these war-
times. An'--"

"My lan', Mis' McGuire!" With the sudden exclamation Susan had dropped
the spoon she was polishing. Her eyes, wild and incredulous, were
staring straight into the startled eyes of the woman opposite. "Do you
know? Since that yeller telegram came last night tellin' us Nancy
Holworthy was dead, I hain't even once thought of--the war."

"Well, I guess you would think of it--if you had my John right before
you all the time." With a bitter sigh Mrs. McGuire had relaxed in her
chair. "You wouldn't need anything else."

"Humph! I don't need anything else with Daniel Burton 'round."

"What do you mean?"

"Why, I mean that that man don't do nothin' but read war an' talk war
every minute he's in the house. An' what with them wheatless days an'
meatless days, he fairly EATS war. You heard my poem on them meatless,
wheatless days, didn't you?"

Mrs. McGuire shook her head listlessly. Her somber eyes were on the
lonely figure of her son on the porch across the two back yards.

"You didn't? Well, I'll say it to you, then. 'Tain't much; still, it's
kind of good, in a way. I hain't written hardly anything lately; but I
did write this:

     We've a wheatless day,
     An' a meatless day,
     An' a tasteless, wasteless,
                     sweetless day.

     But with never a pause,
     For the good of the cause,
     We'd even consent to an
                     eatless day.

"An' we would, too, of course.

"An' as far as that's concerned, there's a good many other kinds of
'less days that I'm thinkin' wouldn't hurt none of us. How about a
fretless day an' a worryless day? Wouldn't they be great? An' only
think what a talkless day'd mean in some households I could mention.
Oh, of course, present comp'ny always accentuated," she hastened to
add with a sly chuckle, as Mrs. McGuire stirred into sudden
resentment.

"Humph!" subsided Mrs. McGuire, still a little resentfully.

"An' I'm free to confess that there's some kinds of 'less days that
we've already got plenty of," went on Susan, after a moment's
thoughtful pause. "There is folks that take quite enough workless
days, an' laughless days, an' pityless days, an' thankless days. My
lan', there ain't no end to them kind, as any one can see. An' there
was them heatless days last winter--I guess no one was hankerin' for
more of THEM. Oh, 'course I understand that that was just preservation
of coal, an' that 'twas necessary, an' all that. An' that's another
thing, too--this preservation business. I'd like to add a few things
to that, an' make 'em preserve in fault-findin', an' crossness, an'
backbitin', an' gossip, as well as in coal, an' sugar, an' wheat, an'
beef."

Mrs. McGuire gave a short laugh.

"My goodness, Susan Betts, if you ain't the limit, an' no mistake! I
s'pose you mean CONservation."

"Heh? What's that? Well, CONservation, then. What's the difference,
anyway?" she scoffed a bit testily. Then, abruptly, her face changed.
"But, there! this ain't settlin' what I'm going to do with Daniel
Burton," she finished with a profound sigh.

"Do with him?" puzzled Mrs. McGuire.

"Yes." Susan picked up the silver spoon and began indifferently to
polish it. "'Tain't no use for me to be doin' all this. Daniel Burton
won't know whether he's eatin' with a silver spoon or one made of
pewter. No more will he retire to a life of ease an' laxity with his
paint-brushes--unless they declarate peace to-morrow mornin'."

"You don't mean--he'll stay in the store?"

Susan made a despairing gesture.

"Goodness only knows what he'll do--I don't. I know what he does now.
He's as uneasy as a fish out o' water, an' he roams the house from one
end to the other every night, after he reads the paper. He's got one
of them war maps on his wall, an' he keeps changin' the pins an'
flags, an' I hear him mutterin' under his breath. You see, he has to
keep it from Keith all he can, for Keith hisself feels so bad 'cause
he can't be up an' doin'; an' if he thought he was keepin' his father
back from helpin', I don't know what the poor boy would do. But I
think if 'twa'n't for Keith, Daniel Burton would try to enlist an' go
over. Oh, of course, he's beyond the malicious age, so far as bein'
drafted is concerned, an' you wouldn't naturally think such a mild-
tempered-lookin' man would go in much for killin'. But this war's
stirred him up somethin' awful."

"Well, who wouldn't it?"

"Oh, I know that; an' I ain't sayin' as how it shouldn't. But that
don't make it no easier for Daniel Burton to keep his feelin's hid
from his son, particularly when it's that son that's made him have the
feelin's, partly. There ain't no doubt but that one of the things
that's made Daniel Burton so fidgety an' uneasy, an' ready to jest
fling hisself into that ravin' conflict over there is his unhappiness
an' disappointment over Keith. He had such big plans for that boy!"

"Yes, I know. We all have big plans for--our boys." Mrs. McGuire
choked and turned away.

"An' girls, too, for that matter," hurried on Susan, with a quick
glance into the other's face. "An' speakin' of girls, did you see
Hattie Turner on the street last night?"

Dumbly Mrs. McGuire answered with a shake of her head. Her eyes had
gone back to her son's face across the yard.

"Well, I did. Her Charlie's at Camp Devens, you know. They say he's
invited to more places every Sunday than he can possibly accept; an'
that he's petted an' praised an' made of everywhere he goes, an'
tended right up to so's he won't get lonesome, or attend
unquestionable entertainments. Well, that's all right an' good, of
course, an' as it should be. But I wish somebody'd take up Charlie
Turner's wife an' invite her to Sunday dinners an' take her to ride,
an' see that she didn't attend unquestionable entertainments."

"Why, Susan Betts, what an idea!" protested Mrs. McGuire, suddenly
sitting erect in her chair. "Hattie Turner isn't fightin' for her
country."

"No, but her husband is," retorted Susan crisply. "An' she's fightin'
for her honor an' her future peace an' happiness, an' she's doin' it
all alone. She's pretty as a picture, an' nothin' but a child when he
married her four months ago, an' we've took away her natural pervider
an' entertainer, an' left her nothin' but her freedom for a ballast
wheel. An' I say I wish some of the patriotic people who are jest
showerin' every Charlie Turner with attentions would please sprinkle
jest a few on Charlie's wife, to help keep her straight an' sweet an'
honest for Charlie when he comes back."

"Hm-m, maybe," murmured Mrs. McGuire, rising wearily to her feet; "but
there ain't many that thinks of that."

"There'll be more think of it by an' by--when it's too late," observed
Susan succinctly, as she, too, rose from her chair.




CHAPTER XXVII

FOR THE SAKE OF JOHN


In due course Daniel Burton and his son Keith returned from the
funeral of their kinswoman, Mrs. Nancy Holworthy.

The town, aware now of the stupendous change that had come to the
fortunes of the Burton family, stared, gossiped, shook wise heads of
prophecy, then passed on to the next sensation--which happened to be
the return of four soldiers from across the seas; three crippled, one
blinded.

At the Burton homestead the changes did not seem so stupendous, after
all. True, Daniel Burton had abandoned the peddling of peas and beans
across the counter, and had, at the earnest solicitation of his son,
got out his easel and placed a fresh canvas upon it; but he obviously
worked half-heartedly, and he still roamed the house after reading the
evening paper, and spent even more time before the great war map on
his studio wall.

True, also, disgruntled tradesmen no longer rang peremptory peals on
the doorbell, and the postman's load of bills on the first of the
month was perceptibly decreased. The dinner-table, too, bore evidence
that a scanty purse no longer controlled the larder, but no new china
or cut-glass graced the board, and Susan's longed-for bouillon spoons
had never materialized. Locks and doors and sagging blinds had
received prompt attention, and already the house was being prepared
for a new coat of paint; but no startling alterations or improvements
were promised by the evidence, and Keith was still to be seen almost
daily on the McGuire back porch, as before, or on his own, with John
McGuire.

It is no wonder, surely, that very soon the town ceased to stare and
gossip, or even to shake wise heads of prophecy.

Nancy Holworthy's death was two months in the past when one day Keith
came home from John McGuire's back porch in very evident excitement
and agitation.

"Why, Keith, what's the matter? What IS the matter?" demanded Susan
concernedly.

"Nothing. That is, I--I did not know I acted as if anything was the
matter," stammered the youth.

"Well, you do. Now, tell me, what is it?"

"Nothing, nothing, Susan. Nothing you can help." Keith was pacing back
and forth and up and down the living-room, not even using his cane to
define the familiar limits of his pathway. Suddenly he turned and
stopped short, his whole body quivering with emotion. "Susan, I can't!
I can't--stand it," he moaned.

"I know, Keith. But, what is it--now?"

"John McGuire. He's been telling me how it is--over there. Why, Susan,
I could see it--SEE it, I tell you, and, oh, I did so want to be there
to help. He told me how they held it--the little clump of trees that
meant so much to US, and how one by one they fell--those brave fellows
with him. I could see it. I could hear it. I could hear the horrid din
of the guns and shells, and the crash of falling trees about us; and
the shouts and groans of the men at our side. And they needed men--
more men--to take the place of those that had fallen. Even one man
counted there--counted for, oh, so much!--for at the last there was
just one man left---John McGuire. And to hear him tell it--it was
wonderful, wonderful!"

"I know, I know," nodded Susan. "It was like his letters--you could
SEE things. He MADE you see 'em. An' that's what he always did--made
you see things--even when he was a little boy. His mother told me. He
wanted to write, you know. He was goin' to be a writer, before--this
happened. An' now---" The sentence trailed off into the silence
unfinished.

"And to think of all that to-day being wasted on a blind baby tied to
a picture puzzle," moaned Keith, resuming his nervous pacing of the
room. "If only a man--a real man could have heard him--one that could
go and do a man's work--! Why, Susan, that story, as he told it, would
make a stone fight. I never heard anything like it. I never supposed
there could be anything like that battle. He never talked like this,
until to-day. Oh, he's told me a little, from time to time. But to-
day, to-day, he just poured out his heart to me--ME!--and there are so
many who need just that message to stir them from their smug
complacency--men who could fight, and win: men who WOULD fight, and
win, if only they could see and hear and know, as I saw and heard and
knew this afternoon. And there it was, wasted, WASTED, worse than
wasted on--me!"

Chokingly Keith turned away, but with a sudden cry Susan caught his
arm.

"No, no, Keith, it wasn't wasted--you mustn't let it be wasted," she
panted. "Listen! You want others to hear it--what you heard--don't
you?"

"Why, y-yes, Susan; but---"

"Then make 'em hear it," she interrupted. "You can--you can!"

"How?"

"Make him write it down, jest as he talks. He can--he wants to. He's
always wanted to. Then publish it in a book, so everybody can see it
and hear it, as you did."

"Oh, Susan, if we only could!" A dawning hope had come into Keith
Burton's face, but almost at once it faded into gray disappointment.
"We couldn't do it, though, Susan. He couldn't do it. You know he
can't write at all. He's only begun to practice a little bit. He'd
never get it down, with the fire and the vim in it, learning to write
as he'd have to. What do you suppose Lincoln's Gettysburg Speech would
have been if he'd had to stop to learn how to spell and to write each
word before he could put it down?"

"I know, I know," nodded Susan. "It's that way with me in my poetry. I
jest HAVE to get right ahead while the fuse burns, an' spell 'em
somehow, anyhow, so's to get 'em down while I'm in the fit of it. He
couldn't do it. I can see that now. But, Keith, couldn't YOU do it?--
take it down, I mean, as he talked, like a stylographer?"

Keith shook his head.

"I wish I could. But I couldn't, I know I couldn't. I couldn't begin
to do it fast enough to keep up with him, and 't would spoil it all to
have to ask him to slow down. When a man's got a couple of Huns coming
straight for him, and he knows he's got to get 'em both at once, you
can't very well sing out: 'Here, wait--wait a minute till I get that
last sentence down!'"

"I know, I know," nodded Susan again. She paused, drew a long sigh,
and turned her eyes out the window. Up the walk was coming Daniel
Burton. His step was slow, his head was bowed. He looked like anything
but the happy possessor of new wealth. Susan frowned as she watched
him.

"I wish your father---" she began. Suddenly she stopped. A new light
had leaped to her eyes. "Keith, Keith," she cried eagerly. "I have it!
Your father--he could do it--I know he could!"

"Do what?"

"Take down John McGuire's story. Couldn't he do it?"

"Why, y-yes, he could, I think," hesitated Keith doubtfully. "He
doesn't know shorthand, but he--he's got eyes" (Keith's voice broke a
little) "and he could SEE what he was doing, and he could take down
enough of it so he could patch it up afterwards, I'm sure. But Susan,
John McGuire wouldn't TELL it to HIM. Don't you see? He won't even see
anybody but me, and he didn't talk like this even to me until to-day.
How's dad going to hear it to write it down? Tell me that?"

"But he could overhear it, Keith. No, no, don't look like that," she
protested hurriedly, as Keith began to frown. "Jest listen a minute.
It would be jest as easy. He could be over on the grass right close,
where he could hear every word; an' you could get John to talkin', an'
as soon as he got really started on a story your father could begin to
write, an' John wouldn't know a thing about it; an'--"

"Yes, you're quite right--John wouldn't know a thing about it," broke
in Keith, with a passion so sudden and bitter that Susan fell back in
dismay.

"Why, Keith!" she exclaimed, her startled eyes on his quivering face.

"I wonder if you think I'd do it!" he demanded. "I wonder if you
really think I'd cheat that poor fellow into talking to me just
because he hadn't eyes to see that I wasn't the only one in his
audience!"

"But, Keith, he wouldn't mind; he wouldn't mind a bit," urged Susan,
"if he didn't know an'--"

"Oh, no, he wouldn't mind being cheated and deceived and made a fool
of, just because he couldn't see!"

"No, he wouldn't mind," persisted Susan stoutly. "It wouldn't be a
mean listenin', nor sneak listenin'. It wouldn't be listenin' to
things he didn't want us to hear. He'd be glad, after it was all done,
an'--"

"Would he!" choked Keith, still more bitterly. "Maybe you think _I_
was glad after it was all done, and I found I'd been fooled and
cheated into thinking the girl that was reading and talking to me and
playing games with me was a girl I had never known before--a girl who
was what she pretended to be, a new friend doing it all because she
wanted to, because she liked to."

"But, Keith, I'm sure that Dorothy liked--"

"There, there, Susan," interposed Keith, with quickly uplifted hand.
"We'll not discuss it, please, Yes, I know, I began the subject
myself, and it was my fault; but when I heard you say John McGuire
would be glad when he found out how we'd lied to his poor blind eyes,
I--I just couldn't hold it in. I had to say something. But never mind
that now, Susan; only you'll--you'll have to understand I mean what I
say. There's no letting dad copy that story on the sly."

"But there's a way, there must be a way," argued Susan feverishly.
"Only think what it would mean to that boy if we could get him started
to writin' books--what he's wanted to do all his life. Oh, Keith, why,
he'd even forget his eyes then."

"It would--help some." Keith drew in his breath and held it a moment
suspended. "And he'd even be helping us to win out--over there; for if
we could get that story of his on paper as he told it to me, the
fellow that reads it wouldn't need any recruiting station to send him
over there. If there was only a way that father could--"

"There is, an' we'll find it," interposed Susan eagerly. "I know we
will. An' Keith, it's goin' to be 'most as good for him as it is for
John McGuire. He's nervous as a witch since he quit his job."

"I know." A swift cloud crossed the boy's face. "But 'twasn't giving
up his job that's made him nervous, Susan, as you and I both know very
well. However, we'll see. And you may be sure if there is a way I'll
find it, Susan," he finished a bit wearily, as he turned to go
upstairs.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE WAY


Keith was still looking for "the way," when October came, bringing
crisp days and chilly winds. When not too cold, the boys still sat out
of doors. When it was too cold, John McGuire did not appear at all on
his back porch, and Keith did not have the courage to make a bold
advance to the McGuire door and ask admittance. There came a day,
however, when a cold east wind came up after they were well
established in their porch chairs for the morning. They were on the
Burton porch this time, and Keith suddenly determined to take the bull
by the horns.

"Brrr! but it's cold this morning," he shivered blithely. "What say
you? Let's go in. Come on." And without waiting for acquiescence, he
caught John McGuire's arm in his own and half pulled him to his feet.
Before John McGuire knew then quite what was happening, he found
himself in the house.

"No, no!--that is, I--I think I'd better be going home," he stammered.

But Keith Burton did not seem even to hear.

"Say, just try your hand at this puzzle," he was saying gayly. "I gave
it up, and I'll bet you'll have to," he finished, thrusting a
pasteboard box into his visitor's hands and nicely adjudging the
distance a small table must be pushed in order to bring it
conveniently in front of John McGuire's chair.

The quick tightening of John McGuire's lips and the proud lifting of
his chin told that Keith's challenge had been accepted even before the
laconic answer came.

"Oh, you do, do you? Well, we'll see whether I'll have to give it up
or not."

John McGuire loved picture puzzles, as Keith Burton well knew.

It was easy after that. Keith took it so unhesitatingly for granted
that they were to go indoors when it was cold that John McGuire found
it difficult to object; and it was not long before the two boys were
going back and forth between the two houses with almost as much ease
as if their feet had been guided by the eye instead of by the tap of a
slender stick.

John McGuire was learning a great deal from Keith these days, though
it is doubtful if he realized it. It is doubtful, also, if he realized
how constantly he was being made to talk of the war and of his
experience in it. But Keith realized it. Keith was not looking for
"the way" now. He believed he had found it; and there came a day when
he deemed the time had come to try to carry it out.

They were in his own home living-room. It had been a wonderful story
that John McGuire had told that day of a daring excursion into No
Man's Land, and what came of it. Upstairs in the studio Daniel Burton
was sitting alone, as Keith knew. Keith drew a long breath and made
the plunge. Springing to his feet he turned toward the door that led
into the hall.

"McGuire, that was a bully story--a corking good story. I want dad to
hear it. Wait, I'll get him." And he was out of the room with the door
fast closed behind him before John McGuire could so much as draw a
breath.

Upstairs, Daniel Burton, already in the secret, heard Keith's eager
summons and came at once. For some days he had been expecting just
such an urgent call from Keith's lips. He knew too much to delay. He
was down the stairs and at Keith's side in an incredibly short time.
Then together they pushed open the door and entered the living-room.

John McGuire was on his feet. Very plainly he was intending to go
home, and at once. But Daniel Burton paid no attention to that. He
came straight toward him and took his hand.

"I call this mighty good of you, McGuire," he said. "My boy here has
been raving about your stories of the war until I'm fairly green with
envy. Now I'm to hear a bit of them myself, he says. I wish you would
tell me some of your experiences, my lad. You know a chance like this
is a real god-send to us poor stay-at-homes. Now fire away! I'm
ready."

But John McGuire was not ready. True, he sat down--but not until after
a confused "No, no, I must go home--that is, really, they're not worth
repeating--those stories." And he would not talk at all--at first.

Daniel Burton talked, however. He talked of wars in general and of the
Civil War in particular; and he told the stories of Antietam and
Gettysburg as they had been told to him by his father. Then from
Gettysburg he jumped to Flanders, and talked of aeroplanes, and gas-
masks, and tanks, and trenches, and dugouts.

Little by little then John McGuire began to talk--sometimes a whole
sentence, sometimes only a word or two. But there was no fire, no
enthusiasm, no impetuous rush of words that brought the very din of
battle to their ears. And not once did Daniel Burton thrust his
fingers into his pocket for his pencil and notebook. Yet, when it was
all over, and John McGuire had gone home, Keith dropped into his chair
with a happy sigh.

"It wasn't much, dad, I know," he admitted, "but it was something. It
was a beginning, and a beginning is something--with John McGuire."

And it was something; for the next time Daniel Burton entered the
room, John McGuire did not even start from his chair. He gave a faint
smile of welcome, too, and he talked sooner, and talked more--though
there was little of war talk; and for the second time Daniel Burton
did not reach for his pencil.

But the third time he did. A question, a comment, a chance word--
neither Keith nor his father could have told afterward what started
it. They knew only that a sudden light as of a flame leaped into John
McGuire's face--and he was back in the trenches of France and carrying
them with him.

At the second sentence Daniel Burton's fingers were in his pocket, and
at the third his pencil was racing over the paper at breakneck speed.
There was no pause then, no time for thought, no time for careful
forming of words and letters. There was only the breakneck race
between a bit of lead and an impassioned tongue; and when it was all
over, there were only a well-nigh hopeless-looking mass of
hieroglyphics in Daniel Burton's notebook--and the sweat of spent
excitement on the brows of two youths and a man.

"Gee! we got it that time!" breathed Keith, after John McGuire had
gone home.

"Yes; only I was wondering if I had really--got it," murmured Daniel
Burton, eyeing a bit ruefully the confused mass of words and letters
in his notebook. "Still, I reckon I can dig it out all right--if I do
it right away," he finished confidently. And he did dig it out before
he slept that night.

If Daniel Burton and his son Keith thought the thing was done, and it
was going to be easy sailing thereafter, they found themselves greatly
mistaken. John McGuire scarcely said five sentences about the war the
next time they were together, though Daniel Burton had his pencil
poised expectantly from the start. He said only a little more the next
time, and the next; and Daniel Burton pocketed his pencil in despair.
Then came a day when a chance word about a new air raid reported in
the morning paper acted like a match to gunpowder, and sent John
McGuire off into a rapid-fire story that whipped Daniel Burton's
pencil from his pocket and set it to racing again at breakneck speed
to keep up with him.

It was easier after that. Still, every day it was like a game of hide-
and-seek, with Daniel Burton and his pencil ever in pursuit, and with
now and then a casual comment or a tactful question to lure the hiding
story out into the open. Little by little, as the frank comradeship of
Daniel Burton won its way, John McGuire was led to talk more and more
freely; and by Christmas the eager scribe was in possession of a very
complete record of John McGuire's war experiences, dating even from
the early days of his enlistment.

Day by day, as he had taken down the rough notes, Daniel Burton had
followed it up with a careful untangling and copying before he had had
a chance to forget, or to lose the wonderful glow born of the
impassioned telling. Then, from time to time he had sorted the notes
and arranged them in proper sequence, until now he had a complete
story, logical and well-rounded.

It was on Christmas Day that he read the manuscript to Keith. At its
conclusion Keith drew a long, tremulous breath.

"Dad, it's wonderful!" he exclaimed. "How did you do it?"

"You know. You heard yourself."

"Yes; but to copy it like that--! Why, I could hear him tell it as you
read it, dad. I could HEAR him."

"Could you, really? I'm glad. That makes me know I've succeeded. Now
for a publisher!"

"You wouldn't publish it without his--knowing?"

"Certainly not. But I'm going to let a publisher see it, before he
knows."

"Y-yes, perhaps."

"Why, Keith, I'd have to do that. Do you suppose I'd run the risk of
its being turned down, and then have to tell that boy that he couldn't
have the book, after all?"

"No, no, I suppose not. But--it isn't going to be turned down, dad.
Such a wonderful thing can't be turned down."

"Hm-m; perhaps not." Daniel Burton's lips came together a bit grimly.
"But--there ARE wonderful things that won't sell, you know. However,"
he finished with brisk cheerfulness, "this isn't one of my pictures,
nor a bit of Susan's free verse; so there's some hope, I guess.
Anyhow, we'll see--but we won't tell John until we do see."

"All right. I suppose that would be best," sighed Keith, still a
little doubtfully.

They had not long to wait, after all. In a remarkably short time came
back word from the publishers. Most emphatically they wanted the book,
and they wanted it right away. Moreover, the royalty they offered was
so good that it sent Daniel Burton down the stairs two steps at a time
like a boy, in his eagerness to reach Keith with the good news.

"And now for John!" he cried excitedly, as soon as Keith's joyous
exclamations over the news were uttered. "Come, let's go across now."

"But, dad, how--how are you going to tell him?" Keith was holding back
a little.

"Tell him! I'm just going to tell him," laughed the man. "That's
easy."

"I know; but--but---" Keith wet his lips and started again. "You see,
dad, he didn't know we were taking notes of his stories. He couldn't
see us. We--we took advantage of---"

But Daniel Burton would not even listen.

"Shucks and nonsense, Keith!" he cried. Then a little grimly he added:
"I only wish somebody'd take advantage like that of me, and sell a
picture or two when I'm not looking. Come, we're keeping John
waiting." And he took firm hold of his son's arm.

Yet in the McGuire living-room, in the presence of John McGuire
himself, he talked fully five minutes of nothing in particular, before
he said:

"Well, John, I've got some good news for you."

"GOOD news?"

"That's what I'd call it. I--er--hear you're going to have a book out
in the spring."

"I'm going to--WHAT?"

"Have a book out--war stories. They were too good to keep to
ourselves, John, so I jotted them down as you told them, and last week
I sent them off to a publisher."

"A--a real publisher?" The boy's voice shook. Every trace of color had
drained from his face.

"You bet your life--and one of the biggest in the country." Daniel
Burton's own voice was shaking. He had turned his eyes away from John
McGuire's face.

"And they'll--print it?"

"Just as soon as ever you'll sign the contract. And, by the way, that
contract happens to be a mighty good one, for a first book, my boy."

John McGuire drew a long breath. The color was slowly coming back to
his face.

"But I can't seem to quite--believe it," he faltered.

"Nonsense! Simplest thing in the world," insisted Daniel Burton
brusquely. "They saw the stories, liked them, and are going to publish
them. That's all."

"All! ALL!" The blind boy was on his feet, his face working with
emotion. "When all my life I've dreamed and dreamed and longed for---"
He stopped short and sat down. He had the embarrassed air the
habitually reserved person usually displays when caught red-handed
making a "scene." He gave a confused laugh. "I was only thinking--what
a way. You see--I'd always wanted to be a writer, but I'd given it up
long ago. I had my living to earn, and I knew I couldn't earn it--that
way--not at first. I used to say I'd give anything if I could write a
book; and I was just wondering if--if I'd been willing then to have
given--my eyes!"




CHAPTER XXIX

DOROTHY TRIES HER HAND


It was on a mild day early in February that Susan met Dorothy Parkman
on the street. She stopped her at once.

"Well, if I ain't glad to see you!" she cried. "I didn't know you'd
got back."

"I haven't been back long, Susan."

"You hain't been over to see us once, Miss Dorothy," Susan reproached
her.

"I--I have been very busy." Miss Dorothy seemed ill at ease, and
anxious to get away.

"An' you didn't come for a long, long time when you was here last
fall." Susan had laid a detaining hand on the girl's arm now.

"Didn't I?" Miss Dorothy smiled brightly. "Well, perhaps I didn't. But
you didn't need me, anyway. I've heard all about it--the splendid work
Mr. Burton and his son have done for John McGuire. And I'm so glad."

"Oh, yes, that's all right." Susan spoke without enthusiasm.

"And the book is going to be published?"

"Yes, oh, yes." Susan still spoke with a preoccupied frown.

"Why, Susan, what's the matter? I thought you'd be glad."

Susan drew a long sigh.

"I am glad, Miss Dorothy. I'm awful glad--for John McGuire. They say
it's wonderful, the change in him already. He's so proud an' happy to
think he's done it--not sinfully proud, you understand, but just
humbly proud an' glad. An' his ma says he's writin' other things now--
poems an' stories, an' he's as happy as a lark all day. An' I'm awful
glad. But it's Keith hisself that I'm thinkin' of. You see, only
yesterday I found him--cryin'."

"Crying!" Miss Dorothy seemed to have forgotten all about her haste to
get away. She had Susan's arm in HER grasp now. She had pulled her to
one side, too, where they could have a little sheltered place to talk,
in the angle of two store windows.

"Yes, cryin'. You see, 't was like this," hurried on Susan. "Mis'
McGuire was over, an' I'd been readin' a new poem to her an' him. 'T
was a real pretty one, too, if I do say it as shouldn't--the best I
ever done; all about how fame an' beauty an' pleasure didn't count
nothin' beside workin'. I got the idea out of something I found in a
magazine. 'T was jest grand; an' it give me the perspiration right
away to turn it into a poem. An' I did. An' 't was that I was readin'.
I'd jest got it done that mornin'."

"Yes, yes," nodded Miss Dorothy. "I see."

"Well, I never thought of its meanin' anything to Keith, or of his
takin' it nohow wrong; but after Mis' McGuire had gone home (she came
out an' set with me a spell first in the kitchen) I heard a queer
little noise in the settin'-room, an' I went an' looked in. Keith was
at the table, his arms flung straight out in front of him, an' his
head bowed down. An', Miss Dorothy, he was cryin' like a baby."

"Oh, Susan, what did you do? What did you say?"

"Say? Nothin'!" Susan's eyes flashed her scorn. "Do you s'pose I'd let
that poor lamb know I see him cryin'? Well, I guess not! I backed out
as soft as a feather bed, an' I didn't go near that settin'-room for
an hour, nor let any one else. I was a regular dragon-fly guardin' it.
Well, by an' by Keith comes out. His face was white an' strained-
lookin'. But he was smiling, an' he handed out my poem--I'd left it on
the table when I come out with Mis' McGuire. 'I found this paper on
the table, Susan. It's your poem, isn't it?' he says real cheerful-
like. Then he turns kind of quick an' leaves the room without another
word.

"Well, I didn't know then that't was the poem he'd been cryin' over. I
didn't know--till this mornin'. Then somethin' he said made me see
right off."

"Why, Susan, what was it?"

"It was somethin' about--work. But first you wouldn't understand it,
unless you see the poem. An' I can show it to you, 'cause I've got it
right here. I'm tryin' to memorialize it, so I keep it with me all the
time, an' repeat one line over an' over till I get it. It's right here
in my bag. You'll find it's the best I've wrote, Miss Dorothy; I'm
sure you will," she went on a bit wistfully. "You see I used a lot of
the words that was in the magazine--not that I pleasurized it any, of
course. Mine's different, 'cause mine is poetry an' theirs is prosy.
There! I guess maybe you can read it, even if't is my writin'," she
finished, taking a sheet of note-paper from her bag and carefully
spreading it out for Miss Dorothy to read.

And this is what Dorothy read:

    CONTENTMENT

              Wealth
      I asked for the earth--but when in my hands
      It shriveled and crumbled away;
      And the green of its trees and the blue of its skies
      Changed to a somber gray.

                  Beauty
      I asked for the moon--but the shimmering thing
      Was only reflected gold,
      And vanished away at my glance and touch,
      And was then but a tale that is told.

                             Pleasure
      I asked for the stars--and lots of them came,
      And twinkled and danced for me;
      But the whirling lights soon wearied my gaze--
      I squenched their flame in the sea.

                               Fame
      I asked for the sun!--but the fiery ball,
      Brought down from its home on high,
      Scorched and blistered my finger tips,
      As I swirled it back to the sky.

                   Labor
      I asked for a hoe, and I set me to work,
      And my red blood danced as I went:
      At night I rested, and looking back,
      I counted my day well spent.

"But, Susan, I don't see," began Miss Dorothy, lifting puzzled eyes
from the last line of the poem, "I don't see what there is about that
to make Mr. Keith--cry."

"No, I didn't, till this mornin'; an' then--Well, Keith came out into
the kitchen an' begun one of them tramps of his up an' down the room.
It always drives me nearly crazy when he does that, but I can't say
anything, of course. I did begin this mornin' to talk about John
McGuire an' how fine it was he'd got somethin' he could do. I
thought't would take the poor boy's mind off hisself, if I could get
him talkin' about John McGuire---he's been SO interested in John all
winter! An' so glad he could help him. You know he's always so wanted
to HELP somebody hisself instead of always havin' somebody helpin'
him. But, dear me, instead of its bein' a quieter now for him, it was
a regular stirrup.

"'That's just it, that's just it, Susan,' he moans. 'You've got to
have work or you die. There's nothin' in the whole world like work--
YOUR WORK! John McGuire's got his work, an' I'm glad of it. But
where's mine? Where's mine, I tell you?'

"An' I told him he'd jest been havin' his work, helpin' John McGuire.
You know it was wonderful, perfectly wonderful, Miss Dorothy, the way
them two men got hold of John McGuire. You know John wouldn't speak to
anybody, not anybody, till Keith an' his father found some way to get
on the inside of his shell. An' Keith's been so happy all winter doin'
it; an' his father, too. So I tried to remind him that he'd been doin'
his work.

"But it didn't do no good. Keith said that was all very well, an' he
was glad, of course; but that was only a little bit of a thing, an' 't
was all past an' gone, an' John didn't need 'em any more, an' there
wasn't anything left for him now at all. Oh, Miss Dorothy, he talked
awfully. I never heard him run on so. An' I knew, from a lot of it
that he said, that he was thinkin' of that poem--he wouldn't ask for
wealth or beauty or fame, or anything, an' that there didn't anything
count but labor. You see?"

"Yes, I--see." Miss Dorothy's voice was very low. Her face was turned
quite away, yet Susan was very sure that there were tears in her eyes.

"An' his father!--he's 'most as bad as Keith," sighed Susan. "They're
both as nervous as witches, what with the war an' all, an' they not
bein' able to do anything. Oh, they do give money--lots of it--Liberty
Bonds an' Red Cross, an' drives, of course. You knew they'd got it
now--their money, didn't you, Miss Dorothy?"

"Yes, I had heard so."

"Not that it seems to do 'em any particular good," complained Susan
wistfully. "Oh, of course things ain't so--so ambiguous as they was,
an' we have more to eat an' wear, an' don't have to worry about bills.
But they ain't any happier, as I can see. If only Keith could find
somethin'--"

"Yes, I know," sighed Miss Dorothy again, as she turned slowly away.
"I wish he--could."

"Well, come to see us, won't you?" urged Susan anxiously. "That'll
help some--it'll help a lot."

But Miss Dorothy did not seem to have heard. At least she did not
answer. Yet not twenty-four hours later she was ringing the Burtons'
doorbell.

"No, no--not there! I want to see YOU," she panted a little
breathlessly, when Susan would have led the way to the living-room.

"But Keith would be so glad--" begged Susan.

"No, no! I particularly don't want him to know I am here," insisted
Dorothy.

And without further ado, but with rebellious lips and eyes, Susan led
the way to the kitchen.

"Susan, I have a scheme, I think, that may help out Mr. Keith," began
the young girl abruptly. "I'll have to begin by telling you something
of what I've seen during these last two or three months, while I've
been away. A Mr. Wilson, an old college friend of my father's, has
been taking a lot of interest in the blind--especially since the war.
He got to thinking of the blinded soldiers and wishing he could help
them. He had seen some of them in Canada, and talked with them. What
he thought of first for them was brooms, and basket-weaving and chair-
caning, same as everybody does. But he found they had a perfect horror
of those things. They said nobody bought such things except out of
pity--they'd rather have the machine-made kind. And these men didn't
want things bought of them out of pity. You see, they were big, well,
strong, young fellows, like John McGuire here; and they were groping
around, trying to find a way to live all those long years of darkness
that they knew were ahead of them. They didn't have any especial
talent. But they wanted to work,--do something that was necessary--not
be charity folks, as they called it."

"I know," responded Susan sympathetically.

"Well, this Mr. Wilson is at the head of a big electrical machinery
manufacturing company near Chicago, like Mr. Sanborn's here, you know.
And suddenly one day it came to him that he had the very thing right
in his own shop--a necessary kind of work that the blind could be
taught to do."

"My lan', what was it? Think of blind folks goin' to work in a big
shop like Tom Sanborn's!"

"I know it. But there was something. It was wrapping the coils of wire
with tape. Mr. Wilson said they used hundreds of thousands of these
coils all the time, and they had to be wrapped to insulate them. It
was this work that he believed the blind could learn to do. Anyhow, he
determined to try it. And try it he did. He sent for those soldiers he
had talked with in Canada, and he took two or three of father's
patients, and opened a little winding-room with a good electrical
engineer in charge. And, do you know? it was wonderful, the way those
poor fellows took hold of that work! Why, they got really skillful in
no time, and they learned to do it swiftly, too."

"My lan'!" breathed Susan again.

"They did. He took me in to see them one day. It was just a big room
on the ground floor of an office building. He didn't put them in his
shop. He said he wanted to keep them separate, for the present,
anyway. It had two or three long tables, and the superintendent moved
up and down the room overseeing their work, and helping where it was
necessary. There was a new man that morning, and it was perfectly
wonderful how he took hold of it. And they were all so happy, laughing
and talking, and having the best time ever; but they sobered up real
earnest when Mr. Wilson introduced one or two of them to me. One man
in particular--he was one of the soldiers, a splendid, great, blond
fellow six feet tall, and only twenty-one--told me what this work
meant to them; how glad they were to feel of real use in the world.
Then his face flushed, and his shoulders straightened a bit. 'And
we're even helping a little to win the war,' he said, 'for these coils
we are winding now are for some armatures to go in some big motors
that are going to be used in making munitions. So you see, we are
helping--a little.' Bless his heart! He didn't know how much he was
helping every one, just by his big, brave courage.

"Well, Susan, all this gave me an idea, after what you said yesterday
about Mr. Keith. And I wondered--why couldn't he wind coils, too? And
maybe he'd get others to do it also. So I went to Mr. Sanborn, and
he's perfectly willing to let us give it a trial. He's pleased and
interested, and says he will furnish everything for the experiment,
including a first-class engineer to superintend; only he can't spend
any time over it himself, and we'll have to get somebody else to take
charge and make arrangements, about the place, and the starting of it,
and all that. And, Susan, now comes my second idea. Could we--do you
suppose we could get Mr. Daniel Burton to take charge of it?"

"Oh, Miss Dorothy, if we only could!"

"It would be so fine for Mr. Keith, and for all the others. I've been
hearing everywhere how wonderfully he got hold of John McGuire."

"He did, he did," cried Susan, "an' he was like a different man all
the time he was doin' it. He hain't had no use for his paintin'
lately, an' he's been so uneasy. I'm sure he'll do it, if you ask
him."

"Good! Then I will. Is--is he at home to-day?"

"Yes, he's upstairs. I'll call him." Susan sprang to her feet with
alacrity.

"But, Susan, just a minute!" Miss Dorothy had put out a detaining
hand. "Is--is Mr. Keith here, too?"

"Yes, both of 'em. Keith is in the settin'-room an' I'll call his
father down. 'T won't take but jest a minute." Susan was plainly
chafing at the detaining hand.

"No, no, Susan!" Miss Dorothy, too, had sprung to her feet. "If--if
Mr. Keith is here I'll wait. I want to see Mr. Daniel Burton first--
er--alone: to--to tell him about it, you know," she added hastily, as
Susan began to frown her disappointment.

"But I don't see why," argued Susan, her disapproving eyes on the
girl's flushed cheeks. "I should think you'd want to talk it up with
both of 'em."

"Yes, yes, of course; but not--not at first," stammered Miss Dorothy,
plainly growing more and more embarrassed as she tried to appear less
so. "I would rather--er--that is, I think it would be better to ask
Mr. Daniel Burton first, and then after we get it well started let him
tell his son. So I'll come to-morrow in the morning--at ten. Mr. Keith
is with Mr. John McGuire, then, isn't he? And over at his house? I
heard he was."

"Yes, he is, most generally."

"Then I'll come then. If--if you'll tell Mr. Daniel Burton, please,"
hurried on Miss Dorothy, "and ask him to see me. And please, PLEASE
keep it from Mr. Keith, Susan. Truly, I don't want him to know a thing
about it till his father and I have--have got it all fixed up," she
finished.

"But, Miss Dorothy, I know that Keith would want---"

"Susan!" With an imperiousness quite foreign to her usual manner, Miss
Dorothy cut in sharply. "If you don't promise to speak only to Mr.
Daniel Burton about this matter I shall not come at all."

"Oh, lan' sakes! Well, well, have it your own way," snapped Susan.

"You promise?"

"Yes, I promise." Susan's lips obeyed, but her eyes were still
mutinous.

"Good! Thank you, Susan. Then I'll come to-morrow at ten," nodded Miss
Dorothy, once again her smiling, gracious self, as she turned to leave
the room.




CHAPTER XXX

DANIEL BURTON'S "JOB"


Dorothy came at ten, or, to be strictly accurate, at five minutes past
ten. The additional five minutes had been consumed by her going out of
her way around the block so that she might see if Keith were visible
in one of the McGuires' windows. He was visible--and when she went up
the Burton walk at five minutes past ten, her step was confident and
her face eager; and there was about her manner none of the furtive,
nervous questioning that had marked her coming the day before.

"Good-morning, Susan," she began cheerily, as Susan answered her ring.
"Did Mr. Burton say he would see me?"

"He did. And Mr. Keith is over to the McGuires' all safe, so you don't
have to worry about him." Susan's eyes were still mutinous, her voice
still coldly disapproving.

"Yes, I know he is," nodded Miss Dorothy with a bright smile.

"Oh, you do!"

"Yes. Well, that is--er--I--" Under Susan's uncompromising frigidity
Miss Dorothy's stammering tongue came to a painful pause.

"Humph!" vouchsafed Susan. "Well, come in, an' I'll tell Mr. DANIEL
Burton you're here."

That the emphasis on "Daniel" was not lost was shown by the sudden
broad smile that chased away the confusion on Miss Dorothy's face, as
Susan led the way to the living-room. Two minutes later Daniel Burton,
thinner, paler, and more worn-looking than Dorothy had ever seen him
before, entered the room and held out a cordial hand.

"Good-morning, Miss Dorothy. I'm glad to see you," he said. "What is
it,--Red Cross, Y.M.C.A., Smileage Books?" The whimsical smile on his
lips only served to emphasize the somber pain in his eyes.

"Not any of them. Then Susan didn't tell you?"

"Not a word. Sit down, please."

"Thank you. Then I shall have to begin at the beginning," sighed the
girl a little constrainedly as she took the chair he offered her. "I--
I have a certain project that I want to carry out, Mr. Burton, and I--
I want your help."

"Why, of course--certainly. I shall be glad to, I know." Daniel
Burton's hand had already reached for his check-book. "Any project of
yours, Miss Dorothy--! How much do you want?"

But Miss Dorothy lifted her hand, palm outward.

"Thank you, Mr. Burton; but not any--in money, just yet. Oh, it'll
take money, probably, to get it started, before it's on a self-
supporting basis, I suppose. But it isn't money I want to-day, Mr.
Burton. It--it's yourself."

The man gave a short, dry laugh, not untinged with bitterness.

"I'm afraid I can't endorse either your taste or your judgment there,
Miss Dorothy. You've come for a poor stick. I can't imagine myself as
being much benefit to any sort of project. However, I shall be glad to
hear about it, of course. What is it?"

And Miss Dorothy told him. With her eyes shining, and her voice
quivering with eagerness, she told the story as she had told it to
Susan the afternoon before, but with even greater elaboration of
detail.

"And so now, Mr. Burton, you--you will help, won't you?" she begged,
in closing.

"Help! But my dear girl, how?"

"Take charge. Be the head and shoulders, the backbone of the whole
thing. Oh, yes, I know it's a whole lot to ask," she hurried on, as
she saw the dawning dismay and refusal in his face. "But I thought,
for the sake of the cause--"

"The cause!" The man's voice was bitter as he interrupted her. "I'd
crawl to France on my hands and knees if that would do any good! But,
my dear young lady, I'm an ignoramus, and worse than an ignoramus,
when it comes to machinery. I'll venture to wager that I wouldn't know
the tape from the coils--or whatever they are."

"Oh, we'd have an engineer for that part, of course," interposed the
girl eagerly. "And we want your son, too."

"You want Keith! Pray, do you expect him to teach how to wind coils?"

"No--no--not exactly;--though I think he will be teaching before he
realizes it. I want him to learn to wind them himself, and thus get
others to learn. You don't understand, Mr. Burton. I want you and Mr.
Keith to--to do just what you did for John McGuire--arouse interest
and enthusiasm and get them to do it. Don't you see?"

"But that was Keith, not I, in the case of John McGuire."

"It was you at the last," corrected the girl gently. "Mr. Burton, John
McGuire wouldn't have any book out this spring if it weren't for you
and--your eyes."

"Hm-m, perhaps not. Still there'd have been a way, probably. But even
if I grant that--all you say in the case of John McGuire--that isn't
winding armatures, or whatever they are."

"Mr. Burton, you aren't going to refuse," pleaded the girl.

"What else can I do? Miss Dorothy, you don't want to stamp this
project of yours a FAILURE from the start, do you?" Words, voice,
manner, and gesture were unmistakable. All the longing and heartache
and bitterness of years of fruitless effort and final disappointment
pulsated through that one word FAILURE.

For a moment nobody spoke. Daniel Burton had got to his feet and
crossed the room to the window. The girl, watching him with
compassionate eyes as he stood looking out, had caught her breath with
a little choking sigh. Suddenly she lifted her head resolutely.

"Mr. Burton, you've got one gift that--that I don't believe you
realize at all that you possess. Like John McGuire you can make folks
SEE what you are talking about. Perhaps it's because you can paint
pictures with a brush. Or--or perhaps it's because you've got such a
wonderful command of words."(Miss Dorothy stumbled a little
precipitately into this sentence--she had not failed to see the
disdainful movement of the man's head and shoulders at the mention of
his pictures.) "Whatever it is," she hurried on, "you've got it. I saw
it first years ago, with--with your son, when I used to see him at
father's. He would sit and talk to me by the hour about the woods and
fields and mountains, the sunsets and the flowers back home; and
little by little I found out that they were the pictures you drew for
him--on the canvas of his soul. You've done it again now for John
McGuire. Do you suppose you could have caught those wonderful stories
of his with your pencil, if you hadn't been able to help him visualize
them for himself--you and Keith together with your wonderful
enthusiasm and interest?

"I know you couldn't. And that's what I want you now for--you and your
son. Because he is blind, and knows, and understands, as no seeing
person can know and understand, they will trust him; they will follow
where he leads. But behind him has got to be YOU. You've got to be the
eyes for--for them all; not to teach the work--we'll have others for
that. Any good mechanic will do for that part. But it's the other part
of it--the soul of the thing. These men, lots of them, are but little
more than boys--big, strong, strapping fellows with the whole of life
before them. And they are--blind. Whichever way they turn a big black
curtain shuts them in. And it's those four black curtains that I want
you to paint. I want you to give them something to look at, something
to think of, something to live for. And you can do it. And when you
have done it, you'll find they're the best and--and the biggest
pictures you ever painted." Her voice broke with the last word and
choked into silence.

Over at the window the man stood motionless. One minute, two minutes
passed. Then a bit abruptly he turned, crossed the room to the girl's
side, and held out his hand.

"Miss Dorothy, I--I'll take the job," he said.

He spoke lightly, and he smiled as he said the words; but neither the
smile nor the lightness of his manner quite hid the shake in his voice
nor the moisture in his eyes.

"Thank you, Mr. Burton. I was sure you would," cried the girl.

"And now for Keith! He's over to the McGuires'. I'll get him!"
exclaimed the man boyishly.

But Miss Dorothy was instantly on her feet.

"No, no, please," she begged a little breathlessly. "I'd rather you
didn't--now. I--I think we'd better get it a little farther along
before we tell him. There's a whole lot to do, you know--getting the
room and the materials and the superintendent, and all that; and there
isn't a thing he can do--yet."

"All right. Very good. Perhaps that would be better," nodded the man.
"But, let me tell you, I already have some workers for your project."

"You mean Jack Green, here in town?"

"No. Oh, we'd want him, of course; but it's some others--a couple of
boys from Hillsboro. I had a letter yesterday from the father of one
of the boys, asking what to do with his son. He thought because of--of
Keith, that I could help him. It was a pitiful letter. The man was
heart-broken and utterly at sea. His boy--only nineteen--had come home
blind, and well-nigh crazed with the tragedy of it. And the father
didn't know which way to turn. That's why he had appealed to me. You
see, on account of Keith--"

"Yes, I understand," said the girl gently, as the man left his
sentence unfinished.

"I've had others, too--several of them--in the last few weeks. If
you'll wait I'll get the letters." He was already halfway to the door.
"It may take a minute or two to look them up; but--they'll be worth
it, I think."

"Of course they will," she cried eagerly. "They'll be just exactly
what we want, and I'm not in a bit of a hurry," she finished, dropping
back in her chair as the door closed behind him.

Alone, she looked about the room, her eyes wistful, brimming with
unshed tears. Over by the window was Keith's chair, before it the
table, with a half-completed picture puzzle spread upon it. Near the
table was a set of shelves containing other picture puzzles, games,
and books--all, as the girl well knew, especially designed and
constructed for eyes that could not see.

She had risen to her feet and half started to cross the room toward
the table when the door to the side hall opened and Keith Burton
entered the room.

With a half-stifled gasp the girl stepped back to her chair. The blind
boy stopped instantly, his face turned toward her.

"Is that--you, Susan?"

The girl wet her lips, but no words came.

"Who's there, please?" He spoke sharply this time. As everybody knew--
who knew Keith--the one thing that angered him more than anything else
was the attempted deception as to one's presence in the room.

Miss Dorothy gave a confused little laugh, and put her hand to her
throat.

"Why, Keith, it's only I! Don't look so--"

"You?" For one brief moment his face lighted up as with a hidden
flame; then instantly it changed. It became like the gray of ashes
after the flame is spent. "Why didn't you speak, then?" he questioned.
"It did no good to keep quiet. You mustn't forget that I have ears--if
I haven't eyes."

"Nonsense, Keith!" She laughed again confusedly, though her own face
had paled a little. "I did speak as soon as I caught my breath;--
popping in on a body like that!"

"But I didn't know--you were here," stammered the young fellow
uncertainly. "Nobody called me. I beg your pardon if--" He came to a
helpless pause.

"Not a bit of it! You needn't. It wasn't necessary at all." The girl
tossed off the words with a lightness so forced that it was almost
flippancy. "You see, I didn't come to see you at all. It was your
father."

"My father!"

"Certainly."

"But--but does he know?"

The girl laughed merrily--too merrily for sincerity.

"Know? Indeed he does. We've just been having a lovely talk. He's gone
upstairs for some letters. He's coming right back--right back."

"Oh-h!" Was it an indefinable something in her voice, or was it the
repetition of the last two words? Whatever it was that caused it,
Keith turned away with a jerk, walked with the swift sureness of long
familiarity straight to the set of shelves and took down a book. "Then
I'll not disturb you any further--as long as you're not needing me,"
he said tersely. "I only came for this." And with barely a touch of
his cane to the floor and door-casing, he strode from the room.

The pity of it--that he could not have seen Dorothy Parkman's eyes
looking after him!




CHAPTER XXXI

WHAT SUSAN DID NOT SEE


There was apparently no limit to Daniel Burton's enthusiastic
cooperation with Dorothy Parkman on the matter of establishing a
workroom for the blind. He set to work with her at once. The very next
morning after her initial visit, he went with her to Mazie Sanborn's
father, and together they formulated the first necessary plans.

Thomas Sanborn was generous, and cordially enthusiastic, though his
words and manner carried the crisp terseness of the busy man whose
time is money. At the end of five minutes he summoned one David Patch
to the office, and introduced him to Miss Dorothy and Daniel Burton as
one of his most expert engineers.

"And now I'll turn the whole thing over to you," he declared briskly,
with his finger already on the button that would summon his
stenographer for dictation. "Just step into that room there and stay
as long as you like. Whatever Patch says I'll back up. You'll find him
thoroughly capable and trustworthy. And now good luck to you," he
finished, throwing wide the door of the adjoining room.

The next moment Miss Dorothy and Daniel Burton found themselves alone
with the keen-eyed, alert little man who had been introduced as David
Patch. And David Patch did, indeed, appear to be very capable. He
evidently understood his business, and he gave interested attention to
Miss Dorothy's story of what she had seen, and of what she wished now
to try to do. He took them then for a tour of the great shop,
especially to the department where the busy fingers were winding with
tape the thousands of wire coils.

Miss Dorothy's eyes sparkled with excitement, and she fairly clapped
her hands in her delight, while Daniel Burton said that even he could
see the possibilities of that kind of work for their purpose.

At the end of a long hour of talking and planning, Miss Dorothy and
Daniel Burton started for home. But even then Daniel Burton had yet
more to say, for at his gate, which was on Miss Dorothy's way home, he
begged her to come in for a moment.

"I had another letter to-day about a blind soldier--this time from
Baltimore. I want to show it to you. You see, so many write to me, on
account of my own boy. You will come in, just a minute?"

"Why, yes, of course I--will." The pause, and the half-stifled word
that finished the sentence came as the tall figure of Keith Burton
turned the corner of the piazza and walked toward the steps.

"Hullo! Dad?" Keith's voice was questioning.

"Yes; and--"

"And Dorothy Parkman," broke in the girl with a haste so precipitate
as to make her almost choke.

"Miss Parkman?" Once again, for a moment, Keith's face lighted as with
a flame. "Come up. Come around on the south side," he cried eagerly.
"I've been sunning myself there. You'd think it was May instead of
March."

"No, she can't go and sun herself with you," interposed Daniel Burton
with mock severity. "She's coming with me into the house. I want to
show her something."

"Well, I--I like that," retorted the youth. He spoke jauntily, and
gave a short little laugh. But the light had died from his face and a
slow red had crept to his forehead.

"Well, she can't. She's coming with me," reiterated the man. "Now run
back to your sun bath. If you're good maybe we'll be out pretty soon,"
he laughed back at his son, as he opened the house door for his guest.
"That's right--you didn't want him to know, yet, did you?" he added,
looking a bit anxiously into the girl's somewhat flushed face as he
closed the hall door.

"Quite right. No, I don't want him to know yet. There's so much to be
done to get started, and he'd want to help. And he couldn't help about
that part; and't would only fret him and make him unhappy."

"My idea exactly," nodded the man. "When we get the room, and the
goods there, we'll want to tell him then."

"Of course, you'll tell him then," cried the girl.

"Yes, indeed, of course we will!" exclaimed the man, very evidently
not noticing the change in the pronoun. "Now, if you'll wait a minute
I'll get that letter, then we'll go out to Keith on the piazza."

It was a short letter, and one quickly read; and very soon they were
out on the piazza again. But Miss Dorothy said "No, no!" very hastily
when he urged her to go around on the other side; and she added, "I
really must go home now," as she hurried down the steps. Daniel Burton
went then around the corner of the piazza to explain her absence to
his son Keith. But he need not have hurried. His son Keith was not
there.

For all the good progress that was made on that first day, things
seemed to move a bit slowly after that. To begin with, the matter of
selecting a suitable room gave no little difficulty. The right room in
the right location seemed not to be had; and Daniel Burton even
suggested that they use some room in his own house. But after a little
thought he gave up this idea as being neither practical nor desirable.

Meanwhile he was in daily communication with Dorothy Parkman, and the
two spent hours together, thrashing out the different problems one by
one as they arose, sometimes at her home, more frequently at his; for
"home" to Dorothy in Hinsdale meant the Sanborn house, where Mazie was
always in evidence--and Daniel Burton did not care for Mazie.
Especially he did not care for her advice and assistance on the
problems that were puzzling him now.

To be sure, at his own home there was Keith; but he contrived to avoid
Keith on most occasions. Besides, Keith himself seemed quite inclined
to keep out of the way (particularly if he heard the voice of Dorothy
Parkman), which did not disturb Daniel Burton in the least, under the
circumstances. Until they got ready to tell Keith, he was rather glad
that he did keep so conveniently out of the way. And as Dorothy seemed
always glad to avoid seeing Keith or talking to him, there was really
very little trouble on that score; and they could have their
consultations in peace and quietness.

And there were so many of them--those consultations! When at last the
room was found, there were the furnishings to select, and the final
plans to be made for the real work to be done. David Patch proved
himself to be invaluable then. As if by magic a long table appeared,
and the coils and the tape, and all the various paraphernalia of a
properly equipped winding-room marched smoothly into place. Meanwhile
three soldiers and one civilian stood ready and eager to be taught,
needing only the word of command to begin.

"And now we'll tell Keith," said Daniel Burton.

"Yes; now you must tell Keith," said Miss Dorothy.

"To-morrow at nine."

"To-morrow at nine," bowed Miss Dorothy.

"I'll bring him down and we'll show him."

"And I do so hope he'll like it."

"Of course, he'll like it!" cried Daniel Burton. "You wait and see."

But she did not see. She was not there to see.

Promptly at nine o'clock Daniel Burton appeared at the winding-room
with Keith. But Dorothy Parkman was nowhere in sight. He waited ten,
fifteen minutes; then he told Keith the story of the room, and of what
they hoped to do there, fuming meanwhile within himself because he had
to tell it alone.

But it was not lack of interest that kept Miss Dorothy away. It could
not have been; for that very afternoon she sought Daniel Burton out
and asked eagerly what his son had said, and how he had taken it. And
her eyes shone and her breath quickened at the story Daniel Burton
told; and so eager was she to know every little word that had fallen
from Keith's lips that she kept Daniel Burton repeating over and over
each minute detail.

Yet the next day when Keith and four other blind youths began work in
earnest, she never once went near Keith's chair, though she went often
to the others, dropping here and there a word of encouragement or a
touch of aiding fingers. When night came, however, and she found an
opportunity for a few words alone with Daniel Burton, she told him
that, in her opinion, Keith had done the best work of the five, and
that it was perfectly marvelous the way he was taking hold. And again
her eyes sparkled and her breath quickened; and she spent the entire
ten minutes talking about Keith to his father. Yet the next day, when
the work began again, she still went to the back of every chair but
Keith's.

Things happened very rapidly after that. It was not a week before the
first long table in the big room was filled with eager workers, and
the second one had to be added to take care of the newcomers.

The project was already the talk of the town, and not the least
excited and interested of the observers was John McGuire's mother.
When the news came of the second table's being added to the equipment
of the place, she hurried over to Susan's kitchen without delay--
though with the latest poem of her son's as the ostensible excuse.

"It's 'The Stumbling-Block,'" she announced. "He just got it done
yesterday, an' I copied it for you. I think it's the best yet," she
beamed, handing over a folded paper. "It's kind of long, so don't stop
to read it now. Say, is it true? Have they had to put in another table
at that blind windin'-room?"

"They have."

"Well, if that ain't the greatest! I think it's just grand. They took
my John down there to see the place yesterday. Do you know? That boy
is a different bein' since his book an' his writin'. An' he's learnin'
to do such a lot of things for himself, an' he's so happy in it! An'
he doesn't mind seein' anybody now. An' it's all owin' to your
wonderful Keith an' his father. I wouldn't ever have believed it of
them."

Susan's chin came up a bit.

"I would. I KNEW. An' I always told you that Daniel Burton was a
superlative man in every way, an' his son's jest like him. Only you
wouldn't believe me."

"Nobody'd believe you," maintained Mrs. McGuire spiritedly. "Nobody'd
believe such a thing could be as my John bein' changed like that--an'
all those others down to the windin'-room, too. They say it's
perfectly marvelous what Keith an' his father are doin' with those men
an' boys. Aren't they awful happy over it--Keith an' his father, I
mean?"

"Daniel Burton is. Why, he's like a different man, Mis' McGuire. You'd
know that, jest to see him walk, an' hear him speak. An' I don't hear
nothin' more about his longin' to get over there. I guess he thinks
he's got work enough to do right here. An' he hardly ever touches his
war maps these days."

"But ain't Keith happy, too?"

"Y-yes, an' no," hesitated Susan, her face clouding a little. "Oh,
he's gone into it heart an' soul; an' while he's workin' on somethin'
he's all right. But when it's all quiet, an' he's settin' alone, I
don't like the look on his face. But I know he's glad to be helpin'
down there; an' I know it's helpin' him, too."

"It's helpin' everybody--not forgettin' Miss Dorothy Parkman," added
Mrs. McGuire, with a smile and a shrug, as she rose to go. "But, then,
of course, we all know what she's after."

"After! What do you mean?"

"Susan Betts!" With a jerk Mrs. McGuire faced about. "It ain't
possible, with eyes in your head, that you hain't seen!"

"Seen what?"

"Well, my lan'! With that girl throwin' herself at Daniel Burton's
head for the last six weeks, an' you calmly set there an' ask 'seen
what?'!"

"Daniel Burton--Dorothy Parkman!" There was no mistaking Susan's
dumfounded amazement.

"Yes, Daniel Burton an' Dorothy Parkman. Oh, I used to think it was
Keith; but when the money came to old Daniel I guess she thought he
wasn't so old, after all. Besides, Keith, with his handicap--you
couldn't blame the girl, after all, I s'pose."

"Daniel Burton an' Dorothy Parkman!" repeated Susan, this time with
the faintness of stupefaction.

"Why, Susan, you must've seen it--her runnin' in here every day,
walkin' home with him, an' talk, talk, talkin' to him every chance she
gets!"

"But, they--they've been makin' plans for--for the work," murmured
Susan.

"Work! Well, I guess it no need to've taken quite so many
consultations for just the work. Besides, she never thought of such a
scheme as this before the money came, did she? Not much she did! Oh,
come, Susan, wake up! She'll be walkin' off with him right under your
nose if you don't look out," finished Mrs. McGuire with a sly laugh,
as she took her departure.

Left alone, Susan sat for some time absorbed in thought, a deep frown
on her face; then with a sigh and a shrug, as if throwing off an
incomprehensible burden, she opened the paper Mrs. McGuire had left
with her.

Once, twice, three times she read the verses; then with a low chuckle
she folded up the paper, tucked it into her apron pocket, and rose to
her feet. A minute later she had attacked the pile of dishes in the
sink, and was singing lustily:

"I've taken my worries, an' taken my woes,
 I have, I have,
 An' shut 'em up where nobody knows,
 I have, I have.
 I chucked 'em down, that's what I did,
 An' now I'm sittin' upon the lid,
 An' we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marchin' home.
 I'm sittin' upon the lid, I am,
 Hurrah! Hurrah!
 I'm tryin' to be a little lamb,
 Hurrah! Hurrah!
 But I'm feelin' more like a great big slam
 Than a nice little peaceful woolly lamb,
 But we'll all feel gay when Johnny comes marchin' home."




CHAPTER XXXII

THE KEY


There was no work at the winding-room Saturday afternoons, and it was
on Saturday afternoon that Susan found Keith sitting idle-handed in
his chair by the window in the living-room.

As was her custom she spoke the moment she entered the room--but not
before she had noted the listless attitude and wistful face of the
youth over by the window.

"Keith, I've been thinkin'."

"Bad practice, Susan--sometimes," he laughed whimsically.

"Not this time."

"Poetry?"

She shook her head.

"No. I ain't poetizin' so much these days, though I did write one
yesterday--about the ways of the world. I'm goin' to read it to you,
too, by an' by. But that's jest a common poem about common, every-day
folks. An' this thing I was thinkin' about was--was diff'rent."

"And so you couldn't put this into a poem--eh?"

Susan shook her head again and sighed.

"No. An' it's been that way lots o' times lately, 'specially since I
seen John McGuire's poems--so fine an' bumtious! Oh, I have the
perspiration to write, lots o' times, an' I yield up to it an' write.
But somehow, when it's done, I hain't said a mite what I want to, an'
I hain't said it the way I want to, either. I think maybe havin' so
many of 'em disinclined by them editors has made me kinder fearsome."

"I'm afraid it has, Susan," he smiled.

"Now, this afternoon, what I was thinkin' about--once I'd've made a
poem of that easy; but to-day I didn't even try. I KNEW I couldn't do
it. An', say, Keith, it was you I was thinkin' about."

"Heavens, Susan! A poem out of me? No wonder your muse balked! I'm
afraid you'd find even--er--perspiration wouldn't make a poem out of
me."

"Keith, do you remember?" Susan was still earnest and preoccupied. "I
told you once that it didn't make no diff'rence if God had closed the
door of your eyes. He'd open up another room to you sometime, an' give
you the key to unlock the door. An' he has. An' now you've got it--
that key."

"I've got it--the key!"

"Yes. It's that work down there--helpin' them blind men an' boys to
get hold of their souls again. Oh, Keith, don't you see? An' it's such
a big, wide room that God has given you, an' it's all yours. There
ain't no one that can help them poor blind soldiers like you can. An'
you couldn't 'a' done it if the door of your eyes hadn't been shut
first. That was what give you the key to this big, beautiful room of
helpin' our boys what's come back to us, blinded, an' half-crazed with
despair an' discouragement. Oh, if I only could make you see it the
way I do! But I can't say it--the right way. There's such a big,
beautiful idea there, if only I could make you see it. That's why I
wanted to write the poem."

"I can see it, Susan--without the poem." Keith was not smiling now.
His face was turned away and his voice had grown a bit unsteady. "And
I'm glad you showed it to me. It's going to help me a whole lot if--if
I'll just keep remembering that key, I think."

Susan threw a quick look into Keith's averted face, then promptly she
reached for the folded paper in her apron pocket.

There were times when Susan was wise beyond her station as to when the
subject should be changed.

"An' now I'm goin' to read you the poem I did write," she announced
briskly--"about every-day folks--diff'rent kinds of folks. Six of 'em.
It shows that there ain't any one anywhere that's really satisfied
with their lot, when you come right down to it, whether they've got
eyes or not."

And she began to read:

    THE WAY OF THE WORLD

     A beggar girl on the curbstone sat,
     All ragged an' hungry-eyed.
     Across the street came Peggy McGee;
     The beggar girl saw an' sighed.

    "I wish'd I was rich--as rich as she,
     For she has got things to eat;
     An' clo's an' shoes, an' a place to live,
     An' she don't beg in the street."

     When Peggy McGee the corner turned,
     SHE climbed to her garret high
     From there she gazed through curtainless panes
     At hangin's of lace near by.

    "Ah, me!" sighed Peggy. "If I had those
     An' rugs like hers on the floor,
     It seems to me that I'd never ask
     For nothin' at all no more."

    .   .   .  .  .

     From out those curtains that selfsame day,
     Looked a face all sour an' thin.
    "I hate to live on this horrid street,
     In the children's yellin' din!

    "An' where's the good of my nice new things,
     When nobody'll see or know?
     I really think that I ought to be
     A-livin' in Rich Man's Row."

     A carriage came from "Rich Man's Row,"
     An' rumbled by to the park.
     A lady sat on the carriage seat;
    "Oh, dear," said she, "what an ark!

    "If only this coach could show some style,
     My clothes, so shabby, would pass.
     Now there's an auto quite my kind--
     But 'tisn't my own--alas!"

     The "auto" carried a millionaire,
     Whose brow was knotted an' stern.
    "A million is nowhere, now," thought he,
    "That's somethin' we all must learn.

    "It's millions MANY one has to have,
     To be in the swim at all.
     This tryin' to live when one is so poor
     Is really all folderol!"

    .  .  .  .  .

     A man of millions was just behind;
     The beggar was passin' by.
     Business at beggin' was good that day,
     An' the girl was eatin' pie.

     The rich man looked, an' he groaned aloud,
     An' swore with his gouty pain.
     "I'd give my millions, an' more beside,
     Could I eat like that again!"

"Now, ain't that jest like folks?" Susan demanded, as she finished the
last verse.

Keith laughed.

"I suspect it is, Susan. And--and, by the way, I shouldn't wonder if
this were quite the right time to show that I'm no different from
other folks. You see, I, too,--er--am going to make a change--in
living."

"A change in living! What do you mean?"

"Oh, not now--not quite yet. But you see I'VE been doing some
thinking, too. I've been thinking that if father--that is, WHEN father
and Miss Parkman are married--that--"

But Susan interrupted with a groan.

"My sakes, Keith, have you seen it, too?"

Keith laughed embarrassedly.

"To be sure I have! You don't have to have eyes to see that, do you,
Susan?"

"Oh, good lan', I don't know," frowned Susan irritably. "I didn't
s'pose---"

She did not finish her sentence, and after a moment's silence Keith
began again to speak.

"I've been talking a little to David Patch--the superintendent, you
know. We're going to take the whole house where we are, for our work,
pretty quick, and when we do, Patch and his wife will come there to
live upstairs; and they'll take me to board. I asked them. Then I'll
be right there handy all the time, you see, which will be a fine
arrangement all around."

"A fine arrangement, indeed--with you 'way off down there, an' livin'
with David Patch!"

"But, Susan," argued Keith, a bit wearily, "I couldn't be living here,
you know."

"I should like to know why not."

"Because I--couldn't." He had grown very white now. "Besides, I--I
think they would be happier without me here; and I know--I should be."
His voice was low and almost indistinct, but Susan heard--and
understood. "The very fact that once I--I thought--that I was foolish
enough to think--But, of course, as soon as I remembered my blindness
--And to tie a beautiful young girl down to--" He stopped short and
pulled himself up. "Susan, are you still there?"

"I'm right here, Keith." Susan spoke constrainedly.

He gave an embarrassed laugh. A painful red had suffused his face.

"I'm afraid I got to talking--and forgetting that I wasn't--alone," he
stumbled on hurriedly. "I--I meant to go on to say that I hoped they'd
be very happy. Dad deserves it; and--and if they'd only hurry up and
get it over with, it--it would be easier--for me. Not that it matters,
of course. Dad has had an awful lot to put up with me already, as it
is, you know--the trouble, the care, and the disappointment. You see,
I--I was going to make up to him for all he had lost. I was going to
be Jerry and Ned and myself, all in a bunch. And now to turn out to be
nothing--and worse than nothing---"

"Keith Burton, you stop!" It was the old imperious Susan back again.
"You stop right where you be. An' don't you never let me hear you say
another word about your bein' a disappointment. Jerry an' Ned, indeed!
I wonder if you think a dozen Jerrys an' Neds could do what you've
done! An' no matter what they done, they couldn't have done a bigger,
splendider thing than you've done in triumphating over your blindness
the way you've done, nor one that would make your father prouder of
you! An' let me tell you another thing, Keith Burton. No matter what
you done--no matter how many big pictures you painted, or big books
you wrote, or how much money you made for your dad; there ain't
anything you could've done that would do him so much solid good as
what you have done."

"Why, Susan, are you wild? I haven't done a thing, not a thing for
dad."

"Yes, you have. You've done the biggest thing of all by NEEDIN' him."

"Needing him!"

"Yes. Keith Burton, look at your father now. Look at the splendid work
he's doin'. You know as well as I do that he used to be a thoroughly
insufficient, uncapacious man (though I wouldn't let anybody else say
it!), putterin' over a mess of pictures that wouldn't sell for a
nickel. An' that he used to run from anything an' everything that was
unpropitious an' disagreeable, like he was bein' chased. Well, then
you was took blind. An' what happened?

"You know what happened. He came right up an' toed the mark like a man
an' a gentleman. An' he's toed it ever since. An' I can tell you that
the pictures he's paintin' now with his tongue for them poor blind
boys to see is bigger an' better than any pictures he could have
painted with--with his pigmy paints if he worked on 'em for a thousand
years. An' it's YOU that's done it for him, jest by needin' him. So
there!"

And before Keith could so much as open his lips, Susan was gone,
slamming the door behind her.




CHAPTER XXXIII

AND ALL ON ACCOUNT OF SUSAN


Not one wink did Susan Betts sleep that night. To Susan her world was
tumbling about her ears in one dizzy whirl of destruction.

Daniel Burton and Dorothy Parkman married and living there, and her
beloved blind boy banished to a home with one David Patch?
Unthinkable! And yet---

Well, if it had got to be, it had got to be, she supposed--the
marriage. But they might at least be decent about it. As for keeping
that poor blind boy harrowed up all the time and prolonging the agony
--well, at least she could do something about THAT, thank goodness! And
she would, too.

When there was anything that Susan could do--particularly in the line
of righting a wrong--she lost no time in doing it. Within two days,
therefore, she made her opportunity, and grasped it. A little
peremptorily she informed Miss Dorothy Parkman that she would like to
speak to her, please, in the kitchen. Then, tall, and cold, and very
stern, she faced her.

"Of course, I understand, Miss Dorothy, I'm bustlin' in where I hain't
no business to. An' I hain't no excuse to offer except my boy, Keith.
It's for him I'm askin' you to do it."

"To do--what, Susan?" She had changed color slightly, as she asked the
question.

"Not let it be seen so plain--the love-makin'."

"Seen! Love-making!" gasped the girl.

"Well, the talkin' to him, then, an' whisperin', an' consultin's, an'
runnin' here every day, an'---"

"I beg your pardon, Susan," interrupted the girl incisively. She had
grown very white. "I am tempted to make no sort of reply to such an
absurd accusation; but I'm going to say, however, that you must be
laboring under some mistake. I do not come here to see Mr. Keith
Burton, and I've scarcely exchanged a dozen words with him for
months."

"I'm talkin' about Mr. Daniel, not Keith, an'---"

"Mr. DANIEL Burton!"

"Of course! Who else?" Susan was nettled now, and showed it. "I don't
s'pose you'll deny runnin' here to see him, an' talkin' to him, an'---
"

"No, no, wait!--wait! Don't say any more, PLEASE!" The girl was half
laughing, half crying, and her face was going from white to red and
back to white again. "Am I to understand that I am actually being
accused of--of running after Mr. Daniel Burton?--of--of love-making
toward HIM?" she choked incoherently.

"Why, y-yes; that is--er---"

"Oh, this is too much, too much! First Keith, and now--" She broke off
hysterically. "To think that--Oh, Susan, how could you, how could
you!" And this time she dropped into a chair and covered her face with
her hands. But she was laughing. Very plainly she was laughing.

Susan frowned, stared, and frowned again.

"Then you ain't in love with--" Suddenly her face cleared, and broke
into a broad smile. "Well, my lan', if that ain't the best joke ever!
Of course, you ain't in love with him! I don't believe I ever more 'n
half believed it, anyway. Now it'll be dead easy, an' all right, too."

"But--but what does it all mean?" stammered the girl.

"Why, it's jest that--that everybody thought you was after him, an't
would be a match--you bein' together so much. But even then I wouldn't
have said a thing if it hadn't been for Keith."

"Keith!"

"Yes--poor boy, he--an' it WAS hard for him, seein' you two together
like this, an' thinkin' you cared for each other. An' he'd got his
plans all made how when you was married he'd go an' live with David
Patch."

"David Patch! But--why?"

"Why, don't you see? 'T wouldn't be very easy to see you married to
another man, would it?--an' lovin' you all the time hisself, an'--"

"LOVING ME!"

"That's what I said." Susan's lips came sharply together and her keen
eyes swept the girl's face.

"But, I--I think you must be mistaken--again," faltered the girl,
growing rosy.

"I ain't. I've always suspicioned it, an' now I know it."

"But, he--he's acted as if he didn't care for me at all--as if he
hated me."

"That's because he cared so much."

"Nonsense, Susan!"

"'T ain't nonsense. It's sense. As I told you, I've always suspicioned
it, an' last Saturday, when I heard him talk, I knew. He as good as
owned it up, anyhow."

"But why didn't he--he tell me?" stammered the girl, growing still
more rosy.

"Because he was blind."

"As if I'd minded---" She stopped abruptly and turned away her face.

Susan drew a resolute breath and squared her shoulders.

"Then why don't you do somethin'?" she demanded.

"Do something?"

"Yes, to--to show him that you don't mind."

"Oh, Susan, I--I couldn't do--that."

"All right. Settle back, then, an' do nothin'; an' he'll settle back
an' do nothin', an' there'll be a pretty pair of you, eatin' your
hearts out with love for each other, an' passin' each other by with
converted faces an' highbrow chins; an' all because you're afraid of
offendin' Mis' Grundy, who don't care no more about you than two
sticks. But I s'pose you'd both rather be miserable than brace up an'
defy the properties an' live long an' be happy ever after."

"But if I could be sure he--cared," spoke the girl, in a faint little
voice.

"You would have been, if you'd seen him Saturday, as I did."

"And if---"

"If--if--i