.  And we'll
wait till after office hours, and then Gerard Godfrey can come and
fish it out for us!  Oh, thank you.  He wants the pattern of the
Abbot's cross for an illumination, and he can get some ferns for the
church.'

Soon after this ebullition, Lady Kirkaldy carried off her nephew, and
his first utterance outside the door was 'A woman like that will be
the salvation of my uncle.'

'Firstly, if you can bring them together,' said his aunt; 'and
secondly, if there is stuff enough in that pretty creature.'





CHAPTER V.
SUSPENSE.




'Where shall the traitor rest
 He, the deceiver?'--SCOTT.


Poor Miss Headworth's peace of mind was utterly destroyed.  That the
niece whom she had nursed back to life and happiness, and brought to
love her as a mother, should be at the mercy of a man whom she looked
on as a heartless profligate, was dreadful to her beyond measure.
And it involved Ursula's young life likewise?  Could it be a duty,
after these eighteen years, to return to him?  What legal rights had
he to enforce the resumption of the wife he had deserted.  'I will
consult Mr. Dutton,' said the old lady to herself; 'Mr. Dutton is the
only person who knows the particulars.  He will give me the best
advice.'

And while Miss Headworth, over her evening toilette, was coming to
this resolution in one bedroom, Nuttie, in another, was standing
aghast at her mother's agitation, and receiving a confession which
filled her with astonishment.

'I can't think why that gentleman should go and be so affectionate
all on a sudden, 'quoth Nuttie;' if he is my cousin, and so fond of
you, why couldn't he have come to see us before?'

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, you don't understand why it is so good of him!  My
dear, now this has come, I must tell you--you must hear--the sad
thing your mother did.  Yes, my dear, I was their governess--and--and
I did not--In short, my dear, I eloped.'

'You, mother!  Oh what fun!' cried the girl in the utter extremity of
wonder.

'Nuttie!' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, in a tone of horror and
indignation--nay, of apprehension.

'O mother--I didn't mean that!  But I can't get to believe it.  You,
little mother mine, you that are so timid and bashful and quiet.
That you--you should have done such a thing.'

'Nuttie, my dear, can't you understand that such a thing would make
me quiet?  I am always feeling when I see people, or they bring their
daughters here.  "If they only knew--"'

'No, no, no!  They would still see you were the sweetest dear.  But
tell me all about it.  How very much in love you must have been!'
said Nuttie, a magnificent vision of a young sailor with curly hair
and open throat rising before her.

'I think I was more frightened than in love,' faintly said Mrs.
Egremont.  'At least I didn't know it was love, I thought he was only
kind to me.'

'But you liked it?' said Ursula magisterially.

'I liked it, oh, I liked it!  It gave me a feeling such as nothing
else ever did, but I never thought of its being love, he was so much
older.'

'Older!' exclaimed Nuttie, much taken aback.  'Oh! as old as Mr.
Dutton?'

'Mr. Dutton is thirty-six, I think.  Yes, he was older than that.'

'Mother, how could you?'  For to be older than Mr: Dutton seemed to
the youthful fancy to be near decrepitude; but she added, 'I suppose
he was very noble, and had done great things.'

'He was the grandest gentleman I ever saw, and had such, a manner,'
said the mother, passing over the latter suggestion.  'Anyway, I
never thought what it all meant--all alone with the children as I
was--till I found people looking at me, and laughing at me, and then
I heard Lady de Lyonnais and Mr. Egremont were coming down, very
angry, to send me away.  I ought, I know it now, to have waited, for
they would have written to my aunt.  But I was horribly frightened,
and I couldn't bear to think of never seeing him again, and he came
and comforted me, and said he would take me to Mrs. Houghton, the
kind lady who was staying in the Ninon, and they would make it all
square for me--and then--oh! it was very sweet--but I never knew that
we were sailing away to Jersey to be married!  I knew it was very
dreadful without any one's leave, but it was so noble of him to take
the poor little governess and defend her, and it wasn't as if my
mother had been alive.  I didn't know Aunt Ursel then as I did
afterwards.  And Mrs. Houghton said there was nothing else to be
done.'

'O don't leave off, mother.  Do tell me.  How long did you have him?'

'Six weeks then--and afterwards one fortnight at Dieppe.  He was not
free.  He had an old uncle, General Egremont, who was sick and hot-
tempered, and he was obliged to keep everything secret from him, and
therefore from everybody else.  And so I was to live at Dieppe, while
he went out to take care of his uncle, and you know--you know--'

'Yes, I know, dear mother.  But I am sure he was saving somebody
else, and it was a noble death!  And I know how Aunt Ursel came to
Dieppe, and how I--your own little Frenchwoman--came to take care of
you.  And haven't we been jolly without any of these fine relations
that never looked after you all this time?  Besides, you know he is
very likely to be on a lonely coral island, and will come home yet.
I often think he is.'

'My dear child, I have been happier than I deserved,' said Alice
Egremont, drying her eyes.  'But oh! Nuttie, I hope you will be a
wiser woman than your mother.'

'Come, don't go on in that way!  Why, I've such advantages!  I've
Miss Mary, and Aunt Ursel, and Mr. Spyers, and Mr. Dutton, and you,
you poor little thing, had nobody!  One good thing is, we shall get
the water-soldier.  Mr. Dutton needn't come, for he's like a cat, and
won't soil his boots, but Gerard is dying to get another look at the
old ruin.  He can't make up his mind about the cross on one of the
stone-coffin lids, so he'll be delighted to come, and he'll get it
out of the pond for us.  I wonder when we can go.  To-night is choir
practice, and to-morrow is cutting-out day.'

Miss Headworth was not sorry that the small sociabilities of the
friends did not leave her alone with her niece all that evening, or
the next day, when there was a grand cutting-out for the working
party,--an operation always performed in the holidays.  Miss
Headworth had of late years been excused from it, and it gave her the
opportunity she wanted of a consultation with Mr. Dutton.  He was her
prime adviser in everything, from her investments (such as they were)
to the eccentricities of her timepieces; and as the cuckoo-clock had
that night cuckooed all the hours round in succession, no one thought
it wonderful that she should send a twisted note entreating him to
call as early as he could in the afternoon.  Of course Nuttie's
chatter had proclaimed the extraordinary visitors, and it needed not
the old lady's dash under "on an anxious affair" to bring him to her
little drawing-room as soon as he could quit his desk.  Perhaps he
hastened his work with a hope in his heart which he durst not
express, but the agitation on the usually placid face forbade him to
entertain it for an instant, and he only said, 'So our expedition has
led to unforeseen consequences, Miss Headworth.'  And then she
answered under her breath, as if afraid of being overheard: 'Mr.
Dutton, my poor child does not know it yet, but the man is alive!'

Mr. Dutton compressed his lips.  It was the greater shock, for he had
actually made inquiries at the Yacht Club, but the officials there
either had not been made aware of the reappearance of the two
Egremonts, or they did not think it worth while to look beyond the
record which declared that all hands had perished, and the connection
of the uncle and nephew with the Yacht Club had not been renewed.
Presently he said, 'Then hers was a right instinct.  There is reason
to be thankful.'

Miss Headworth was too full of her own anxieties to heed his causes
for thankfulness.  She told what she had heard from Lady Kirkaldy and
from Mark Egremont, and asked counsel whether it could be Alice's
duty to return to the man who had deserted her, or even to accept
anything from him.  There was an impetuous and indignant spirit at
the bottom of the old lady's heart, in spite of the subdued life she
had led for so many years, and she hardly brooked the measured
considerate manner in which her adviser declared that all depended on
circumstances, and the manner in which Captain Egremont made the
first move.  At present no one was acting but young Mark, and, as Mr.
Dutton observed, it was not a matter in which a man was very likely
to submit to a nephew's dictation.

There was certainly no need for Mrs. Egremont to _force_ her presence
on him.  But Mr. Dutton did think that for her own sake and her
child's there ought to be full recognition of their rights, and that
this should be proved by their maintenance.

'I imagine that Ursula may probably be a considerable heiress, and
her lights must not be sacrificed.'

'Poor little girl!  Will it be for her happiness?  I doubt it
greatly!'

'Of that I suppose we have no right to judge,' said Mr. Dutton,
somewhat tremulously. 'Justice is what we have to look to, and to
allow Nuttie to be passed over would be permitting a slur to be cast
on her and her mother.'

'I see that,' said Miss Headworth, with an effort.  'I suppose I am
after all a selfish, faithless old woman, and it is not in my hands
after all.  But I must prepare my poor Alice for what may be coming.'

'If any terms are offered to her, she had better put the matter into
a lawyer's hands.  Dobson would be a safe man to deal with.'

Miss Headworth was amazed that he--who had helped her in many a
little question bordering on law--should not proffer his aid now in
this greatest stress.  He was a resolute, self-controlled man, and
she never guessed at the feeling that made him judge himself to be no
fitting champion for Alice Egremont against her husband.  Ever since,
ten years ago, he had learnt that his beautiful neighbour did not
regard herself so certainly a widow as to venture to open her heart
to any other love, he had lived patiently on, content to serve her as
a trustworthy friend, and never betraying the secret hope so long
cherished and now entirely crushed.

He was relieved to escape from the interview, and the poor old lady
remained a little more certain as to her duty perhaps, but with a
certainty that only made her more unhappy, and she was so restless
and nervous that, in the middle of the evening's reading of
Archbishop Trench's Lectures on History, Alice suddenly broke off in
the very middle of a sentence and exclaimed, 'Aunt Ursel! you are
keeping something from me.'

Miss Headworth made a faint attempt by saying something about
presently, and glancing with her eyes to indicate that it was to be
reserved till after Nuttie's bedtime, but the young lady comprehended
the signs and exclaimed, 'Never mind me, Aunt Ursel,--I know all
about mother; she told me last night.'

'It is!' broke in Mrs. Egremont, who had been watching her aunt's
face.  'You have heard of _him_.'

'Oh, my father!  You really have!' cried Nuttie.  'Then he really was
on the desert island all this time; I was quite sure of it.  How
delightful!'  She jumped up and looked at the door, as if she
expected to see him appear that instant, clad in skins like Robinson
Crusoe, but her aunt's nervous agitation found vent in a sharp
reproof: 'Nuttie, hold your tongue, and don't be such a foolish
child, or I shall send you out of the room this instant!'

'But aunt?' gasped Alice, unable to bear the suspense.

'Yes, my poor dear child.  Captain Egremont with the General got off
with some of the crew in a boat when the Ninon was burnt.  He spent a
good many years abroad with the old man, but he has now inherited the
family place, and is living there.'  Miss Headworth felt as if she
had fired a cannon and looked to see the effect.

'Ah, if we could have stayed at Dieppe!' said Mrs. Egremont.  'But we
did write back to say where we could be heard of.'

'That was of no use.  Mark found no traces of us when he went
thither.'

'Did he send Mark?'

'No.  My dear Alice, I must not conceal from you that this is all Mr.
Mark Egremont's doing.  He seems to have been helping his uncle with
his papers when he came on the evidence of your marriage, and,
remembering you as he does, he forced the confession of it from the
captain, and of his own accord set forth to discover what had become
of you and to see justice done to you.'

'Dear little Mark!' said she; 'he always was such an affectionate
little boy.'

'And now, my dear, you must consider how you will receive any
advances on his part.'

'Oh, Aunt Ursel, don't!  I can't talk now.  Please let me go to bed.
Nuttie, dear, you need not come yet.'

The desire for solitude, in which to realise what she had heard, was
overpowering, and she fled away in the summer twilight, leaving
Nuttie with wide open eyes, looking after her vanished hero and
desert island.

'My poor Alice!' sighed the old lady.

'Aunt Ursel!' exclaimed Nuttie, 'was--I mean--is my father a good or
a bad man?'

'My dear, should a daughter ask such a question?'

'Aunt Ursel, I can't help it.  I think I ought to know all about it,'
said Nuttie gravely, putting away her childishness and sitting down
by her aunt.  'I did not think so much of it when mother told me they
eloped, because, though I know it was very wrong, people do do odd
things sometimes when they are very much in love (she said it in a
superior patronising tone that would have amused Miss Headworth very
much at any other time); and it has not spoilt mother for being the
dearest, sweetest, best thing in the world, and, besides, they had
neither of them any fathers or mothers to disobey.  But, then, when I
found he was so old, and that he kept it a secret, and must have told
stories only for the sake of money (uttered with extreme contempt), I
didn't like it.  And if he left her as Theseus left Ariadne, or Sir
Lancelot left Elaine, I--I don't think it is nice.  Do you think he
only pretended to be lost in the Ninon to get rid of her, or that he
could not find her?'

'The Ninon was really reported lost with all on board,' said Miss
Headworth.  'That was ascertained.  He was saved by a Chilian ship,
and seems to have been a good while making his way back to Europe.  I
had taken care that our address should be known at Dieppe, but it is
quite possible that he may not have applied to the right people, or
that they may not have preserved my letter, so that we cannot feel
sore that he was to blame.'

'If he had been worth anything at all, he would have moved heaven and
earth to find her!' cried Nuttie; 'and you said yourself it was all
_that_ Mark's doing!'

'He seems to be a very upright and generous young man, that Mr. Mark
Egremont,' said Miss Headworth, a whole romance as to Nuttie's future
destiny sweeping across her mind in an instant, with a mental
dispensation to first cousins in such a case.  'I think you will find
him a staunch champion even against his own interests.'

Perceptions came across Nuttie.  'Oh, then I am a sort of lost
heiress, like people in a story!  I see!  But, Aunt Ursel, what do
you think will happen?'

'My dear child, I cannot guess in the least.  Perhaps the Egremont
property will not concern you, and only go to male heirs.  That would
be the best thing, since in any case you must be sufficiently
provided for.  Your father must do that.'

'But about mother?'

'A proper provision must be insisted on for her,' said Miss
Headworth.  'It is no use, however, to speculate on the future.  We
cannot guess how Mr. Mark Egremont's communication will be received,
or whether any wish will be expressed for your mother's rejoining
your father.  In such a case the terms must be distinctly understood,
and I have full trust both in Mr. Mark and in Lady Kirkaldy as her
champions to see that justice is done to you both.'

'I'm sure he doesn't deserve that mother should go to him.'

'Nor do I expect that he will wish it, or that it would be proper;
but he is bound to give her a handsome maintenance, and I think most
probably you will be asked to stay with your uncle and cousins,' said
Miss Headworth, figuring to herself a kind of Newstead Abbey or some
such scene of constant orgies at Bridgefield Egremont.

'I shall accept nothing from the family that does not include
mother,' said Nuttie.

'Dear child, I foresee many trials, but you must be her protector.'

'That I will,' said Nuttie; and in the gallant purpose she went to
bed, to find her mother either asleep or feigning slumber with tears
on her cheek.





CHAPTER VI.
THE WATER-SOLDIER.




'Presumptuous maid, with looks intent,
 Again she stretched, again she bent,
 Nor knew the gulf between.'--GRAY.


It all seemed like a dream to Ursula, perhaps likewise to her mother,
when they rose to the routine of daily life with the ordinary
interests of the day before them.  There was a latent unwillingness
in Mrs. Egremont's mind to discuss the subject with either aunt or
daughter; and when the post brought no letter, Ursula, after a
moment's sense of flatness, was relieved, and returned to her eager
desire to hurry after the water-soldier.  It was feasible that very
afternoon.  Mary Nugent came in with the intelligence.

'And can Gerard come? or we shall only look at it.'

'Yes, Gerard can come, and so will Mr. Dutton,' said Mary, who,
standing about half-way between Mrs. Egremont and her daughter, did
not think herself quite a sufficient chaperon.

'He will look on like a hen at her ducklings,' said Nuttie.  'It is
cruel to take him, poor man!'

'Meantime, Nuttie, do you like an hour of "Marie Stuart?"'

'Oh, thank you!'  But she whispered, 'Aunt Ursel, may I tell her?'

'Ask your mother, my dear.'

Leave was given, half reluctantly, and with a prohibition against
mentioning the subject to any one else, but both mother and aunt had
confidence in Mary Nugent's wisdom and discretion, so the two friends
sat on the wall together, and Ursula poured out her heart.  Poor
little girl! she was greatly discomfited at the vanishing of her
noble vision of the heroic self-devoted father, and ready on the
other hand to believe him a villain, like Bertram Risingham, or 'the
Pirate,' being possessed by this idea on account of his West Indian
voyages.  At any rate, she was determined not to be accepted or
acknowledged without her mother, and was already rehearsing
magnanimous letters of refusal.

Miss Mary listened and wondered, feeling sometimes as if this were as
much a romance as the little yacht going down with the burning ship;
and then came back the recollection that there was a real fact that
Nuttie had a father, and that it was entirely uncertain what part he
might take, or what the girl might be called on to do.  Considering
anxiously these bearings of the question, she scarcely heard what she
was required to assent to, in one of Nuttie's eager, 'Don't you think
so?'

'My dear Nuttie,' she said, rousing herself, 'what I do think is that
it will all probably turn out exactly contrariwise to our
imaginations, so I believe it would be wisest to build up as few
fancies as possible, but only to pray that you may have a right
judgment in all things, and have strength to do what is right,
whatever you may see that to be.'

'And of course that will be to stick by mother.'

'There can be little doubt of that, but the how?  No, dear, do not
let us devise all sorts of _hows_ when we have nothing to go upon.
That would be of no use, and only perplex you when the time comes.
It would be much better to "do the nexte thinge," and read our "Marie
Stuart."'

Nuttie pouted a little, but submitted, though she now and then broke
into a translation with 'You know mother will never stand up for
herself,' or 'They think I shall be asked to stay with the Egremonts,
but I must work up for the exam.'

However, the school habit of concentrating her attention prevailed,
and the study quieted Nuttie's excitement.  The expedition took place
as arranged.  There was a train which stopped so that the party could
go down by it, and the distance was not too great for walking back.

Mr. Dutton met them on the platform, well armed with his neat silk
umbrella, and his black poodle, Monsieur, trotting solemnly after
him.  Gerard Godfrey bore materials for an exact transcript of the
Abbot's monumental cross, his head being full of church architecture,
while Nuttie carried a long green tin case, or vasculum as she chose
to call it, with her three vowels, U A E, and the stars of the Little
Bear conspicuously painted on it in white.

'You did not venture on that the other day,' said Mr. Dutton.  'How
much of the park do you mean to carry away in it?'

'Let me take it,' said Gerard politely.

'No, thank you.  You'd leave it behind, while you were pottering over
the mouldings.'

'You are much more likely to leave it behind yourself.'

'What--with my soldier, my Stratiotes, in it?  I think I see myself.'

'Give it to me,' said Gerard.  'Of course I can't see you carrying a
great thing like that.'

'Can't you, indeed?'

'Gently, gently, my dear,' said Miss Mary, as the young people seemed
very near a skirmish, and the train was sweeping up.  Then there was
another small scuffle, for Nuttie had set her heart on the third
class; but Mr. Dutton had taken second-class tickets, and was about
to hand them into a carriage whence there had just emerged a very
supercilious black-moustached valet, who was pulling out a leather-
covered dressing-case, while Gerard was consoling Nuttie by telling
her that Monsieur never deigned to go third class.

'It is a smoking carriage,' said Miss Nugent, on the step.  'Pah! how
it smells,' as she jumped back.

'Beautiful backy--a perfect nosegay,' said Gerard.

'Trust that fellow for having the best.'

'His master's, no doubt,' suggested Mr. Dutton.

'You'd better go in it, to enjoy his reversion,' said Nuttie.

'And where's my escort, then?'

'Oh, I'm sure we don't want you.'

'Nuttie, my dear,' expostulated Miss Nugent, dragging her into the
next carriage.

'You may enjoy the fragrance still,' said Nuttie when seated.  'Do
you see--there's the man's master; he has stood him up against that
post, with his cigar, to wait while he gets out the luggage.  I
daresay you can get a whiff if you lean out far enough.'

'I say! that figure is a study!' said Gerard.  'What is it that he is
so like?'

'Oh! I know,' said Nuttie.  'It is Lord Frederick Verisopht, and the
bad gentlefolks in the pictures to the old numbers of Dickens that
you have got, Miss Mary.  Now, isn't he?  Look! only Lord Frederick
wasn't fat.'

Nuttie was in a state of excitement that made her peculiarly
unmanageable, and Miss Nugent was very grateful to Mr. Dutton for his
sharp though general admonition against staring, while, under pretext
of disposing of the umbrella and the vasculum, he stood up, so as to
block the window till they were starting.

There was no one else to observe them but a demure old lady, and in
ten minutes' time they were in open space, where high spirits might
work themselves off, though the battle over the botanical case was
ended by Miss Nugent, who strongly held that ladies should carry
their own extra encumbrances, and slung it with a scarf over Nuttie's
shoulders in a knowing knapsack fashion.

The two young people had known one another all their lives, for
Gerard was the son of a medical man who had lived next door to Miss
Headworth when the children were young.  The father was dead, and the
family had left the place, but this son had remained at school, and
afterwards had been put into the office at the umbrella factory under
charge of Mr. Dutton, whose godson he was, and who treated him as a
nephew.  He was a good-hearted, steady young fellow, with his whole
interest in ecclesiastical details, wearing a tie in accordance with
'the colours,' and absorbed in church music and decorations, while
his recreations were almost all in accordance therewith.

There was plenty of merriment, as he drew and measured at the very
scanty ruins, which were little more than a few fragments of wall,
overgrown luxuriantly with ivy and clematis, but enclosing some fine
old coffin-lids with floriated crosses, interesting to those who
cared for architecture and church history, as Mr. Dutton tried to
make the children do, so that their ecclesiastical feelings might be
less narrow, and stand on a surer foundation than present interest, a
slightly aggressive feeling of contempt for all the other town
churches, and a pleasing sense of being persecuted.

They fought over the floriations and mouldings with great zest, and
each maintained a date with youthful vigour--both being, as Mr.
Dutton by and by showed them, long before the foundation.  The pond
had been left to the last with a view to the wellbeing of the water-
soldier on the return.  Here the difficulties of the capture were
great, for the nearest plant flourished too far from the bank to be
reached with comfort, and besides, the sharp-pointed leaves to which
it owes its name were not to be approached with casual grasps.

'Oh Monsieur, I wish you were a Beau,' sighed Nuttie.  'Why, are you
too stupid to go and get it?'

'It is a proof of his superior intelligence,' said Mr. Dutton.

'But really it is too ridiculous--too provoking--to have come all
this way and not get it,' cried the tantalised Nuttie.  'Oh, Gerard,
are you taking off your boots and stockings?  You duck!'

'Just what I wish I was,' said the youth, rolling up his trousers.

But even the paddling in did not answer.  Mr. Dutton called out
anxiously, 'Take care, Gerard, the bottom may be soft,' and came down
to the very verge just in time to hold out his hand, and prevent an
utterly disastrous fall, for Gerard, in spite of his bare feet, sank
at once into mud, and on the first attempt to take a step forward,
found his foot slipping away from under him, and would in another
instant have tumbled backwards into the slush and weeds.  He
scrambled back, his hat falling off into the reeds, and splashing Mr.
Dutton all over, while Monsieur began to bark 'with astonishment at
seeing his master in such a plight,' declared the ladies, who stood
convulsed with cruel laughter.

'Isn't it dreadful?' exclaimed Ursula.

'Well!  It might have been worse,' gravely said Mr. Dutton, wiping
off the more obnoxious of his splashes with his pocket handkerchief.

'Oh I didn't mean you, but the water-soldier,' said Nuttie.  'To have
come five miles for it in vain!'

'I don't know what to suggest,' added Gerard.  'Even if the ladies
were to retire--'

'No, no,' interposed Mr. Dutton, ''tis no swimming ground, and I
forbid the expedient.  You would only be entangled in the weeds.'

'Behold!' exclaimed Mary, who had been prowling about the banks, and
now held up in triumph one of the poles with a bill-hook at the end
used for cutting weed.

'Bravo, Miss Nugent!' cried Gerard.

'Female wit has circumvented the water-soldier,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Don't cry out too soon,' returned Mary; 'the soldier may float off
and escape you yet.'

However, the capture was safely accomplished, without even a dip
under water to destroy the beauty of the white flowers.  With these,
and a few waterlilies secured by Gerard for the morrow's altar vases,
the party set out on their homeward walk, through plantations of
whispering firs, the low sun tingeing the trunks with ruddy light;
across heathery commons, where crimson heath abounded, and the
delicate blush-coloured wax-belled species was a prize; by cornfields
in ear hanging out their dainty stamens; along hedges full of
exquisite plumes of feathering or nodding grass, of which Nuttie made
bouquets and botanical studies, and Gerard stored for harvest
decorations.  They ran and danced on together with Monsieur at their
heels, while the elders watched them with some sadness and anxiety.
Free-masonry had soon made both Mary and Mr. Dutton aware of each
other's initiation, and they had discussed the matter in all its
bearings, agreed that the man was a scoundrel, and the woman an
angel, even if she had once been weak, and that she ought to be very
resolute with him if he came to terms.  And then they looked after
their young companions, and Mr. Dutton said, 'Poor children, what is
before them?'

'It is well they are both so young,' answered Mary.





CHAPTER VII.
THAT MAN.




'It is the last time--'tis the last!'--SCOTT.


Sundays were the ever-recurring centres of work and interests to the
little circle in St. Ambrose's Road.  To them the church services and
the various classes and schools were the great objects and
excitements of the week.  A certain measure of hopeful effort and
varying success is what gives zest to life, and the purer and higher
the aim, and the more unmixed the motives, the greater the happiness
achieved by the 'something attempted, something done.'

Setting apart actual spiritual devotion, the altar vases, purchased
by a contribution of careful savings, and adorned with the Monks
Horton lilies, backed by ferns from the same quarter; the surplices
made by the ladies themselves, the chants they had practised, the
hymns they had taught, could not but be much more interesting to them
than if they had been mere lookers on.  Every cross on the markers,
every flower on the altar cloth was the work of one or other of them;
everything in the church was an achievement, and choir boys, school
children, Bible classes, every member of the regular congregation,
had some special interest; nay, every irregular member or visitor
might be a convert in time--if not a present sympathiser, and at the
very least might swell the offertory that was destined to so many
needs of the struggling district.

Thus it was with some curiosity mingled with self-reproach that
Nuttie, while singing her Benedictus among the tuneful shop-girls, to
whom she was bound to set an example, became aware of yesterday's
first-class traveller lounging, as far as the rows of chairs would
permit, in the aisle, and, as she thought, staring hard at her
mother.  It was well that Mrs. Egremont's invariable custom was never
to lift her eyes from her book or her harmonium, or she surely must
have been disconcerted, her daughter thought, by the eyes that must
have found her out, under her little black net bonnet and veil, as
the most beautiful woman in church,--as she certainly was,--even that
fine good-for-nothing gentleman thinking so.  Nuttie would add his
glances to the glories of her lovely mother!

And she did so, with triumph in her tone of reprobation, as she
trotted off, after the early dinner, to her share of Sunday-school
work as usual under Miss Nugent's wing.  It began with a children's
service, and then ensued, in rooms at the factory, lent by Mr.
Dutton, the teaching that was to supply the omissions of the Board
School; the establishment of a voluntary one being the next ambition
of St. Ambrose's.

Coming home from their labours, in the fervent discussion of their
scholars, and exchanging remarks and greetings with the other
teachers of various calibres, the friends reached their own road, and
there, to their amazement, beheld Miss Headworth.

'Yes, it really is!' cried Nuttie.  'We can't be too late?  No--
there's no bell!  Aunt Ursel!  What has brought you out?  What's the
matter?  Where's mother?'

'In the house.  My dear,' catching hold of her, and speaking
breathlessly, 'I came out to prepare you.  He is come--your father--'

'Where?' cried Nuttie, rather wildly.

'He is in the drawing-room with your mother.  I said I would send
you.'  Poor Miss Headworth gasped with agitation.  'Oh! where's Mr.
Dutton--not that anything can be done--'

'Is it _that man_?' asked Nuttie, and getting no answer, 'I know it
is!  Oh Aunt Ursel, how could you leave her with him?  I must go and
protect her.  Gerard--come.  No, go and fetch Mr. Dutton.'

'Hush! hush, Nuttie,' cried her aunt, grasping her.  'You know
nothing about it.  Wait here till I can tell you.'

'Come in here, dear Miss Headworth,' said Mary, gently drawing her
arm into hers, for the poor old lady could hardly stand for
trembling, and bidding Gerard open the door of her own house with the
latch-key.

She took them into the dining-room, so as not to disturb her mother,
sent Gerard off after Mr. Dutton in the very uttermost astonishment
and bewilderment, and set Miss Headworth down in an easy-chair, where
she recovered herself, under Mary's soothing care, enough to tell her
story in spite of Nuttie's exclamations.  'Wait! wait, Nuttie!  You
mustn't burst in on them so!  No, you need not be afraid.  Don't be a
silly child!  He won't hurt her!  Oh no!  They are quite delighted to
meet.'

'Delighted to meet?' said Nuttie, as if transfixed.

'Yes,' said her aunt.  'Oh yes, I always knew the poor child cared
for him and tried to believe in him all along.  He only had to say
the word.'

'I wouldn't,' cried the girl, her eyes flashing.  'Why didn't you ask
him how he could desert her and leave her?'

'My dear! how can one come between husband and wife?  Oh, my poor
Alice!'

'How was it, how did they meet, dear Miss Headworth?' asked Mary,
administering the wine she had been pouring out.

'You hadn't been gone half an hour, Alice was reading to me, and I
was just dozing, when in came Louisa.  "A gentleman to see Mrs.
Egremont," she said, and there he was just behind.  We rose up--she
did not know him at once, but he just said "Edda, my little Edda,
sweeter than ever, I knew you at once," or something of that sort,
and she gave one little cry of "I knew you would come," and sprang
right into his arms.  I--well, I meant to make him understand how he
had treated her, but just as I began "Sir"--he came at me with his
hand outstretched--'

'You didn't take it, aunt, I hope?' cried Nuttie.

'My dear, when you see him, you will know how impossible it is.  He
_has_ that high-bred manner it is as if he were conferring a favour.
"Miss Headworth, I conclude," said he, "a lady to whom I owe more
than I can express."  Just as if I had done it for his sake.'  Miss
Nugent felt this open expression dangerous on account of the
daughter, and she looked her consternation at Mr. Dutton, who had
quietly entered, ruthlessly shutting Gerard Godfrey out with only
such a word of explanation as could be given on the way.

'Then he comes with--with favourable intentions,' said Mary, putting
as much admonition as she could into her voice.

'Oh! no doubt of that,' said Miss Headworth, drawing herself
together.  'He spoke of the long separation,--said he had never been
able to find her, till the strange chance of his nephew stumbling on
her at Abbots Norton.'

'That is--possib--probably true,' said Mr. Dutton.

'It can't be,' broke in Nuttie.  'He never troubled himself about it
till his nephew found the papers.  You said so, Aunt Ursel!  He is a
dreadful traitor of a man, just like Marmion, or Theseus, or
Lancelot, and now he is telling lies about it!  Don't look at me.
Aunt Ursel, they are lies, and I _will_ say it, and he took in poor
dear mother once, and now he is taking her in again, and I can't bear
that he should be my father!'

It was so entirely true, yet so shocking to hear from her mouth, that
all three stood aghast, as she stood with heaving chest, crimson
cheeks, and big tears in her eyes.  Miss Headworth only muttered,
'Oh, my poor child, you mustn't!'

Mr. Dutton prevented another passionate outburst by his tone of
grave, gentle authority.  'Listen a moment, Ursula,' he said.  'It is
unhappily true that this man has acted in an unjustifiable way
towards your mother and yourself.  But there are, no doubt, many more
excuses for him than you know of, and as I found a few years ago that
the people at Dieppe had lost the address that had been left with
them, he must have found no traces of your mother there.  You cannot
understand the difficulties that may have been in his way.  And there
is no use, quite the contrary, in making the worst of him.  He has
found your mother out, and it seems that he claims her
affectionately, and she forgives and welcomes him--out of the sweet
tenderness of her heart.'

'She may--but I can't,' murmured Nuttie.

'That is not a fit thing for a daughter, nor a Christian, to say,'
Mr. Dutton sternly said.

''Tis not for myself--'tis for her,--'objected Nuttie.

'That's nonsense; a mere excuse,' he returned.  'You have nothing at
all to forgive, since he did not know you were in existence.  And as
to your mother, whom you say you put first, what greater grief or
pain can you give her than by showing enmity and resentment against
her husband, when she, the really injured person, loves and
forgives?'

'He's a bad man.  If she goes back to him, I know he will make her
unhappy--'

'You don't know any such thing, but you do know that your opposition
will make her unhappy.  Remember, there's no choice in the matter.
He has legal rights over you both, and since he shows himself ready
(as I understand from Miss Headworth that he is) to give her and you
your proper position, you have nothing to do but to be thankful.  I
think myself that it is a great subject of thankfulness that your
mother can return so freely without any bitterness.  It is the
blessing of such as she--'

Nuttie stood pouting, but more thoughtful and less violent, as she
said, 'How can I be thankful?  I don't want position or anything.  I
only want him to let my--my own mother, and aunt, and me alone.'

'Child, you are talking of what you do not understand.  You must not
waste any more time in argument.  Your mother has sent for you, and
it is your duty to go and let her introduce you to your father.  I
have little doubt that you will find him very unlike all your
imagination represents him, but let that be as it may, the fifth
Commandment does not say, "Honour only thy good father," but, "Honour
thy father."  Come now, put on your gloves--get her hat right, if you
please, Miss Mary.  There--now, come along, be a reasonable creature,
and a good girl, and do not give unnecessary pain and vexation to
your mother.'  He gave her his arm, and led her away.

'Well done, Mr. Dutton!' exclaimed Miss Nugent.

'Poor Mr. Dutton!'  All Aunt Ursel's discretion could not suppress
that sigh, but Mary prudently let it pass unnoticed, only honouring
in her heart the unselfishness and self-restraint of the man whose
long, patient, unspoken hopes had just received a death-blow.

'Oh, Mary!  I never thought it would have been like this!' cried the
poor old lady.  'I ought not to have spoken as I did before the
child, but I was so taken by surprise!  Alice turned to him just as
if he had been the most faithful, loving husband in the world.  She
is believing every word he says.'

'It is very happy for her that she can,' pleaded Mary.

'So it is, yes, but--when one knows what he is, and what she is!  Oh,
Mr. Dutton, is the poor child gone in?'

'Yes, I saw her safe into the room.  She was very near running off up
the stairs,' said Mr. Dutton.  'But I daresay she is fascinated by
this time.  That sort of man has great power over women.'

'Nuttie is hardly a woman yet,' said Miss Nugent.

'No, but there must be a strong reaction, when she sees something
unlike her compound of Marmion and Theseus.'

'I suppose there is no question but that they must go with him!' said
Miss Headworth wistfully.

'Assuredly.  You say he--this Egremont--was affectionate,' said Mr.
Dutton quietly, but Mary saw his fingers white with his tight
clenching of the bar of the chair.

'Oh yes, warmly affectionate, delighted to find her prettier than
ever, poor dear; I suppose he meant it.  Heaven forgive me, if I am
judging him too hardly, but I verily believe he went to church to
reconnoitre, and see whether she pleased his fancy--'

'And do you understand,' added Mr. Dutton, 'that he is prepared to do
her full justice, and introduce her to his family and friends as his
wife, on equal terms?  Otherwise, even if she were unwilling to stand
up for herself, it would be the duty of her friends to make some
stipulations.'

'I am pretty sure that he does,' said the aunt; 'I did not stay long
when I saw that I was not wanted, but I heard him say something about
his having a home for her now, and her cutting out the Redcastle
ladies.'

'Besides, there is the nephew, Mr. Mark Egremont,' said Mary.  'He
will take care of her.'

'Yes,' said Mr. Dutton.  'It appears to be all right.  At any rate,
there can be no grounds for interference on our part.'

Mr. Dutton took his leave with these words, wringing Miss Headworth's
hand in mute sympathy, and she, poor old lady, when he was gone,
fairly collapsed into bitter weeping over the uncertain future of
those whom she had loved as her own children, and who now must leave
her desolate.  Mary did her best with comfort and sympathy, and
presently took her to share her griefs and fears with gentle old Mrs.
Nugent.





CHAPTER VIII.
THE FATHER.




'I do think this lady
 To be my child.'-King Lear.


Nuttie, in her fresh holland Sunday dress, worked in crewels with
wild strawberries by her mother's hands, and with a white-trimmed
straw hat, was almost shoved into the little drawing-room by Mr.
Dutton, though he was himself invisible.

Her eyes were in such a daze of tears that she hardly saw more at
first than that some one was there with her mother on the sofa.  'Ah,
there she is!' she heard her mother cry, and both rose.  Her mother's
arm was round her waist, her hand was put into another, Mrs.
Egremont's voice, tremulous with exceeding delight, said, 'Our child,
our Ursula, our Nuttie!  Oh, this is what I have longed for all these
years!  Oh, thanks, thanks!' and her hands left her daughter to be
clasped and uplifted for a moment in fervent thanksgiving, while
Nuttie's hand was held, and a strange hairy kiss, redolent of
tobacco-smoking, was on her forehead--a masculine one, such as she
had never known, except her cousin Mark's, since the old rector died,
and she had grown too big for Mr. Dutton's embraces.  It was more
strange than delightful, and yet she felt the polish of the tone that
said, 'We make acquaintance somewhat late, Ursula, but better late
than never.'

She looked up at this new father, and understood instantly what she
had heard of his being a grand gentleman.  There was a high-bred look
about him, an entire ease and perfect manner that made everything he
did or said seem like gracious condescension, and took away the power
of questioning it at the moment.  He was not above the middle size,
and was becoming unwieldy; but there was something imposing and even
graceful in his deportment, and his bald narrow forehead looked
aristocratic, set off between side tufts of white hair, white
whiskers, and moustaches waxed into sharp points, Victor Emmanuel
fashion, and a round white curly beard.  His eyes were dark, and
looked dull, with yellow unwholesome corners, and his skin was not of
a pleasant colour, but still, with all Nuttie's intentions of
regarding him with horror, she was subdued, partly by the grand
breeding and air of distinction, and partly by the current of
sympathy from her mother's look of perfect happiness and exultation.
She could not help feeling it a favour, almost an undeserved favour,
that so great a personage should say, 'A complete Egremont, I see.
She has altogether the family face.'

'I am so glad you think so,' returned her mother.

'On the whole it is well, but she might have done better to resemble
you, Edda,' he said caressingly; 'but perhaps that would have been
too much for the Earlsforth natives.  William's girls will have
enough to endure without a double eclipse!' and he laughed.

'I--I don't want--' faltered the mother.

'You don't want, no, but you can't help it,' he said, evidently with
a proud delight in her beauty.  'Now that I have seen the child,' he
added, 'I will make my way back to the hotel.'

'Will you--won't you stay to tea or dinner?' said his wife, beginning
with an imploring tone which hesitated as she reviewed possible chops
and her aunt's dismay.

'Thank you, I have ordered dinner at the hotel,' he answered, 'and
Gregorio is waiting for me with a cab.  No doubt you will wish to
make arrangements with Madame--the old lady--and I will not trouble
her further to-night.  I will send down Gregorio to-morrow morning,
to tell you what I arrange.  An afternoon train, probably, as we
shall go no farther than London.  You say Lady Kirkaldy called on
you.  We might return her visit before starting, but I will let you
know when I have looked at the trains.  My compliments to Miss
Headworth.  Good evening, sweetest.'  He held his wife in a fond
embrace, kissing her brow and cheeks and letting her cling to him,
then added, 'Good evening, little one,' with a good-natured careless
gesture with which Nuttie was quite content, for she had a certain
loathing of the caresses that so charmed her mother.  And yet the
command to make ready had been given with such easy authority that
the idea of resisting it had never even entered her mind, though she
stood still while her mother went out to the door with him and
watched him to the last.

Coming back, she threw her arms round her daughter, kissed her again
and again, and, with showers of the glad tears long repressed, cried,
'Oh, my Nuttie, my child, what joy!  How shall I be thankful enough!
Your father, your dear father!  Now it is all right.'  Little
sentences of ecstasy such as these, interspersed with caresses, all
in the incoherence of overpowering delight, full of an absolute faith
that the lost husband had loved her and been pining for her all these
years, but that he had been unable to trace her, and was as happy as
she was in the reunion.

The girl was somewhat bewildered, but she was carried along by this
flood of exceeding joy and gladness.  The Marmion and Theseus images
had been dispelled by the reality, and, with Mr. Dutton's sharp
reproof fresh upon her, she felt herself to have been doing a great
injustice to her father; believed all that her mother did, and found
herself the object of a romantic recognition--if not the beggar girl
become a princess, at any rate, the little school-teacher a county
lady!  And she had never seen her mother so wildly, overpoweringly
happy with joy.  That made her, too, feel that something grand and
glorious had happened.

'What are we going to do?' she asked, as the vehemence of Mrs.
Egremont's emotion began to work itself off.

'Home!  He takes us to his home!  _His_ home!' repeated her mother,
in a trance of joy, as the yearnings of her widowed heart now were
fulfilled.

'Oh, but Aunt Ursel!'

'Poor Aunt Ursel!  Oh, Nuttie, Nuttie, I had almost forgotten!  How
could I?' and there was a shower of tears of compunction.  'But he
said he owed everything to her!  She will come with us!  Or if she
doesn't live with us, we will make her live close by in a dear little
cottage.  Where is she?  When did she go?  I never saw her go.'

The sound of the front door was heard, for the visitor had been
watched away and Miss Headworth was returning to her own house to be
there received with another fervent gush of happiness, much more
trying to her, poor thing, than to Nuttie.

There was evensong imminent, and the most needful act at the moment
was to compose the harmonium-player sufficiently for her to take her
part.  Miss Headworth was really glad of the necessity, since it put
off the discussion, and made a reason for silencing Nuttie until all
should be more recovered from the first agitation.  Alice Egremont
herself was glad to carry her gratitude and thankfulness to the
Throne of Grace, and in her voluntary, and all her psalms, there was
an exulting strain that no one had thought the instrument capable of
producing, and that went to the heart of more than one of her
hearers.  No one who knew her could doubt that hers was simply
innocent exultation in the recovery of him whom she so entirely loved
and confided in.  But there could not but be terrible doubts whether
he were worthy of that trust, and what the new page in her life would
be.

Miss Headworth had said they would not talk till after church, but
there was no deferring the matter then.  She was prepared, however,
when her niece came up to her in a tender deprecating manner, saying,
'Aunt Ursel, dear Aunt Ursel, it does seem very ungrateful, but--'

'He is going to take you away?  Yes, I saw that.  And it ought to be,
my dear.  You know where?'

'Yes; to London first, to be fitted out, and then to his own home.
To Bridgefield Egremont.  I shall have to see Mr. Egremont,' and her
voice sank with shame.  'But Mark will be good to me, and why should
I care when I have him.'

'It is quite right. I am glad it should be so,' firmly said the old
lady.

'And yet to leave you so suddenly.'

'That can't be helped.'

'And it will only be for a little while,' she added, 'till you can
make arrangements to come to us.  My dear husband says he owes you
everything.  So you must be with us, or close to us.'

'My dear, it's very dear and good of you to think of it, but I must
be independent.'  She put it in those words, unwilling again to speak
unguardedly before Nuttie.

'Oh, dear auntie, indeed you must!  Think what you are to us, and
what you have done for us.  We can't go away to be happy and
prosperous and leave you behind.  Can we, Nuttie?  Come and help me
to get her to promise.  Do--do dearest auntie,' and she began the
coaxing and caressing natural to her, but Nuttie did not join in it,
and Miss Headworth shook her head and said gravely--

'Don't, Alice.  It is of no use.  I tell you once for all that my
mind is made up.'

Alice, knowing by long experience that, when her aunt spoke in that
tone, persuasion was useless, desisted, but looked at her in
consternation, with eyes swimming in tears.  Nuttie understood her a
little better, and felt the prickings of distrust again.

'But, aunt, dear aunt, how can we leave you?  What will you do with
all the boarders,' went on Mrs. Egremont.

'I shall see my way, my dear.  Do not think about that.  It is a
great thing to see you and this child receive justice.'

'And only think, after all the hard things that have been said of
him, that we should meet first at church!  He would not wait and send
letters and messages by Mark.  You see he came down himself the first
moment.  I always knew he would.  Only I am so sorry for him, that he
should have lost all those sweet years when Nuttie was a tiny child.
She must do all she can to make up to him.'

'Oh dear!' broke out Nuttie.  'It is so strange!  It will be all so
strange!'

'It will be a very new life,' said her aunt, rather didactically;
'but you must do your best to be a good daughter, and to fill your
new position, and I have no doubt you will enjoy it.'

'If I could but take all with me!' said Nuttie.  'Oh dear! whatever
will you do, Aunt Ursel?  Oh mother, the choir!  Who will play the
harmonium? and who will lead the girls? and whatever will Mr. Spyers
do? and who will take my class?  Mother, couldn't we stay a little
longer to set things going here?'

'It is nice of you to have thought of it, my dear,' said Mrs.
Egremont, 'but your father would not like to stay on here.'

'But mightn't I stay, just a few days, mother, to wish everybody
good-bye?  Mr. Dutton, and Miss Mary, and Gerard, and all the girls?'

There was some consolation in this plan, and the three women rested
on it that night, Mrs. Egremont recovering composure enough to write
three or four needful notes, explaining her sudden departure.  The
aunt could not talk of a future she so much dreaded for her nieces,
losing in it the thought of her own loneliness; Alice kept back her
own loving, tender, undoubting joy with a curious sense that it was
hard and ungrateful towards the aunt; but it was impossible to think
of that, and Nuttie was in many moods.

Eager anticipation of the new unseen world beyond, exultation in
finding herself somebody, sympathy with her mother's happiness, all
had their share, but they made her all the wilder, because they were
far from unmixed.  The instinctive dislike of Mr. Egremont's
countenance, and doubt of his plausible story, which had vanished
before his presence, and her mother's faith, returned upon her from
time to time, caught perhaps from her aunt's tone and looks.  Then
her aunt had been like a mother to her--her own mother much more like
a sister, and the quitting her was a wrench not compensated for as in
Mrs. Egremont's case by a more absorbing affection.  Moreover, Nuttie
felt sure that poor Gerard Godfrey would break his heart.  As the
mother and daughter for the last time lay down together in the room
that had been theirs through the seventeen years of the girl's life,
Alice fell asleep with a look of exquisite peace and content on her
face, feeling her long term of trial crowned by unlooked-for joy,
while Ursula, though respecting her slumbers too much to move, lay
with wide-open eyes, now speculating on the strange future, now
grieving over those she left--Aunt Ursel, Gerard, Mary, and all such;
the schemes from which she was snatched, and then again consoling
herself with the hope that, since she was going to be rich, she could
at once give all that was wanted--the white altar cloth, the brass
pitcher--nay, perhaps finish the church and build the school!  For
had not some one said something about her position?  Oh yes, she had
not thought of it before, but, since she was the elder brother's
daughter, she must be the heiress!  There was no doubt a grand
beautiful story before her; she would withstand all sorts of
fascinations, wicked baronets and earls innumerable, and come back
and take Gerard by the hand, and say, 'Pride was quelled and love was
free.'  Not that Gerard had ever uttered a word tending in that
direction since he had been seven years old, but that would make it
all the prettier; they would both be silently constant, till the time
came, perhaps when she was of age.  Mother would like it, though
_that_ father would certainly be horrid.  And how nice it would be to
give Gerard everything, and they would go all over the Continent, and
see pictures, and buy them, and see all the cathedrals and all the
mountains.  But perhaps, since Mark Egremont had really been so
generous in hunting up the cousin who was displacing him, she was
bound in duty to marry him; perhaps he reckoned on her doing so.  She
would be generous in her turn, give up all the wealth to him, and
return to do and be everything to Micklethwayte.  How they would
admire and bless her.  And oh! she was going to London to-morrow--
London, which she so much wished to see--Westminster Abbey, British
Museum, All Saints, National Gallery, no end of new dresses.

Half-waking, half-dreaming, she spent the night which seemed long
enough, and the light hours of the summer morning seemed still
longer, before she could call it a reasonable time for getting up.
Her splashings  awoke her mother, who lay smiling for a few moments,
realising and giving thanks for her great joy, then bestirred herself
with the recollection of all that had to be done on this busy morning
before any summons from her husband could arrive.

Combining packing and dressing, like the essentially unmethodical
little woman she was, Mrs. Egremont still had all her beautiful silky
brown hair about her shoulders when the bell of St. Ambrose's was
heard giving its thin tinkling summons to matins at half-past seven.
She was disappointed; she meant to have gone for this last time, but
there was no help for it, and Nuttie set off by herself.

Gerard Godfrey was at his own door.  He was not one of the regular
attendants at the short service, being of that modern species that
holds itself superior to 'Cranmer's prayers,' but on this morning he
hastened up to her with outstretched hand.

'And you are going away!' he said.

'I hope to get leave to stay a few days after mother,' she said.

'To prolong the torment?' he said.

'To wish everybody good-bye.  It is a great piece of my life that is
come to an end, and I can't bear to break it off so short.'

'And if you feel so, who are going to wealth and pleasure, what must
it be to those who are left behind?'

'Oh!' said Nuttie, 'some one will be raised up.  That's what they
always say. '

'I shall go into a brotherhood,' observed Gerard desperately.

'Oh, don't,' began Nuttie, much gratified, but at that moment Miss
Nugent came out at her door, and Mr. Spyers, who was some way in
advance, looked round and waited for them to come up.  He held out
his hands to her and said, 'Well, Nuttie, my child, you are going to
begin a new life.'

'Oh dear!  I wish I could have both!' cried Nuttie, not very
relevantly as far as the words
went.

'Scheiden und weiden thut weh!' quoted Mary.

'If his place was only Monks Horton.  What will Aunt Ursel do?'

'I think perhaps she may be induced to join us,' said Mary.  'We mean
to do our best to persuade her.'

'And there's the choir!  And my class, and the harmonium,' went on
Nuttie, while Gerard walked on disconsolately.

'Micklethwayte has existed without you, Nuttie,' said Mr. Spyers,
taking her on with him alone.  'Perhaps it will be able to do so
again.  My dear, you had better look on.  There will be plenty for
you to learn and to do where you are going, and you will be sure to
find much to enjoy, and also something to bear.  I should like to
remind you that the best means of going on well in this new world
will be to keep self down and to have the strong desire that only
love can give to be submissive, and to do what is right both to God
and your father and mother.  May I give you a text to take with you?
"Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right."'

They were at the door and there was no time for an answer, but
Nuttie, as she took her place, was partly touched and partly fretted
at the admonition.

The question as to her remaining a day or two after her mother was
soon disposed of.  Mrs. Egremont sent a pretty little note to make
the request, but the elegant valet who appeared at ten o'clock
brought a verbal message that his master wished Mrs. and Miss
Egremont to be ready by two o'clock to join him in calling on Lady
Kirkaldy at Monks Horton, and that if their luggage was ready by four
o'clock, he (Gregorio) would take charge of it, as they were all to
go up to town by the 4.40 train.

'Did he have my note?' faltered Alice, stimulated by the imploring
glances of aunt and daughter, but anticipating the answer.

'Yes, madame, but he wishes that Miss Egremont should accompany you
immediately.'

'Of course,' was Alice's comment, 'now that he has found his child,
he cannot bear to part with her.'

And all through the farewells that almost rent the gentle Alice's
heart in two, she was haunted by the terror that she or her daughter
should have red eyes to vex her husband.  As to Mr. Dutton, he had
only come in with Gerard in a great hurry just after breakfast, said
there was much to do to-day at the office, as they were going to take
stock, and they should neither of them have time to come home to
luncheon.  He shook the hands of mother and daughter heartily,
promised to 'look after' Miss Headworth, and bore off in his train
young Gerard, looking the picture of woe, and muttering 'I believe he
has got it up on purpose;' while mother and daughter thought it very
odd, and rather unkind.





CHAPTER IX.
NEW PLUMES.




'And ye sall walk in silk attire,
 And siller hae to spare.'--Old Ballad.


The very best open fly and pair of horses, being the equipage most
like a private carriage possessed by the Royal Hotel, came to the
door with Mr. Egremont seated in it, at a few minutes after two
o'clock, and found Alice in her only black silk, with a rose in her
bonnet, and a tie to match on her neck, hastily procured as signs of
her wifehood.

She had swallowed her tears, and Nuttie was not a crying person, but
was perfectly scarlet on her usually brown cheeks.  Her father
muttered some civility about back seats, but it was plain that it was
only in words, and she never thought of anything but looking back,
with her last wave to her aunt and the two maids, one crying at the
gate, the other at the door.

'There,' said Mr. Egremont, as they drove away, 'that is over!'

'My dear aunt,' said his wife.  'Who can express her goodness to me?'

'Cela va sans dire,' was the reply.  'But these are connections that
happily Ursula is young enough to forget and leave behind.'

'I shall never forget!' began Nuttie, but she saw her father
composing himself in his corner without paying the slightest heed to
what she was saying, and she encountered a warning and alarmed glance
from her mother, so she was forced to content herself with uttering
silent vows of perpetual recollection as she passed each well-known
object,--the unfinished church, with Mr. Spyers at the door talking
to old Bellman; the Town Hall, whose concerts, lectures, and S. P. G.
meetings had been her chief gaiety and excitement; the School of Art,
where Lady Kirkaldy's appearance now seemed to her to have been like
that of a bird of omen; past the shops in the High Street, with a
little exultation at the thought of past desires which they had
excited.  Long could she have rattled away, her hopes contradicting
her regrets, and her regrets qualifying her anticipations, but she
saw that her mother was nervous about every word and gesture, and
fairly looked dismayed when she exclaimed, 'Oh, mother, there's Etta
Smith; how surprised she will be!' bowing and smiling with all her
might.

There was a look of bare toleration on Mr. Egremont's face, as if he
endured because it would soon be over, as Nuttie bowed several times,
and his wife, though less quick to catch people's eyes, sometimes
also made her recognition.  When the streets were past and Nuttie had
aimed her last nods at the nursery parties out walking on the road,
she became aware that those cold, lack-lustre, and yet sharply
critical eyes of her father were scanning her all over.

'She has been educated?' he presently said to his wife.

'Oh yes,' was the eager answer.  'She is in the highest form at the
High School, and has to go up for the Senior Local Examination.  Miss
Belper makes sure that she will get a first class.'

Mr. Egremont gave a little wave of the hand, as dismissing something
superfluous, and said, 'I hope she has some accomplishments.'

'She has done very fairly in French and German--'

'And Latin,' put in Ursula.

'And she has had several prizes at the School of Art.'

'And music?  That's the only thing of any value in society,' he said
impatiently, and Mrs. Egremont said more timidly, 'She has learnt
music regularly.'

'But I don't care about it,' broke in Nuttie.  'I haven't mother's
ear nor her voice.  I learnt the science in case I should have to
teach, and they make me practise.  I don't mind classical music, but
I can't stand rubbish, and I think it is waste of time.'

Mr. Egremont looked fairly amused, as at the outspoken folly of an
enfant terrible, but he only said, either to his wife or to himself,
'A little polish, and then she may be fairly presentable. '

'We have taken great pains with her,' answered the gentle mother,
evidently taking this as a great compliment, while the daughter was
tingling with indignation.  She, bred up by mother, and aunt, and
Mary Nugent, to be barely presentable.  Was not their society at
Micklethwayte equal in good manners to any, and superior, far
superior, in goodness and intelligence to these stupid fashionable
people, who undervalued all her real useful acquirements, and cared
for nothing but trumpery music.

The carriage entered the park, and Nuttie saw lake and woods from a
fresh point of view.  The owners were both at home, and Nuttie found
herself walking behind her parents into a cheerful apartment, half
library, half morning-room.  Mrs. Egremont was by far the most shy
and shrinking of the party, but it was an occasion that showed her
husband's complete tact and savoir favre.  He knew perfectly well
that the Kirkaldys knew all about it, and he therefore took the
initiative.  'You are surprised to see us,' he said, as he gave his
hand, 'but we could not leave the country without coming to thank
Lady Kirkaldy for her kindness in assisting in following up the clue
to Mrs. Egremont's residence.'

'I am very happy,' said Lady Kirkaldy, while all were being seated.

'I think it was here that my nephew Mark first met one whom, child as
he was, he could not but remember.'

'I don't think you met him here,' said Lady Kirkaldy to Mrs.
Egremont; 'but he heard the name and was struck by it.'

'Dear Mark!' was the response.  'He was so kind.'

'He is a dear good boy,' chimed in my lady.

'Yes,' said her lord, 'an excellent good fellow with plenty of
brains.'

'As he well knows,' said Mr. Egremont.  'Oh yes; I quite agree with
all you say of him!  One ought to be thankful for the possession of a
rare specimen.'

It was in the tone in which Falstaff discussed that sober boy, Lord
John of Lancaster.  Lord Kirkaldy asked if the visitors were going to
remain long in the neighbourhood.

'We are due in London to-night,' replied Mr. Egremont.  'We shall
spend a day or two there, and then go home.  Alice,' he added, though
his wife had never heard him call her so before, 'Lady Kirkaldy knows
your inexperience.  Perhaps she would be good enough to give you some
addresses that might be useful.'

'I shall be delighted,' said the lady, cordially looking at the
blushing Mrs. Egremont.

'Dressmaker, and all the rest of it,' said Mr. Egremont.  'You know
better than she does what she will require, and a little advice will
be invaluable.  Above all, if you could tell her how to pick up a
maid.'

Lady Kirkaldy proposed to take the mother and daughter up to her
dressing-room, where she kept her book of addresses to London
tradesmen; and Mr. Egremont only begged that they would remember the
4.40 train.  Then Lord Kirkaldy was left to entertain him, while the
ladies went up the broad staircase to the pleasant room, which had a
mingled look of refinement and usefulness which struck Nuttie at
once.  Lady Kirkaldy, as soon as the door was shut, took her visitor
by the hand, kissed her forehead, and said, 'You must let me tell you
how glad I am.'

The crystal veil at once spread over Alice's eyes.

'Oh, thank you. Lady Kirkaldy!  I am _so_ happy, and yet I am so
afraid.  Please tell me what we shall _do_ so that we may not vex
him, so high bred and fastidious as he is?'

'Be yourself!  That's all, my dear,' said Lady Kirkaldy tenderly.
'Don't be afraid.  You are quite incapable of doing anything that
could distress the most fastidious taste.'

It was perfectly true of the mother, perhaps less so of the daughter;
but Lady Kirkaldy only thought of her as a mere girl, who could
easily be modelled by her surroundings.  The kind hostess applied
herself to giving the addresses of the people she thought likely to
be most useful in the complete outfit which she saw would be
necessary, explaining to which establishments she applied with
confidence if she needed to complete her wardrobe in haste, feeling
certain that nothing would be sent her that she disliked, and giving
leave to use her name.  She soon saw that the mother was a little
dazed, while Ursula's eyes grew rounder at the unlimited vista of
fine clothes, and she assented, and asked questions as to the
details.  As to a maid, Lady Kirkaldy would write to a person who
would call on Mrs. Egremont at the hotel in London, and who might be
what was wanted; and in conclusion, Lady Kirkaldy, with some
diffidence, begged to be written to--'if--if,' she said, 'there
happened to be any difficulty about which you might not like to
consult Mrs. William Egremont.'  Nuttie hardly knew whether to be
grateful or not, for she did not believe in any standard above that
of Micklethwayte, and she was almost angry at her mother's grateful
answer--'Oh, thank you!  I should be so grateful!  I am so afraid of
annoying him by what he may think small, ignorant, country-town ways!
You will understand--'

Lady Kirkaldy did understand, and she dreaded what might be before
the sweet little yielding woman, not from want of breeding so much as
from the long-indulged selfishness of her husband; but she encouraged
her as much as possible, and promised all possible counsel, bringing
her downstairs again just in time.

'Pretty little soul!' said Lord Kirkaldy, as the fly clattered away.
'I wonder whether Mark has done her a kindness!'

'It is just what she is, a pretty, nay, a beautiful soul, full of
tenderness and forgiveness and affection and humility, only I doubt
whether there is any force or resolution to hold her own.  You smile!
Well, perhaps the less of that she has the better she may get on with
him.  Did he say anything about her?'

'No; I think he wants to ignore that they have not spent the last
twenty years together.'

'That may be the best way for all parties.  Do you think he will
behave well to her?'

'No man could well do otherwise to such a sweet little thing,' said
Lord Kirkaldy; 'especially as she will be his most obedient slave,
and will make herself necessary to him.  It is much better luck than
he deserves; but I pity her when she comes to make her way with yon
ladies!'

'I wish I was there!  I know she will let herself be trodden on!
However, there's Mark to stand up for her, and William Egremont will
do whatever he thinks right and just.  I wish I knew how his wife
will take it!'





CHAPTER X.
BRIDGEFIELD EGREMONT.




'Let us see these handsome houses
 Where the wealthy nobles dwell.'--TENNYSON.


'Mother, mother!' cried two young people, bursting open the door of
the pretty dining-room of Bridgefield Rectory, where the grown-up
part of the family were lingering over a late breakfast.

'Gently, gently, children,' said the dignified lady at the head of
the table.  'Don't disturb papa.'

'But we really have something to say, mother!' said the elder girl,
'and Fraulein said you ought to know.  Uncle Alwyn is come home, and
Mrs. Egremont.  And please, are we to call her Aunt Egremont, or Aunt
Alwyn, or what?'

The desired sensation was produced.  Canon Egremont put down his
newspaper.  The two elder sisters looked from one to the other in
unmitigated astonishment.  Mark briefly made answer to the final
question, 'Aunt Alice,' and Mrs. Egremont said gravely, 'How did you
hear this, Rosalind?  You know I always forbid you to gossip.'

'We didn't gossip, mother.  We went up to the gardens to get some
mulberries for our half-holiday feast; and Ronaldson came out and
told us we must ask leave first, for the ladies were come.  The
Squire came home at nine o'clock last night, and Mrs. Egremont and
all, and only sent a telegram two hours before to have the rooms got
ready.'

'Has Uncle Alwyn gone and got himself married?' exclaimed one of the
young ladies, in utter amazement.

'Not just now, Blanche,' said her father.  'It is an old story now.
Your uncle married this lady, who had been governess to May and Mark,
many years ago, and from--circumstances in which she was not at all
to blame, he lost sight of her while he was abroad with old General
Egremont.  Mark met her about a fortnight ago, and this has led to
your uncle's going in quest of her, though he has certainly been more
sudden in his proceedings than I expected.'

The mother here succeeded in sending Rosalind and Adela, with their
wondering eyes, off the scene, and she would much have liked to send
her two stepdaughters after them, but one-and-twenty and eighteen
could not so readily be ordered off as twelve and ten; and Mark, who
had been prohibited from uttering a word to his sisters, was eagerly
examining Margaret whether she remembered their Edda; but she had
been only three years old at the time of the adventures in the Isle
of Wight, and remembered nothing distinctly but the aspect of one of
the sailors in the yacht.

'Well,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'this has come very suddenly upon us.  It
would have been more for her own dignity if she had held out a little
before coming so easily to terms, after the way in which she has been
treated.'

'When you see her, mother, you will understand,' said Mark.

'Shall we have to be intimate with her?' asked May.

'I desire that she should be treated as a relation,' said the Canon
decidedly.  'There is nothing against her character,' and, as his
wife was about to interrupt,--'nothing but an indiscretion to which
she was almost driven many years ago.  She was cruelly treated, and I
for one am heartily sorry for having let myself be guided by others.'

Mrs. William Egremont felt somewhat complacent, for she knew he meant
Lady de Lyonnais, and there certainly had been no love lost between
her and her step-children's grandmother; but she was a sensible
woman, and forbore to speak, though there was a mental reservation
that intimacy would a good deal depend upon circumstances.  Blanche
cried out that it was a perfect romance, and May gravely said, 'But
is she a lady?'

'A perfect lady,' said Mark.  'Aunt Margaret says so.'

'One knows what a perfect lady means,' returned May.

'Come, May,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'do not let us begin with a
prejudice.  By all accounts the poor thing has conducted herself with
perfect respectability all this time.  What did you tell me, Mark?
She has been living with an aunt, keeping a school at Micklethwayte.'

 Not quite,' said Mark.  'She has been acting as a daily governess.
She seemed to be on friendly terms with the clerical folk.  I came
across the name at a school feast, or something of the kind, which
came off in the Kirkaldys' park.'

'Oh, then, I know exactly the sort of person!' returned May, pursing
up her lips.

Mark laughed and said, 'I wonder whether it is too soon to go up and
see them.  I wonder what my uncle thinks of his daughter.'

'What!  You don't mean to say there is a daughter?' cried May.

'Even so.  And exactly like you too, Miss May.'

'Then you are cut out, Mark!'

'You are cut out, I think, May.  You'll have to give her all your
Miss Egremont cards.'

'No,' said the young lady; 'mother made me have my Christian name
printed.  She said all but the daughters of the head of the family
ought to have it so.  I'm glad of it.'

'How old is she?' asked Blanche.

'About a year younger than you.'

'I think it is very interesting,' said Blanche.  'How wonderful it
must all be to her!  I will go up with you, Mark, as soon as I can
get ready.'

'You had better wait till later in the day, Blanche,' said the
mother.  She knew the meeting was inevitable, but she preferred
having it under her own eye, if she could not reconnoitre.

She was a just and sensible woman, who felt reparation due to the
newly-discovered sister-in-law, and that harmony, or at least the
appearance of it, must be preserved; but she was also exclusive and
fastidious by nature, and did not look forward to the needful
intercourse with much satisfaction either on her own account or that
of her family.

She told Mark to say that she should come to see Mrs. Egremont after
luncheon, since he was determined to go at once, and moreover to drag
his father with him.  Canon Egremont was a good and upright man,
according to his lights, which were rather those of a well-beneficed
clergyman of the first than of the last half of the century,
intensified perhaps that the passive voice was the strongest in him.
All the country knew that Canon Egremont could be relied on to give a
prudent, scholarly judgment, and to be kind and liberal, when once
induced to stir mind or body--but how to do that was the problem.  He
had not been a young man at the time of his first marriage, and was
only a few years' junior to his brother, though he had the fresh,
wholesome look of a man who kept regular hours and lived much in the
air.

Alice knew him at once, and thought eighteen years had made little
change, as, at Nuttie's call to her, she looked from the window and
saw the handsome, dignified, gray-haired, close-shaven rosy face, and
the clerical garb unchanged in favour of long coats and high
waistcoats.

The mother and daughter were exploring the house together.  Mr.
Egremont had made it known that he preferred having his breakfast
alone, and not being disturbed in the forenoon.  So the two ladies
had breakfasted together at nine, the earliest hour at which they
could prevail on the household to give them a meal.  Indeed Nuttie
had slept till nearly that time, for between excitement and noise,
her London slumbers had been broken; and her endeavour to keep
Micklethwayte hours had resulted in a long, weary, hungry time in the
sitting-room of the hotel, with nothing to do, when the gaze from the
window palled on her, but to write to her aunt and Mary Nugent.  The
rest of the day had been spent in driving about in a brougham with
her mother shopping, and this she could not but enjoy exceedingly,
more than did the timid Mrs. Egremont, who could not but feel herself
weighted with responsibility; and never having had to spend at the
utmost more than ten pounds at a time, felt bewildered at the cheques
put into her hands, and then was alarmed to find them melting away
faster than she expected.

There was a very late dinner, after which Mr. Egremont, on the first
day, made his wife play bezique with him.  She enjoyed it, as a
tender reminiscence of the yachting days; but Nuttie found herself de
trop, and was reduced to the book she had contrived to purchase on
her travels.  The second night Mr. Egremont had picked up two
friends, not yet gone out of town, whose talk was of horses and of
yachts, quite incomprehensible to the ladies.  They were very
attentive to Mrs. Egremont, whom they evidently admired, one so
visibly as to call up a blush; but they disregarded the daughter as a
schoolgirl.  Happily they appeared no more after the dinner; but
Nuttie's first exclamation of astonished disgust was silenced at once
by her mother with unusual determination, 'You must not speak so of
your father's friends.'

'Not when--'

'Not at all,' interrupted Mrs. Egremont.

The only sense of promotion to greatness that Ursula had yet enjoyed
was in these fine clothes, and the maid whom Lady Kirkaldy had
recommended, a grave and severe-looking person, of whom both stood
somewhat in awe.  The arrival at Bridgefield had been too late for
anything to be taken in but a general impression of space and
dreariness, and the inevitable dinner of many courses, after which
Nuttie was so tired out that her mother sent her to bed.

Since the waking she had made some acquaintance with the house.
There was no show of domestics, no curtseying housekeeper to parade
the new mistress over the house; Mr. Egremont had told his wife that
she must fill up the establishment as she pleased, but that there was
an admirable cook downstairs, and he would not have her interfered
with--she suited his tastes as no one else did, and she must be left
to deal with the provisions and her own underlings.  There was a
stable establishment, and a footman had been hired in town, but there
was besides only one untidy-looking housemaid, who began by giving
warning; and Alice and Nuttie had roamed about without meeting any
one from the big wainscotted dining-room with faded crimson curtains
and family portraits, the older grimy, the younger chalky, to the two
drawing-rooms, whose gilding and pale blue damask had been preserved
by pinafores of brown holland; the library, which looked and smelt as
if Mr. Egremont was in the habit of sitting there, and a big
billiard-room, all opening into a shivery-feeling hall, with
Scagliola columns and a few dirty statues between them; then upstairs
to a possible morning-room, looking out over a garden lawn, where
mowing was going on in haste, and suites of dreary shut-up fusty
bedrooms.  Nuttie, who had notions of choosing her own bower, could
not make up her mind which looked the least inviting.  It did not
seem as if girls could ever have laughed together, or children
clattered up and down the stairs.  Mrs. Egremont begged her to keep
possession for the present at least of the chamber where the grim
housemaid had chosen to put her, and which had the advantage of being
aired.

The two windows looked out over the park, and thence it was that
while Morris, the maid, was unpacking and putting away the new
purchases, and Nuttie was standing, scarcely realising that such
pretty hats and bonnets could be her very own, when her mother beheld
the Canon and Mark advancing up the drive.  It was with a great start
that she called Ursula to come down directly with her, as no one
would know where to find them, hastily washing the hands that had
picked up a sense of dustiness during the exploration, and taking a
comprehensive glance in the cheval glass, which showed her some one
she felt entirely unfamiliar to her in a dainty summer costume of
pale gray silk picked out with a mysterious shade of pink.  Ursula
too thought Miss Egremont's outer woman more like a Chelsea
shepherdess than Nuttie's true self, as she tripped along in her
buckled shoes and the sea green stockings that had been sent home
with her skirt.  With crimson cheeks and a throbbing heart, Alice was
only just at the foot of the stairs when the newcomers had made their
way in, and the kind Canon, ignoring all that was past, held out his
hands saying, 'Well, my dear, I am glad to see you here,' kissing
Mrs. Egremont on each cheek.  'And so this is your daughter.  How do
you do, my dear--Ursula?  Isn't that your name?'  And Ursula had
again to submit to a kiss, much more savoury and kindly than her
father's, though very stubbly.  And oh! her uncle's dress was like
that of no one she had ever seen except the rector of the old church,
the object of unlimited contempt to the adherents of St. Ambrose's.

As to Mark, he only kissed his aunt, and shook hands with her, while
his father ran on with an unusual loquacity that was a proof of
nervousness in him.

'Mrs. Egremont--Jane, I mean--will be here after luncheon.  She
thought you would like to get settled in first.  How is Alwyn?  Is he
down yet?'

'I will see,' in a trembling voice.

'Oh no, never mind, Alwyn hates to be disturbed till he has made
himself up in the morning.  My call is on you, you know.  Where are
you sitting?'

'I don't quite know.  In the drawing-room, I suppose.'

The Canon, knowing the house much better than she did, opened a door
into a third drawing-room she had not yet seen, a pretty little room,
fitted up with fluted silk, like a tent, somewhat faded but not much
the worse for that, and opening into a conservatory, which seemed to
have little in it but some veteran orange trees.  Nuttie, however,
exclaimed with pleasure at the nicest room she had seen, and Mark
began unfastening the glass door that led into it.  Meantime Alice,
with burning cheeks and liquid eyes, nerved her voice to say, 'Oh,
sir--Mr. Egremont--please forgive me!  I know now how wrong I was.'

'Nonsense, my dear.  Bygones are bygones.  You were far more sinned
against than sinning, and have much to forgive me.  There, my dear,
we will say no more about it, nor think of it either.  I am only too
thankful that poor Alwyn should have some one to look after him.'

Alice, who had dreaded nothing more than the meeting with her former
master, was infinitely relieved and grateful for this kindness.  She
had ejaculated, 'Oh, you are so good!' in the midst, and now at the
mention of her husband, she exclaimed, 'Oh! do you think he is ill?
I can't help being afraid he is, but he will not tell me, and does
not like to be asked.'

'Poor fellow, he has damaged his health a good deal,' was the answer.
'He had a sharp attack in the spring, but he has pretty well got over
it, and Raikes told me there was no reason for uneasiness, provided
he would be careful; and that will be a much easier matter now.  I
should not wonder if we saw him with quite a renewed youth.'

So the Canon and Mrs. Egremont were getting on pretty well together,
but there was much more stiffness and less cordiality between the two
cousins, although Mark got the window open into the conservatory, and
showed Nuttie the way into the garden, advising her to ask Ronaldson,
the gardener, to fill the conservatory with flowers.  The pavilion,
as this little room was called, always seemed to have more capacities
for being lived in than any other room in the house.  It had been
fitted up when such things were the fashion for the shortlived bride
of 'our great uncle.'

'The colour must have been awful then,' said Mark, looking up at it,
'enough to set one's teeth on edge; but it has faded into something
quite orthodox--much better than could be manufactured for you.'

Mark had evidently some ideas of art, and was besides inclined to do
the honours to the stranger; but Nuttie was not going to encourage
him or anybody else to make up to her, while she had that look of
Gerard Godfrey's in her mind's eye.  So she made small answer, and he
felt rebuffed, but supposed her shy, and wondered when he could go
back to her mother, who was so much more attractive.

Presently his father went off to storm the den of the master of the
house, and there was a pleasant quarter of an hour, during which the
three went out through the conservatory, and Mark showed the ins-and-
outs of the garden, found out Ronaldson, and congratulated him on
having some one at last to appreciate his flowers, begging him to
make the conservatory beautiful.  And Mrs. Egremont's smile was so
effective that the Scot forthwith took out his knife and presented
her with the most precious of the roses within his reach.

Moreover Mark told the names and ages of all his sisters, whole and
half.  He was the only son, except a little fellow in the nursery.
And he exhorted his aunt not to be afraid of his step-mother, who was
a most excellent person, he declared, but who never liked to see any
one afraid of her.

There was something a little alarming in this, but on the whole the
visit was very pleasant and encouraging to Mrs. Egremont; and she
began rejoicing over the kindness as soon as the Canon had summoned
his son, and they had gone away together.

'I am sure you must be delighted with your uncle and cousin, my
dear,' she said.

'He's not a bit my notion of a priest,' returned Nuttie.  'And I
don't believe he has any daily prayers!'

'He is old-fashioned, my dear.'

'One of the stodgey old clergymen in books,' observed Nuttie.  'I
didn't think there were any of that sort left.'

'Oh, my dear, pray don't take fancies into your head!  He is a very,
very good man, and has been most kind to me, far more than I deserve,
and he is your uncle, Nuttie.  I do so hope you will get on well with
your cousins.'

Here a gong, a perfectly unknown sound to Nuttie, made itself heard,
and rather astonished her by the concluding roar.  The two ladies
came out into the hall as Mr. Egremont was crossing it.  He made an
inclination of the head, and uttered a sort of good morning to his
daughter, but she was perfectly content to have no closer salutation.
Having a healthy noonday appetite, her chief wish was at the moment
that those beautiful little cutlets, arranged in a crown form, were
not so very tiny; or that, with two men-servants looking on, it were
possible to attain to a second help, but she had already learnt that
Gregorio would not hear her, and that any attempt to obtain more food
frightened her mother.

'So his reverence has been to see you,' observed Mr. Egremont.
'William, if you like it better.'

'Oh yes, and he was kindness itself!'

'And how did Master Mark look at finding I could dispense with his
assistance?'

'I think he is very glad.'

Mr. Egremont laughed.  'You are a simple woman, Edda!  The pose of
virtuous hero was to have been full compensation for all that it
might cost him!  And no doubt he looks for the reward of virtue
likewise.'

Wherewith he looked full at Ursula, who, to her extreme vexation,
felt herself blushing up to the ears.  She fidgeted on her chair, and
began a most untrue 'I'm sure--' for, indeed, the poor girl was sure
of nothing, but that her father's manner was most uncomfortable to
her.  His laugh choked whatever she might have said, which perhaps
was well, and her mother's cheeks glowed as much as hers did.

'Did the Canoness--Jane, I mean--come up?' Mr. Egremont went on.

'Mrs. Egremont?  No; she sent word that she is coming after
luncheon.'

'Hm!  Then I shall ride out and leave you to her majesty.  Now look
you, Alice, you are to be very careful with William's wife.  She is a
Condamine, you know, and thinks no end of herself, and your position
among the women-folk of the county depends more on how she takes you
up than anything else.  But that doesn't mean that you are to let her
give herself airs and domineer over you.  Remember you are the elder
brother's wife--Mrs. Egremont of Bridgefield Egremont--and she is
nothing but a parson's wife, and I won't have her meddling in my
house.  Only don't you be absurd and offend her, for she can do more
for or against you in society than any one else--more's the pity!'

'Oh! won't you stay and help me receive her?' exclaimed the poor
lady, utterly confused by these contrary directions.

'Not I!  I can't abide the woman! nor she me!'  He added, after a
moment, 'You will do better without me.'

So he went out for his ride, and Ursula asked, 'Oh, mother! what will
you do?'

'The best I can, my dear.  They are good people, and are sure to be
kinder than I deserve.'

Nuttie was learning that her mother would never so much as hear, far
less answer, a remark on her husband.  It was beginning to make a
sore in the young heart that a barrier was thus rising, where there
once had been as perfect oneness and confidence as could exist
between two natures so dissimilar, though hitherto the unlikeness had
never made itself felt.

Mrs, Egremont turned the conversation to the establishing themselves
in the pavilion, whither she proceeded to import some fancy-work that
she had bought in London, and sent Nuttie to Ronaldson, who was
arranging calceolarias, begonias, and geraniums in the conservatory,
to beg for some cut-flowers for a great dusty-looking vase in the
centre of the table.

These were being arranged when Mrs. William Egremont and Miss Blanche
Egremont were ushered in, and there were the regular kindred
embraces, after which Alice and Nuttie were aware of a very handsome,
dignified-looking lady, well though simply dressed in what was
evidently her home costume, with a large shady hat and feather, her
whole air curiously fitting the imposing nickname of the Canoness.
Blanche was a slight, delicate-looking, rather pretty girl in a lawn-
tennis dress.  The visitor took the part of treating the newcomers as
well-established relations.

'We would not inundate you all at once,' she said, 'but the children
are all very eager to see their cousin.  I wish you would come down
to the Rectory with me.  My ponies are at the door.  I would drive
you, and Ursula might walk with Blanche.'  And, as Alice hesitated
for a moment, considering how this might agree with the complicated
instructions that she had received, she added, 'Never mind Alwyn.  I
saw him going off just before I came up, and he told William he was
going to look at some horses at Hale's, so he is disposed of for a
good many hours.'

Alice decided that her husband would probably wish her to comply, and
she rejoiced to turn her daughter in among the cousins, so hats,
gloves, and parasols were fetched, and the two mothers drove away
with the two sleek little toy ponies.  By which it may be perceived
that Mrs. William Egremont's first impressions were favourable.

'It is the shortest way through the gardens,' said Blanche.  'Have
you been through them yet?'

'Mark walked about with us a little.'

'You'll improve them ever so much.  There are great capabilities.
Look, you could have four tennis courts on this one lawn.  We wanted
to have a garden-party up here last year, and father said we might,
but mother thought Uncle Alwyn might think it a liberty; but now
you'll have some delicious ones?  Of course you play lawn-tennis?'

'I have seen it a very few times,' said Nuttie.

'Oh, we must teach you!  Fancy living without lawn-tennis!' said
Blanche.  'I always wonder what people did without it.  Only'--with
an effort at antiquarianism--'I believe they had croquet.'

'Aunt Ursula says there weren't garden-parties before croquet came
in.'

'How dreadful, Ursula!  Your name's Ursula, isn't it?  Haven't you
some jolly little name to go by?'

'Nuttie.'

'Nuttie!  That's scrumptious!  I'll call you Nuttie, and you may call
me Pussycat.'

'That's not so nice as Blanche.'

'Mother won't have me called so when strangers are there, but you
aren't a stranger, you know.  You must tell me all about yourself,
and how you came never to learn tennis!'

'I had something else to do,' said Nuttie, with dignity.

'Oh, you were in the schoolroom!  I forgot.  Poor little Nuts!'

'At school,' said Ursula.

'Ah, I remember!  But you're out now, aren't you?  I've been out
since this spring.  Mother won't let us come out till we are
eighteen, isn't it horrid?  And we were so worked there!  I can tell
you a finishing governess is an awful institution!  Poor little Rosie
and Adey will be in for one by and by.  At present they've only got a
jolly little Fraulein that they can do anything they please with.'

'Oh, I wonder if she would tell me of some German books!'

'You don't mean that you want to read German!' and Blanche stood
still, and looked at her cousin in astonishment.

'Why, what else is the use of learning it?'

'Oh, I don't know.  Every one does.  If one went abroad or to court,
you know,' said Blanche vaguely; but Ursula had now a fresh subject
of interest; for, on emerging from the shrubbery, they came in sight
of a picturesque but not very architectural church, which had the
smallest proportion of wall and the largest of roof, and a pretty
oriel-windowed schoolhouse covered with clematis.  Nuttie rushed into
inquiries about services and schools, and was aghast at hearing of
mere Sundays and saints' days.

'Oh no! father isn't a bit Ritualistic.  I wish he was, it would be
so much prettier; and then he always advertises for curates of
moderate views, and they are so stupid.  You never saw such a stick
as we have got now, Mr. Edwards; and his wife isn't a lady, I'm
sure.'

Then as to schools, it was an absolute amazement to Nuttie to find
that the same plans were in force as had prevailed when her uncle had
come to the living and built that pretty house--nay, were kept up at
his sole expense, because he liked old-fashioned simplicity, and did
not choose to be worried with Government inspection.

'And,' said Blanche, 'every one says our girls work ever so much
better, and make nicer servants than those that are crammed with all
sorts of nonsense not fit for them.'

As to the Sunday school.  Mother and the curate take care of that.
I'm sure, if you like it, you can have my class, for I always have a
headache there, and very often I can't go.  Only May pegs away at it,
and she won't let me have the boys, who are the only jolly ones,
because she says I spoil them.  But you must be my friend--mind,
Nuttie, not May's, for we are nearer the same age.  When is your
birthday?  You must put it down in my book!'

Nuttie, who had tolerable experience of making acquaintance with new
girls, was divided between a sense of Blanche's emptiness, and the
warmth excited by her friendliness, as well as of astonishment at all
she heard and saw.

Crossing the straggling, meandering village street, the cousins
entered the grounds of the Rectory, an irregular but well-kept
building of the soft stone of the country, all the garden front of it
a deep verandah that was kept open in summer, but closed with glass
frames in the winter--flower-beds lying before it, and beyond a lawn
where the young folk were playing at the inevitable lawn-tennis.

Margaret was not so pretty as Blanche, but had a more sensible face,
and her welcome to Ursula was civil but reserved.  Rosalind and Adela
were bright little things, in quite a different style from their
half-sisters, much lighter in complexion and promising to be
handsomer women.  They looked full of eagerness and curiosity at the
new cousin, whom Blanche set down on a bank, and proceeded to
instruct in the mysteries of the all-important game by comments and
criticisms on the players.

As soon as Mark and Adela had come out conquerors, Ursula was called
on to take her first lesson.  May resigned her racket, saying she had
something to do, and walked off the field, and carrying off with her
Adela, who, as Blanche said, 'had a spine,' and was ordered to lie
down for an hour every afternoon.  The cheerfulness with which she
went spoke well for the training of the family.

Nuttie was light-footed and dexterous handed, and accustomed to
active amusements, so that, under the tuition of her cousins, she
became a promising pupil, and thawed rapidly, even towards Mark.

She was in the midst of her game when the two mothers came out, for
the drive had been extended all round the park, under pretext of
showing it to its new mistress, but really to give the Canoness an
opportunity of judging of her in a tete-a-tete.  Yet that sensible
woman had asked no alarming questions on the past, still less had
offered any advice that could seem like interference.  She had only
named localities, mentioned neighbours, and made little
communications about the ways of the place such as might elicit
remarks; and, as Alice's voice betrayed less and less constraint, she
ventured on speaking of their daughters, so as to draw forth some
account of how Ursula might have been educated.

And of this, Alice was ready and eager to talk, telling how clever
and how industrious Nuttie had always been, and how great an
advantage Miss Nugent's kindness was, and how she was hoping to go up
for the Cambridge examination; then, detecting some doubt in her
companion's manner, she said, 'It would be a great disappointment to
her not to do so now.  Do you think she had better not?'

'I don't think she will find time to go on with the preparation!
And, to tell the truth, I don't think we are quite ripe for such
things in this county.  We are rather backward, and Ursula, coming in
fresh upon us, might find it a disadvantage to be thought much
cleverer than other people.'

'Ah!  I was not quite sure whether her father would like it.'

'I do not think he would.  I am sure that if my little Rose were to
take it into her head, I should have hard work to get her father's
consent, though no doubt the world will have progressed by the time
she is old enough.'

'That settles it,' said Alice.  'Thank you, Mrs. Egremont.  I own,'
she added presently, 'that I do somewhat regret that it cannot be,
for I thought that a motive for keeping up her studies would be
helpful to my child;--I do not mean for the sake of the studies, but
of the--the balance in all this change and novelty.'

'You are quite right, I have felt it myself,' said her sister-in-law.
'Perhaps something could be done by essay societies.  May belongs to
one, and if Ursula is an intellectual girl, perhaps you could keep
her up to some regular employment in the morning.  I succeeded in
doing so when May came out, but I can accomplish nothing regular but
music with Blanche; and an hour's steady practice a day is better
than nothing.'

The drive was on the whole a success, and so was the tea-drinking in
the verandah, where Aunt Alice and little five-years old Basil became
fast friends and mutual admirers; the Canon strolled out and was
installed in the big, cushioned basket-chair that crackled under his
weight; Blanche recounted Nuttie's successes, and her own tennis
engagements for the week; Mark lay on a rug and teased her, and her
dachshund; Nuttie listened to the family chatter as if it were a
play, and May dispensed the cups, and looked grave and severe.

'Well?' said the Canon anxiously, when Mark, Blanche, and little
Basil had insisted on escorting the guests home, and he and his wife
were for a few minutes tete-a-tete.

'It might have been much worse,' said the lady.  'She is a good
little innocent thing, and has more good sense than I expected.
Governessy, that's all, but she will shake out of that.'

'Of course she will.  It's the best thing imaginable for Alwyn!'

His wife kept back the words, 'A hundred times too good for Alwyn!'





CHAPTER XI.
LAWN-TENNIS.




'Madam, the guests are come, supper served up,
 My young lady asked for!'--Romeo and Juliet.


A garden-party, Mrs. William Egremont decided, would be the best mode
of testifying her approbation of her sister-in-law, and introducing
the newcomers to the neighbourhood.  So the invitations were sent
forth for an early day of the coming week.

From how many points of view was Mrs. William Egremont's garden-party
regarded, and how different!  There was Basil, to whom it meant
wearing his velvet suit and eating as many ices as mother would
allow.  To Blanche, it was an occasion for triumph on the tennis
ground for herself, and for hopes for her pupil; and Ursula herself
looked forward to it and practised for it like a knight for his first
encounter in the lists, her sole care being to distinguish herself
with her racket.  To her mother, it was an ordeal, where she trusted
not to be a mortification to her husband and his family; while to the
hostess, it was a not unwelcome occasion of exercising honest
diplomacy and tact, not without a sense of magnanimity.  To May, it
was a bore to be endured with dutiful philosophy; to her good-natured
father an occasion for hospitality, where he trusted that his brother
would appear, and appear to advantage, and was ready even to bribe
him thereto with that wonderful claret that Alwyn had always envied,
and declared to be wasted on a parson.  And Mark, perhaps he viewed
the occasion with different eyes from any one else.  At any rate,
even the denizens of Bridgefield mustered there with as many minds as
Scott ascribes to the combatants of Bannockburn, and there were
probably as many other circles of feeling more or less intersecting
one another among the more distant guests, most of them, however,
with the same feeling of curiosity as to what this newly-discovered
wife and daughter of Alwyn Egremont might be like.

Externally, in her rich black silk, trimmed with point lace, and her
little straw-coloured bonnet with its tuft of feathery grass and blue
cornflower, she was so charming that her daughter danced round her,
crying, 'O mammy, mammy, if they could but see you at home'--then, at
a look: 'Well then--Aunt Ursel, and Miss Mary, and Mr. Dutton!'

Nuttie was very much pleased with her own pretty tennis dress; but
she had no personal vanity for herself, only for her mother.  The
knowledge that she was no beauty was no grievance to her youthful
spirits; but when her father surveyed them in the hall, she looked
for his verdict for her mother as if their relations were reversed.

'Ha!  Well, you certainly are a pretty creature, Edda,' he said
graciously.  'You'll pass muster!  You want nothing but style.  And,
hang it! you'll do just as well without it, if the Canoness will only
do you justice.  Faces like that weren't given for nothing.'

She blushed incarnadine and accepted one of his kisses with a
pleasure, at which Nuttie wondered, her motherly affection prompting
her to murmur in his ear--

'And Ursula?'

'She'll not cut you out; but she is Egremont enough to do very
fairly.  Going already?'

'If you would come with us,' she said wistfully, to the horror of
Nuttie, who was burning to be at the beginning of all the matches.

'I? oh no!  I promised old Will to look in, but that won't be till
late in the day, or I shall have to go handing all the dowagers into
the dining-room to tea.'

'Then I think we had better go on.  They asked us to come early, so
as to see people arrive and know who they are.'

_They_ was a useful pronoun to Alice, who felt it a liberty to call
her grand-looking sister-in-law, Jane--was too well-bred to term her
Mrs. William.

The mother and daughter crossed the gardens, Nuttie chattering all
the way about the tennis tactics she had picked up from Blanche,
while her mother answered her somewhat mechanically, wondering, as
her eye fell on the square squat gray church tower, what had become
of the earnest devotion to church work and intellectual pursuits that
used to characterise the girl.  True, always both mother and daughter
had hitherto kept up their church-going, and even their Sunday-school
habits, nor had any hindrance come in their way, Mr. Egremont
apparently acquiescing in what he never shared.  But these things
seemed, in Ursula's mind, to have sunk out of the proportion they
held at Bridgefield, no longer to be the spirit of a life, but mere
Sunday duties and occupations.

Was this wicked world getting a hold of the poor child?  Which was
duty? which was the world?  This was the thought that perplexed
Alice, too simple as yet to perceive that Ursula's former absorption
had been in the interests that surrounded her and her companions,
exactly as they were at present, and that the real being had yet to
work itself out.

For herself, Alice did not think at all.  She was rejoicing in her
restored husband, and his evident affection.  Her duty towards him
was in her eyes plain.  She saw, of course, that he had no religion,
but she accepted the fact like that of bad weather; she loved him,
and she loved her daughter; she said her prayers with all her heart
for them, she hoped, and she did her best, without trying to go below
the surface.

There was the Rectory gate wide open.  There was Basil rushing up to
greet his dear Aunt Alice, there were all the windows and doors of
the Rectory open, and the nearer slopes covered with chairs and seats
of all dimensions, some under trees, some umbelliferous, and glowing
Afghan rugs, or spotted skins spread for those who preferred the
ground.  There was Blanche flitting about wild with excitement, and
pouncing on Nuttie to admire her outfit, and reiterate instructions;
there were the two younger girls altering the position of chairs
according to their mother's directions; there were actually two
guests--not very alarming ones, only the curate and his wife, both
rather gaunt, bony people.  He was button-holing the Canon, and she
was trying to do the same by the Canoness about some parish casualty.
The Canon hoped to escape in the welcome to his sister-in-law and
niece, but he was immediately secured again, while his wife found it
requisite to hurry off else where, leaving Mrs. Edwards to tell her
story to Mrs. Egremont.  In point of fact, Alice really liked the
good lady, was quite at ease with her, and felt parish concerns a
natural element, so that she gave full heed and attention to the
cruelty of Mrs. Parkins' depriving Betsy Butter (with an old father
and mother to support) of her family washing, on the ground of a
missing pocket handkerchief, the which Mrs. Edwards believed to have
been abstracted by the favourite pickle of Miss Blanche's class, if
only a confession could be elicited from him when undefended by his
furious mother.  Mrs. Egremont was listening with actual interest and
sympathy to the history of Betsy Butter's struggles, and was
inquiring the way to her cottage, when she was called off to be
introduced to the arrivals who were beginning to flood the lawn.  She
presently saw May, who had just come down, walking up and down with
Mrs. Edwards, evidently hearing the story of the handkerchief.  She
thought it had been Nuttie for a moment.  There was a general
resemblance between the cousins that made them be mistaken for one
another several times in the course of the day, since their dresses,
though not alike, were of the same make and style.

Thus it was that as Nuttie was sitting on the grass in earnest
contemplation of Blanche's play, a hand was familiarly laid on her
shoulder, and a voice said,  'I haven't seen that horrid girl yet!'

After so many introductions, Nuttie had little idea whom she knew, or
whom she did not know.  She looked up and saw a small person in light
blue, with the delicate features, transparent skin, and blue eyes
that accompany yellow hair, with an indescribable glitter of mirth
and joyousness about the whole creature, as if she were part and
parcel of the sunbeam in which she stood,

'What horrid girl?' said Nuttie.

'The interloper, the newly-discovered savage, come to upset--Ah!'--
with a little shriek--'It isn't May!  I beg your pardon.'

'I'm May's cousin,' said Nuttie, 'Ursula Egremont.'

'Oh, oh!' and therewith the fact burst on both girls at once.  They
stood still a moment in dismay, then the stranger went into a fit of
laughter.  'Oh, I beg your pardon!  I can't help it!  It is so
funny!'

Nuttie was almost infected, though somewhat hurt.  'Who said I was
horrid?' she asked.

'Nobody!  Nobody but me--Annaple Ruthven--and they'll all tell you,
May and all, that I'm always putting my foot in it.  And I never
meant that you were horrid--you yourself--you know--only--'

'Only nobody wanted us here,' said Nuttie; 'but we could not help
it.'

'Of course not.  It was shocking, just my way.  Please forgive me!'
and she looked most pleading.  Nuttie held out her hand with
something about 'No one could mind;' and therewith Annaple cried,
'Oh, if you don't mind, we can have our laugh out!' and the rippling
laughter did set Nuttie off at once.  The peal was not over when May
herself was upon them demanding what was the joke.

'Oh, there she is!  The real May!  Why,' said Annaple, kissing her,
'only think here I've been and gone and thought this was you, and
inquired about--What was it?--the awful monster--the chimera dire--
that Mark had routed up--'

'No; you didn't say that,' said Nuttie, half provoked.

'Never mind what I said.  Don't repeat it.  I only wish myself and
every one else to forget it.  Now it is swept to the winds by a good
wholesome giggling.  But what business have you two to be so
inconveniently alike?  You are as bad as the twin Leslies!'

'There's an old foremother on the staircase in white satin who left
her looks to us both,' said May.

'You'll have to wear badges,' said Annaple.  'You know the Leslies
were so troublesome that one had to be shipped off to the East Indies
and the other to the West.'

'They married, that's all,' said May, seeing Nuttie looking
mystified; and at that moment, Blanche's side coming out victorious,
Nuttie descended into the arena to congratulate and be asked to form
part of the next set.

'Well, that was a scrape!' said Annaple; 'but she wasn't bad about
it!  I must do something to make up for it somehow--get Janet to
invite her, but really Janet is in such a state of mind that I am
mildness itself compared with her.  She would not have come, only
John was curious, and declared he should go whether we did or not.'

'Ah!' said May, 'I saw him, like the rest of mankind, at madame's
feet.'

'Oh! is she of that sort?'

'No,' said May, 'not at all.  Mother and father too both think she is
good to the backbone; but she is very pretty, with just the inane
soft sweetness that men rave about--innocent really.  All accounts of
her are excellent, and she has nice parish ways, and will be as
helpful as Uncle Alwyn will let her.'

'But she couldn't always have been nice?'

'Well, I verily believe it was all Uncle Alwyn's and grandmamma's
fault.  I know Mark thinks so.'

'When the women of a family acquit a woman it goes for something,'
said Annaple.  'That's not original, my dear, I heard old Lady
Grosmede say so to Janet when she was deliberating over the
invitation, "For a good deal more than Mr. Mark's, at any rate.'"

'Mark is very fond of her--the mother, I mean.  He says when he was a
little fellow her loss was worse to him than even our mother's.'

'Do you remember the catastrophe?'

'Not a bit.  Only when she is petting Basil it strikes me that I have
heard the tones before.  I only remember the time of misery under the
crosspatches grandmamma got for us.'

'Well, it was a splendid cutting of his own throat in Mark,' said
Annaple, 'so it ought to turn out well.'

'I don't know how it is to turn out for Mark,' answered May.  'Oh,
here he comes!'

'Will you come into this set, Annaple?' he asked.  'They want another
couple,' and, as she accepted,  'How do you get on with May's
double?'

'I pity May for having such a double.'

'Don't encourage her by misplaced pity.'

'It's abominable altogether!  I want to fly at somebody!'

'Exhaust your feelings on your racket, and reflect that you see a man
released from bondage.'

'Is that philosophy or high-faluting?' she said in a teasing tone as
the game began.

The Ruthvens had very blue blood in their veins, but as there were
nine of the present generation, they possessed little beyond their
long pedigree; even the head of the family, Lord Ronnisglen, being
forced to live as a soldier, leaving his castle to grouse shooters.
His seven brothers had fared mostly in distant lands as they could,
and his mother had found a home, together with her youngest child, at
Lescombe, where her eldest was the wife of Sir John Delmar.  Lady
Ronnisglen was an invalid, confined to the house, and Lady Delmar had
daughters fast treading on the heels of Annabella, so christened, but
always called Annaple after the old Scottish queens, her ancestors.
She had been May Egremont's chief friend ever since her importation
at twelve years old, and the intimacy had been promoted by her mother
and sister.  Indeed, the neighbourhood had looked on with some
amusement at the competition ascribed to Lady Delmar and to the
wealthy parvenu, Mrs. West, for the heir-presumptive of Bridgefield
Egremont.

Annaple's lightness and dexterity rendered her the best of the lady
tennis-players, and the less practised Ursula found herself defeated
in the match, in spite of a partner whose play was superior to
Mark's, and with whom she shyly walked off to eat ices.

'I see,' said Annaple, 'it is a country-town edition of May.  I
shan't blunder between them again.'

'She will polish,' said Mark, 'but she is not equal to her mother.'

'Whom I have not seen yet.  Ah, there's Mr. Egremont!  Why, he looks
quite renovated!'

'Well he may be!'

'But Mark, not to hurt your feelings, he must have behaved
atrociously.'

'I'm not going to deny it,' said Mark.

'I always did think he looked like it,' said Annaple.

'When have you seen him before?'

'Only once, but it was my admirable sagacity, you understand?  I
always see all the villains in books just on his model.  Oh, but
who's that?  How very pretty!  You don't mean it is she!  Well, she
might be the heroine of anything!'

'Isn't she lovely?'

'And has she been keeping school like Patience on a monument all
these years?  It doesn't seem to have much damaged her damask cheek!'

'It was only daily governessing.  She looks much better than when I
first saw her; and as to the damask--why, that's deepened by the
introduction to old Lady Grosmede that is impending.'

'She is being walked up to the old Spanish duck with the red rag
round her leg to receive her fiat.  What a thing it is to be a
bearded Dowager, and rule one's neighbourhood!'

'I think she approves.  She has made room for her by her side.  Is
she going to catechise her?'

Annaple made an absurd sound of mingled pity and disgust.

'Not that she--my aunt, I mean--need be afraid.  The shame is all on
the other side.'

'And I think Lady Grosmede has too much sense to think the worse of
her for having worked for herself,' added Annaple.  'If it was not
for mother I should long to begin!'

'You?  It's a longing well known to me!--but you!'

'Exactly!  As the Irishman felt blue moulded for want of a bating, so
do I feel fagged out for want of an honest day's work.'

'If one only knew what to turn to,' said Mark so wearily that Annaple
exclaimed,

'We seem to be in the frozen-out state of mind, and might walk up and
down singing "I've got no work to do,"'--to which she gave the well
known intonation.

'Too true,' said he, joining in the hum.

'But I thought you were by way of reading law.'

'One must see more than only "by way of" in these days to do any
good.'

At that moment Basil ran up with a message that Lady Delmar was ready
to go home.

They walked slowly up the terrace and Mark paused as they came near
Mrs. Egremont to say, 'Aunt Alice, here is Miss Ruthven, May's great
friend.'

Annaple met a pleasant smile, and they shook hands, exchanging an
observation or two, while a little way off Lady Grosmede was nodding
her strong old face at Lady Delmar, and saying, 'Tell your mother
I'll soon come and see her, my dear.  That's a nice little innocent
body, lady-like, and thoroughly presentable.  Alwyn Egremont might
have done worse.'

'The only wonder is he did not!' returned Lady Delmar.  'They make
the best of it here.'

'Very good taste of them.  But, now I've seen her, I don't believe
there's anything behind.  Very hard upon the poor young man, though
it was all his doing, his mother says.  I congratulate you that it
had not gone any farther in that quarter.'

'Oh, dear no!  Never dreamt of it.  She is May's friend, that's all.'

Nevertheless Lady Delmar made a second descent in person to hurry
Annaple away.

'Isn't it disgusting?' said May, catching her stepmother's smile.

'You will see a good deal more of the same kind,' said the Canoness;
'I am afraid more mortification is in store for Mark than he guesses.
I wish that girl were more like her mother.'

'Mamma! a girl brought up among umbrella-makers!  Just fancy!  Why,
she has just nothing in her!'

'Don't set Mark against her, May; he might do worse.'

'Her head is a mere tennis ball,' said May, drawing her own higher
than ever, 'and no one would know her from a shop girl.'

'She is young enough,' said the Canoness.  'Don't class me with Lady
Delmar, May--I only say--if--and that I don't think you realise the
change Mark will feel.'

'Better so than sell himself,' muttered May.





CHAPTER XII.
OUT OF WORK.




'I'm seeking the fruit that's nae growing.'--Ballad.


Society recognised the newcomers.  Lady Grosmede's card appeared the
next day, and was followed by showers of others, and everybody asked
everybody 'Have you seen Mrs. Egremont?'

It was well for Alice's happiness even at home that she was a
success.  When Alwyn Egremont had been lashed by his nephew's
indignant integrity into tardy recognition of the wife of his youth,
it had been as if he had been forced to pick up a flower which he had
thrown away.  He had considerable doubts whether it would answer.
First, he reconnoitred, intending, if he found a homely or faded
being, to pension her off; but this had been prevented by her
undeniable beauty and grace, bringing up a rush of such tender
associations as he was capable of.  Yet even then, her position
depended on the impression she might make on those about him, on her
own power of self-assertion, and on her contributing to his comfort
or pleasure.

Of self-assertion Alice had none, only a gentle dignity in her
simplicity, and she was so absolutely devoted to him that he found
his house far more pleasant and agreeable for her presence and
unfailing attention, though still his estimation of her was
influenced more than he owned to himself by that of the world in
general, and the Rectory in particular.

And the Rectory did its part well.  The Canon was not only charmed
with the gentle lady, but felt an atonement due to her; and his wife,
without ever breathing into any ears, save his, the mysterious
adjective 'governessy,' praised her right and left, confiding to all
inquirers the romance of the burnt yacht, the lost bride, and the
happy meeting under Lady Kirkaldy's auspices, with the perfect
respectability of the intermediate career, while such was the
universal esteem for, and trust in herself and the Canon, that she
was fully believed; and people only whispered that probably Alwyn
Egremont had been excused for the desertion more than he deserved.

The subject of all this gossip troubled herself about it infinitely
less than did the good Canoness.  In effect she did not know enough
of the world to think about it at all.  Her cares were of a different
order, chiefly caused by tenderness of conscience, and solicitude to
keep the peace between the two beings whom she best loved.

Two things were in her favour in this latter respect, one that they
saw very little of each other, since Mr. Egremont seldom emerged from
his own rooms till after luncheon; and the other that Ursula's brains
ran to little but lawn-tennis for the ensuing weeks.  To hold a
champion's place at the tournaments, neck and neck with her cousin
Blanche, and defeat Miss Ruthven, and that veteran player, Miss
Basset, was her foremost ambition, and the two cousins would have
practised morning, noon, and night if their mothers would have let
them.  There need have been no fear of Ursula's rebellion about the
Cambridge honours, she never seemed even to think of them, and would
have had no time in the more important competition of rackets.
Indeed, it was almost treated as a hardship that the pair were
forbidden to rush together before twelve o'clock, and that Ursula's
mother insisted on rational home occupation until that time, setting
the example herself by letter-writing, needlework, and sharing in the
music which was a penance to the girl, only enforced by that strong
sense of protecting affection which forbade rebellion.  But Alice
could hope that their performances were pleasant to her husband in
the evening, if only to sleep by, and so she persisted in preparing
for them.

Nuttie's rage for tennis, and apparent forgetfulness of her old life
and aspirations, might be disappointing, but it conduced to make her
mother's task easier than if she had been her original, critical, and
protesting self.  In the new and brilliant surroundings she troubled
herself much less than could have been expected at the failure of her
father, his house, nay, and of the parish itself, in coming up to the
St. Ambrose standard.  How much was owing to mere novelty and
intoxication, how much to a yet unanalysed disappointment, how much
to May's having thrown her upon the more frivolous Blanche, could not
be guessed.  The effect was unsatisfactory to her mother, but a
certain relief, for Nuttie's aid would have been only mischievous in
the household difficulties that weighed on the anxious conscience.
Good servants would not stay at Bridgefield Hall for unexplained
causes, which their mistress believed to be connected with Gregorio,
or with the treasure of a cook-housekeeper over whom she was
forbidden to exercise any authority, and who therefore entirely
neglected all meals which the master did not share with the ladies.
Fortunately, Mr. Egremont came in one day at their luncheon and found
nothing there but semi-raw beef, upon which there was an explosion;
and being by this time convinced that his wife both would and could
minister to his comfort, her dominion was established in the female
department, though, as long as Gregorio continued paramount with his
master, and the stables remained in their former state, it was
impossible to bring matters up to the decorous standard of the
Rectory, and if ever his mistress gave an order he did not approve,
Gregorio overruled it as her ignorance.  In fact, he treated both the
ladies with a contemptuous sort of civility.  Meantime Mr. Egremont
was generally caressing and admiring in his ways towards his wife,
with only occasional bursts of temper when anything annoyed him.  He
was proud of her, gave her a liberal allowance, and only refused to
be troubled; and she was really happy in his affection, for which she
felt a gratitude only too humble in the eyes of her daughter.

They had parties.  Blanche's ambition of tennis courts all over the
lawn was fulfilled, and sundry dinners, which were crosses to Alice,
who had neither faculty nor training for a leader and hostess,
suffered much from the menu, more from the pairing of her guests,
more again in catching her chief lady's eye after, and most of all
from her husband's scowls and subsequent growls and their
consequence, for Ursula broke out, 'It is not fair to blame my
mother.  How should she have all the savoir-faire, or what you may
call it, of Aunt Jane, when she has had no practice?'

'Perhaps, Mrs. Egremont,' he retorted with extreme suavity, 'you will
also attend to your daughter's manners.'  Otherwise he took little
notice of Ursula, viewing her perhaps, as did the neighbourhood, as a
poor imitation of May, without her style, or it may be with a sense
that her tongue might become inconvenient if not repressed.  When he
began to collect sporting guests of his own calibre in the shooting
season, the Canoness quietly advised her sister-in-law to regard them
as gentlemen's parties, and send Ursula down to spend the evening
with her cousins; and to this no objection was made.  Mr. Egremont
wanted his beautiful wife at the head of his table, and his guests
never comported themselves unsuitably before her; but nobody wanted
the unformed girl, and she and Blanche were always happy together.

The chief restraint was when Mark was at home, and that was not
always.  He made sundry visits and expeditions, and was altogether in
an uncomfortable condition of reaction and perplexity as to his
future.  He was a good and conscientious fellow, and had never been
actually idle, but had taken education and life with the easiness of
the prospective heir to a large property; and though he had acquitted
himself creditably, it was with no view of making his powers
marketable.  Though he had been entered at the Temple, it was chiefly
in order to occupy himself respectably, and to have a nominal
profession, so as not to be wholly dependent on his uncle; and all
that he had acquired was the conviction that it would be half a
lifetime, if not a whole one, before the law would afford him a
maintenance.

His father wished him to take Holy Orders with a view to the
reversion of the Rectory, but Mark's estimate of clerical duty and
vocation was just such as to make him shrink from them.  He was
three-and-twenty, an awkward age for all those examinations that
stand as lions in the face of youth intended for almost any sort of
service, and seldom or never to be gagged by interest.  For one
indeed, he went up and failed, and in such a manner as to convince
him that cramming had more to do than general culture with success.

He had a certain consciousness that most people thought another way
open to him, most decidedly his gentle aunt, and perhaps even his
parents.  The matter came prominently before him one day at luncheon,
when, some parochial affairs being on hand and Mr. Egremont out for
the day, Alice, whose free forenoons enabled her to take a share in
church and parish affairs, was there, as well as the curate and his
wife.

These good people were in great commotion about a wedding about to
take place between a young farmer and his delicate first cousin, the
only survivor of a consumptive family.

'"Proputty, proputty,"' quoted the Canon.  'James Johnson is what
they call a warm man.'

'It is a sin and a shame,' said Mrs. Edwards.  'What can they expect?
George Johnson looks strong enough now, but they tell me his brother
undoubtedly died of decline, though they called it inflammation; but
there was tubercular disease.'

'I am afraid it is strong in the family,' said the Canoness, 'they
all have those clear complexions; but I do believe George is heartily
in love with poor little Emily.'

'First cousins ought to be in the table of degrees,' said Mr.
Edwards.

'It is always a question whether the multiplying of prohibitions
without absolute necessity is expedient,' said the Canon.

He spoke quite dispassionately, but the excellent couple were not
remarkable for tact.  Mrs. Edwards gave her husband such a glance of
warning and consternation as violently inclined May to laugh, and he
obediently and hesitatingly began, 'Oh yes, sir, I beg your pardon.
Of course there may be instances,' thereby bringing an intense glow
of carnation into Alice's cheeks, while the Canon, ready for the
occasion, replied, 'And George Johnson considers himself one of them.
He will repair the old moat house, I suppose.'

And his wife, though she would rather have beaten Mrs. Edwards,
demanded how many blankets would be wanted that winter.

The effect of this little episode was that Mark announced to his
father that evening his strong desire to emigrate, an intention which
the Canon combated with all his might.  He was apparently a hale and
hearty man, but he had had one or two attacks of illness that made
him doubt whether he would be long-lived; and not only could he not
bear to have his eldest son out of reach, but he dreaded leaving his
family to such a head as his brother.  Mark scarcely thought the
reasons valid, considering the rapidity of communication with Canada,
but it was not possible to withstand the entreaties of a father with
tears in his eyes; and though he could not bring himself to consent
to preparing to be his father's curate, he promised to do nothing
that would remove him to another quarter of the world, and in two or
three days more, started for Monks Horton to see what advice his
uncle and aunt there could give him; indeed, Lord Kirkaldy's
influence was reckoned on by his family almost as a sure card in the
diplomatic line.

The Kirkaldys were very fond of Mark, and had an odd feeling of being
accountable for the discovery which had changed his prospects.  They
would have done anything for him that they could, but all Lord
Kirkaldy's interest was at the foreign office, or with his fellow-
diplomates, and here he soon found an insuperable bar.  Mark's
education had stood still from the time of Miss Headworth's flight
till his father's second marriage, his energies having been solely
devoted to struggles with the grim varieties of governess purveyed by
his grandmother, and he had thus missed all chance of foundation of
foreign languages, and when once at school, he had shared in the
average English boy's contempt and aversion for the French masters
who outscreamed a whole class.

In consequence, Lord Kirkaldy, an accurate and elegant scholar in
European tongues, besides speaking them with the cosmopolitan ease of
an ambassador's son, was horrified, not only at Mark's pronunciation,
but at his attempts at letter-writing and translation, made with all
the good will in the world, but fit for nothing but to furnish the
good stories which the kind uncle refrained from telling any one but
his wife.  Unluckily, too, a Piedmontese family, some of them not
strong in their English, were on a visit at Monks Horton, and the
dialect in which the old marquis and Mark tried at times to
interchange ideas about pheasants was something fearful.  And as in
the course of a week Mark showed no signs of improvement in
vernacular French or Italian, Lord Kirkaldy's conscience would let
him give no other advice than that his nephew should stick to English
law living still on the allowance his father gave him, and hoping for
one of the chance appointments open to an English barrister of good
family and fair ability.

Of course Mark had gone at once to carry tidings of 'Aunt Alice,' as
he scrupulously called her, to old Miss Headworth, whom his aunt had
continued to visit at intervals.  That good lady had given up her
boarders, having realised enough to provide for her own old age, and
she had joined forces with the Nugents, Mary being very thankful to
have her companionship for Mrs. Nugent, who was growing too blind and
feeble to be satisfactorily left alone all day.

Mark delighted the old ladies by his visits and accounts of their
darling's success and popularity, which he could paint so brightly
that they could not help exulting, even though there might be secret
misgivings as to the endurance of these palmy days.  He was a great
hero in their eyes, and they had too good taste to oppress him with
their admiration, so that he really was more at ease in their little
drawing-room than anywhere at Monks Horton, whither the Italians
could penetrate.  The marchesino spoke English very well, but that
was all the worse for Mark, since it gave such a sense of
inferiority.  He was an intelligent man too, bent on being acquainted
with English industries of all kinds; and thus it was that a party
was organised to see the umbrella factory.  It was conducted by Mr.
Dutton, with whom Lord Kirkaldy, between charities and public
business, had become acquainted.

To Mark's secret shame, this manufacturer spoke French perfectly, and
even got into such a lively conversation with the old marquis about
Cavour, that Lord Kirkaldy begged him to come to dinner and continue
it.  They were all surprised, not only by the details of the
manufacture and the multitude of artizans, male and female, whom it
employed, but by the number of warehouse-clerks whom they found at
work, and who, it appeared, were in correspondence with agencies and
depots in London and all the principal towns in the kingdom.  Gerard
Godfrey was there,--casting looks askance at the young Egremont, whom
he regarded as a kind of robber.

The marchesino asked from what class these young men were taken, and
Mr. Dutton made reply that most of them were sons of professional
men.  If they could obtain a small capital and take shares in the
business they were encouraged to do so, and rose to the headship of
the agencies, obtaining a fair income.

'And you don't exact an examination,' said Mark.

'Except in handwriting and book-keeping,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Poor Mark, you look for your bugbear everywhere!' sighed his aunt.

They went over the Institute, coffee-rooms, eating-rooms, and
lodging-houses, by which the umbrella firm strove to keep their hands
respectable and contented, and were highly pleased with all, most
especially with Mr. Dutton, who, though his name did not come
prominently forward, had been the prime mover and contriver of all
these things, and might have been a wealthier man if he had not
undertaken expenses which he could not charge upon the company.

Gerard Godfrey came in to Mrs. Nugent's that evening in the lowest
spirits.  He had a sister married to a curate in the same county with
Bridgefield, and she had sent him a local paper which 'understood
that a marriage was arranged between Mark de Lyonnais Egremont,
Esquire, and Ursula, daughter of Alwyn Piercefield Egremont, Esquire,
of Bridgefield Egremont,' and he could not help coming to display it
to Miss Headworth in all its impertinence and prematurity.

'Indeed he said nothing to me about it,' said Miss Headworth, 'and I
think he would if it had been true.'

'No doubt he intends it, and is trying to recommend himself through
you,' said Gerard.

'I should not think he needed that,' returned Aunt Ursel, 'though I
should be very glad, I am sure.  He is an excellent young man, and it
is quite the obvious thing.'

'People don't always do the obvious thing,' put in Mary Nugent.

'Certainly it didn't look like it,' said Miss Headworth,' when he
told us about the great annual Hunt Ball at Redcastle that Nuttie and
his sister Blanche are to come out at; he said he did not intend to
go home for it if he could help it.'

'Struggling against fate,' said Miss Nugent.

'The puppy!' burst out Gerard.

Having ascertained the particulars of this same Hunt Ball, Gerard
became possessed with a vehement desire to visit his sister, and so
earnestly solicited a few days' leave of absence that it was granted
to him.  'Poor boy, he may settle down when he has ascertained
what an ass he is,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Ah!' said Mary.  'I thought he was very bad when I saw he had not
changed the green markers for St. Luke's Day.'





CHAPTER XIII.
DETRIMENTALS.




'That tongue of yours at times wags more than charity allows;
 And if you're strong, be merciful, great woman of three cows.'
                                                      J. O. MANGAN.


Nine miles was a severe distance through country lanes in November to
go to a ball; but the Redcastle Hunt Ball was the ball of the year,
uniting all the county magnates; and young ladies were hardly
reckoned as 'come out' till they had appeared there.  Mrs. Egremont's
position would hardly be established till she had been presented to
the notabilities who lived beyond calling intercourse; and her
husband prepared himself to be victimised with an amount of grumbling
that was intended to impress her with the magnitude of the sacrifice,
but which only made her offer to forego the gaiety, and be told that
she would never have any common sense.

So their carriage led the way, and was followed by the Rectory
waggonette containing the ladies and Mark, who had been decisively
summoned home, since his stepmother disliked public balls without a
gentleman in attendance, and his father was not to be detached from
his fireside.

And in a group near the door, got up as elaborately as his powers
could accomplish, stood Gerard Godfrey.  He knew nobody there except
a family in his sister's parish, who had good-naturedly given him a
seat in their fly, and having fulfilled his duty by asking the
daughter to dance, he had nothing to disturb him in watching for the
cynosure whose attraction had led him into these unknown regions,
and, as he remembered with a qualm, on the eve of St. Britius.
However, with such a purpose, one might surely grant oneself a
dispensation from the vigil of a black letter saint.

There at length he beheld the entrance.  There was the ogre himself,
high bred, almost handsome, as long as he was not too closely
scrutinised, and on his arm the well-known figure, metamorphosed by
delicately-tinted satin sheen and pearls, and still more by the
gentle blushing gladness on the fair cheeks and the soft eyes that
used to droop.  Then followed a stately form in mulberry moire and
point lace, leaning on Gerard's more especial abhorrence,--'that
puppy,' who had been the author of all the mischief; and behind them
three girls, one in black, the other two in white, and, what was
provoking, he really could not decide which was Ursula.  The
carefully-dressed hair and stylish evening dress and equipments had
altogether transformed the little homely schoolgirl, so that, though
he was sure that she was not the fair-haired damsel with pale blue
flowers, he did not know how to decide between the white and daisies
and the black and grasses.  Indeed, he thought the two whites most
likely to be sisters, and all the more when the black lace halted to
exchange greetings with some one, and her face put on an expression
so familiar to him, that he started forward and tried to catch her
eye; but in vain, and he suffered agonies of doubt whether she had
been perverted by greatness.

It was some comfort that, when presently a rush of waiters floated
by, she was not with her cousin; but to provoke him still more, as
the daisies neared him, he beheld for a moment in the whirl the queer
smile, half-frightened, half-exultant, which he had seen on Nuttie's
face when swinging sky-high!

When the pause came and people walked about, the black lady stood
talking so near him that he ventured at last on a step forward and an
eager 'Miss Egremont,' but, as she turned, he found himself obliged
to say, 'I beg your pardon.'

'Did you mean my cousin.  We often get mistaken for each other,' said
May civilly.

He brightened.  'I beg your pardon,' he said, 'I knew her at
Micklethwayte.  I am here--quite by accident.  Mrs. Elmore was so
good as to bring me.'

May was rather entertained.  'There's my cousin,' she said, 'Lord
Philip Molyneux is asking her to dance,' and she left him most
unnecessarily infuriated with Lord Philip Molyneux.

A steward introduced him to a dull-looking girl, but fortune favoured
him, for this time he did catch the real Nuttie's eye, and all
herself, as soon as the dance was over, she came up with outstretched
hands, 'Oh Gerard! to think of your being here!  Come to mother!'

And, beautiful and radiant, Mrs. Egremont was greeting him, and there
were ten minutes of delicious exchange of news.  But 'pleasures are
as poppies fled,' Nuttie had no dance to spare, her card was full,
and she had not learnt fashionable effrontery enough to play tricks
with engagements, and just then Mr. Egremont descended on them--'I
wish to introduce you to the Duchess,' he said to his wife; and on
the way he demanded--'Who is that young cub?'

'Gerard Godfrey--an old neighbour.'

'I thought I had seen him racketing about there with Ursula.  I'll
not have those umbrella fellows coming about!'

'Does he really make umbrellas, Nuttie?' asked Blanche, catching her
hand.

'No such thing!' said Nuttie hotly, 'he is in the office.  His father
was a surgeon; his sisters married clergymen!'

'And he came here to meet you,' said Annaple Ruthven.  'Poor fellow,
what a shame it is!  Can't you give him one turn!

'Oh dear!  I'm engaged all through!  To Mark this time.'

'Give him one of the extras!  Throw Mark over to me!  No,' as she
looked at the faces of the two girls, 'I suppose that wouldn't do,
but I'm free this time--I'm not the fashion.  Introduce me; I'll do
my best as consolation.'

Nuttie had just performed the feat, with great shyness, when Mark
appeared, having been sent in quest of his cousin, when her father
perceived that she had hung back.

Poor Gerard led off Miss Ruthven the more gloomily, and could not
help sighing out, 'I suppose that is an engagement!'

'Oh! you believe that impertinent gossip in the paper,' returned
Annaple.  'I wonder they don't contradict it; but perhaps they treat
it with magnificent scorn.'

'No doubt they know that it is only premature.'

'If _they_ means the elders, I daresay they wish it, but we aren't in
France or Italy.'

'Then you don't think, Miss Ruthven, that it will come off?'

'I don't see the slightest present prospect,' said Annaple, unable to
resist the kindly impulse of giving immediate pleasure, though she
knew the prospect might be even slighter for her partner.

However, he 'footed it' all the more lightly and joyously for the
assurance, and the good-natured maiden afterwards made him conduct
her to the tea-room, whither Mark and Nuttie were also tending, and
there all four contrived to get mixed up together; and Nuttie had
time to hear of Monsieur's new accomplishment of going home for Mr.
Dutton's luncheon and bringing it in a basket to the office, before
fate again descended; Mr. Egremont, who had been at the far end of
the room among some congeners, who preferred stronger refreshment,
suddenly heard her laugh, stepped up, and, with a look of thunder
towards her, observed in a low voice, 'Mark, you will oblige me by
taking your cousin back to her mother.'

'The gray tyrant father,' murmured Annaple in sympathy.  'That being
the case, I may as well go back in that direction also.'

This resulted in finding Lady Delmar and the two Mrs. Egremonts
together, comparing notes about the two different roads to Redcastle
from their several homes.

Lady Delmar was declaring that her coachman was the most obstinate
man in existence, and that her husband believed in him to any extent.

'Which way did you come?' she asked.

'By Bankside Lane,' said the Canoness.

'Over Bluepost Bridge!  There, Janet,' said Annaple.

'So much the worse.  I know we shall come to grief over Bluepost
Bridge, and now there will be treble weight to break it down.  I
dreamt it, I tell you, and there's second sight in the family.'

'Yes, but you should tell what you did dream, Janet,' said her
sister.  'She thought Robinson, the coachman, was waltzing with her
over it, and they went into a hole and stuck fast, while the red-flag
traction engineman prodded her with an umbrella till she was all over
blood.  Now, if it had been anything rational, I should have thought
something of her second sight!  I tell her 'twas suggested by--


         "London Bridge is broken down,
          Dance o'er my lady Lee!"'


'Well, I am quite certain those traction-engines will break it some
time or other,' said Lady Delmar.  'I am always trying to get John to
bring it before the magistrates, but he only laughs at me, and
nothing will induce Robinson to go the other way, because they have
just been mending the road on Lescombe Hill!  Annaple, my dear, I
can't allow you another waltz; Mark must excuse you--I am going.  It
is half-past two, and the carriage was ordered at two!  Robinson will
be in a worse temper than ever if we keep him waiting.'

She bore her sister off to the cloak-room, and there, nearly an hour
later, the Egremonts found them still waiting the pleasure of the
implacable Robinson; but what was that in consideration of having
kept her sister from such a detrimental as poor Mark had become?  So
muttered Mr. Egremont, in the satisfaction of having himself, with
gentlemanly severity, intimated the insuperable gulf between Miss
Egremont of Bridgefield and the Man of Umbrellas.

Moreover, his sister-in-law took care that he should hear that the
Duchess of Redcastle had pronounced his wife sweetly pretty and lady-
like, and talked of inviting them for a visit of a few nights.

'A bore,' observed he ungratefully, ''tis as dull as ditchwater.'
But, in truth, though the Canon's family, when in residence, were
intimate with the ducal family, Alwyn Egremont had never been at the
castle since the days of his earliest youth, and he was not quite
prepared to owe his toleration there to his wife's charms, or the
Canoness's patronage of her.

And innocent Alice only knew that everybody had been very kind to
her, and it was only a pity that her husband did not like her to
notice poor Gerard Godfrey.





CHAPTER XIV.
GOING AGEE.




'Gin ye were a brig as auld as me.'--BURNS.


'What's the matter?' exclaimed Mrs. Egremont, waking from a doze,--
'that bridge?'

'Bridge!  Don't be such a fool!  We aren't near it yet.'

The servant, his face looking blurred through the window, came to
explain that the delay was caused by an agricultural engine, which
had chosen this unlucky night, or morning, to travel from one farm to
another.  There was a long delay, while the monster could be heard
coughing frightfully before it could be backed with its spiky
companion into a field so as to let the carriages pass by; and
meantime Mr. Egremont was betrayed into uttering ejaculations which
made poor Nuttie round her eyes in the dark as she sat by his feet on
the back seat, and Alice try to bury her ears in her hood in the
corner.

On they went at last, for about a mile, and then came another sudden
stop--another fierce growl from Mr. Egremont, another apparition of
the servant at the window, saying, in his alert deferential manner,
'Sir, the bridge have broke under a carriage in front.  Lady
Delmar's, sir.  The horse is plunging terrible.'

The door was torn open, and all three, regardless of ball costumes,
precipitated themselves out.

The moon was up, and they saw the Rectory carriage safe on the road
before them, but on the bridge beyond was a struggling mass, dimly
illuminated by a single carriage lamp. Mr. Egremont and the groom
hurried forward where Mark and the Rectory coachman were already
rendering what help they could.  May standing at the horses' heads,
and her mother trying to wrap everybody up, since stay in their
carriages they could not.  Transferring the horses to Nuttie, the two
sisters hurried on towards the scene of action, but Blanche's white
satin boots did not carry her far, and she turned on meeting her
uncle.  He spoke with a briskness and alacrity that made him like
another man in this emergency, as he assured the anxious ladies that
their friends were safe, but that they could not be extricated till
the carriage was lifted from the hole into which it had sunk amid
bricks, stones, and broken timbers.  He sent his own coachman to
assist, as being the stronger man, and, mounting the box, turned and
drove off in quest of further help, at a wayside cottage, or from the
attendants on the engine, whose weight had probably done the
mischief, and prepared the trap for the next comer.

As May came near, her brother made her available by putting the lamp
into her hand, bidding her hold it so as to light those who were
endeavouring to release the horse, which had cleared the portion of
the bridge before the break-down under the brougham, and now lay on
the road, its struggles quelled by a servant at its head.  Nearly the
whole of the hind wheels and most of the door had disappeared on one
side, and, though more was visible on the other, it was impossible to
open the door, as a mass of rubbish lay on it.  Annaple was on this
side, and her voice was heard calling to May in fits of the laughter
which is perhaps near akin to screams--


         '"London bridge is broken down,
           Dance o'er my lady Lee!"


Janet will go in for second-sight ever after.  Yes, she's all right,
except a scratch from the glass, and that I'm sitting on her more or
less.  How are they getting on?'  'The horse is all but out.  Not
hurt, they think.  Here's another man come to help--a gentleman--my
dear, it is your partner, Nuttie's umbrella man.'  'Oh, making it
complete--hopes, Janet--I'm sorry, but I can't help squashing you!
I can't help subsiding on you!  What is it now?' as the lamp-light
vanished.

'They are looking for something to make levers of,' returned May;
'these wooden rails are too rotten.'

'Can't they get us through the window?' sighed a muffled voice.

'Not unless we could be elongated, like the Hope of the Katzekopfs.'

'We shall manage now,' cried Mark; 'we have found some iron bars to
the hatch down there.  But you must prepare for a shock or two before
you can be set free.'

The two gentlemen and three servants strove and struggled, hoisted
and pushed, to the tune of suppressed sounds, half of sobs, half of
laughter, till at last the carriage was heaved up sufficiently to be
dragged backwards beyond the hole; but even then it would not stand,
for the wheels on the undermost side were crushed, neither could
either door be readily opened, one being smashed in, and the other
jammed fast.  Annaple, however, still tried to keep up her own
spirits and her sister's, observing that she now knew how to
sympathise with Johnnie's tin soldiers in their box turned upside
down.

Two sturdy labourers here made their appearance, having been roused
in the cottage and brought back by Mr. Egremont, and at last one door
was forced open by main force, and the ladies emerged, Annaple,
helping her sister, beginning some droll thanks, but pausing as she
perceived that Lady Delmar's dress was covered with blood.

'My dear Janet.  This is worse than I guessed.  Why did you not
speak?'

'It is not much,' said the poor lady, rather faintly.  'My neck--'

The elder ladies came about her, and seated her on cushions, where,
by the light of May's lamp, Alice, who had been to an ambulance class
at Micklethwayte, detected the extent of the cut, extracted a
fragment of glass, and staunched the bleeding with handkerchiefs and
strips of the girls' tulle skirts, but she advised her patient to be
driven at once to a surgeon to secure that no morsel of glass
remained.  Mr. Egremont, gratified to see his wife come to the front,
undertook to drive her back to Redcastle.  Indeed, they must return
thither to cross by the higher bridge.  'You will go with me,'
entreated Lady Delmar, holding Alice's hand; and the one hastily
consigning Nuttie to her aunt's care, the other giving injunctions
not to alarm her mother to Annaple, who had declared her intention of
walking home, the two ladies went off under Mr. Egremont's escort.

Just then it was discovered that the Delmar coachman, Robinson, had
all this time been lying insensible, not dead, for he moaned, but
apparently with a broken leg, if nothing worse.  Indeed, the men had
known it all along, but, until the ladies had been rescued, nothing
had been possible but to put his cushion under his head and his rug
over him.  The ladies were much shocked, and Mrs. William Egremont
decided that he must be laid at the bottom of the waggonette, and
that she would take him straight to the hospital.

They were only a mile and a half from Lescombe, and it was pronounced
safe to cross on foot by the remains of the bridge, so that Annaple,
who had a pair of fur boots, had already decided on going home on
foot.  The other girls wanted to accompany her, and, as May and
Nuttie both had overshoes, they were permitted to do so, and desired
to go to bed, and wait to be picked up by the waggonette, which must
return to Bridgefield by the Lescombe road.  Blanche, having a
delicate throat, was sentenced to go with her stepmother.  Mark
undertook to ride the horse through the river, and escort the three
girls, and Gerard Godfrey also joined them.  The place where he was
staying lay a couple of miles beyond Lescombe, and when Mrs. Elmore's
fly had been met and turned back by Mr. Egremont, he had jumped off
to render assistance, and had done so effectively enough to win
Mark's gratitude.

It was by this time about half-past five, as was ascertained by the
light of the waning moon, the carriage-lamp having burnt out.  It was
a fine frosty morning, and the moon was still powerful enough to
reveal the droll figures of the girls.  May had a fur cloak, with the
hood tied over her head by Mrs. Egremont's lace shawl; Nuttie had a
huge white cloud over her head, and a light blue opera cloak; Annaple
had 'rowed herself in a plaidie' like the Scotch girl she was, and
her eyes flashed out merrily from its dark folds.  They all disdained
the gentlemen's self-denying offers of their ulsters, and only Nuttie
consented to have the carriage-rug added to her trappings, and
ingeniously tied on cloak-fashion with her sash by Gerard.  He and
Mark piloted the three ladies over the narrow border of the hole,
which looked a very black open gulf.  Annaple had thanked the men,
and bidden them come to Lescombe the next day to be paid for their
assistance.  Then they all stood to watch Mark ride through the
river, at the shallowest place, indicated both by her and the
labourers.  It was perfectly fordable, so Annaple's were mock heroics
when she quoted--


         'Never heavier man and horse
          Stemmed a midnight torrent's force.'


And Nuttie responded in a few seconds--


         'Yet through good heart and our Ladye's grace
          Full soon he gained the landing place.'


They were both in high spirits, admiring each other's droll
appearance, and speculating on the ghosts they might appear to any
one who chanced to look out of window.  Annaple walked at the horse's
head, calling him poor old Robin Hood, and caressing him, while
Gerard and Nuttie kept together.

May began to repent of her determination to walk; Lescombe seemed
very far off, and she had an instinct that she was an awkward fifth
wheel.  Either because Robin Hood walked too fast for her weary
limbs, or because she felt it a greater duty to chaperon Nuttie than
Annaple, she fell back on the couple in the rear, and was rather
surprised at the tenor of their conversation.

This 'umbrella man' was telling of his vicar's delight in the
beautiful chalice veil that had been sent by Mrs. Egremont, and
Nuttie was communicating, as a secret she ought not to tell, that
mother was working a set of stoles, and hoped to have the white ones
ready by the dedication anniversary; also that there was a box being
filled for the St. Ambrose Christmas tree.  They were trying to get
something nice for each of the choir boys and of the old women; and
therewith, to May's surprise, this youth, whom she regarded as a sort
of shopman, fell into full narration of all the events of a highly-
worked parish,--all about the choral festival, and the guilds, and
the choir, and the temperance work.  A great deal of it was a strange
language to May, but she half-disapproved of it, as entirely unlike
the 'soberness' of Bridgefield ways, and like the Redcastle vicar,
whom her father commonly called 'that madman.'  Still, she had a
practical soul for parish work, and could appreciate the earnestness
that manifested itself, and the exertions made for people of the
classes whom she had always supposed too bad or else too well off to
come under clerical supervision.  And her aunt and cousin and this
young man all evidently had their hearts in it!  For Nuttie--though
her new world had put the old one apparently aside--had plunged into
all the old interests, and asked questions eagerly, and listened to
their answers, as if Micklethwayte news was water to the thirsty.
The two were too happy to meet, and, it must be confessed, had not
quite manners enough, to feel it needful to include in their
conversation the weary figure that plodded along at a little distance
from them, hardly attending to the details of their chatter, yet
deriving new notions from it of the former life of Ursula and her
mother, matters which she had hitherto thought beneath her attention,
except so far as to be thankful that they had emerged from it so
presentable.  That it was a more actively religious, and perhaps a
more intellectual one than her own, she had thought impossible, where
everything must be second-rate.  And yet, when her attention had
wandered from an account of Mr. Dutton's dealings with a refractory
choir boy bent on going to the races, she found a discussion going on
about some past lectures upon astronomy, and Nuttie vehemently
regretting the not attending two courses promised for the coming
winter upon electricity and on Italian art, and mournfully observing,
'We never go to anything sensible here.'

May at first thought, 'Impertinent little thing,' and felt affronted,
but then owned to herself that it was all too true.  Otherwise there
was hardly anything said about the contrast with Nuttie's present
life; Gerard knew already that the church atmosphere was very
different, and with the rector's daughter within earshot, he could
not utter his commiseration, nor Nuttie her regrets.

Once there was a general start, and the whole five came together at
the sight of a spectrally black apparition, with a huge tufted head
on high, bearing down over a low hedge upon them.  Nobody screamed
except Nuttie, but everybody started, though the next moment it was
plain that they were only chimney-sweepers on their way.

'Retribution for our desire to act ghosts!' said Annaple, when the
sable forms had been warned of the broken bridge.  'Poor May, you are
awfully tired!  Shouldn't you like a lift in their cart?'

'Or I could put you up on Robin Hood,' said Mark.

'Thank you, I don't think I could stick on.  Is it much farther?'

'Only up the hill and across the park,' said Annaple, still cheerily.

'Take my arm, old woman,' said Mark, and then there was a pause,
before Annaple said in an odd voice, 'You may tell her, Mark.'

'Oh, Annaple!  Mark! is it so?' cried May joyously, but under her
breath; and with a glance to see how near the other couple were.

'Yes,' said Annaple between crying and laughing.  'Poor Janet, she'll
think we have taken a frightfully mean advantage of her, but I am
sure I never dreamt of such a thing; and the queer thing is, that
Mark says she put it into his head!'

'No, no,' said Mark; 'you know better than that--'

'Why, you told me you only found it out when she began to trample on
the fallen--'

'I told you I had only understood my own heart.'

'And I said very much the same--she made me so angry you see.'

'I can't but admire your motives!' said May, exceedingly rejoiced all
the time, and ready to have embraced them both, if it had not been
for the spectators behind.  'In fact, it was opposition you both
wanted.  I wonder how long you would have gone on not finding it out,
if all had been smooth?'

'The worst of it is,' said Annaple, 'that I'm afraid it is a very bad
thing for Mark.'

'Not a bit of it,' retorted he.  'It is the only thing that could
have put life into my work, or made me care to find any!  And find it
I will now!  Must we let the whole world in to know before I have
found it, Annaple?'

'I could not but tell my mother,' said Annaple.  'It would come out
in spite of me, even if I wished to keep it back.'

'Oh yes!  Lady Ronnisglen is a different thing,' said Mark.  'Just as
May here is--'

'And she will say nothing, I know, till we are ready--my dear old
minnie,' said Annaple.  'Only, Mark, do pray have something definite
to hinder Janet with if there are any symptoms of hawking her
commodity about.'

'I _will_,' said Mark.  'If we could only emigrate!'

'Ah, if we could!' said Annaple.  'Ronald is doing so well in New
Zealand, but I don't think my mother could spare me.  She could not
come out, and she must be with me, wherever I am.  You know--don't
you--that I am seven years younger than Alick.  I was a regular
surprise, and the old nurse at Ronnisglen said 'Depend upon it, my
Leddy, she is given to be the comfort of your old age.'  And I have
always made up my mind never to leave her.  I don't think she would
get on with Janet or any of them without me, so you'll have to take
her too, Mark.'

'With all my heart,' he answered.  'And, indeed, I have promised my
father not to emigrate.  I must, and will, find work at hand, and
wake a home for you both!'

'But you will tell papa at once?' said May.  'It will hurt him if you
do not.'

'You are right, May; I knew it when Annaple spoke of her mother, but
there is no need that it should go further.'

The intelligence had lightened the way a good deal, and they were at
the lodge gates by this time.  Gerard began rather ruefully to take
leave; but Annaple, in large-hearted happiness and gratitude, begged
him to come and rest at the house, and wait for daylight, and this he
was only too glad to do, especially as May's secession had made the
conversation a little more personal.

Nuttie was in a certain way realising for the first time what her
mother's loyalty had checked her in expressing, even if the tumult of
novelties had given her full time to dwell on it.

'Everybody outside is kind,' she said to Gerard; 'they are nice in a
way, and good, but oh! they are centuries behind in church matters
and feeling, just like the old rector.'

'I gathered that; I am very sorry for you.  Is there no one fit to be
a guide?'

'I don't know,' said Nuttie.  'I didn't think--I must, somehow,
before Lent.'

'There is Advent close at hand,' he said gravely.  'If you could only
be at our mission services, we hope to get Father Smith!'

'Oh, if only I could!  But mother never likes to talk about those
kind of things.  She says our duty is to my father.'

'Not the foremost.'

'No, she would not say that.  But oh, Gerard! if he should be making
her worldly!'

'It must be your work to hinder it,' he said, looking at her
affectionately.

'Oh, Gerard! but I'm afraid I'm getting so myself.  I have thought a
great deal about lawn-tennis, and dress, and this ball,' said Nuttie.
'Somehow it has never quite felt real, but as if I were out on a
visit.'

'You are in it, but not of it,' said Gerard admiringly.

'No, I'm not so good as that!  I like it all--almost all.  I thought
I liked it better till you came and brought a real true breath of
Micklethwayte.  Oh! if I could only see Monsieur's dear curly head
and bright eyes!'

This had been the tenor of the talk, and these were the actual last
words before the whole five--just in the first streaks of dawn--
coalesced before the front door, to be admitted by a sleepy servant;
Mark tied up the horse for a moment, while Annaple sent the man to
waken Sir John Delmar, and say there had been a slight accident, but
no one was much hurt; and, as they all entered the warm, dimly-
lighted hall, they were keenly sensible that they had been dancing or
walking all night.

Rest in the chairs which stood round the big hearth and smouldering
wood-fire was so extremely comfortable, as they all dropped down,
that nobody moved or spoke, or knew how long it was before there was
a voice on the stairs--'Eh? what's this, Annaple?  An accident?
Where's Janet?' and a tall burly figure, candle in hand, in a
dressing-gown and slippers, was added to the group.

'Janet will be at home presently, I hope,' said Annaple, 'but she got
a cut with some broken glass, and we sent her round by Dr. Raymond's
to get it set to rights.  Oh, John! we came to grief on Bluepost
Bridge after all, and I'm afraid Robinson has got his leg broken!'

Sir John was a good-natured heavy man, whose clever wife thought for
him in all that did not regard horses, dogs, and game.  He looked
perfectly astounded, and required to have all told him over again
before he could fully take it in.  Then he uttered a suppressed
malediction on engines, insisted that all his impromptu guests should
immediately eat, drink, and sleep, and declared his intention of
going off at once to Redcastle to see about his wife.

The two gentlemen were committed to the charge of the butler, and
Annaple took Nuttie and May to her sister's dressing-room, where she
knew she should find fire and tea, and though they protested that it
was not worth while, she made them undress and lie down in a room
prepared for them in the meantime.  It was a state chamber, with a
big bed, far away from the entrance, shuttered and curtained up, and
with double doors, excluding all noise.  The two cousins lay down,
Nuttie dead asleep almost before her head touched the pillow, while
May was aching all over, declaring herself far too much tired and
excited to sleep; and, besides that it was not worth while, for she
should be called for in a very short time.  And she remained
conscious of a great dread of being roused, so that when she heard
her cousin moving about the room, she insisted that they had scarcely
lain down, whereupon Nuttie laughed, declared that she had heard a
great clock strike twelve before she moved, and showed daylight
coming in through the shutters.

'We can't lie here any longer, I suppose,' said May, sitting up
wearily; 'and yet what can we put on?  It makes one shiver to think
of going down to luncheon in a ball dress!'

'Besides, mine is all torn to pieces to make bandages,' said Nuttie.
'I must put on the underskirt and my cloak again.'

'Or Annaple might lend us something.  I must get out somehow to know
how poor Lady Delmar is, and what has become of everybody.  Ring,
Ursula, please, and lie down till somebody comes.'

The bell was answered by a maid, who told them that my lady had been
brought home by Mr. and Mrs. Egremont about an hour after their
arrival.  She was as well as could be expected, and there was no
cause for anxiety.  Mr. and Mrs. Egremont had then gone on to
Bridgefield, leaving word that Mrs. William Egremont and Miss Blanche
were sleeping at Redcastle, having sent home for their own dresses
and the young ladies', and would call for the rest of their party on
the way.  Indeed, a box for the Miss Egremonts had been deposited by
the Canon from the pony-carriage an hour ago, and was already in the
dressing-room; but Miss Ruthven would not have them disturbed.  Miss
Ruthven,--oh yes, she was up, she had not been in bed at all.





CHAPTER XV.
A CASTLE OF UMBRELLAS.




No, Annaple Ruthven could not have slept, even if she had had time.
Her first care had been to receive her sister, who had been met at
the entrance of Redcastle by her husband.  There had been profuse
offers of hospitality to Mr. and Mrs. Egremont, the latter of whom
looked tired out, and offers of sending messengers to Bridgefield;
but Mr. Egremont would not hear of them, and every one suspected that
he would not incur the chance of rising without Gregorio and all his
appliances.

By the time they were disposed of, and Lady Delmar safe in bed, it
was time to repair to her mother's room, so as to prevent her from
being alarmed.  Lady Ronnisglen was English born.  She was not by any
means the typical dowager.  Her invalid condition was chiefly owing
to an accident, which had rendered her almost incapable of walking,
and she was also extremely susceptible of cold, and therefore hardly
ever went out; but there was so much youth and life about her at
sixty-three that she and Annaple often seemed like companion sisters,
and her shrewd, keen, managing eldest-born like their mother.

Annaple lay down beside her on her bed in the morning twilight, and
gave her the history of the accident in playful terms indeed.
Annaple could never help that, but there was something in her voice
that made Lady Ronnisglen say, when satisfied about Janet's hurt,
'You've more to say, Nannie dear.'

'Yes, minnie mine, I walked home with Mark Egremont.'

'And--?'

'Yes, minnie.  He is going to work and make a home--a real, true,
homely home for you and me.'

'My child, my child, you have not hung the old woman about the poor
boy's neck!'

'As if I would have had him if he did not love her, and make a mother
of her!'

'But what is he going to do, Nan?  This is a very different thing
from--'

'Very different from Janet's notions!' and they both laughed, the
mother adding to the mirth by saying--

'Poor Janet, congratulating herself that no harm had been done, and
that you had never taken to one another!'

'Did she really now?'

'Oh yes, only yesterday, and I bade her not crow too soon, for I
thought I saw symptoms--'

'You dear darling minnie!  Think of that!  Before we either of us
knew it, and when he is worth ever so much than he was before!  Not
but that I am enraged when people say he has acted nobly, just as if
there had been anything else for him to do!'

'I own that I am glad he has proved himself.  I was afraid he would
be dragged in the way of his uncle.  Don't be furious, Nannie.  Not
at all into evil, but into loitering; and I should like to know what
are his prospects now.'

'Well, mother, I don't think he has any.  But he means to have.  And
not a word is to be said to anybody except you and his father and May
till he has looked over the top of the wall, and seen his way.  We
need not bring Janet down on us till then.'

'I must see him, my dear.  Let me see him before he goes away.  He
always has been a very dear lad, a thoroughly excellent right-minded
fellow.  Only I must know what he means to do, and whether there is
any reasonable chance of employment or fixed purpose.'

Lady Ronnisglen's maid here arrived with her matutinal cup of tea;
and Annaple, beginning to perceive that she was very stiff, went off
in hopes that her morning toilette would deceive her hardworked
little frame into believing it had had a proper night's rest.

She was quite ready to appear at the breakfast table, though her
eldest niece, a long-haired, long-limbed girl, considerably the
bigger of the two, was only too happy to preside over the cups.  All
the four young people were in the greatest state of excitement,
welcoming, as the heroes of the night, Mark and Mr. Godfrey, and
clamouring to be allowed to walk down after breakfast with their
father and the gentlemen to see the scene of the catastrophe and the
remains of the carriage and the bridge.

Sir John made a courteous reference to the governess, but there was a
general sense that the cat was away, and presently there was a rush
upstairs to prepare for the walk.  Annaple had time in the course of
all the bustle, while the colour came back to her cheeks for a
moment, to tell Mark that her mother had been all that was good, and
wanted to see him.

He must manage to stay till after eleven o'clock; she could not be
ready before.  Then he might come to her sitting-room, which, as well
as her bedroom, was on the ground floor.

Mark had to work off his anxiety by an inspection of the scene of the
disaster and a circumstantial explanation of the details to the young
Delmars, who crowded round him and Mr. Godfrey, half awed, half
delighted, and indeed the youngest--a considerable tomboy--had nearly
given the latter the opportunity of becoming a double hero by
tumbling through the broken rail, but he caught her in time, and she
only incurred from Sir John such a scolding as a great fright will
produce from the easiest of fathers.

Afterwards Mark put Gerard on the way to his brother-in-law's living,
asking him on the road so many questions about the umbrella business
that the youth was not quite sure how to take it, and doubted whether
the young swell supposed that he could talk of nothing else; but his
petulance was mitigated when he was asked, 'Supposing a person wished
to enter the business, to whom should he apply?'

'Do you know any one who wishes for anything of the kind?' he asked.
'Are you making inquiries for any one?' and on a hesitating
affirmation, 'Because I know there is an opening for a man with
capital just at present.  Dutton won't advertise--'tis so risky; and
he wants some knowledge of a person's antecedents, and whether he is
likely to go into it in a liberal, gentlemanly spirit, with good
principles, you see, such as would not upset all we are doing for the
hands.'

'What amount of capital do you mean?'

'Oh, from five hundred to a thousand!  Or more would not come amiss.
If I only had it!  What it would be to conduct an affair like that on
true principles!  But luck is against me every way.'

Mark was at the sitting-room door as the four quarters began to
strike in preparation for eleven, but Lady Ronnisglen had been in her
chair for nearly half-an-hour, having been rapid and nervous enough
to hurry even the imperturbable maid, whom Annaple thought incapable
of being hastened.  She was a little slight woman, with delicate
features and pale complexion, such as time deals with gently, and her
once yellow hair now softened with silver was turned back in bands
beneath the simple net cap that suited her so well.  There was a soft
yet sparkling look about her as she held out her hands and exclaimed,
'Ah, Master Mark, what mischief have you been doing?'

Mark came and knelt on one knee beside her and said: 'Will you let me
work for you both, Lady Ronnisglen?  I will do my best to find some.'

'Ah! that is the point, my dear boy.  I should have asked and wished
for definite work, if you had come to me before that discovery of
yours; and now it is a mere matter of necessity.'

'Yes,' said Mark; then, with some hesitation, he added: 'Lady
Ronnisglen, do you care whether I take to what people call a
gentleman's profession?  I could, of course, go on till I am called
to the bar, and then wait for something to turn up; but that would be
waiting indeed!  Then in other directions I've taken things easy, you
see, till I'm too old for examinations.  I failed in the only one
that was still open to me.  Lord Kirkaldy tried me for foreign office
work, and was appalled at my blunders.  I'm not fit for a parson.'

'I should have thought you were.'

'Not I,' said Mark.  'I'm not up to the mark there.  I couldn't say
honestly that I was called to it.  I wish I could, for it would be
the easiest way out of it; but I looked at the service, and I can't.
There--that's a nice confession to come to you with!  I can't think
how I can have been so impudent.'

'Mark, you are a dear good lad.  I respect and honour you ever so
much more than before all this showed what stuff was in you!  But the
question is, What's to be done?  My child is verily the "penniless
lass with a high pedigree," for she has not a poor thousand to call
her own.'

'And I have no right to anything in my father's lifetime, though I
have no doubt he would give me up my share of my mother's portion--
about 3000.  Now this is what has occurred to me: In the place where
I found my uncle's wife--Micklethwayte, close to Monks Horton--
there's a great umbrella factory, with agencies everywhere.  There
are superior people belonging to it.  I've seen some of them, and
I've been talking to the young fellow who helped us last night, who
is in the office.  I find that to go into the thing with such capital
as I might hope for, would bring in a much larger and speedier return
than I could hope for any other way, if only my belongings would set
aside their feelings.  And you see there are the Kirkaldys close by
to secure her good society.'

Lady Ronnisglen put out her transparent-looking, black-mittened hand,
and gave a little dainty pat to his arm.  'I like to see a man in
earnest,' said she.  Her little Skye terrier was seized with jealousy
at her gesture, and came nuzzling in between with his black nose.
'Mull objects!' she said, smiling; but then, with a graver look, 'And
so will your father.'

'At first,' said Mark; 'but I think he will give way when he has had
time to look at the matter, and sees how good you are.  That will
make all the difference.'

So Annaple, who had been banished for a little while, was allowed to
return, and mother, daughter, and lover built themselves a little
castle of umbrellas, and bestowed a little arch commiseration on poor
Lady Delmar; who, it was agreed, need know nothing until something
definite was arranged, since Annaple was clearly accountable to no
one except her mother.  She would certainly think the latter part of
her dream only too well realised, and consider that an unfair
advantage had been taken of her seclusion in her own room.  In spite
of all loyal efforts to the contrary, Mark, if he had been in a frame
of mind to draw conclusions, would have perceived that the prospect
of escaping from the beneficent rule of Lescombe was by no means
unpleasant to Lady Ronnisglen.  The books that lay within her reach
would hardly have found a welcome anywhere else in the house.  Sir
John was not brilliant, and his wife had turned her native wits to
the practical rather than the intellectual line, and had quite enough
to think of in keeping up the dignities of Lescombe with a large
family amid agricultural difficulties.

Annaple remembered at last that she ought to go and look after her
guests, assisted therein by the pleasure of giving May a hearty kiss
and light squeeze, with a murmur that 'all was right.'

She brought them downstairs just as the gong was sounding, and the
rush of girls descending from the schoolroom, and Lady Ronnisglen
being wheeled across the hall in her chair.  Nuttie, who had expected
to see a gray, passive, silent old lady like Mrs. Nugent, was quite
amazed at the bright, lively face and voice that greeted the son-in-
law and grandchildren, May and herself, congratulating these two on
having been so well employed all the morning, and observing that she
was afraid her Nannie could not give so good an account of herself.

'Well,' said Sir John, 'I am sure she looks as if she found plodding
along the lanes as wholesome as sleeping in her bed!  Nan Apple-
cheeks, eh?'

Whereupon Annaple's cheeks glowed all the more into resemblance of
the baby-name which she had long ceased to deserve; but May could see
the darkness under her eyes, betraying that it was only excitement
that drove away fatigue.

Sir John had not gone far in his circumstantial description of the
injuries to his unfortunate carriage when the Canon arrived, with his
wife and Blanche.  Mark would have given worlds in his impatience to
have matters settled between the two parents then and there; but Lady
Ronnisglen had already warned him that this would not be possible,
and assured him that it would be much wiser to prepare his father
beforehand.

Then he fixed his hopes on a solitary drive with his father back in
the pony carriage, but he found himself told off to take that home,
and had to content himself with May as a companion.  Nor was his
sister's mode of receiving the umbrella plan reassuring.  She had
smiled too often with her stepmother over Nuttie's having been
brought up among umbrellas to be ready to accept the same lot for her
brother and her friend, and she was quite sure that her father would
never consent.  'An Egremont an umbrella-maker! how horrible!  Just
fancy seeing Dutton, Egremont and Co. on the handle of one's
umbrella!'

'Well, you need not patronise us,' said Mark.

'But is it possible that Lady Ronnisglen did not object?' said May.

 She seemed to think it preferable to driving pigs in the Texas, like
her son Malcolm.'

'Yes, but then that _was_ the Texas.'

'Oh May, May, I did not think you were such a goose!'

'I should have thought the folly was in not being patient.  Stick to
your profession, and something must come in time.'

'Ay, and how many men do you think are sticking to it in that hope?
No, May, 'tis not real patience to wear out the best years of my life
and hers in idleness, waiting for something not beneath an Egremont
to do!'

'But is there nothing to do better than that?'

'Find it for me, May.'





CHAPTER XVI.
INFRA DIG.




'Till every penny which she told,
 Creative Fancy turned to gold.'--B. LLOYD.


The Blueposts Bridge had produced a good deal of effect.  Ursula
Egremont in special seemed to herself to have been awakened from a
strange dream, and to have resumed her real nature and affections.
She felt as if she would give all her partners at the ball for one
shake of Monsieur's fringed paws; her heart yearned after Aunt Ursel
and Miss Mary; she longed after the chants of the choir; and when she
thought of the effort poor Gerard Godfrey had made to see her, she
felt him a hero, and herself a recreant heroine, who had well-nigh
been betrayed into frivolity and desertion of him, and she registered
secret resolutions of constancy.

She burned to pour out to her mother all the Micklethwayte tidings,
and all her longings to be there; but when the Rectory party set her
down at the door, the footman, with a look of grave importance,
announced that Mr. Egremont was very unwell.  'Mr. Gregory thinks he
has taken a chill from the effect of exposure, sir, and Dr. Hamilton
has been sent for.'

The Canon and his wife both got out on this intelligence, and Mrs.
Egremont was summoned to see them.  She came, looking more frightened
than they thought the occasion demanded, for she was appalled by the
severe pain in the head and eyes; but they comforted her by assuring
her that her husband had suffered in the same manner in the spring,
and she saw how well he had recovered; and then telling Nuttie to
bring word what the doctor's report was, and then spend the evening
at the Rectory, they departed, while poor Nuttie only had one kiss,
one inquiry whether she were rested, before her mother fled back to
the patient.

Nor did she see her again till after the doctor's visit, and then it
was only to desire her to tell her uncle that the attack was
pronounced to be a return of the illness of last spring, and that it
would be expedient to go abroad for the winter.

Go abroad!  It had always been a vision of delight to Nuttie, and she
could not be greatly concerned at the occasion of it; but she did not
find the Rectory in a condition to converse and sympathise.  Blanche
was lying down with a bad headache.  The Edwardses and a whole party
of semi-genteel parish visitors had come in to inquire about the
accident, and had to be entertained with afternoon tea; and May,
though helping her stepmother to do her devoir towards them, seemed
more preoccupied than ever.

As indeed she was, for she knew that Mark was putting his fate to the
touch with his father in the study.

The Canon heard the proposal with utter consternation and dismay at
the perverseness of the two young people, who might have been engaged
any time these two years with the full approbation of their families,
and now chose the very moment when every one was rejoicing at their
freedom.

'When a young man has got into a pickle,' he said, 'the first thing
is to want to be married!'

'Exactly so, sir, to give him a motive for getting out of the pickle.
'

'Umbrellas!  I should like to hear what your grandfather would have
said!'

'These are not my grandfather's days, sir.'

'No indeed!  There was nothing to do but to give a hint to old Lord
de Lyonnais, and he could get you put into any berth you chose.
Interest was interest in those days!  I don't see why Kirkaldy can't
do the same.'

'Not unless I had foreign languages at my tongue's end.'

Whereat the Canon groaned, and Mark had to work again through all the
difficulties in the way of the more liberal professions; and the
upshot was that his father agreed to drive over to Lescombe the next
day and see Lady Ronnisglen.  He certainly had always implicitly
trusted his son's veracity, but he evidently thought that there must
have been much warping of the imagination to make the young man
believe the old Scottish peeress to have consented to her daughter's
marrying into an umbrella factory.

Nuttie was surprised and gratified that both Mark and May put her
through an examination on the habits of Micklethwayte and the
position of Mr. Godfrey, which she thought was entirely due to the
favourable impression Gerard had produced, and she felt
proportionably proud of him when Mark pronounced him a very nice
gentlemanly young fellow.  She could not think why her uncle, with
more testiness than she had ever seen in that good-natured dignitary,
ordered May not to stand chattering there, but to give them some
music.

The Canon drove to Lescombe the next day under pretext of inquiring
after Lady Delmar, and then almost forgot to do so, after he had
ascertained that she was a prisoner to her dressing-room, and that
Sir John was out shooting.  The result of his interview filled him
with astonishment.  Lady Ronnisglen having had a large proportion of
sons to put out in life on very small means had learnt not to be
fastidious, and held that the gentleman might ennoble the vocation
instead of the vocation debasing the gentleman.  Moreover, in her
secret soul she felt that her daughter Janet's manoeuvres were far
more truly degrading than any form of honest labour; and it was very
sore to her to have no power of preventing them, ridicule, protest,
or discouragement being all alike treated as the dear mother's old-
world unpractical romance.  It galled her likewise that she could
perceive the determination that Annaple Ruthven should be disposed of
before Muriel Delmar came on the scene; and the retiring to ever so
small a home of their own had been discussed between mother and
daughter, and only put aside because of the pain it would give their
honest-hearted host and their hostess, who really loved them.

Thus she did her best to persuade her old friend that there were few
openings for a man of his son's age, and that if the Micklethwayte
business were all that Mark imagined, it was not beneath the
attention even of a well-born gentleman in these modern days, and
would involve less delay than any other plan, except emigration,
which was equally dreaded by each parent.  Delay there must be, not
only in order to ascertain the facts respecting the firm, but to
prove whether Mark had any aptitude for the business before involving
any capital in it.  However, every other alternative would involve
much longer and more doubtful waiting.  And altogether the Canon felt
that if a person of Lady Ronnisglen's rank did not object, he had
scarcely a right to do so.  However, both alike reserved consent
until full inquiry should have been made.

The Canon wrote to Lord Kirkaldy, and in the meantime wanted to
gather what information he could from his sister-in-law; but he found
her absolutely engrossed as her husband's nurse, and scarcely
permitted to snatch a meal outside the darkened room.  He groaned and
grumbled at his brother's selfishness, and declared that her health
would be damaged, while his shrewder lady declared that nothing would
be so good for her as to let Alwyn find her indispensable to his
comfort, even beyond Gregorio.

This absorption of her mother fell hard on Ursula, especially when
the first two days' alarm was over, and her mother was still kept an
entire prisoner, as companion rather than nurse.  As before, the
rheumatic attack fastened upon the head and eyes, causing lengthened
suffering, and teaching Mr. Egremont that he had never had so gentle,
so skilful, so loving, or altogether so pleasant a slave as his wife,
the only person except Gregorio whom, in his irritable state, he
would tolerate about him.

His brother could not be entirely kept out, but was never made
welcome, more especially when he took upon himself to remonstrate on
Alice's being deprived of air, exercise, and rest.  He got no thanks;
Mr. Egremont snarled, and Alice protested that she was never tired,
and needed nothing.  The Rectory party were, excepting the schoolroom
girls, engaged to make visits from home before going into residence
at Redcastle, and were to begin with Monks Horton.  They offered to
escort Ursula to see her great aunt at Micklethwayte--Oh joy of
joys!--but when the Canon made the proposition in his brother's room,
Mr. Egremont cut it short with 'I'm not going to have her running
after those umbrella-mongers.'

The Canon's heart sank within him at the tone, and he was really very
sorry for his niece, who was likely to have a fortnight or three
weeks of comparative solitude before her father was ready to set out
on the journey.

'Can't she help you, in reading to her father--or anything?' he asked
Alice, who had come out with him into the anteroom to express her
warm thanks for the kind proposal.

She shook her head.  'He would not like it, nor I, for her.'

'I should think not!' exclaimed the Canon, as his eye fell on the
title of a yellow French book on the table.  'I have heard of this!
Does he make you read such as this to him, Alice?'

'Nothing else seems to amuse him,' she said.  'Do you, think I ought
not?  I don't understand much of that kind of modern French, but
Nuttie knows it better.'

'Not _that kind_, I hope,' said the Canon hastily.  No, no, my dear,'
as he saw her colour mantling, 'small blame to you.  You have only to
do the best you can with him, poor fellow!  Then we'll take anything
for you.  We've said nothing to Nuttie, Jane said I had better ask
you first.'

'Oh, that was kind!  I am glad she is spared the disappointment.'

Not that she was.  For when she learnt her cousins' destination, she
entreated to go with them, and had to be told that the proposal had
been made and refused.

There is no denying that she behaved very ill.  It was the first real
sharp collision of wills.  She had differed from, and disapproved of,
her father all along, but what had been required of her had generally
been pleasant to one side at least of her nature; but here she was
condemned to the dulness of the lonely outsider to a sick room, when
her whole soul was leaping back to the delights of her dear old home
at Micklethwayte,

She made her mother's brief meal with her such a misery of protests
and insistences on pleadings with her father that poor Alice was fain
to rejoice when the servants' presence silenced her, and fairly fled
from her when the last dish was carried out.

"When they met again Nuttie demanded, 'Have you spoken to my father?'

'I told you, my dear, it would be of no use?'

'You promised.'

'No, Nuttie, I did not.'

'I'm sure I understood you to say you would if you could.'

'It was your hopes, my dear child.  He is quite determined.'

'And you leave him so.  Mother, I can't understand your submitting to
show such cruel ingratitude!'

Nuttie was very angry, though she was shocked at the burning colour
and hot tears that she beheld as, half choked, her mother said: 'Oh,
my dear, my dear, do not speak so!  You know--you know it is not in
my heart, but my first duty, and yours too, is to your father.'

'Whatever he tells us?' demanded Nuttie, still hot and angry.

'I did not say that,' returned her mother gently, 'but you know,
Nuttie, Aunt Ursel herself would say that it is our duty to abide by
his decision here.'

'But you could speak to him,' still argued Nuttie, 'what's the use of
his being so fond of you if he won't do anything you want?'

'Hush! hush, Nuttie! you know that is not a right way of speaking.  I
cannot worry him now he is ill.  You don't know what that dreadful
pain is!'

Happily Nuttie did refrain from saying, 'No doubt it makes him very
cross;' but she muttered, 'And so we are to be cut off for ever from
Aunt Ursel, and Miss Mary, and--and--every thing good--and nice--and
catholic?'

'I hope not, indeed, I hope not.  Only he wants us to get the good
society manners and tone--like your cousins, you know.  You are young
enough for it, and a real Egremont, you know Nuttie, and when you
have learnt it, he will trust you there,' said the mother, making a
very mild version of his speech about the umbrella-mongers.

'Yes, he wants to make me worldly, so that I should not care, but
that he never shall do, whatever you may let him do to you.'

His bell rang sharply, and away hurried Alice, leaving her daughter
with a miserably sore and impatient heart, and the consciousness of
having harshly wounded the mother whom she had meant to protect.  And
there was no hugging and kissing to make up for it possible.  They
would not meet till dinner-time, and Nuttie's mood of stormy
repentance had cooled before that time into longing to be more tender
than usual towards her mother, but how was that possible during the
awful household ceremony of many courses, with three solemn men-
servants ministering to them?

And poor Alice jumped up at the end, and ran away as if afraid of
fresh objurgations, so that all Nuttie could do was to rush headlong
after her, catch her on the landing, kiss her face all over, and
exclaim, 'Oh, mother, mother, I was dreadfully cross!'

'There, there!  I knew you would be sorry, dear, dear child, I know
it is very hard, but let me go.  He wants me!'

And a very forlorn and deplorable person was left behind, feeling as
if her father, after carrying her away from everything else that she
loved, had ended by robbing her of her mother.

She stood on the handsome staircase, and contrasted it with the
little cosy entrance at her aunt's.  She felt how she hated all these
fine surroundings, and how very good and unworldly she was for so
doing.  Only, was it good to have been so violent towards her mother?

The Rectory folks were dining out, so she could only have recourse to
Mudie's box to try to drive dull care away.

A few days more and they were gone.  Though Mr. Egremont was
gradually mending, he still required his wife to be in constant
attendance.  In point of fact Alice could not, and in her loyalty
would not, tell her dignified brother-in-law, far less her daughter,
of the hint that the doctor had given her, namely, that her husband
was lapsing into the constant use of opiates, founded at first on the
needs of his malady, but growing into a perilous habit, which
accounted for his shutting himself up all the forenoon.

While under medical treatment it was possible to allowance him, and
keep him under orders, but Dr. Hamilton warned her not to allow the
quantity to be exceeded or the drugs to be resorted to after his
recovery, speaking seriously of the consequences of indulgence.  He
spoke as a duty, but as he looked at the gentle, timid woman, he saw
little hope of her doing any good!

Poor Alice was appalled.  All she could do was to betake herself to
'the little weapon called All-Prayer,' and therewith to use all
vigilance and all her arts of coaxing and cheering away weariness and
languor, beguiling sleeplessness, soothing pain by any other means.
She had just enough success to prevent her from utterly despairing,
and to keep her always on the strain, and at her own cost, for Mr.
Egremont was far more irritable when he was without the narcotic, and
the serenity it produced was an absolute relief.  She soon found too
that Gregorio was a contrary power.  Once, when he had suggested the
dose, and she had replied by citing the physician's commands, Mr.
Egremont had muttered an imprecation on doctors, and she had caught a
horrible grin of hatred on the man's face, which seemed to her almost
diabolical.  She had prevailed then, but the next time her absence
was at all prolonged, she found that the opiate had been taken, and
her dread of quitting her post increased, though she did not by any
means always succeed.  Sometimes she was good-humouredly set aside,
sometimes roughly told to mind her own business; but she could not
relinquish the struggle, and whenever she did succeed in preventing
the indulgence she felt a hopefulness that--in spite of himself and
Gregorio, she might yet save him.

Another hint she had from both the Canon and his wife.  When they
asked what place was chosen, Mr. Egremont said he had made Alice
write to inquire of the houses to be had at various resorts--Mentone,
Nice, Cannes, and the like.  She was struck by the ardour with which
they both began to praise Nice, Genoa, Sorrento, any place in
preference to Mentone, which her husband seemed to know and like the
best.

And when she went downstairs with them the Canon held her hand a
moment, and said, 'Anywhere but Mentone, my dear.'

She looked bewildered for a moment, and the Canoness added, 'Look in
the guide-books.'

Then she remembered Monte Carlo, and for a moment it was to her as
shocking a warning as if she had been bidden to keep her husband out
of the temptation of thieving.

She resolved, however, to do her best, feeling immediately that again
it was a pull of her influence against Gregorio's.  Fortune favoured
her so far that the villa favoured by Mr. Egremont was not to be had,
only the side of the bay he disliked, and that a pleasant villa
offered at Nice.

Should she close with it?  Well--was there great haste?  Gregorio
knew a good many people at Mentone, and could ascertain in his own
way if they could get the right side of the bay by going to the hotel
and waiting.  Alice, however, pressed the matter--represented the
danger of falling between two stools, pleaded personal preference,
and whereas Mr. Egremont was too lazy for resistance to any
persuasion, she obtained permission to engage the Nice villa.  The
next day Gregorio announced that he had heard that the proprietor of
Villa Francaleone at Mentone was giving up hopes of his usual
tenants, and an offer might secure it.

'Villa Eugenie at Nice is taken,' said Alice, and she received one of
those deadly black looks, which were always like a stab.

Of all this Nuttie knew nothing.  She was a good deal thrown with the
schoolroom party and with the curate's wife for companionship.  Now
Mrs. Edwards did not approve of even the canonical Egremonts, having
an ideal far beyond the ritual of Bridgefield; and she was delighted
to find how entirely Miss Egremont sympathised with her.

Nuttie described St. Ambrose's as a paradise of church observances
and parish management, everything becoming embellished and all
shortcomings forgotten in the loving mists of distance.  The
harmonium was never out of tune; the choir-boys were only just
naughty enough to show how wisely Mr. Spyers dealt with them; the
surplices, one would think, never needed washing; Mr. Dutton and
Gerard Godfrey were paragons of lay helpers, and district visitors
never were troublesome.  Mrs. Edwards listened with open ears, and
together they bewailed the impracticability of moving the Canon to
raising Bridgefield to anything approaching to such a standard; while
Nuttie absolutely cultivated her home sickness.

According to promise Blanche wrote to her from Monks Horton, and told
her thus much--'We have been all over your umbrella place.  It was
very curious.  Then we called upon Miss Headworth, who was quite
well, and was pleased to hear of you.'

Blanche was famous for never putting into a letter what her
correspondent wanted to hear, but her stepmother wrote a much longer
and more interesting letter to Mrs. Egremont.

'You will be glad to hear that we found your aunt quite well.  I
suppose it is not in the nature of things that you should not be
missed; but I should think your place as well supplied as could be
hoped by that very handsome and superior Miss Nugent, with whom she
lives.  I had a good deal of conversation with both; for you will be
surprised to hear that the Canon has consented to Mark's making the
experiment of working for a year in Greenleaf and Dutton's office,
with a view to entering the firm in future.  I was very anxious to
understand from such true ladies what the position would be socially.
I longed to talk it over with you beforehand; but Alwyn could never
spare you, and it was not a subject to be broached without ample time
for discussion.  We felt that though the Kirkaldys could tell us
much, it was only from the outside, whereas Miss Headworth could
speak from within.  The decision is of course a blow to his father,
and will be still more so to the De Lyonnais family, but they have
never done anything to entitle them to have a voice in the matter,
and the Kirkaldys agree with us that, though not a path of
distinction, it is one of honourable prosperity; and with this, if
Mark is content, we have no right to object, since his mind is set on
present happiness rather than ambition.'

It was a letter gratifying to Alice in its confidential tone, as well
as in the evident approval of those surroundings which she loved so
well.  She read it to her husband, as she was desired to give him a
message that the Canon had not written out of consideration for his
eyes.  He laughed the laugh that always jarred on her.  'So Master
Mark has got his nose to the grindstone, has he?' was his first
exclamation, and, after some cogitation, 'The fellow wants to be
married, depend on it!'

'Do you think so?' returned Alice wistfully.

'Think!  Why, you may see it in Jane's letter!  I wonder who it is!
The little yellow Ruthven girl, most likely!  The boy is fool enough
for anything!  I thought he would have mended his fortunes with
Ursula, but he's too proud to stomach that, I suppose!'

'I did wish that!' said Alice.  'It would have set everything
straight, and it would have been so nice for her.'

'You should have cut out your daughter after your own pattern,' he
answered; 'not let her be such a raw insignificant little spitfire.
'Tis a pity.  I don't want the estate to go out of the name, though I
won't leave it to an interfering prig like Mark unless he chooses to
take my daughter with it!'

The latter part of this amiable speech was muttered and scarcely
heard or attended to by Alice in her struggle to conceal the grief
she felt at the uncompromising opinion of her child.  Nuttie might
outgrow being raw, but there seemed less rather than more prospect of
a better understanding with her father.  About a week later Mark made
his appearance, timing it happily when his uncle was making his
toilette, so that his aunt was taking a turn on the sunny terrace
with Nuttie when the young man came hurrying up the garden.

'Mark!  What?  Are you come home?'

'Not the others.  They are at Mr. Condamine's, I came last night--by
way of Lescombe.  Edda, dear, it is all right!  Oh, I forgot you did
not know!  There was no seeing you before we went away.  Ah! by the
by, how is my uncle?'

'Much better, except that using his eyes brings on the pain.  'What
is it, Mark?  Ah! I can guess,' she said, aided no doubt by that
conjecture of her husband's.

'Yes, yes, yes!' he answered, with a rapidity quite unlike himself.
'Why, Nuttie, how mystified you look!'

'I'm sure I don't wonder at any one being glad to live at dear old
Micklethwayte,' said Nuttie slowly.  'But, somehow, I didn't think it
of you, Mark.'

'My dear, that's not all!' said her mother.

'Oh!' cried Nuttie, with a prolonged intonation.  'Is it?--Oh, Mark!
did you _do it_ that night when you led the horse home?'

'Even so, Nuttie!  And, Aunt Alice, Lady Ronnisglen is the best and
bravest of old ladies, and the wisest.  Nobody objects but Lady
Delmar, and she declares she shall not consider it an engagement till
Ronnisglen has been written to in Nepaul, as if he had anything to do
with it; but that matters the less, since they all insist on our
waiting till I've had a year's trial at the office!  I suppose they
could not be expected to do otherwise, but it is a pity, for I'm
afraid Lady Delmar will lead Annaple and her mother a life of it.'

'Dear Mark, I am delighted that it is all going so well.'

'I knew you would be!  I told them I must tell _you_, though it is
not to go any farther.'

So that hope of Mark's restoration to the inheritance faded from
Alice, and yet she could not be concerned for him.  She had never
seen him in such good spirits, for the sense of failure and
disappointment had always been upon him; and the definite prospect of
occupation, gilded by his hopes of Annaple, seemed to make a new man
of him.





CHAPTER XVII.
AN OLD FRIEND.




'My heart untravelled still returns to thee.'--GOLDSMITH.


To go abroad!  Such had been the fairy castle of Nuttie's life.  She
had dreamed of Swiss mountains, Italian pictures, Rheinland castles,
a perpetual panorama of delight, and here she was in one of the great
hotels of Paris, as little likely to see the lions of that city as
she had been to see those of London.

The party were halting for two days there because the dentist, on
whom Mr. Egremont's fine show of teeth depended, practised there; but
Nuttie spent great part of the day alone in the sitting-room, and her
hand-bag and her mother's, with all their books and little comforts,
had been lost in the agony of landing.  Her mother's attendance was
required all the morning, or what was worse, she expected that it
would be, and though Nuttie's persistence dragged out the staid,
silent English maid, who had never been abroad before, to walk in the
Tuilleries gardens, which they could see from their windows, both
felt half-scared the whole time.  Nuttie was quite unused to finding
her own way unprotected, and Martin was frightened, cross, and
miserable about the bags, which, she averred, had been left by
Gregorio's fault.  She so hated Gregorio that only a sort of
adoration which she entertained for Mrs. Egremont  would have induced
her to come tete-a-tete with him, and perhaps he was visiting his
disappointment about Mentone on her.  In the afternoon nothing was
achieved but a drive in the Bois de Boulogne, when it was at once
made evident that Mr. Egremont would tolerate no questions nor
exclamations.

His mouth was in no condition for eating in public, and he therefore
decreed that his wife and daughter should dine at the table d'hote,
while he was served alone by Gregorio.  This was a great boon to
Nuttie, and to her mother it recalled bridal days long past at
Dieppe; but what was their astonishment when on entering the room
they beheld the familiar face of Mr. Dutton!  It was possible for him
to place himself between them, and there is no describing the sense
of rest and protection his presence imparted to them, more especially
to Nuttie.

He had come over, as he did from time to time, on business connected
with the materials he used, and he was beguiled into telling them of
his views of Mark, whom he had put in the way of learning the
preliminaries needful to an accountant.  He had a deep distrust of
the business capacities and perseverance of young gentlemen of
family, especially with a countess-aunt in the neighbourhood, and
quoted Lord Eldon's saying that to make a good lawyer of one, it was
needful for him to have spent both his own and his wife's fortune to
begin with, but he allowed that young Mr. Egremont was a very
favourable specimen, and was resolutely applying himself to his work,
and that he himself felt it due to him to give all the assistance
possible.

Miss Headworth, he could not deny, had aged, but far less than Mrs.
Nugent in the past year, and it really was a great comfort to Miss
Mary to have the old ladies together.  He told too how the mission,
now lately over, had stirred the Micklethwayte folk into strong
excitement, and how good works had been undertaken, evil habits
renounced, reconciliations effected, religious services frequented.
Would it last?  Nobody, he said, had taken it up so zealously as
Gerard Godfrey, who seemed as if he would fain throw everything up,
and spend his whole life in some direct service as a home missionary
or something of the kind.  'He is a good fellow,' said Mr. Dutton,
'and it is quite genuine, but I made him wait at least a year, that
he may be sure that this is not only a passing impulse.'

Nuttie thought that she knew what was the impulse that had actuated
him, and felt a pleasant elation and self-consciousness even while
she repressed a sigh of pity for herself and for him.  Altogether the
dip into the Micklethwayte world was delightful, but when Mr. Dutton
began to ask Nuttie what she had seen, she burst out with, 'Nothing--
nothing but just a walk and a drive in the Bois de Boulogne;' and her
mother explained that 'in Mr. Egremont's state of health,' etc.

'I wonder,' asked Mr. Dutton, 'if I might be allowed--'

Nuttie's eyes sparkled with ecstasy.

It ended in her mother, who had been wondering how Mr. Egremont could
be amused all the long evening, arranging that Mr. Dutton should come
in an hour's time to call on him, on the chance of being admitted,
and that then the offer might be made when she had prepared him for
it, advising Nuttie to wait in her own room.  She was beginning to
learn how to steer between her husband and her daughter, and she did
not guess that her old friend was sacrificing one of the best French
plays for the chance.

It turned out well; Mr. Egremont was conscious of a want of variety.
He demanded whether it was the young fellow, and being satisfied on
that part, observed in almost a good-humoured tone, 'So, we are in
for umbrellas, we may as well go in for the whole firm!' caused the
lights to be lowered under pretext of his eyes--to conceal the lack
of teeth--did not absolutely refuse to let Nuttie take advantage of
the escort, and when Mr. Dutton did come to the anteroom of the
apartment, he was received with full courtesy, though Gregorio looked
unutterable contempt.  Mr. Dutton was a man who could talk, and had
seen a good deal of the world at different times.  Mr. Egremont could
appreciate intelligent conversation, so that they got on wonderfully
well together, over subjects that would have been a mere weariness to
Nuttie but for the exceeding satisfaction of hearing a Micklethwayte
voice.  At last Mr. Dutton said something about offering his escort
to the ladies, or to Miss Egremont, who used, he said in a paternal
way, to be a little playfellow of his; Mr. Egremont really smiled,
and said, 'Ay, ay, the child is young enough to run after sights.
Well, thank you, if you are so good as to take the trouble, they will
be very grateful to you, or if her mother cannot go with her, there's
the maid.'

Nuttie thought she had never known him so amiable, and hardly durst
believe her good fortune would not turn the wheel before morning.
And it so far did that her mother found, or thought she found, that
it would not do to be out of call, and sent the silent Martin in her
stead.  But Mr. Dutton had set telegraphs to work and recovered the
bags, which Gregorio had professed to give up in despair.

A wonderful amount of lionising was contrived by Mr. Dutton, who had
lived a few years at Paris in early youth, and had made himself
acquainted alike with what was most worth seeing, and the best ways
and means of seeing it, so that as little time as possible was wasted
on the unimportant.  It was one of the white days of Nuttie's life,
wanting nothing but her mother's participation in the sight of the
St. Michael of the Louvre, of the Sainte Chapelle, of the vistas in
Notre Dame, and of poor Marie Antoinette's cell,--all that they had
longed to see together.

She had meant to tell Mr. Dutton that it was all her father's
selfishness, but somehow she could not say so, there was something
about him that hindered all unbefitting outbreaks of vexation.

And thus, when she mentioned her disappointment at not being allowed
to go to Micklethwayte with her uncle, he answered, 'You could not of
course be spared with your father so unwell.'

'Oh, he never let me come near him!  I wasn't of the slightest use to
him!'

'Mrs. Egremont would have missed you.'

'Really he never gave her time.  He perfectly devours her, body and
soul.  Oh dear, no!  'Twas for no good I was kept there, but just
pride and ingratitude, though mother tried to call it being afraid
for my manners and my style.'

'In which, if you lapse into such talk, you fully justify the
precaution.  I was just thinking what a young lady you had grown
into,' he answered in a tone of banter, under which, however, she
felt a rebuke; and while directing her attention to the Pantheon, he
took care to get within hearing again of Martin.

And in looking at these things, he carried her so far below the
surface.  St. Michael was not so much Raffaelle's triumph of art as
the eternal victory over sin; the Sainte Chapelle, spite of all its
modern unsanctified gaudiness, was redolent of St. Louis; and the
cell of the slaughtered queen was as a martyr's shrine, trod with
reverence.  There were associations with every turn, and Nuttie might
have spent years at Paris with another companion without imbibing so
many impressions as on this December day, when she came home so full
of happy chatter that the guests at the table d'hote glanced with
amusement at the eager girl as much as with admiration at the
beautiful mother.  Mr. Dutton had been invited to come and take
coffee and spend the evening with them again, but Mr. Egremont's
affairs with the dentist had been  completed, and he had picked up,
or, more strictly speaking, Gregorio had hunted up for him, a couple
of French acquaintances, who appeared before long and engrossed him
entirely.

Mr. Dutton sat between the two ladies on a stiff dark-green sofa on
the opposite side of the room, and under cover of the eager, half-
shrieking, gesticulating talk of the Frenchmen they had a quiet low-
toned conversation, like old times, Alice said.  'More than old
times,' Nuttie added, and perhaps the others both agreed with her.

When the two Englishwomen started at some of the loud French tones,
almost imagining they were full of rage and fury, their friend smiled
and said that such had been his first notion on coming abroad.

'You have been a great deal abroad?' Mrs. Egremont asked; 'you seem
quite at home in Paris.'

'Oh, mamma, he showed me where the school was that he went to, and
the house where he lived!  Up such an immense way!'

Mr. Dutton was drawn on to tell more of his former life than ever had
been known to them.  His father, a wine merchant, had died a bankrupt
when he was ten years old, and a relation, engaged in the same
business at Paris, had offered to give him a few years of foreign
schooling, and then make him useful in the business.

His excellent mother had come with him, and they had lived together
on very small means, high up in a many-storied lodging-house, while
he daily attended the Lycie.  His reminiscences were very happy of
those days of cheerful contrivance, of her eager desire to make the
tiny appartement a home to her boy, of their pleasant Sundays and
holidays, and the life that in this manner was peculiarly guarded by
her influence, and the sense of being all she had upon earth.  He had
scarcely ever spoken of her before, and he dwelt on her now with a
tenderness that showed how she had been the guiding spirit of his
life.

At fifteen he was taken into the office at Marseilles, and she went
thither with him, but the climate did not agree with her; she
drooped, and, moreover, he discovered that the business was not
conducted in the honourable manner he had supposed.  After a few
months of weighing his obligations to his kinsman against these
instincts, the question was solved by his cousin's retiring.  He
resolved to take his mother back to England at any loss, and falling
in with one of the partners of the umbrella firm in quest of French
silk, he was engaged as foreign correspondent, and brought his mother
to Micklethwayte, but not in time to restore her health, and he had
been left alone in the world just as he came of age, when a small
legacy came to him from his cousin, too late for her to profit by it.
It had been invested in the business, and he had thus gradually risen
to his present position.  Mrs. Egremont was amazed to hear that his
mother had only been dead so short a time before she had herself come
to Micklethwayte; and fairly apologised for the surprise she could
not help betraying at finding how youthful he had then been, and
Nuttie exclaimed, in her original unguarded fashion:

'Why, Mr. Dutton, I always thought you were an old bachelor!'

'Nuttie, my dear!' said her mother in a note of warning, but Mr.
Dutton laughed and said:

'Not so far wrong!  They tell me I never was a young man.'

'You had always to be everything to your mother,' said Mrs. Egremont
softly.

'Yes,' he said, 'and a very blessed thing it was for me.'

'Ah! you don't regret now all that you must have always been giving
up for her,' returned Alice.

'No, indeed.  Only that I did not give up more.'

'That is always the way.'

'It is indeed.  One little knows the whips that a little self-will
prepares.'

Nuttie thought he said it for her admonition, and observed, 'But she
was good,' only, however, in a mumble, that the other two thought it
inexpedient to notice, though it made both hearts ache for her, even
Alice's--with an additional pang of self-reproach that she herself
was not good enough to help her daughter better.

Neither of them guessed at the effect that a glimpse of the lovely
young seeming widow had had on the already grave self-restrained
young man in the home lately made lonely, how she had been his secret
object for years, and how, when her history was revealed to him, he
had still hoped on for a certainty which had come at last as so fatal
a shock and overthrow to all his dreams.

A life of self-restraint and self-conquest had rendered it safe for
him to thoroughly enjoy the brief intercourse, which had come about
by the accident of his having come to dine at the Hotel de Louvre, to
meet a friend who had failed him.

These were two completely happy hours to all the three, and when they
said 'good-night' there was a sense of soothing and invigoration on
Alice's mind; and on Nuttie's that patience and dutifulness were the
best modes of doing justice to her Micklethwayte training, although
he had scarcely said a word of direct rebuke or counsel.

While Mr. Dutton sped home to tell Miss Headworth that Mrs. Egremont
looked lovelier than ever, and was--yes she was--more of an angel,
that her husband had been very pleasant, much better than he
expected, and, indeed, might come to anything good under such
influence; and as to little Nuttie--she was developing fast, and had
a brave constant heart, altogether at Micklethwayte.  But that
servant who was acting as courier was an insolent scoundrel, who was
evidently cheating them to the last degree.





CHAPTER XVIII.
A FRIEND IN NEED.




'True courage often is in frightened eyes.'--
                                 Thoughts and Verses.


All the preliminaries of the sojourn at Nice had been settled in
correspondence, and the Egremont family had nothing to do, after
arriving at the station, but to drive up to Villa Eugenie, whose
flower-wreathed balconies were like a vision of beauty.  Servants had
been hired through agencies known to Mr. Egremont, and Gregorio
looked very black at his mistress keeping the reins in her hand, and
tried to make her feel herself inefficient.

It was not an eventful or very interesting part of Ursula's life.
She was almost wild with the novelty and beauty of the South at
first, but except for what she could thus see, there was little
variety.  The mould of the day was as much as possible after the
Bridgefield fashion, except that there were no cousins at the
Rectory, no parish interests, very little society, as far as the
ladies were concerned.  Mr. Egremont had old acquaintance and
associates with whom he spent afternoons and evenings, after his own
fashion, but they were not people to whom he wished to introduce his
wife and daughter.

And the superior English habitues of Nice, the families who formed
the regular society, knew Mr. Egremont's reputation sufficiently to
feel by no means disposed to be cordial to the fair wife and grown-up
daughter whom he so unexpectedly produced on the scene.  It had been
different at home, where he had county standing, and the Canon and
Canoness answered for the newcomers; but here, where all sorts of
strange people came to the surface, the respectable felt it needful
to be very cautious, and though of course one or two ladies had been
asked to call through the intervention of Lady Kirkaldy or of Mrs.
William Egremont, and had been assured on their authority that it was
'all right,' their attentions were clogged by doubt, and by
reluctance to involve their mankind in intimacy with the head of the
family.  Thus very little of the proverbial gaiety of Nice offered
itself to Nuttie and her mother, and, except by a clerical family who
knew Mr. Spyers, they were kept at a distance, which Mr. Egremont
perceived and resented by permitting no advances.  The climate suited
him so well that, to his wife's great relief, he seemed to have
dropped his inclination for sedatives; but his eyes would not bear
much, and she felt bound to be always on the alert, able to amuse him
and hinder his feeling it dull.  Gregorio highly disapproved of the
house and servants, and was always giving hints that Mentone would
agree far better with his master; but every day that Mr. Egremont
seemed sufficiently amused at Nice was so much gain, and she had this
in her favour, that he was always indolent and hard to move.
Moreover, between his master's levee and late dinner Gregorio was
hardly ever to be found.  No doubt he knew the way to Monte Carlo
well enough, and perhaps preferred that the family should be farther
off, for he soon ceased to show himself discontented with their
present abode.  Once when his absence was inconvenient, Mr. Egremont
abused him roundly as a good-for-nothing gambler, but when Alice
hoped that he might be called to a reckoning, the wrath had subsided
with the immediate vexation, and as usual she was told 'All those
fellows were alike.'

The foreign servants were not to be induced to give the early-rising
ladies more than a roll and cup of coffee, and Nuttie felt ravenous
till she learned to lay in a stock of biscuits, and, with Martin's
connivance, made tea on her own account, and sustained her mother for
the morning's walk before the summons to Mr. Egremont.

He always wanted his wife much earlier in the day, during his hours
of deshabille, and letting her write his letters and read the papers
to him.  She was pleased with this advance, but it gave Nuttie a
great deal more solitude, which was sometimes judiciously spent, but
it was very hard not to be desultory in spite of learning lessons in
French, Italian, and drawing.

Later in the day came the drive or the visit to the public gardens
when the band was playing, but this became less frequent as Mr.
Egremont observed the cold civility shown to his wife, and as he
likewise grew stronger and made more engagements of his own.  Then
Nuttie had happy afternoons of driving, donkey-riding, or walking
with her mother, sketching, botanising, admiring, and laying up
stores for the long descriptive letters that delighted the party in
St. Ambrose's Road, drinking in all the charm of the scenery, and
entering into it intelligently.  They spent a good many evenings
alone together likewise, and it could not but give Alice a pang to
see the gladness her daughter did not repress when this was the case,
even though to herself it meant relaxation of the perpetual vigilance
she had to exert when the father and daughter were together to avert
collisions.  They were certainly not coming nearer to one another,
though Nuttie was behaving very well and submissively on the whole,
and seldom showing symptoms of rebellion.  This went on through the
early part of their stay, but latterly there was a growing sense upon
the girl that she and her mother were avoided by some young ladies to
whom they had been introduced, and whom they saw regularly at the
daily services at St. Michael's Church.  They were pleasant-looking
girls, with whom Nuttie longed to fraternise, and she was mortified
at never being allowed to get beyond a few frigidly civil words in
the street, more especially when she came upon sketching parties and
picnics in which she was never included.

It was all very well for her mother to answer her murmurs and
wonderings with 'You know people are very exclusive, my dear.'
Nuttie began to guess that her father and her name were the real
reason, and her eyes were further opened later in the spring when Mr.
Egremont, who had recovered unusual health and vigour, took his
ladies to Mentone to spend a day or two in the newer beauties there.
Alice had her misgivings, but the visit was avowedly to show the
place to her, and she could not reasonably object.  He was in unusual
good humour, and even tolerated their ecstasies at the scenery and
the flowers, dined at the table d'hote and found acquaintance,
enjoyed himself, and in the forenoon, while Nuttie was out wondering
and admiring, and going as far as she could drag Martin, he expressed
to his wife that she would be astonished at the gardens and the music
of Monte Carlo.

There, however, Alice made a stand.  'Thank you, it is very kind, but
if you please, I should not like to take Ursula to Monte Carlo, or to
go there myself,' she said in an apologetic tone.

He laughed.  'What! you are afraid of making the little one a
confirmed gambler?'

'You know I am not, but--'

'You think the little prig will be contaminated, eh?'

'Well, I think it will be happier for her if she never sees anything--
of the kind.'

'You little foolish Edda, as if her eyes or ears need see anything
but flowers and music and good company.'

'I know that, but I had so much rather not.  It was a sweet face and
caressing voice that implored, and he still was good humoured.

'Well, well, I don't want to drag you, old lady, against your will,
though I fancy you would be rather surprised at the real aspect of
the abode of iniquity your fancy depicts.'

'Oh, thank you, thank you so much!'

'What an absurd little woman it is!  I wonder if you would thank me
as heartily supposing I cleared a round thousand and gave you--say a
diamond necklace?'

'I am sure I should not!'

'No, I don't believe you would.  That restless little conscience of
yours would be up on end.  After all, I don't know that you are the
worse for it, when it looks so prettily out of your brown eyes.  I
wonder what you expect to see?  The ruined gamester shooting himself
on every path, eh?'

'No, no; I don't suppose I should see anything horrid or even
disagreeable.  I know it is all very beautiful; but then every person
who goes for the innocent pleasures' sake only helps to keep up the
whole thing--evil and all.'

'And what would the old women of all sorts here and at Nice do
without such a choice temple of scandal to whet their teeth upon?
Well, I suppose you and your precious daughter can take care of
yourselves.  There are the gardens, or you can tell Gregorio to order
you a carriage.'

'Then you are going?'

'Yes, I promised Grafton.  Don't be afraid, Mistress Edda, I'm not
going to stake Bridgefield and reduce you to beggary.  I'm an old
hand, and was a cool one in my worst days, and whatever I get I'll
hand over to appease you.'

That was all she could obtain, and she secretly hoped there would be
no winnings to perplex her.  Thankful that she had not made him angry
by the resistance for which she had prepared herself with secret
prayer ever since the Mentone scheme had been proposed, she placed
herself at Nuttie's disposition for the rest of the day.

They had a charming donkey-ride, and, still unsatiated with beauty,
Ursula made her mother come out again to wonder at the trees in the
public gardens.  Rather tired, they were sitting on a shaded bench,
when a voice close to them exclaimed, 'It is; yes, it must be; 'tis
the voice--yes, and the face prettier than ever.  Little Alice--ah!
you don't know me.  Time has been kinder to you than to me.'

'Oh!  I know you now!  I beg your pardon,' cried Alice, recognising
in the thin nutcracker parchment visage and shabbily-dressed figure
the remnant of the brilliant aquiline countenance and gay attire of
eighteen years ago.  'Mrs. Houghton!  I am so glad to have met you,
you were so kind to me.  And here she is.'

'What! is this the child?  Bless me, what a proof how time goes!
Young lady, you'll excuse my not knowing you.  You were a very
inconvenient personage not quite born when I last met your mother.
What a likeness!  I could have known her for Alwyn Egremont's
daughter anywhere!'

'Yes, they all say she is a thorough Egremont.'

'Then it is all right.  I saw Alwyn Egremont, Esquire, and family
among the arrivals at Nice, but I hardly durst expect that it was
you.  It seemed too good to be true, though I took care the knot
should be tied faster than my gentleman suspected.'

'Oh, please!' cried Alice deprecatingly, at first not apprehending
the force of the words, having never known the gulf from which Mrs.
Houghton had saved her, and that lady, seeing that the girl was
listening with all her ears, thought of little pitchers and
restrained her reminiscences, asking with real warm interest, 'And
how was it?  How did you meet him again?'

'He came and found me out,' said Alice, with satisfaction in her
voice.

'Indeed!  Not at Dieppe; for he was en garcon when I nearly came
across him ten years ago at Florence.'

'Oh no!  He inquired at Dieppe, but they had lost the address my aunt
left.'

'Indeed!  I should not have thought it of old Madame Leroux, she
seemed so thoroughly interested in la pauvre petite.  What did you
do?  Your aunt wrote to me when your troubles were safely over, and
she thought him lost in the poor Ninon, that she meant to settle in a
place with an awfully long Yorkshire name.'

'Micklethwayte; yes, we lived there, and got on very well.  We had
boarders, and I had some dear little pupils; but last year Mark
Egremont--you remember dear little Mark--was in the neighbourhood,
and hearing my name, he told his uncle, who had been seeking us ever
since.  And he came, Mr. Egremont, and took us home, and oh, the
family have been so kind!'

'What?  The parson, and that awful old she-lion of a grandmother,
whose very name scared you out of your wits?'

'She is dead, and so is dear good Lady Adelaide.  Canon Egremont is
kindness itself.  It was all the old lady's doing, and he knew
nothing about it.  He was gone to Madeira with Lady Adelaide and got
none of our letters, and he never knew that his brother was married
to me.'

'Trust Alwyn for that,' Mrs. Houghton muttered.  'Well, all's well
that ends well, and I hope he feels due gratitude to me for doing him
a good turn against his will.  I tried to get at him at Florence to
find out what he had done with you, but unluckily I was ill, and had
to send through poor Houghton, and he mismanaged it of course, though
I actually wrote down that barbarous address, Mickle something, on a
card.  I believe he only got as far as the man instead of the
master.'

'Ah!  I wanted to ask for Captain Houghton,' said Alice, glad to lead
the conversation away from revelations of which she had an
instinctive dread.

'Gone, my dear! two years ago.  Poor fellow! it was low fever, but
quite as much want of luck, I shall always believe,' she said.

'Oh, I am sorry!  He was so kind to me!' said Alice, squeezing her
hand, and looking up with sweet tender commiseration.

'There, there, don't, you pretty creature!' said Mrs. Houghton,
putting her hand across her eyes.  'I declare, you've almost made me
cry--which I've not done--well, hardly, since I parted with you at
Dieppe, thinking you a sweet little flower plucked and thrown away to
die, though I had done my best to bind it to him.  What care I took
not to let Houghton disabuse him about Jersey marriages!'

There is a difference between hearing and hearkening, and Alice
Egremont's loving and unsuspecting heart was so entirely closed
against evil thoughts of her husband, and so fully occupied with her
old friend's condition, that she never took in the signification of
all this, while Nuttie, being essentially of a far more shrewd and
less confiding nature, and already imbued with extreme distrust of
her father, was taking in all these revelations with an open-eyed,
silent horror of conviction that her old impressions of the likeness
to Marmion or Theseus had been perfectly correct.  It was all under
her hat, however, and the elder ladies never thought of her, Alice
bringing back the conversation to Mrs. Houghton herself.  'Oh, my
dear, I drag on as I can.  I've got a fragment of our old income, and
when that's run too low, I go up to Monte Carlo--I always had the
lucky hand, you know, and 'tis only restitution after all!  I'm sick
of it all though, and sometimes think I'll take my good sister Anne's
offers and go home.'

'Oh do, do!' cried Alice.

'But,' went on the poor woman, 'humble pie goes against me, and think
what an amount would be before me--heigh ho!--after nearly five-and-
twenty years; yes, five-and-twenty years it is--since Houghton, poor
fellow, told me I was too bright and winsome for a little country
lawyer's house in a poky street.  What would they think of me now?'
and she laughed with a sound that was painful to hear.  'Well,
Sycorax had done one good deed, and when I look at you, queening it
there, I feel that so have I.'

'You were very good to me, I know; but oh, if you would go home to
your sister!'

'My dear, you little know what you ask!  Anne!  Why, she is the prime
district lady, or whatever you call it, of Dockforth.  Think what it
would be to her to have this battered old vaurien thrown on her
hands, to be the stock subject for all the righteous tongues.
Besides,' as she coughed, 'the English climate would make an end of
me outright.  I'm in a bad way enough here, where I can sit among the
lemon trees half the days in the winter, but the English fireside in
a stuffy parlour--' and she shuddered.

That shiver reminded all that it was getting late, too late for Mrs.
Houghton to be out of doors, and near the time when Mr. Egremont was
to meet his ladies at the hotel.  Alice begged for Mrs. Houghton's
address, and it was given with a short ironical laugh at her promise
to call again if possible.  'Ay, if possible,' the poor woman
repeated.  'I understand!  No, no,' as Alice was about to kiss her.
'I won't have it done.'

'There's no one in sight.'

'As if that made a difference!  Alice, child, you are as innocent as
the little dove that flew aboard the Ninon.  How have you done it?
Get along with you!  No kisses to such as me!  I don't know whether
it breaks my heart, or binds it up to look at the face of you.
Anyway, I can't bear it.'

She hurried away, and made some steps from them.  A terrible paroxysm
of coughing came on, and Mrs. Egremont hurried towards her, but she
waved back all help, shook her head, and insisted on going home.
Alice kept her in sight, till she dived into a small side street.

'Mother,' said Nuttie.  Then there was a pause.  'Mother, did you
know all this?'

'Don't talk of it, Nuttie.  It is not a thing to be talked about to
any one or by any one.  I wish you had not been there.'

'But, mother, this once!  Did you know?'

'I knew that I knew not what I did when I went on board that yacht,
but that God's kind providence was over me in a way that I little
deserved.  That is all I care to know, and, Ursula, I will have not
another word about it.  No, I will not hear it.'

'I was only going to ask whether you would tell my father.'

'Certainly; but not before you.'

The tone of decision was unwonted, and Nuttie knew she must abide by
it, but the last shreds of filial respect towards Mr. Egremont were
torn away by what Mrs. Houghton had implied, and the girl dashed up
and down her bedroom muttering to herself, 'Oh, why have I such a
father?  And she, she will not see it, she is wilfully blind!  Why
not break with him and go home to dear Aunt Ursel and Gerard and Mr.
Dutton at once, instead of this horrid, horrid grandeur?  Oh, if I
could fling all these fine things in his face, and have done with him
for ever.  Some day I will, when I am of age, and Gerard has won his
way.'

Meantime Alice, in some trepidation, but with resolution at the
bottom, had told her husband of the meeting with Mrs. Houghton, of
her widowhood, sickness, and poverty.

He did not like the intelligence of their meeting, and hoped no one
had seen it; then, when reassured on this score, he hummed a little
and exclaimed, 'Poor old Flossy Houghton!  I don't wonder!  They went
the pace!  Well, what do you want?  Twenty pounds for her!  Why,
'twill all be at Monte Carlo in three days' time.'

'It is very good of you, but I want more than that.  She is so ill
and wretched, you know. '

'I can't have you visiting her, if that's what you mean.  Why, after
all the pains I've been at to get you on your proper level at home,
here's my Lady Louisa and all her crew, in their confounded
insolence, fighting shy of you, and you can't give them a better
colour for it than by running after a woman like that--divorced to
begin with, and known at every gambling table in Europe.'

'I know that, Alwyn, dear Alwyn' (it was very seldom that she called
him so, and she put her clasped hands on his shoulder); 'but I am
sure she is dying, and she was so good to me, I can't bear doing
nothing for her.'

'Well, there's twenty--fifty, if you like.'

'Thank you, thank you, but you know I never meant to visit her--like--
like society; only to go sometimes privately and--'

'And how about your daughter?'

'I would not take her on any account.  What I want to do is this.
Mrs. Houghton spoke of her sister, a kind good woman in England, who
would take her home, and love her, if only she could bring herself to
go.  Now, I think I could persuade her to write, or let me write to
the sister--and if only the two were together again!  It is very
dreadful to think of her dying alone, in the way she is going on!'

'What, little saint, you want to try your hand on her?  I should say
she was too tough an old sinner for you.'

'Oh, Alwyn! her heart was very near, though she tried to keep it
back.  I do not want to--to do what you mean--only to get her to let
her sister come.  I'm sure that would do the rest.'

'If any sister does more than you, you little witch,' he said.

Alice pressed him no more then, but a day or two later, when she knew
he had an engagement, she arranged to dispose of Nuttie with the
clergyman's wife, and then begged permission to go by train to
Mentone, and come back in the evening.  He did not like it--no more
did she--for she was perfectly unaccustomed to travelling alone, but
there was a deep sense of sacred duty upon her, only strengthened by
her unwillingness to realise how much she owed to Mrs. Houghton.

She telegraphed that she was coming, and found her friend more
touched than she chose to allow at the fact of her visit, declaring
that she must have wonderful power over Alwyn Egremont, if she knew
how to use it; indeed, the whole tone was of what Alice felt
flattery, intended to turn away anything more serious.  Poor woman,
she was as careful of doing no injury to her young friend's
reputation as Mr. Egremont could have desired.  Alice had come
resolved that she should have one good meal, but she would not hear
of eating anywhere in public where either could be recognised, and
the food was brought to a private room in the hotel.  To her lodgings
she still would not take Alice, nor would she give her sister's
address.  Except for a genuine shower of tears when Alice insisted on
kissing her there seemed no ground gained.

But Alice went again on her husband's next visit to Mentone.  He was,
to a certain degree, interested in her endeavours, and really wished
the poor woman to be under the charge of her relations, instead of
dying a miserable lonely death among strangers.

This time Alice had to seek her friend in the dreary quatrieme of the
tall house with the dirty stone stairs. It was a doleful empty room,
where, with a mannish-looking dressing-gown and a torn lace scarf
tied hood-fashion over her scanty hair, Mrs. Houghton sat over a pan
of charcoal oppressive to Alice's English lungs.

'Come again!' she cried.  'Well, I really shall begin to think that
angels and ministers of grace exist off the stage!  You pretty thing!
Let me look at you.  Where did you get that delicious little bonnet?'

'Why, it is perfectly plain!'

'So it is!  'Tis only the face that is in it.  Now if some folks put
this on--sister Anne, for example, what dowdies they would be.  Poor
old Anne, you must know she had a turn for finery, only she never
knew how to gratify it.  To see the contortions of her crinolines was
the delight of all the grammar school.  It was a regular comedy for
them to see her get into our pew edgeways, and once unconsciously she
carried off a gentleman's hat on her train.'

So she went on talking, coughing at intervals, and generally using a
half-mocking tone, as if defying the tenderness that awoke in spite
of her, but always of her original home, and especially of her
sister.  Alice ventured to ask whether they often heard from one
another.

'Good soul, she always writes at Christmas and on my birthday.  I
know as well as possible that I shall find a letter poste restante
wherever she heard of me last, and that she hasn't done--I'm ashamed
to say for how long--really, I think not since I let her know that I
couldn't stand Ivy Lodge, Dockforth, at any price, when she wrote to
Monaco on seeing poor Houghton's death in the paper.'

There was a good deal of rambling talk of this kind, to which Alice
listened tenderly and compassionately, making no attempt at
persuasion, only doing what was possible for the poor lady's comfort.
She had procured on her way some fruit and jelly, and some good
English tea, at which Mrs. Houghton laughed, saying, 'Time was, I
called it cat-lap!  Somehow it will seem the elixir of life now,
redolent, even milkless, of the days when we were young.'

Then she revealed something of her long, suffering, almost ghastly
nights, and Alice gently told how her old friend, Mrs. Nugent,
suffered from sleeplessness, and kept a store of soothing psalms and
hymns in her memory.  There was a little laugh.  'That's for you good
folk.  I haven't such a thing about me!  Come, Par exemple!' and
Alice repeated the first thing she could remember, the verse
beginning 'God, who madest earth and heaven.'

'That's one of your charms, is it?  Well, it would not be too much
for me if my poor old memory would hold it.  Say it again.'

Alice generally had about her a tiny prayer-book with 'Hymns, Ancient
and Modern,' attached.  It had been a gift from Mary Nugent, and she
was fond of it, but the opportunity was not to be lost, and she took
it out, saying she would bring a larger one and reclaim it.  And, as
she was finally taking leave, she said with a throbbing heart, 'Do
you know that you have betrayed your sister's address?  I shall write
to her now.'

'If you do--!' cried Mrs. Houghton, in a tone like threatening
deprecation, but with a little of her strange banter in it besides.
Alice's mind had been made up to do the thing, and she had not felt
it honest not to give due warning of her intentions.  Even now she
was not certain of the lady's surname, but she trusted to her
husband's knowledge of Mrs. Houghton's previous history; and not in
vain.  Mr. Egremont amused himself with a little ridicule at his
wife's quixotry, and demanded whether Flossy Houghton was a promising
convert; but confessed himself very glad that the poor thing should
be off their hands, declaring that it was quite time her own people
looked after her, and happily he recollected her maiden name.  So the
letter was written, after numerous attempts at expressing it
suitably, explaining Mrs. Houghton's illness and the yearnings she
was too proud and ashamed to express to her sister, and was answered
at once by a few short words of earnest gratitude, and an assurance
that Miss Reade was preparing to start at once.  Could Mrs. Egremont
meet her and prepare her sister?

To Alice's disappointment this could not be.  Mr. Egremont had
invited some friends to the villa, and would not spare her.  She
could only send a note, assuring Miss Reade that she believed that
preparation would do more harm than good, and she waited and watched
anxiously.  A card came by the post in Mrs. Houghton's scrawled
writing.  'Naughty little wretch!' was all it said, but thence she
gathered hope.

The spring was advancing, and Mr. Egremont was in haste to be gone,
but Alice obtained one more run to Mentone, and once more climbed up
the dark and dirty stairs to the room, where the well-known voice
answered her tap, 'Come in!  Ah, there she is, the wicked little
angel!'

A substantial little roly-poly business-like little woman hurried
forward with tearful eyes and outstretched hands.  'Oh, Mrs.
Egremont! can I ever thank you enough?'

'You can't, Anne, so don't try.  It will be a relief to all parties,'
interposed Mrs. Houghton.  'Sentiment is not permitted here.'

Nevertheless she hugged Alice almost convulsively.  She was sitting
in a comfortable arm-chair, one about which Mrs. Egremont knew
something, and the whole aspect of the room had changed indescribably
for the better, as much indeed as Mrs. Houghton's own personal array,
which had no longer the desolate neglected look of old.

A little stool was close to her chair, as if the two sisters could
not bear to be far apart, and the look of love and content in their
eyes as they turned to one another was perfect joy to Alice.  She had
no longer any doubt that Anne Reade, who had found the wanderer yet a
great way off, would yet bring her back to the home, spiritually if
not outwardly.

Mrs. Houghton spoke, of better rooms when the winter visitors had
fled, Anne spoke of her being able to return to Dockforth.  Whether
that would ever be seemed entirely doubtful to Alice's eyes,
especially as the patient's inclination was evidently otherwise.
There was nothing to be done but to leave the sisters together,
obtaining Miss Reade's ready promise to write, and putting into her
hands a sum of money which could be sincerely called 'only a debt of
gratitude from my husband and me,' and which would smooth the way
either to remaining or returning to England.

Nor was there any return.  Ere many weeks had passed Mrs. Egremont
heard from Miss Reade how a fresh cold had made it impossible to
move, and summer heat had brought on low fever, which had destroyed
the feeble strength, but not till 'childhood's star' had again
arisen, and a deeply and truly repentant woman had passed away,
saved, as it seemed, through that one effort on behalf of the young
girl whose innocence she had protected.





CHAPTER XIX.
THE VORTEX.




'With one black shadow at her feet.'--TENNYSON.


The rebuffs that society had bestowed on his wife and daughter at
Nice had rendered Mr. Egremont the more determined on producing them
in London and establishing their position.  He secured a furnished
house in Westburnia before leaving Nice, and, travelling leisurely
home without visiting Bridgefield, he took possession the second week
in May.

There had not been much correspondence with the Rectory, and on the
first forenoon, as Mrs. Egremont and Nuttie were trying to enliven
the drawing-room with the flowers sent up to meet them, they were
surprised by the entrance of Blanche, full of kisses and welcomes.

'Oh! didn't you know?  I'm with the Kirkaldys just round the corner.
Aunt Margaret has undertaken to do the part of a noble aunt by me.'

'Then you are here for the season?  And May?'

'May wouldn't come, except just for a week to see the pictures, and
lay in a stock of talk.  She's grown more parochial than ever, and we
believe it is all Hugh Condamine.  Oh! I forgot you were gone before
we came home last autumn.  He is mamma's nephew, you know, and was
ordained last year to the curacy of the next parish to his father's
place.  If the Edwardses only would take themselves off, we would
have him at home, and then we should have flowers on the altar, and
all sorts of jolly things.  Papa would stand ever so much more from
him than from the old Edwardses.'

'But is he engaged to May, then?'

'Well, no, not exactly.  I believe he does not think it right till he
has done preparing for priest's orders.  He's ever so strict, you
know, and he hasn't got much either; but he means it.  Lucy, his
sister, you know, told me all about it, and that altogether the
elders had settled it was better for both that he should attend to
his preparation, and May should not bind herself, though they really
understand one another, and so she won't come to London.'

'Oh, that's very good of her!' cried Nuttie; 'but why won't they let
them settle their minds and be engaged?'

'People are always tiresome,' said Blanche; 'and I do believe the
living is at the bottom of it, at least Lucy thought so.  I mean
everybody wants to wait--all the old ones, I mean--not Hugh or May,
of course--to know whether Mark will stick to the umbrellas, or turn
back and be a clergyman, because, then, of course, he would have the
living; and if he doesn't, they want to be certain whether Uncle
Alwyn, or you, Nuttie, would promise it to Hugh if he married May!'

'Me!' exclaimed Nuttie.

'My dear, I don't like to hear you talk of such things,' said Mrs.
Egremont gently.

'Oh yes, I know--it's all very dreadful.  I was only telling you what
is in the old people's heads, and what would settle it, and make it
all right with them.'

'And how is Mark?  Is Miss Ruthven in London?' asked Mrs. Egremont,
glad to turn away the conversation from the contingencies of which
Blanche spoke with the hardness of youth, as yet not realising
sorrow.

'I daresay you know nearly as much of Mark as we do, now the
Kirkaldys are up here.  All his letters go to Lescombe.  Oh no,
Annaple is not in London.  The Delmars can't afford it, you know,
though I believe my lady would have made a stretch if Annaple hadn't
been bespoke--but now she reserves herself for Muriel.'

Alice looked with some discomfort at the soft fair-haired creature
who was uttering all this worldly jargon in a tone that would have
been flippant if it had not been so childish.  She asked if Lord.
Ronnisglen had written.

'Oh yes, long ago.  Lady Delmar had tried to make him nasty about it,
but he wouldn't be, so that's all right; and Mark seems to get on
very well, though it must be horridly dull for him now the Kirkaldys
are away, and he can't spend all his Sundays at Monks Horton.'

'He will get more into the spirit of the place,' said Nuttie, whereat
Blanche shrugged her shoulders a little, and exclaimed:

'You've got out of it at any rate, Nuttie!'

'I hope not!'

'Well, then, the look of it!  I never saw any one so improved!  Isn't
she, Aunt Alice?  She's grown, I declare!  Yes'--measuring herself
against her cousin--'I was a leetle bit taller when you came, and now
you've got above me! and what a duck of a way of doing your hair!
You must show me!  I must tell May there's no fear of your being
taken for one another now; Aunt Margaret will be quite surprised.'

It was true that Ursula had developed a good deal during the last
year, and, under the experienced hands of Martin, had lost her
schoolgirl air, and turned into a young lady capable of becoming the
Paris outfit which her father had enjoined.  Without positive beauty,
she was a pleasing, intelligent, animated girl, with the reputation
of being an heiress, with a romance in the background, and there was
nothing to prevent her from being a success.  The family connections,
with Lady Kirkaldy to set the example, had determined on giving full
support to Mrs. Egremont, and, as of course every one liked to look
at so lovely a face, the way of both was smoothed in a manner that
delighted her husband when they encountered any of those who had
looked coldly on her at Nice.

He would have had her presented, but her own reluctance and the
united counsels of Lady Kirkaldy and the Canoness prevailed on him to
drop the idea; and then there was a fight with Ursula, who declared
that she would not go to court if her mother did not; but she was
overruled at last by that mother's tears at her defiance; and let
herself be presented, together with Blanche, by Lady Kirkaldy.

To Ursula it was altogether a strange time, full of the same kind of
reckless swing and sense of intoxication that had possessed her at
Bridgefield.  Not that there was an excessive amount of actual
gaiety.  Hot rooms and late hours were soon found not to agree with
Mrs. Egremont.  She looked faded and languid after evening parties;
and, as her husband really cared more to have her ready to wait upon
him and amuse him than for anything else, he did not insist on her
going out more than might be needful to establish her position, or
when it suited him to show her off.  The other purposes were quite as
well served by letting Ursula go out with Lady Kirkaldy, who was
warmly interested in mother and daughter, glad of a companion for
Blanche, and still more glad of a companion for herself.  For she was
not slow to discover that exhibitions, which were merely fashionable
gapeseed to her niece, were to Nuttie real delights, viewed
intelligently, and eliciting comments and questions that Lady
Kirkaldy and even her husband enjoyed in their fresh interest, but
which were unendurable weariness to Blanche, unless she had some one
to chatter with.  Lectures and lessons, which the aunt hoped to
render palatable by their being shared by the two cousins, only
served to show the difference between a trained and eager, and an
untrained and idle, nature.  With the foreign society to be met at
Lord Kirkaldy's, Blanche was less at a loss than her brother, and
could get on by the help of nods and becks and wreathed smiles; but
Nuttie, fresh from her winter abroad, could really talk, and was
often in request as a useful person to help in entertaining.  She
thus saw some of the choicest society in London, and, in addition,
had as much of the youthful gaiety as Lady Kirkaldy thought wholesome
for the two girls.  Also there were those ecclesiastical delights and
privileges which had been heard of at Micklethwayte, and were within
reach, greatly enjoyed by Mrs. Egremont whenever she could share
them, though her daughter chafed at her treating all except the chief
service on Sunday as more indulgence than duty.

Nuttie was strong, with that spring of energy which unbroken health
and a quiet life lays up, and, in her own phrase, she went in for
everything, from early services to late balls, thinking all right
because it was seldom that her day did not begin with matins or
Celebration, and because she was not taken to more than two balls a
week, and conversed at times with superior people, or looked at those
with world-famed names.  Possibly the whirl was greater than if it
had been mere gaiety, for then the brain would not have participated
in it.  Church functions, with the scurry to go at all, or to obtain
a seat, fine music, grand sermons, religious meetings, entertainments
for the poor, lectures, lessons, exhibitions, rides, drives, kettle-
drums, garden-parties, concerts, theatres, operas, balls, chattering,
laughing, discussing, reading up current subjects, enjoying
attention, excitement as to what should be done and how,--one thing
drove out another in perpetual succession, and the one thing she
never did or could do was to sit still and think!  Rest was simply
dreamless sleep, generally under the spell of a strong will to wake
at the appointed hour for church.  The short intervals of being alone
with her mother were spent in pouring out histories of her doings,
which were received with a sympathy that doubled their pleasure,
excepting when Nuttie thought proper to grumble and scold at her
mother's not coming to some Church festival at an hour when she
thought Mr. Egremont might want her.

Of him Nuttie saw very little.  He did not want her, and cared little
what she did, as long as she was under the wing of Lady Kirkaldy,
whose patronage was a triumphant refutation of all doubts.  He went
his own way, and had his own club, his own associates, and, with his
wife always at his beck and call, troubled himself very little about
anything else.

Alice spent a good deal of time alone, chiefly in waiting his
pleasure; but she had her own quiet occupations, her books, her
needlework, her housekeeping, and letter-writing, and was peacefully
happy as long as she did not displease Nuttie.  There were no
collisions between father and daughter, and the household
arrangements satisfied that fastidious taste.  She was proud of
Ursula's successes, but very thankful not to be dragged out to share
them, though she was much less shy, and more able on occasion to take
her place.

One pain she had.  Good old Mrs. Nugent was rapidly decaying, and she
shared with all her loving heart in the grief this was to Mary and to
Miss Headworth, and longed to help them in their nursing.  She would
not grieve Nuttie by dwelling constantly on the bad accounts, and the
girl hardly attended to them in the tumult of occupations; and so at
last, when the final tidings came in the second week in July, they
were an absolute shock to Nuttie, and affected her as the first grief
sometimes does.  Mrs. Nugent was really the first person of her own
intimate knowledge who had died, and in the excited state in which
she was, the idea of the contrast between her own occupations and
Mary's was so dreadful to her that she wept most bitterly, with the
sobs of childhood, such as she really did not know how to restrain.

It was an unfortunate day, for it was one of the few on which Mr.
Egremont wanted to take out his ladies.  There was to be a great
garden-party at Richmond, given by one of his former set, who had
lately whitewashed himself by marrying a very fast and fashionable
lady.  Nuttie had heard strong opinions on the subject at Lord
Kirkaldy's; but her father was quite elated at being in a position to
countenance his old friends.  Alice, in the midst of her sorrow,
recollected this with consternation.

'My dear, my dear, hush!  You must stop yourself!  Remember we have
to go out.'

'Go--out,' cried Nuttie, her sobs arrested by very horror.  'You
wouldn't go--!'

'I am afraid your father would be very much vexed--'

'Let him!  It is a horrid wicked place to go to at all; and now--when
dear, dear old Mrs. Nugent is lying there--and--'

The crying grew violent again, and in the midst in walked Mr.
Egremont with an astonished 'What is all this?'

'We have lost one of our dear kind old friends at Micklethwayte,'
said Alice, going towards him; 'dear old Mrs. Nugent,' and she lifted
up her tear-stained face, which he caressed a little and said, 'Poor
old body;' but then, at a sob, 'Can't you stop Ursula from making
such a row and disfiguring herself?  You must pick up your looks,
Edda, for I mean you to make a sensation at Jerningham's.'

'Oh, Alwyn, if you could let us stay at home!  Mrs. Nugent was so
good to us, and it does seem unkind--' The tears were in her eyes
again.

'Nonsense!' he said impatiently.  'I promised Jerningham, and it is
absurd to have you shutting yourself up for every old woman at
Micklethwayte.'

Thereupon Ursula wiped away her tears, and stood up wrathful before
him.  'I am not going,' she said.

'Oh, indeed!' he returned in a tone that made her still more angry.
'Hein'! a French ejaculation which he had the habit of uttering in a
most exasperating manner.

'No,' she said.  'It is scarcely a place to which we even ought to be
asked to go, and certainly not when--'

'Do you hear that, Mrs. Egremont?' he asked.

'Oh, Nuttie, Nuttie, dear!' she implored; 'don't.'

'No, mother,' said Nuttie, with flashing eyes; 'if you care so little
for your best friends as to let yourself be dragged out among all
sorts of gay, wicked people when your dear friend is lying dead, I'm
sure I shan't go with you.'

Her father laughed a little.  'A pretty figure you are, to make a
favour of accompanying us!'

'Oh, go away, go away, Nuttie,' entreated her mother.  'You don't
know what you are saying. '

'I do know,' said Nuttie, exasperated perhaps by the contrast in the
mirror opposite between her own swelled, disfigured face, and the
soft tender one of her mother with the liquid eyes.  'I know how much
you care for the dear friends who took care of us when we
were forsaken!'

And with this shaft she marched out of the room, while her father
again laughed, and said, 'Have they been training her for the tragic
stage?  Never mind, Edda, the little vixen will come to her senses
upstairs, and be begging to go.'

 I don't think she will,' said Alice sadly; 'she is not that sort of
stuff, and she was very fond of Mrs. Nugent.  Oh, Alwyn! if you could
let us off.'

'Not after that explosion, certainly,' he said.  'Besides, I promised
Jerningham, and such an excuse would never hold water.  She is not
even a relation.'

'No, but she was very good to me.'

'The more reason why you should not stay at home and be hipped.
Never mind that silly girl.  She will be all right by and by.'

On the contrary, she did not come down to luncheon, and when, about
an hour later, Alice, after writing a few tender loving words to the
mourners, went up to her daughter's room, it was to find a limp and
deplorable figure lying across the bed, and to be greeted with a
fresh outburst of sobs and inarticulate exclamations.

'Oh, Nuttie, dear, this will not do!  It is not right.  Dear good
Mrs. Nugent herself would tell you that this is not the way any one
so good and so suffering should be grieved for.  Think--'

'Oh, I know all that!' cried Nuttie, impatiently; 'but she--she was
the dearest--and nobody cares for her but me.  Not even you--'

Again Alice tried to debate the point, and urge on her the duties of
moderation, self-control, and obedience, but the poor gentle mother
was at a great disadvantage.

In the first place, she respected and almost envied her daughter's
resistance, and really did not know whether it was timidity or
principle that made it her instinct to act otherwise; in the next,
Ursula could always talk her down; and, in the third, she was, and
greatly she reproached herself for that same, in great dread of
setting herself off into tears that might become hysterical if she
once gave way to them.  And what would be her husband's feelings if
she too collapsed and became unpresentable.

So, having once convinced herself that even if Nuttie had been a
consenting party, no amount of cold water and eau-de-cologne would
bring those bloodshot eyes, swollen lids, and mottled cheeks to be
fit to be seen, she fled as fast as possible from the gasps of barbed
reproaches which put her own composure in peril, and dressed with the
heaviest of hearts, coupled with the utmost solicitude to look her
best.  If she had not thought it absolutely wrong, she would even
have followed Martin's suggestion, and put on a soupcon of rouge; but
by the time she was summoned to the carriage the feverishness of her
effort at self-control had done the work, and her husband had paid
her the compliment of observing that she looked pretty enough for
two.

Nuttie heard them drive off, with a burst of fresh misery of
indignation against her mother--now as a slave and a victim--now as
forgetting her old home.  It was chiefly in mutterings; she had
pretty well used up her tears, for, unconsciously perhaps, she had
worked them up as a defensive weapon against being carried to the
party; and now that the danger was over, her head throbbed, her eyes
burnt, and her throat ached too much for her to wish to cry any more.
She had not felt physically like this, since the day, seven years
ago, when she and Mildred Sharpe had been found suspiciously toying
with the key of the arithmetic, and had been debarred from trying for
the prize.  Then she felt debased and guilty; now she felt, or ought
to feel, like a heroine maintaining the right.

She got up and set herself to rights as well as she could.  Martin,
who had been allowed to know that she had lost an old friend, petted
and pitied her, and brought her a substantial meal with her tea,
after which she set out to evensong at the church at the end of the
square, well veiled under a shady hat, and with a conviction that
something ought to happen.

Nothing did, however, happen; she met no one whom she knew, the
psalms were not particularly appropriate, and her attention wandered
away to the scene at home.  She did not come back, as she was sure
she ought to have done, soothed, exhilarated, and refreshed, but
rather in a rasped state of mind, and a conscience making a vehement
struggle to believe itself in the right--a matter in which she
thoroughly succeeded.

She wrote a long letter to Mary Nugent, and shed some softer tears
over it, then she built a few castles on her future escape from the
power of her father; and then she picked up Reata, and became
absorbed in it, regretting only the weakness of her eyes, and the
darkening of the summer evening.

She was still reading when the others came home.  Her mother kissed
her, but looked so languid and tired-out that Nuttie was shocked, and
Martin declared that she ought not to go down to dinner.

A tete-a-tete dinner between father and daughter was too dreadful to
Alice's imagination to be permitted, so she dressed and went down,
looking like a ghost.  Mr. Egremont scowled at Nuttie, Nuttie scowled
at him, each considering it the fault of the other, and when at last
it was over, Alice gave up the struggle, and went off to bed, leaving
a contrite message that her headache would be better to-morrow.

'All your accursed folly and obstinacy,' observed Mr. Egremont, when
Nuttie, with a tone of monition gave him the message.

'I should call it the consequence of being dragged out with a sore
heart,' returned Nuttie--a little speech she had prepared ever since
she had seen how knocked up her mother was.

'Then I should recommend keeping your ideas to yourself,' he
answered, looking at her in his annihilating manner.

She was put down. She thought afterwards of a hundred things that she
could have said to him, but she was crushed for the present, and when
he went out she could only betake herself to Reata, and forget all
about it as much as she could.

When she went upstairs, at the end of the third volume, Martin was on
the watch, and would not let her go into the room.

'I have been at hand, ma'am, without her guessing it, and I am happy
to say her tears has had a free course when she was in bed.  Yes,
ma'am, suppressed grief is always dangerous.'

Mrs. Egremont was still prostrate with fatigue and headache the next
day, and Nuttie had all the quiet luxuriating in reminiscences she
desired.  Her father was vexed and angry, and kept out of the way,
but it must be confessed that Nuttie's spirits had so much risen by
the afternoon that it was a sore concession to consistency when she
found herself not expected at Blanche's last little afternoon dance
at Lady Kirkaldy's!





CHAPTER XX.




'If I cannot once or twice in a quarter bear out a knave against
 an honest man, I have but very little credit with your Worship.'
                                               II. King Henry IV.



Another cause besides Ursula's recalcitrance and her mother's ailment
contributed to disturb Mr. Egremont, and bring him home.  His agent,
by name Bulfinch, a solicitor at Redcastle, came to him with
irrefragable proofs of gross peculation on the part of the bailiff
who managed the home farm which supplied the house and stables, and
showed him that it was necessary to make a thorough investigation and
change of system.

In point of fact, Mr. Egremont greatly preferred being moderately
cheated to exerting himself to investigate, but this was going beyond
moderation, and the explosion had been too public to be passed over.
So he came home and sat by, while his wife and Mr. Bulfinch did the
work for him, and made it evident to him that the frauds had been of
long standing, and carried on with the connivance of the coachman, of
Gregorio,--who had before Mrs. Egremont's arrival acted as house
steward,--and of the former cook.  Indeed, it was the housekeeper
whom Mrs. Egremont had left in charge, whose refusal to connive had
brought about the discovery.

Gregorio's share in all was sufficiently evident, and Alice's heart
leapt with hope.  Her husband would be wholly her own if his evil
genius were once departed, but Mr. Egremont would not see it.  He had
no objection to sacrifice the coachman and all his underlings, with
the bailiff and his entire family, and felt none of the pity that
Alice had for the pretty, silly, half-educated daughters; but as to
the valet--Pooh! pooh! the poor fellow had been out of the way all
this time--whatever he had done had been in the dark, ages long ago,
before Bridgefield knew its mistress; he was a foreigner, and that
was enough to prevent him from forgathering with the English.  It was
all their English prejudice.

'I can show you facts and figures, sir,' said Mr. Bulfinch.

'I daresay, a year or more old.  Why, I was an unprotected carcase
then--a mere prey--the fellow only did after his kind.'

Alice held her tongue then, but made an effort in private.  'Indeed,
I don't think you know; I am afraid Gregorio is not altered.  I found
him out in his charges about the wine, and the servants' wages at
Nice, only you wouldn't listen.'

'His little perquisites, my dear child!  Come, nonsense, these
foreign fellows don't pretend to have the morals you ascribe to the
native flunkey--generally without foundation either--they are much of
a muchness as to that; but your Frenchman or Italian does it more
neatly, and is a dozen times better servant than the other is.'

'But--'

'Oh, ay!  I know you don't like him.  But he knows his manners to
you, I hope?' said Mr. Egremont, with a suddenness that made her wish
she could truthfully say he did not.

'Yes, he always is--is respectful, but somehow I see it is under
protest.'

Mr. Egremont laughed.  'Rivals--yes, I see; why, you don't consider
the sore trial of having a full-grown mistress turned in upon him!
Look here, you keep the keys already, but the new fellow at the farm
and all the rest of them shall account to you for everything--
Gregorio and all.  Won't that satisfy you?'

''Tis not only the money, but I think Gregorio is a bad--not a good--
man.'

'Ho, ho! she wants to advertise for a pious footman and coachman! eh?
No, I thank you, my dear Edda, I agree with--who was it who said,
"Volez moi, mais sans m'ennuyer."'

The Rectory likewise had hoped for Gregorio's dismissal, and there
were grave looks when Alice had to confess that nothing would move
her husband against him.  The Canon even lashed himself up to say,
'I tell you how it is, Alwyn, you'll never do any good with your
household, while you keep that fellow.'

'I am not aware what description of good you expect me to do with it,
Will,' coolly answered the elder brother in a disconcerting tone.

Poor Alice, on her side, thought of the Little Master, and then
wondered if it was uncharitable to do so.  For she knew it had become
war to the knife with Gregorio!  Whether his master told him, or
whether it were his own evil conscience, or the wonderful intuition
of servants, he certainly knew of the pressure for his dismissal, and
he visited it on her as much as he durst.

Outwardly deferential, he could thwart and annoy her in a hundred
ways, from making love to the housemaids to making evil suggestions
to his master, yet never giving her any overt cause of complaint.  He
could worry and sting her under the politest exterior, and he knew
very well that the most effectual form of annoyance was the
persuading his master that any discomfort or lassitude was to be
removed by some form of narcotic.  This would have the further
advantage of stupefying Mr. Egremont, and making him more ready to
lapse under the old influence; while the duration and strength of the
new one was already a surprise to Gregorio.

But there was no doubt that Mrs. Egremont had profited by her year of
training.  She looked tired, and less youthful and pretty, but she
had gained in grace and importance as well as in style, and was much
more really the mistress of Bridgefield.  Her shyness had passed
away, and she knew now to take her place in society, though still she
was somewhat silent.  And her husband depended upon her entirely for
all his correspondence, for much of his occupation and amusement, and
even for the regulation of his affairs.  In the household, Gregorio
was little more than his personal attendant, and she had the general
management, even of the other men-servants.  The Canoness might well
say it had turned out better than she expected.

And Nuttie had become more womanly, and had acquired the indefinable
polish given by a London season.  She had learnt the art of
conversation, and could make herself agreeable to her uncle, or to
any one else who came in her way.  Even May allowed that she had
something in her, and cultivated her more than before; but, on the
other hand, even the Rectory could perceive that there was now an
absolute alienation between her and her father, and what might before
have been fear had become dislike.  If she had to refer to him,
especially if her plans for herself or her mother were crossed, there
was always a tone of bitterness or of sarcasm about her; and her
greater boldness and freedom of speech would occasionally manifest
itself towards him.  This was not indeed often, since not only did
his cool contempt make her come off the worst in the encounters, but
the extreme distress they gave to her mother made her refrain
whenever her temper, or what she thought her conscience, would let
her; but still there was always a danger which kept poor Alice on
thorns whenever there was a possible difference of schemes or
opinions.

Mrs. William Egremont was seriously considering of representing to
Ursula that her conduct was bad taste, bad policy, and, moreover, was
doing her mother's spirits and health serious harm; but it was a
delicate matter in which to meddle, and the good lady could not make
up her mind how far to surrender her brother-in-law's character and
allow a partial justification to Ursula.  She was a cautious woman,
and waited and watched her opportunities.

In the beginning of October Mr. and Mrs. Egremont were invited to a
great shooting party at Sir James Jerningham's.  The invitation did
not include Ursula.  Perhaps she had never dawned on their hostess's
imagination; perhaps it was that Lady Jerningham was well known to
dislike girls, or any one who might absorb young men's attention.
At any rate the omission was a cause of thankfulness to the party
concerned, and she did not neglect to worry her mother by a protest
against keeping such company as would be met at Waldicotes.

Alice smiled a little faintly and said, 'I don't think it hurts me,
my dear; I don't understand half of what they talk about, and they
are always kind to me.'

'I don't think you ought to go among them or countenance them.'

'My dear child,'--and the colour rose--'I don't feel as if I had a
right to set myself above any one.'

'Mother!'

'People might have said just the same of me.'

'And whose fault was that?' muttered Nuttie under her breath, but
Mrs. Egremont would not hear.  She only pleaded, as perhaps mother
ought not to have done with child.

'You know, Nuttie, it is not for my own pleasure, but your father's
eyesight makes him dislike to go anywhere without me now; and I
really should be uneasy about him.'

'Yes; he is all you care for,' said Nuttie.  'You sacrifice
everything you used to think essential, just to his will and
pleasure.'

'Oh, Nuttie, I hope not; I don't think I do!'

'If I thought it was doing him any good I should not so much mind,'
went on the girl; 'but he is just the same, and I am always thinking
of "As the husband is, the wife is--"'

'Hush! hush!  You have no right to think in that way of your father.
I will not hear it.  I have let you say too much already, Nuttie.'
Then after a pause she added, gently and wistfully, 'You have been
better taught, and are clearer headed than ever I was, my Nuttie, and
it is quite right that you should hate what seems evil to you.  I can
only go on trying to do what seems my duty from day to day.  I know,'
she added with rising tears, 'that the sin and folly of my younger
days worked a difficult position for us both; but we can only act
according to our lights, and pray God to direct us; and please--
please bear with me, my dear one, if the same course does not always
seem right to us both.'

Nuttie had never heard her say anything so fully showing that she
realised these difficulties, and, greatly touched, she asked pardon,
kissed and caressed her mother.  There was a calm over them for the
next few days, and Nuttie actually refrained from bitter comments
when her mother was not allowed to go to evensong on Sunday, on the
plea of her being tired, but, as the girl believed, in order that she
might read the newspapers aloud.

She knew that her silence was appreciated by the way her mother
kissed her and called her a dear, good, considerate girl.

On Monday Mr. and Mrs. Egremont went away at what was a strangely
early hour for the former, Nuttie spending her days at the Rectory.

On the Tuesday Blanche went with her little sister and the governess
on a shopping expedition to Redcastle, and in relating her adventures
on her return, she said, 'Oh, by the bye, I met Annaple in Park's
shop!'

'Full of Micklethwayte news, I suppose,' said May.

'Yes, of course.  Did you know, Nuttie, that your aunt was ill?'

'No, indeed, I did not.  What was the matter?'

'Bronchitis, I believe--brown titus, as Betty Butter calls it.'

'Bronchitis!  Oh dear! oh dear!  Are you quite sure, Blanche?'

'Oh yes!  I am quite certain Annaple said Mark told her that Miss
Headworth was laid up with bronchitis.'

'And nobody has written to us all this week!' sighed Nuttie.

'I should think that a sign there could not be much in it,' observed
May; 'it may be only a bad cold.'

'But Aunt Ursel had bronchitis four years ago, and was very ill
indeed,' persisted Nuttie.  'I'm sure it is bronchitis, and that she
won't let Miss Mary write to us.'

She was in much distress about it, though May privately told her that
she ought to know Blanche's way better than to trust implicitly to
any of her reports; and her aunt said much the same thing in more
general terms, even proposing that if she did not hear the next
morning she should go over to Lescombe to ascertain what Mark had
really said.

This pacified her a little, but on her way home the alarm grew upon
her, and, moreover, she recollected the opposition that she believed
that her father was certain to make to either her mother or herself
going to nurse her aunt.  It flashed upon her that if she were to
hasten to Micklethwayte on this alarm before there could be a
prohibition, it would be no disobedience, and perfectly justifiable,
not to say noble.  Her parents were to return on Thursday evening,
and she made up her mind that, unless she were fully reassured as to
Miss Headworth's state, she would go off at once to Micklethwayte
before any one could gainsay her.  She had plenty of money, and she
consulted the time-table in the hall before going upstairs.  It only
concerned the nearest line, but she calculated that if she caught the
express, she should reach her destination in time to write to her
mother at Waldicotes, and prevent needless shocks.  Her eagerness for
the plan grew upon her, so that it seemed like liberation; she could
hardly sleep for thinking of it, and certainly was not as much
disappointed as she believed herself when the post came in--a blank.

Martin was away with her mistress, so Nuttie explained matters to the
upper housemaid, who was very sympathetic, carried down her orders
for the carriage, procured for her both breakfast and provision for
the journey, and packed her clothes.  Ursula would fain have been off
before the Rectory was aware, but the two little girls came up with a
message about the plans for the day, just as she was beginning an
explanatory note, and she entrusted to them the information that she
was so uneasy about Miss Headworth that she had decided on going to
see for herself.

So in dashed Adela and Rosalind to their mother's room full of
excitement with the news that Cousin Nuttie was gone off by the
train, because her aunt was very ill indeed.

'Gone, Adela? are you sure?  Really gone?'

'Oh yes, mamma!  The dogcart was coming round, and she said she
wanted to catch the 10.05 train, and was very sorry she had not time
to write a note to you.'

'Was there a letter?  What had she heard?'

'Oh, only that her aunt was so very ill!  She did not tell us--did
she, Rosie?'

'There was something about being in time to write to Aunt Alice,'
suggested Adela.

'I am very sorry about this.  I am afraid it will be a great shock to
Alice,' observed the mother, as she imparted the news at her
husband's dressing-room door.

'Young girls are so precipitate!' said the Canon.

'Your brother won't like it at all,' the lady continued.

'Not he.  But after all, it is just as well that he was not asked.
They do owe that poor old lady a good deal, and Alwyn's not the man
to see it.  I'm not sorry the girl took the matter into her own
hands, though I couldn't have advised it.'

'Except that it will all fall on Alice.'

'He is very fond of Alice.  She has done more with him than I ever
thought possible.  Kept him respectable this whole year, and really
it grows on him.  He makes ever so much more of her now than when he
first brought her home--and no wonder.  No, no; he won't fall foul of
her.'

'Perhaps not; but it is just as bad, or worse, for her if he falls
foul of her daughter.  Besides, she is very much attached to her
aunt.  I wish I knew what the account was, or whether she knows
anything about it.'





CHAPTER XXI.
URSULA'S RECEPTION.




'Thy wish was father, Harry, to that thought.'--SHAKESPEARE.


It was at half-past seven o'clock that Ursula Egremont's cab stopped
at St. Ambrose's Road.  She had missed the express train, and had to
come on by a stopping one.  But here at last she was, with eyes even
by gaslight full of loving recognition, a hand full of her cab-fare,
a heart full of throbbing hope and fear, a voice full of anxiety, as
she inquired of the astonished servant, 'Louisa, Louisa, how is Aunt
Ursel!' and, without awaiting the reply, she opened the adjoining
door.  There sat, with their evening meal on the table, not only Mary
Nugent, but Miss Headworth herself.

Nuttie rushed at her, and there was an incoherency of exclamations,
the first thing that made itself clear to the senses of the traveller
being, 'Ill, my dear?  No such thing!  Only I had a bad cold, and
Mary here is only too careful of me.'

'But Mark said you had bronchitis.'

'What could have put that into his head?  He did not write it,
surely?'

'He wrote it to Annaple Ruthven, and she told Blanche.'

'Oh!' and Mary Nugent's tone was rather nettling.

'And then it was such a terrible time since we had heard anything,'
added Nuttie, on the defensive.

'Did not your mother get my letter?' said Miss Headworth.  'I wrote
to her at--what's the name of that place?  I hope I addressed it
right.'

'Oh, but I was not there.  I didn't go with them.'

'Ah, yes, I remember.  Then did not she send you?'

'No, I came off this morning.  I heard this yesterday evening, and I
determined that nothing should stop me if there was no news by the
post.'

'Dear child!  But will your father not be displeased?' said Miss
Headworth.

'He hasn't any right to object,' cried Nuttie, with flashing eyes and
a look that made Miss Nugent anxious; but at the moment there could
be little thought save of welcome to the warm-hearted girl.  Louisa
was already brewing fresh tea, and extemporising additions to the
meal, and Nuttie was explaining how she hoped to have arrived a
couple of hours sooner.

'By the bye, I meant to have written to mother for her to have it to-
morrow before leaving Waldicotes.  Is there time?'

No, the pillar at hand was cleared at seven, and the regular post-
office could not be reached in time; so they satisfied themselves
with the knowledge that Mrs. Egremont must have had Aunt Ursel's
cheerful letter, and Mary recommended telegraphing to the Canon the
first thing in the morning.  Then they gave themselves up to
enjoyment.

'At any rate, I'm here,' said Nuttie, 'and I'll make the most of it.'

And her handsome furs were laid aside, and her boots taken off, and
she resigned herself to absolute ease and luxury, while Mary poured
out the tea, and her aunt heaped her plate with eggs and rashers
'such as one doesn't get anywhere else,' said Nuttie, declaring
herself quite voracious, while her aunt fondly admired her growth and
improvement, and she inquired into the cold, not quite gone yet; and
there were speculations over what Mark could have got into his head.
Mary remembered having met him coming to call, and having told him
that she had persuaded Miss Headworth to keep her bed because her
colds were apt to be severe, and it was agreed to lay the
exaggeration at the door of the lovers and Blanche.  Miss Headworth
laughed, and said she ought to be flattered that an old woman's sore
throat should be thought worthy of mention by a fine young gentleman
like Mr. Mark.  'A very good young man he is,' she added.  'You would
never have thought how kind he is in coming in here to tell me
everything he hears about your dear mother, Nuttie.'

'He makes himself very useful while Mr. Dutton is away,' added Mary,
'taking his young men's class and all.'

'Oh! is Mr. Dutton away?'

'Yes; he has had to be in London a great deal of late.  I am afraid
he may have to live there altogether.'

'What a grievous pity!'

'He won't be anywhere without doing good,' said Miss Headworth, 'but
I sometimes wish we had his cool good sense here.'

'And how is Mr. Spyers,' asked Nuttie.  She felt shy of asking for
Gerard Godfrey, or perhaps she thought she ought to be shy of his
name, and kept hoping that it would come in naturally.

'Mr. Spyers is very well.  Very busy of course, and very much
delighted with your mother's gifts to the church.  All her own work,
isn't it, Nuttie?'

'Yes; every bit.  She does lots of embroidery and work of all kinds
when she is waiting for _him_ or sitting with him, and luckily it has
never occurred to him to ask what it is for.'

The two ladies knew well what was meant by him, but they would not
pursue the subject, and proceeded to put Nuttie au courant with St.
Ambrose affairs--how last year's mission had produced apparently an
immense effect in the town, and how the improvement had been ebbing
ever since, but had left various individual gains, and stirred up
more than one good person who had hitherto thought it enough to save
one's own soul and let other people alone; how Mr. Spyers was
endeavouring to bind people together in a guild; how a violent gust
of temperance orators had come down upon the place, and altogether
fascinated and carried away Gerard Godfrey.

There was his name at last, and Nuttie was rather gratified to feel
herself blushing as she asked, 'Ah! poor Gerard--how is he?'

'As good and sincere as ever,' said Miss Nugent, 'but not much wiser.
He is so excitable and vehement.'

'Yes,' said Miss Headworth.  'I don't understand the kind of thing.
In my time a steady young clerk used to be contented after hours with
playing at cricket in the summer, or learning the flute in the
winter--and a great nuisance it was sometimes, but now Gerard must
get himself made a sort of half clergyman.'

'A reader,' suggested Mary.

'Minor orders.  Oh, how delightful!' cried Nuttie.

'People, don't half understand it,' added Miss Headworth.  'Mrs.
Jeffreys will have it that he is no better than a Jesuit, and really
I did not know what to say, for he talked, to me by the hour about
his being an external brother to something.'

'Not to the Jesuits, certainly,' said Nuttie.

'Yes, I told her that; but she thinks all monks are Jesuits, you
know, and that all brothers are monks; and he does wear his cassock--
his choir cassock, I mean--when he has his service in the iron room
at the sandpits.  And now he has taken up temperance, and flies about
giving the pledge, and wanting one to wear bits of blue ribbon.  I
told him I never did take, and never had taken, more than a little
hot wine and water when I had a cold, and I couldn't see what good it
would do to George Jenkins and the poor fellows at the Spread Eagle
if I took ever so many vows.'

'There's a regular blue-ribbon fever set in,' said Miss Nugent.
'Gerard told me I was supporting the cause of intemperance yesterday
because I was so wicked as to carry the rest of your bottle of port,
Miss Headworth, to poor Anne Crake.'

'Well! he is a dear boy, and youth wouldn't be youth if it were not
sometimes rather foolish,' said Miss Headworth, 'and it is better it
should be for good than evil.'

'Eager in a cause and not for selfishness,' said Mary.  'Poor Gerard,
I wonder where he will be safely landed!'

So did Nuttie, who had a secret flattering faith in being the cause
of all the poor young fellow's aberrations, and was conscious of
having begun the second volume of her life's novel.  She went to bed
in the elated frame of mind proper to a heroine.  There was a shade
over all in the absence of dear old Mrs. Nugent, and in Mary's deep
mourning, but there is more tenderness than poignancy in sorrow for
shocks of corn gathered in full season, and all was cheerful about
her.

She had quite a triumph the next day, as old friends dropped in for
the chance of seeing her.  The least agreeable encounter was that
with Mark, who came in on his way to the office, having just received
by the second post a letter from his father inquiring into Miss
Headworth's state.  He met Nuttie in the vestibule, with her hat on,
and in a great hurry, as she wanted to walk with Mary to the School
of Art, Gerard Godfrey accompanying them as far as the office; and
she did not at all like the being called to account, and asked what
could have possessed her to take alarm.

'Why, you wrote yourself!'

'I!'

'To Annaple Ruthven.'

'What am I supposed to have written?'

'That Aunt Ursel was very ill with bronchitis.'

'I'll be bound that Miss Ruthven said no such thing.  You don't
pretend that you heard it from herself?'

'No; but Blanche did.'

'Blanche!  Oh, that accounts for it!  Though I should have thought
you knew Blanche by this time.'

'But what did you say?'

'I believe I said I couldn't get a knitting pattern Miss Headworth
was to send Lady Ronnisglen because she was in bed with a cold.  What
you and Blanche could contrive to make of a simple thing like that--'

'And Annaple!'

'Well,' but checking himself with a smile, 'we will not fight about
that.  I only hope it has not brought you into an awkward scrape,
Nuttie.'

'I can't help that,' she answered with her head rather high.

'You have written and explained?' he said anxiously.

'To my mother, of course.'

'If I were you,' he said, lowering his voice, 'I should write or send
a special message to your father.'

'I can't see why.  It was a mistake.'

'Yours was a strong measure, and he won't like it.  Be advised,
Nuttie.  Recollect your mother.  The best way would be to go home at
once.  I could get a day to take you--if you would start this
afternoon.'

'Thank you; I'm not going back till I hear,' she said proudly.

Time being up, Mark took his leave hastily, and as he shut the door,
Nuttie uttered half aloud the words she had scarcely repressed, 'No,
I thank you, Mr. Mark, I am not going back like a dog in a string.'

'What, was that what he expected of you?' said Gerard Godfrey, whom
she had not intended to hear her, but who had come out of the
sitting-room on the sounds of departure.

'He said he would take me home if I could go at once.'

'Wouldn't he have liked it!' exclaimed Gerard.

'It might be the best way,' said Miss Nugent, who had followed young
Godfrey.

'Now, Miss Mary,' cried Nuttie, 'as if I could shorten my holiday now
that I have it.'

'And I don't see what business he had to call you to account,' said
Gerard.  'A stuck-up fellow.'

'Of course all the Egremonts are set against my being here,' said
Nuttie.

'I thought the Canon offered to bring you last year,' said Mary
gently.

'Oh, that was only to Monks Horton!  It would have been simply
tantalising.'

'Lady Kirkaldy is an excellent person,' said Miss Nugent.

'Is she at home now?' asked Ursula.

'Coming next week, they tell me,' said Gerard.

'He--your cousin--will always be loafing up there now, giving up all
that he had undertaken, I suppose.'

'Not very likely,' said Mary quietly.

It is a mere Scottish anti-church influence,' said Gerard, turning
round at the swing-door of his office.  'Why else will Egremont not
take the pledge?'

Wherewith he disappeared, blue ribbon and all, while Mary smiled,
though she was vexed; and Nuttie observed, 'Poor Gerard; but I can't
see why he should be jealous of Mark _now_.'

Mary did not choose to understand what Nuttie implied in her
simplicity, and made answer, 'He is rather blue ribbon mad.  Besides,
I am afraid the fact of being a "swell" does not conduce to your
cousin's popularity among the clerks.'

'Surely he does not give himself airs,' said Ursula, her family
feelings awaking.

'No; but I fancy he is rather reserved.'

'What's this about giving up what he has undertaken?  What is it?'

'When Mr. Dutton went to London, he asked Mark to take his Sunday
afternoons with the big lads.  He thought they wanted some one with
more resources and variety than there is in poor Gerard, who didn't
at all like being passed over.'

'I never should have thought it of Mark.  He never dreamt of teaching
anybody at home.'

'Very likely not, but there is an atmosphere at St. Ambrose's.'

'And oh, how glad I am to be in it!  I wonder how long they will let
me stay!  The dear little mother will try to get me a Sunday here, if
she dares.  Indeed, I can't hear before Saturday, and then there
would hardly be time to get home!  Oh, that's jolly!  I'll go to the
nursery gardens, and get _such_ flowers for the vases!'

Saturday brought Nuttie a letter, but not from her mother--


'My Dear Ursula--I write because we are anxious to keep your mother
as quiet as possible.  It was a serious shock to her to find that you
had left home, and she naturally supposed that Miss Headworth was in
great danger.  Your father was greatly displeased, and she has been
much overcome, and very unwell, but we hope by keeping her perfectly
quiet that worse consequences may be prevented.  Your father desires
you to remain where you are for the present, as he will not have her
disturbed again.  Your mother sends her love both to you and to your
aunt, and desires me to say that she will write in a day or two, and
that she thinks you had better not come back till she is better and
your father's vexation has diminished.

'I wish you had informed us of your intentions, as then we could have
ascertained the grounds of the report that terrified you so
strangely.--I remain your affectionate aunt,
                                         JANE M. EGREMONT.'


'Poor mother! he has been sneering at us all in his dreadful cynical
way, and knocked her up into one of her awful headaches,' said
Nuttie, who felt extremely angered by the grave tone of rebuke in the
letter, and tossed it over to her aunt without absolutely reading it
all.  Miss Headworth was a good deal distressed, and anxious to know
what Mrs. William Egremont meant; but Nuttie positively declared,
'Oh, it is her headaches!  You know she always had them more or less,
and they have grown a great deal worse since she has taken to sitting
in that horrid, stuffy, perfumy, cigar-ry room, and doesn't take half
exercise enough.'

And when Miss Headworth showed herself much concerned about the state
of things, Nuttie coaxed her, and declared that she should fancy
herself unwelcome, and have to go and beg a lodging somewhere instead
of enjoying her reprieve.  And Aunt Ursel was far less impervious to
coaxing than she used to be when she was the responsible head of a
boarding house.  She did most thoroughly enjoy the affection of her
great niece, and could not persuade herself to be angry with her,
especially when the girl looked up smiling and said, 'If the worst
came to the worst and he did disinherit me, the thing would only
right itself.  I always meant to give it back to Mark.'

No great aunt in the world could fail to admire the generous spirit
of the girl who came back from the great world of luxury, so loving
and happy in her humble surroundings.  The only sighs were for poor
Alice, in the hands of a man of whom Miss Headworth knew so much
evil.  If she were not wretched and a victim--and Nuttie did not
think her such--she must surely be getting spoilt and worldly.  Her
daughter implied fears of this kind, yet who could read her letters
and think so?

Nuttie was fortunately too much in awe of the Canoness to write all
the pertnesses that tingled at her fingers' ends, and she sent a
proper and fairly meek letter, intimating, however, that she was only
too happy to remain at Micklethwayte.

It was two or three days more before she heard again.


'My Own Dear Child--They have let me write at last, and I can say how
much I like to think of your nestling up to dear Aunt Ursel, and how
glad I am to find that she was well enough to enjoy you. It is almost
like being there to hear of you, and the only thing that grieves me
is that your father was very much vexed at your setting off in that
sudden way, and at my being so foolish about it.  His eyes have been
very bad, and he missed me sadly while I was laid up.  We are neither
of us very strong, and we think--if Aunt Ursel and Mary can keep you
for a little longer--it will be better for you to stay on with them,
as it might be as dreary for you as it was last winter, especially as
the Rectory folk will soon be going into residence.  I will write to
them about it and persuade them to take something for your board, so
as to make it easy for them.  And then you can have a fire in your
room; you must not leave it off now you are used to it.  My dear, I
wish you would write a little apology to your father.  I ought not to
conceal that he is really very angry, and I think it would be well if
you expressed some regret, or if you cannot truthfully do that, asked
his pardon for your impetuosity; for you know he cannot be expected
to realise all that dear Aunt Ursel is to us.  You cannot think how
kind your Aunt Jane has been to me; I did not think she could have
been so tender.  This is the first letter I ever had to write to you,
my own dear child.  I miss you every moment, but after all it is
better you should be away till your father has overlooked this
hurried expedition of yours.  I am sure he would if you wrote him a
real nice letter, telling how you were really frightened, and that it
was not a mere excuse.  Pray do, and then you can come back to your
loving little mother.
                                'A. E.'


'As if I would or could,' quoth Nuttie to herself.  'Apologise to him
indeed, for loving the aunt who toiled for us when he deserted us.
Poor little mother, she can't really expect it of me.  Indeed, I
don't think she quite knows what she wants, or whether she likes me
to be here or at Bridgefield!  My belief is that he bullies her less
when I am out of the way, because she just gives way to him, and does
not assert any principle.  I've tried to back her up, and it is of no
use, and I am sure I don't want such a winter as the last.  So I am
much better here; and as to begging pardon, when I have done nothing
wrong, I am sure I won't, to please anybody.  I shall tell her that
she ought to know me better than to expect it!'

But Nuttie did not show the letter either to Aunt Ursel or Mary
Nugent; nor did she see that in which Alice had satisfied them that
it might be better that her daughter should pay them a long visit,
while Mr. Egremont's health required constant attendance, and the
Canon's family were at Redcastle.  And as her husband was always
open-handed, she could make Ursula's stay with them advantageous to
their slender means, without hurting their feelings.

She told them as much as she could, but there was more that no living
creature might know, namely, the advantage that Gregorio had gained
over that battlefield, his master, during her days of illness.  The
first cold weather had brought on pain, and anger and anxiety,
nervous excitement and sleeplessness, which the valet had taken upon
him to calm with a narcotic under a new name that at first deceived
her till she traced its effects, and inquired of Dr. Hammond about
it.  Unwillingly, on her account, he enlightened her, and showed her
that, though the last year's care had done much to loosen the bonds
of the subtle and alluring habit, yet that any resumption of it
tended to plunge its victim into the fatal condition of the confirmed
opium-eater, giving her every hope at the same time that this
propensity might be entirely shaken off, and that the improvement in
Mr. Egremont's health and habits which had set in might be confirmed,
and raise him above the inclination.

Could she have been rid of Gregorio, she would have felt almost sure
of victory; but as it was, she believed the man absolutely meant to
baffle her, partly out of a spiteful rivalry, partly because his
master's torpid indolence could be used to his own advantage.  She
was absolutely certain that his sneering tone of remark made her
husband doubly disinclined to let any religious book be near, or to
permit her to draw him to any Sunday observance.

The battle must be fought out alone.  The gentle woman could have no
earthly helper in the struggle.  The Canon and Mark, the only persons
who could have given her the slightest aid, were both at a distance,
even if her loyal heart could have brooked confession to them, and
she only hoped that Nuttie would never know of it.  Only aid from
above could be with her in the daily, hourly effort of cheerfulness,
patience, and all the resources of feminine affection, to avert the
temptation; and she well knew that the presence of the ardent,
unsubdued, opinionative girl would, alas! only double the
difficulties.  So she acquiesced, at least for the present, in
Nuttie's grand achievement of having broken away from all the wealth
and luxury of Bridgefield to return to her simple home and good old
aunt.  Mark was a good deal vexed, but Nuttie did not care about
that, attributing this displeasure to Egremont clanship; Mary Nugent
was doubtful and anxious, and thought it her duty to reconcile
herself to her father; but Miss Headworth, who, be it remembered, had
reason to have the worst impressions of Mr. Egremont, rejoiced in her
young niece having escaped from him for the time, and only sighed
over the impossibility of Alice's doing the same.  And when Nuttie
described, as she constantly did, the various pleasures she had
enjoyed during the past year, the good old lady secretly viewed her
as a noble Christian heroine for resigning all this in favour of the
quiet little home at Micklethwayte, though reticent before her, and
discussed her excellence whenever she was alone with Mary.

Nor would Miss Nugent vex her with contradictions or hints that what
Nuttie was giving up at present might be a dull house, with her
mother engrossed by an irritable semi-invalid, and the few gaieties
to be enjoyed by the help of the Canon's family at Redcastle.  She
did ask the girl whether Mrs. Egremont, being avowedly not quite
well, might not need her assistance; but Nuttie vehemently disavowed
being of any possible use to her father; he never let her read to
him! oh no! he called her music schoolgirly, a mere infliction; he
never spoke to her if he could help it, and then it was always with a
sort of sneer; she believed he could not bear the sight of her, and
was ashamed of it, as well he might be!  For Mrs. Houghton's
disclosures had rankled ever since within her, and had been confirmed
by her aunt.

'But that is very sad,' said Mary.  'I am so sorry for you.  Ought
you not to try hard to conquer his distaste?'

'I--why, he cares for nothing good!'

'Nay,' smiling.  'Not for your mother?'

'Oh!  She's pretty, you know; besides, she makes herself a regular
slave to him, and truckles to him in everything, as I could never
do.'

'Perhaps she is overcoming evil with good.'

'I am afraid it is more like being overcome of evil.  No, no, dear
Miss Mary, don't be shocked.  The dear little mother never would be
anything but good in her own sweet self, but it is her nature not to
stand up for anything, you know.  She seems to me just like a
Christian woman that has been obliged to marry some Paynim knight.
And it perfectly provokes me to see her quite gratified at his
notice, and ready to sacrifice anything to him, now I know how he
treated her.  If I had been in her place, I wouldn't have gone back
to him; no, not if he had been ready to crown me after I was dead,
like Ines de Castro.'

'I don't know that you would have had much choice in that case.'

'My very ghost would have rebelled,' said Nuttie, laughing a little.

And Mary could believe that Mrs. Egremont, with all her love for her
daughter, might find it a relief not to have to keep the peace
between the father and child.  'Yet,' she said to herself, 'if Mr.
Dutton were here, he would have taken her back the first day.'





CHAPTER XXII.
DISENCHANTMENT.




'He promised to buy me a bunch of blue ribbons.'


St. Ambrose's road was perfectly delightful as long as there was any
expectation of a speedy recall.  Every day was precious; every
meeting with an old face was joyful; each interchange of words with
Mr. Spyers or Gerard Godfrey was hailed as a boon; nothing was
regretted but the absence of Monsieur and his master, and that the
favourite choir boy's voice was cracked.

But when there was reason to think that success had been complete,
when Miss Headworth had been persuaded by Mary that it was wiser on
all accounts not to mortify Alice by refusing the two guineas a week
offered for Miss Egremont's expenses; when a couple of boxes of
clothes and books had arrived, and Ursula found herself settled at
Micklethwayte till after Christmas, she began first to admit to
herself that somehow the place was not all that it had once been to
her.

Her mother was absent, that was one thing.  Mrs. Nugent was gone,
that was another.  There was no Monsieur or Mr. Dutton to keep her in
awe of his precision, even while she laughed at it.  There were no
boarders to patronise and play with, and her education at the High
School was over.  If she saw a half-clothed child, it was not half so
interesting to buy an ulster in the next shop, as it was to turn over
the family rag-bag, knit, sew, and contrive!  Somehow things had a
weariness in them, and the little excitements did not seem to be the
exquisite delights they used to be.  After having seen Patience at
the Princess's it was not easy to avoid criticising a provincial Lady
Jane, and it was the like with other things of more importance.  Even
the ritual of St. Ambrose's Church no longer struck her as the ne
plus ultra of beauty, and only incited her to describe London
churches.

She resumed her Sunday-school classes, and though she talked at first
of their raciness and freedom, she soon longed after the cleanliness,
respectfulness, and docility of the despised little Bridgefordites,
and uttered bitter things of Micklethwayte turbulence, declaring--
perhaps not without truth--that the children had grown much worse in
her absence.

And as Mr. Godfrey had been superintendent during the latter half of
the time, this was a cruel stroke.  He wanted to make her reverse her
opinions.  And they never met without 'Now, Ursula, don't you
remember Jem Burton putting on Miss Pope's spectacles, and grinning
at all the class.'

'Yes; and how Mr. Dutton brought him up to beg her pardon.  Now, was
any notice taken when that horrid boy--I don't know his name--turned
the hymn they were saying to her into "Tommy, make room for your
uncle"?'

'Oh, Albert Cox!  It is no use doing anything to him, he would go off
at once to the Primitives.'

'Let him!'

'I cannot make him a schismatic.'

'I wonder what he is now!'

'Besides, Miss Pope perfectly provokes impertinence.'

'Then I wouldn't give her work she can't do.'

Such an argument as this might be very well at the moment of
provocation, but it became tedious when recurred to at every meeting.
Nuttie began to wonder when Monks Horton would be inhabited again,
and how much notice Lady Kirkaldy would take of her, and she was a
good deal disappointed when Mark told her that Lord Kirkaldy had been
begged to undertake a diplomatic mission which would keep them abroad
all the winter.

There was a certain weariness and want of interest.  It was not
exactly that there was nothing intellectual going on.  There were the
lectures, but they were on chemistry, for which Nuttie cared little.
There were good solid books, and lively ones too, but they seemed
passe to one who had heard them discussed in town.  Mary and Miss
Headworth read and talked them over, and perhaps their opinions were
quite as wise, and Miss Nugent's conversation was equal to that of
any of Nuttie's London friends, but it was only woman's talk after
all--the brilliancy and piquancy, the touch and go, she had enjoyed
in Lady Kirkaldy's drawing-room was lacking.

Mr. Spyers was too much immersed in parish matters to read anything
secular, and neither he nor Gerard Godfrey seemed ever to talk of
anything but parish matters.  There was not the slightest interest in
anything beyond.  Foreign politics, European celebrities,--things in
which Nuttie had learnt to take warm interest when with the
Kirkaldys, were nothing to them.  Even Mary wondered at her
endeavours to see the day's paper, and she never obtained either
information or sympathy unless she came across Mark.  It seemed to
her that Gerard cared less for the peace or war of an empire than for
a tipsy cobbler taking the pledge.  The monotony and narrowness of
the world where she had once been so happy fretted and wearied her,
though she was ashamed of herself all the time, and far too proud to
allow that she was tired of it all.  Aunt Ursel at her best had
always been a little dry and grave, an authority over the two nieces;
and though softened, she was not expansive, did not invite
confidences, and home was not home without the playfellow-mother.

And most especially was she daily tired of Gerard Godfrey!  Had he
always talked of nothing but 'the colours,' chants, E. C. U.,
classes, and teetotalism?  Whatever she began it always came back to
one or other of these subjects, and when she impatiently declared
that she was perfectly sick of hearing of the Use of Sarum, he looked
at her as guilty of a profanity.

Perhaps it was true that he was narrower than he had been.  He was a
good, honest, religiously-minded lad, but with no great depth or
grasp of intellect; Ursula Egremont had been his companion first and
then his romance, and the atmosphere of the community in which he
lived had been studious and intelligent.  His expedition to Redcastle
had convinced him that the young lady lived in a different world,
entirely beyond his reach, and in the reaction of his hopelessness,
he had thrown himself into the excitement of the mission, and it had
worked on him a zealous purpose to dedicate himself totally to a
religious life, giving up all worldly aims, and employing the small
capital he could call his own in preparing for the ministry.  Mr.
Dutton had insisted that he should test his own steadfastness and
resolution by another year's work in his present situation before he
took any steps.

He had submitted, but still viewed himself as dedicated, and so far
as business hours permitted, gave his services like a clerical pupil
to St. Ambrose's with the greatest energy, and perhaps somewhat less
judgment than if Mr. Dutton had been at hand.  Being without natural
taste for intellectual pursuits, unless drawn into them by his
surroundings, he had dropped them entirely, and read nothing but the
ephemeral controversial literature of his party, and not much of
that, for he was teaching, preaching, exhorting, throughout his spare
time; while the vicar was in too great need of help to insist on
deepening the source from which his zealous assistant drew.  As Miss
Nugent observed, teetotalism was to him what dissipation was to other
young men.

On this vehemence of purpose descended suddenly Ursula Egremont once
more; and the human heart could not but be quickened with the idea,
not entirely unfounded, that it was to him that she had flown back,
and that her exile proved that she cared for him more than for all
the delights she had enjoyed as heiress of Bridgefield.  The good
youth was conscientious to the back-bone, and extremely perplexed
between his self-dedication and the rights that their implied
understanding might give to her.  Was she to be the crowning blessing
of his life, to be saved partly through his affection from worldly
trials and temptations, and bestowing on him a brilliant lot in which
boundless good could be effected?  Or was she a syren luring him to
abandon his higher and better purposes?

The first few days of her stay, the former belief made him feel like
treading on air, or like the hero of many a magazine story; but as
time went on this flattering supposition began to fail him, when
Nuttie showed her weariness of the subjects which, in his
exclusiveness, he deemed the only ones worthy of a Christian, or
rather of a Catholic.  Both of them had outgrown the lively, aimless
chatter and little jests that had succeeded the games of childhood,
and the growth had been in different directions, so that Ursula felt
herself untrue to her old romance when she became weary of his
favourite topics, disappointed by his want of sympathy and
comprehension, fretted by his petty disapprovals, and annoyed by his
evident distaste for Mark, to whom she turned as to one of her proper
world.

At last, after many tossings, Gerard fixed upon a test.  If she
endured it she would be the veritable maiden of his imagination, and
they would stand by one another, come what would; if not, he would
believe that the past had been fancy, not love, or love that had not
withstood the attractions of fashionable life.  A great temperance
meeting was coming on, and Gerard, eager at once to fill the room,
and to present a goodly roll of recruits, watched anxiously for his
moment, and came on Nuttie with his hands full of bills in huge
letters, and his pockets of badges.

'Excellent speakers,' he cried.  'We shall have the hall crowded.
You'll come, Ursula?'

'I don't know what Miss Mary will do.  I don't think she means it.'

'Oh, if you insist, if we both insist, she will.  Look at the paper--
we are to have some splendid experiences.'

Nuttie made a face.  'I've heard all about those,' she said.  'That
man,' pointing to one of the names, 'regularly rants about it; he is
like a madman.'

'He does go rather far, but it is quite necessary, as you will hear.
Oh, Nuttie, if you would only be one of us!  I've brought a card!  If
you would!'

'Why, what's the use, Gerard!  I don't like wine, I never do drink
it, except a little claret-cup sometimes when I can't get water.'

'Then it would cost you nothing.'

'Yes, it would.  It would make me ridiculous.'

'You used not to heed the sneers of the world.'

'Not for anything worth doing--but this is not.'

'It is the greatest cause of the day!' he cried, in an eager exalted
manner, which somewhat inclined her to laugh.  'Do away with alcohol
and you would do away with crime!'

'Thank you for the compliment, Gerard; I never found that the
infinitesimal drop of alcohol that I suppose there is in a tumbler of
claret-cup disposed me to commit crimes.'

'Why won't you understand me, Ursula!  Can't you give up that for the
sake of saving others!'

'I wonder whom it would save.'

'Example saves!  If you put on this'--taking out the badge--'how many
should you not lead at your home?'

'Just nobody!  Mother and I should have a bad time of it, that's
all.'

'And if you endured, what would not your testimony effect in the
household and village?'

'Nothing!  I have nothing to do with the men-servants, and as to the
village, it is very sober.  There's only one public house, and that
is kept by Uncle William's old butler, and is as orderly as can be.'

'Ah! that's the way you all deceive yourselves.  Moderate drinkers
are ten times more mischievous than regular drunkards.'

'Thank you, Gerard!  And outrageous abstainers are more mischievous
than either of them, because they make the whole thing so utterly
foolish and absurd.'  She was really angry now, and so was Gerard.

'Is that your ultimatum?' he asked, in a voice that he strove to
render calm.

'Certainly; I'm not going to take the pledge.'

Having quarrelled in childhood, made quarrelling now easier, and
Gerard answered bitterly:

'Very well, I hope you will have no cause to repent it.'

''Tis not the way to make me repent it, to see how it seems to affect
some people's common sense.  It is just as if all your brains had run
to water!' said Nuttie, laughing a little; but Gerard was desperately
serious, and coloured vehemently.

'Very well, Miss Egremont, I understand.  I have had my answer,' he
said, gathering up his papers and marching out of the room.

She stood still, offended, and not in the least inclined to run after
him and take back her words.  He, poor fellow, stumbled down the
steps, and held by the garden rail to collect his senses and compose
himself.

'What's the matter, Gerard, are you ill or giddy?' asked Miss Nugent,
coming up in the winter twilight.

'No, oh no!  Only the dream of my life is over,' he answered, scarce
knowing what he said.

'You haven't--' cried Mary aghast.

'Oh no,' he said, understanding the blank, 'only she won't take the
pledge!'

'I don't see how she could or ought,' responded Mary.  'Is that all?'

'I had made it the test,' muttered poor Gerard.  'It is right!  It is
all over now.  I shall know how to go on my way.  It is best so--I
know it is--only I did not know whether anything was due to her.'  It
was almost a sob.

'Dear old Gerard,' said Mary, 'I see you meant to do right.  It is
well your mind should be settled.  I think you'll find comfort in
your good work.'

He wrung her hand, and she went in, half amused, for she was fully
aware of the one-sidedness of the mania for temperance under which he
acted, yet honouring his high, pure motives, and rejoicing that he
had found this indirect mode of gauging Nuttie's feelings towards
him--that is, if he was right about them, and there was no revulsion.

Far from it.  Nuttie was still angry.  'Gerard had been so
ridiculous,' she said, 'teasing her to take the pledge, and quite
incapable of understanding her reasons.  I can't think why Gerard has
grown so stupid.'

'Enthusiasms carry people away,' returned Mary.

'If Mr. Dutton had only stayed, he would have kept Gerard like
himself,' said Nuttie.

But there was no relenting.  The two young people avoided each other;
and perhaps Nuttie was secretly relieved that the romance she had
outgrown no longer entangled her.





CHAPTER XXIII.
A FAILURE.




'Would I had loved her more!'--Mrs. Hemans.


'On the 14th of January, at Bridgefield Egremont, the wife of Alwyn
Piercefield Egremont, Esquire, a son and heir.'

Ursula had been prepared for this event for about a fortnight by a
long tender letter from her mother, mourning over the not meeting at
Christmas, and the long separation, but saying that she had wished to
spare the long anxiety, and that it had been a trying time which she
felt herself able to cope with better alone, than even with her dear
Nuttie, knowing her to be happy and safe with Aunt Ursel.  Now, if
all went well, they would have a happy meeting, and begin on a new
score.  'If the will of God should be otherwise,' added Alice, 'I am
sure I need not entreat my Nuttie to do and be all that she can to
her father.  My child, you do not know how sorely he needs such love
and tendance and prayer as you can give him.  I know you have thought
I have set you aside--if not better things, for his sake.  Indeed I
could not help it.'  Then there was something tear-stained and
blotted out, and it ended with, 'He is beginning to miss your step
and voice about the house.  I believe he will really be glad to see
you, when the bright spring days come, and I can kiss my own Nuttie
again.'

Nuttie was very much delighted, but a little hurt that her aunt and
Mary should have been in the secret, and pledged to say nothing to
her till her mother should write.  She found, moreover, that Miss
Headworth was extremely anxious and not altogether reassured by Mrs.
William Egremont's letter of announcement, which filled Nuttie with
delight.  How happy the little mother must be to have a baby in her
arms again, and though she herself did not profess to have a strong
turn for infant humanity, it was the greatest possible relief to be
no longer an heiress, excepting that the renunciation in favour of
Mark was no longer practicable.

The residence at Redcastle was not over, but the Canoness had come to
nurse her sister-in-law, and kept up the correspondence.  The son and
heir was reported to be a perfect specimen, and his father was
greatly elated and delighted, but the letters showed anxiety about
the mother, who did not get on as she ought, and seemed to have no
power of rally about her.  At length came a letter that seemed to
burn itself into Nuttie's brain--


'My Dear Ursula--Your mother is longing to see you.  You had better
come home directly.  Your aunt saved her before.  Tell her if she
will come, she shall have my deepest gratitude.  I shall send to meet
the 5.11 train.--Your affectionate father,
                                       A. P. EGREMONT.'


Mrs. William Egremont wrote at more length.  Symptoms had set in
which filled the doctors and nurses with double anxiety.  Advice had
been sent for from London, and Mr. Egremont was in an uncontrollable
state of distress.  She had undertaken to summon Ursula home, and to
beg Miss Headworth to undertake the journey.  She evidently did not
know that her brother-in-law had written himself, and before they
could start a telegram terrified them, but proved to contain no fresh
tidings, only a renewed summons.

Miss Headworth forgot all her resolutions about Mr. Egremont's
hospitality--her Alice was her only thought, and all the remedies
that had been found efficacious at Dieppe.  The good lady had a
certain confidence in her own nursing and experience of Alice, which
buoyed her up with hope, while Ursula seemed absolutely stunned.  She
had never thought of such a frightful loss or grief, and her mental
senses were almost paralysed, so that she went through the journey in
a kind of surface trance, observing all around her much as usual,
looking out for the luggage and for the servant who had come to meet
them with the report 'No change.'  She did the honours of the
carriage, and covered Miss Headworth with the fur rug.  They wanted
it, for they were shivering with anxiety.

Canon Egremont came out to the front hall to meet them, and put his
arms round Nuttie tenderly, saying, 'My poor dear child!' then as he
saw he had frightened them, 'No, no!  She is alive--conscious they
say, only so very weak.'  Then with something of his usual urbane
grace, he held out his hand, 'Miss Headworth, it is very good in you
to come.  You have a great deal to forgive.'

He took them into the tent-room, where tea was standing, interrupting
himself in the account he was giving to bid Nuttie let her aunt have
some.  It was plain from his manner that he had given up hope, and in
another minute in hurried his brother, looking terribly haggard and
with bloodshot eyes, giving his hand to each, with, 'That's right,
Miss Headworth, thank you.  Come, let me know what you think of her!'

'Does she know they are come?' said the Canon.  'No?  Then, Alwyn,
let them have some tea, and take off their things.  I can tell you,
the nurses will never let them in just off a journey.'

Miss Headworth seconded this, and Mr. Egremont submitted, allowing
that she had not asked for Nuttie since the morning, and then had
smiled and squeezed his hand when he said she was coming with her
aunt; but he walked up and down in direful restlessness, his whole
mind apparently bent on extracting from Miss Headworth that she had
been as ill or worse at Dieppe.

Alas! when Mrs. William Egremont came down to fetch Nuttie; there was
no question that matters were much worse.  The sweet face was
perfectly white and wasted, and the heavy lids of the dark eyes
scarcely lifted themselves, but the lips moved into a smile, and the
hand closed on that of the girl, who stood by her as one frozen into
numbness.  There was the same recognition when her aunt was brought
to her side, the poor old lady commanding herself with difficulty, as
the loving glance quivered over the face.

Time passed on, and she still held Nuttie's hand.  Once, when a
little revived by some stimulant at her lips, she made an effort and
said, 'Stay with him!  Take care of him!  _Love_ him!  And your
little brother, my Nuttie!  Promise!'

'I promise,' the girl answered, scarce knowing what she said.

And the eyes closed with an air of peace and rest.

Again when Miss Headworth was doing something to ease her position
she said, 'Thank you,' and then more vigorously, 'Thank you, dear
aunt, for all you have been to us.'

There was little more.  She asked Nuttie for 'her hymn,' the evening
hymn with which mother and daughter used nightly to go to sleep, and
which, in her strange dreamy way, the girl managed to say.

Then a little murmur and sign passed between the elder ladies, and
Mrs. William Egremont fetched her husband.  As he opened his book to
find the commendatory prayer, thinking her past all outward
consciousness, and grieved by the look of suffering, her eyes again
unclosed and her lips said, 'Failed.'

'Don't think of that!  God can make failures success.'

There was a half smile, a look of peace.  '_He_ makes up,' she said;
and those were the last audible words before it was over, and the
tender spirit was released from its strife, some time later, they
only knew when by the failure of the clasp on her husband's hand.

Old Miss Headworth did not understand the meaning of that sad word
till the next forenoon.  Then,--as she sat in the darkened tent-room,
crying over her letters,--while the stunned and bewildered Nuttie
was, under her Aunt Jane's direction, attending to the needful
arrangements, Canon Egremont wandered in upon her in the overflow of
confidence of a man with a full heart, wanting to talk it all out,
communicating the more, because she was a discreet woman, and asked
no questions.  He had tried to see his brother, but Gregorio had not
admitted him.  He was aware now of the whole state of things.  Dr.
Hammond had told him, when first beginning to be alarmed for his
patient, that the principal cause for anxiety was the exhaustion
caused by the long strain on her spirits and strength consequent on
her efforts to wean her husband from his fatal propensity.  There had
been other 'complications,' as the doctor called them, and more
immediate causes of danger, but both he and his colleague, summoned
from London, believed that she would have surmounted them if she had
had more strength to rally.  But her nurses dated the decided turn
for the worse from the day when she had gazed up into Mr. Egremont's
face, and detected the look in his eyes that she had learnt too well
to understand.

She would fain have lived, and, according to her obedient nature, had
submitted to all the silence and stillness enforced on her; but she
had told Dr. Hammond that she must see her brother-in-law before she
was too far gone.  And the doctor, knowing all, took care it should
be brought about.

And then she had spoken of her failure in the effort of these years.
'If I had begun better,' she said, 'it might not have been so with
him.'

'My dear, indeed you have nothing to blame yourself for.  You were
grievously sinned against by us all.  Alwyn was no saint when he drew
you into it--and you, you have been his good angel, doing all and
more too,' said the Canon, almost breaking down.

'I tried--but if I had been a better woman--And to leave him to that
man!'

'Child, child, victories sometimes come this way!' he cried, scarce
knowing how it was put into his mouth, but glad to see the light in
her eye.

'Thanks,' she replied.  'No, I ought not to have said that.  I leave
him to God, and my poor Nuttie.  I want you to tell her, if I can't,
what she must try to do.  If I had but brought them together more!
But I tried for the best.'

Then she begged for her last communion, saying, 'I do pray for that
poor Gregorio.  Isn't that forgiving him?'  And the attempt to
exchange forgiveness with the Canon for their mutual behaviour at the
time of her marriage overcame them both so much that they had to
leave it not half uttered.  Indeed, in speaking of the scene, William
Egremont was utterly overwhelmed.

'And that's the woman that I treated as a mere outcast!' he cried,
walking about the little room.  'Oh God, forgive me!  I shall never
forgive myself.'

Poor Miss Headworth!  In past days she had longed for any amount of
retribution on Alice's hard-hearted employers, but it was a very
different thing to witness such grief and self reproach.  He had in
truth much more developed ideas of duty, both as man and priest, than
when he had passively left a disagreeable subject to his mother-in-
law, as lying within a woman's province; and his good heart was
suffering acutely for the injustice and injury in which he had shared
towards one now invested with an almost saintly halo.

In the gush of feeling he had certainly revealed more to Miss
Headworth, than his wife, or even he himself, in his cooler moments,
would have thought prudent, and he ended by binding her to secrecy;
and saying that he should only tell his niece what was necessary for
her to know.

Nuttie was going about, dry-eyed and numbed, glad of any passing
occupation that would prevent the aching sense of desolation at her
heart from gaining force to overwhelm her; courting employment, and
shunning pity and condolence, but she could not escape when her uncle
took her hand, made her sit down by him, with 'I want to speak to
you, my dear;' and told her briefly and tenderly what her mother's
effort had been, and of the message and task she had bequeathed.
The poor girl's heart fainted within her.

'Oh! but, Uncle William, how can I?  How can I ever?  Mother could do
things I never could!  He _did_ care for her!  He does not care for
me!'

'You must teach him to do so, Nuttie.'

'Oh!' she said, with a hopeless sound.

The Canon did think it very hopeless in his heart, but he persevered,
as in duty bound.  'I told your dear mother that perhaps you would
succeed where she thought she had failed, though indeed she had done
much.  It made her happy.  So, my dear child, you are bound to do
your best.'

'Yes;' then, after a pause--'But mother could coax him and manage
him.  Mother was with him day and night; she could always get at him.
What can I do?'

'I think you will find that he depends upon you more,' said the
Canon, 'and it may be made easier to you, if you only set your will
to it.'

'If I ought, I'll try,' said poor Nuttie, more humbly perhaps than
she had ever spoken before, but in utter dejection, and her uncle
answered her like a child.

'There, that's a good girl.  Nobody can do more.'

For the Canon had one hope.  He had not thought it becoming to speak
to her of the counter influence, but he could not help thinking it
possible that if he and his son, backed by doctor and lawyer, made a
long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether, they might induce
his brother to part with Gregorio, and this would render Ursula's
task far less impossible.

He was confirmed in this hope by finding that Mark's arrival was not
unwelcome to Mr. Egremont, who seemed to have forgotten the
unpleasantness with which he had regarded the engagement, and only
remembered that his nephew had been Alice's champion, resuming old
customs of dependence, making him act as amanuensis, and arraigning
the destiny that had restored so lovely and charming a creature only
to snatch her away, leaving nothing but a headstrong girl and a
helpless baby.

That poor little fellow was all that could be desired at his age, but
Nuttie felt her beautiful mother almost insulted when the elder
ladies talked of the wonderful resemblance that the Canoness declared
to have been quite startling in the earlier hours of his life.  For
the convenience of one of the sponsors, he was to be christened in
the afternoon following the funeral, the others being--by his
mother's special entreaty--his sister and Mark.  Egremont customs
were against the ladies going to the funeral, so that Nuttie was kept
at home, much against her will; but after the luncheon she escaped,
leaving word with her aunts that she was going to walk down to church
alone, and they were sorry enough for her to let her have her own
way, especially as her father, having been to the funeral, had shut
himself up and left all the rest to them.

The Egremont family had a sort of enclosure or pen with iron rails
round it close to the church wall, where they rested under flat
slabs.  The gate in this was open now, and the new-made grave was one
mass of white flowers,--wreaths and crosses, snowdrops, hyacinths,
camellias, and the like,--and at the feet was a flowerpot with
growing plants of the white hyacinth called in France 'lys de la
Vierge.'  These, before they became frequent in England, had been
grown in Mr. Dutton's greenhouse, and having been favourites with
Mrs. Egremont, it had come to be his custom every spring to bring her
the earliest plants that bloomed.  Nuttie knew them well, the careful
tying up, the neat arrangement of moss over the earth, the peculiar
trimness of the whole; and as she looked, the remembrance of the
happy times of old, the sick longing for all that was gone, did what
nothing had hitherto effected--brought an overwhelming gush of tears.

There was no checking them now that they had come.  She fled into
church on the first sounds of arrival and hid herself in the friendly
shelter of the great family pew; but she had to come out and take her
place, though she could hardly utter a word, and it was all that she
could do to keep from sobbing aloud; she could not hand the babe, and
the Canon had to take on trust the name 'Alwyn Headworth,' for he
could not hear the words that were on her trembling lips.

It was soon over; and while the baby and his attendants, with Miss
Headworth, were being packed into the carriage, and her uncle and
aunt bowing off the grand god-father, she clutched her cousin's arm,
and said, 'Mark; where's Mr. Dutton?'

'I--I didn't know he was coming, but now you ask, I believe I saw him
this morning.'

'I know he is here.'

'Do you want to see him?' said Mark kindly.

'Oh, if I might!'

Then, with a sudden impulse, she looked back into the church, and
recognised a black figure and slightly bald head bowed down in one of
the seats.  She pointed him out.  'No doubt he is waiting for us all
to be gone,' said Mark in a low voice.  'You go into the Rectory,
Nuttie; there's a fire in the study, and I'll bring him to you there.
I'll get him to stay the night if I can.'

'Oh, thank you!' and it was a really fervent answer.

Mark waited, and when Mr. Dutton rose, was quite shocked at his
paleness and the worn look on his face, as of one who had struggled
hard for resignation and calm.  He started, almost as if a blow had
been struck him, as Mark uttered his name in the porch, no doubt
having never meant to be perceived nor to have to speak to any one;
but in one moment his features had recovered their usual expression
of courteous readiness.  He bowed his head when Mark told him that
Ursula wanted to shake hands with him, and came towards the Rectory,
but he entirely declined the invitation to sleep there, declaring
that he must return to London that night.

Mark opened the study door, and then went away to secure that the man
whom he had learnt to esteem very highly should at least have some
refreshment before he left the house.

Those few steps had given Mr. Dutton time to turn from a mourner to a
consoler, and when Nuttie came towards him with her hand
outstretched, and 'Oh, Mr. Dutton, Mr. Dutton!' he took it in both
his, and with a calm broken voice said, 'God has been very good to us
in letting us know one like her.'

'But oh! what can we do without her?'

'Ah, Nuttie! that always comes before us.  But I saw your work and
your comfort just now.'

'Poor little boy!  I shall get to care about him, I know, but as yet
I can only feel how much rather I would have _her_.'

'No doubt, but it is _her_ work that is left you.'

'Her work?  Yes!  But oh, Mr. Dutton, you don't know how dreadful it
is!'

He did not know what she meant.  Whether it was simply the burthen on
any suddenly motherless girl, or any special evil on her father's
part, but he was soon enlightened, for there was something in this
old friend that drew out her confidence beyond all others, even when
he repressed her, and she could not help telling him in a few
murmured furtive words such as she knew she ought not to utter, and
he felt it almost treason to hear.  'Opiates! she was always trying
to keep my father from them!  It was too much for her!  My uncle says
I must try to do it, and I can't.'

'Poor child!' said Mr. Dutton kindly, though cut to the heart at the
revelation of sweet Alice's trial; 'at least you can strive, and
there is always a blessing on resolution.'

'Oh, if you knew! and he doesn't like me.  I don't think I've ever
been nice to him, and that vexed her!  I haven't got her ways.'

'No,' said Mr. Dutton, 'but you will learn others.  Look here,
Nuttie.  You used to be always craving for grand and noble tasks, the
more difficult the better.  I think you have got one now, more severe
than ever could have been thought of--and very noble.  What are those
lines about the task "bequeathed from bleeding sire to son"?  Isn't
it like that?  You are bound to go on with her work, and the more
helpless you feel, and the more you throw yourself on God, the more
God will help you.  He takes the will for the deed, if only you have
will enough; and, Nuttie, you can pray that you may be able to love
and honour him.'

Teacups were brought in, followed by Mark, and interrupted them; and,
after a short interval, they parted at the park gate, and Ursula
walked home with Mark, waked from her dull numb trance, with a
crushed feeling as if she had been bruised all over, and yet with a
purpose within her.





CHAPTER XXIV.
FARMS OR UMBRELLAS.




'He tokin into his handis
 His londis and his lode.'--CHAUCER.


'Mark!  Mark!'  A little figure stood on the gravel road leading
through Lescombe Park, and lifted up an eager face, as Mark jumped
down from his horse.  'I made sure you would come over.'

'Yes, but I could not get away earlier.  And I have so much to say to
you and your mother, Annaple; there's a great proposition to be
considered.'

'Oh dear! and here is John bearing down upon us.  Never mind.  We'll
get into the mither's room and be cosy!'

'Well, Mark,' said Sir John's hearty voice, 'I thought you would be
here.  Come to luncheon?  That's right!  And how is poor Egremont?
I thought he looked awful at the funeral.'

'He is fairly well, thank you; but it was a terrible shock.'

'I should think so.  To find such a pretty sweet creature just to
lose her again.  Child likely to live, eh?'

'Oh yes, he is a fine fellow, and has never had anything amiss with
him.'

'Poor little chap!  Doesn't know what he has lost!  Well, Nannie,' as
they neared the house, 'do you want a tete-a-tete or to take him in
to your mother?  Here, I'll take the horse.'

'Come to her at once,' said Annaple; 'she wants to hear all, and
besides she is expecting me.'

Mark was welcomed by Lady Ronnisglen with inquiries for all
concerned, and especially for that 'poor girl.  I do pity a young
thing who has to take a woman's place too soon,' she said.  'It takes
too much out of her!'

'I should think Ursula had plenty of spirit,' said Annaple.

'I don't know whether spirit is what is wanted,' said Mark.  'Her
mother prevailed more without it than I am afraid she is likely to do
with it.'

'Complements answer better than parallels sometimes, but not always,'
said Lady Ronnisglen.

'Which are we?' asked Annaple demurely.

'Not parallels certainly, for then we should never meet,' responded
Mark.  'But here is the proposal.  My father and all the rest of us
have been doing our best to get my uncle to smooth Ursula's way by
getting rid of that valet of his.'

'The man with the Mephistopheles face?'

'Exactly.  He is a consummate scoundrel, as we all know, and so does
my uncle himself, but he has been about him these twelve or fourteen
years, and has got a sort of hold on him--that--that-- It is no use
to talk of it, but it did not make that dear aunt of mine have an
easier life.  In fact I should not be a bit surprised if he had been
a hindrance in the hunting her up.  Well, the fellow thought proper
to upset some arrangements my mother had made, and then was more
insolent than I should have thought even he could have been towards
her.  I suppose he had got into the habit with poor Aunt Alice.  That
made a fulcrum, and my father went at my uncle with a will.  I never
saw my father so roused in my life.  I don't mean by the behaviour to
his wife, but at what he knew of the fellow, and all the harm he had
done and is doing.  And actually my uncle gave in at last, and
consented to tell Gregorio to look out for another situation, if he
has not feathered his nest too well to need one, as I believe he
has.'

'Oh, that will make it much easier for Ursula!' cried Annaple.

'If he goes,' put in her mother.

'I think he will.  I really had no notion how much these two years
have improved my uncle!  To be sure, it would be hard to live with
such a woman as that without being the better for it!  But he really
seems to have acquired a certain notion of duty!'

They did not smile at the simple way in which Mark spoke of this vast
advance, and Lady Ronnisglen said, 'I hope so, for the sake of his
daughter and that poor little boy.'

'I think that has something to do with it,' said Mark.  'He feels a
responsibility, and still more, I think he was struck by having a
creature with him to whom evil was like physical pain.'

'It will work,' said Lady Ronnisglen.

'Then,' went on Mark, 'he took us all by surprise by making me this
proposal--to take the management of the estate, and become a kind of
private secretary to him.  You know he gets rheumatism on the optic
nerve, and is almost blind at times.  He would give me 300 a year,
and do up the house at the home farm, rent free.  What do you say to
that, Annaple?'

There was a silence, then Annaple said: 'Give up the umbrellas!  Oh!
What do you think, Mark?'

'My father wishes it,' said Mark.  'He would, as he had promised to
do, make over to me my share of my own mother's fortune, and that
would, I have been reckoning, bring us to just what we had thought of
starting upon this spring at Micklethwayte.'

'The same now,' said Lady Ronnisglen, after some reckoning, 'but what
does it lead to?'

'Well--nothing, I am afraid,' said Mark; 'as you know, this is all I
have to reckon upon.  The younger children will have hardly anything
from their mother, so that my father's means must chiefly go to
them.'

'And this agency is entirely dependent on your satisfying Mr.
Egremont?'

'True, but that's a thing only too easily done.  However, as you say,
this agency has no future, and if that came to an end, I should only
have to look out for another or take to farming.'

'And ask poor John if that is a good speculation nowadays!' said
Annaple.

'Fortunes are and have been made on the umbrellas,' said Mark.
'Greenleaf has a place almost equal to Monks Horton, and Dutton,
though he makes no show, has realised a considerable amount.'

'Oh yes, let us stick to the umbrellas!' cried Annaple; 'you've made
the plunge, so it does not signify now, and we should be so much more
independent out of the way of everybody.'

'You would lose in society,' said Mark, 'excepting, of course, as to
the Monks Horton people; but they are often away.'

'Begging your pardon, Mark, is there much to lose in this same
neighbourhood?' laughed Annaple, 'now May will go.'

'It is not so much a question of liking,' added her mother, 'as of
what is for the best, and where you may wish to be--say ten years
hence.'

Looked at in this way, there could be no question but that the
umbrella company promised to make Mark a richer man in ten years'
time than did the agency at Bridgefield Egremont.  He had a salary
from the office already, and if he purchased shares in the
partnership with the portion his father would resign to him, his
income would already equal what he would have at Bridgefield, and
there was every prospect of its increase, both as he became more
valuable, and as the business continued to prosper.  If the descent
in life had been a grievance to the ladies, the agency would have
been an infinite boon, but having swallowed so much, as Annaple said,
they might as well do it in earnest, and to some purpose.  Perhaps,
too, it might be detected that under the circumstances Annaple would
prefer the living in a small way out of reach of her sister's visible
compassion.

So the matter was settled, but there was an undercurrent in Mark's
mind on which he had not entered, namely, that his presence at home
might make all the difference in that reformation in his uncle's
habits which Alice had inaugurated, and left in the hands of others.
With him at hand, there was much more chance of Gregorio's being
dispensed with, Ursula's authority maintained, little Alwyn well
brought up, and the estate, tenants, and household properly cared
for, and then he smiled at his notion of supposing himself of so much
importance.  Had he only had himself to consider, Mark would have
thought his duty plain; but when he found Miss Ruthven and her mother
so entirely averse, he did not deem it right to sacrifice them to the
doubtful good of his uncle, nor indeed to put the question before
them as so much a matter of conscience that they should feel bound to
consider it in that light.  He did indeed say, 'Well, that settles
it,' in a tone that led Annaple to exclaim: 'I do believe you want to
drop the umbrellas!'

'No,' he answered, 'it is not that, but my father wished it, and
thought it would be good for my uncle.'

'No doubt,' said Annaple, 'but he has got a daughter, also a son, and
a brother, and agents are plentiful, so I can't see why all the
family should dance attendance on him.'

Lady Ronnisglen, much misdoubting Mr. Egremont's style of society,
and dreading that Mark might be dragged into it, added her word,
feeling on her side that it was desirable and just to hinder the
family from sacrificing Mark's occupation and worldly interest to a
capricious old roue, who might very possibly throw him over when it
would be almost impossible to find anything else to do.  Moreover,
both she and Annaple believed that the real wish was to rescue the
name of Egremont from association with umbrellas, and they held
themselves bound to combat what they despised and thought a piece of
worldly folly.

So Mark rode home, more glad that the decision was actually made than
at the course it had taken.  His father was disappointed, but could
not but allow that it was the more prudent arrangement; and Mr.
Egremont showed all the annoyance of a man whose good offer has been
rejected.

''Tis that little giggling Scotch girl!' he said.  'Well, we are quit
of her, anyway.  'Tis a pity that Mark entangled himself with her,
and a mother-in-law into the bargain!  I was a fool to expect to get
any good out of him!'

This was said to his daughter, with whom he was left alone; for Miss
Headworth could not bear to accept his hospitality a moment longer
than needful, and besides had been so much shaken in nerves as to
suspect that an illness was coming on, and hurried home to be nursed
by Mary Nugent.  Canon Egremont was obliged to go back to Redcastle
to finish his residence, and his wife, who had been absent nearly a
month from her family, thought it really wisest to let the father and
daughter be thrown upon one another at once, so that Ursula might
have the benefit of her father's softened mood.

There could be no doubt that he was softened, and that he had derived
some improvement from the year and a half that his wife had been with
him.  It might not have lifted him up a step, but it had arrested him
in his downward course.  Selfish and indolent he was as ever, but
there had been a restraint on his amusements, and a withdrawal from
his worst associates, such as the state of his health might continue,
above all if Gregorio could be dispensed with.  The man himself had
become aware of the combination against him, and, though reckoning on
his master's inertness and dependence upon him, knew that a fresh
offence might complete his overthrow, and therefore took care to be
on his good behaviour.

Thus Nuttie's task might be somewhat smoothed; but the poor girl felt
unspeakably desolate as she ate her breakfast all alone with a dull
post-bag, and still more so when, having seen the housekeeper, who,
happily for her, was a good and capable woman, and very sorry for
her, she had to bethink herself what to do in that dreary sitting-
room during the hour when she had always been most sure of her
sister-mother's dear company.  How often she had grumbled at being
called on to practise duets for her father's evening lullaby!  She
supposed she ought to get something up, and she proceeded to turn
over and arrange the music with a sort of sick loathing for whatever
was connected with those days of impatient murmurs, which she would
so gladly have recalled.  Everything had fallen into disorder, as
Blanche and May had left it the last time they had played there; and
the overlooking it, and putting aside the pieces which she could
never use alone, occupied her till Gregorio, very meek and polite,
came with a message that Mr. Egremont would be glad if she would come
to his room.  In some dread, some distaste, and yet some pity and
some honest resolution, she made her way thither.

There he sat, in dressing-gown, smoking-cap, and blue spectacles,
with the glittering February sunshine carefully excluded.  He looked
worse and more haggard than when she had seen him at dinner in the
evening, made up for company, and her compassion increased,
especially as he not only held out his hand, but seemed to expect her
to kiss him, a thing she had never done since their first
recognition.  It was not pleasant in itself, but it betokened full
forgiveness, and indeed he had never spoken to her in his sneering,
exasperating voice since her mournful return home.

'Have you seen the boy?' he asked.

'Yes; they are walking him up and down under the south wall,' said
Nuttie, thankful that she had peeped under the many wraps as he was
carried across the hall.

'Here!  I want you to read this letter to me.  A man ought to be
indicted for writing such a hand!'

It was really distinct penmanship, though minute; but, as Nuttie
found, her father did not like to avow how little available were his
eyes.  He could write better than he could read, but he kept her over
his correspondence for the rest of the morning, answering some of the
letters of condolence for him in her own name, writing those of
business, and folding and addressing what he himself contrived to
write.  Her native quickness stood her in good stead, and, being
rather nervous, she took great pains, and seldom stumbled; indeed,
she only once incurred an exclamation of impatience at her stupidity
or slowness.

She guessed rightly that this forbearance was owing to tender
persuasions of her mother, and did not guess that a certain fear of
herself was mingled with other motives.  Her father had grown used to
woman's ministrations; he needed them for his precious little heir,
and he knew his daughter moreover for a severe judge, and did not
want to alienate her and lose her services; so they got on fairly
well together, and she shared his luncheon, during which a message
came up about the carriage; and as there had been an application for
some nursery needment, and moreover black-edged envelopes had run
short, there was just purpose enough for a drive to the little town.

Then Nuttie read her father to sleep with the newspaper; rushed round
the garden in the twilight to stretch her young limbs; tried to read
a little, dressed, dined with her father; finished what he had missed
in the paper, then offered him music, and was told 'if she pleased,'
and as she played she mused whether this was to be her life.  It
looked very dull and desolate, and what was the good of it all?  But
there were her mother's words, 'Love him!'  How fulfil them?  She
could pity him now, but oh! how could she love one from whom her
whole nature recoiled, when she thought of her mother's ruined life?
Mr. Dutton too had held her new duties up to her as capable of being
ennobled.  Noble!  To read aloud a sporting paper she did not want to
understand, to be ready to play at cards or billiards, to take that
dawdling drive day by day, to devote herself to the selfish exactions
of burnt-out dissipation.  Was this noble?  Her mother had done all
this, and never even felt it a cross, because of her great love.  It
must be Nuttie's cross if it was her duty; but could the love and
honour possibly come though she tried to pray in faith?





CHAPTER XXV.
THE GIGGLING SCOTCH GIRL.




'For every Lamp that trembled here,
 And faded in the night,
 Behold a Star serene and clear
 Smiles on me from the height.'--B. M.


Nuttie was not mistaken in supposing that this first day would be a
fair sample of her life, though, of course, after the first weeks of
mourning there were variations; and the return of the Rectory party
made a good deal of brightening, and relieved her from the necessity
of finding companionship and conversation for her father on more than
half her afternoons and evenings.

He required her, however, almost every forenoon, and depended on her
increasingly, so that all her arrangements had to be made with
reference to him.  It was bondage, but not as galling in the fact as
she would have expected if it had been predicted to her a few months
previously.  In the first place, Mr. Egremont never demanded of her
what was actually against her conscience, except occasionally giving
up a Sunday evensong to read the paper to him, and that only when he
was more unwell than usual.  He was, after all, an English gentleman,
and did not ask his young daughter to read to him the books which her
mother had loathed.  Moreover, Gregorio was on his good behaviour,
perfectly aware that there was a family combination against him, and
having even received a sort of warning from his master, but by no
means intending to take it, and therefore abstaining from any kind of
offence that could furnish a fresh handle against him; and thus for
the present, Dr. Hammond's regimen was well observed, and Mr.
Egremont was his better self in consequence, for, under his wife's
guardianship, the perilous habit had sufficiently lost strength to
prevent temper and spirits from manifestly suffering from abstinence.

The first time Nuttie found herself obliged to make any very real
sacrifice to her father's will was on the occasion of Mark's marriage
at Easter.  Things had arranged themselves very conveniently for him
at Micklethwayte, though it seemed to Nuttie that she only heard of
affairs there in a sort of distant dream, while such events were
taking place as once would have been to her the greatest possible
revolutions.

Aunt Ursel reached home safely, but her expectations of illness were
realised.  She took to her bed on arriving, and though she rose from
it, there was reason to think she had had a slight stroke, for her
activity of mind and body were greatly decayed, and she was wholly
dependent on Mary Nugent for care and comfort.  Mary, remembering
the consequences of the former alarm, made the best of the old lady's
condition; and Nuttie, ashamed of having once cried 'wolf,' did not
realise the true state of the case, nor indeed could she or would she
have been spared to go to Micklethwayte.

The next news told that Gerard Godfrey, at the end of the year
required by Mr. Dutton, had resigned his situation, and at the close
of his quarter's notice was going to prepare for Holy Orders under
the training of a clergyman who would employ him in his parish, and
assist him in reading up to the requirements for admission to a
theological college.  Poor dear old Gerard!  It gave Nuttie a sort of
pang of self-reproach to own how good and devoted he was, and yet so
narrow and stupid that she could never have been happy with him.  Was
he too good, or was he too dull for her?  Had she forsaken him for
the world's sake, or was it a sound instinct that had extinguished
her fancy for him?  No one could tell, least of all the parties
concerned.  He might be far above her in spiritual matters, but he
was below her in intellectual ones, and though they would always feel
for one another that peculiar tenderness left by the possibilities of
a first love, no doubt the quarrel over the blue ribbon had been no
real misfortune to either.

The next tidings were still more surprising.  Mr. Dutton was leaving
the firm.  Though his father had died insolvent, and he had had to
struggle for himself in early life, he was connected with wealthy
people, and change and death among these had brought him a fair share
of riches.  An uncle who had emigrated to Australia at the time of
the great break up had died without other heirs, leaving him what was
the more welcome to him that Micklethwayte could never be to him what
it had been in its golden age.  He had realised enough to enable him
to be bountiful, and his parting gift to St Ambrose's would complete
the church; but he himself was winding up the partnership, and
withdrawing his means from Greenleaf and Co. in order to go out to
Australia to decide what to do with his new possessions.

Mark Egremont purchased a number of the shares, though, to gratify
the family, the shelter of the Greenleaf veiled his name under the
'Co.,' and another, already in the firm, possessed of a business-like
appellation, gave designation to the firm as Greenleaf, Goodenough,
and Co.

Mr. Dutton's well-kept house, with the little conservatory and the
magnolia, was judged sufficient for present needs, and the lease was
taken off his hands, so that all was in order for the marriage of
Mark and Annaple immediately after Easter.

Lady Delmar had resigned herself to the inevitable, and the wedding
was to take place at Lescombe.  Nuttie, whose chief relaxation was in
hearing all the pros and cons from May and Blanche, was asked to be
one of the bridesmaids by Annaple, who had come over to the Rectory
in a droll inscrutable state of mischief, declaring that she had
exasperated Janet to the verge of insanity by declaring that she
should have little umbrellas like those in the Persian inscriptions
on her cards, and that Mark was to present all the bridesmaids with
neat parasols.  If crinolines had not been gone out they could have
all been dressed appropriately.  Now they must wear them closely
furled.  All this banter was hardly liked by May and Blanche, whose
little sisters were laughed at again for needing the assurance that
they were really to wear white and rowan leaves and berries--the
Ronnisglen badge.  Nuttie, who had drawn much nearer to May,
refrained from relating this part of the story at home, but was much
disappointed when, on telling her father of the request, she was
answered at once:

'Hein!  The 24th?  You'll be in London, and a very good thing too.'

'Are we to go so soon?'

'Yes.  Didn't I tell you to take that house in Berkshire Road from
the 20th?'

'I did not think we were to start so soon.  Is there any particular
reason?'

'Yes.  That Scotch girl ought to have known better than to ask you in
your deep mourning.  I thought women made a great point of such
things.'

'Aunt Jane did not seem to think it wrong,' said Nuttie, for she
really wished much for consent.  Not only had she grown fond both of
Mark and Annaple, but she had never been a bridesmaid, and she knew
that not only the Kirkaldys but Mr. Dutton had been invited; she had
even ventured on offering to lodge some of the overflowing guests of
the Rectory.

'Their heads are all turned by that poverty-stricken Scotch peerage,'
returned Mr. Egremont; 'or the Canoness should have more sense of
respect.'

Nuttie's wishes were so strong that she made one more attempt, 'I
need not be a bridesmaid.  They would not mind if I wore my black.'

'I should, then!' said her father curtly.  'If they don't understand
the proprieties of life, I do.  I won't have you have anything to do
with it.  If you are so set upon gaiety, you'll have enough of
weddings at fitter times!'

It was the old sneering tone.  Nuttie felt partly confounded, partly
indignant, and terribly disappointed.  She did care for the sight of
the wedding--her youthful spirits had rallied enough for that, but
far more now she grieved at missing the sight of Mr. Dutton, when he
was going away, she knew not where, and might perhaps come on purpose
to see her; and it also made her sore and grieved at being accused of
disregard to her mother.  She was silenced, however, and presently
her father observed, in the same unpleasant tone, 'Well, if you've
digested your disappointment, perhaps you'll condescend to write to
the agent, that I expect the house to be ready on the 21st.'

Nuttie got through her morning's work she hardly knew how, though her
father was dry and fault-finding all the time.  Her eyes were so full
of tears when she was released that she hardly saw where she was
going, and nearly ran against her aunt, who had just walked into the
hall.  Mrs. Egremont was too prudent a woman to let her burst out
there with her grievance, but made her come into the tent-room before
she exclaimed, 'He is going to take me away to London; he won't let
me go to the wedding.'

'I am sorry for your disappointment,' said her aunt quietly, 'but I
am old-fashioned enough to be glad that such strong respect and
feeling should be shown for your dear mother.  I wish Annaple had
spoken to me before asking you, and I would have felt the way.'

'I'm sure it is not want of feeling,' said Nuttie, as her tears broke
forth.

'I did not say it was,' returned her aunt, 'but different generations
have different notions of the mode of showing it; and the present
certainly errs on the side of neglect of such tokens of mourning.  If
I did not think that Annaple and her mother are really uncomfortable
at Lescombe, I should have told Mark that it was better taste to wait
till the summer.'

'If I might only have stayed at home--even if I did not go to the
wedding,' sighed Nuttie, who had only half listened to the Canoness's
wisdom.

'Since you do not go, it is much better that you should be out of the
way,' said Mrs. Egremont.  'Is your father ready to see me?'

So Nuttie had to submit, though she pouted to herself, feeling
grievously misjudged, first as if she had been wanting in regard to
the memory of her mother, who had been so fond of Mark, and so
rejoiced in his happiness; and then that her vexation was treated as
mere love of gaiety, whereas it really was disappointment at not
seeing Mr. Dutton, that good, grave, precise old friend, who could
not be named in the same breath with vanity.  Moreover, she could not
help suspecting that respect to her mother was after all only a cloak
to resentment against Mark and his marriage.

However, she bethought herself that her mother had often been
disappointed and had borne it cheerfully, and after having done what
Aunt Ursel would have called 'grizzling' in her room for an hour, she
wrote her note to Miss Ruthven and endeavoured to be as usual,
feeling keenly that there was no mother now to perceive and
gratefully commend one of her only too rare efforts for good humour.
On other grounds she was very sorry to leave Bridgefield.  May had,
in her trouble, thawed to her, and they were becoming really
affectionate and intimate companions, by force of propinquity and
relationship, as well as of the views that May had imbibed from Hugh
Condamine.  Moreover Nuttie felt her aunt's watch over the baby a
great assistance to her own ignorance.

However the Canoness had resigned to the poor little heir the perfect
and trustworthy nurse, whom Basil had outgrown, and who consented to
the transfer on condition of having her nursery establishment
entirely apart from the rest of the household.  Her reasons were
known though unspoken, namely, that the rejection of one or two
valets highly recommended had made it plain that there had been no
dislodgment of Gregorio.  The strong silent objection to him of all
good female servants was one of the points that told much against
him.  Martin and the housekeeper just endured him, and stayed on for
the present chiefly because their dear lady had actually begged them
not to desert her daughter if they could help it, at least not at
first.

Nuttie bound over her cousins to give her a full account of the
wedding, and both of them wrote to her.  Blanche's letter recorded
sundry scattered particulars,--as to how well the rowan-trimmed tulle
dresses looked--how every one was packed into the carriages for the
long drive--how there had been a triumphal arch erected over the
Bluepost Bridge itself, and Annaple nearly choked with laughing at
the appropriateness--how, to her delight, a shower began, and the
procession out of the church actually cried out for umbrellas--how
papa, when performing the ceremony, could not recollect that the
bride's proper name was Annabella, and would dictate it as
Anna-Maria, Sir John correcting him each time sotto voce--how Basil
and little Hilda Delmar walked together and 'looked like a couple of
ducks,' which, it was to be hoped, was to be taken metaphorically--
how dreadfully hard the ice on the wedding-cake was, so that when
Annaple tried to cut it the knife slipped and a little white dove
flew away and hit May, which everyone said was a grand omen that she
would be the next bride, while of course Annaple was perfectly
helpless with mirth.  Every one said it was the merriest wedding ever
seen, for the bride's only tears were those of laughter.  What Nuttie
really cared for most came just at the end, and not much of that.
'Your Mr. Dutton is just gone.  He got on famously with Hugh
Condamine, and I forgot to tell you that he has given Mark such a
jolly present, a lovely silver coffee-pot, just the one thing they
wanted, and Lady Delmar said he didn't look near so like a tradesman
as she expected.  I see May is writing too, but I don't know what you
will get out of her, as Hugh Condamine came for the day.'

Nuttie, however, had more hopes from May.  Her letter certainly was
fuller of interest, if shorter.


'My Dear Nuttie--Blanche has no doubt told you all the externals.  I
suppose there never was a brighter wedding, for as Annaple keeps her
mother with her, there was no real rending asunder of ties.  Indeed I
almost wish her excitement did not always show itself in laughing,
for it prevents people from understanding how much there is in her.


(Plainly Hugh Condamine had been rather scandalised by the 'giggling
Scotch girl.')


'Dear old Lady Ronnisglen was delightful.  If there were any tears,
they were hers, and Lady Delmar was very cordial and affectionate.
Of course Hugh and Mr. Dutton missed much that one would have liked
in a wedding.  I drove back with them afterwards, and it was very
interesting to listen to their conversation about church matters.
Hugh is very much struck with your friend; he had heard a good deal
about Micklethwayte before, and says that such a lay worker is
perfectly invaluable.  It is a great pity that he is not going on in
the firm, it would make it so much nicer for Mark, but he says he has
duties towards his new property.  I think he was sorry not to find
you at home, but he plainly never thought it possible you should be
at the wedding.  I don't know whether I ought to tell you this, but I
think you ought to know it.  There is a lovely new wreath of Eucharis
lilies and maiden-hair at dear Aunt Alice's grave, close against the
rails at the feet, and Hugh told me that he looked out of his window
very early yesterday morning and saw Mr. Dutton standing there,
leaning on the rail, with his bare head bowed between his hands.  You
can't think how it impressed Hugh.  He said he felt reverent towards
him all through that day, and he was quite angry with Rosalind and
Adela for jesting because, when the shower began as we were coming
out of church, Mr. Dutton rushed up with an umbrella, being the only
person there who had one, I believe.  Hugh says you may be proud of
such a friend.  I wish you could have seen Hugh.--Your affectionate
cousin,
                                             'MARGARET EGREMONT.'





CHAPTER XXVI.
THREE YEARS LATER.




'There's something rotten in the State.'--Hamlet.


On an east-windy afternoon in March Mary Nugent emerged from the
School of Art, her well-worn portfolio under her arm, thinking how
many successive generations of boys and girls she had drilled through
'free-hand,' 'perspective,' and even 'life' with an unvarying average
of failure and very moderate success, and how little talent or
originality had come to the front, though all might be the better for
knowing how to use eyes and fingers.

On the whole her interest as well as her diligence did not flag; but
a sense of weariness and monotony would sometimes come after a
recurrence of well-known blunders of her pupils, and she missed the
sense of going home to refreshment and enjoyment which had once
invigorated her.  St. Ambrose's Road had had its golden age, but the
brightness had been dimmed ever since that festival at Monks Horton.
One after another of the happy old society had dropped away.  The
vicar had received promotion, and she only remained of the former
intimates, excepting old Miss Headworth, who was no longer a
companion, but whom affection forbade her to desert in feeble old
age.  Had her thoughts of the old times conjured up a figure
belonging to them?  There was the well-brushed hat, the natty silk
umbrella, the perfect fit of garments, the precise turn-out, nay, the
curly lion-shaven poodle, with all his fringes, leaping on her in
recognition, and there was that slightly French flourish of the hat,
before--with a bounding heart--she met the hand in an English grasp.

'Miss Nugent!'

'Mr. Dutton!'

'I thought I should meet you here!'

'When did you come?'

'Half an hour ago.  I came down with George Greenleaf, left my things
at the Royal Hotel, and came on to look for you.'

'You will come and spend the evening with us?'

'If you are so good as to ask me.  How is Miss Headworth?'

'Very feeble, very deaf; but she will be delighted to see you.  There
is no fear of her not remembering you, though she was quite lost when
Mrs. Egremont came in yesterday.'

'Mrs. Egremont!' he repeated with a little start.

'Mrs. Mark.  Ah! we have got used to the name--the Honourable Mrs.
Egremont, as the community insist on calling her.  What a sunny
creature she is!'

'And Miss Egremont, what do you hear of her?'

'She writes long letters, poor child.  I hope she is fairly happy.
Are you come home for good, or is this only a visit?'

'I have no intention of returning.  I have been winding up my good
cousin's affairs at Melbourne.'

Mary's heart bounded again with a sense of joy, comfort, and
protection; but she did not long keep Mr. Dutton to herself, for
every third person they met gladly greeted him, and they were long in
getting to St. Ambrose's Road, now dominated by a tall and beautiful
spire, according to the original design.  They turned and looked in
at the pillared aisles, stained glass, and handsome reredos.

'Very different from our struggling days,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Yes,' said Mary, with half a sigh.  'There's the new vicar,' as he
passed with a civil nod.  'He has three curates, and a house of
Sisters, and works the parish excellently.'

'You don't speak as if you were intimate.'

'No.  His womankind are rather grand--quite out of our beat; and in
parish work I am only an estimable excrescence.  It is very well that
I am not wanted, for Miss Headworth requires a good deal of
attention, and it is only the old Adam that regrets the days of
importance.  Ah, do you see?'

They were passing Mr. Dutton's old home.  On the tiny strip of lawn
in front was a slender black figure, with yellow hair, under a tiny
black hat, dragging about a wooden horse whereon was mounted a sturdy
boy of two, also yellow-locked and in deep mourning under his Holland
blouse.

'Billy-boy is riding to meet his daddy!' was merrily called out both
by mother and son before they perceived the stranger.

'Mr. Dutton,' said Mary.

Annaple bowed, but did not put out her hand, and such a flush was on
her face that Miss Nugent said, 'I am sure that is too much for you!'

'Oh no--' she began; but 'Allow me,' said Mr. Dutton, and before she
could refuse he was galloping round and round the little lawn, the
boy screaming with delight as Monsieur raced with them.

'So he is come!' she said in a low doubtful voice to Mary.

'Yes.  He has met Mr. Greenleaf in London.  I always think he has the
contrary to the evil eye.  Whatever he takes in hand rights itself.'

'I'll hope so.  Oh, thank you!  Billy-boy, say thank you!  What a
ride you have had!'

'Why are they in such deep mourning?' asked Mr. Dutton, after they
had parted.

'Oh, did you not know? for good old Lady Ronnisglen.  She had a bad
fall about two years ago, and never left her bed again; and this last
autumn she sank away.'

'They have had a great deal of trouble, then.  I saw the death of
Canon Egremont in the Times soon after I went out to Australia.'

'Yes; he had heart disease, and died quite suddenly.  The living is
given to Mr. Condamine, who married the eldest daughter, and the
widow is gone to live under the shadow of Redcastle Cathedral.'

Therewith Miss Nugent opened her own door, and Miss Headworth was
soon made aware of the visitor.  She was greatly changed, and had the
indescribable stony look that tells of paralysis; and though she knew
Mr. Dutton, and was delighted to see him, his presence made her
expect to see Alice and Nuttie come in, though she soon recollected
herself and shed a few helpless tears.  Then--in another mood--she
began to display with pride and pleasure the photographs of 'Alice's
dear little boy.'  She had a whole series of them, from the long-
clothed babe on his sister's knee to the bright little fellow holding
a drum--a very beautiful child, with a striking resemblance to his
mother, quite startling to Mr. Dutton, especially in the last, which
was coloured, and showed the likeness of eyes and expression.

'Nuttie always sends me one whenever he is taken,' said the old lady.
'Dear Nuttie!  It is very good for her.  She is quite a little mother
to him.'

'I was sure it would be so,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Yes,' said Mary, 'he is the great interest and delight of her life.
Her letters are full of his little sayings and doings.'

'Is she at home now?'

'No; at Brighton.  Her father seems to have taken a dislike to
Bridgefield since his brother's death, and only goes there for a
short time in the shooting season.  He has taken a lease of a house
in London, and spends most of the year there.'

'Ah!' as she showed him the address, 'that is near the old house
where I used to stay with my grand-aunt.  We thought it altogether in
the country then, but it is quite absorbed now, and I have dazzling
offers from building companies for the few acres of ground around it.
Have you seen her?'

'Oh no; I believe she is quite necessary to her father.  I only hear
of her through Lady Kirkaldy, who has been very kind to her, but, I
am sorry to say, is now gone with her Lord to the East.  She says she
thinks that responsibility has been very good for Nuttie; she is
gentler and less impetuous, and a good deal softened by her affection
for the child.'

'She was certain to develop.  I only dreaded what society her father
might surround her with.'

'Lady Kirkaldy says that all has turned out better than could have
been expected.  You see, as she says, Mr. Egremont has been used to
good women in his own family, and would not like to see her in a
slangy fast set.  All her own gaieties have been under Lady
Kirkaldy's wing, or that of Mrs. William Egremont's relations, and
only in a quiet moderate way.  Her father gets his own old set about
him, and they have not been very choice, but they are mostly elderly
men, and gentlemen, and know how to behave themselves to her.
Indeed, her cousin Blanche, who was here in the winter, gave us to
understand that Ursula knows how to take care of herself, and gets
laughed at as rather an old maidish model of propriety, if you can
believe it of your little Nuttie.'

'I could quite believe in her on the defensive, unprotected as she
is.'

'What did that young lady--Miss Blanche--tell us about that
gentleman, Mary?' asked Miss Headworth, hearing and uttering what
Miss Nugent hoped had passed unnoticed.

'Oh, I think that was all gossip!' returned Mary, 'and so I am sure
did the Mark Egremonts.  She said there was one of Mr. Egremont's
friends, Mr. Clarence Fane, I think she called him, rather younger
than the others, who, she was pleased to say, seemed smitten with
Nuttie, but I have heard nothing more about it, and Mrs. Mark scouted
the idea,' she added in haste, as she saw his expression vary in
spite of himself.

'Do you see much of your neighbours?'

'We are both too busy to see much of one another, but we have our
little talks over the wall.  What a buoyant creature she is.  It
seems as if playfulness was really a sustaining power in her, helping
her to get diversion out of much that others might stumble at.  You
know perhaps that when she arrived the work-people had got up a
beautiful parasol for her, white, with a deep fringe and spray of
rowan.  Little Susie Gunner presented her with it, and she was very
gracious and nice about it.  But then what must Mr. Goodenough do but
dub it the Annabella sunshade, and blazon it, considerably
vulgarised, in all the railway stations, and magazines.'

'I know!  I had the misfortune to see it in the station at Melbourne;
and my mind misgave me from that hour.'

'Her husband was prepared to be very angry, but she fairly laughed
him out of it, made all sorts of fun out of the affair, declared it
her only opening to fame, and turned it into a regular joke; so that
indeed the Greenleafs, who were vexed at the matter, and tried to
apologise, were quite perplexed in their turn, and not at all sure
that the whole concern was not being turned into ridicule.'

'I wonder it did not make him cut the connection,' said Mr. Dutton,
muttering 'I only wish it had.'

'Mrs. Greenleaf is very funny about her, 'added Mary, 'proud of the
Honourable Mrs. Egremont, as they insist on calling her, yet not
quite pleased that she should be the junior partner's wife; and
decidedly resenting her hardly going into society at all, though I
really don't see how she could; for first there was the Canon's
death, and then just after the boy was born came Lady Ronnisglen's
accident, and for the next year and a half there was constant
attendance on her.  They fitted up a room on the ground floor for
her, the one opening into your drawing-room, and there they used to
sit with her.  I used to hear them reading to her and singing to her,
and they were always as merry as possible, till last autumn, when
something brought on erysipelas, and she was gone almost before they
took alarm.  The good little daughter was beaten down then, really
ill for a week; but if you can understand me, the shock seemed to
tell on her chiefly bodily, and though she was half broken-hearted
when her husband in a great fright brought me up to see her, and say
whether her sister should be sent for, she still made fun of him, and
described the impossible advice they would bring on themselves.  I
had to take care of her while he went away to the funeral in
Scotland, and then I learnt indeed to like her and see how much there
is in her besides laughter.'

'Did the old lady leave them anything?'

'I believe she had nothing to leave.  Her jointure was not much, but
I am sure they miss that, for Mrs. Egremont has parted with her
nurse, and has only a little girl in her stead, driving out the
perambulator often herself, to the great scandal of the Greenleafs,
though she would have one believe it is all for want of occupation.'

'Do you think they have taken any alarm?'

'There's no judging from her joyous surface, but I have thought him
looking more careworn and anxious than I liked.  Mr. Dutton, don't
answer if I ought not to ask, but is it true that things are going
wrong?  I know you have been seeing Mr. Greenleaf, so perhaps you are
in his confidence and cannot speak.'

'Tell me, what is known or suspected?'

'Just this, that Mr. Goodenough has been the ruin of the concern.  He
has been quite different ever since his voyage to America.  You were
gone, old Mr. Greenleaf has been past attending to business ever
since he had that attack, and George Greenleaf has been playing the
country squire at Horton Bishop, and not looking after the office
work, and Mr. Egremont was inexperienced.  One could see, of course,
that the whole character of the business was changed--much more
advertising, much more cheap and flashy work--to be even with the
times, it was said, but the old superior hands were in despair at the
materials supplied to them, and the scamped work expected.  You
should have heard old Thorpe mourning for you, and moralising over
the wickedness of this world.  His wife told me she really thought he
would go melancholy mad if he did not leave the factory, and he has
done so.  They have saved enough to set up a nice little shop at
Monks Horton.'

'I must go and see them!  Good old Thorpe!  I ought never to have put
those poor young things into the firm when I ceased to have any
control over it.  I shall never forgive myself--'

'Nothing could seem safer then!  No one could have guessed that young
Mr. Greenleaf would be so careless without his father to keep him up
to the mark, nor that Mr. Goodenough should alter so much.  Is it
very bad?  Is there worse behind?  Speculation, I suppose--'

'Of course.  I do not see to the bottom of it yet; poor George seemed
to reckon on me for an advance, but I am afraid this is more than a
mere temporary depression, such as may be tided over, and that all
that can be looked to is trying to save honourable names by an utter
break up, which may rid them of that--that--no, I won't call him a
scoundrel.  I thought highly of him once, and no doubt he never
realised what he was doing.'

Before the evening was far advanced Mark Egremont knocked at the
door, and courteously asked whether Mr. Dutton could be spared to him
for a little while.  Mary Nugent replied that she was just going to
help Miss Headworth to bed, and that the parlour was at their service
for a private interview, but Mark answered, 'My wife is anxious to
hear.  She knows all that I do, and is quite prepared to hear
whatever Mr. Dutton may not object to saying before her.'

So they bade good-night to Mary, and went on together to the next
house, Mr. Dutton saying 'You have much to forgive me, Mr. Egremont;
I feel as if I had deserted the ship just as I had induced you to
embark in it.'

'You did not guess how ill it would be steered without you,' returned
Mark, with a sigh.  'Do not fear to speak out before my wife, even if
we are sinking.  She will hear it bravely, and smile to the last.'

The room which Mr. Dutton entered was not like the cabin of a sinking
ship, nor, as in his own time, like the well-ordered apartment of a
bachelor of taste.  Indeed, the house was a great puzzle to Monsieur,
who entered by invitation, knowing his way perfectly, thinking
himself at home after all his travels, and then missing his own
particular mat, and sniffing round at the furniture.  It was of the
modified aesthetic date, but arranged more with a view to comfort
than anything else, and by the light of the shaded lamp and bright
fire was pre-eminently home-like, with the three chairs placed round
the hearth, and bright-haired Annaple rising up from the lowest with
her knitting to greet Mr. Dutton, and find a comfortable lair for
Monsieur.

'Miss Nugent says that you set everything right that you do but look
at, Mr. Dutton,' she said; 'so we are prepared to receive you as a
good genius to help us out of our tangle.'

Mr. Dutton was afraid that the tangle was far past unwinding, and of
course the details, so far as yet known, were discussed.  There was,
in truth, nothing for which Mark could be blamed.  He had diligently
attended to his office-work, which was mere routine, and, conscious
of his own inexperience, and trusting to the senior partners, he had
only become anxious at the end of the year, when he perceived
Goodenough's avoidance of a settlement of accounts, and detected
shuffling.  He had not understood enough of the previous business to
be aware of the deterioration of the manner of dealing with it,
though he did think it scarcely what he expected.  If he had erred,
it was in acting too much as a wheel in the machinery, keeping his
thoughts and heart in his own happy little home, and not throwing
himself into the spirit of the business, or the ways of those
concerned in it, so that he had been in no degree a controlling
power.  He had allowed his quality of gentleman to keep him an
outsider, instead of using it to raise the general level of the
transactions, so that the whole had gone down in the hands of the
unscrupulous Goodenough.

Annaple listened and knitted quietly while the affairs were explained
on either hand.  Mark had had one serious talk with George Greenleaf,
and both had had a stormy scene with Goodenough.  Then Mr. Dutton had
telegraphed his arrival, and Greenleaf had met him in London, with
hopes, bred of long and implicit trust, that his sagacity and perhaps
his wealth would carry the old house through the crisis.

But Mr. Dutton, though reserving his judgment till the books should
have been thoroughly examined and the liabilities completely
understood, was evidently inclined to believe that things had gone
too far, and that the names of Greenleaf and Egremont could only be
preserved from actual dishonour by going into liquidation, dissolving
partnership, and thus getting quit of Goodenough.

Mark listened resignedly, Annaple with an intelligence that made Mr.
Dutton think her the more clearheaded of the two, though still she
could not refrain from her little jokes.  'I'm sure I should not mind
how liquid we became if we could only run off clear of Goodenough,'
she said.

'You know what it means?' said her husband.

'Oh yes, I know what it means.  It is the fine word for being sold
up.  Well, Mark, never mind, we are young and strong, and it will not
be a bit the worse for the Billy-boy in the end to begin at the
bottom of everything.'

'I hope--may I ask--is everything embarked in the poor old firm?'
said Mr. Dutton with some hesitation.

'All that is mine,' said Mark, with his elbow on the table and his
chin on his hand.

'But I've got a hundred a year, charged on poor old Ronnisglen's
estate,' said Annaple.  'All the others gave theirs up when they
married, and I wanted to do so, but my dear mother would not let me;
she said I had better try how I got on first.  Think of that, Mark, a
hundred a year!  Why, old Gunner or Thorpe would think themselves
rolling in riches if they only heard that they had a hundred a year!'

'You won't find it go far!'

'Yes, I shall, for I shall make you live on porridge, with now and
then a sheep's head for a treat!  Besides, there will be something to
do.  It will be working up again, you know.  But seriously, Mr.
Dutton, I have some things here of my dear mother's that really
belong to Ronnisglen, and I was only keeping till he comes home.
Should not they be got out of the way?'

'My dear, we are not come to that yet!  I hope it may be averted!'
cried Mark.

But Mr. Dutton agreed with the young wife that it would be much
better to send these things away before their going could excite
suspicion.  There was only a tiny silver saucepan, valued as a gift
of 'Queen' Clementina to an ancestress, also a silver teapot and some
old point, and some not very valuable jewellery, all well able to go
into a small box, which Mr. Dutton undertook to deposit with Lord
Ronnisglen's bankers.  He was struck with the scrupulous veracity
with which Annaple decided between what had become her own property
and the heirlooms, though what she claimed might probably be
sacrificed to the creditors.

Mark could hardly endure to see what made the crisis so terribly
real.  'That I should have brought you to this!' he said to his wife,
when their visitor had at length bidden them good-night.

'If we begin at that work,' said Annaple, 'it was I who brought you!
I have often thought since it was rather selfish not to have
consented to your helping poor Ursula with her heavy handful of a
father!  It was all money grubbing and grabbing, you see, and if we
had thought more of our neighbour than ourselves we might have been
luxuriating at the Home Farm, or even if your uncle had quarrelled
with you, he would not have devoured your substance.  I have thought
so often, ever since I began to see this coming.'

'My dear child, you don't mean that you have seen this coming!'

'My prophetic soul!  Why, Mark, you have as good as inferred it over
and over again.  I've felt like scratching that Badenough whenever I
met him in the street.  I must indulge myself by calling him so for
once in strict privacy.'

'You have guessed it all the time, while I only thought how
unconscious you were.'

'Not to say stupid, considering all you told me.  Besides, what would
have been the use of howling and moaning and being dismal before the
time?  For my part, I could clap my hands even now at getting rid of
Goodenough, and his jaunty, gracious air!  Come, Mark, it won't be so
bad after all, you'll see.'

'Nothing can be "so bad," while you are what you are, my Nan.'

'That's right.  While we have each other and the Billy-boy, nothing
matters much.  There's plenty of work in us both, and that good man
will find it for us; or if he doesn't, we'll get a yellow van, and
knit stockings, and sell them round the country.  How jolly that
would be!  Imagine Janet's face.  There, that's right,' as her
mimicry evoked a smile, 'I should be ashamed to be unhappy about
this, when our good name is saved, and when there is a blessing on
the poor,' she added in a lower voice, tenderly kissing her husband's
weary brow.





CHAPTER XXVII.
THE BOY OF EGREMONT.




'And the boy that walked beside me,
 He could not understand
 Why, closer in mine, ah, closer,
 I press'd his warm soft hand.'--LONGFELLOW.


The agony of a firm like Greenleaf, Goodenough, and Co. could not be
a rapid thing, and Mr. Dutton lived between London and Micklethwayte
for several weeks, having much to endure on all sides.  The senior
partners thought it an almost malicious and decidedly ungrateful
thing in him not to throw in his means, or at any rate, offer his
guarantee to tide them over their difficulties.  Goodenough's
tergiversations and concealments needed a practised hand and acute
head to unravel them, and often deceived Mr. Greenleaf himself; and
when, for a time, he was convinced that the whole state was so rotten
that a crash was inevitable, his wife's lamentations and complaints
of Mr. Dutton would undo the whole, and it was as if he were doing
them an injury that the pair accepted the comfortable prospect he was
able to offer them in Australia.

He would have made the like proposal to the Egremonts, but found that
Mark held himself bound by his promise to his father not to emigrate,
and thought of some kind of office-work.  Before trying to procure
this for him, however, Mr. Dutton intended to see his uncle, and try
whether the agency, once rejected, could still be obtained for him.
Learning from Miss Nugent that the Egremonts were in town, he went up
thither with the purpose of asking for an interview.

There was a new church in the immediate neighbourhood of his house in
a state of growth and development congenial to the St. Ambrose
trained mind, and here Mr. Dutton, after old Micklethwayte custom,
was attending the early matins, when, in the alternate verses of the
psalm, he heard a fresh young voice that seemed to renew those days
gone by, and looking across the central aisle his eyes met a pair of
dark ones which gave a sudden glitter of gladness at the encounter.
That was all he saw or cared to see.  He did not take in the finished
completeness of the very plain dark dress and hat, nor the womanly
air of the little figure, until they clasped hands in the porch, and
in the old tones Nuttie exclaimed:  'I've been hoping you would come
to London.  How is Monsieur?'

'In high health, thank you, the darling of the steamer both going and
coming.  I hope your charges are well?'

'My father is tolerable, just as usual, and my little Alwyn is
getting more delicious every day.  He will be so delighted to see
Monsieur.  I have told him so many stories about him!'

'Do you think I may call on Mr. Egremont?'

'Oh do!  He is ready to be called on between two and three, and we
always have Wynnie downstairs then, so that you will see him too.
And you have been at Micklethwayte.  I am afraid you found a great
change in Aunt Ursel.'

'Yes; but she is very peaceful and happy.'

'And I have to leave her altogether to dear excellent Miss Nugent.
It seems very, very wrong, but I cannot help it!  And how about Mark
and Annaple?'

'I think she is the bravest woman I ever met.'

'Then things are really going badly with the dear old firm?'

'I am hoping to talk to Mr. Egremont about it.'

'Ah!'

Nuttie paused.  Towards Mr. Dutton she always had a stronger impulse
of confidence than towards any one else she had ever met; but she
felt that he might think it unbecoming to say that she had perceived
a certain dislike on her father's part towards Mark ever since the
rejection of the agency and the marriage, which perhaps was regarded
as a rejection of herself.  He had a habit of dependence on Mark,
which resulted in personal liking, when in actual contact, but in
absence the distaste and offence always revived, fostered, no doubt,
by Gregorio; and Canon Egremont's death had broken the link which had
brought them together.  However, for his brother's sake, and for the
sake of the name, the head of the family might be willing to do
something.  It was one of Nuttie's difficulties that she never could
calculate on the way her father would take any matter.  Whether for
better or for worse, he always seemed to decide in diametrical
opposition to her expectation.  And, as she was certainly less
impetuous and more dutiful, she parted with Mr. Dutton at her own
door without any such hint.

These three years had been discipline such as the tenderest, wisest
hand could not have given her, though it had been insensible.  She
had been obliged to attend to her father and watch over her little
brother, and though neither task had seemed congenial to her
disposition, the honest endeavour to do them rightly had produced the
affection born of solicitude towards her father, and the strong warm
tenderness of the true mother-sister towards little Alwyn.

Ursula Egremont was one of those natures to which responsibility is
the best training.  If she had had any one to guard or restrain her,
she might have gone to the utmost limits before she yielded to the
curb.  As it was, she had to take care of herself, to bear and
forbear with her father, to walk warily with her household, and to be
very guarded with the society into which she was thrown from time to
time.  It was no sudden change, but one brought about by experience.
An outbreak of impatience or temper towards her father was sure to be
followed by his galling sneer, or by some mortification to her
desires; any act of mismanagement towards the servants brought its
own punishment; and if she was tempted by girlish spirits to relax
the quiet, stiff courtesy which she observed towards her father's
guests, there followed jests, or semi-patronage, or a tone of
conversation that offended her, and made her repent it.  Happily, Mr.
Egremont did not wish her to be otherwise.  One day, when she had
been betrayed into rattling and giggling, he spoke to her afterwards
with a cutting irony which bitterly angered her at the moment, and
which she never forgot.  Each irksome duty, each privation, each
disappointment, each recurrence of the sweeping sense of desolation
and loneliness had had one effect--it had sent her to her knees.  She
had no one else to go to.  She turned to her Father in heaven.
Sometimes, indeed, it was in murmuring and complaint at her lot, but
still it was to Him and Him alone, and repentance sooner or later
came to aid her, while refreshments sprang up around her--little
successes, small achievements, pleasant hours, tokens that her father
was pleased or satisfied, and above all, the growing charms of little
Alwyn.

The special grievance, Gregorio's influence, had scarcely dwelt on
her at first as it had done on her mother.  The man had been very
cautious for some time, knowing that his continuance in his situation
was in the utmost jeopardy, and Mr. Egremont had, in the freshness of
his grief for his wife, abstained from relapsing into the habits from
which she had weaned him.  When, however, the Canon was dead, and his
son at a distance, Gregorio began to feel more secure, and in the
restless sorrow of his master over the blow that had taken away an
only brother, he administered soothing drugs under another name, so
that Ursula, in her inexperience, did not detect what was going on,
and still fancied that the habit had been renounced.  All she did
know was that it was entirely useless for her to attempt to exert any
authority over the valet, and that the only way to escape insolently
polite disobedience was to let him alone.  Moreover, plans to which
her father had agreed, when broached by her, had often been
overthrown after his valet had been with him.  It was a life full of
care and disappointment, yet there was a certain spring of trust that
kept Ursula's youth from being dimmed, and enabled her to get a fair
share of happiness out of it, though she was very sorry not to be
more at Bridgefield, where she could have worked with all her heart
with May Condamine.  Moreover, Lady Kirkaldy's absence from London
was a great loss to her, for there was no one who was so kind or so
available in taking her into society; and Nuttie, though mistress of
her father's house, was not yet twenty-two, and strongly felt that
she must keep within careful bounds, and not attempt to be her own
chaperon.

But the very sight of her old friend, and the knowledge that he was
in the neighbourhood, filled her heart with gladness, and seemed like
a compensation for everything.  Mr. Egremont was in a gracious mood,
and readily consented to see Mr. Dutton--the friend who had been so
pleasant and helpful at Paris--and Nuttie gave her private
instructions to the footman to insure his admittance.

His card was brought in just as the father and daughter were
finishing luncheon, and he was received in Mr. Egremont's sitting-
room, where the first civilities had hardly passed before the door
was opened, and in trotted the golden-haired boy, so beautiful a
child that it would have been impossible not to look at him with
delight, even for those to whom his dark eyes and sweet smile did not
recall those that had once been so dear.

Mr. Egremont's voice took a fresh tone: 'Ah! here he comes, the old
fellow'--and he held out his hands; but the boy was intent on his own
purpose.

'Where's black doggie?' he asked in a silver-bell of a little voice,
but lisping a good deal; 'Wyn got penny for him.'

'Wynnie must be a good boy.  Kiss papa first, and Mr. Dutton,'
remonstrated the sister; and Alwyn obeyed so far as to submit to his
father's embrace, and then raising those velvety eyes to the
visitor's face, he repeated: 'Where black doggie?  Wyn want to see
him buy bun.'

'There! your fame has preceded you,' said Mr. Egremont, 'or rather
your dog's.'

'You shall see him,' said Mr. Dutton, taking the pretty boy almost
reverently on his knee, 'but he is at home now.  I could not leave
him out on the street, and I did not know if I might bring him in.'

'Oh, Mr. Dutton! as if Monsieur would not be welcome,' cried the
Nuttie of old times.  'I only wish I had stipulated for him, dear old
fellow.'

'Wyn want to see him,' reiterated the child.

'May I take him to see the performance?' said Mr. Dutton.  'I live
only at the corner of Berkshire Road, and there's a dairy just
opposite where Monsieur has been allowed to keep up his
accomplishment.'

Alwyn's legs, arms, and voice, were all excitement and entreaty; and
Mr. Egremont himself proposed that they should all come and witness
the feat; so Nuttie, in great glee, climbed the stairs with her
little brother to get ready; and when she came down again, found the
gentlemen deep, not in Mark Egremont's umbrellas, but in the gas and
smoke grievances which had arisen since the lease of the house had
been taken, and in which sympathy might be expected from a fellow-
inhabitant of the district.  Little Alwyn was, however, plainly the
lord of the ascendant, and unused to see anything else attended to in
his presence.  He took possession of Mr. Dutton's hand, and his
tongue went fast, nor did his father or sister seem to desire any
better music.  They reached an old-walled garden, with lilac and
laburnum and horse-chestnut blossoming above, and showing a mass of
greenery through the iron railing that surmounted, the low wall on
the street side, where Mr. Dutton halted and took out his key.

'Is this yours?' exclaimed Nuttie, 'I have so often wondered whose it
could be.'

'Yes, it was a country-house when I was of the age of this little
man, though you might not think it.'

'The increase of London had not been on that side,' said Mr.
Egremont.  'This must be a very valuable property!'

And Nuttie perceived that such an inheritance made Mr. Dutton much
more in his eyes than an ex-umbrella-monger; but no sooner was the
tall iron gate opened than Monsieur, beautifully shaved, with all his
curly tufts in perfection, came bounding to meet his master, and
Alwyn had his arms round the neck in a moment.  Monsieur had in his
time been introduced to too many children not to understand the
situation, and respond politely; and he also recognised Ursula, and
gave unmistakable proofs of being glad to see her.

Then the halfpenny was presented to him.  He wagged his queer tail,
smiled with his intelligent brown eyes, took it between his teeth,
and trotted across the street in the most business-like way, the
others following, but detaining the boy from keeping too close.
They found the creature sitting upright, tapping the floor with his
tail, the centre of rapturous admiration to all the customers already
in the dairy shop.  He received his bun, and demurely dropping on his
front legs, walked back with it to his master, and crossed the road
with it uneaten, rather to Alwyn's disappointment, but Mr. Dutton
said he would probably dispose of it in some hiding-place in the
garden until his evening appetite came on.  It was well he was a dog
of moderation, for there was great temptation to repeat the
entertainment more than was wholesome for him.

'There, Wynnie,' said Nuttie in a voice of monition, 'Monsieur
doesn't eat all his goodies at once, he keeps them for bedtime.'

It might be perceived that the over-supply of sweets was a matter of
anxiety to the elder sister.  To the nurse, who waited in readiness,
Alwyn was consigned for his walk, while his father and sister
accepted Mr. Dutton's invitation to look round his domain.  It would
have been small in the country, but it was extensive for the
locality, and there was a perfect order and trimness about the shaven
lawn, the little fountain in the midst, the flower-beds gay with
pansies, forget-me-nots, and other early beauties, and the freshly-
rolled gravel paths, that made Nuttie exclaim: 'Ah! I should have
known this for yours anywhere.'

'I have not had much to do to it,' he said.  'My old aunts had it
well kept up, even when they could only see it from their windows.
Their old gardener still lives in the cottage behind the tool-house,
though he is too infirm for anything but being wheeled about in the
sun in their Bath-chair.'

'You keep a large amount lying idle by retaining it as it is,' said
Mr. Egremont.

'True, but it is well to preserve an oasis here and there.'

Nuttie knew well that it was not for himself alone, and as they
entered the little conservatory, and her eye fell on the row of white
hyacinths, the very scent carried her back to the old times, and her
eyes grew moist while Mr. Dutton was cutting a bouquet for her in
accordance with well-known tastes.

'I shall put them in my room.  It will feel like home,' she said, and
then she saw that she had said what her father did not like; for he
was always sensitive as to any reference to her early life.

Mr. Dutton, however, took this opportunity of saying that he had been
backwards and forwards to Micklethwayte several times this spring.

'I hope you are well out of the concern there,' said Mr. Egremont.

'Thank you, sir; I have no share in it at present.'

'So much the better!'

'But I am very anxious about my friends.'

'Ah!'  But Mr. Egremont's attention was drawn off at the entrance of
the house by a new-fashioned stove of which Mr. Dutton did the
honours, conducting father and daughter into the drawing-room, where
obvious traces of the old ladies remained, and thence into his own
sitting-room, smelling pleasantly of Russia leather, and recalling
that into which Nuttie had been wont, before her schooldays, to climb
by the window, and become entranced by the illustrations of a
wonderful old edition of Telemaque, picked up at Paris.

Mr. Dutton made them sit and rest, for this had been a good deal of
exercise for Mr. Egremont; coffee was brought in, having been ordered
on their arrival, and therewith Mr. Dutton entered on an exposition
of the affairs of Greenleaf and Goodenough, which was listened to
with a good deal of interest, though Nuttie could not quite detect
whether it were altogether friendly interests in Mark's misfortunes,
or if there were not a certain triumph in the young man having run
into trouble by rejecting his offer.

Mr. Dutton explained that his present object was to induce the
friends of the family to prevent annoyance by preserving the
furniture and personals at a valuation; and Mr. Egremont readily
agreed to contribute to doing this, though he said the sisters and
stepmother were well able also to do their share.

'And then to give the young people a fresh start,' added Mr. Dutton.

'There are some men who are always wanting fresh starts,' said Mr.
Egremont, 'just as there are some vessels that are always unlucky.
And if you observe, it is just those men who are in the greatest
haste to hang an expensive wife and family round their necks.'

'I don't think poor Annaple can be accused of being expensive, papa,'
said Nuttie.  'Only think, when Wynnie has two nurses always after
him, her Willie has only the fraction of a little maid, who does all
sorts of work besides.'

'Yes, I never saw more resolute and cheerful exertion than Mrs. Mark
Egremont's,' said Mr. Dutton.

'She owes him something,' said Mr. Egremont, 'for she has been the
ruin of him.'

'Of his worldly prospects in one sense,' said Mr. Dutton quietly;
while Nuttie felt how much better and wiser an answer it was than the
indignant denial that trembled on her tongue.  'There can be no doubt
that they made a grievous mistake in their choice, and I
unfortunately was concerned in leading them into it; but no one can
see how they meet their troubles without great respect and
admiration, and I am especially bound to seek for some new opening
for them.  I have little doubt that some office work might be found
for him in London, but they are essentially country people, and it
would be much better for them if he could have some agency.  I
suppose the situation you offered him before, sir, is filled up? '

'Not really,' cried Nuttie.  'We have only a very common sort of
uneducated bailiff, who would be much better with some one over him.
You said so, papa.'

'Did he request you to apply to me?' said Mr. Egremont sharply,
looking at Mr. Dutton.

'Neither he nor she has the least idea of my intention; I only
thought, sir, you might be willing to consider how best to assist a
nephew, who has certainly not been wanting either in industry or
economy, and who bears your name.'

'Well, I will think it over,' said Mr. Egremont, rising to take
leave.

The carriage had been bidden to await them at the door for their
daily drive, and as Mr. Egremont leant back with the furs disposed
over him he observed: 'That's a man who knows how to take care of
himself.  I wonder where he gets his coffee, I've not drunk any like
it since I was at Nice.'  And Nuttie, though well knowing that Mr.
Dutton's love of perfection was not self-indulgence, was content to
accept this as high approbation, and a good augury for Mark and
Annaple.  Indeed, with Mr. Dutton settled near, and with the prospect
of a daily walk from church with him, she felt such a complete
content and trust as she had not known since she had been uprooted
from Micklethwayte.





CHAPTER XXVIII.
A BRAVE HEART.




'One furnace many times the good and bad may hold,
 Yet what consumes the chaff will only cleanse the gold.'
                                     Archbishop TRENCH.


Never was there a truer verse than that which tells us that in
seeking duty we find pleasure by the way, and in seeking pleasure we
meet pain.  It might be varied to apply to our anticipations of
enjoyment or the reverse.  Ursula had embraced her lot as a
necessity, and found it enlivened by a good many sunshiny hours; and
when she looked upon Mr. Dutton's neighbourhood as a continual source
of delight and satisfaction, she found that it gave rise to a
continual course of small disappointments.

In the first place, he did not walk home from church with her every
morning.  She looked for him in vain, even when she knew he was in
town.  He only appeared there on Sundays, and at intervals when he
had some especial reason for speaking to her.  At first she thought
he must have grown lazy or out of health to have thus dropped his old
Micklethwayte habits, but after a time she discovered by accident
that he frequented another church, open at a still earlier hour and a
little farther off, and she was forced to come to the conclusion that
he acted out of his characteristic precise scrupulosity, which would
not consider it as correct for her to walk home every day with him.
She chafed, and derided 'the dear old man' a little in her own mind,
then ended with a sigh.  Was there any one who cared so much about
what was proper for her?  And, after all, was he really older than
Mr. Clarence Fane, whom everybody in her father's set called
Clarence, or even Clare, and treated as the boy of the party, so that
she had taken it as quite natural that he should be paired off with
her.  It was quite a discovery!

There was another and more serious disappointment.  Mr. Egremont had
not seemed disinclined to consider the giving the agency to Mark, and
Nuttie had begun to think with great satisfaction of May Condamine's
delight in welcoming him, and of the good influence that would be
brought to bear on the dependents, when suddenly there came a
coolness.  She could trace the moment, and was sure that it was, when
Gregorio became aware of what was intended.  He had reason to dread
Mark as an enemy, and was likely to wish to keep him at a distance;
and it had been Ursula's great hope that an absolute promise might
have been given before he heard of the plan; but Mr. Egremont was
always slow to make up his mind, except when driven by a sudden
impulse, and had never actually said that the post should be offered
to his nephew.  Nuttie only detected the turn of the tide by the want
of cordiality, the hums and haws, and by and by the resumption of the
unkind ironical tone when Mark and Annaple were mentioned; and at
last, when she had been reading to him a letter from Mrs. William
Egremont full of anxiety for the young people, and yet of trust in
his kindness to them, he exclaimed, 'You've not been writing to her
about this absurd proposal?'

'I have not mentioned any proposal at all.  What do you mean?'

'Why, this ridiculous idea about the agency.  As if I was going to
put my affairs into the hands of a man who has made such a mull of
his own.'

'But that was not Mark's fault, papa.  He was junior, you know, and
had no power over that Goodenough.'

'He ought, then!  Never sail with an unlucky captain.  No, no, Mark's
honourable lady would not let him take the agency when he might have
had it, and I am not going to let them live upon me now that they
have nothing of their own.'

'Oh, papa, but you almost promised!'

'Almost!' he repeated with his ironical tone; 'that's a word capable
of a good deal of stretching.  This is what you and that umbrella
fellow have made out of my not giving him a direct refusal on the
spot.  He may meddle with Mark's affairs if he chooses, but not with
mine.'

Nuttie had learnt a certain amount of wisdom, and knew that to argue
a point only made her father more determined, so she merely answered,
'Very well;' adding in a meek voice, 'Their furniture, poor things!'

'Oh ay.  Their umbrella friend is making a collection for them.  Yes,
I believe I said I would contribute.'

Hot blood surged up within Nuttie at the contemptuous tone, and she
bit her lip to keep down the answer, for she knew Mr, Dutton intended
to call the next afternoon for her father's ultimatum before going
down to Micklethwayte, where the crisis was fast approaching, and she
had so much faith in his powers that she dreaded to forestall him by
an imprudent word.  Alas, Gregorio must have been on his guard, for,
though Nuttie was sure she heard her friend's ring at the usual time,
no entrance followed.  She went up to put on her habit to ride with
her father, and when she came down Mr. Egremont held out a card with
the name 'Philip Dutton,' and the pencilled request below to be
allowed to see Mr. Egremont later in the day.

'He has been denied!' exclaimed she in consternation.

'Hein!  Before we go out, sit down and write a note for me.'  And he
dictated--


     'Dear Sir--I will not trouble you to call again this
      afternoon, as I have decided on reflection that there
      is no employment on my estate suited to my nephew,
      Mark Egremont.

     'As I understand that you are raising a family
      subscription for rescuing his furniture from the
      creditors, I enclose a cheque for 50 for the purpose.
                                           --I remain--'


'Yours--what--papa?--' asked Ursula, with a trembling voice, full of
tears.

'Yours, etc., of course.  Quite intimate enough for an ex-umbrella-
monger.  Here, give it to me, and I'll sign it while you fill up the
cheque for me.'

That such should be the first letter that Nuttie ever addressed to
Mr. Dutton, since the round-hand one in 'which Miss Ursula wished Mr.
Duton to have the onner of a tee with me on my birthday, and I am
your affected little Nuttie'!

She hoped to explain and lament the next morning, after church.  He
would surely come to talk it over with her; but he only returned a
civil note with his receipt, and she did not see him again before his
departure.  She was greatly vexed; she had wanted so much to tell him
how it was, and then came an inward consciousness that she would
probably have told him a great deal too much.

Was it that tiresome prudence of his again that would think for her
and prevent impulsive and indignant disclosures?  It made her bring
down her foot sharply on the pavement with vexation as she suspected
that he thought her so foolish, and then again her heart warmed with
the perception of self-denying care for her.  She trusted to that
same prudence for no delusive hopes having been given to Mark and his
wife.

She did so justly.  Mr. Dutton had thought the matter far too
uncertain to be set before them.  The Canoness's vague hopes had been
the fruit of a hint imprudently dropped by Nuttie herself in a letter
to Blanche.  She had said more to Miss Nugent, but Mary was a
nonconductor.  Mr. Dutton's heart sank as he looked at the houses,
and he had some thoughts of going to her first for intelligence, but
Annaple had spied him, and ran out to the gate to welcome him.

'Oh, Mr. Dutton, I'm so glad!  Mark will be delighted.'

'Is he at home?'

'Oh no, at the office, wading through seas of papers with Mr.
Greenleaf, but he will come home to eat in a quarter of an hour.  So
come in;' then, as her boy's merry voice and a gruffer one were
heard, 'That's the bailiff.  He is Willie's devoted slave.'

'I hoped to have been in time to have saved you that.'

'Well, I'm convinced that among the much maligned races are bailiffs.
I wonder what I could get by an article on prejudice against classes!
I was thinking how much beer I should have to lay in for this one,
and behold he is a teetotaller, and besides that amateur nurse-maid,
parlour-maid, kitchen-maid, etc. etc.--'

'What bailiff could withstand Mrs. Egremont?  Perhaps you have tamed
him?'

'Not I.  The cook did that.  Indeed I believe there's a nice little
idyll going on in the kitchen, and besides he wore the blue ribbon,
and was already a devoted follower of young Mr. Godfrey!'

'However, if the valuation is ready, I hope you may be relieved from
him, if you won't be too much concerned at the parting!'

'Mrs. Egremont told us that our people are very good to us,' said
Annaple, 'and don't mean to send us out with nothing but a pack at
our backs.  It is very kind in them and in you, Mr. Dutton, to take
the trouble of it!  No, I'll not worry you with thanks.  The great
point is, hope for something for Mark to do.  That will keep up his
spirits best!  Poor Mr. Greenleaf is so melancholy that it is all I
can do to keep him up to the mark.'

'I have been making inquiries, and I have three possible openings,
but I hardly like to lay them before you.'

'Oh, we are not particular about gentility!  It is work we want, and
if it was anything where I could help that would be all the better!
I'm sure I only wonder there are so many as three.  I think it is
somebody's doing.  Ah! there's Mark,' and she flew out to meet him.
'Mark!' she said, on the little path, 'here's the good genius, with
three chances in his pocket.  Keep him to luncheon.  I've got plenty.
Poor old man, how hot you look!  Go and cool in the drawing-room,
while I wash my son's face.'

And she disappeared into the back regions, while Mark, the smile she
had called up vanishing from his face, came into the drawing-room,
and held out a cordial, thankful hand to his friend, whose chief
intelligence was soon communicated.  'Yes,' said Mark, when he heard
the amount entrusted by the family to Mr. Dutton, 'that will save all
my wife's poor little household gods.  Not that I should call them
so, for I am sure she does not worship them.  I don't know what would
become of me if she were like poor Mrs. Greenleaf, who went into
hysterics when the bailiff arrived, and has kept her room ever since.
I sometimes feel as if nothing could hurt us while Annaple remains
what she is.'

Mr. Dutton did not wonder that he said so, when she came in leading
her little son, with his sunny hair newly brushed and shining, and
carrying a little bouquet for the guest of one La Marque rosebud and
three lilies of the valley.

'Take it to Mr. Dutton, Billy-boy; I think he knows how the flowers
came into the garden.  You shall have daddy's button-hole to take to
him next.  There, Mark, it is a pansy of most smiling countenance,
such as should beam on you through your accounts.  I declare, there's
that paragon of a Mr. Jones helping Bessy to bring in dinner!  Isn't
it very kind to provide a man-servant for us?'

It might be rattle, and it might be inconsequent, but it was much
pleasanter than hysterics.  Billy-boy was small enough to require a
good deal of attention at dinner, especially as he was more disposed
to open big blue eyes at the stranger, than to make use of his spoon,
and Annaple seemed chiefly engrossed with him, though a quick keen
word at the right moment showed that she was aware of all that was
going on, as Mark and Mr. Dutton discussed the present situation and
future measures.

It was quite true that a man concerned in a failure was in great
danger of being left out of the race for employment, and Mr. Dutton
did not think it needful to mention the force of the arguments he was
using to back his recommendation of Mark Egremont.  The possibilities
he had heard of were a clerkship at a shipping agent's, another at a
warehouse in their own line, and a desk at an insurance office.  This
sounded best, but had the smallest salary to begin with, and locality
had to be taken into account.  Mr. Dutton's plan was, that as soon as
Mark was no longer necessary for what Annaple was pleased to call the
fall of the sere and withered leaf, the pair should come to stay with
him, so that Mark could see his possible employers, and Annaple
consider of the situations.  They accepted this gratefully, Mark only
proposing that she should go either to his stepmother or her own
relations to avoid the final crisis.

'As if I would!' she exclaimed.  'What sort of a little recreant
goose do you take me for?'

'I take you for a gallant little woman, ready to stand in the
breach,' said Mark.

'Ah, don't flatter yourself!  There is a thing I have not got courage
to face--without necessity, and that's Janet's triumphant pity.  Mr.
Dutton lives rather too near your uncle, but he is a man, and he
can't be so bad.'

This of course did not pass till Mr. Dutton had gone in to greet the
ladies next door, to promise to tell them of their child at length
when the business hours of the day should be over.

Shall it be told?  There was something in his tone--perfectly
indefinable, with which he spoke of 'Miss Egremont,' that was like
the old wistfully reverential voice in which he used to mention 'Mrs.
Egremont.'  It smote Mary Nugent's quiet heart with a pang.  Was it
that the alteration from the old kindly fatherliness of regard to
'little Nuttie' revealed that any dim undefined hope of Mary's own
must be extinguished for ever; or was it that she grieved that he
should again be wasting his heart upon the impracticable?

A little of both, perhaps, but Mary was as ready as ever to
sympathise, and to rejoice in hearing that the impetuous child had
grown into the forbearing dutiful woman.





CHAPTER XXIX.
A FRESH START.




'Did you say that Mark and his wife were come to Springfield House?'

'They come the day after to-morrow,' answered Ursula.  'Mark could
not finish up the business sooner.'

'Well, I suppose we must have them to dinner for once.  He has made a
fool of himself, but I won't have the Canoness complaining that I
take no notice of him; and it is easier done while he is there than
when he has got into some hole in the City--that is if he ever gets
anything to do.'

'Mr. Dutton has several situations in view for him.'

'In view.  That's a large order.  Or does it mean living on Dutton
and doing something nominal?  I should think Dutton too old and sharp
a hand for that, though he is quartering them on himself.'

'I believe there is nothing Mr. Dutton would like better, if he
thought it right for them, but I am quite sure Mark and Annaple would
not consent.'

'Ha, ha!' and Mr. Egremont laughed.  'Their nose is not brought to
the grindstone yet!  Say Saturday, then, Ursula.'

'Am I to ask Mr. Dutton?'

'Of course; I'm not going to have a tete-a-tete with Master Mark.'

So Ursula had the satisfaction of writing a more agreeable note to
Mr. Dutton than her last, and her invitation was accepted, but to her
vexation Mr. Egremont further guarded himself from anything
confidential by verbally asking Mr. Clarence Fane on that very day,
and as that gentleman was a baronet's son, she knew she should fall
to his lot at dinner, and though she was glad when this was the case
at their ordinary parties, it was a misfortune on the present
occasion.  She had not seen Annaple since her marriage, except at the
family gathering on the Canon's death, when she was very much
absorbed by the requirements of the stricken household; and Nuttie
expected to see her in the same subdued condition.  All Mr. Dutton
had said or Mary Nugent had written about her courage and
cheerfulness had given the impression of 'patience smiling at grief,'
and in a very compassionate mood she started for a forenoon call at
Springfield House; but, early as it was, nobody was at home, unless
it might be the little boy, whose voice she thought she heard while
waiting at the gate.

She was out driving with her father afterwards in the long summer
evening, and only found Mark's card on returning just in time to
dress.  It was a bright glaring day, and she was sitting by the
window, rather inattentively listening to Mr. Fane's criticism of a
new performance at one of the theatres, when she heard the bell, and
there entered the slight, bright creature who might still have been
taken for a mere girl.  The refined though pronounced features, the
transparent complexion, crispy yellow hair and merry eyes, were as
sunbeam-like as at the Rectory garden-party almost five years ago,
and the black dress only marked the contrast, and made the
slenderness of the figure more evident.

Mark looked older, and wrung his cousin's hand with a pressure of
gratitude and feeling, but Annaple's was a light little gay kiss, and
there was an entire unconsciousness about her of the role of poor
relation.  She made an easy little acknowledgment of the introduction
of Mr. Fane, and, as Mr. Egremont appeared the next moment, exchanged
greetings with him in a lively ordinary fashion.

This was just what he liked.  He only wanted to forget what was
unpleasant, and, giggling Scotch girl as she was, he was relieved to
find that she could not only show well-bred interest in the surface
matters of the time, but put in bright flashes of eagerness and
originality, well seconded by Mr. Dutton.  Mr. Fane was always a
professor of small talk, and Nuttie had learnt to use the current
change of society, so that though Mark was somewhat silent, the
dinner was exceedingly pleasant and lively; and, as Mr. Fane remarked
afterwards, he had been asked to enliven a doleful feast to ruined
kindred, he could only say he wished prosperity always made people so
agreeable.

'This is all high spirit and self-respect,' thought Nuttie.  'Annaple
is talking as I am, from the teeth outwards.  I shall have it out
with her when we go upstairs!  At any rate my father is pleased with
her!'

Nuttie made the signal to move as soon as she could, and as they went
upstairs, put her arm round the slim waist and gave a sympathetic
pressure, but the voice that addressed her had still the cheery ring
that she fancied had been only assumed.

'I'm sorry I missed you, but we set out early and made a day of it;
and oh! we've been into such funny places as I never dreamt of!  You
didn't see my boy?'

'No.  I thought I heard him.  I must see him to-morrow.'

'And I must see yours.  May it not be a pleasure to-night?  I've no
doubt you go and gloat over him at night.'

'Well, I do generally run up after dinner; but after your day, I
can't think of dragging you up all these stairs.'

'Oh, that's nothing!  Only you see it is jollier to have my Billy-boy
in the next room.'

They were mounting all the time, and were received in the day nursery
by the old Rectory nurse, much increased in dignity, but inclined to
be pathetic as she inquired after 'Mr. Mark,' while Annaple, like a
little insensible being, answered with provoking complacency as to
his perfect health, and begged Mrs. Poole to bring Master Alwyn to
play in the garden at Springfield with her Willie.  In fact there was
a general invitation already to Alwyn to play there, but his
attendants so much preferred the society of their congeners in the
parks that they did not avail themselves of it nearly as often as
Ursula wished.

Little Alwyn asleep was, of course, a beautiful sight, with a
precious old headless rabbit pressed tight to his cheek; Annaple's
face grew tender as she looked at the motherless creature; and she
admired him to any extent except saying that he excelled her own.
Being more than a year the elder, there could be no rivalry as to
accomplishments; but as soon as they were out of the nursery hush,
Annaple laughed her way down again with tales of Billy-boy's wonder
at his first experiences of travelling.  They sat down among the
plants in the balcony, as far from the lamps as possible, and talked
themselves into intimacy over Micklethwayte.  There are two Eden
homes in people's lives, one that of later childhood, the other the
first of wedded happiness, and St. Ambrose Road had the same halo to
both of these; for both had been uprooted from it against their will;
the chief difference being that Ursula could cast longing, lingering
looks behind, while Annaple held herself resolutely steeled against
sentiment, and would only turn it off by something absurd.  Nothing
was absolutely settled yet; Mark had been presenting himself at
offices, and she had been seeing rooms and lodgings.

'The insurance office sounds the best, and would be the least shock
to our belongings,' said Annaple; 'but it seems to lead to nothing.
He would not get on unless we had capital to invest, and even if we
had any, you wouldn't catch us doing that again!'

'Does Mr. Dutton advise that?'

'No, he only thought we should like it better; but we are quite past
caring for people's feelings in the matter.  They couldn't pity us
worse than they do.  I incline to Stubbs and Co.  One of them was
once in the Greenleaf office, and has a regard for anything from
thence; besides Mark would have something to do besides desk work.
He would have to judge of samples, and see to the taking in and
storing of goods.  He does know something about that, and I'm sure it
would agree with him better than an unmitigated high stool, with his
nose to a desk.'

'I should like it better.'

'That's right!  Now I have got some one to say so.  Besides, rising
is possible, if one gets very useful.  I mean to be Mrs. Alderman, if
not my Lady Mayoress, before we have done.  Then they have a great
big almost deserted set of rooms over the warehouse, where we might
live and look after the place.'

'Oh! but should you like that?'

'Mr. Dutton wants us to live out in some of the suburban places,
where it seems there is a perfect population of clerks' families in
semi-detached houses.  He says we should save Mark's railway fare,
rent, and all in doctors' bills.  But people, children and all, do
live and thrive in the City; and I think Mark's health will be better
looked after if I am there to give him his midday bite and sup, and
brush him up, than if he is left to cater for himself; and as to
exercise for the Billy-boy, 'tis not so far to the Thames Embankment.
The only things that stagger me are the blacks!  I don't know whether
life is long enough to be after the blacks all day long, but perhaps
I shall get used to them!'

'Well, I think that would be worse.'

'Perhaps it would; and at any rate, if the blacks do beat me, we
could move.  Think, no rent, nor rates, nor taxes--that is an
inducement to swallow--no--to contend with, any number of
blackamoors, isn't it? even if they settle on the tip of Billy-boy's
nose.'

'I could come to see you better there than out in a suburb,' said
Nuttie.  'But what do these rooms look out upon?'

'On one side into their own court, on the other into Wulstan Street--
a quiet place on the whole--all walls and warehouses; and there's an
excellent parish church, Mr. Underwood's; so I think we might do
worse.'

Nuttie was very sorry that the gentlemen came up, and Mr. Fane
wandered out and began asking whether they were going to the rose
show.  Somehow on that evening she became conscious that Annaple
looked at her and Mr. Fane rather curiously; and when they met again
the next day, and having grown intimate over the introduction of the
two little boys, were driving out together, there were questions
about whether she saw much of him.

'Oh, I don't know!  He is the nicest, on the whole, of papa's
friends; he can talk of something besides'--Nuttie paused over her
'besides,'--'horseyness, and all that sort of thing--he is not so
like an old satyr as some of them are; and so he is a resource.'

'I see.  And you meet him elsewhere, don't you, in general society?'

'I don't go out much now that Lady Kirkaldy is not in town; but he
always seems to turn up everywhere that one goes.'

'Ursula, I'm very glad of that tone of yours.  I was afraid--'

'Afraid of what?' cried Nuttie in a defiant tone.

'That you liked him, and he is not really nice, Nuttie.  Mark knows
all about him; and so did I when I lived with the Delmars.'

Nuttie laughed rather bitterly.  'Thank you, Annaple.  As if I could
care for that man--or he for me, for that matter!  I know but too
well,' she added gravely, 'that nobody nice is ever intimate at
home.'

'I beg your pardon.  I would not have worried you about it, only I
think you must take care, Nuttie, for Blanche mentioned it to us last
winter.'

'Blanche is an arrant gossip!  If she saw a grandfather and great
grandmother gossiping she would say they were going to be married.'

'Yes, as Mark says, one always swallows Blanche with a
qualification.'

'You may be quite sure, Annaple, that nothing like that will ever be
true about me!  Why, what would ever become of my poor little Wyn if
I was so horrid as to want to go and marry?'

She said it with an ineffable tone of contempt, just like the
original Nuttie, who seemed to be recalled by association with
Annaple.

That sojourn of Mark and his wife at Springfield House was a bright
spot in that summer.  If it had been only that Annaple's presence
gave the free entree to such an island of old Micklethwayte, it would
have been a great pleasure to her; but there was besides the
happiness of confidence and unrestraint in their society, a restful
enjoyment only to be appreciated by living the guarded life of
constraint that was hers.  She was so seldom thrown among people whom
she could admire and look up to.  Annaple told her husband of
Nuttie's vehement repudiation of any intention of marriage.  'I am
sure she meant it,' she observed, 'it was only a little too strong.
I wonder if that poor youth who came to her first ball, and helped to
pick us out of the hole in Bluepost Bridge, had anything to do with
it.'

Annaple had an opportunity of judging.  Mr. Dutton would not have
brought about a meeting which might be painful and unsettling to
both; but one afternoon, when Nuttie was 'off duty' with her father,
and had come in to share Annaple's five o'clock tea, Gerard Godfrey,
looking the curate from head to foot, made his appearance, having
come up from the far east, about some call on Mr. Dutton's purse.

The two shook hands with pleased surprise, and a little heightening
of colour, but that was all.  Nuttie had been out to luncheon, and
was dressed 'like a mere fashionable young lady' in his eyes; and
when, after the classes and clubs and schools of his district had
been discussed, he asked, 'And I suppose you are taking part in
everything here?'

'No, that I can't!'

'Indeed!  I know Porlock, the second curate here very well, and he
tells me that his vicar has a wonderful faculty of finding
appropriate work for every one.  Of course you know him?'

'No, I don't;' said Nuttie.

'Miss Egremont has her appropriate work,' said Mr. Dutton, and the
deacon felt himself pushed into his old position at Micklethwayte.
He knew the clergy of the district very well, and how persistently
either Mr. Egremont, or perhaps Gregorio, prevented their gaining
admittance at his house; and he guessed, but did not know, that
Nuttie could not have got into personal intercourse with them without
flat disobedience.

Annaple threw herself into the breach, and talked of St. Wulstan's;
and the encounter ended, leaving the sense of having drifted entirely
away from one another, and being perfectly heart whole, though on the
one hand Ursula's feeling was of respect and honour; and Gerard's had
a considerable element of pity and disapprobation.

'No!' said Annaple when they were gone, 'he will not cry like the
kloarek in the Breton ballad who wetted three great missals through
with his tears at his first mass.  He is very good, I am sure, but he
is a bit of a prig!'

'It is very hard to youth to be good without priggishness,' said Mr.
Dutton.  'Self-assertion is necessary, and it may easily be carried
too far.'

'Buttresses are useful, but they are not beauties,' rejoined Annaple.

The warehouse arrangement was finally adopted, and after the three
weeks necessary for the cleaning and fitting of their floor, and the
bringing in of their furniture, Mark and Annaple began what she
termed 'Life among the Blacks.'

Nuttie had great designs of constantly seeing Annaple, sending her
supplies from the gardens and preserves at Bridgefield, taking her
out for drives, and cultivating a friendship between Alwyn and
Willie, who had taken to each other very kindly on the whole.  They
could not exactly understand each other's language, and had great
fights from time to time over toys, for though there was a year
between them they were nearly equal in strength; but they cared for
each other's company more than for anything else, were always asking
to go to one another, and roared when the time of parting came; at
least Alwyn did so unreservedly, for Nuttie had begun to perceive
with compunction that Billy-boy was much the most under control, and
could try to be good at his mother's word, without other bribe than
her kiss and smile.  Ah! but he had a mother!





CHAPTER XXX.
NUTTIE'S PROSPECTS.




'Three hundred pounds and possibilities.'
                            Merry Wives of Windsor.


Again Nuttie's plans were doomed to be frustrated.  It did not prove
to be half so easy to befriend Mr. and Mrs. Mark Egremont as she
expected, at the distance of half London apart, and with no special
turn for being patronised on their side.

Her father took a fancy for almost daily drives with her in the park,
because then he could have Alwyn with him; and the little fellow's
chatter had become his chief amusement.  Or if she had the carriage
to herself, there was sure to be something needful to be done which
made it impossible to go into the city to take up and set down Mrs.
Mark Egremont; and to leave her to make her way home would be no
kindness.  So Nuttie only accomplished a visit once before going out
of town, and that was by her own exertions--by underground railway
and cab.  Then she found all going prosperously; the blacks not half
so obnoxious as had been expected (of course not, thought Nuttie, in
the middle of the summer); the look-out over the yard very amusing to
Billy-boy; and the large old-fashioned pannelled rooms, so cool and
airy that Annaple was quite delighted with them, and contemned the
idea of needing a holiday.  She had made them very pretty and
pleasant with her Micklethwayte furniture, whose only fault was being
on too small a scale for these larger spaces, but that had been
remedied by piecing, and making what had been used for two serve for
one.

The kitchen was on the same floor, close at hand, which was well, for
Annaple did a good deal there, having only one young maid for the
rougher work.  She had taken lessons in the School of Cookery, and
practised a good deal even at Micklethwayte, and she was proud of her
skill and economy.  Mark came in for his mid-day refreshment, and
looked greatly brightened, as if the worst had come and was by no
means so bad as he expected.  All the time he had been at Mr.
Dutton's he had been depressed and anxious, but now, with his boy on
his knee, he was merrier than Nuttie had ever known him.  As to
exercise, there were delightful evening walks, sometimes early
marketings in the long summer mornings before business began--and
altogether it seemed, as Nuttie told her father afterwards, as if she
had had a glimpse into a little City Arcadia.

'Hein!' said he, 'how long will it last?'

And Nuttie was carried away to Cowes, where he had been persuaded to
recur to his old favourite sport of yachting.  She would have rather
liked this if Clarence Fane had not been there too, and continually
haunting them.  She had been distrustful of him ever since Annaple's
warning, and it became a continual worry to the motherless girl to
decide whether his civil attentions really meant anything, or whether
she were only foolish and ridiculous in not accepting them as freely
and simply as before.

Of one thing she became sure, namely, that Gregorio was doing
whatever in him lay to bring them together.

In this seaside temporary abode, great part of the London
establishment was left behind, and Gregorio condescended to act the
part of butler, with only a single man-servant under him, and thus he
had much more opportunity of regulating the admission of visitors
than at home; and he certainly often turned Mr. Fane in upon her,
when she had intended that gentleman to be excluded, and contrived to
turn a deaf or uncomprehending ear when she desired that there should
be no admission of visitors unless her father was absolutely ready
for them; and also there were times when he must have suggested an
invitation to dinner, or a joining in a sail.  No doubt Gregorio
would have been delighted to see her married, and to be thus free
from any counter influence over his master; but as she said to
herself, 'Catch me!  Even if I cared a rush for the man, I could not
do it.  I don't do my poor father much good, but as to leaving poor
little Alwyn in his clutches--I must be perfectly demented with love
even to think of it.'

There was a desire on the valet's part to coax and court little Alwyn
of which she felt somewhat jealous.  The boy was naturally the pet of
every one in the household, but he was much less out of Gregorio's
reach in the present confined quarters, and she could not bear to see
him lifted up in the valet's arms, allowed to play with his watch,
held to look at distant sails on board the yacht, or even fed with
sweet biscuits or chocolate creams.

The Rectory nursery had gone on a strict regimen and nurse was as
angry as Nuttie herself; but there was no preventing it, for his
father was not above cupboard love, and never resisted the entreaties
that were always excited by the sight of dainties, only laughing when
Nuttie remonstrated, or even saying, 'Never mind sister, Wynnie,
she's got Mrs. Teachem's cap on,' and making the child laugh by
pretending to smuggle in papers of sweets by stealth, apart from the
severe eyes of sister or nurse.

That cut Nuttie to the heart.  To speak of the evils for which self-
indulgence was a preparation would only make her father sneer at her
for a second Hannah More.  It was a language he did not understand;
and as to the physical unwholesomeness, he simply did not choose to
believe it.  She almost wished Alwyn would for once be sick enough to
frighten him, but that never happened, nor would he accept nurse's
statement of the boy being out of order.

Poor little Alwyn, he was less and less of an unmixed joy to her as
he was growing out of the bounds of babyhood, and her notions of
discipline were thwarted by her father's unbounded indulgence.  To
her the child was a living soul, to be trained for a responsible
position here and for the eternal world beyond; to her father he was
a delightful plaything, never to be vexed, whose very tempers were
amusing, especially when they teased the serious elder sister.

'Oh father! do you ever think what it will come to?' Nuttie could not
help saying one day when Mr. Egremont had prevented her from carrying
him off in disgrace to the nursery for tying the rolls up in dinner
napkins to enact Punch and Judy, in spite of his own endeavours to
prevent the consequent desolation of the preparations.

Mr. Egremont shrugged his shoulders, and only observed, 'An excuse
for a little home tyranny, eh?  No, no, Wyn; we don't want tame
little muffs here.'

Nuttie was obliged to run out of the room and--it must be confessed--
dance and stamp out her agony of indignation and misery that her
father should be bent on ruining his child, for she could not
understand that all this was simply the instinctive self-indulgence
of a drugged brain and dulled conscience.

She did, however, get a little support and help during a brief stay
in the shooting season at Bridgefield.  The Canoness was visiting the
Condamines at the Rectory, and very soon understood all the state of
things, more perhaps from her former nurse than from Ursula.  She was
witness to one of those trying scenes, when Nuttie had been
forbidding the misuse of a beautiful elaborate book of nursery
rhymes, where Alwyn thought proper to 'kill' with repeated stabs the
old woman of the shoe, when preparing to beat her progeny.

Just as she was getting the dagger paper-knife out of his little
hand, and was diverting the pout on his swelling lip, his father
became aware of the contest, and immediately the half conquered boy
appealed to him.  'Sister naughty.  Won't let Wynnie kill cross ugly
old woman, beating poor little children.'

'A fellow feeling! eh, sister?  Kill her away, boy, tear her out!
Yes, give her to sister, and tell her that's the way to serve sour
females!  I declare, Ursula, she has got something of your
expression.'

'Oh Wynnie, Wynnie!' said Nuttie, as he trotted up to her, 'is sister
cross and ugly?' and she opened her arms to him.

'Sister, Wyn's own sister,' said the child affectionately, letting
himself be kissed as he saw her grieved.  'She shan't be ugly old
woman--ugly old woman go in fire.'

So perilously near the flame did he run to burn the old woman that
Mr. Egremont shouted to her that in spite of all that humbug, she was
perfectly careless of the child, although if she had withheld him she
would probably have been blamed for thwarting him.

'Are you quite fair towards Ursula?' the aunt ventured to say when
the girl had gone to dress for walking down with her to the Rectory.
'It is hard on her, and not good for the boy to upset her authority.'

'Eh?  Why, the girl is just a governess manquee, imbued with the
spirit of all those old women who bred her up.  A nice life the poor
child would have of it, but for me.'

'I am sure she is devotedly attached to him.'

'Hein!  So she thinks; but trust human nature for loving to wreak
discipline on the child who has cut her out.'

'That is scarcely just, Alwyn.  She was greatly relieved to be cut
out.'

Mr. Egremont laughed at this, and his sister-in-law indignantly added
with all the authority of a successful parent, 'Anyway, nothing is so
bad for a child as collision between the authorities in a family.
Ursula is doing her best to act as a mother to that child, and it
will be very injurious to him to interfere with her influences.'

'She's a good girl enough--gives very little trouble,' he allowed,
'but I'm not going to have the boy sat upon.'

As he spoke the words, Nuttie returned, and as soon as she was out of
the house and out of hearing she exclaimed, 'Oh, Aunt Jane, you see
how it is!  How am I to prevent my boy from being utterly ruined?'

'I have been speaking to your father,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'but he
does not seem to understand.  Men don't.  A child's faults and
fancies seem such trifles to them that they can't see the harm of
indulging them, and, besides, they expect to be amused.'

'And is that poor dear little fellow to grow up spoilt?' said Nuttie,
her eyes hot with unshed tears.

'I hope not, Ursula.  I have great confidence in your influence, for
I see you are a sensible girl.'  This was astonishing praise from the
Canoness.  'But you will throw away your chances if you keep up a
continual opposition to what your father allows.  It will be much
less hurtful if Alwyn does get too much indulgence, and does a little
unnecessary mischief, than for him to learn to think you the enemy of
his pleasures, always wanting to check and punish him.  Oh yes,' as
Nuttie was going to answer, 'I know it is for his real good, but how
is that baby to understand that?  Indeed, my dear, I know how it is;
I have gone through the same sort of thing with Basil.'

'Oh, it could never have been so bad!'

'No, of course not; but I have had to allow what I did not like for
the child rather than let him see the shadow of difference of opinion
between us, and I don't think it has done him any harm.  The great
point is that you should keep that poor little fellow's affection and
respect, and make him unwilling to vex you.'

'That he is, dear little man.  He is sorry when he sees sister
grieved.  He is always distressed if anything is hurt or pained.  He
is really tender-hearted.'

'Yes, but boys are boys.  That feeling will fail you if you work it
too hard, and especially if you show vexation at his pleasures.  Keep
that for real evils, like falsehood or cruelty.'

'Not for disobedience?'

'The evil of disobedience depends much more upon the authority of an
order than on the child itself.  If he disobeys you under his
father's licence, you cannot make much of it.  You have him a good
deal to yourself?'

'Yes.'

'Then make use of that time to strengthen his principles and sense of
right and wrong, as well as to secure his affections.  My dear, I
never saw a girl in a more difficult position than yours, but I see
you are doing your utmost; only I am afraid the love of sedatives is
the same.'

'Oh aunt, I did think he had given it up!'

'You are inexperienced, my dear.  I see it in his eyes.  Well, I'm
afraid there is no stopping that.'

'Mother--' and Nuttie's voice was choked.

'She did her best, but you have not the same opportunities.  It can't
be helped with a man of that age.  Mark might have done something,
but he is out of the question now, poor fellow!'

'Indeed, Aunt Jane, I think Mark and Annaple are some of the happiest
people I ever saw.  I only wish my poor Alwyn were as forward as
their Billy, but I'm not even allowed to teach him his letters,
because once he cried over them.'

'I wish they had anything to fall back upon,' said Mrs. Egremont
anxiously.  'They are so unwilling to let any one know of their
difficulties that I feel as if I never knew in what straits they may
be.  You will be sure to let me know, Ursula, if there is anything
that I can do for them.'

That conversation was a great comfort and help to Nuttie, who was
pleased to find herself treated as a real friend by her aunt, and
perceived the wisdom of her advice.  But the watching over the Mark
Egremonts was a very difficult matter to accomplish, for when she
went back to London she was warned that Billy had the whooping cough,
rendering them unapproachable all the winter, so that she could only
hear of them through Mr. Dutton, whom she continued to see
occasionally whenever there was anything to communicate.  Mr.
Egremont rather liked him, and on meeting him in the street, would
ask him casually in to dinner, or to make up a rubber, or play
piquet, for he excelled in these arts, and still more in chess, and
an evening with Mr. Dutton was quite a red-letter time with Nuttie.
It gave her an indefinable sense of safety and protection; but it was
not always to be had, for her friend had many engagements, being one
of the active lay church workers, and devoting two regular evenings
in each week to Gerard Godfrey's eastern district, where he kept all
the accounts, had a model court and evening class, besides hospitably
resting tired clergymen and their wives in his pleasant quiet house.

In the spring Mr. Egremont was laid up with the worst rheumatic
attack he had yet had, in consequence of yielding to the imperious
will of his son, who had insisted on standing in a bleak corner to
see the Life Guards pass by.  On this occasion Nuttie did not prove
herself the heaven-born nurse that the true heroine ought to be, but
was extremely frightened, and altogether dependent on Gregorio, who
knew all about the symptoms, and when to send for the doctor and a
garde-malade.  Gregorio always talked French to Nuttie when he felt
himself in the ascendant, as he certainly was at present; but he
became much less gracious when he heard that Mrs. William Egremont
might be expected, declaring that madame would only excite his
master, and that her presence was quite unnecessary.  Her coming had
been volunteered, but it was a great boon to Ursula, who was thus
helped out in many perplexities, although Mrs. Egremont was a great
deal at her step-son's, and neither lady was of much avail in the
sick-room, during the stress of the illness.  It was never actually
dangerous, but there was great suffering and much excitement, and for
four or five days the distress and anxiety were considerable.  After
this passed off Ursula was surprised to find her company preferred to
that of her aunt.  She was a better souffre-douleur, was less of a
restraint, and was besides his regular reader and amanuensis, so that
as the force of the attack abated, he kept her a good deal in his
room during the latter part of the day, imparting scraps of
intelligence, skimming the papers for him, and reading his letters.

There was a lease to be signed, and, as soon as might be, Mr.
Bulfinch, the Redcastle solicitor, brought it up, and had to be
entertained at luncheon.  While he was waiting in the drawing-room
for Mr. Egremont to be made ready for him, he looked with deep
interest on the little heir, whom Ursula presently led off to the
other end of the room to the hoard of downstair toys; and an
elaborate camp was under construction, when by the fireside, the
Canoness inquired in a low confidential tone, 'May I ask whether you
came about a will?'

'No, Mrs. Egremont.  I wish I were.  It is only about the lease of
Spinneycotes farm.'

'Then there is none?'

'None that I am aware of.  None has ever been drawn up by us.
Indeed, I was wishing that some influence could be brought to bear
which might show the expedience of making some arrangement.  Any
melancholy event is, I trust, far distant, but contingencies should
be provided for.'

'Exactly so.  He is recovering now, but these attacks always leave
effects on the heart, and at his age, with his habits, no one knows
what may happen.  Of course it would not make much difference to the
boy.'

'No, the Court of Chancery would appoint the most suitable natural
guardians.'

'But,' said Mrs. Egremont, 'I am afraid that the personal property
when divided would not be much of a provision for her.'

'You are right.  The investments are unfortunately and
disproportionately small.'

'She ought either to have them all, or there should be a charge on
the estate,' said the Canoness decisively.  'If possible, he must be
made to move.'

'Oh, don't!' cried Nuttie, jumping up from the floor.  'He mustn't be
upset on any account.'

'My dear, I had no notion that you heard us!' exclaimed her aunt.  'I
thought Alwyn was making too much noise with his soldiers.'

'I beg your pardon,' said Nuttie, 'perhaps I should have spoken
sooner, but indeed he must not be worried and disturbed,' she added,
somewhat fiercely.

'Don't be afraid, my dear,' said her aunt.  'Mr. Bulfinch knows that
your father is in no condition to have such matters brought before
him.'

'Certainly,' said the old lawyer politely;' and we will trust that
Miss Egremont's prospects may soon come forward on a more auspicious
occasion.'

Nuttie could have beaten him, but she was obliged to content herself
with such a sweeping charge of her Zulus among Alwyn's Englishmen,
that their general shrieked out in indignation against such a
variation of the accustomed programme of all their games.

Nuttie thought she had defended her patient sufficiently, but she
found she had been mistaken, for when her aunt had left them, some
days later, her father began, 'We are well quit of her.  Those
troublesome dictatorial women always get worse when they are left
widows--taking upon them to say what their dear husbands would have
said, forsooth.'

'Aunt Jane was very kind to me,' said Ursula, not in the least
knowing what he was thinking of.

'To you.  Ay, I should think so, taking upon her to lecture me about
securing a provision for you.'

'Oh!  I hoped--'

'What?' he broke in.  'You knew of it!  You set her on, I suppose.'

'Oh! no, no, father.  She and Mr. Bulfinch began about it, not
meaning me to hear--about a will, I mean--and I told them I wasn't
going to have you worried, and I thought I had stopped it
altogether.'

'Stop a woman bent on her duty?  Hein!  But you are a good girl, and
shall come to no loss when we have to make your marriage settlement.'

'You won't have to do that, father!'

'Hein!  What do you keep that poor fellow Clarence Fane dangling in
attendance on you for? '

'I don't!  I'm sure I don't want him.  I would do anything to keep
him at a distance!'

'How now!  I thought your Grace condescended to him more than to any
one else.'

'I don't dislike him unless he has _that_ in his head; but as to
marrying him!  Oh--h--h,' such a note of horror that elicited a
little laugh.

'So hot against him, are we?  Who is it then?  Not the umbrella
fellow?'

'Father! how can you?' she cried, with a burning flush of
indignation.  He--why--he!  He has always been a sort of uncle, ever
since I was a little girl.'

'Oh yes, adopted uncles are very devout when young ladies rush out to
morning prayers at unearthly hours--'

'Father!' with her voice trembling, 'I assure you he doesn't--I mean
he always goes to St. Michael's, unless he has anything particular to
say to me.'

'Oh yes, I understand,' and Mr. Egremont indulged in a hearty laugh,
which almost drove poor Nuttie beside herself.

'Indeed--indeed,' she stammered, in her confusion and suppressed
wrath; 'it is nothing of that sort.  He is a regular old bachelor--he
always was.'

'At what age do men become old bachelors?  For he seems to me about
the age of poor Clarry, whom you seem to view as a bugbear.'

'I wish you would not think of such things, father; I have not the
slightest intention of leaving you and dear little Wynnie!  Nothing
should tempt me!'

'Nothing?  Hein!  Then you may as well be on your guard, Miss
Egremont, or we shall have pleadings that you have encouraged them--
church and world--or both, maybe.  You pious folk take your little
diversions and flirtations just like your poor sisters whom you shake
your heads at, never guessing how Gregorio and I have looked out at
you and your adopted uncle parading the street.'

'I wish Gregorio would mind his own business, and not put such things
in your head!' burst out Nuttie.

At which Mr. Egremont laughed longer and louder than ever.

Poor Nuttie!  It was terrible discomfiture, not only for the moment,
but a notion had been planted in her mind that seemed cruel, almost
profane, and yet which would not be dismissed, and made her heart
leap with strange bounds at the wild thought, 'Could it be true?'
then sink again with shame at her own presumptuous folly in
entertaining such a thought for a moment.

Yet whenever she actually encountered Mr. Dutton her habitual comfort
and reliance on him revived, and dispelled all the embarrassment
which at other times she expected to feel in his presence.





CHAPTER XXXI.
SPES NON FRACTA.




Summer had quite set in before Mr. Egremont was able to go out for a
drive, and then he was ordered to Buxton.

Nuttie only once saw her cousins before leaving town, for their
little boy fulfilled the nursery superstition by whooping till May;
and all intercourse was prohibited, till he had ceased for a whole
week to utter a suspicious sound.  Mr. Dutton had insisted on the
family spending a fortnight at Springfield House for change of air,
and it was there that Nuttie was permitted to see them, though the
children were still forbidden to meet.

Annaple looked very thin, but rattled as merrily as ever.  'No one
could guess,' she said, 'what a delight it was not to know what one
was to have for dinner?'

'To do more than know, I am afraid,' said Ursula.

'Well, next to the delight of knowing nothing at all about it--and
even that is only good for a holiday--is the delight of seeing a
pudding come out smooth and comfortable and unbroken from its basin.
"Something attempted, something done," you know.  It is quite as good
a work of art as a water-coloured drawing.'

'Only not quite so permanent.'

'No; it is only one's first pudding that one wants to embalm in a
glass case for being so good as not to leave its better part behind
in the basin, or to collapse as soon as it is in the dish.'

'Which my puddings always did in the happy days of old, but then I
was always hunted ignominiously out of the kitchen and told I wasted
good food,' said Nuttie.

'Yes, and waste is fearful when Mark and Billy have to eat it all the
same, like the poor cows with spoilt hay.  I wonder whether your old
experiences recall the joy of finding trustworthy eggs within your
price.'

'Ah, I was not housekeeper.  I only remember being in disgrace for
grumbling when there was no pudding, because the hens would not lay.'

'Though I heard a woman declaring the other day that there ought to
be a machine for them.  Oh, the scenes that I encounter when I am
marketing!  If I only could describe them for Punch!  I walked home
once with our porter's wife, carrying two most brilliant sticks of
rhubarb, all carmine stalk and gamboge leaf, and expressing a very
natural opinion that the rhubarb tree must be very showy to look at,
and curious to know in what kind of fruit the medicine grew.'

'Oh, Annaple! do you go yourself in that way?'

'Mark used to go with me, but, poor old fellow, he has ruinous ideas
about prices and quantities, and besides, now he is so hard worked-up
and down all day--he wants a little more of his bed in the morning.'

'And what do you want?'

'I never was a sleepy creature, and I get back in time to dress the
boy.  I generally find him at high-jinks on his father's bed.  It
uses up a little superfluous energy before the dressing.'

'But surely you have a servant now?'

'I've come to the conclusion that a workman's wife charing is a
better institution.  No. 1, a pet of Miss Nugent's, was a nice
creature, but the London air did for her at once.  No. 2, also from
Micklethwayte, instantly set up a young man, highly respectable, and
ready to marry on the spot, as they did, though their united ages
don't amount to thirty-nine.  No. 3 was a Cockney, and couldn't stay
because the look-out was so dull; and No. 4 gossiped with her kind
when I thought her safe in the Temple Gardens with Billy, whereby he
caught the whooping-cough, and as she also took the liberty of
wearing my fur cloak, and was not particular as to accuracy, we
parted on short notice; and I got this woman to come in every day to
scrub, help make the bed, etc.  It is much less trouble, and the only
fault I have to find with her is an absolute incapability of
discerning blacks.  I believe she thinks I have a monomania against
them.'

Still Annaple insisted that she did not work half so hard as her
nieces, Muriel and Janet, in their London season, and that her
economy was not nearly so trying and difficult as that which Lady
Delmar had been practising for years in order to afford them a summer
there; nor was her anxiety to make both ends meet by any means equal
to her sister's in keeping up appearances, and avoiding detrimentals.
The two sisters met occasionally, but Lady Delmar was so
compassionate and patronising that Annaple's spirit recoiled in off-
hand levity and rattle, and neither regretted the occupation that
prevented them from seeing much of one another.


A year passed by, chiefly spent by Mr. Egremont in the pursuit of
comparative health, at Buxton, Bagneres, and Biarritz, during which
his daughter could do little but attend to him and to little Alwyn.
The boy had been enough left to her and nurse during his father's
acute illness to have become more amenable.  He was an affectionate
child, inheriting, with his mother's face, her sweetness and docility
of nature, and he was old enough to be a good deal impressed with the
fact that he had made poor papa so ill by teasing him to stand in the
cold.  Mr. Egremont was not at rest without a sight of the child
every day, if only for a moment, and the helplessness and suffering
had awed the little fellow a good deal.  It was touching to see him
pause when galloping about the house when he went past the sick-room,
and hush his merry voice of his own accord.

And in the journeys, when his father's invalided state would have
made a fractious or wilful child a serious inconvenience, his good
temper and contentment were invaluable.  He would sit for hours on
his sister's lap, listening to whispered oft-told tales, or playing
at impromptu quiet games; he could go to sleep anywhere, and the
wonderful discoveries he made at each new place were the amusement of
all his auditors.  Sister was always his playfellow and companion
whenever she could be spared from her father, and she had an ever-
increasing influence over him which she did her best to raise into
principle.

Perhaps she never had a happier moment than when she heard how he had
put his hands behind him and steadily refused when Gregorio had
offered to regale him at a stall of bonbons forming only a thin crust
to liqueurs, which unfortunately he had already been taught to like.

'But I told him sister said I mustn't have them,' said Alwyn.  'And
then he made a face and said something in French about you.  I know
'twas you, for he said "soeur."  What was it?'

'Never mind, Wynnie dear. We had much better never know.  You were
sister's own dear steadfast boy, and you shall kiss mother's
picture.'

Nuttie had a beautiful coloured photograph of her mother, finished
like a miniature, which had been taken at Nice, in the time of Alice
Egremont's most complete and matured beauty.  She had taught Alwyn to
kiss and greet it every evening before his prayers, and such a kiss
was his reward when he had shown any special act of goodness, for
which, as she told him, 'mother would have been pleased with her
little son.'

Such another boon was his one Sunday evening at Biarritz, when she
found that while she was shut up at dinner with her father he had
voluntarily gone to church with nurse instead of playing on the beach
with some other English children.  'It was all very long and
tiresome,' he said, when asked if he liked it.

'Then why did you go, old man?  There was no need to drag you there,'
said his father.

'She didn't drag me,' said the boy; 'I walked.'

'You need not have walked then, Master Dignity.'

'Poor nursie couldn't go without me,' said Alwyn, 'and sister says
there's a blessing on those that go.'

'A blessing? eh! and what idea does that little head entertain of a
blessing?' said Mr. Egremont.

Alwyn lifted his soft brown eyes reverently and said, 'It is
something good,' speaking, as he always did, in a baby lisp
inimitable here.

'Well?'

'And it comes from God.'

'Well, what is it?  Can you see it?'

'No'--he looked in perplexity towards Nuttie, who was in agony all
the time, lest there should be a scoff that might remain in the
child's mind.

'Never mind sister.  Can you feel it?'

'Yes;' and the little face lighted with such a reality that the
incipient mockery turned into wonder on the next question.

'And how does it feel?'

'Oh, so nice!  It makes Wynnie glad here,' and he spread his hands
over his breast; and gave a little caper like a kid for very
gladness.

'There!' said Mr. Egremont, leaning back fairly conquered.  'Any one
might envy Wynnie!  Goodnight, my boy, blessing and all.  I wonder if
one felt like that when one was a little shaver,' he pursued, as
Alwyn went off to his bed.

'I think I did sometimes,' said Nuttie, 'but I never was half as good
as Wynnie!'

'What?' exclaimed her father.  'You! bred up among the saints.'

'Ah! but I hadn't the same nature.  I never was like--_her_.'

'Well--'tis very pretty now, and I don't know how we could stand a
young Turk, but you mustn't make a girl of him.'

'There's no fear of that,' said Nuttie.  'He is full of spirit.  That
old bathing woman calls him "un vrai petit diable d'Anglais," he is
so venturous.'

Which delighted Mr. Egremont as much as the concession that the boy's
faith was 'pretty' delighted Ursula.  Indeed, he went a little
further, for when she came back from her few minutes at Alwyn's
bedside he proceeded to tell her of the absolute neglect in which his
mother, a belle of the Almacks days, had left her nursery.  It was
the first time he had ever hinted at a shadow of perception that
anything in his own life had been amiss, and Ursula could not but
feel a dreamy, hopeful wonder whether her sweet little Alwyn could be
the destined means of doing that in which her mother had failed.  It
was at least enough to quicken those prayers which had been more
dutiful than trustful.

And then her hope sank again when she realised that her father's days
were spent between the lull of opiate, followed by a certain
serenity, then in a period of irritability, each being more or less
prolonged, according to health, weather, or entertainment, and closed
again by the sedatives in various forms.  It relieved her indeed, but
she felt it a wickedness to be glad of the calm, and she was aware
that the habit was making inroads on her father's powers.  Between
that and his defect of eyesight, he was often much confused,
especially about money matters, and was more and more dependent.

Would that it had been only upon her, but she was constantly certain
that Gregorio was taking advantage of his master's helplessness, and
keeping it up by all means in his power.  Yet what could be done?
For the valet was absolutely necessary to his comfort, and yet she
sometimes thought her father half in dread of him, and afraid to
expostulate about personal neglects, which became more frequent.
Things, that would have enraged him from others, were only grumbled
and fretted over, when Gregorio caused him real inconvenience by
absence or forgetfulness, and made very insufficient apology.  It
seemed like a bondage; Nuttie thought of her mother's efforts, and
blamed herself in vain.

It was during this journey that she heard of good Miss Headworth's
death.  The old lady's mind had long failed, and the actual present
loss to Nuttie was not great; but it seemed to close a long account
of gratitude such as she had not thoroughly felt or understood
before; and the link with Micklethwayte was severed.

For Mark and Annaple prevailed on Mrs. Egremont to install Miss
Nugent as governess to Rosalind and Adela.  In that capacity Nuttie
hoped to see a good deal of her; but of course was again
disappointed, for her father would not hear of returning to
Bridgefield.  It was draughty, and dull, and desolate, and nothing
suited him but London.





CHAPTER XXXII.
BLACKS IN THE ASCENDANT.




'Man's work ends with set of sun,
 Woman's work is never done.'--Proverb.


It was far on in May when Ursula found herself again in the sitting-
room over the warehouse.  Somehow it had not the dainty well-cared-
for air of erst.  The pretty table ornaments were out of sight; the
glass over the clock was dim, the hands had stopped; some of
Annaple's foes, the blacks, had effected a lodgment on the Parian
figures; the chintzes showed wear and wash, almost grime; the
carpet's pattern was worn; a basket full of socks was on the sofa;
and on the table a dress, once belonging to Annaple's trousseau, was
laid out, converted into its component parts.  The wails of a baby
could be heard in the distance, and the first person to appear was
Master William, sturdy and happy in spite of wofully darned knees to
his stockings.

'Mother's coming, if baby will stop crying,' he said, 'and lie in her
cradle.'

'Your little sister!  What's her name?'

'Jane Christian,' said the boy, with a much more distinct enunciation
than Alwyn, though a year older, had yet acquired.  'She does cry so!
She won't let mother make my new knickies out of her blue gown!'

Thoughts of the suits that Alwyn was discarding came across Nuttie.
Could they be offered without offence?  She asked, however, 'Do you
remember Alwyn--my Wynnie?'

'Wynnie gave me my horse,' cried the boy, unstabling a steed which
had seen hard service since the presentation.  'Where's Wynnie?'

'He is at home.  You must come and see him,' said Nuttie, who had not
been allowed to bring him till secure of a clean bill of health.
'But see, just outside the door, there's something for Billy.'

She had made her servant bring up the parcels to the passage outside,
and Billy was soon hugging a magnificent box of soldiers, wherewith
he pranced off to show them to his mother, leaving the doors open, so
that Ursula could more decidedly hear the baby's voice, not a healthy
child's lusty cry, but a poor little feeble wail, interspersed with
attempts at consolation.  'Come, won't she go to Emily?  Oh, Billy-
boy, how splendid!  I hope you thanked Cousin Ursula.  Baby Jenny,
now can't you let any one speak but yourself?  Oh! shall I never
teach you that "Balow, my babe," is not "bellow, my babe."  That's
better!  Now can't you let Emily have you, while I go to Cousin
Nuttie?'

'Let me come!  Mayn't I?' exclaimed Ursula, invading the room that
served as kitchen, where Annaple was trying to hush off the child and
make her over to a little twelve years old maid, who stood in
waiting, helping Willie meantime to unpack his soldiers, with
smothered exclamations of delight.

'Oh, Nuttie, how good of you!  Please to excuse the accompaniment.
There never was such a young lady for self-assertion to make up for
there being so little of her.'

And Annaple, very thin and tired looking, held up the child,
fearfully small and pinched for four months old, to be kissed by
Nuttie.

'Does she always go on like this?'

''Cept when she is asleep,' said Willie.

'Poor wee lassie,' said Annaple; 'there's great excuse for her, for
the food has not yet been invented that suits her ladyship.'

'You must come and consult nurse.'

'And how are you all?  I'm glad you are at hand, Nuttie!  Is Mr.
Egremont better?'

'As well as ever he is--lame and altogether an invalid,--but he has
not had such bad attacks of pain lately.'

'And his eyes?'

'About the same.  He can write, and tell one card from another, but
he can't read--or rather it hurts him to do so, and he can't bear a
strong light.  But, Annaple, how are you?  That child is wearing you
to a shadow.'

'Oh! I'm quite well--perfectly.  There, I think she is gone off at
last.  You had better walk her about a little, Emily; she will break
out again if we try to put her in the cradle.'

And having handed over the child with only a very low murmur, Annaple
left her combined kitchen and nursery.  She flew at the flowers
Nuttie had brought like a thirsty person, crying, as she buried her
face in them, 'Now for beauty!  Now Mark will be refreshed!  Ah!
here's a pretty pickle for a reception room.'

'Oh, don't put it away!  I could help you; I do so like that kind of
work.  It is so like old times.'

'It must be put away, thank you, for Mark will be coming in.  And the
saying about the public washing of garments is specially true of
one's own husband.  Ways and means are worrying to the masculine
mind.'

'I thought it was too early for Mark?'

'He has an appointment to keep at Charing Cross or thereabouts, so I
made him promise to come in in time to "put a bit in his head," as
our Irish charwoman says.'

'Then I can take him.  I have the carriage, and I must be at home by
half-past twelve.  I wish you would come too, Annaple.  There's
plenty of room.  You could show the baby to nurse, and the boys could
have a good game.  I would send you back in the evening.  Mark could
come on after his business is done.'

'Thank you, Nuttie, I can't to-day--for a whole heap of domestic
reasons; but, if you can get Mark to come, do, it would be so good
for him.'

'How is Mark?'

'He is well, quite well,' said Annaple; 'and so good and patient.
But you see, it does take it out of a man when that doleful little
noise won't stop all night!  We are both acquiring a form of
somnambulism, but when there's real out-of-door business to be done,
it is not like proper sleep.'

'Or when there's woman's indoor business, I am afraid,' said Nuttie,
much concerned at the extreme thinness of Annaple's face and hands,
and the weary look of her large eyes.

'Oh, one makes that up at odd times!' she answered brightly.  'One
thing is, this work suits Mark, he feels that he can do it, and he
gets on well with the men.  They asked him to join in their club, and
he was so much pleased.  He gets up subjects for them, and I am so
glad he has such a pleasure and interest to keep him from missing the
society he was used to.'

'It must be very good for them too.  Mr. Dutton said he really
thought Mark had kept them from going in for a strike.'

'Besides the glory of the thing,' said Annaple drawing herself up,
'Mr. Dobbs thought so too, and raised us ten pounds; which made us
able to import that little Bridgefield lassie to hold baby--when--
when Miss Jenny will let her.  He has some law copying to do besides,
but I don't like that; it burns the candle at both ends, and he does
get bad headaches sometimes, and goes on all the same.'

'You must both come and see my Wyn.'

'Ah! I had never asked after him.  I suppose he is as pretty as
ever,' said Annaple, who secretly thought his beauty too girlish
compared with her sturdy Billy.

'Prettier, I think, as he gets more expression.  We can't persuade
ourselves to cut his hair, and it looks so lovely on his sailor suit.
And he is so good.  I could not have believed a child could be so
quiet and considerate on a journey.  You should have seen him
standing by my father's knee in the railway carriage, and amusing him
with all that was to be seen, and stopping at the least hint that he
was chattering too much.'

'Billy is wonderfully helpful.  Ah--' and Annaple's eyes lighted up
as the step that had music in't came up the stair; and as Mark came
in, Nuttie thought him grown older, his hair thinner, his shoulders
rounded, and his office coat shabby, but she saw something in his
countenance there had never been before.  Ever since she had known
him he had worn a certain air of depression, or perhaps more truly of
failure and perplexity, which kept before her conscious mind the
Desdichado on Ivanhoe's shield, even when he was a gentleman at ease
at the luxurious Rectory; but there was now not only the settled air
of a man who had found his vocation, but something of the self-
respect and eagerness of one who was doing it well, and feeling
himself valued.

'Is baby--' he began.  'Oh, Nuttie!  Are you there?  Mr. Dutton told
me you were coming.  How is my uncle?'  And the voice was much
brisker than in the days of lawn-tennis.

'Father, father, look!' cried the boy.

'Why, Billy-boy, you are set up!  Zouaves and chasseurs!  I see where
they came from.'

During the mixture of greetings and inquiries, admiration of the
flowers, and the exhibition of Billy's treasures, Annaple glided
away, and presently placed before him a tray, daintily benapkinned
and set forth with a little cup of soup.

'Baby is really asleep, and Emily as proud as a Hielandman,' she
said.  'Now eat this, without more ado, for that good Nuttie is going
to set you down at Charing Cross.'

'This is the way we spoil our husbands, Nuttie,' said Mark.
'Refections served up at every turn.'

'Only bones!  The immortal pot au feu,' said Annaple.  'And you are
to go on after you have interviewed your man of steel, and have tea
with Nuttie, and pay your respects to your uncle, like a dutiful
nephew.'

'No, that I can't, Nannie; I promised Dobbs to go and see a man for
him, and I must come back as soon as I can after that.'

He looked--as to figure and air--much more like his old self when he
had changed his coat.  They fed him, almost against his will, with a
few of the forced strawberries Nuttie had brought.  Billy pressed on
him wonders from a Paris bonbon box, and Annaple fastened a rose and
a pink in his button-hole, and came down to the street door with her
boy to see him off.

'What do you think of her?' was Mark's first inquiry.

'Think!  As Mr. Dutton said long ago, never was braver lady!'

'Never was there a truer word!  I meant as to her health?  As to
courage, spirits, and temper, there is no question; I never saw them
fail; but are they not almost too much for the frame?' he asked
anxiously.

It echoed Nuttie's fear, but she tried to frame a cheerful answer.
'She is very thin, but she seems well.'

'She never complains, but I am sure her strength is not what it was.
She cannot walk out as she did at first.  Indeed, she gets no real
rest day nor night, and there's no relieving her!'

'She says you don't get much rest either.'

'More than my share,' said Mark.  'The poor little thing never sleeps
except in someone's arms, and if awake, is not content for a moment
except in her mother's.'

'And that has been going on four months?'

'Three.  Ever since we brought her back from Redcastle.  I have
nearly determined to move into some suburb when I get a rise at
Michaelmas, unless she improves.'

'Nurse might suggest something.'

'Or at any rate tell us what to think.  We showed her to a doctor,
and all he could propose was some kind of food, which was no more
successful than the rest.  Did you look at her, Nuttie?  She is a
pretty little thing when she is quiet, but she dwindles away--at
least so it seems to me, though Annaple will not see it, and--and if
we are not permitted to keep the little one, I dread what the effect
may be on her.'

Nuttie said something about bravery and goodness, thinking in her
heart that, if the blow fell, it would be better for all than the
perpetual suffering of the poor little sickly being.

'Ah! you don't know what her affections are,' said Mark.  'You did
not see her when she lost her mother, and there had been no strain on
her powers then.  However, I've no business to croak.  Many a child
gets over troubles of this kind, and, as Annaple says, little Jenny
will be all the more to us for what we go through with her.'

The carriage stopped, and Nuttie asked him if it would delay him too
long if she executed a commission about her father's glasses.  He had
plenty of time, but she was delayed longer than she expected, and on
her return was surprised to find that he had dropped asleep.

'Ah! that's what comes of a moment's quiet;' he said, smiling.

'Fine quiet in the roar of Ludgate Hill!'

'To a Cockney 'tis as the mill to the miller!  I like the full stir
and tide,' he added, looking out upon it.  'I never knew what life
was before!'

'I should have thought you never knew what hardness and hard work
were.'

'That's just it,' he answered, smiling.  'The swing of it is
exhilaration--very different from being a cumberer of the ground.'

'Oh, Mark, all the privations and anxiety!'

'The privation! that's nothing.  Indeed I am afraid--yes, I am
ashamed to say--it falls more on my dear wife than myself, but if we
can only wear through a year or two we shall get a further rise, and
my poor Annaple may get out of this drudgery.  Please God, she and
the little one can stand it for a time, and I think she has a spring
within her that will;' then, as he saw tears in his cousin's eyes, he
added, 'Don't be unhappy about it, Nuttie; I have had it in my mind
ever so long to tell you that the finding you at Micklethwayte was
the best thing that ever happened to me!'

Yes, so far as character went, Ursula could believe that it had been
so.  He was twice the man he would have been without the incentive to
work, and the constant exercise of patience and cheerfulness; but her
heart was heavy with apprehension that the weight of the trial might
be too heavy.  To her eyes the baby's life seemed extremely doubtful,
and Annaple looked so fragile that the increase of her burthens, any
saddening of the heart, might destroy her elasticity, and crush her
outright; while even Mark seemed to her to be toiling so close within
the limits of his powers that a straw might break the camel's back!

She longed to talk to Mr. Dutton about them, but she found herself
doomed to a day that perhaps Annaple would have thought more trying
than her harrowed life.  She was a little later than she had
intended, and her father had been waiting impatiently to have a note
read to him, so he growled at her impatience to run after 'that
Scotch girl.'  And the note happened to be of an irritating nature;
moreover, the cutlets at luncheon were said to be akin to
indiarubber, and there was the wrong flavour in the sauce.  Ursula
let that cook do what she pleased without remonstrance.

Even Alwyn did not afford as much satisfaction as usual, for the boy
was in high spirits and wanted to blow a little trumpet, which was
more than his father could stand.  He was very good when this was
silenced, but he then began to rush round the room daring his sister
to catch the wild colt as he went by.  This had likewise to be
stopped, with the murmur that Ursula spoilt the child.

She tried to compose matters by turning out the old toys in the
ottoman, but Alwyn had outgrown most of them, and did not care for
any except a certain wooden donkey, minus one ear and a leg, which
went by the name of Sambo, and had absorbed a good deal of his
affection.  He had with difficulty been consoled for Sambo being left
behind, and now turned over everything with considerable clatter in
search of him.  Alas!  Sambo could nowhere be found in the room, and
Alwyn dashed off to inquire of all the household after him.  His
father meanwhile growled at the child's noise, and went on trying the
glasses Nuttie had brought, and pronouncing each pair in turn
useless, vowing that it was no use to send her anywhere.

Upon this, back came Alwyn, terribly distressed and indignant, for he
had extracted from the housemaid left in charge, who was as cross as
she was trustworthy, 'What! that old broken thing, Master Egremont?
I threw it on the fire!  I'd never have thought a young gentleman of
your age would have cared for such rubbish as that.'

'You are a wicked cruel woman,' returned Alwyn, with flashing eyes;
'I shall tell papa and sister of you.'

And in he flew, sobbing with grief and wrath for the dear Sambo,
feeling as if it had been a live donkey burnt to death, and hiding
his face on his sister's breast for consolation.

'Come, come, Wyn,' said his father, who did not brook interruption;
'here's half a sovereign to go and buy a new donkey.'

'It won't be Sambo,' said Alwyn ruefully.

'But you should thank papa,' said Nuttie.

'Thank you, papa,' he said, with quivering lip, 'but I don't want a
new one.  Oh Sambo, Sambo! burnt!' and he climbed on Nuttie's lap,
hid his face against her and cried, but her comfortings were broken
off by, 'How can you encourage the child in being so foolish?  Have
done, Wyn; don't be such a baby!  Go out with nurse and buy what you
like, but I can't have crying here.'

He tried to stop in sheer amazement, but the ground swell of sob
could not be controlled.  Nuttie was going to lead him away, and
console him with more imaginative sympathy than could be expected
from the maids, but her father sharply called her back.  He wanted
her himself, and indeed there was no question which was the worse
spoilt child.  He might idolise Alwyn, but not so as to clash with
his own comforts.  The glasses being unsuccessful, Nuttie proposed to
drive back to Ludgate Hill for him to choose for himself, but he
would not hear of going into the heat of the City, and growled at her
for thinking of such a thing.

They took an aimless drive instead in the park, and Nuttie was nearly
baked while the carriage was stopped for her father to have a long
talk over the prospects of the Derby day with one of his most
unpleasant associates, who stood leaning over the door on the shady
side of the carriage, no one recking how little protection she
derived from her small fringed parasol.

She came home tired out, and thankful that her father went to rest in
his own room.  She climbed to the nursery, thinking to share Alwyn's
tea and comfort him, but she found only nurse there.  Nurse had a bad
foot, and dreaded hot pavement, so she had sent Master Alwyn out with
her subordinate, a country girl, to play in Mr. Dutton's garden till
it should be cool enough to go and make his purchase, and a message
had since arrived that he was going to drink tea there, and Mr.
Dutton would take him out.

His sister envied him the green shades, and had just done her best to
cool the back drawing-room and rest herself with a book, when Mr.
Fane was announced.  He talked pleasantly enough, and lingered and
lingered, no doubt intending to be asked to dinner, but she was
equally determined to do no such thing.  She had heard enough of
races for one day, she thought, and at last he took his leave, only
just before she dressed for dinner.

'I thought Fane was here,' said Mr. Egremont as he came in; no doubt
told by Gregorio.

'He has been, but he is gone.'

'You didn't ask him to stay and dine?'

'I did not know you wished it.'

'You might have known that I should have liked to see him.  I suppose
you think your sweet self society enough for any man?'

'I am sorry--'

'I'm sick of hearing you are sorry!  I believe there's nothing you
like so well as doing an ungracious thing to a friend of mine.'

Nuttie had learnt to hold her tongue on such occasions.

Dinner was nearly over, and her father had been grumbling again at
having no one to take a hand at cards with him, when the door opened
a little way, and Alwyn's pretty glowing face looked in.  He was come
to say good-night rather later than usual, and he ran up to his
sister with a little bouquet of yellow banksia and forget-me-nots.
'Mithter Button'--so Alwyn called him--'sent you this.  He said you
would like it, 'cause it came from one that grew at Mittletwait.  And
oh, look, look!'

He was hugging a little ship, which he proudly exhibited, while his
father's brow had darkened at the message.  'Did you buy that?' asked
his sister.

'Yes, Mr. Button went with me, and we sailed it.  We sailed it by the
fountain in Mr. Button's garden, And we made a storm!'

He danced about with glee, and Mr. Egremont observed, 'A dear
purchase for ten shillings.  Did it cost all that, Wyn?'

'They gived me a big silver half-crown, and I gived that to a little
boy what came to speak to Mr. Button, and had his toes through his
boots, and he was so glad.'

'Your money is not for beggars, Wyn.'

'The little boy was not a beggar, papa.  He came with a newspaper to
Mr. Button, and he is so good to his poor sick mother,' said Alwyn.
'See, see, sister!' turning the prow of his small vessel towards her,
and showing a word on it in pencil which he required her to spell
out.  It was Ursula.

'Oh Wynnie!' she said, duly flattered, 'did Mr. Dutton do that?'

'He held my hand, and I did!' cried Alwyn, triumphantly, 'and he will
paint it on Saturday.  Then it will dry all Sunday, and not come off,
so it will be the Ursula for ever and always.'

Here nurse claimed her charge; and when the goodnights were over, and
a murmur recommenced, Nuttie suggested that if Mr. Dutton was at home
perhaps he would come in and make up the game, but she encountered
the old humour.  'I'll tell you what, Ursula, I'll not have that
umbrella fellow encouraged about the house, and if that child is to
be made the medium of communication, I'll put a stop to it.'

The words were spoken just as Gregorio had entered the room with a
handkerchief of his master's.  Nuttie, colouring deeply at the
insult, met his triumphant eyes, bit her lips, and deigned no word of
reply.

An undefined but very slight odour, that told her of opium smoke,
pervaded the stairs that night.  It was the only refuge from
fretfulness; but her heart ached for her father, herself, and most of
all for her little brother.  And was she to be cut off from her only
counsellor?





CHAPTER XXXIII.
THE LOST HEIR.




'Seemed to the boy some comrade gay
 Led him forth to the woods to play.'--SCOTT.


Though it was the Derby day, Mr. Egremont's racing days were over,
and he only took his daughter with him in quest of the spectacles he
wanted.  When they came back, Nuttie mounted to the nursery, but no
little brother met her on the stairs, and she found nurse in deep
displeasure with her subordinate.

'I sent him out with Ellen to play in the garden at Springfield, and
swim his ship, where he couldn't come to no harm,' said nurse; 'being
that my foot is that bad I can't walk the length of the street; and
what does the girl do but lets that there Gregorio take the dear
child and go--goodness knows where--without her.'

'I'm sure, ma'am,' said the girl crying, 'I would never have done it,
but Mr. Gregory said as how 'twas his papa's wish.'

'What was?' said Nuttie.

'That he shouldn't never go and play at Mr. Dutton's again,' said
Ellen.

'I told her she was to take her orders off me, and no one else,'
returned nurse, 'except, of course, you, Miss Egremont, as has the
right.'

'Quite so; you should have told Mr. Gregorio so, Ellen.'

'I did, ma'am, but he said those was Mr. Egremont's orders; and he
said,' cried the girl, unable to withstand the pleasure of repeating
something disagreeable, 'that Mr. Egremont wouldn't have no
messengers between you and a low tradesman fellow, as made umbrellas,
and wanted to insinuate himself in here.'

'That's quite enough, Ellen; I don't want to hear any impertinences.
Perhaps you did not understand his foreign accent.  Did he say where
he was going?'

'I think he said he'd take him to the Serpentine to sail his ship,'
said Ellen, disposed to carry on asseverations of the correctness of
her report, but nurse ordered her off the scene, and proceeded, as a
confidential servant, 'The girl had no call to repeat it; but there's
not a doubt of it he did say something of the sort.  There's not one
of us but knows he is dead against Mr. Dutton, because he tried to
get master to get to sleep without that nasty opium smoke of his.'

There was bitter feud between nurse and valet, and Nuttie could have
exchanged with her many a lament, but she contented herself with
saying, 'I wish he would let Master Alwyn alone.  It is high time
they should come in.'

'The child will be tired to death, and all dirt!  His nice new sailor
suit too!  Going grubbing about at the Serpentine with no one knows
who, as isn't fit for a young gentleman,' moaned nurse.

This, however, was the worst fear she entertained, and it was with a
certain malicious satisfaction that she heard her master's bell for
Gregorio.

Nuttie descended to explain, and whereas the need was not very
urgent, and she looked distressed and angered at the valet, her
father received her complaint with, 'Well, the boy is getting too big
to be tied for ever to a nursery-maid.  It will do him good to go
about with a man.'

But as dressing-time came on, and still neither Gregorio nor Alwyn
appeared, Mr. Egremont became impatient, and declared that the valet
had no business to keep the child out so long; indeed, he would
sooner have taken alarm but for Nuttie's manifest agony of anxiety,
starting and rushing to listen at every ring at the bell or sound of
wheels near at hand.  At last, at eight o'clock, there was a peal of
the servants' bell, and the footman who answered it turned round to
the anxious crowd: 'Mr. Gregory!  He just asked if the child was come
home, and went off like lightning.'

'The villain!  He's lost him!' shrieked nurse, with a wild scream.
'Run after him, James!  Catch him up!' suggested the butler at the
same moment.  'Make him tell where he saw him last!'

James was not a genius, but the hall boy, an alert young fellow, had
already dashed down the steps in pursuit, and came up with the valet
so as to delay him till the other servants stood round, and Gregorio
turned back with them, pale, breathless, evidently terribly dismayed
and unwilling to face his master, who stood at the top of the steps,
white with alarm and wrath.

'Sir,' cried Gregorio, with a stammering of mixed languages, 'I have
been searching everywhere!  I was going to give notice to the police.
Je ferai tout!  Je le trouverai.'

'Where did you lose him?' demanded Mr. Egremont in a hoarse voice,
such as Nuttie had never heard.

'In the Park, near the bridge over the Serpentine.  I was speaking
for a few moments to a friend.  Bah!  Il etait parti.  Mais je le
trouverai.  Parker, he seeks too.  Fear not, sir, I shall find him.'

'Find him, you scoundrel, or never dare to see me again!  I've borne
with your insolences long, and now you've brought them to a height.
Go, I say, find my boy!' exclaimed Mr. Egremont, with a fierce oath
and passionate gesture, and Gregorio vanished again.

'Bring the carriage--no, call a cab;' commanded Mr. Egremont,
snatching up his hat.  'Who is this Parker?'

The servants hesitated, but the butler said he believed the man to be
a friend of Gregorio's employed at one of the clubs.  Nuttie
meanwhile begging her father not to go without her, flew upstairs to
put on her hat, and coming down at full speed found that Mr. Dutton,
passing by and seeing the open door and the terrified servants on the
steps, had turned in to ask what was the matter, and was hearing in
no measured terms from Mr. Egremont how the child had been taken away
from his nurse and lost in the Park while that scamp Gregorio was
chattering to some good-for-nothing friend.

To Nuttie's great relief, Mr. Dutton offered to go with the father to
assist in the search, and the coachman, far too anxious and excited
to let his master go without him in a cab, contrived to bring up the
carriage.  Some of the servants were ordered off to the various
police offices.  Poor nurse, who was nearly distracted, started in a
hansom on her own account, persuaded that she should see and
recognise traces of her darling at the scene of his loss, and she
almost raced the carriage, which was bound for the same spot.

Sluggish natures like Mr. Egremont's can sometimes be roused to great
violence, and then pour forth the long pent-up accumulations kept
back by indolence and indifference.  His only occupation during the
rapid drive was to vituperate his valet, the curse of his life, he
said.  To hear him talk, it would have seemed as if Gregorio had been
the tyrant who had kept him in bondage all these years, fully aware
of his falsehood, peculation, and other rascality, but as unable to
break the yoke as if he had been in truth the slave of anything but
his own evil habit and helpless acquiescence.

Would it last if Gregorio made his appearance at that instant with
Alwyn in his hand?  Or even, as Mr. Dutton confidently predicted, a
policeman might bring the boy home, before many hours were passed.
The chief doubt here was that Alwyn's defective pronunciation, which
had been rather foolishly encouraged, might make it difficult to
understand his mode  of saying his own name, or even that of the
street, if he knew it perfectly; but the year he had been absent from
London had prevented him from acquiring the curious ready local
instinct of the true town child, and he had been so much guarded and
watched that he was likely to be utterly at a loss when left alone;
and Nuttie was wretched at the thought of his terror and loneliness,
even while Mr. Dutton told her of speedy recoveries of lost children
through kind people or the police.

They found all the officials of the Park already aware and on the
alert, and quite certain of the impossibility of nurse's prime dread
that the boy had fallen into the water unseen by any one and been
drowned.  She was even ready to look into every bush, in case he had
been frightened and hidden himself; and nothing would satisfy her but
to stay making these researches, when her master had decided on
endeavouring to find 'Parker' at the club, and to ascertain from him
particulars of time and place.

He was found there.  The dinner-hour had brought him back, he being a
man in authority there, very well dressed and deferential, declaring
himself immensely distressed at the occurrence, and at having
accosted Gregorio and attracted his attention.  It was about four
o'clock, he thought, and he described the exact spot where the little
boy had been sailing his vessel fastened to a string.  They might
have been talking twenty minutes or half an hour when Gregorio missed
his charge, and since that time both had been doing all in their
power to find him, until half-past seven, when he had to return to
his club, and Gregorio went to see whether the child had been taken
home.

By this time Mr. Egremont looked so utterly exhausted, that Mr.
Dutton availed himself of the hope that the boy might be found safe
at home to take him back; but alas! nothing had been heard there.

The poor man was in a restless, unmanageable state of excitement,
almost as terrifying to his daughter as the distress that occasioned
it.  He swallowed a tumblerful of claret, but would not eat nor go to
bed; and indeed, Gregorio alone having had the personal charge of
him, latterly sleeping in his dressing-room, none of the other
servants knew what to do for him.  Mr. Dutton agreed with her that it
would be better to send for his doctor, as probably he ought to have
a sedative, and neither would take the responsibility of giving it;
while he himself declared he neither would nor could rest till he had
his boy again.

The doctor was dining out, and they had two terrible hours; while Mr.
Egremont paced to the windows; threw himself on the sofa; denounced
Gregorio; or, for a change, all the system of police which had made
no discovery; and Ursula for letting the boy be so helpless.  Mr.
Dutton sometimes diverted his attention for a few minutes, and hoped
he would doze, but the least sound brought him to his feet again, and
the only congenial occupation was the composition of a description of
poor little Alwyn's person and dress, which set Nuttie crying so
uncontrollably, that she had to run out of the room.

Dr. Brownlow came at last, and was very kind and helpful, taking the
command, and insisting that Mr. Egremont should go to bed, and take
the dose which he mixed.  Broadbent, the butler, was to take
Gregorio's place, but he was a ponderous man, without much tact, and
unused to the valet's office.  'I might just as well have a
rhinoceros about me,' said Mr. Egremont, in a fit of irritation; and
it ended, Nuttie hardly knew how, in Mr. Dutton's going upstairs to
smooth matters.  He came down after a time and said: 'I am not
satisfied to leave him alone or to Broadbent; I have his consent to
my sleeping in the dressing-room.  I am just going home to fetch my
things.  Let me find you gone when I come back.  You will hear no
more to-night.  Even if he is found, they will keep him till
morning.'

'It is of no use; I can't sleep.'

'Even if you don't, the mere restful position will make you fitter
for the morrow.  Will you promise me to undress and really go to
bed?'

'Oh yes! if you say I must,' said Nuttie drearily; following an
instinct of obedience.

'And remember,' he said, 'though I do not say it will be so, this may
be deliverance from bondage.'

'But what a terrible deliverance!'

'Bonds are not burst without something terrible.  No; don't be
frightened.  Remember there is safekeeping for that sweet little
fellow, wherever he may be.'

'Oh, Mr. Dutton, if I could pray for him; but the turmoil seems to
have driven away all such things!  My boy, my boy, where is he now?
Who has heard him say his little prayers?'

'His Heavenly Father has; of that we may be secure.  You will feel it
in the quiet of your own room.  Good-night.'

'And I shall know you are praying, better than I can,' murmured
Nuttie, as she returned his good-night, and crept up to her chamber.





CHAPTER XXXIV.
FETTERS RENT.




'The gods are just, and of our pleasant sins
 Make whips to scourge us.'--King Lear.


There was no real sleep for Ursula that short summer night.  She saw
the early dawn, listened to the distant roll of market-carts, and
wondered when it would be reasonable to be afoot, and ready to hear,
if aught there was to hear.  At any hour after seven, surely the
finders would have mercy and bring the welcome news.  And just before
seven she fell asleep, deeply, soundly, and never woke till past
eight, but that was just enough to revive the power of hope, and give
the sense of a new day.  But there was nothing to hear--no news.  She
found Mr. Dutton in the dining-room.  He had had to administer
another draught to her father, and had left him in a sleep which
would probably last for some time.  If she would go and sit in the
outer room, after her breakfast, he would go out to obtain
intelligence.

'You must have some breakfast,' she said, ringing the bell, and
wistfully looking over the blinds; then exclaiming: 'Oh, there's
Mark!  Has he heard anything?' and out she darted, opening the door
before he rang.  'Mark! have you found him?'

'Yes,' he said gravely, looking utterly amazed as she clasped her
hands, and seemed ready to fling herself on his neck with joy.  'I
came because it will be a great shock to my uncle.'

'Then it is so!  Nurse was right,' said Nuttie, turning deadly pale,
and standing as if before a iring platoon.  'Tell me, Mark, where did
they find him?'

'At the Faringdon Station.  I was sent for to identify him.'

'Stay,' said Mr. Dutton, as there was a wild horrified look in
Nuttie's eyes.  'Do you mean little Alwyn?'

'Little Alwyn!  No, certainly not.  What of him?'

'Gregorio managed to lose him in the park yesterday,' put in Mr.
Dutton.

'That accounts for it, then,' said Mark.  'No, it was Gregorio
himself, poor man.  He was knocked down by the engine, and killed on
the spot, just by the station, at eleven o'clock last night.  Our
name was found on him, and I was sent for early this morning.  There
was no doubt about it, so I came on here at once to let my uncle
know, little thinking--'

'Oh, it is dreadful!' cried Nuttie, sinking into a chair.  'Do you
remember, my father told him never to see his face again unless he
found Alwyn?'

Broadbent came in at the moment with the coffee-pot, and stood
suspended, as he was told what had happened, Mark adding the detail:
'He was crossing the line in front of the engine.'

'Yes, sir,' said the butler.  'It is an awful dispensation.  No doubt
he knew it was all up with him.  You may not be aware, sir, of the
subject of his conversation in the park.  Mr. Parker had just seen a
telegram of the result of the Derby, and he had heavy bets on Lady
Edina.  I am afraid, sir, there can be no doubt that he found a
voluntary grave.'

'We will not talk of that.  We cannot judge,' said Mark, shuddering.
'I said I would send some one from here to arrange what was to be
done after the inquest.'

Broadbent immediately undertook to go, if his master did not require
him, and this was thought advisable, as his services were certainly
not acceptable to Mr. Egremont.  Mark had thought himself likely to
be detained and had provided for his absence, and the awe-stricken
trio were consulting together over the breakfast-table, eating
mechanically, from the very exhaustion of agitation, when the door
opened, and Mr. Egremont in his dressing-gown was among them,
exclaiming: 'You are keeping it from me.'  He had been wakened by the
whispers and rushes of the excited maids, had rung his bell in vain,
dressed himself as best he could after so many years of dependence,
and stumbled downstairs, where, as with his daughter, it was
something like a relief to know that hope was not extinguished in
Alwyn's case.  But Mr. Egremont was in a very trembling, broken
condition, and much overcome by his valet's end after so many years
of intimate association.  Certainly, if either of the others had so
parted with the man, it would have been a horror in the recollection,
but he did not seem to dwell on it; and, indeed, attention was
distracted by every sound at the door, since each might bring news of
the missing child.

One of these tantalising rings proved to be a policeman with poor
Gregorio's keys, and a demand for an investigation into any papers he
might have left which would show his state of mind.  Mr. Egremont
was very much annoyed, declaring that he would have no stranger
meddle with them, and that he saw no use in such prying.  What
difference could it make to any living creature?  However, when he
found there was no help for it, he said he must do it himself.
Nuttie offered to help, but was sharply, strongly refused.  Mark
alone might and should help.

Then Mr. Dutton volunteered to go and explain matters to Mr. Dobbs,
so as to get freedom for Mark for at least the remainder of the day.
He would call at the police offices and see what was doing in the
search, put forward the advertisements, and obtain that the
Serpentine should be dragged, for he saw that only that measure would
remove one great terror from these anxious hearts.

'And,' he said to Mark, 'with your permission, I will bring back Mrs.
Egremont and the children if they will do me the honour to become my
guests.  She will be a comfort to Miss Egremont, and then you will be
at hand in the evening.'

Mark could only be thankful, and presently addressed himself to the
investigation, which his uncle insisted should be made in his own
presence, though the opiate kept him for the most part dozing in an
arm-chair, only rousing up now and then by some noise at the front
door, or putting queries, the replies to which startled him more and
more, as he grew more wakeful and Mark proceeded.

All, except a few unimportant bills and a betting-book, was locked
into a dressing-case that had once belonged to Mr. Egremont, and had
tricks of secret drawers that only he could explain.  It was full of
papers, and they were a strange revelation that Mr. Egremont might
well wish to withhold from his daughter.  They went very far back,
and of course did not come out in order of chronology, nor would Mark
have understood them but for exclamations and comments here and there
from his uncle.

Everything seemed to be there,--the old passport and certificate to
Gregorio Savelli, when he left his Savoyard home to be a waiter at a
hotel; a few letters in Italian, probably from his parents, which
Mark could not read, but which soon ceased; the counter-signed
character with which he had entered General Egremont's service; and
then came a note or two signed A. P. E., which Mr. Egremont regarded
with great annoyance, though they only consisted of such phrases as
'Back on Wednesday.  Find an excuse,' or in French, 'Envoyez
moi la petite boite!'  'Que la porte soit ouverte apres minuit.'

'That was the way,' groaned Mr. Egremont.  'The scoundrel! he kept
all those to be able to show me up to the General if he chose!  I was
a young man then, Mark, not the straitlaced lad you've always been.
And the General!  A bad old dog he was, went far beyond what I ever
did, but for all that he had no notion of any one going any way but
his own, and wanted to rein me in as tight as if he had been an
epitome of all the virtues.  And Gregorio seemed a good-natured young
fellow then, and made things easy for me, though no doubt he meant to
have me in his hands, in case I tried to shake him off.'

Another discovery affected him far more.  It was of a letter in
Alice's handwriting, addressed to Captain Egremont, in the yacht
Ninon--poste restante, Madeira.  He had never seen it, never known of
its existence; Gregorio had gone to inquire for the letters, and had
suppressed it.  Mr. Egremont had wondered how he had become aware of
the marriage.  His knowledge had from that time been used as a means
of enforcing the need of a good understanding with the heir.  Mr.
Egremont was much moved by the sight of the letter, and its date,
from Dieppe, about six months after he had left his young wife there.
He made Mark give it to him unread, handled it tenderly, struggled to
read the delicate pointed writing to himself, but soon deferred the
attempt, observing, 'There, there, I can't stand it now!  But you
see, Mark,' he added after an interval, 'I was not altogether the
heartless brute you thought me.'

Mark, as he told his wife afterwards, could not help thinking of the
old preamble to indictments, 'By the temptation of the devil.'

And by and by, out of a pocket-book bearing the date of the General's
death, came a copy of the certificate of the baptism of Ursula Alice,
daughter of Alwyn Piercefield and Alice Egremont, together with that
address which Miss Headworth had left at Dieppe to gratify Alice's
forlorn idea of a possible rescue, and which Gregorio had asseverated
to be non-existent.

Doubtless he infinitely preferred his master's wandering bachelor
life to the resumption of marriage ties, and thus he had contrived to
keep Mr. Egremont from meeting the Houghtons at Florence.  At the
same time the uncertainty as to Alice's fate had prevented any other
marriage.  Gregorio had taken care that, if Mr. Egremont had been
villain enough to make such an attempt, he should know that his
secret could be brought to light.

Compared with all this wickedness, the proofs of fraud and dishonesty
were entirely unimportant.  Gambling had evidently been a passion
with the valet, and peculation had followed, and Mark could have
traced out the full tide before the reinstatement of Mrs. Egremont in
her home, the gradual ebb during her reign, the diminished restraint
under her daughter.  The other servants had formerly been implicated,
but, except a young groom and footman, Mark thought the present set
quite free from the taint, and was glad to acquit Broadbent.  But the
last telegrams and the betting-book in the unhappy man's pocket
confirmed Parker's evidence that of late he had staked almost madly,
and had risked sums far beyond any means he could raise upon the
horse which had failed.  The bailiff at Bridgefield had, it had long
been guessed, played into his hands, but to what an extent Mark only
now discovered.

The result was that what he had learnt in the Park had so astounded
him that his inattention to the child had not been wonderful.  He
had--as Parker testified--sought the little fellow vehemently, and
had he been successful, he might yet have made some effort, trusting
to his master's toleration; but the loss and reproach had made him an
absolutely desperate man.  Was it blind flight or self-destruction?
That he had money about him, having cashed a cheque of his master's,
favoured the first idea, and no one would too curiously inquire
whether Mr. Egremont was aware of the amount.

It was only too true that, as he had said, Gregorio Savelli had been
the curse of his life, having become one of the whips left by
pleasant vices, and the breaking of the yoke had been not only at a
terrible price, but, to a man in his half-blind and invalid
condition, the actual loss of the person on whom he had depended was
a privation.  Dr. Brownlow, however, knew of a good man-servant just
set at liberty by the death of an invalid master, and promised to
send him on trial.

It was a day of agitations and disappointments, a sample of many that
were to follow.  There was not a sound of a bell that did not make
anxious hearts throb.  And oh! how many were spent on vain reports,
on mere calls of sympathy by acquaintance whom the father and sister
could not see, and on notes of inquiry or condolence that Nuttie had
to answer.

Annaple came and was a great help and support to her.  Poor nurse,
oblivious of her bad foot, or perhaps, willing to wreak vengeance on
it as the cause of all the mischief, had insisted on continuing her
search in the morning under all the thorns and rhododendrons where
she thought the dear lamb might have hidden and cried himself to
sleep, and at last had been brought home in a cab quite worn out and
despairing.  But the screaming baby proved to be a much better
comforter to her than any amount of reasonable argument.  To soothe
it, to understand what ailed it, to find suitable food for it, was an
occupation which made the suspense less intolerable.  The very
handling of an infant would have been congenial; and a sickly crying
one was only too interesting.  Willie was too near her darling's age
to be a welcome sight, but he was already a prime pet with the
servants at Springfield; and Annaple, secure that her children were
in safe and experienced hands, and overflowing with motherly sympathy
for the grievous loss, was ready to devote herself to Nuttie, whether
by talk, by letter writing, or by seeing inquiring friends.  She did
not expect to be of any use to Mr. Egremont, who had always held
aloof from and disliked 'the giggling Scotch girl,' but who came
drearily wandering at an unexpected time into the room where she was
sitting with his daughter, and presently was involved in their
conversation.  Whether it was the absence of the poor familiar, or
that Annaple was no longer a giggling girl, but a brave, cheerful
wife and mother, it was certain that he found the same comfort and
support in her presence as did Nuttie.  When fits of restless misery
and despair pressed hardest upon him, it was soon perceived that
Annaple's cheerful tact enabled her to deal with him as no one else
could do.  There was the restraint of courtesy towards her, such as
had worn out towards his daughter, and besides her sanguine optimist
spirit never became so depressed as did poor Nuttie's.  Mark went by
day to his work, but came back to dine at his uncle's, hear the
reports, and do what he could for him; and meantime Annaple spent the
chief part of the day in aiding Nuttie and Mr. Egremont, while her
baby really showed signs of improvement in nurse's keeping.  And so
the days went on, while every endeavour was made to trace the child,
but with no result but bitter disappointment.  Twice, strayed
children, younger than Alwyn--one even a girl--were brought as the
lost boy, and the advertisements bore fruit in more than one
harassing and heartless correspondence with wretches who professed to
be ready to restore the child, on promises of absolute secrecy, and
sums of money sent beforehand, with all sorts of precautions against
interference from the police.

The first of these created great excitement, and the pursuit was
committed to Mr. Dutton.  When it proved abortive, Mr. Egremont's
disappointment and anger were great, and he could not be persuaded
that all was not the fault of Mr. Dutton's suspicion and precaution
in holding back the money, nor could any one persuade him that it was
mere imposture.  When another ill-written enigmatical letter arrived,
he insisted that it was from the same quarter, and made Broadbent
conduct the negotiations, with the result that after considerable
sums had been paid in circuitous fashions, the butler was directed to
a railway arch where the child would be deposited, and where he found
a drab-coloured brat of whom he disposed at the nearest police
station, after which he came home savagely disgusted.

Nuttie was not much less so at what she felt as a slight to Mr.
Dutton as well as at the failure.  'When you are doing so much for
us.  We deserve that you should do nothing more,' she said with tears
shining in her eyes.

'Do not talk in that way,' he answered.  'You know my feeling for the
dear little fellow himself, and--'

'Oh yes,' interrupted Nuttie, 'I do trust to that!  Nobody--not the
most indifferent person, but must long to save him.  Yes, I know it
was doing you a wicked injustice to fancy that you could take offence
in that way at a father in such trouble.  Please forgive me, Mr.
Dutton.'

'As if I had anything to forgive.  As if there were anything on earth
that could come before the endeavour to recover him,' said Mr.
Dutton, too much moved for his usual precision of speech.

'Yes; he is _her_ child,' said Nuttie, with a trembling tearful
smile.

'_Her_ child!  Yes, and even if he were not, he is _your_ brother,'
said Mr. Dutton; then hastily gathering himself up, as if he had said
too much, he rose to take leave, adding as their hands clasped,
'Remember, as long as I live, you may count upon me.'


'Oh, I know, I know!  There's nobody like you, but I don't know what
I say in this awful suspense.  If I had only seen him lying white and
cold and peaceful, it would have been far better than to think of him
pining and miserable among wicked people, who would try to bring him
up like themselves.  Mother's own little boy!'

'It will not be allowed, it will not be allowed,' cried Mr. Dutton.
'God's Providence is still over him.'

'And there are prayers, I know--at our church and Mr. Godfrey's-and
all ours, but oh! it takes a great deal of faith to lean on them.  I
wonder if you would, Annaple, if it were Willy?'

'We will not ask Mrs. Egremont,' said Mr. Dutton, as Annaple made a
gesture of something like doubt.

'It is almost as bad,' said she, coming up and putting her arm round
Nuttie.  'But indeed, Mr. Dutton, she does trust, only it is very,
very sore, for her,--as it is for us all.'

'You are her great comfort,' said Mr. Dutton, as he shook hands with
her.

'He could hardly help thanking me,' said Annaple to her husband
afterwards.  'Mr. Egremont may well call him an adopted uncle.  I
should say he was a good deal more, poor man.'





CHAPTER XXXV.
THE HULL OF THE URSULA.




Ten days had passed, and Mark and Annaple were thinking that they
ought to return to ordinary life, and leave the bereaved ones to
endeavour to construct their life afresh under the dreadful wearing
uncertainty of their darling's fate.  Still they were detained by
urgent entreaties from father and daughter, who both dreaded their
departure as additional desolation, and as closing the door of hope.
And certainly, even this rest was good for Annaple; and her baby, for
whom nurse had discovered a better system, had really not cried more
for a whole day than 'befitted a rational child,' said the mother, as
she walked back to Springfield with her husband in the summer night,
after dinner, on the day that Broadbent's negotiations had failed.

'Nurse will break her heart at parting with her,' said Mark.  'I wish
we could afford to have her.'

'Afford, indeed!  Her wages are about a quarter of your salary, sir!
And after all, 'tis not the nurse that guards the child, as we have
seen only too plainly.'

'Do you think he is alive, Nan?'

'I begin to think not.  He is not so young but that he could make
himself known, and those advertise ments are so widely spread.  I am
sure poor Nuttie would be more at rest if she could give up hope.'

'I did not tell you before, Nan, but Dutton was going to-day to look
at a poor little unclaimed child's body that had been found in the
Thames.  He knew him better than I, so he went.'

'He would have come if--' said Annaple.

'Assuredly.  He meant to fetch nurse if he had any doubt, but
afterwards he was going to his court about his rents.  He always does
that on Saturday evenings.'

Mr. Dutton himself opened his door to the pair.

'Well,' said Mark.

'Certainly not.  The poor child was evidently much younger, and had
red hair.  But look here,' and he held out a battered something,
black with a white stripe.  Mark understood nothing, but Annaple
exclaimed, 'Is it his ship?'

'Yes, I could swear to it, for see,' and he pointed to some grimed,
almost effaced, but still legible capitals, which, however, scarcely
any one but himself could have read as "Ursula."  'I guided his hand
to make those the evening before he was lost,' said Mr. Dutton.

'Dear little man!  And where did you find it?'

'Where I never thought of doing so!  On the bed of a little crippled
boy in the next court to mine.  He is rather a friend of mine, and I
turned in to take him some strawberries.  I found him hugging this.'

'How did he get it?'

'Our "Liz" brought it to him.  Our "Liz" is a very wild specimen, who
has spent her life in eluding the school board officer till she is
too old for his clutches; but she has a soft spot in her heart for
her little brother, and I believe another for Gerard Godfrey.  We
must be very cautious, and not excite any alarm, or we shall be
baffled altogether.  I am not sure that I did quite prudently in
giving little Alf a fresh boat in exchange for this; but I could not
help bringing it home.'

'You did not see the girl?'

'No.  Those girls wander long and late on these hot nights, and I do
not think I could have got anything out of her.  I have been to
Gerard Godfrey, and the next step must be left to him.'

'The next question is whether you will tell those poor things at No.
5,' said Mark.

Mr. Dutton hesitated.  'I should have no doubt of giving Miss
Egremont the comfort of knowing that there was a possible clue, but
if her father insisted on setting on the police, there would be very
little more hope of success.  I am afraid it will be more prudent to
wait till we know what Godfrey says.  He hopes to see the girl to-
morrow evening at his mission class, but of course she is a very
uncertain attendant there.  No, I cannot trust myself.'

Annaple was forced to brook withholding the hope from the fainting
hearts all the ensuing Sunday, which was a specially trying day, as
Nuttie pined for her dear little companion with the pictures,
stories, and hymns that he had always enjoyed, and made pretty
childish remarks about, such as she began to treasure as memorable.

As soon as he could, early on Monday morning, Mr. Dutton repaired to
Gerard Godfrey's lodgings, and found that the young clergyman had
succeeded in seeing the girl, and had examined her so as not to put
the wild creature on her guard, and make her use the weapons of
falsehood towards one who had never been looked on as an ally of the
police.  It appeared that she had brought home the ship, or rather
its hull, from one of the lowest of lodging houses, where she had
employment as something between charwoman and errand girl.  She had
found it on what passed for a bed in its present condition, one
morning, when going to make the extremely slight arrangements that
the terrible lair, which served as a common bedroom, underwent, and
had secreted it as a prize for her little brother.

At first she had been stolid, and affected utter ignorance as to how
it got there, but Mr. Godfrey had entreated her as a friend to try to
discover; and had with all his heart made a pathetic description of
the girl (he durst not say lady) who had always been a mother to her
little brother, and now had lost him, and was in terrible uncertainty
as to his fate.  That came home to Lizzie's feelings, and she let out
what she had seen or picked up in the way of gossip,--that the ship
had been left behind by its owner, whether boy or girl Liz was
uncertain, for it had long fair hair, wore a petticoat, and had been
dosed with gin and something else when carried away.  They said it
had made noise enough when brought there by Funny Frank and Julia.
They were performing folk, who had come in after the Derby day to
have a spree, and to pick up another kid to do fairies and such like,
because the last they had had hurt his back and had to be left in the
workhouse.  Yes, she had heard tell that they had got the child from
Mother Bet, of whom Gerard had a vague idea as one of the horrible
hags, who not only beg themselves, but provide outfits for beggars,
including infants, to excite compassion.  Either she or one of her
crew had picked up the child and disposed of his clothes; and then
finding him too old and intelligent to be safely used for begging
purposes, she had sold or hired him out to these acrobatic
performers, who had gone off into that vague and unknown region, the
country.  Liz had no notion what was their real name, nor where they
would go, only that they attended races and fairs; and as soon as the
actual pleasure of communicating information was over, she was seized
with a panic, implored Mr. Godfrey to make no use of her information,
and explained that the people of the house were quite capable of
killing her, if they suspected her of betraying any of their
transactions.  It was impossible to bring any authorities to bear on
the quest; and Mr. Dutton held it wisest only to write a note telling
Mr. Egremont that he had obtained evidence that the child was living,
and that he was going in pursuit, but thought it safer to say no more
at present.  He gave the note to Mark at his office.  'I cannot trust
myself to see your cousin,' he said.  'I might be tempted to say more
than was consistent with Godfrey's honour towards his informant.'

'I think you are right,' said Mark.  'You had better leave me with
only indefinite knowledge, for I shall be hard pressed.  Do you not
go home first?'

'Yes, I go to pack up a few things and fetch Monsieur.  A run in the
country will do him good, and he may be a valuable auxiliary.  I
shall find no one at Springfield at this hour.'

'What is your plan?'

'I shall venture so far as to apply to the police for the names of
the usual attendants at races and fairs, and for some idea of their
ordinary rounds.  I have no doubt that these are known at the chief
offices.  For the rest, I must use my eyes.  But tell your cousin
that, with God's blessing, I hope to bring him back to her.'

'He will,' said Ursula, when Mark gave her the message, and from that
moment she was calmer.  She did not fret Mark with questions even as
much as Annaple did, she tried to prevent her father from raging at
the scant information, and she even endeavoured to employ herself
with some of her ordinary occupations, though all the time she kept
up the ceaseless watch.  'Mr. Dutton would not have said that without
good hope,' she averred, 'and I trust to him.'

Yet when four, five, six, eight, days had passed with no tidings, the
heart sickness grew almost more than she could bear, though she still
answered with spirit when her father again took to abusing the
umbrella-fellow for choosing to keep all in his own hands.

Even Annaple could not help saying to her husband that a precise,
prim, old bachelor was the very last person for a hunt in slums and
the like.  The very sight of him would put the people on their guard.
'And think of his fine words,' she added.  'I wish I could go!  If I
started with a shawl over my head, yoked to a barrel-organ, I should
have a far better chance than he will.  I declare, Mark, if he does
not succeed we'll do it.  We'll hire an organ, whereon you shall
play.  Ah! you shake your head.  A musical education is not required,
and I know I shall do something desperate soon, if that dear little
boy is not found.'





CHAPTER XXXVI.
NUTTIE'S KNIGHT.




'The night came on and the bairnies grat,
 Their minnie aneath the mools heard that.'


'LYNDHURST, 4th July.--Philip Dutton to Miss Egremont.  Found.
Waterloo, 6.15.'


'I knew he would,' said Nuttie, with a strange quietness, but as she
tried to read it to her father her voice choked, and she had to hand
it to Annaple.  But for the first time in her life she went up and
voluntarily kissed her father's forehead.  And perhaps it was for the
first time in his life that the exclamation broke from him, 'Thank
God!'

Perhaps it was well that the telegram had not come earlier in the
day, for Mr. Egremont was very restless, showing himself much shaken
in nerves and spirits before the time for driving to the station,
which he greatly antedated.  Nuttie could hardly keep him in the
carriage, and indeed had to persuade him to return thither, when he
had once sprung out on the arrival of a wrong train.

And after all, when the train did come, his blue spectacles were
directed to the row of doors at the other end, and Nuttie was
anxiously trying to save him from being jostled, when a voice said
'Here!' and close beside them stood Mr. Dutton, with a little boy by
his side who looked up in her face and said 'Sister!'  It was said in
a dreamy, almost puzzled way, not with the ecstatic joy Nuttie had
figured to herself; and there was something passive in the mode of
his hearing his father's 'My boy, my boy!'  Instinctively all turned
to the harbour of the carriage; Mr. Dutton lifted Alwyn in, and as
Nuttie received him, a pang shot across her, as she felt how light,
how bony the little frame had become in these three weeks.

'Come in!  Come back with us!  Tell us all!' said Mr. Egremont, as
Mr. Dutton was about to help him in.

'My dog,' said Mr. Dutton, while Alwyn looked up from nestling in
Nuttie's lap to say, 'Mithter Button come!  And Mothu!'

'We have room for him,' said Mr, Egremont graciously.  'Here, poor
fellow.'

'He has the right,' said Mr. Dutton, 'for he was the real finder.'

And Monsieur, curly and shiny, occupied with great dignity the back
seat beside his master, while Alwyn, in a silent but dreamy content,
as if he only half understood where he was, rested against his
sister's bosom with his hands in his father's.

'Come, old chap,' said his father cheerily, 'tell us all about it.'

But Alwyn only shuddered a little, raised his eyelids slightly, and
gave a tiny faint smile.

'I think he is very much tired,' said Mr. Dutton.  'There was a good
deal to be done to make him presentable this morning.  You must
forgive me for sacrificing his curls, there was nothing else to be
done with them.'

'Ah!' and Nuttie looked again.  The boy was in a new, rather coarse,
ready-made, sailor suit that hung loosely upon his little limbs, his
hair was short, and he was very pale, the delicate rosy flush quite
gone, and with it the round outline of the soft cheek; and there were
purple marks under the languid eyes.  She bent down and kissed him,
saying, 'Was Mr. Button nurse to you, Wynnie?'

He smiled again and murmured, 'Mr. Button made me boy again.'

After a question and answer or two as to main facts of place and time
of the discovery, Mr. Dutton told his story.  'I did not effect much
with my inquiries after the circuses.  All I heard of were of too
superior an order for kidnapping practices.  However, I thought the
only way would be to haunt fairs and races, and look at their camp-
followers.  At a place in Hertfordshire I saw a performance
advertised with several children as fairies, so I went to see it.  I
was soon satisfied that Alwyn was not there; but it struck me that I
had known the face of the prime hero, a fine handsome supple fellow,
who was called in the programme Herr Adalbert Steinfuggen, or some
such name.  Well, it seemed that he knew me, for as I struggled out
after a considerable interval, I heard myself accosted, "Mr. Dutton!
Sir, surely I have the honour of speaking to Mr. Dutton of
Micklethwayte?"  I assure you he was the very pink of politeness.  Do
you remember, Miss Egremont, Abel Stone?'

'Oh, Abel Stone!  He was a choir boy at Micklethwayte, I remember! He
was very handsome, and had a splendid voice; but he was a real monkey
for mischief, and nobody could manage him but mother.  She was always
pleading that he should not be turned out, and at last he ran away.'

'Yes; he went off with a circus, and there he found his vocation,
rose and throve, married the prima-donna, and is part owner.  He
seems very respectable, and was so friendly and affectionate that I
ventured to consult him; when, on hearing whom I was seeking, he
became warmly interested, and gave me just the information I wanted.
He said he had little doubt that Funny Frank was a clown called Brag,
with whom he had had words some years back for misusing the children.
He said he did not hold with harshness to the little ones in teaching
them to do the feats, which certainly were wonderful.  If they were
frightened, they were nervous and met with accidents; but make much
of them, and they thought it all fun, and took a pride and pleasure
in their performances.  However this Brag, though a clever fellow,
could not be hindered from bullying, and at last he went off with a
girl of the troupe and set up on their own account.  Stone, or
whatever he pleases to call himself, had met them several times, but
he spoke of them with great contempt as "low," and they did not
frequent the same places as he does.  However, he referred to one of
his men, and found that they had been at Epsom on the Derby day, and
moreover, that there was a report of them having lately narrowly
escaped being in a scrape about a child who had been injured.  There
was no scruple as to advising me where to look for them, or as to the
best means of detection.  Stone was very indignant, and made me
understand that all his young people were either to the manner born,
or willingly hired out by their parents.  I saw them in private life,
and they looked happy and well-fed, but that was no guarantee for
Funny Frank.  Well, I followed him up without success, trying each
place Stone had set down for me, till I came last night to Lyndhurst,
a very pretty place in the New Forest, where there is to be a fair
to-morrow, beginning this afternoon.  Stone advised me to look about
before the affair opened, while unpacking and arranging was going on.
Well, after all, it was very simple.  I strolled out with my dog
round the field where the vans and booths were getting into order.
There was what I thought a little girl in a faded red petticoat
sitting on the steps at the bottom of a yellow van with her head on
her hands.'

'That was me,' said Alwyn, lighting up.  'And Mothu came and kissed
Fan!'

'Yes,' said Mr. Dutton; 'I verily believe we might have missed one
another, but Monsieur ran up to him and, as I was actually whistling
him off, I heard a little voice say, "Mothu!  Mothu!" and saw they
were--well, embracing one another, and then came "Mithter Button,
Mithter Button, oh, take me home!'"

Eager caressing hands were held out to Monsieur, who jumped off the
seat to receive the pats and laudations lavished on his curly round
pate, and had to be reduced to order before Mr. Dutton could answer
the question whether he had any further difficulty or danger.

'I took him up in my arms, and a handsome truculent-looking woman
burst out on me, demanding what I was about with her child.  To which
I answered that she knew very well he was no such thing.  Her man
came swaggering up, declaring impudently that I had better be off--
but I believe he saw that the people who came round would not take
his part, for he gave in much more easily than I expected.  I
explained as loud as I could that this was a gentleman's son who had
been stolen from his nurse in the Park.  The man began to protest
that they had found him deserted, and taken him with them out of
charity, requesting to be paid for his keep.  So I thought it better
to give them a sovereign at once, so as to have no further trouble,
and get him away as fast as I could.  The woman came after me, making
further demands, but the sight of a policeman in the distance turned
her back.  I went up to him and explained.  I found he knew all about
the loss and the reward, and looked regretfully at my prize.  We went
back to the hotel, where I set Alwyn to rights as well as I could,
sent out for some clothes, such as the place would produce, and which
at least, as he says, made a boy of him again.  I'm afraid the
process was rather trying from such unaccustomed hands, though he was
very good, and he has been asleep almost all the way home, and, his
senses all as in a dream bound up.'

The heaviness--whether weariness or content, still continued.  Alwyn
seemed to find it too much trouble to talk, and only gave little
smiles, more like his mother than himself.  He clung quite
desperately to his sister when Mark offered to lift him from the
carriage, but nurse was close behind, and it was good to see the
little arms stretched out, and the head laid on her shoulder, the
hand put up to stroke her cheek, and the lips whispering 'Wyn's own
nursie.'  The jubilant greeting and triumphant procession with which
he was borne upstairs seemed almost to oppress him.  He appeared
almost as if he was afraid of wakening from a happy dream, and his
lively merriment seemed all gone; there were only beams of
recognition and gladness at 'Wyn's own nursery, Wyn's own pretty
cup,' touching it as if to make sure that it was real, and pleased to
see the twisted crusts, his special treat.

But he could not eat much of them, and soon laid his head down, as
one weary, with the exhaustion of content; and nurse, who had allowed
that Mr. Dutton had, considering all things, done much for the
outward restoration of the daintiness of her recovered child, was
impatient to give him the hot bath and night's rest that was to bring
back the bright joyous Alwyn.  So Nuttie only lingered for those
evening prayers she had yearned after so sorely.  When she held his
mother's picture to him to be kissed, he raised his eyes to her and
said: 'Will she come to me at night now?'

'Who, my darling?'

'She, mother dear.'

'Here's her picture, dear boy.'

'Not only the picture--she came out of it, when I cried, up on the
nasty-smelling bundle in the van all in the dark.'

'She came?'

'Yes, she came, and made it so nice, and hushed me.  I wasn't afraid
to go to by-by when she came.  And she sang.  Sister, can't you sing
like that?'

'Not here, I'm afraid, dear, dear boy,' she whispered, holding him so
tight that he gave a little cry of 'It hurts.'  Then came the
prayers, not a word forgotten, and the little voice joined in her
murmured thanksgiving for bringing him home.

She was much moved and awe-stricken at these words of her little
brother; but she had to dress in haste for dinner, listening the
while to her maid's rejoinings and vituperations of the wretches who
had maltreated the child.

When she came down she found no one in the drawing-room but Mr.
Dutton, whom her father had asked to the happiest meal that had
perhaps ever been eaten in that house.

She went towards him with winged steps in her white dress: 'Oh! Mr.
Dutton, we have not said half enough to you, but we never, never
can.'

He gave a curious, trembling half smile, as she held out her hands to
him, and said: 'The joy is great in itself,' speaking in a very low
voice.

'Oh! I am so glad that you did it,' cried Ursula.  'It would not have
been half so sweet to owe it to any one else.'

'Miss Egremont, do you know what you are saying?' he exclaimed.

'Don't call me Miss Egremont!  You never used to.  Why should you?'

'I have not dared--' he began.

'Dared!  Don't you know you always were our own Mr. Dutton--best,
wisest friend of all, and now more than ever.'

'Stay,' he said, 'I cannot allow you in your fervour to say such
things to me, unaware of the strength of feeling you are stirring
within me.'

'You! you!  Mr. Dutton!' cried Nuttie, with a moment's recoil.  'You
don't mean that you care for _me_.'

'I know it is preposterous--' he began.

'Preposterous!  Yes, that you should care one bit for silly, foolish,
naughty, self-willed me.  Oh, Mr. Dutton, you can't mean it!'

'Indeed, I would have kept silence, and not disturbed you with my
presumption, if--'

'Hush!' she cried.  'Why, it makes me so glad and so proud, I don't
know what to do.  I didn't think anybody was good enough for you--
unless it was dear, dear mother--and that it should be me.'

'It is true,' he said gravely, 'my younger days were spent in a vain
dream of that angel, then when all that was ended, I thought such
things were not for me; but the old feeling has wakened, it seems to
me in greater force than ever, though I meant to have kept it in
control--'

'Oh, I am glad you didn't!  It seems as if the world swam round with
wonder and happiness,' and she held his hand as if to steady herself,
starting however as Annaple opened the door saying, 'We've been
sending telegrams with the good news.'

Then an arch light came into her bright eyes, but the others were
behind her, and she said no more.





CHAPTER XXXVII.
FOUND AND TAKEN.




'The angels of the gateway
  Bent softly to the child,
 And stretched glad hands to take him
  To the kingdom undefiled.'--B. M.


'Come up and see him,' said Nuttie, as the dining-room door was shut.
'I must feast my eyes on him.'

Annaple replied by throwing an arm round her and looking into her
eyes, kissing her on each cheek, and then, as they reached the
landing in the summer twilight, waltzing round and round that narrow
space with her.

'You ridiculous person!' said Nuttie.  'Do you mean that you saw!'

'Of course I did; I've seen ever so long--'

'Nonsense!  That's impossible--'

'Impossible to owls and bats perhaps, but to nothing else not to see
that there was one sole and single hero in the world to you, and that
to him there was one single being in the world; and that being the
case---'

'But, Annaple, you can't guess what he has always been to me.'

'Oh! don't I know?--a sort of Archbishop of Canterbury and George
Heriot rolled into one.  So much the more reason, my dear, I don't
know when I've been so glad in my life than that your good times
should be coming.'

'They are come in knowing this!  It is only too wonderful,' said
Nuttie, as they stood together among the plants in the little
conservatory on the way upstairs.  'I always thought it insulting to
him when they teased me about him.'

'They did, did they?'

'My father, incited by poor Gregorio.  Oh, Annaple! don't let any one
guess till we know how my father will take it.  What is it, Ellen?'
as the nursery-maid appeared on the stairs.

'If you please, ma'am, Mrs. Poole would be glad if you are coming up
to the nursery.'

They both hastened up and nurse came out to meet them in the day
nursery, making a sign to Ellen to take her place by the cot, and
withholding the two ladies.  She made them come as far off as
possible, and then said that she was not at all satisfied about
Master Alwyn.  There had been the same drowsiness and disinclination
to speak, and when she had undressed and washed him, he had seemed
tender all over, and cried out and moaned as if her touch hurt him,
especially on one side where, she felt convinced, there was some
injury; but when she asked about it his eyes grew frightened and
bewildered, and he only cried in a feeble sort of way, as if sobs
gave him pain.

She had soothed him, and he had gone into his own bed with the same
gentle languid gladness, but had presently begun moaning, and
imploring in his sleep, wakening with screams and entreaties, 'Oh,
I'll do it!  I'll try!' and she thought him very feverish.  Would it
not be better that a doctor should see him?

Nurse was always an alarmist, and Nuttie could not help thinking that
to wake the child to see a stranger to-night would only add to his
terror and distress, while Annaple declared her entire belief that
though no doubt the poor little fellow had been cruelly knocked about
and bruised, a night's rest would probably restore his bright self,
and make all that was past only like a bad dream.  There was no
judging to-night, and sleep was wonderful reparation to those little
beings.

Then however the moans and murmurs began again, and now the awakening
cry.  They started forward, and as Nuttie came to the cot-side the
child threw himself into her bosom with, 'Sister!  Sister!  It is
sister!' but his eyes grew round with terror at sight of Annaple, and
clinging tightly to Nuttie he gasped, 'Send her away! don't let her
touch me!  Fan's not here!'

To tell him she was Cousin Annaple, Billy's mamma, had no effect; he
did not seem able to understand, and she could only retire--nurse
being thus convinced that to let him see another stranger to-night
would only do further harm.  Nuttie and nurse succeeded in reassuring
him that he was safe at home and with them, and in hushing him off
into what they hoped would be a quiet wholesome sleep in spite of the
hot sultry night, on which Annaple laid a good deal of the blame of
his restlessness and feverishness.

Nuttie only came down for a short time before the visitors went away;
and then she wrote a note to Dr. Brownlow, which Mark promised to
leave as he went to the city in the morning, Mr. Egremont, in his
present relief, pooh-poohing all fears, and backing up Annaple's
belief in the powers of 'tired nature's soft restorer'; but Mr.
Dutton looked grave and said that he had remarked the extreme
tenderness, but had hoped that much was due to his own inexperience
in handling little children.  The parting clasp of the hand had a
world of meaning in it, and Nuttie openly said that she hoped to tell
him after matins at St. Michael's how the boy was.  But she could not
be there.  When she went upstairs at night the half-delirious terrors
had returned, and there was another difficult soothing and comforting
before the child slept again.  Nurse fancied the unwonted presence
might disturb him, and insisted on her going to her own room.

When she returned in the morning it was to find that since daylight
he had been more quietly asleep; but there was a worn sunken look
about his face, and she could not be satisfied to leave him alone
while the nurses stirred about and breakfasted.

He awoke smiling and happy; he looked about and said gladly, 'Wyn at
home!  Wyn's own nursery,' but he did not want to get up; 'Wyn so
tired,' he said, speaking of himself in the baby form that he had for
several months discarded, but he said his pretty 'thank you,' and
took delight in breakfasting in his cot, though still in a subdued
way, and showing great reluctance to move or be touched.

Nuttie was sent for to report of him to his father, who would not
hear for a moment of anxiety, declaring that the boy would be quite
well if they let him alone, he only wanted rest, and insisting on
following out his intention of seeing a police superintendent to
demand whether the kidnapping rascals could not be prosecuted.

Neither by Nuttie nor nurse could much be extracted from the poor
little fellow himself about his adventures.  He could not bear to
think of them, and there was a mist of confusion over his mind,
partly from weakness, partly, they also thought, from the drugged
spirits with which he had been more than once dosed.  He dimly
remembered missing Gregorio in the park, and that he had tried to
find his way home alone, but some one, a big boy, he thought, had
said he would show him the way, took hold of his hand, dragged him,
he knew not where, into dreadful dirt and stench, and apparently had
silenced him with a blow before stripping him.  But it was all very
indistinct, he could not tell how Mother Bet got hold of him, and the
being dressed in the rags of a girl had somehow loosed his hold of
his own identity.  He did not seem at all certain that the poor
little dirty petticoated thing who had wakened in a horrible cellar,
or in a dark jolting van who had been dubbed Fan, who had been forced
by the stick to dance and twist and compelled to drink burning,
choking stuff, was the same with Alwyn in his sailor suit or in his
white cot.

It was Dr. Brownlow who at once detected that there had been much of
this dosing, and drew forth the fact.  It had probably been done
whenever it was expedient that he should be hidden, or unable to make
any appeal to outsiders.  Alwyn was quite himself by day, and showed
no unreasonable fear or shyness, but he begged not to be touched, and
though he tried to be good and manly, could not keep from cries and
screams when the doctor examined him.

Then it came out.  'It's where he kicked me.'

'Who?'

'That man--master, she said I must call him.  He kicked poor little
Fan with his great heavy big boots--'cause Fan would say Wyn's
prayers.'

'Who was Fan?' asked the puzzled doctor.

'Himself,' whispered Nuttie.  'Alas! himself!'

'Wyn was Fan,' said Alwyn.  'Fan's gone now!'

'And did the man kick poor little Fan,' repeated the doctor--'here?'

'Oh don't--don't!  It hurts so.  Master said he would have none of
that, and he kicked with his big boot.  Oh!  Fan couldn't dance one
bit after that.'

He could not tell how long ago this had been.  He seemed to have lost
all reckoning of days, and probably felt as if ages had past in Funny
Frank's van, but Dr. Brownlow thought the injury could not be above
two or three days old, and probably it accounted for there having
been no more obstructions put in the way of removing the child, since
he had ceased to be of use, and the discovery of the injury might
have brought the perpetrator into trouble.  Indeed, as it was, Mr.
Egremont caused the police to be written to, demanding the arrest of
the man and woman Brag, but they had already decamped, and were never
traced, which was decidedly a relief to those who dreaded all that a
prosecution would have involved.

And Dr. Brownlow became very grave over the injury.  He said it was a
surgical case, and he should like to have another opinion, enjoining
that the child should be kept in bed, and as quiet as possible, till
he could bring his friend in the afternoon, which was no difficult
matter, for Alwyn seemed to have no desire for anything but rest and
the sight of his friends and his treasures, which were laid beside
him to be gently handled and stroked but not played with.  Mothu and
Mithter Button were among the friends he craved for, but he showed no
desire to see Billy-boy, and it was thought best to keep that young
gentleman's rampant strength at a distance.

The chief difficulty was with his father, who declared they were all
croaking, and that the boy would be as well as ever to-morrow.  He
went and sat by the cot, and talked merrily of the pony that Alwyn
was to ride, and the yachting they would have in the summer; and the
little fellow smiled and was pleased, but went to sleep in the midst.
Then Mr. Egremont went out, taking Annaple with him, because Nuttie
would not go till the doctors' visit was over, though he declared
that they were certain not to come till long after her return from
the drive.  He actually went to the dealer's, and had pony after pony
paraded before the carriage, choosing a charming toy Shetland at
last, subject to its behaviour with the coachman's little boy, while
Annaple hopefully agreed with him that Alwyn would be on its back in
another week.

He still maintained his opinion, outwardly at least, when he was met
on his return by Nuttie with a pale, almost thunderstruck face.  Dr.
Brownlow had called her from trying to soothe away the fright and
suffering of the examination, to break to her that both he and his
colleague thought very seriously of the injury and its consequences,
and deemed it very doubtful whether the poor little fellow could be
pulled through.

Mr. Egremont was again angry, declared that she had misunderstood,
and made the worst of it; that Dr. Brownlow was a conceited young
ass; that his friend played into his hands; with other amenities of
the same kind, to which she listened with mingled irritation and pity
for his unreasonableness, and even at the sympathy which he found in
Annaple's hopeful nature.

The young mother never dreaded nor expected what she could not bear
to think possible, such as the death-warrant of that beautiful child,
while Nuttie's nature always expected the worst, and indeed had read
the doom in the doctor's eyes and voice rather than in his words.  So
Annaple backed Mr. Egremont up when he made his daughter write to
desire Dr. Brownlow to call in the first advice in London; and among
them they made so sure that this would be effective that they
actually raised Nuttie's hopes so as to buoy her through the feverish
early hours of the night when the pain was aggravated, the terrors
returned, the boy was tormented by his duality with Fan, and the past
miseries were acted over again.  Even nurse and sister did not
suffice, and Mithter Button had to be fetched by Mark before he could
feel quite secure that he was Alwyn and not Fan.  Indeed, in these
light-headed moments, a better notion was gained of what he must have
endured than in the day-time, when all seemed put aside or forgotten.
After a time he became capable of being soothed by hymns, though
still asking why his sister could not sing like that vision of his
mother which had comforted him in his previous miseries, and craving
for her return.  Then at last he fell quietly asleep, and Nuttie was
left with a few sustaining words and a pressure from Mr. Dutton's
hand.

Alas! the new consultation could only ratify the first opinion.  The
injury need not have been necessarily fatal, though dangerous to any
young child, and here it had been aggravated by previous ill-
treatment, and by the doses of spirits that had been forced down,
besides which, Alwyn was naturally delicate, and--though the doctors
would not say so to father or sister--there were hereditary
predispositions that gave him the less chance of battling through.

Yet Mr. Egremont concluded his purchase of the pony, and insisted
that Alwyn should be carried to the window to see it; and Alwyn's
smile was almost enough to break Nuttie's heart, but his head drooped
on nurse's shoulder, he hardly lifted his heavy eyelids, and begged
for 'by-by' again.  Even Annaple burst into tears at the sight, ran
out of the room with her sobs, and never augured recovery again,
though still she strove to cheer and while away the poor father's
piteous hours by making the most of every sign that the child was
happy and not suffering much.

That he would be viewed as a 'pale placid martyr' was his sister's
chief comfort.  His replies as to the manner of the hurt, as well as
his light-headed wanderings, had made it more and more evident that
the man Brag's brutality had been excited by his persisting in
kneeling down to say his prayers aloud--the only way he knew how to
say them.  Indeed there was a recurring anxiety night and morning to
kneel, which had to be reasoned away, even when he was too weak to
make the attempt, and was only appeased by 'Sister' kneeling by his
side, holding his hands, and repeating the little prayers with him.
It was of his own accord that he added: 'And forgive those people,
and make them good.'  Annaple burst into tears again and almost
scolded when she heard of it.  'Oh dear! oh dear! now I know he won't
get well!  I'm glad Billy isn't so horribly good!  Nuttie, Nuttie,
don't!  You know I don't mean it.  Only I just can't bear it.  He is
the sweetest little fellow in the world!  And oh! the cruelty of it.'

'Yes,' said Nuttie in her dreary calmness; 'he is too sweet and
lovely and beautiful and good to be anywhere but safe with mother.'

For it was more apparent that they could not keep him.  It did not
last long; there were a couple of piteous days of restless pain and
distress, and then came the more fatal lull and absence of suffering,
a drowsiness in which the little fellow sank gradually away, lying
with a strange calm beauty on his face, and smiling feebly when he
now and then lifted his eyes to rest them on sister or nurse.  His
father could not bear the sight.  It filled him more with angry
compassion than with the tender reverence and hushed awe with which
Ursula watched her darling slipping as it were from her hold.  So Mr.
Egremont wandered wretchedly about the lower rooms, while Mark and
Annaple tried their best for him through the long summer evening,
darkening into night.  By and by Alwyn lifted his hand, turned his
head, opened his lips, and whispered, 'Hark, sister, she is singing.'
The look of exceeding joy beamed more and more over the pinched
little face.  'She's come again,' he said; and once more, 'Come to
take Wyn to the dear Lord.'  After that there were very few more long
breaths before little Alwyn Egremont's spirit was gone to that unseen
world, and only the fair little frame left with that wondrous look of
delighted recognition on the face.





CHAPTER XXXVIII.
THE UMBRELLA MAN.




Little Alwyn was laid to rest beside his mother in a beautiful summer
noontide.  His father was not in a state to attend the funeral, and
was left under the care of Annaple, his own choice among those who
offered to stay and minister to him.  It was his own wish that his
daughter should be to the last with her little brother.  He had even
said to her that she had been a good sister, and his boy had been
very fond of her, and he would not keep her away on any account.

And, with a man's preference for a young and kindly woman, he chose
Annaple to be with him rather than Mr. Dutton, remembering likewise
that but for him the boy would have died in some workhouse, unknown
and unclaimed, or among the wretches who had caused his death.  So
Nuttie had the comfort of Mr. Dutton's going down with her, as well
as Mark, and poor broken-down nurse, but not a word referring to the
confession of that happy evening had passed between them during the
mournful fortnight which had since elapsed.

May Condamine and her husband had made all as fair and consoling as
they could.  There were white-robed children to bear the boy from the
churchyard gate, choristers sang hymns, the grave was lined with moss
and daisies, and white roses decked the little coffin and the mound.
There was as much of welcome and even of triumph as befitted the
innocent child, whose death had in it the element of testimony to the
truth.  And Nuttie felt it, or would feel it by and by, when her
spirit felt less as if some precious thing had been torn up by the
roots--to be safe and waiting for her elsewhere, indeed, but that did
not solace the yearning longing for the merry loving child; nor the
aching pity for the crushed blighted creature whom she had watched
suffering and dying.  It was far beyond her power as yet to acquiesce
in her aunt's consolation that it was happier for the child himself,
than if he was to grow up to temptation from without, and with an
unsound constitution, with dangerous hereditary proclivities.  She
could believe it in faith, nay, she had already experienced the
difficulties her father had thrown in her way of dealing with him,
she tried to be resigned, but the good sense of the Canoness was too
much for her.

It was a day of more haste than suited the ideal of such a time, for
Mr. Egremont could not be left for a night; so there was only time
for a luncheon, with little jerks of talk, and then for an hour spent
in short private interviews.  Mrs. Egremont obtained from poor Nurse
Poole all the details, and, moreover, her opinion of Mr. Mark's baby,
in whom, it having been born under her auspices, she took a special
interest.

Nuttie meantime was pacing the shady walk with her dear old friend
Miss Nugent, feeling it strange that her heart did not leap up at the
bare presence of one she loved so much, yet conscious of the soothing
of her sympathy.  And Mary, watching her all through, had been struck
with the increased sweetness and nobleness her countenance had
acquired during these years of discipline.  More of her mother's
expression had come than could have been thought possible in features
of such a different mould, formed for so much more strength and
energy.  They had not met since Nuttie had been summoned home to her
mother's deathbed, and their time was chiefly spent on reminiscences
alike of the old sorrow and the new; but, when the time for parting
was nearly come, Mary said affectionately, 'And you, my dear?'

'Oh, I am all right,' said Nuttie, and her eyes shone with a light
Mary did not at the moment understand; 'you need not be anxious for
me _now_.'

'I suppose that unhappy valet's death makes your task easier,' said
Mary.

'I think it will,' said Nuttie.  'Poor man!  He was--I can't help
saying it--the evil genius of the house.  Dear mother knew it,
struggled against him, and broke down in the struggle.  It seems so
strange that what she could not do has been done in such a manner,
and at such a price!  I wonder whether she knew it when she welcomed
her boy!'

'Her influence will aid you still,' said Mary, 'and you have Mr.
Dutton to help you too.  I was so glad to find he was so near you.'

'Oh, Mr. Dutton!' exclaimed Ursula, in a strange tone that sent a
thrill through Mary, though she knew not why; but at that moment they
were interrupted, very inopportunely, by Mr. Bulfinch, who could not
go away without asking Miss Egremont whether she thought her father
could see him on business if he came up to town the next day.  She
thought that such an interview would rouse her father and do him
good, advising him to call on the chance.

Mark's tete-a-tete had been with his sister May, to whom he had much
to tell of his wife and her gallant patience and energy, and how
curious it was that now the incubus that had weighed on his uncle's
household was removed, the prejudice had melted away, and he had
grown so fond of her that, next to Ursula, she was his best
comforter.

'I hope that will lead to more,' said May.

'I don't see how,' said Mark.  The more we rely only on a blessing on
our own exertions the better.'

'Even when Annaple works within an inch of her life?'

'Now that she is on a right tack about the baby, that will be easier.
Yes, May, I do feel sometimes that I have brought her down to
drudgery and narrowness and want of variety such as was never meant
for her, but she will never let me think so.  She says that it is
living in realities, and that it makes her happier than toiling after
society, or rather after the world, and I do believe it is true!  I'm
sure it is with me.'

'But such work as yours, Mark.'

'Nonsense, May; I enjoy it.  I did not when I was in the Greenleaf
firm, with an undeveloped sense that Goodenough was not to be
trusted, and we were drifting to the bad, yet too green to understand
or hinder it; but this I thoroughly like.  What does one want but
honest effective work, with some power of dealing with and helping
those good fellows, the hands, to see the right and help themselves?'

May sighed.  'And yet, now that poor child is gone, I feel all the
more how hard it is that you should be put out of the rights of your
name.'

'I never had any rights.  It was the bane of my life to be supposed
to have them.  Nothing but this could have made a man of me.'

'And don't you have regrets for your boy?'

'I don't think I have--provided we can give him an education--such as
I failed to make proper use of, or Annaple might be luxuriating at
Pera at this moment.'

'Well!' said May, pausing as she looked up the vista of trees at the
great house; 'I can't bear it to go out of the old name.'

'Names may be taken!'

'You don't mean that there's any chance of--Oh! not that horrid Mr.
Fane?'

'Certainly not.'

'Oh!' as a trim black figure appeared walking down the open space.
'That man!'

'I am not authorised to tell any one so, May.'

'Yes, I understand.  The wretch, he is taking stock of the place
already!'

'For shame.  May, no one has deserved so well of them.'

'I don't care, he got you into that horrid concern.'

'And got me out of it, and found my work for me.  I tell you, May, it
is the best thing that could possibly happen to your parish, or the
estate, or my poor uncle either!  And you will soon come to a better
mind. '

'Never, while he is to get into your place!  Turn back before he
comes within hailing distance. '

Before Mark could do anything towards bringing his sister to a better
mind he was seized on by his stepmother to propound a scheme she had
hatched, namely that, as a mutual benefit, Nurse Poole should be
allowed the consolation of bringing her chief comforter, his little
daughter, down with her on the visit Mrs. Egremont had invited her to
pay at Redcastle.  He was very grateful, though doubtful whether
Annaple would accept the offer, for she was missing her children's
company, though they were only at Springfield House, and she had been
with them part of every day.  And, sad as this month had been, it had
been such a rest from sheer physical toil that she had gained almost
as much by it as the little one.

There was a general assembly and coffee-drinking in the verandah,--
Mr. Condamine, Blanche, and her two young sisters were all there,--
and May had to be duly civil to Mr. Dutton, though he came back with
some water-lilies that he had fished out of the lake for Nuttie, and
she thought it taking possession.  Then the Londoners set forth for
the station, and there Mark, having perhaps had a hint from his wife,
saw Nuttie and Mr. Dutton safely bestowed by Broadbent in an empty
carriage, and then discovered a desire to smoke, and left them to
themselves.

They had not been alone together for more than a second since the
evening of Alwyn's return, and there was a great shyness between
them, which lasted till the first station was past without any
irruption of newcomers.  Nothing had been said but a few comments on
the arrangements and the attendants, but probably both were trying to
begin to speak, and at last it was Ursula who crossed over so that
her face could not be seen, and said in an odd tone--

'Mr. Dutton--'

'Yes,' and he turned, instantly on the alert.

'Did you mean it--what I thought you meant that evening?'

'Can you doubt it?' he said earnestly.  'But even then I was
surprised into the avowal, and I would have held it back if possible,
if I had guessed what was going to happen.'

'Ah! but then I should not have had that drop of comfort through it
all,' and she laid hold of his hand, which returned the pressure
strongly, but he sedulously guarded both words and tone as he said:

'Listen, Ursula, before you speak again.  How dear you must always be
to me, I cannot tell you, but when I then spoke, it was with the
sense that on every account, I should meet with strong opposition
from your father and family.  And now your position is altered, so
that the unsuitability is doubled.  I am not a young man, remember,
and my thoughts must be for you above all, I want you to consider
whether, in the present state of affairs, you would not do better to
look on what then passed as unsaid, or only as the ebullition of
gratitude towards your old friend.  Let me go abroad, and give you
full opportunity for--for some fresh beginning likely to be fitter
for you--'

'Mr. Dutton, how can you say such horrid things?  As if a dukedom
would make any difference.'

'Yes,' he said, turning towards her.  'If it is only the old-friend
feeling, then it is better dropped, but if your heart is in it,
child, then we go on, come what may.  It is due to you.'

She raised her face towards him now, and he gave a grave kiss to her
forehead.  She drew a long breath, and said after a little pause,
'And now I have something to say.  One does think of such things even
in these sad times, and you can help me.  I am so glad it is you,
because I know you will, and be rejoiced to do so.  You know when
Mark found us out first, dear mother and I always felt that it was a
great pity he should not have the estate he had been brought up to
expect.  I believe dear mother thought it would have been the right
thing for me to marry him, but I always did mean to give it back to
him, even when I didn't like him.  Well, then, you know it all seemed
settled otherwise, but now, it is so lucky you spoke to me while that
dear little fellow was with us, because now you will help me to
persuade my father that it is the only satisfactory thing to do to
let it go in the male line to Mark and his Willy.'

'I see!  I see!' said Mr. Dutton eagerly.  'It would be an infinite
relief if it could be carried out.'

'I believe my father would like it,' said Nuttie.  'He cares for the
name; and now no one prevents it; he is fond of Mark, and still more
of Annaple!  And you!  Oh, Mr. Dutton, if he will only take it in the
right way, I think you will make me able to do what it grieved dear
mother never to have brought about for my poor father.'

'My whole self is yours to aid you,' he said.  'You know of course
that I could not ask you to detach yourself from one to whom you are
so necessary.  If he will permit us, we will watch over him together
as doing her work.'

'Thank you,' was all Nuttie's lips could utter, though her hand said
much more.

And before they reached London they had arranged something of a plan
of action for propitiating Mr. Egremont, and bringing the future
prospects to be available so as to save Annaple from being worked to
death in the meantime.





CHAPTER XXXIX.
ANNAPLE'S AMBITION FALLEN.




'Well, how did you get on, Annaple?'

'Oh! very well, poor old man, on the whole, though it made one pity
him doubly that he chose to make as if he forgot everything, and you
were all gone on a picnic, taking me out for a long drive in the
afternoon--where we were least likely to meet any one--that I will
say for him.'

'Forgetting is not the best for him.'

'As if he could forget!  But he was very nice and friendly, and put
on his best, most courteous self.  I think he looks on me rather as a
protector from the solemn Mr. Edsall.'

'Surely Edsall treats him well.  He was excellently recommended.  You
know I saw his master's daughter.'

'Oh! only _too_ well.  He takes the management of him as if he were
three years old, or a lunatic.  He simply _will_ not be offended any
more than if he had to do with a baby.'

'What should offend him?'

'That Mr. Egremont greatly resents being allowed nothing but by what
Edsall calls medical sanction.  He is too blind, you know, to venture
to pour out anything for himself, and besides, Edsall has all the
drugs under lock and key, and is coolness itself about any amount of
objurgations, such as I fancy go on sometimes.'

'Do you think he will stand it?'

'Who?  Your uncle?  Yes, I think he will.  This man really makes him
more comfortable than poor Gregorio did.'

'Yes; Nuttie said she was sure that there was neglect, if not
bullying latterly.  But he must miss Gregorio terribly.  They had
been together for at least five-and-twenty or thirty years, and had
plenty of gossip together.'

'Whereas the present paternal despotism and appalling dignity and
gravity will keep him more dependent on his right congeners.'

'If they are of the right sort, that's all.'

'He has been making me read him a whole heap of letters; indeed, as
you know, I have been doing that all along, when he could not get
Nuttie.  There were some from Mr. Bulfinch.  Do you know that bailiff
of his must be next door to a swindler?'

'Bulfinch is coming up to see him to-morrow.'

'And, Mark, do you know, he has been putting out feelers as if to
discover whether we would do--what he asked us to do five years ago.'

'Would you?'

'If it were not for the children, and--and sometimes the extreme
pinch, I should say it was more like _life_ to work yourself up as a
City man,' said Annaple.  'If you were the Squire, with all his
opportunities, it would be a different thing, but there's no outlet
there, and I have often admired the wisdom of the Apocryphal saying,
"Make not thyself an underling to a foolish man."'

'Well, it is lucky you think so, Nannie, for though Dutton is
certainly not a foolish man, he will not want an underling.  And what
do you say to my mother's proposal of having poor Poole to stay at
Redcastle, and borrowing baby to comfort her till she goes out again.

'I hate it,' said Annaple energetically.  'It is very horrid, but it
is awfully good of the Canoness; and I suppose we shall have to let
it come to pass, and miss all that most charming time of babyhood
which is coming.  But most likely it will quite set the little woman
up, and be a real kindness to poor Poole.'

'If we could only keep her for good.'

'Yes, and then our children would not be half so much our own.  I do
want to be away with them in our own quarters.  I wonder when Nuttie
can spare us, but I should like to see her through the great crisis
with her father.'

That crisis was to involve more than Annaple in the least expected.
Nuttie found that the momentous confession could not possibly take
place before the interview with Mr. Bulfinch, at which her presence
was needed to help her father with his papers.  The principal concern
was to show the full enormity of the bailiff, and decide upon the
steps to be taken, the solicitor being anxious for a prosecution,
while a certain tenderness for poor Gregorio's memory, or perhaps for
the exposure of his own carelessness, made Mr. Egremont reluctant.
There was also a proposal, brought forward with much diffidence from
Mr. Condamine's mother, to rent Bridgefield House, but on this, as
well as respecting a successor to the bailiff, Mr. Egremont was to
give his answer the next day, when Mr. Bulfinch would call again.

Nuttie was thankful for the business that had filled up the hour
after luncheon, when Alwyn used to play in the drawing-room and
delight his father; but she was feeling desperate to have the crisis
over, and resolved to speak when she went out driving with him.  It
was he, however, who began.  'I sounded Mark's wife yesterday,
Ursula.  She is a nice little thing enough, and a good wife in her
way.'

'A very good wife.'

'Except when she persuaded him to turn up his nose at the agency.
D'ye think he would take it now, since he has tasted the sweets of
his umbrella business?' then, as Nuttie paused, taken by surprise;
'Five hundred a year and the Home Farm would be better than, what is
it, a hundred and fifty and a floor over a warehouse!  I don't like
to see old Will's son wearing himself out there, and the lad is a
good honest lad, with business habits, who would do justice to you
after I am gone.'

'Father,' said Nuttie, trembling with the effort, 'I want you to do
something better than that.  I want you to let Mark take the agency
with a view to himself--not me.  Let him be as he would have been if
he had never hunted us up at Micklethwayte, and put me in his place.'

'Eh!' said Mr. Egremont.  'It is not entailed--worse luck; if it had
been, I should not have been bound to dance attendance at the heels
of such an old sinner as the General.'

'No, but it ought to go to the heir male, and keep in the old name.
Think--there have been Egremonts at Bridgefield for four hundred
years!'

'Very pretty talk, but how will it be with you, Miss.  We shall have
Fane, and I don't know how many more, coming after the scent of
Bridgefield now,' he said with a heavy sigh, ending with a bitter
'Hang them all!'

'And welcome,' said Nuttie, answering the thought rather than the
words.  'Father, I wanted to tell you--'

'You don't mean that any one has been after you at such a time as
this!' he cried.

'It was before--I mean it was the evening when we were all so glad,
before we began to be afraid.'

'The umbrella man!  By Jove!'

'And now,' went on Nuttie, in spite of the explosion, 'he would
hardly have ventured to go on with it but for this--I mean,' as her
father gave a little laugh of his unpleasant sort, 'he said it would
be the greatest possible relief, and make it all right for the
property to go to the heir male.'

'Hein!  You think so, do you?  See how it will be when I come to talk
to him!  A shrewd fellow like that who got out of the Micklethwayte
concern just in time.  Catch him giving up a place like that, though
he may humbug you.'

'Then you will see him, father?'

'If you turn him in on me, I can't help it.  Bless me! umbrellas
everywhere!  And here you mean to turn me over to the mercies of that
solemn idiot, Edsall.  I should have been better off with poor
Gregorio.'

'No, father; Mr. Dutton would not take me from you.  We would both
try all we could to make you comfortable.'

'Convert the old reprobate?  Is that his dodge?'

'Don't, father,' for the sneering tone returned.

'Come now,' he added in a much more fatherly manner, for her voice
had struck him.  'You don't mean that a well-looking girl like you,
who could have her pick of all the swells in town, can really be
smitten with a priggish old retired umbrella-monger like that.  Why,
he might be your father.'

'He has been getting younger ever since I knew him,' said Nuttie.

'Well.  He plays as good a game of whist as any man in England,'
muttered Mr. Egremont, leaving his daughter in actual doubt whether
he meant this as a recommendation, or as expressing a distrust of
him, as one likely to play his cards to the best advantage.  She had
to remain in doubt, for they overtook Clarence Fane, who came and
spoke to them in a very friendly and solicitous manner, and showed
himself willing to accept a lift in the carriage.  Mr. Egremont,
willing to escape from perplexities as well as to endeavour to drive
away if possible the oppression of his grief, invited him in, and he
had some gossip to impart, which at first seemed to amuse the hearer
after this time of seclusion, but the sick and sore heart soon
wearied of it, and long before the drive was over, Mr. Egremont was
as much bored as his daughter had been from the first.

When Mr. Fane got out, he paused a moment to hold Ursula's hand in a
tender manner, while he told her that he had not ventured to intrude
(he had left a card of inquiry every day), but that if ever he could
be of the least use in amusing Mr. Egremont, he was at her service,
and would give up any engagement.

'Hein! my fine fellow!  No doubt you would!' said Mr. Egremont, when
his daughter had uttered her cold thanks, and they had driven on.  'I
see your little game, but it is soon to begin it.  We may as well let
them know that she is booked before the running begins.'

It was a remarkable intimation of his acceptance of her engagement,
but Ursula was contented to take it as such, and be thankful.

Mr. Dutton had his interview as soon as Mr. Egremont had rested after
his drive, and the result was satisfactory.

No doubt much was due to the Egremont indolence and want of energy,
which always preferred to let things take their course.  And now that
Gregorio was no longer present to amuse, and take all trouble off his
hands, Mr. Egremont could hardly have borne to part with his
daughter; and, despite of umbrellas and religion, was not sorry to
have a perfectly trustworthy son-in-law in the house, able to play at
cards with him, manage his household, and obviate all trouble about
suitors for the heiress.  Moreover, his better feelings were stirred
by gratitude on his poor little son's account, and he knew very well
that a more brilliant match for his daughter would not have secured
for his old age the care and attention he could rely upon here.  He
was obliged likewise to believe in the disinterestedness, which
disclaimed all desire for the estate, as involving cares and duties
for which there had been no training; and he was actually glad to
keep the property in the direct line.  The old liking for Mark, and
sense of the hardship of his exclusion, revived, strengthened now by
regard for Annaple; together with the present relief from care
obtained by making him manager of the estate.

When once brought to a point, Mr. Egremont was always sudden and
impetuous, chiefly for the sake of having it over and being
unmolested and at rest again.  So that very evening, while Nuttie
only ventured on sharing with Annaple the glad tidings that Mr.
Dutton was accepted, and in his marvellous goodness, undertook to
make his home with her father.  Mark was almost stunned by the news,
confirmed to him by Mr. Dutton as well as his uncle, that he was to
be acknowledged as heir of Bridgefield Egremont, and in the meantime
manage the estate with an income suitable to an oldest son.

Presently he came upstairs by himself, and beckoned to Nuttie, rather
to the alarm of his wife.

'Ursula,' he said, and took both her hands, 'I cannot have you do
this for me.'

'Can't you, Mark?  You can't prevent it, you see.  And don't you know
it is the beginning of all my happiness?'

'But indeed, I cannot feel it right.  It is a strained sense of
justice.  Come and tell her so, Nannie.'

'What?' said Annaple coming forward.

They both paused a moment, then Nuttie said, 'Only that the estate
ought to go in the male line.'

'Oh, is that all?' said Annaple, 'I was afraid Mr. Egremont had a
fit!'

'Ah!  Don't you see what it means,' said Mark.  'They want it to be
as if there were an entail--to begin treating me as an eldest son at
once.  It is Ursula's doing, putting herself out of the succession.'

'I always hated being an heiress,' said Nuttie.

'It would be more dreadful than ever now.  Annaple, do be sensible!
Don't you see it is the only right thing to do?'

'Billy!' was the one word Annaple said.

'Yes, Billy and Jenny and all,' said Nuttie, 'before you've all died
of your horrid place--Oh! you haven't heard that part of it.  Of
course Mark will have to go down to Bridgefield and look after the
place, and live like a gentleman.'

'Eight hundred a year,' murmured Mark, 'and the house at the Home
Farm.'

'Oh! dear,' gasped Annaple, 'I wanted you to be Lord Mayor, and now
you'll only be a stupid old country squire.  No, no, Nuttie, it's--
it's--it's the sort of thing that one only laughs at because
otherwise one would have to do the other thing!'

And she gripped Nuttie tight round the waist, and laid her head on
her shoulder, shaking with a few little sobs, which might be one
thing or the other.

'It will save her youth, perhaps her life,' whispered Mark, lifting
Nuttie's hand to his lips for a moment, and then vanishing, while
Annaple recovered enough to say, 'I'm tougher than that, sir.  But
little Jenny!  Oh, Nuttie, I believe it has come in time.  I've known
all along that one straw more might break the camel's back.  We've
been very happy, but I am glad it is over before Mark got worn down
before his time.  Grinding is very wholesome, but one may have too
much; and I haven't Mark's scruples, Nuttie dear, for I do think the
place is more in his line than yours or Mr. Dutton's.'

'Yes,' said Ursula, 'you see he was always happy there, and I never
was.'

The next thing was for Mr. Dutton and Ursula to keep Mr. Egremont up
to the point of making his long deferred will; nor did they find this
so difficult as they expected, for having once made up his mind, he
wished to have the matter concluded, and he gave his instructions to
Bulfinch the next day.  Of course Mark had to give full notice to his
employers; but the allowance was to begin at once, so that Annaple
only went back to the warehouse to pack up, since she was to occupy
No. 5, while Mr. Egremont and his daughter were going under Mr.
Dutton's escort to the baths in Dauphine, an entirely new resort,
free from the associations he dreaded, for he could not yet bear the
sight of little Willy--the rival 'boy of Egremont.'  But the will was
safely signed before he went, to the great relief of Nuttie, who,
according to the experience of fiction, could hardly believe his life
safe till what she called justice had been done.

After all Mr. Egremont became so dependent on Mr. Dutton, during this
journey, that he did not like the separation at its close, and
pressed on the marriage even sooner than either of the lovers felt
quite reverent towards the recent sorrow.  He insisted on Bulfinch
having the settlements ready for them on their return, and only let
them wait long enough to keep their residence, before there was a
very quiet wedding in their parish church, with the cousins for
bridesmaids.  Then Mark and Annaple took care of Mr. Egremont for the
fortnight while Mr. Dutton showed his wife his old haunts in France,
returning to Springfield House, where there was plenty of room for
Mr. Egremont to make his home with them.

Said Annaple to Miss Nugent, 'I never saw Nuttie so youthful and
bright.  She is more like a girl than I ever saw her since the
first.'

'Yes,' said Mary, 'she has some one to rest on now.'

Mr. Egremont lived between three and four years, more contented and
peaceful than he had ever been, though frequently suffering, and
sometimes giving way to temper and impatience.  But Mr. Dutton
understood how to manage on these occasions, and without giving up
his own extensive usefulness, could give him such care, attention,
and amusement as beguiled his discomforts, and made his daughter's
task an easier one.

How far the sluggish enfeebled nature was capable of a touch of
better things, or whether his low spirits were repentance, no one
could judge.  At any rate sneers had ended, and when he was laid
beside his wife and boy at Bridgefield, Ursula stood by the grave
with a far more tender and hopeful feeling than she could have
thought possible when he had rent her away from her old home.
She looked up at her husband and said, 'Is not her work done?'

THE END.







This etext was produced by Alfred J. Drake, Ph.D.






PLATO AND PLATONISM (1910)
WALTER HORATIO PATER



CONTENTS

1. Plato and the Doctrine of Motion: 5-26
2. Plato and the Doctrine of Rest: 27-50
3. Plato and the Doctrine of Number: 51-74
4. Plato and Socrates: 75-98
5. Plato and the Sophists: 99-123
6. The Genius of Plato: 124-149
7. The Doctrine of Plato--
I. The Theory of Ideas: 150-173
II. Dialectic: 174-196
8. Lacedaemon: 197-234
9. The Republic: 235-266
10. Plato's Aesthetics: 267-283, end



CHAPTER 1: PLATO AND THE DOCTRINE OF MOTION

[5] WITH the world of intellectual production, as with that of organic
generation, nature makes no sudden starts.  Natura nihil facit per
saltum; and in the history of philosophy there are no absolute
beginnings.  Fix where we may the origin of this or that doctrine or
idea, the doctrine of "reminiscence," for instance, or of "the
perpetual flux," the theory of "induction," or the philosophic view of
things generally, the specialist will still be able to find us some
earlier anticipation of that doctrine, that mental tendency.  The most
elementary act of mental analysis takes time to do; the most
rudimentary sort of speculative knowledge, abstractions so simple that
we can hardly conceive the human mind without them, must grow, and with
difficulty.  Philosophy itself, mental and moral, has its preparation,
its forethoughts, in the poetry that preceded it.  A powerful
generalisation thrown into some salient phrase, such as [6] that of
Heraclitus--"Panta rhei,"+ all things fleet away--may startle a
particular age by its novelty, but takes possession only because all
along its root was somewhere among the natural though but half-
developed instincts of the human mind itself.

Plato has seemed to many to have been scarcely less than the creator of
philosophy; and it is an immense advance he makes, from the crude or
turbid beginnings of scientific enquiry with the Ionians or the
Eleatics, to that wide range of perfectly finished philosophical
literature.  His encyclopaedic view of the whole domain of knowledge is
more than a mere step in a progress.  Nothing that went before it, for
compass and power and charm, had been really comparable to it.  Plato's
achievement may well seem an absolutely fresh thing in the morning of
the mind's history.  Yet in truth the world Plato had entered into was
already almost weary of philosophical debate, bewildered by the
oppositions of sects, the claims of rival schools.  Language and the
processes of thought were already become sophisticated, the very air he
breathed sickly with off-cast speculative atoms.

In the Timaeus, dealing with the origin of the universe he figures less
as the author of a new theory, than as already an eclectic critic of
older ones, himself somewhat perplexed by theory and counter-theory.
And as we find there a [7] sort of storehouse of all physical theories,
so in reading the Parmenides we might think that all metaphysical
questions whatever had already passed through the mind of Plato.  Some
of the results of patient earlier thinkers, even then dead and gone,
are of the structure of his philosophy.  They are everywhere in it, not
as the stray carved corner of some older edifice, to be found here or
there amid the new, but rather like minute relics of earlier organic
life in the very stone he builds with.  The central and most intimate
principles of his teaching challenge us to go back beyond them, not
merely to his own immediate, somewhat enigmatic master--to Socrates,
who survives chiefly in his pages--but to various precedent schools of
speculative thought, in Greece, in Ionia, in Italy; beyond these into
that age of poetry, in which the first efforts of philosophic
apprehension had hardly understood themselves; beyond that unconscious
philosophy, again, to certain constitutional tendencies, persuasions,
forecasts of the intellect itself, such as had given birth, it would
seem, to thoughts akin to Plato's in the older civilisations of India
and of Egypt, as they still exercise their authority over ourselves.

The thoughts of Plato, like the language he has to use (we find it so
again, in turn, with those predecessors of his, when we pass from him
to them) are covered with the traces of previous labour and have had
their earlier [8] proprietors.  If at times we become aware in reading
him of certain anticipations of modern knowledge, we are also quite
obviously among the relics of an older, a poetic or half-visionary
world.  It is hardly an exaggeration to say that in Plato, in spite of
his wonderful savour of literary freshness, there is nothing absolutely
new: or rather, as in many other very original products of human
genius, the seemingly new is old also, a palimpsest, a tapestry of
which the actual threads have served before, or like the animal frame
itself, every particle of which has already lived and died many times
over.  Nothing but the life-giving principle of cohesion is new; the
new perspective, the resultant complexion, the expressiveness which
familiar thoughts attain by novel juxtaposition.  In other words, the
form is new.  But then, in the creation of philosophical literature, as
in all other products of art, form, in the full signification of that
word, is everything, and the mere matter is nothing.

There are three different ways in which the criticism of philosophic,
of all speculative opinion whatever, may be conducted.  The doctrines
of Plato's Republic, for instance, may be regarded as so much truth or
falsehood, to be accepted or rejected as such by the student of to-day.
That is the dogmatic method of criticism; judging every product of
human thought, however alien [9] or distant from one's self, by its
congruity with the assumptions of Bacon or Spinoza, of Mill or Hegel,
according to the mental preference of the particular critic.  There is,
secondly, the more generous, eclectic or syncretic method, which aims
at a selection from contending schools of the various grains of truth
dispersed among them.  It is the method which has prevailed in periods
of large reading but with little inceptive force of their own, like
that of the Alexandrian Neo-Platonism in the third century, or the Neo-
Platonism of Florence in the fifteenth.  Its natural defect is in the
tendency to misrepresent the true character of the doctrine it
professes to explain, that it may harmonise thus the better with the
other elements of a pre-conceived system.

Dogmatic and eclectic criticism alike have in our own century, under
the influence of Hegel and his predominant theory of the ever-changing
"Time-spirit" or Zeit-geist, given way to a third method of criticism,
the historic method, which bids us replace the doctrine, or the system,
we are busy with, or such an ancient monument of philosophic thought as
The Republic, as far as possible in the group of conditions,
intellectual, social, material, amid which it was actually produced, if
we would really understand it.  That ages have their genius as well as
the individual; that in every age there is a peculiar ensemble of
conditions which determines [10] a common character in every product of
that age, in business and art, in fashion and speculation, in religion
and manners, in men's very faces; that nothing man has projected from
himself is really intelligible except at its own date, and from its
proper point of view in the never-resting "secular process"; the
solidarity of philosophy, of the intellectual life, with common or
general history; that what it behoves the student of philosophic
systems to cultivate is the "historic sense": by force of these
convictions many a normal, or at first sight abnormal, phase of
speculation has found a reasonable meaning for us.  As the strangely
twisted pine-tree, which would be a freak of nature on an English lawn,
is seen, if we replace it, in thought, amid the contending forces of
the Alpine torrent that actually shaped its growth, to have been the
creature of necessity, of the logic of certain facts; so, beliefs the
most fantastic, the "communism" of Plato, for instance, have their
natural propriety when duly correlated with those facts, those
conditions round about them, of which they are in truth a part.

In the intellectual as in the organic world the given product, its
normal or abnormal characteristics, are determined, as people say, by
the "environment."  The business of the young scholar therefore, in
reading Plato, is not to take his side in a controversy, to adopt or
refute Plato's opinions, to modify, or make apology for, [11] what may
seem erratic or impossible in him; still less, to furnish himself with
arguments on behalf of some theory or conviction of his own.  His duty
is rather to follow intelligently, but with strict indifference, the
mental process there, as he might witness a game of skill; better
still, as in reading Hamlet or The Divine Comedy, so in reading The
Republic, to watch, for its dramatic interest, the spectacle of a
powerful, of a sovereign intellect, translating itself, amid a complex
group of conditions which can never in the nature of things occur
again, at once pliant and resistant to them, into a great literary
monument.  To put Plato into his natural place, as a result from
antecedent and contemporary movements of Greek speculation, of Greek
life generally: such is the proper aim of the historic, that is to say,
of the really critical study of him.

At the threshold, then, of The Republic of Plato, the historic spirit
impresses upon us the fact that some of its leading thoughts are partly
derivative from earlier thinkers, of whom we happen to possess
independent information.  From that brilliant and busy, yet so
unconcerned press of early Greek life, one here another there stands
aside to make the initial act of conscious philosophic reflexion.  It
is done with something of the simplicity, the immediate and visible
effectiveness, of the visible world in action all around.  Among
Plato's many intellectual [12] predecessors, on whom in recent years
much attention has been bestowed by a host of commentators after the
mind of Hegel, three, whose ideas, whose words even, we really find in
the very texture of Plato's work, emerge distinctly in close connexion
with The Republic: Pythagoras, the dim, half-legendary founder of the
philosophy of number and music; Parmenides, "My father Parmenides," the
centre of the school of Elea; Heraclitus, thirdly, author of the
doctrine of "the Perpetual Flux": three teachers, it must be admitted
after all, of whom what knowledge we have is to the utmost degree
fragmentary and vague.  But then, one way of giving that knowledge
greater definiteness is by noting their direct and actual influence in
Plato's writings.

Heraclitus, a writer of philosophy in prose, yet of a philosophy which
was half poetic figure, half generalised fact, in style crabbed and
obscure, but stimulant, invasive, not to be forgotten--he too might be
thought, as a writer of prose, one of the "fathers" of Plato.  His
influence, however, on Plato, though himself a Heraclitean in early
life, was by way of antagonism or reaction; Plato's stand against any
philosophy of motion becoming, as we say, something of a "fixed idea"
with him.  Heraclitus of Ephesus (what Ephesus must have been just then
is denoted by the fact that it was one of the twelve cities of the
Ionian League) died about forty years before [13] Plato was born.  Here
then at Ephesus, the much frequented centre of the religious life of
Ionia, itself so lately emancipated from its tyrants, Heraclitus, of
ancient hereditary rank, an aristocrat by birth and temper, amid all
the bustle of still undiscredited Greek democracy, had reflected, not
to his peace of mind, on the mutable character of political as well as
of physical existence; perhaps, early as it was, on the mutability of
intellectual systems also, that modes of thought and practice had
already been in and out of fashion.  Empires certainly had lived and
died around; and in Ephesus as elsewhere, the privileged class had gone
to the wall.  In this era of unrestrained youthfulness, of Greek
youthfulness, one of the haughtiest of that class, as being also of
nature's aristocracy, and a man of powerful intellectual gifts,
Heraclitus, asserts the native liberty of thought at all events;
becomes, we might truly say, sickly with "the pale cast" of his
philosophical questioning.  Amid the irreflective actors in that
rapidly moving show, so entirely immersed in it superficial as it is
that they have no feeling of themselves, he becomes self-conscious.  He
reflects; and his reflexion has the characteristic melancholy of youth
when it is forced suddenly to bethink itself, and for a moment feels
already old, feels the temperature of the world about it sensibly
colder.  Its very ingenuousness, its sincerity, will make the utterance
of what comes [14] to mind just then somewhat shrill or overemphatic.

Yet Heraclitus, thus superbly turning aside from the vulgar to think,
so early in the impetuous spring-tide of Greek history, does but
reflect after all the aspect of what actually surrounds him, when he
cries out--his philosophy was no matter of formal treatise or system,
but of harsh, protesting cries--Panta chrei kai ouden menei.+  All
things give way: nothing remaineth.  There had been enquirers before
him of another sort, purely physical enquirers, whose bold,
contradictory, seemingly impious guesses how and of what primary
elements the world of visible things, the sun, the stars, the brutes,
their own souls and bodies, had been composed, were themselves a part
of the bold enterprise of that romantic age; a series of intellectual
adventures, of a piece with its adventures in unknown lands or upon the
sea.  The resultant intellectual chaos expressed the very spirit of
gifted and sanguine but insubordinate youth (remember, that the word
neots,+ youth, came to mean rashness, insolence!) questioning,
deciding, rejecting, on mere rags and tatters of evidence, unbent to
discipline, unmethodical, irresponsible.  Those opinions too, coming
and going, those conjectures as to what under-lay the sensible world,
were themselves but fluid elements on the changing surface of
existence.

[15] Surface, we say; but was there really anything beneath it?  That
was what to the majority of his hearers, his readers, Heraclitus, with
an eye perhaps on practice, seemed to deny.  Perpetual motion, alike in
things and in men's thoughts about them,--the sad, self-conscious,
philosophy of Heraclitus, like one, knowing beyond his years, in this
barely adolescent world which he is so eager to instruct, makes no
pretence to be able to restrain that.  Was not the very essence of
thought itself also such perpetual motion? a baffling transition from
the dead past, alive one moment since, to a present, itself deceased in
turn ere we can say, It is here?  A keen analyst of the facts of nature
and mind, a master presumably of all the knowledge that then there was,
a vigorous definer of thoughts, he does but refer the superficial
movement of all persons and things around him to deeper and still more
masterful currents of universal change, stealthily withdrawing the
apparently solid earth itself from beneath one's feet.  The principle
of disintegration, the incoherency of fire or flood (for Heraclitus
these are but very lively instances of movements, subtler yet more
wasteful still) are inherent in the primary elements alike of matter
and of the soul.  Legei pou Hrakleitos, says Socrates in the Cratylus,
hoti panta chrei kai ouden menei.+  But the principle of lapse, of
waste, was, in fact, in one's self.  "No one has ever passed [16] twice
over the same stream."  Nay, the passenger himself is without identity.
Upon the same stream at the same moment we do, and do not, embark: for
we are, and are not: eimen te kai ouk eimen.+  And this rapid change, if
it did not make all knowledge impossible, made it wholly relative, of a
kind, that is to say, valueless in the judgment of Plato.  Man, the
individual, at this particular vanishing-point of time and place,
becomes "the measure of all things."

     To know after what manner (says Socrates, after discussing the
     question in what proportion names, fleeting names, contribute
     to our knowledge of things) to know after what manner we must be
     taught, or discover for ourselves, the things that really are
     (ta onta)+ is perhaps beyond the measure of your powers and mine.
     We must even content ourselves with the admission of this, that
     not from their names, but much rather themselves from themselves,
     they must be learned and looked for. . . . For consider, Cratylus,
     a point I oft-times dream on--whether or no we may affirm that
     what is beautiful and good in itself, and whatever is, respectively,
     in itself, is something?

     Cratylus.  To me at least, Socrates, it seems to be something.

     Socrates.  Let us consider, then, that 'in-itself'; not whether
     a face, or anything of that kind, is beautiful, and whether all
     these things seem to flow like water.  But, what is beautiful in
     itself--may we say?--has not this the qualities that define it,
     always?

     Cratylus.  It must be so.

     Socrates.  Can we then, if it is ever passing out below, predicate
     about it; first, that it is that; next, that it has this or that
     quality; or must it not be that, even as we speak, it should
     straightway become some other thing, and go out under on its way,
     and be no longer as it is?  Now, how could that which is never in
     the same state be a thing at all? . . .

     [17] Socrates.  Nor, in truth, could it be an object of knowledge
     to any one; for, even as he who shall know comes upon it, it would
     become another thing with other qualities; so that it would be no
     longer matter of knowledge what sort of a thing it is, or in what
     condition.  Now, no form of knowing, methinks, has knowledge of
     that which it knows to be no-how.

     Cratylus.  It is as you say.

     Socrates.  But if, Cratylus, all things change sides, and nothing
     stays, it is not fitting to say that there is any knowing at
     all. . . . And the consequence of this argument would be, that
     there is neither any one to know, nor anything to be known.  If,
     on the other hand, there be always that which knows, and that
     which is known; and if the Beautiful is, and the Good is, and
     each one of those things that really are, is, then, to my thinking,
     those things in no way resemble that moving stream of which we are
     now speaking.  Whether, then, these matters be thus, or in that
     other way as the followers of Heraclitus affirm and many besides,
     I fear may be no easy thing to search out.  But certainly it is
     not like a sensible man, committing one's self, and one's own soul,
     to the rule of names, to serve them, and, with faith in names and
     those who imposed them, as if one knew something thereby, to
     maintain (damaging thus the character of that which is, and our
     own) that there is no sound ring in any one of them, but that all,
     like earthen pots, let water.  Cratylus, 439.+

Yet from certain fragments in which the Logos is already named we may
understand that there had been another side to the doctrine of
Heraclitus; an attempt on his part, after all, to reduce that world of
chaotic mutation to cosmos, to the unity of a reasonable order, by the
search for and the notation, if there be such, of an antiphonal rhythm,
or logic, which, proceeding uniformly from movement to movement, as in
some intricate musical theme, might link together in one those
contending, infinitely diverse [18] impulses.  It was an act of
recognition, even on the part of a philosophy of the inconsecutive, the
incoherent, the insane, of that Wisdom which, "reacheth from end to
end, sweetly and strongly ordering all things."  But if the "weeping
philosopher," the first of the pessimists, finds the ground of his
melancholy in the sense of universal change, still more must he weep at
the dulness of men's ears to that continuous strain of melody
throughout it.  In truth, what was sympathetic with the hour and the
scene in the Heraclitean doctrine, was the boldly aggressive, the
paradoxical and negative tendency there, in natural collusion, as it
was, with the destructiveness of undisciplined youth; that sense of
rapid dissolution, which, according to one's temperament and one's luck
in things, might extinguish, or kindle all the more eagerly, an
interest in the mere phenomena of existence, of one's so hasty passage
through the world.

The theory of the perpetual flux was indeed an apprehension of which
the full scope was only to be realised by a later age, in alliance with
a larger knowledge of the natural world, a closer observation of the
phenomena of mind, than was possible, even for Heraclitus, at that
early day.  So, the seeds of almost all scientific ideas might seem to
have been dimly enfolded in the mind of antiquity; but fecundated,
admitted to their full working prerogative, one by one, in after ages,
by good favour of the special [19] intellectual conditions belonging to
a particular generation, which, on a sudden, finds itself preoccupied
by a formula, not so much new, as renovated by new application.

It is in this way that the most modern metaphysical, and the most
modern empirical philosophies alike have illustrated emphatically,
justified, expanded, the divination (so we may make bold to call it
under the new light now thrown upon it) of the ancient theorist of
Ephesus.  The entire modern theory of "development," in all its various
phases, proved or unprovable,--what is it but old Heracliteanism awake
once more in a new world, and grown to full proportions?

Panta chrei, panta rhei+--It is the burden of Hegel on the one hand, to
whom nature, and art, and polity, and philosophy, aye, and religion
too, each in its long historic series, are but so many conscious
movements in the secular process of the eternal mind; and on the other
hand of Darwin and Darwinism, for which "type" itself properly is not
but is only always becoming.  The bold paradox of Heraclitus is, in
effect, repeated on all sides, as the vital persuasion just now of a
cautiously reasoned experience, and, in illustration of the very law of
change which it asserts, may itself presently be superseded as a
commonplace.  Think of all that subtly disguised movement, latens
processus, Bacon calls it (again as if by a kind of anticipation) which
[20] modern research has detected, measured, hopes to reduce to minuter
or ally to still larger currents, in what had seemed most substantial
to the naked eye, the inattentive mind.  To the "observation and
experiment" of the physical enquirer of to-day, the eye and the sun it
lives by reveal themselves, after all, as Heraclitus had declared
(scarcely serious, he seemed to those around him) as literally in
constant extinction and renewal; the sun only going out more gradually
than the human eye; the system meanwhile, of which it is the centre, in
ceaseless movement nowhither.  Our terrestrial planet is in constant
increase by meteoric dust, moving to it through endless time out of
infinite space.  The Alps drift down the rivers into the plains, as
still loftier mountains found their level there ages ago.  The granite
kernel of the earth, it is said, is ever changing in its very
substance, its molecular constitution, by the passage through it of
electric currents.  And the Darwinian theory--that "species," the
identifying forms of animal and vegetable life, immutable though they
seem now, as of old in the Garden of Eden, are fashioned by slow
development, while perhaps millions of years go by: well! every month
is adding to its evidence.  Nay, the idea of development (that, too, a
thing of growth, developed in the progress of reflexion) is at last
invading one by one, as the secret of their explanation, all the
products of mind, the very [21] mind itself, the abstract reason; our
certainty, for instance, that two and two make four.  Gradually we have
come to think, or to feel, that primary certitude.  Political
constitutions, again, as we now see so clearly, are "not made," cannot
be made, but "grow."  Races, laws, arts, have their origins and end,
are themselves ripples only on the great river of organic life; and
language is changing on our very lips.

In Plato's day, the Heraclitean flux, so deep down in nature itself--
the flood, the fire--seemed to have laid hold on man, on the social and
moral world, dissolving or disintegrating opinion, first principles,
faith, establishing amorphism, so to call it, there also.  All along
indeed the genius, the good gifts of Greece to the world had had much
to do with the mobility of its temperament.  Only, when Plato came into
potent contact with his countrymen (Pericles, Phidias, Socrates being
now gone) in politics, in literature and art, in men's characters, the
defect naturally incident to that fine quality had come to have
unchecked sway.  From the lifeless background of an unprogressive
world--Egypt, Syria, frozen Scythia--a world in which the unconscious
social aggregate had been everything, the conscious individual, his
capacity and rights, almost nothing, the Greek had stepped forth, like
the young prince in the fable, to set things going.  To the philosophic
eye however, [22] about the time when the history of Thucydides leaves
off, they might seem to need a regulator, ere the very wheels wore
themselves out.

Mobility!  We do not think that a necessarily undesirable condition of
life, of mind, of the physical world about us.  'Tis the dead things,
we may remind ourselves, that after all are most entirely at rest, and
might reasonably hold that motion (vicious, fallacious, infectious
motion, as Plato inclines to think) covers all that is best worth
being.  And as for philosophy--mobility, versatility, the habit of
thought that can most adequately follow the subtle movement of things,
that, surely, were the secret of wisdom, of the true knowledge of them.
It means susceptibility, sympathetic intelligence, capacity, in short.
It was the spirit of God that moved, moves still, in every form of real
power, everywhere.  Yet to Plato motion becomes the token of unreality
in things, of falsity in our thoughts about them.  It is just this
principle of mobility, in itself so welcome to all of us, that, with
all his contriving care for the future, he desires to withstand.
Everywhere he displays himself as an advocate of the immutable.  The
Republic is a proposal to establish it indefectibly in a very precisely
regulated, a very exclusive community, which shall be a refuge for
elect souls from an ill-made world.

That four powerful influences made for the political unity of Greece
was pointed out by [23] Grote: common blood, common language, a common
religious centre, the great games in which all alike communicated.  He
adds that they failed to make the Greeks one people.  Panhellenism was
realised for the first time, and then but imperfectly, by Alexander the
Great.  The centrifugal tendency had ever been too much for the
centripetal tendency in them, the progressive elements for the element
of order.  Their boundless impatience, that passion for novelty noted
in them by Saint Paul, had been a matter of radical character.  Their
varied natural gifts did but concentrate themselves now and then to an
effective centre, that they might be dissipated again, towards every
side, in daring adventure alike of action and of thought.  Variety and
novelty of experience, further quickened by a consciousness trained to
an equally nimble power of movement, individualism, the capacities, the
claim, of the individual, forced into their utmost play by a ready
sense and dexterous appliance of opportunity,--herein, certainly, lay
at least one half of their vocation in history.  The material
conformation of Greece, a land of islands and peninsulas, with a range
of sea-coast immense as compared with its area, and broken up by
repellent lines of mountain this way and that, nursing jealously a
little township of three or four thousand souls into an independent
type of its own, conspired to the same effect.  Independence, local and
personal,--it was the Greek ideal!

[24] Yet of one side only of that ideal, as we may see, of the still
half-Asiatic rather than the full Hellenic ideal, of the Ionian ideal
as conceived by the Athenian people in particular, people of the coast
who have the roaming thoughts of sailors, ever ready to float away
anywhither amid their walls of wood.  And for many of its admirers
certainly the whole Greek people has been a people of the sea-coast.
In Lacedaemon, however, as Plato and others thought, hostile,
inaccessible in its mountain hollow where it had no need of any walls
at all, there were resources for that discipline and order which
constitute the other ingredient in a true Hellenism, the saving Dorian
soul in it.  Right away thither, to that solemn old mountain village,
now mistress of Greece, he looks often, in depicting the Perfect City,
the ideal state.  Perfection, in every case, as we may conceive, is
attainable only through a certain combination of opposites, Attic
aleipha with the Doric oxos;+ and in the Athens of Plato's day, as he
saw with acute prevision, those centrifugal forces had come to be
ruinously in excess of the centripetal.  Its rapid, empiric,
constitutional changes, its restless development of political
experiment, the subdivisions of party there, the dominance of faction,
as we see it, steadily increasing, breeding on itself, in the pages of
Thucydides, justify Plato's long-drawn paradox that it is easier to
wrestle against many than against one.  The soul, [25] moreover, the
inward polity of the individual, was the theatre of a similar
dissolution; and truly stability of character had never been a
prominent feature in Greek life.  Think of the end of Pausanias failing
in his patriotism, of Themistocles, of Miltiades, the saviours of
Greece, actually selling the country they had so dearly bought to its
old enemies.

It is something in this way that, for Plato, motion and the philosophy
of motion identify themselves with the vicious tendency in things and
thought.  Change is the irresistible law of our being, says the
Philosophy of Motion.  Change, he protests, through the power of a true
philosophy, shall not be the law of our being; and it is curious to
note the way in which, consciously or unconsciously, that philosophic
purpose shapes his treatment, even in minute detail, of education, of
art, of daily life, his very vocabulary, in which such pleasant or
innocent words, as "manifold," "embroidered," "changeful," become the
synonyms of what is evil.  He, first, notes something like a fixed
cycle of political change; but conceives it (being change) as, from the
very first, backward towards decadence.  The ideal city, again, will
not be an art-less place: it is by irresistible influence of art, that
he means to shape men anew; by a severely monotonous art however, such
art as shall speak to youth, all day long, from year to year, almost
exclusively, of the loins girded about.

[26] Stimulus, or correction,--one hardly knows which to ask for first,
as more salutary for our own slumbersome, yet so self-willed, northern
temperaments.  Perhaps all genuine fire, even the Heraclitean fire, has
a power for both.  "Athens," says Dante,

     --Athens, aye and Sparta's state
     That were in policy so great,
        And framed the laws of old,
        How small a place they hold,
     How poor their art of noble living
     Shews by thy delicate contriving,
        Where what October spun
        November sees outrun!
     Think in the time thou canst recall,
     Laws, coinage, customs, places all,
        How thou hast rearranged,
        How oft thy members changed!
     Couldst thou but see thyself aright,
     And turn thy vision to the light,
        Thy likeness thou would'st find
        In some sick man reclined;
     On couch of down though he be pressed,
     He seeks and finds not any rest,
        But turns and turns again,
        To ease him of his pain.
     Purgatory: Canto VI: Shadwell's Translation.

Now what Dante says to Florence, contrasting it with Athens and Sparta
as he conceives them, Plato might have said to Athens, in contrast with
Sparta, with Lacedaemon, at least as he conceived it.

NOTES

6. +Transliteration: Panta rhei.  Translation: "All things give way [or
flow]."  Plato, Cratylus 402 A, cites Heraclitus' fragment more fully--
Legei pou Hrakleitos hoti panta chrei kai ouden menei, or
"Heracleitus says somewhere that all things give way, and nothing
remains."  Pater cites the same fragment in The Renaissance,
Conclusion.  The verb rhe means "flow," while the verb chore means
"give way."

14. +Transliteration: Panta chrei kai ouden menei.  Pater's
translation: "All things give way: nothing remaineth."  Plato, Cratylus
402A.

14. +Transliteration: neots.  Liddell and Scott definition: "youth:
also ... youthful spirit, rashness."

15. +Transliteration: Legei pou Hrakleitos hoti panta chrei kai ouden
menei.  Pater's translation in The Renaissance, Conclusion:
"[Herakleitos says somewhere that] All things give way; nothing
remains."  Plato, Cratylus 402a.

16. +Transliteration: eimen te kai ouk eimen.  E-text editor's
translation: "We are and are not."  Heraclitus, Fragments.  Fragmenta
Philosophorum Graecorum, Vol. 1, 326.  Ed. F.W.A. Mullach.  Darmstadt:
Scientia Verlag Aalen, 1967 (reprint of the Paris, 1860 edition).  In
the same fragment, Heraclitus is described as having said, Potamois
tois autois embainomen te kai ouk embainomen, which translates as "we
go into the same river, and [yet] we do not go into the same river."
Plato cites that thought in the passage alluded to above, Cratylus
402a.

16. +Transliteration: ta onta.  Definition: "the things that are."

17. +Rather than retain the original's very small print for such
quotations, I have indented them throughout Plato and Platonism.  As
Pater indicates, the source of his quotation is the Cratylus, 439.

19.  +Transliteration: Panta chrei, panta rhei.  See above, notes for
pages 6, 14, 15, and 16.  The verb rhe means "flow," while the verb
chore means  "give way."

24. +Transliteration: aleipha . . . oxos.  Liddell and Scott definition:
"unguent, oil . . . sour wine, vinegar."



CHAPTER 2: PLATO AND THE DOCTRINE OF REST

[27] OVER against that world of flux,

     Where nothing is, but all things seem,

it is the vocation of Plato to set up a standard of unchangeable
reality, which in its highest theoretic development becomes the world
of "eternal and immutable ideas," indefectible outlines of thought, yet
also the veritable things of experience: the perfect Justice, for
instance, which if even the gods mistake it for perfect Injustice is
not moved out of its place; the Beauty which is the same, yesterday,
to-day and for ever.  In such ideas or ideals, "eternal" as
participating in the essential character of the facts they represent to
us, we come in contact, as he supposes, with the insoluble, immovable
granite beneath and amid the wasting torrent of mere phenomena.  And in
thus ruling the deliberate aim of his philosophy to be a survey of
things sub specie eternitatis, the reception of a kind of absolute and
independent knowledge [28] (independent, that is, of time and position,
the accidents and peculiar point of view of the receiver) Plato is
consciously under the influence of another great master of the Pre-
Socratic thought, Parmenides, the centre of the School of Elea.

About half a century before the birth of Plato, Socrates being then in
all the impressibility of early manhood, Parmenides, according to the
witness of Plato himself--Parmenides at the age of sixty-five--had
visited Athens at the great festival of the Panathenaea, in company
with Zeno the Eleatic, a characteristic specimen of Greek cleverness,
of the acute understanding, personally very attractive.  Though forty
years old, the reputation this Zeno now enjoyed seems to have been very
much the achievement of his youth, and came of a mastery of the sort of
paradox youth always delights in.  It may be said that no one has ever
really answered him; the difficulties with which he played so nicely
being really connected with those "antinomies," or contradictions, or
inconsistencies, of our thoughts, which more than two thousand years
afterwards Kant noted as actually inherent in the mind itself--a
certain constitutional weakness or limitation there, in dealing by way
of cold-blooded reflexion with the direct presentations of its
experience.  The  "Eleatic Palamedes," Plato calls him, "whose
dialectic art causes one and the same thing to appear both like and
[29] unlike, one and many, at rest and in motion."  Ah! you hear
already the sort of words that seem sometimes so barren and
unprofitable even in Plato.

It is from extant fragments of a work of his, not a poem, but,
appropriately, To Syngramma,+ The Prose, of Zeno, that such knowledge as
we have of his doctrine, independently of the Parmenides of Plato, is
derived.  The active principle of that doctrine then lies in the
acuteness with which he unfolds the contradictions which make against
the very conceivability of the fundamental phenomena of sense, in so
far as those phenomena are supposed to be really existent independently
of ourselves.  The truth of experience, of a sensible experience, he
seems to protest:--Why! sensible experience as such is logically
inconceivable.  He proved it, or thought, or professed to think, he
proved it, in the phenomenon which covers all the most vivid, the
seemingly irresistible facts, of such experience.  Motion was indeed,
as the Heracliteans said, everywhere: was the most incisive of all
facts in the realm of supposed sensible fact.  Think of the prow of the
trireme cleaving the water.  For a moment Zeno himself might have
seemed but a follower of Heraclitus.  He goes beyond him.  All is
motion: he admits.--Yes: only, motion is (I can show it!) a nonsensical
term.  Follow it, or rather stay by it, and it transforms itself,
agreeably enough for the [30] curious observer, into rest.  Motion must
be motion in space, of course; from point to point in it,--and again,
more closely, from point to point within such interval; and so on,
infinitely; 'tis rest there: perpetual motion is perpetual rest:--the
hurricane, the falling tower, the deadly arrow from the bow at whose
coming you shake there so wretchedly, Zeno's own rapid word-fence--all
alike at rest, to the restful eye of the pure reason!  The tortoise,
the creature that moves most slowly, cannot be overtaken by Achilles,
the swiftest of us all; or at least you can give no rational
explanation how it comes to be overtaken.  Zeno had an armoury of such
enigmas.  Can a bushel of corn falling make a noise if a single grain
makes none?  Again, that motion should cease, we find inconceivable:
but can you conceive how it should so much as begin? at what point
precisely, in the moving body?  Ubiquitous, tyrannous, irresistible, as
it may seem, motion, with the whole so dazzling world it covers, is--
nothing!

Himself so striking an instance of mobile humour in his exposure of the
unreality of all movement, Zeno might be taken so far only for a
master, or a slave, of paradox; such paradox indeed as is from the very
first inherent in every philosophy which (like that of Plato himself,
accepting even Zeno as one of its institutors) opposes the seen to the
unseen as [31] falsehood to truth.  It was the beginning of
scholasticism; and the philosophic mind will perhaps never be quite in
health, quite sane or natural, again.  The objective, unconscious,
pleasantly sensuous mind of the Greek, becoming a man, as he thinks,
and putting away childish thoughts, is come with Zeno one step towards
Aristotle, towards Aquinas, or shall we say into the rude scholasticism
of the pedantic Middle Age?  And we must have our regrets.  There is
always something lost in growing up.

The wholesome scepticism of Hume or Mill for instance, the scepticism
of the modern world, beset now with insane speculative figments, has
been an appeal from the preconceptions of the understanding to the
authority of the senses.  With the Greeks, whose metaphysic business
was then still all to do, the sceptical action of the mind lay rather
in the direction of an appeal from the affirmations of sense to the
authority of newly-awakened reason.  Just then all those real and
verbal difficulties which haunt perversely the human mind always, all
those unprofitable queries which hang about the notions of matter and
time and space, their divisibility and the like, seemed to be stirring
together, under the utterance of this brilliant, phenomenally clever,
perhaps insolent, young man, his master's favourite.  To the work of
that grave master, nevertheless--of Parmenides--a very different person
certainly from his rattling disciple, Zeno's [32] seemingly so
fantastic doctrine was sincerely in service.  By its destructive
criticism, its dissipation of the very conceivability of the central
and most incisive of sensible phenomena, it was a real support to
Parmenides in his assertion of the nullity of all that is but
phenomenal, leaving open and unoccupied space (emptiness, we might say)
to that which really is.  That which is, so purely, or absolutely, that
it is nothing at all to our mixed powers of apprehension:--Parmenides
and the Eleatic School were much occupied with the determination of the
thoughts, or of the mere phrases and words, that belong to that.

Motion discredited, motion gone, all was gone that belonged to an
outward and concrete experience, thus securing exclusive validity to
the sort of knowledge, if knowledge it is to be called, which
corresponds to the  "Pure Being," that after all is only definable as
"Pure Nothing," that colourless, formless, impalpable existence (ousia
achrmatos, aschmatistos, anaphs)+ to use the words of Plato, for whom
Parmenides became a sort of inspired voice.  Note at times, in reading
him, in the closing pages of the fifth book of The Republic for
instance, the strange accumulation of terms derivative from the
abstract verb "To be."  As some more modern metaphysicians have done,
even Plato seems to pack such terms together almost by rote.  Certainly
something of paradox may always be felt even in his [33] exposition of
"Being," or perhaps a kind of paralysis of speech--aphasia.+

Parmenides himself had borrowed the thought from another, though he
made it his own.  Plato, in The Republic, as a critic of Homer, by way
of fitting Homer the better for the use of the schoolboys of the ideal
city, is ready to sacrifice much of that graceful polytheism in which
the Greeks anticipated the dulia of saints and angels in the catholic
church.  He does this to the advantage of a very abstract, and as it
may seem disinterested, certainly an uninteresting, notion of deity,
which is in truth:--well! one of the dry sticks of mere "natural
theology," as it is called.  In this he was but following the first,
the original, founder of the Eleatic School, Xenophanes, who in a
somewhat scornful spirit had urged on men's attention that, in their
prayers and sacrifices to the gods, in all their various thoughts and
statements, graceful or hideous, about them, they had only all along
with much fallacy been making gods after their own likeness, as horse
or dog too, if perchance it cast a glance towards heaven, would after
the same manner project thither the likeness of horse or dog: that to
think of deity you must think of it as neither here nor there, then nor
now; you must away with all limitations of time and space and matter,
nay, with the very conditions, the limitation, of thought itself;
apparently not [34] observing that to think of it in this way was in
reality not to think of it at all:--That in short Being so pure as this
is pure Nothing.

In opposition then to the anthropomorphic religious poetry of Homer,
Xenophanes elaborates the notion, or rather the abstract or purely
verbal definition, of that which really is (to on)+ as inconclusive of
all time, and space, and mode; yet so that all which can be identified
concretely with mode and space and time is but antithetic to it, as
finite to infinite, seeming to being, contingent to necessary, the
temporal, in a word, to the eternal.  Once for all, in harshest
dualism, the only true yet so barren existence is opposed to the world
of phenomena--of colour and form and sound and imagination and love, of
empirical knowledge.  Objects, real objects, as we know, grow in
reality towards us in proportion as we define their various qualities.
And yet, from another point of view, definition, qualification, is a
negative process: it is as if each added quality took from the object
we are defining one or more potential qualities.  The more definite
things become as objects of sensible or other empirical apprehension,
the more, it might be said from the logician's point of view, have we
denied about them.  It might seem that their increasing reality as
objects of sense was in direct proportion to the increase of their
distance from that perfect Being which is everywhere and at all times
in every possible mode of being.  A [35] thing visibly white is found
as one approaches it to be also smooth to the touch; and this added
quality, says the formal logician, does but deprive it of all other
possible modes of texture; Omnis determinatio est negatio.+  Vain
puerilities! you may exclaim:--with justice.  Yet such are the
considerations which await the mind that suffers itself to dwell awhile
on the abstract formula to which the "rational theology" of Xenophanes
leads him.  It involved the assertion of an absolute difference between
the original and all that is or can be derived from it; that the former
annuls, or is exclusive of, the latter, which has in truth no real or
legitimate standing-ground as matter of knowledge; that, in opposite
yet equally unanswerable senses, at both ends of experience there is--
nothing!  Of the most concrete object, as of the most abstract, it
might be said, that it more properly is not than is.

From Xenophanes, as a critic of the polytheism of the Greek religious
poets, that most abstract and arid of formulae, Pure Being, closed in
indifferently on every side upon itself, and suspended in the midst of
nothing, like a hard transparent crystal ball, as he says; "The
Absolute"; "The One"; passed to his fellow-citizen Parmenides, seeking,
doubtless in the true spirit of philosophy, for the centre of the
universe, of his own experience of it, for some common measure of the
experience of all men.  To enforce a reasonable unity and order, to
impress some larger likeness of reason, [36] as one knows it in one's
self, upon the chaotic infinitude of the impressions that reach us from
every side, is what all philosophy as such proposes.  Kosmos;+ order;
reasonable, delightful, order; is a word that became very dear, as we
know, to the Greek soul, to what was perhaps most essentially Greek in
it, to the Dorian element there.  Apollo, the Dorian god, was but its
visible consecration.  It was what, under his blessing, art
superinduced upon the rough stone, the yielding clay, the jarring
metallic strings, the common speech of every day.  Philosophy, in its
turn, with enlarging purpose, would project a similar light of
intelligence upon the at first sight somewhat unmeaning world we find
actually around us:--project it; or rather discover it, as being really
pre-existent there, if one were happy enough to get one's self into the
right point of view.  To certain fortunate minds the efficacious moment
of insight would come, when, with delightful adaptation of means to
ends, of the parts to the whole, the entire scene about one,
bewildering, unsympathetic, unreasonable, on a superficial view, would
put on, for them at least, kosmiots,+ that so welcome expression of
fitness, which it is the business of the fine arts to convey into
material things, of the art of discipline to enforce upon the lives of
men.  The primitive Ionian philosophers had found, or thought they
found, such a principle (arch)+ in the force of some omnipresent
physical element, [37] air, water, fire; or in some common law, motion,
attraction, repulsion; as Plato would find it in an eternally appointed
hierarchy of genus and species; as the science of our day embraces it
(perhaps after all only in fancy) in the expansion of a large body of
observed facts into some all-comprehensive hypothesis, such as
"evolution."

For Parmenides, at his early day, himself, as some remnants of his work
in that direction bear witness, an acute and curious observer of the
concrete and sensible phenomena of nature, that principle of reasonable
unity seemed attainable only by a virtual negation, by the
obliteration, of all such phenomena.  When we have learned as exactly
as we can all the curious processes at work in our own bodies or souls,
in the stars, in or under the earth, their very definiteness, their
limitation, will but make them the more antagonistic to that which
alone really is, because it is always and everywhere itself, identical
exclusively with itself.  Phenomena!--by the force of such arguments as
Zeno's, the instructed would make a clean sweep of them, for the
establishment, in the resultant void, of the "One," with which it is
impossible (para panta legomena)+ in spite of common language, and of
what seems common sense, for the "Many"--the hills and cities of
Greece, you and me, Parmenides himself, really to co-exist at all.
"Parmenides," says one, "had stumbled upon [38] the modern thesis that
thought and being are the same."

Something like this--this impossibly abstract doctrine--is what Plato's
"father in philosophy" had had to proclaim, in the midst of the busy,
brilliant, already complicated life of the recently founded colonial
town of Elea.  It was like the revelation to Israel in the midst of
picturesque idolatries, "The Lord thy God is one Lord";+ only that here
it made no claim to touch the affections, or even to warm the
imagination.  Israel's Greek cousin was to undergo a harder, a more
distant and repressive discipline in those matters, to which a
peculiarly austere moral beauty, at once self-reliant and submissive,
the aesthetic expression of which has a peculiar, an irresistible
charm, would in due time correspond.

It was in difficult hexameter verse, in a poem which from himself or
from others had received the title--Peri physes+ (De Natur Rerum) that
Parmenides set forth his ideas.  From the writings of Clement of
Alexandria, and other later writers large in quotation, diligent modern
scholarship has collected fragments of it, which afford sufficient
independent evidence of his manner of thought, and supplement
conveniently Plato's, of course highly subjective, presentment in his
Parmenides of what had so deeply influenced him.-- [39] "Now come!"
(this fragment of Parmenides is in Proclus, who happened to quote it in
commenting on the Timaeus of Plato)  "Come! do you listen, and take
home what I shall tell you: what are the two paths of search after
right understanding.  The one,

     h men hops estin te kai hs ouk esti m einai?+

"that what is, is; and that what is not, is not"; or, in the Latin of
scholasticism, here inaugurated by Parmenides, esse ens: non esse non
ens--

     peithous esti keleuthos; althei gar opdei?+

"this is the path to persuasion, for truth goes along with it.  The
other--that what is, is not; and by consequence that what is not, is:--
I tell you that is the way which goes counter to persuasion:

     tn d toi phraz panapeithea emmen atarpon? oute gar an gnois
     to ge m eon ou gar ephikton?+

That which is not, never could you know: there is no way of getting at
that; nor could you explain it to another; for Thought and Being are
identical."--Famous utterance, yet of so dubious omen!--To gar auto
voein estin te kai einai +---idem est enim cogitare et esse.  "It is one
to me," he proceeds, "at what point I begin; for thither I shall come
back over again: tothi gar palin hixomai authis."+

Yes, truly! again and again, in an empty circle, we may say; and
certainly, with those [40] dry and difficult words in our ears, may
think for a moment that philosophic reflexion has already done that
delightfully superficial Greek world an ill turn, troubling so early
its ingenuous soul; that the European mind, as was said, will never be
quite sane again.  It has been put on a quest (vain quest it may prove
to be) after a kind of knowledge perhaps not properly attainable.
Hereafter, in every age, some will be found to start afresh
quixotically, through what wastes of words! in search of that true
Substance, the One, the Absolute, which to the majority of acute people
is after all but zero, and a mere algebraic symbol for nothingness.  In
themselves, by the way, such search may bring out fine intellectual
qualities; and thus, in turn, be of service to those who can profit by
the spectacle of an enthusiasm not meant for them; must nevertheless be
admitted to have had all along something of disease about it; as indeed
to Plato himself the philosophic instinct as such is a form of "mania."

An infectious mania, it might seem,--that strange passion for
nonentity, to which the Greek was so oddly liable, to which the human
mind generally might be thought to have been constitutionally
predisposed; for the doctrine of  "The One" had come to the surface
before in old Indian dreams of self-annihilation, which had been
revived, in the second century after Christ, in the ecstasies
(ecstasies of the pure [41] spirit, leaving the body behind it)
recommended by the Neo-Platonists; and again, in the Middle Age, as a
finer shade of Christian experience, in the mystic doctrines of Eckhart
and Tauler concerning that union with God which can only be attained by
the literal negation of self, by a kind of moral suicide; of which
something also may be found, under the cowl of the monk, in the clear,
cold, inaccessible, impossible heights of the book of the Imitation.
It presents itself once more, now altogether beyond Christian
influence, in the hard and ambitious intellectualism of Spinoza; a
doctrine of pure repellent substance--substance "in vacuo," to be lost
in which, however, would be the proper consummation of the transitory
individual life.  Spinoza's own absolutely colourless existence was a
practical comment upon it.  Descartes; Malebranche, under the monk's
cowl again; Leibnitz; Berkeley with his theory of the "Vision of all
things in God"; do but present variations on the same theme through the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries.  By one and all it is assumed, in
the words of Plato, that to be colourless, formless, impalpable is the
note of the superior grade of knowledge and existence, evanescing
steadily, as one ascends towards that perfect (perhaps not quite
attainable) condition of either, which in truth can only be attained by
the suppression of all the rule and outline of one's own actual
experience and thought.

[42] Something like that certainly there had been already in the
doctrine of Parmenides, to whom Plato was so willing to go to school.
And in the nineteenth century, as on the one hand the philosophy of
motion, of the "perpetual flux," receives its share of verification
from that theory of development with which in various forms all modern
science is prepossessed; so, on the other hand, the philosophy of rest
also, of the perpetual lethargy, the Parmenidean assertion of the
exclusive reign of "The One," receives an unlooked-for testimony from
the modern physical philosopher, hinting that the phenomena he deals
with--matter, organism, consciousness--began in a state of
indeterminate, abstract indifference, with a single uneasy start in a
sort of eternal sleep, a ripple on the dead, level surface.  Increasing
indeed for a while in radius and depth, under the force of mechanic
law, the world of motion and life is however destined, by force of its
own friction, to be restored sooner or later to equilibrium; nay, is
already gone back some noticeable degrees (how desirably!) to the
primeval indifference, as may be understood by those who can reckon the
time it will take for our worn-out planet, surviving all the fret of
the humanity it housed for a while, to be drawn into the sun.

But it is of Plato after all we should be thinking; of the
comparatively temperate thoughts, the axiomata media, he was able to
derive, by a [43] sort of compromise, from the impossible paradox of
his ancient master.  What was it, among things inevitably manifest on
his pages as we read him, that Plato borrowed and kept from the Eleatic
School!

Two essential judgments of his philosophy: The opposition of what is,
to what appears; and the parallel opposition of knowledge to opinion;
(heteron epistms doxa; eph' heter ara heteron ti dynamen hekatera
autn pephyke? ouk enchrei gnston kai doxaston tauton einai?)+ and
thirdly, to illustrate that opposition, the figurative use, so
impressed on thought and speech by Plato that it has come to seem
hardly a figure of speech at all but appropriate philosophic language,
of the opposition of light to darkness.--

     Well, then (Socrates is made to say in the fifth book of The
     Republic) if what is, is the object of knowledge, would not
     something other than what is, be the object of opinion?

     Yes! something else.

     Does opinion then opine what is not; or is it impossible to have
     even opinion concerning what is not?  Consider! does not he who
     has opinion direct his opinion upon something? or is it
     impossible, again, to have an opinion, yet an opinion about
     nothing?

     Impossible!

     But he who has an opinion has opinion at least about something;
     hasn't he?  Yet after all what is not, is not a thing; but would
     most properly be denominated nothing.

     Certainly.

     Now to what is not, we assigned of necessity ignorance: to what
     is, knowledge.

     Rightly: he said.

     [44] Neither what is, then, nor what is not, is the object of
     opinion.

     No!

     Opinion therefore would be neither ignorance nor knowledge.

     It seems not.

     Is it, then, beyond these; going beyond knowledge in clearness,
     beyond ignorance in obscurity?

     Neither the one, nor the other.

     But, I asked, opinion seems to you (doesn't it?) to be a darker
     thing than knowledge, yet lighter than ignorance.

     Very much so; he answered.

     Does it lie within those two?

     Yes.

     Opinion, then, would be midway, between these two conditions?

     Undoubtedly so.

     Now didn't we say in what went before that if anything became
     apparent such that it is, and is not, at the same time, a thing
     of that kind would lie between that which is in unmixed clearness,
     and that which wholly is not; and that there would be, in regard
     to that, neither knowledge nor ignorance; but, again, a condition
     revealing itself between ignorance and knowledge?

     Rightly.

     And now, between these two, what we call 'opinion' has in fact
     revealed itself.

     Clearly so.

     It would remain for us therefore, as it seems, to find that which
     partakes of both--both of Being and Not-being, and which could
     rightly be called by neither term distinctly; in order that, if it
     appear, we may in justice determine it to be the object of opinion;
     assigning the extremes to the extremes, the intermediate to what
     comes between them.

     Or is it not thus?

     Thus it is.

     These points then being assumed, let him tell me! let him speak
     and give his answer--that excellent person, who on the one hand
     thinks there is no Beauty itself, nor any idea of Beauty itself,
     ever in the same condition in regard to the same things (aei kata
     tauta hsauts echousan)+ yet, on the other hand, holds [45] that
     there are the many beautiful objects:--that lover of sight (ho
     philotheamn)+ who can by no means bear it if any one says that
     the beautiful is one; the just also; and the rest, after the same
     way.  For good Sir! we shall say, pray tell us, is there any one
     of these many beautiful things which will not appear ugly (under
     certain conditions) of the many just or pious actions which will
     not seem unjust or impious?

     No! he answered.  Rather it must be that they shall seem, in a
     manner, both beautiful and ugly; and all the rest you ask of.

     Well!  The many double things:--Do they seem to be at all less
     half than double?

     Not at all.

     And great, in truth, and little, and light, and heavy--will they
     at all more truly be called by these names which we may give them,
     than by the opposite names?

     No! he said; but each of them will always hold of both.

     Every several instance of 'The Many,' then--is it, more truly
     than it is not, that which one may affirm it to be?

     It is like people at supper-parties he said (very Attic supper-
     parties!) playing on words, and the children's riddle about the
     eunuch and his fling round the bat--with what, and on what, the
     riddle says he hit it; for these things also seem to set both
     ways, and it is not possible, fixedly, to conceive any one of
     them either to be, or not to be; neither both, nor the one, nor
     the other.

     Have you anything then you can do with them; or anywhere you can
     place them with fairer effect than in that position between being
     and the being not?  For presumably they will not appear more
     obscure than what is not, so as not to be, still more; nor more
     luminous than what is, so as to be, even more than that.  We have
     found then that the many customary notions of the many, about
     Beauty and the rest are revolved somewhere between not-being and
     being unmixedly.

     So we have.

     And agreed, at least, at the outset, that if anything of this sort
     presented itself, it must be declared matter not of knowledge, but
     of opinion; to be apprehended by the intermediate faculty; as it
     wanders unfixed, there, between.  Republic, 478.

[46] Many a train of thought, many a turn of expression, only too
familiar, some may think, to the reader of Plato, are summarised in
that troublesome yet perhaps attractive passage.  The influence then of
Parmenides on Plato had made him, incurably (shall we say?) a dualist.
Only, practically, Plato's richly coloured genius will find a
compromise between the One which alone really is, is yet so empty a
thought for finite minds; and the Many, which most properly is not, yet
presses so closely on eye and ear and heart and fancy and will, at
every moment.  That which really is (to on)+ the One, if he is really to
think about it at all, must admit within it a certain variety of
members; and, in effect, for Plato the true Being, the Absolute, the
One, does become delightfully multiple, as the world of ideas--
appreciable, through years of loving study, more and more clearly, one
by one, as the perfectly concrete, mutually adjusted, permanent forms
of our veritable experience: the Bravery, for instance, that cannot be
confused, not merely with Cowardice, but with Wisdom, or Humility.  One
after another they emerge again from the dead level, the Parmenidean
tabula rasa, with nothing less than the reality of persons face to face
with us, of a personal identity.  It was as if the firm plastic
outlines of the delightful old Greek polytheism had found their way
back after all into a repellent monotheism.  Prefer as he may in theory
that [47] blank white light of the One--its sterile, "formless,
colourless, impalpable," eternal identity with itself--the world, and
this chiefly is why the world has not forgotten him, will be for him,
as he is by no means colour-blind, by no means a colourless place.  He
will suffer it to come to him, as his pages convey it in turn to us,
with the liveliest variety of hue, as in that conspicuously visual
emblem of it, the outline of which (essentially characteristic of
himself as it seems) he had really borrowed from the old Eleatic
teacher who had tried so hard to close the bodily eye that he might the
better apprehend the world unseen.--

     And now (he writes in the seventh book of The Republic) take
     for a figure of human nature, as regards education and the lack
     thereof, some such condition as this.  Think you see people as
     it were in some abode below-ground, like a cave, having its
     entrance spread out upwards towards the light, broad, across the
     whole cavern.  Suppose them here from childhood; their legs and
     necks chained; so that there they stay, and can see only what is
     in front of them, being unable by reason of the chain to move
     their heads round about: and the light of a fire upon them,
     blazing from far above, behind their backs: between the fire and
     the prisoners away up aloft: and see beside it a low wall built
     along, as with the showmen, in front of the people lie the screens
     above which they exhibit their wonders.

     I see: he said.

     See, then, along this low wall, men, bearing vessels of all sorts
     wrought in stone and wood; and, naturally, some of the bearers
     talking, other silent.

     It is a strange figure you describe: said he: and strange
     prisoners.--

     They are like ourselves: I answered!  Republic, 514.

[48] Metaphysical formulae have always their practical equivalents.
The ethical alliance of Heraclitus is with the Sophists, and the
Cyrenaics or the Epicureans; that of Parmenides, with Socrates, and the
Cynics or the Stoics.  The Cynic or Stoic ideal of a static calm is as
truly the moral or practical equivalent of the Parmenidean doctrine of
the One, as the Cyrenaic monochronos hdon+--the pleasure of the ideal
now--is the practical equivalent of the doctrine of motion; and, as
sometimes happens, what seems hopelessly perverse as a metaphysic for
the understanding is found to be realisable enough as one of many
phases of our so flexible human feeling.  The abstract philosophy of
the One might seem indeed to have been translated into the terms of a
human will in the rigid, disinterested, renunciant career of the
emperor Marcus Aurelius, its mortal coldness.  Let me however conclude
with a document of the Eleatic temper, nearer in its origin to the age
of Plato: an ancient fragment of Cleanthes the Stoic, which has justly
stirred the admiration of Stoical minds; though truly, so hard is it
not to lapse from those austere heights, the One, the Absolute, has
become in it after all, with much varied colour and detail in his
relations to concrete things and persons, our father Zeus.

An illustrious athlete; then a mendicant dealer in water-melons; chief
pontiff lastly of the sect of the Stoics; Cleanthes, as we see him in
anecdote [49] at least, is always a loyal, sometimes a very quaintly
loyal, follower of the Parmenidean or Stoic doctrine of detachment from
all material things.  It was at the most critical points perhaps of
such detachment, that somewhere about the year three hundred before
Christ, he put together the verses of his famous "Hymn."  By its
practical indifference, its resignation, its passive submission to the
One, the undivided Intelligence, which dia pantn phoita+--goes to and
fro through all things, the Stoic pontiff is true to the Parmenidean
schooling of his flock; yet departs from it also in a measure by a
certain expansion of phrase, inevitable, it may be, if one has to speak
at all about that chilly abstraction, still more make a hymn to it.  He
is far from the cold precept of Spinoza, that great re-assertor of the
Parmenidean tradition: That whoso loves God truly must not expect to be
loved by Him in return.  In truth, there are echoes here from many
various sources.  Ek sou gar genos esmen+:--that is quoted, as you
remember, by Saint Paul, so just after all to the pagan world, as its
testimony to some deeper Gnsis than its own.  Certainly Cleanthes has
conceived his abstract monotheism a little more winningly, somewhat
better, than dry, pedantic Xenophanes; perhaps because Socrates and
Plato have lived meanwhile.  You might even fancy what he says an echo
from Israel's devout response to the announcement: "The Lord thy God is
one Lord."  The Greek [50] certainly is come very near to his unknown
cousin at Sion in what follows:--

     kydist', athanatn, polynyme, pankrates aiei
     Zeu, physeos archge, nomou meta panta kybernn,
     chaire se gar pantessi themis thntoisi prosaudan, k.t.l.

          Mullach, Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, I. p. 151.

     Thou O Zeus art praised above all gods: many are Thy names and
     Thine is all power for ever.

     The beginning of the world was from Thee: and with law Thou
     rulest over all things.

     Unto Thee may all flesh speak: for we are Thy offspring.

     Therefore will I raise a hymn unto Thee: and will ever sing of
     Thy power.

     The whole order of the heavens obeyeth Thy word: as it moveth
     around the earth:

     With little and great lights mixed together: how great art Thou,
     King above all for ever!

     Nor is anything done upon earth apart from Thee: nor in the
     firmament, nor in the seas:

     Save that which the wicked do: by their own folly.

     But Thine is the skill to set even the crooked straight: what is
     without fashion is fashioned and the alien akin before Thee.

     Thus hast Thou fitted together all things in one: the good with
     the evil:

     That Thy word should be one in all things: abiding for ever.

     Let folly be dispersed from our souls: that we may repay Thee
     the honour, wherewith Thou hast honoured us:

     Singing praise of Thy works for ever: as becometh the sons of
     men.+

NOTES

29. +Transliteration: To Syngramma.  Translation: "The Prose."

32. +Transliteration: ousia achrmatos, aschmatistos, anaphs.  E-text
editor's translation:  "the colorless, utterly formless, intangible
essence."  Plato, Phaedrus 247c.  See also Appreciations, "Coleridge,"
where Pater uses the same quotation.

33. +Transliteration: aphasia.  Liddell and Scott definition:
"speechlessness."

34. +Transliteration: to on.  Translation: "that which is."

35. +The principle is that of Baruch Spinoza.

36. +Transliteration: Kosmos.  Liddell and Scott definition: "I. 1.
order; 2. good order, good behaviour, decency; 3. a set form or order:
of states, government; 4. the mode or fashion of a thing; II. an
ornament...; III. the world or universe, from its perfect arrangement."

36. +Transliteration: kosmiots.  Liddell and Scott definition:
"propriety, decorum, orderly behaviour."

36. +Transliteration: arch.  Liddell and Scott definition: "I.
beginning, first cause, origin.  II. 1. supreme power, sovereignty,
dominion; 2. office."

37. +Transliteration: para panta legomena.  Pater's translation: "in
spite of common language."

38.  "The Lord thy God. . . ."  Deuteronomy 6:4.  "Hear, O Israel: The
LORD our God is one LORD: . . ."  See also Mark 12:29: "And Jesus
answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The
Lord our God is one Lord: . . ."

38. +Transliteration: Peri physes.  E-text editor's translation:
"Regarding Nature--i.e. the title De Natur Rerum."

39. +Transliteration: h men hops estin te kai hs ouk esti m einai.
Pater's translation: "that what is, is; and that what is not, is not."
Parmenides, Epen Leipsana [Fragmentary Song or Poem], line 35.
Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, Vol. 1, 117.  Ed. F.W.A. Mullach.
Darmstadt: Scientia Verlag Aalen, 1967 (reprint of the Paris, 1860
edition).

39. +Transliteration: peithous esti keleuthos; althei gar opdei.
Pater's translation: "this is the path to persuasion, for truth goes
along with it."  Parmenides, Epen Leipsana [Fragmentary Song or Poem],
line 36.  Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, Vol. 1, 118.  Although I
have left the quotation as Pater renders it, the semicolon should be a
comma, as in the Mullach collection Pater used--otherwise the first
half of the sentence would be a question, and that is not how Pater
himself translates the verse.

39. +Transliteration: tn d toi phraz panapeithea emmen atarpon; oute
gar an gnois to ge m eon ou gar ephikton.  Pater's translation: "I
tell you that is the way which goes counter to persuasion: That which
is not, never could you know: there is no way of getting at that."
Parmenides, Epen Leipsana, lines 38-9.  Fragmenta Philosophorum
Graecorum, Vol. 1, 118.

39. +Transliteration: To gar auto voein estin te kai einai.  Pater's
translation in Latin: "idem est enim cogitare et esse"; in English,
that may be translated, "Thinking and being are identical."
Parmenides, Epen Leipsana, line 40.  Fragmenta Philosophorum
Graecorum, Vol. 1, 118.

39. +Transliteration: tothi gar palin hixomai authis.  Pater's
translation: "at what point I begin; for thither I shall come back over
again."  Parmenides, Epen Leipsana, line 42.  Fragmenta Philosophorum
Graecorum, Vol. 1, 118.

43. +Transliteration: heteron epistms doxa; eph' heter ara heteron ti
dynamen hekatera autn pephyke; ouk enchrei gnston kai doxaston
tauton einai.  E-text editor's translation: "opinion differs from
scientific knowledge...To each of them belongs a different power, so to
each falls a different sphere...it is not possible for knowledge and
opinion to be one and the same."  Plato, Republic, 478a-b.

44. +Transliteration: aei kata tauta hsauts echousan.  Pater's
translation: "ever in the same condition in regard to the same things."
Plato, Republic 478.

45. +Transliteration: ho philotheamn.  Liddell and Scott definition
"fond of seeing, fond of spectacles or shows."  This word is from the
same passage just cited, note for page 44.

46. +Transliteration: to on.  Translation: "that which is."

48. Transliteration: monochronos hdon.  Pater's definition "the
pleasure of the ideal now."  The adjective monochronos means,
literally, "single or unitary time."  See also Marius the Epicurean,
Vol. 1, Cyrenaicism, and Vol. 2, Second Thoughts, where Pater quotes
the same key Cyrenaic language.

49. +Transliteration: dia pantn phoita.  E-text editor's translation:
"which courses through all things."  Cleanthes (300-220 B.C.), Hymn to
Zeus, lines 12-13.  Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, Vol. 1, 151.
Ed. F.W.A. Mullach.  Darmstadt: Scientia Verlag Aalen, 1967 (reprint of
the Paris, 1860 edition).  Pater has translated Cleanthes' phrase
koinos logos as "undivided Intelligence."  The relevant verse reads,
"su kateuthyns koinon logon, hos dia pantn phoita,"  which may be
translated, "You guide the Universal Thought that courses through all
things."  But the word logos is multivalent and subject to
philosophical nuance, so any translation of it is bound to be limited.

49. +Transliteration: Ek sou gar genos esmen.  E-text editor's
translation: "For we are born of you."  Cleanthes (300-220 B.C.), Hymn
to Zeus, line 4.  Fragmenta Philosophorum Graecorum, Vol. 1, 151.
Pater alludes also to Saint Paul's words in Acts 17:28: "For in him we
live, and move, and have our being."

50. +Here Pater provides a somewhat abbreviated translation of the Hymn
to Zeus.  As above, the Greek is from Fragmenta Philosophorum
Graecorum, Vol. 1, 151.



CHAPTER 3: PLATO AND THE DOCTRINE OF NUMBER

[51] His devotion to the austere and abstract philosophy of Parmenides,
its passivity or indifference, could not repress the opulent genius of
Plato, or transform him into a cynic.  Another ancient philosopher,
Pythagoras, set the frozen waves in motion again, brought back to
Plato's recognition all that multiplicity in men's experience to which
Heraclitus had borne such emphatic witness; but as rhythm or melody
now--in movement truly, but moving as disciplined sound and with the
reasonable soul of music in it.

Pythagoras, or the founder of the Pythagorean philosophy, is the third
of those earlier masters, who explain the intellectual confirmation of
Plato by way of antecedent.  What he said, or was believed to have
said, is almost everywhere in the very texture of Platonic philosophy,
as vera vox, an authority with prescript claim on sympathetic or at
least reverent consideration, to be developed generously in the natural
growth of Plato's own thoughts.

[52] Nothing remains of his writings: dark statements only, as occasion
served, in later authors.  Plato himself attributes those doctrines of
his not to Pythagoras but to the Pythagoreans.  But if no such name had
come down to us we might have understood how, in the search for the
philosophic unity of experience, a common measure of things, for a
cosmical hypothesis, number and the truths of number would come to fill
the place occupied by some omnipresent physical element, air, fire,
water, in the philosophies of Ionia; by the abstract and exclusive idea
of the unity of Being itself in the system of Parmenides.  To realise
unity in variety, to discover cosmos--an order that shall satisfy one's
reasonable soul--below and within apparent chaos: is from first to last
the continuous purpose of what we call philosophy.  Well!  Pythagoras
seems to have found that unity of principle (arch)+ in the dominion of
number everywhere, the proportion, the harmony, the music, into which
number as such expands.  Truths of number: the essential laws of
measure in time and space:--Yes, these are indeed everywhere in our
experience: must, as Kant can explain to us, be an element in anything
we are able so much as to conceive at all.  And music, covering all it
does, for Pythagoras, for Plato and Platonism--music, which though it
is of course much besides, is certainly a formal development of purely
numerical laws: that too surely is something, [53] independently of
ourselves, in the real world without us, like a personal intelligible
soul durably resident there for those who bring intelligence of it, of
music, with them; to be known on the favourite Platonic principle of
like by like (homoion homoi)+ though the incapable or uninstructed ear,
in various degrees of dulness, may fail to apprehend it.

The Golden Verses of Pythagoras parted early into dust (that seems
strange, if they were ever really written in a book) and antiquity
itself knows little directly about his doctrine.  Yet Pythagoras is
much more than a mere name, a term, for locating as well as may be a
philosophical abstraction.  Pythagoras, his person, his memory,
attracted from the first a kind of fairy-tale of mystic science.  The
philosophy of number, of music and proportion, came, and has remained,
in a cloud of legendary glory; the gradual accumulation of which
Porphyry and Iamblichus, the fantastic masters of Neo-Platonism, or
Neo-Pythagoreanism, have embodied in their so-called Lives of him, like
some antique fable richly embossed with starry wonders.  In this spirit
there had been much writing about him: that he was a son of Apollo,
nay, Apollo himself--the twilight, attempered, Hyperborean Apollo, like
the sun in Lapland: that his person gleamed at times with a
supernatural brightness: that he had exposed to those who loved him a
golden thigh: how Abaris, the minister of that god, [54] had come
flying to him on a golden arrow: of his almost impossible journeys: how
he was seen, had lectured indeed, in different places at the same time.
As he walked on the banks of the Nessus the river had whispered his
name: he had been, in the secondary sense, various persons in the
course of ages; a courtesan once, for some ancient sin in him; and then
a hero, Euphorbus, son of Panthus; could remember very distinctly so
recent a matter as the Trojan war, and had recognised in a moment his
own old armour, hanging on the wall, above one of his old dead bodies,
in the temple of Athene at Argos; showing out all along only by hints
and flashes the abysses of divine knowledge within him, sometimes by
miracle.  For if the philosopher really is all that Pythagoras or the
Pythagoreans suppose; if the material world is so perfect a musical
instrument, and he knows its theory so well, he might surely give
practical and sensible proof of that on occasion, by himself
improvising music upon it in direct miracle.  And so there, in Porphyry
and Iamblichus, the appropriate miracles are.

If the mistaken affection of the disciples of dreamy Neo-Platonic
Gnsis at Alexandria, in the third or fourth century of our era, has
thus made it impossible to separate later legend from original evidence
as to what he was, and said, and how he said it, yet that there was a
brilliant, perhaps a showy, personality there, infusing the [55] most
abstract truths with what would tell on the fancy, seems more than
probable, and, though he would appear really to have had from the first
much of mystery or mysticism about him, the thaumaturge of Samos, "whom
even the vulgar might follow as a conjuror," must have been very unlike
the lonely "weeping" philosopher of Ephesus, or the almost disembodied
philosopher of Elea.  In the very person and doings of this earliest
master of the doctrine of harmony, people saw that philosophy is

     Not harsh and crabbed, as dull fools suppose,
     But musical as is Apollo's lute.

And in turn he abounded in influence on the deeds, the persons, of
others, as if he had really carried a magic lute in his hands to charm
them.

As his fellow-citizens had all but identified Pythagoras with him, so
Apollo remained the peculiar patron of the Pythagoreans; and we may
note, in connexion with their influence on Plato, that as Apollo was
the chosen ancestral deity, so Pythagoreanism became especially the
philosophy, of the severely musical Dorian Greeks.  If, as Plato was
aware, or fancied, true Spartans knew more of philosophy than they let
strangers suppose--turned them all out from time to time and feasted on
it in secret, for the strengthening of their souls--it was [56]
precisely the Pythagorean philosophy of music, of austere music,
mastering, remoulding, men's very bodies, they would then have
discussed with one another.

A native of Ionia, it is in one of the Dorian cities of Magna Graecia,
at Crotona, that Pythagoras finds the fitting scene of his mysterious
influence.  He founds there something like an ideal republic, or rather
a religious brotherhood, under a rule outwardly expressive of that
inward idea of order or harmony, so dear to the Dorian soul, and, for
it, as for him, ever the peculiar pledge of the presence of philosophic
truth.  Altheian de ametria hgei syngen einai,  emmetria;+ asks one
in The Republic; and Emmetria?+ of course, is the answer.

Recalling the student of Plato to penetrate as far as he can into that
mysterious community, there, long before, in the imagination of
Pythagoras is the first dream of the Perfect City, with all those
peculiar ethical sympathies which the Platonic Republic enforces
already well defined--the perfect mystic body of the Dorian soul,
built, as Plato requires, to the strains of music.  As a whole, and in
its members severally, it would reproduce and visibly reflect to others
that inward order and harmony of which each one was a part.  As such,
the Pythagorean order (it was itself an "order") expanded and was long
maintained in those cities of Magna Graecia which had been the scene of
the practical [57] no less than of the speculative activity of its
founder; and in one of which, Metapontum, so late as the days of Cicero
what was believed to be the tomb of Pythagoras was still shown.  Order,
harmony, the temperance, which, as Plato will explain to us, will
convince us by the visible presentment of it in the faultless person of
the youthful Charmides, is like a musical harmony,--that was the chief
thing Pythagoras exacted from his followers, at least at first, though
they were mainly of the noble and wealthy class who could have done
what they liked--temperance in a religious intention, with many
singular scruples concerning bodily purification, diet, and the like.
For if, according to his philosophy, the soul had come from heaven, to
use the phrase of Wordsworth reproducing the central Pythagorean
doctrine, "from heaven," as he says, "trailing clouds of glory," so the
arguments of Pythagoras were always more or less explicitly involving
one in consideration of the means by which one might get back thither,
of which means, surely, abstinence, the repression of one's carnal
elements, must be one; in consideration also, in curious questions, as
to the relationship of those carnal elements in us to the pilgrim soul,
before and after, for which he was so anxious to secure full use of all
the opportunities of further perfecting which might yet await it, in
the many revolutions of its existence.  In the midst of that
aesthetically [58] so brilliant world of Greater Greece, as if
anticipating Plato, he has, like the philosophic kings of the Platonic
Republic, already something of the monk, of monastic ascsis, about
him.  Its purpose is to fit him for, duly to refine his nature towards,
that closer vision of truth to which perchance he may be even now upon
his way.  The secrecy again, that characteristic silence of which the
philosopher of music was,  perhaps not inconsistently, a lover, which
enveloped the entire action of the Pythagoreans, and had indeed kept
Pythagoras himself, as some have thought, from committing his thoughts
to writing at all, was congruous with such monkish discipline.
Mysticism--the condition of the initiated--is a word derived, as we
know, from a Greek verb which may perhaps mean to close the eye that
one may better perceive the invisible, but more probably means to close
the lips while the soul is brooding over what cannot be uttered.  Later
Christian admirers said of him, that he had hidden the words of God in
his heart.

The dust of his golden verses perhaps, but certainly the gold-dust of
his thoughts, lies scattered all along Greek literature from Plato to
the latest of the Greek Fathers of the Church.  You may find it
serviceably worked out in the notes of Zeller's excellent work on Greek
philosophy, and, with more sparing comment, in Mullach's Fragmenta
Philosophorum Graecorum.  No one of those Pre-Socratic philosophers has
[59] been the subject of a more enthusiastic erudition.  For his mind's
health however, if in doing so he is not making a disproportionate use
of his time, inconsistent certainly with the essential temper of the
doctrine he seeks for, and such as a true Pythagorean would instantly
condemn, the young scholar might be recommended to go straight to the
pages of Aristotle--those discreet, unromantic pages, salutary
therefore to listen to, concerning doctrines in themselves so
fantastic.*  In the Ethics, as you may know, in the Metaphysics, and
elsewhere, Aristotle gives many not unsympathetic notices at least of
the disciples, which, by way of sober contrast on a matter from the
first profusely, perhaps cheaply, embroidered, is like quiet
information from Pythagoras himself.  Only, remember always in reading
Plato--Plato, as a sincere learner in the school of Pythagoras--that
the essence, the active principle of the Pythagorean doctrine, resides,
not as with the ancient Eleatics, nor as with our modern selves too
often, in the "infinite," those eternities, infinitudes, abysses,
Carlyle invokes for us so often--in no cultus of the infinite (to
apeiron) but in the finite (to peras).+  It is so indeed, with that
exception of the Parmenidean sect, through all Greek philosophy,
congruously with the proper vocation of the [60] people of art, of art
as being itself the finite, ever controlling the infinite, the
formless.  Those famous systoichiai tn enantin,+ or parallel columns
of contraries: the One and the Many: Odd and Even, and the like: Good
and Evil: are indeed all reducible ultimately to terms of art, as the
expressive and the inexpressive.  Now observe that Plato's "theory of
ideas" is but an effort to enforce the Pythagorean peras,+ with all the
unity-in-variety of concerted music,--eternal definition of the finite,
upon to apeiron,+ the infinite, the indefinite, formless, brute matter,
of our experience of the world.

For it is of Plato again we should be thinking, and of Pythagoras or
the Pythagoreans, only so far as they explain the actual conformation
of Plato's thoughts as we find them, especially in The Republic.  Let
us see, as much as possible in his own words, what Plato received from
that older philosophy, of which the two leading persuasions were;
first, the universality, the ultimate truth, of numerical, of musical
law; and secondly, the pre-existence, the double eternity, of the soul.

In spirit, then, we are certainly of the Pythagorean company in that
most characteristic dialogue, the Meno, in which Plato discusses the
nature, the true idea, of Virtue, or rather how one may attain thereto;
compelled to this subordinate and accessory question by the
intellectual [61] cowardice of his disciple, though after his manner he
flashes irrepressible light on that other primary and really
indispensable question by the way.  Pythagoras, who had founded his
famous brotherhood by way of turning theory into practice, must have
had, of course, definite views on that most practical question, how
virtue is to be attained by us; and Plato is certainly faithful to him
in assigning the causation of virtue partly to discipline, forming
habit (asksis)+ as enforced on the monk, the soldier, the schoolboy, as
he is true to his own experience in assigning it partly also to a good
natural disposition (physei)+ and he suggests afterwards, as I suppose
some of us would be ready to do, that virtue is due also in part (theia
moira)+ to the good pleasure of heaven, to un-merited grace.  Whatever
else, however, may be held about it, it is certain (he admits) that
virtue comes in great measure through learning.  But is there in very
deed such a thing as learning? asks the eristic Meno, who is so
youthfully fond of argument for its own sake, and must exercise by
display his already well-trained intellectual muscle.  Is not that
favourite, that characteristic, Greek paradox, that it is impossible to
be taught, and therefore useless to seek, what one does not know
already, after all the expression of an empirical truth?--

     Meno.  After what manner Socrates will you seek for that which
     you do not know at all--what it is?  For what sort of thing,
     among the things you know not, will you propose as your [62]
     object of search?  Or even if you should have lighted full upon
     it, how will you know that it is this thing which you knew not?

     Socrates.  Ah!  I understand the kind of thing you mean to say,
     Meno.  Do you see what a contentious argument this is you are
     bringing down on our heads?--that forsooth it is not possible
     for a man to seek either for what he knows, or for what he knows
     not; inasmuch as he would not seek what he knows, at least;
     because he knows it, and to one in such case there is no need
     of seeking.  Nor would he seek after what he knows not; for he
     knows not what he shall seek for.  Meno, 80.

Well! that is true in a sense, as Socrates admits; not however in any
sense which encourages idle acquiescence in what according to common
language is our ignorance.  There is a sense (it is exemplified in
regard to sound and colour, perhaps in some far more important things)
in which it is matter of experience that it is impossible to seek for,
or be taught, what one does not know already.  He who is in total
ignorance of musical notes, who has no ear, will certainly be unaware
of them when they light on him, or he lights upon them.  Where could
one begin? we ask, in certain cases where not to know at all means
incapacity for receiving knowledge.  Yes, certainly; the Pythagoreans
are right in saying that what we call learning is in fact reminiscence-
-: anamnsis + famous word! and Socrates proceeds to show in what precise
way it is impossible or possible to find out what you don't know: how
that happens.  In full use of the dialogue, as itself the instrument
most [63] fit for him of whatever what we call teaching and learning
may really be, Plato, dramatic always, brings in one of Meno's slaves,
a boy who speaks Greek nicely, but knows nothing of geometry:
introduces him, we may fancy, into a mathematical lecture-room where
diagrams are to be seen on the walls, cubes and the like lying on the
table--particular objects, the mere sight of which will rouse him when
subjected to the dialectical treatment, to universal truths concerning
them.  The problem required of him is to describe a square of a
particular size: to find the line which must be the side of such a
square; and he is to find it for himself.  Meno, carefully on his
guard, is to watch whether the boy is taught by Socrates in any of his
answers; whether he answers anything at any point otherwise than by way
of reminiscence and really out of his own mind, as the reasonable
questions of Socrates fall like water on the seed-ground, or like
sunlight on the photographer's negative.

"See him now!" he cries triumphantly, "How he remembers; in the logical
order; as he ought to remember!"  The reader, in truth, following
closely, scrupulously, this pretty process, cannot help seeing that
after all the boy does not discover the essential point of the problem
for himself, that he is more than just guided on his way by the
questioning of Socrates, that Plato has chosen an instance in itself
illusively clear as being concerned with elementary space.  It is [64]
once for all, however, that he recognises, under such questioning, the
immovable, indefectible certainty of this or that truth of space.  So
much, the candid reader must concede, is clearly to the advantage of
the Pythagorean theory: that even his false guesses have a
plausibility, a kinship to, a kind of claim upon, truth, about them:
that as he remembers, in logical order (hs dei)+ so he makes the
mistakes also which he ought to make--the right sort of mistakes, such
as are natural and ought to occur in order to the awakening mind, a
kind of properly innate errors.  Nyn aut hsper onar arti anakekintai
hai doxai autai.+--"Just now, as in a dream, these opinions have been
stirred up within him"; and he will perform, Socrates assures us,
similar acts of reminiscence on demand, with other geometrical
problems, with any and every problem whatever.

"If then," observes Socrates in the Phaedo, wistfully pondering, for
such consolation as there may be in it, in his last hours, the larger
outlook suggested by this hopeful doctrine:--

     If, having apprehended it (having apprehended a certain mathe-
     matical principle, that is) before birth, we were born already
     possessed of this principle, had we not knowledge, both before
     and immediately upon our begetting here, not merely about the
     equal and the greater and the less, but about all other things
     of the kind?  For our theory (of an innate knowledge, that is
     to say, independent of our experience here) our theory holds
     not a bit more about two equal lines, than about the absolute
     Beauty (was he going now to see its very face again, after the
     dim intermediate life here?) and about what is absolutely just
     and good, and about all things whatever, upon [65] which, in
     all our past questioning and answering, we set this seal--hois
     episphragizometha touto + --That, which really is.  Phaedo, 75.

But to return to the cheerful pages of the Meno--from the prison-cell
to the old mathematical lecture-room and that psychological experiment
upon the young boy with the square:-- Oukoun oudenos didaxantos, all'
ertsantos, epistsetai, analabn, autos ex hautou, epistmn;+
"Through no one's teaching, then, but by a process of mere questioning,
will he attain a true science, knowledge in the fullest sense
(epistm)+ by the recovery of such science out of himself?"--Yes! and
that recovery is an act of reminiscence.

These opinions therefore, the boy's discoverable right notions about
side and square and diagonal, were innate in him (ensan de ge aut
autai hai doxai)+ and surely, as Socrates was observing later, right
opinions also concerning other things more important, which too, when
stirred up by a process of questioning, will be established in him as
consciously reasoned knowledge (ertsei epegertheisai, epistmai
gignontai).+  That at least is what Plato is quite certain about: not
quite so confident, however, regarding another doctrine, fascinating as
he finds it, which seemed to afford an explanation of this leading
psychological fact of an antecedent knowledge within us--the doctrine
namely of metempsychsis, of the transmigration of souls through
various forms of the bodily life, [66] under a law of moral
retribution, somewhat oracularly suggested in the ancient poets, by
Hesiod and Pindar, but a matter of formal consciousness with the
Pythagoreans, and at last inseparably connected with the authority of
Socrates, who in the Phaedo discourses at great length on that so
comfortable theory, venturing to draw from it, as we saw just now, a
personal hope in the immediate prospect of death.  The soul, then,
would be immortal (athanatos an h psych ei)+ prospectively as well as
in retrospect, and is not unlikely to attain to clearer levels of truth
"over the way, there," as, in the Meno, Socrates drew from it an
encouragement to the search for truth, here.  Retrospectively, at all
events, it seemed plain that "the soul is eternal.  It is right
therefore to make an effort to find out things one may not know, that
is to say, one does not remember, just now."  Those notions were in the
boy, they and the like of them, in all boys and men; and he did not
come by them in this life, a young slave in Athens.  Ancient, half-
obliterated inscriptions on the mental walls, the mental tablet, seeds
of knowledge to come, shed by some flower of it long ago, it was in an
earlier period of time they had been laid up in him, to blossom again
now, so kindly, so firmly!

Upon a soul thus provided, puzzled as that seed swells within it under
the spring-tide influences of this untried atmosphere, it would be the
proper vocation of the philosophic teacher [67] to supervene with his
encouraging questions.  And there was another doctrine--a persuasion
still more poetical or visionary, it might seem, yet with a strong
presumption of literal truth about it, when seen in connexion with that
great fact of our consciousness which it so conveniently explains--
"reminiscence."  Socrates had heard it, he tells us in the Meno, in the
locus classicus on this matter, from the venerable lips of certain
religious persons, priests and priestesses,

     --who had made it their business to be able to give an account
     concerning their sacred functions.  Pindar too asserts this,
     and many other of the poets, so many as were divinely inspired.
     And what they say is as follows.  But do you observe, whether
     they seem to you to speak the truth.  For they say that the soul
     of man is immortal; and that at one time it comes to a pause,
     which indeed they call dying, and then is born again; but that
     it is never destroyed.  That on this account indeed it is our
     duty to pass through life as religiously as possible (because
     there's 'another world,' namely).  'For those,' says Pindar,
     'from whom Persephone shall have received a recompense of ancient
     wrong--she gives back their soul again to the sun above in the
     ninth year, of whom are begotten kings, illustrious and swift in
     strength, and men greatest in wisdom; and for remaining time they
     are called holy heroes among us.'  Inasmuch then as the soul is
     immortal, and has been born many times, and has seen both things
     here and things in Hades, and all things, there is nothing that
     it has not learned; so that it is by no means surprising that
     it should be able to remember both about virtue and about other
     matters what it knew at least even aforetime.  For inasmuch as
     the whole of nature is akin to itself (homogeneous) and the soul
     has learned all things, nothing hinders one, by remembering one
     thing only, which indeed people call 'learning' (though it is
     something else in fact, you see!) from finding out all other
     things for himself, if he be brave and fail not through weariness
     in his search.  For in truth to [68] seek and to learn is wholly
     Recollection.  Therefore one must not be persuaded by that eristic
     doctrine (namely that if ignorant in ignorance you must remain)
     for that on the one hand would make us idle and is a pleasant
     doctrine for the weak among mankind to hear; while this other
     doctrine makes us industrious and apt to seek.  Trusting in
     which that it is true, I am willing along with you to seek out
     virtue:--what it is.  Meno, 81.

These strange theories then are much with Socrates on his last sad day-
-sad to his friends--as justifying more or less, on ancient religious
authority, the instinctive confidence, checking sadness in himself,
that he will survive--survive the effects of the poison, of the funeral
fire; that somewhere, with some others, with Minos perhaps and other
"righteous souls" of the national religion, he will be holding
discourses, dialogues, quite similar to these, only a little better as
must naturally happen with so diligent a scholar, this time to-morrow.

And that wild thought of metempsychsis was connected with a theory,
yet more fantastic, of the visible heaven above us.  For Pythagoras,
the Pythagoreans, had had their views also, as became the possessors of
"a first principle"--of a philosophy therefore which need leave no
problem untouched--on purely material things, above all on the
structure of the planets, the mechanical contrivances by which their
motion was effected (it came to just that!) on the relation of the
earth to its atmosphere and the like.  The doctrine of the
transmigration, [69] the pilgrimage or mental journeys, of the soul
linked itself readily with a fanciful, guess-work astronomy, which
provided starry places, wide areas, hostelries, for that wanderer to
move or rest in.  A matter of very lively and presentable form and
colour, as if making the invisible show through, this too pleased the
extremely visual fancy of Plato; as we may see, in many places of the
Phaedo, the Phaedrus, the Timaeus, and most conspicuously in the tenth
book of The Republic, where he relates the vision of Er--what he saw of
the other world during a kind of temporary death.  Hell, Purgatory,
Paradise, are briefly depicted in it; Paradise especially with a quite
Dantesque sensibility to coloured light--physical light or spiritual,
you can hardly tell which, so perfectly is the inward sense blent with
its visible counter-part, reminding one forcibly of the Divine Comedy,
of which those closing pages of The Republic suggest an early outline.

That then is the third element in Plato derivative from his Pythagorean
masters: an astronomy of infant minds, we might call it, in which the
celestial world is the scene, not as yet of those abstract reasonable
laws of number and motion and space, upon which, as Plato himself
protests in the seventh book of The Republic, it is the business of a
veritable science of the stars to exercise our minds, but rather of a
machinery, which the mere star-gazer may peep into as best he can, with
its levers, its spindles and revolving [70] wheels, its spheres, he
says,--"like those boxes which fit into one another," and the literal
doors "opened in heaven," through which, at the due point of ascension,
the revolving pilgrim soul will glide forth and have a chance of gazing
into the wide spaces beyond,  "as he stands outside on the back of the
sky"--that hollow partly transparent sphere which surrounds and closes
in our terrestrial atmosphere.  Most difficult to follow in detailed
description, perhaps not to be taken quite seriously, one thing at
least is clear about the planetary movements as Plato and his
Pythagorean teachers conceive them.  They produce, naturally enough,
sounds, that famous "music of the spheres," which the undisciplined ear
fails to recognise, to delight in, only because it is never silent.

That it really is impossible after all to learn, to be taught what you
are entirely ignorant of, was and still is a fact of experience,
manifest especially in regard to music.  Now that "music of the
spheres" in its largest sense, its completest orchestration, the
harmonious order of the whole universe (kosmos)+ was what souls had
heard of old; found echoes of here; might recover in its entirety, amid
the influences of the melodious colour, sounds, manners, the enforced
modulating discipline, which would make the whole life of a citizen of
the Perfect City an education in music.  We are now with Plato, you
see! in his reproduction, so fully detailed for us in The [71]
Republic, of the earlier and vaguer Pythagorean brotherhood.  Musical
imagery, the notions of proportion and the like, have ever since Plato
wrote played a large part in the theory of morals; have come to seem
almost a natural part of language concerning them.  Only, wherever in
Plato himself you find such imagery, you may note Pythagorean
influence.

The student of The Republic hardly needs to be reminded how all-
pervasive in it that imagery is; how emphatic, in all its speculative
theory, in all its practical provisions, is the desire for harmony; how
the whole business of education (of gymnastic even, the seeming rival
of music) is brought under it; how large a part of the claims of duty,
of right conduct, for the perfectly initiated, comes with him to be
this, that it sounds so well.  Plmmeleia,+ discordancy,--all faultiness
resolves itself into that.  "Canst play on this flute?" asks Hamlet:--
on human nature, with all its stops, of whose capricious tuneableness,
or want of tune, he is himself the representative.  Well! the perfect
state, thinks Plato, can.  For him, music is still everywhere in the
world, and the whole business of philosophy only as it were the correct
editing of it: as it will be the whole business of the state to
repress, in the great concert, the jarring self-assertion (pleonexia)+
of those whose voices have large natural power in them.  How, in
detail, rhythm, the limit (peras)+ is enforced in Plato's Republic there
is no time to [72] show.  Call to mind only that the perfect visible
equivalent of such rhythm is in those portrait-statues of the actual
youth of Greece--legacy of Greek sculpture more precious by far than
its fancied forms of deity--the quoit-player, the diadumenus, the
apoxyomenus; and how the most beautiful type of such youth, by the
universal admission of the Greeks themselves, had issued from the
severe schools of Sparta, that highest civic embodiment of the Dorian
temper, like some perfect musical instrument, perfectly responsive to
the intention, to the lightest touch, of the finger of law.--Yet with a
fresh setting of the old music in each succeeding generation.  For in
truth we come into the world, each one of us, "not in nakedness," but
by the natural course of organic development clothed far more
completely than even Pythagoras supposed in a vesture of the past, nay,
fatally shrouded, it might seem, in those laws or tricks of heredity
which we mistake for our volitions; in the language which is more than
one half of our thoughts; in the moral and mental habits, the customs,
the literature, the very houses, which we did not make for ourselves;
in the vesture of a past, which is (so science would assure us) not
ours, but of the race, the species: that Zeit-geist, or abstract
secular process, in which, as we could have had no direct consciousness
of it, so we can pretend to no future personal interest.  It is
humanity itself now--abstract humanity--that [73] figures as the
transmigrating soul, accumulating into its "colossal manhood" the
experience of ages; making use of, and casting aside in its march, the
souls of countless individuals, as Pythagoras supposed the individual
soul to cast aside again and again its outworn body.

So it may be.  There was nothing of all that, however, in the mind of
the great English poet at the beginning of this century whose famous
Ode on The Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Childhood,
in which he made metempsychsis his own, must still express for some
minds something more than merely poetic truth.  For Pythagoreanism too,
like all the graver utterances of primitive Greek philosophy, is an
instinct of the human mind itself, and therefore also a constant
tradition in its history, which will recur; fortifying this or that
soul here or there in a part at least of that old sanguine assurance
about itself, which possessed Socrates so immovably, his masters, his
disciples.  Those who do not already know Wordsworth's Ode ought soon
to read it for themselves.  Listen instead to the lines which perhaps
suggested Wordsworth's: The Retreat, by Henry Vaughan, one of the so-
called Platonist poets of about two centuries ago, who was able to
blend those Pythagorean doctrines with the Christian belief, amid which
indeed, from the unsanctioned dreams of Origen onwards, those doctrines
have shown themselves not otherwise than at home.

[74] Happy, those days, he declares,

     Before I understood this place,
     Appointed for my second race;
     Or taught my soul to fancy ought
     But a white celestial thought;
     When yet I had not walked above
     A mile or two from my first love;
     But felt through all this fleshly dress
     Bright shoots of everlastingness.
     O! how I long to travel back
     And tread again that ancient track!
     That I might once more reach that plain,
     Where first I left my glorious train.--
     But Ah! my soul with too much stay
     Is drunk; and staggers in the way.
     Some men a forward motion love,
     But I backward steps would move;
     And when this dust falls to the urn
     In that state I came return.

Summing up those three philosophies antecedent to Plato, we might say,
that if Heraclitus taught the doctrine of progress, and the Eleatics
that of rest, so, in such quaint phrase as Vaughan's, Pythagoreanism is
the philosophy of re-action.

NOTES

52. +Transliteration: arch.  Liddell and Scott definition: "I.
beginning, first cause, origin.  II. 1. supreme power, sovereignty,
dominion; 2. office."

53. +Transliteration: homoion homoi.  Translation: "like by like."

56. +Transliteration: Altheian de ametria hgei syngen einai, 
emmetria.  E-text editor's translation: "And do you suppose that truth
is close kin to measure and proportion, or to disproportion?"  Plato,
The Republic, Book VI, 486d.

56. +Transliteration: Emmetria.  E-text editor's translation: "To
measure and proportion."  Plato, The Republic, Book VI, 486d.

59. *Or to Mr. Burnet's Early Greek Philosophy; which I have read since
these pages went to press, with much admiration for its learning and
lucidity, and its unconventionality of view.

59. +Transliteration: to apeiron . . . to peras.  Liddell and Scott
definition: "I. without trial or experience of a thing . . . II.
boundless, endless, countless / an end, extremity."  As Pater
indicates, in Plato the terms mean something like "infinite" and
"finite," or "bounded" and "unbounded."

60. +Transliteration: systoichiai tn enantin.  "Co-ordinates
consisting of opposites."

60. +Transliteration: peras.  See above, second note for page 59.

60. +Transliteration: to apeiron.  See above, second note for page 59.

61. +Transliteration: asksis.  Liddell and Scott definition:
"excercise, training."

61. +Transliteration: physei.  Liddell and Scott definition of physis:
"the nature, inborn quality, property or constitution of a person or
thing."  Thus, the dative form cited by Pater means, "with regard to
nature."

61. +Transliteration: theia moira.  Translation: "one's lot by divine
appointment."

62. +Transliteration: anamnsis.  Liddell and Scott definition: "a
calling to mind, recollection."

64. +Transliteration: hs dei.  E-text editor's translation: "as is
necessary."

64. +Transliteration: Nyn aut hsper onar arti anakekintai hai doxai
autai.  Pater's translation: "Just now, as in a dream, these opinions
have been stirred up within him."  Plato, Meno, 85c.

65. +Transliteration: hois episphragizometha touto.  E-text editor's
translation: "these things upon which we set this seal."  Plato,
Phaedo, 75d.

65. +Transliteration: Oukoun oudenos didaxantos, all' ertsantos,
epistsetai, analabn, autos ex hautou, epistmn.  E-text editor's
translation: "No-one having taught him a thing, but rather through
questioning alone, he will understand for certain, retrieving the
knowledge out of himself?"  Plato, Meno, 85d.

65. +Transliteration: epistm.  Liddell and Scott definition "1.
knowledge, understanding, skill, experience, wisdom; 2. scientific
knowledge."

65. +Transliteration: ensan de ge aut autai hai doxai.  E-text
editor's translation: "Yet these notions were [already] implanted in
him, weren't they?"  Plato, Meno 85c.  Source, if any.

65. +Transliteration: [enesontai auti altheis doxai,] ertsei
epegertheisai, epistmai gignontai.  E-text editor's translation: "[He
holds within himself true opinions,] which a questioning process may
awaken into certain knowledge."  Plato, Meno 86a.

66. +Transliteration: athanatos an h psych ei.  Pater's translation:
"The soul, then, would be immortal."  Plato, Meno 86b.

70. +Transliteration: kosmos.  Liddell and Scott definition: "I. 1.
order; 2. good order, good behaviour, decency; 3. a set form or order:
of states, government; 4. the mode or fashion of a thing; II. an
ornament...; III. the world or universe, from its perfect arrangement."

71. +Transliteration: Plmmeleia.  Liddell and Scott definition: "a
false note . . . error, offense."

71. +Transliteration: pleonexia.  Liddell and Scott definition: "a
disposition to take more than one's share."

71. +Transliteration: peras.  See above, note two, page 59.



CHAPTER 4: PLATO AND SOCRATES

[75] "PLATO," we say habitually when we talk of our teacher in The
Republic, the Phaedrus, cutting a knot; for Plato speaks to us
indirectly only, in his Dialogues, by the voice of the Platonic
Socrates, a figure most ambiguously compacted of the real Socrates and
Plato himself; a purely dramatic invention, it might perhaps have been
fancied, or, so to speak, an idolon theatri--Plato's self, but
presented, with the reserve appropriate to his fastidious genius, in a
kind of stage disguise.  So we might fancy but for certain independent
information we possess about Socrates, in Aristotle, and in the
Memorabilia of Xenophon.

The Socrates of Xenophon is one of the simplest figures in the world.
From the personal memories of that singularly limpid writer the outline
of the great teacher detaches itself, as an embodiment of all that was
clearest in the now adult Greek understanding, the adult Greek
conscience.  All that Socrates is seen to be in [76] those unaffected
pages may be explained by the single desire to be useful to ordinary
young men, whose business in life would be mainly with practical
things; and at first sight, as delineators of their common master,
Plato and Xenophon might seem scarcely reconcilable.  But then, as
Alcibiades alleges of him in the Symposium, Socrates had been ever in
all respects a two-sided being; like some rude figure of Silenus, he
suggests, by way of an outer case for the image of a god within.  By a
mind, of the compass Plato himself supposes, two quite different
impressions may well have been made on two typically different
observers.  The speaker, to Xenophon so simple, almost homely, earthy,
vernacular, becomes with Plato the mouth-piece of high and difficult
and extraordinary thoughts.  In the absence, then, of a single written
word from Socrates himself, the question is forced upon us: had the
true Socrates been really Socrates according to Xenophon, and all
besides only a generous loan from the rich treasury of Plato's quite
original and independent genius: or, had the master been indeed
something larger and more many-sided than Xenophon could have
thoroughly understood, presenting to his simpler disciple only what was
of simpler stamp in himself, to the mystic and susceptible Plato all
that far-reaching and fervid intellectuality, with which the Platonic
Dialogues credit him.  It is a problem about which probably no reader
of [77] Plato ever quite satisfies himself:--how much precisely he must
deduct from Socrates, as we find him in those Dialogues, by way of
defining to himself the Socrates of fact.

In Plato's own writing about Socrates there is, however, a difference.
The Apology, marked as being the single writing from Plato's hand not
in dialogue form, we may naturally take for a sincere version of the
actual words of Socrates; closer to them, we may think, than the Greek
record of spoken words however important, the speeches in Thucydides,
for instance, by the admission of Thucydides himself, was wont to be.
And this assumption is supported by internal evidence.  In that
unadorned language, in those harsh grammatic (or rather quite
ungrammatic) constructions we have surely the natural accent of one
speaking under strong excitement.  We might think, again, that the
Phaedo, purporting to record his subsequent discourse, is really no
more than such a record, but for a lurking suspicion, which hangs by
the fact that Plato, noted as an assistant at the trial, is expressly
stated by one of the speakers in the Dialogue to have been absent from
the dying scene of Socrates.  That speaker however was himself perhaps
the veracious reporter of those last words and acts; for there are
details in the Phaedo too pedestrian and common-place to be taken for
things of mere literary invention: the rubbing of the legs, for
instance, now released from the chain; the rather [78] uneasy
determination to be indifferent; the somewhat harsh committal of the
crudely lamenting wife and his child "to any one who will take the
trouble"--details, as one cannot but observe in passing, which leave
those famous hours, even for purely human, or say! pagan dignity and
tenderness, wholly incomparable to one sacred scene to which they have
sometimes been compared.

We shall be justified then, in the effort to give reality or truth to
our mental picture of Socrates, if we follow the lead of his own
supposed retrospect of his career in the Apology, as completed, and
explained to wholly sympathetic spirits, by the more intimate
discourses of the Phaedo.

He pleads to be excused if in making his defence he speaks after his
accustomed manner: not merely in home-spun phrase, that is to say, very
different from what is usually heard at least in those sophisticated
law-courts of Athens, nor merely with certain lapsing into his familiar
habit of dialogue, but with a tacit assumption, throughout his
arguments, of that logical realism which suggested the first outline of
Plato's doctrine of the "ideas."  Everywhere, with what is like a
physical passion for what is, what is true--as one engaged in a sort of
religious or priestly concentration of soul on what God really made and
meant us to know--he is driving earnestly, yet with method, at those
universal conceptions or definitions which serve to establish [79]
firmly the distinction, attained by so much intellectual labour,
between what is absolute and abiding, of veritable import therefore to
our reason, to the divine reason really resident in each one of us,
resident in, yet separable from, these our houses of clay--between
that, and what is only phenomenal and transitory, as being essentially
implicate with them.  He achieved this end, as we learn from Aristotle,
this power, literally, of "a criticism of life," by induction (epagg)+
by that careful process of enquiry into the facts of the matter
concerned, one by one (facts most often of conscience, of moral action
as conditioned by motive, and result, and the varying degrees of inward
light upon it) for which the fitting method is informal though not
unmethodical question and answer, face to face with average mankind, as
in those famous Socratic conversations, which again are the first rough
natural growth of Plato's so artistic written Dialogues.  The exclusive
preoccupation of Socrates with practical matter therein, his anxious
fixing of the sense of such familiar terms as just and good, for
instance, was part of that humble bearing of himself by which he was to
authenticate a claim to superior wisdom, forced upon him by nothing
less than divine authority, while there was something also in it of a
natural reaction against the intellectual ambition of his youth.  He
had gone to school eagerly, as he tells his friends in the [80] Phaedo,
in his last discourse, to a physical philosopher, then of great repute,
but to his own great disappointment.--

     In my youth he says I had a wonderful desire for the wisdom
     which people call natural science--peri physes historian.+
     It seemed to me a proud thing to know the causes of every matter:
     how it comes to be; ceases to be; why it is.  I lost my sight in
     this enquiry to the degree of un-learning what I had hitherto
     seemed to myself and others to know clearly enough.  But having
     heard one reading from a book written, as he said, by Anaxagoras,
     which said that it is Reason that arranges and is the cause of
     all things, I was delighted with this cause; and thought to
     myself, if this be so, then it does with each what may be best
     for it.  Thus considering, it was with joy I fancied I had found
     me a teacher about the cause--Anaxagoras: that he would show me
     for instance, first, whether the earth was round or flat; and
     then that it was best for it to be so: and if he made these
     points clear I was prepared to ask for no other sort of causes.
     Phaedo, 96.

Well!  Socrates proceeds to the great natural philosopher, and is
immensely discouraged to find him after all making very little use of
Reason in his explanation why natural things are thus and not
otherwise; explaining everything, rather, by secondary and mechanical
causes.  "It was as if," he concludes, "some one had undertaken to
prove that Socrates does everything through Reason; and had gone on to
show that it was because my body is constructed in a certain way, of
certain bones and muscles, that Socrates is now sitting here in the
prison, voluntarily awaiting death."

The disappointment of Socrates with the [81] spirit in which Anaxagoras
actually handled and applied that so welcome sapiential proposition
that Reason panta diakosmei, kai pantn aitios estin +--arranges and is
the cause of all things--is but an example of what often happens when
men seek an a posteriori justification of their instinctive
prepossessions.  Once for all he turns from useless, perhaps impious,
enquiries, into the material structure of the stars above him, or the
earth beneath his feet, from all physical enquiry into material things,
to the direct knowledge of man the cosmical order in man, as it may be
found by any one who, in good faith with himself, and with devout
attention, looks within.  In this precise sense it was that, according
to the old saying, Socrates brought philosophy down from heaven to
earth.  Montaigne, the great humanist, expands it.--"'Twas he who
brought again from heaven, where she lost her time, human wisdom, to
restore her to man with whom her most just and greatest business lies.
He has done human nature a great service," he adds, "in showing it how
much it can do of itself."  And a singular incident gave that piercing
study, that relentless exposure, of himself, and of others, for the
most part so unwelcome to them, a religious or mystic character.  He
has a "vocation" thus to proceed, has been literally "called," as he
understands, by the central religious authority of Greece.  His
seemingly invidious testing of men's pretensions [82] to know, is a
sacred service to the God of Delphi, which he dares not neglect.  And
his fidelity herein had in turn the effect of reinforcing for him, and
bringing to a focus, all the other rays of religious light cast at
random in the world about him, or in himself.

"You know Chaerephon," he says, "his eagerness about any matter he
takes up.  Well! once upon a time he went to Delphi, and ventured to
ask of the oracle whether any man living was wiser than I; and, amazing
as it seems, the Pythia answered that there was no one wiser than I."
Socrates must go in order, then, to every class of persons pre-eminent
for knowledge; to every one who seems to know more than he.  He found
them--the Athenian poets, for instance, the potters who made the vases
we admire, undeniably in possession of much delightful knowledge
unattained by him.  But one and all they were ignorant of the
limitations of their knowledge; and at last he concludes that the
oracle had but meant to say: "He indeed is the wisest of all men who
like Socrates is aware that he is really worth little or nothing in
respect of knowledge."  Such consciousness of ignorance was the proper
wisdom of man.

That can scarcely be a fiction.  His wholesome appeal then, everywhere,
from what seems, to what really is, is a service to the Delphic god,
the god of sanity.  To prove that the oracle had [83] been right after
all, improbable as it seemed, in the signal honour it had put upon him,
would be henceforward his proper business.  Committing him to a sort of
ironical humility towards others, at times seemingly petty and prosaic,
certainly very irritating, in regard to himself, in its source and
motive, his business in life as he conceived it was nothing less than a
divine possession.  He becomes therefore literally an enthusiast for
knowledge, for the knowledge of man; such knowledge as by a right
method of questioning, of self-questioning (the master's questioning
being after all only a kind of mid-wife's assistance, according to his
own homely figure) may be brought to birth in every human soul,
concerning itself and its experience; what is real, and stable, in its
apprehensions of Piety, Beauty, Justice, and the like, what is of
dynamic quality in them, as conveying force into what one does or
creates, building character, generating virtue.  Auto kath' hauto
ztein ti pot' estin aret+--to seek out what virtue is, itself, in and
by itself--there's the task.  And when we have found that, we shall
know already, or easily get to know, everything else about and about
it: "how we are to come by virtue," for instance.

Well! largely by knowing, says naturally the enthusiast for knowledge.
There is no good thing which knowledge does not comprehend--Mden estin
agathon ho ouk epistm periechei +--a strenuously [84] ascertained
knowledge however, painfully adjusted to other forms of knowledge which
may seem inconsistent with it, and impenetrably distinct from any kind
of complaisant or only half-attentive conjecture.  "One and the same
species in every place: whole and sound: one, in regard to, and
through, and upon, all particular instances of it: catholic"*: it will
be all this--the Virtue, for instance, which we must seek, as a hunter
his sustenance, seek and find and never lose again, through a survey of
all the many variable and merely relative virtues, which are but
relative, that is to say, "to every several act, and to each period of
life, in regard to each thing we have to do, in each one of us"--kath'
hekastn tn praxen, kai tn hlikin pros hekaston ergon, hekast
hmn --+ "That, about which I don't know what it is, how should I know
what sort of a thing it is"--ho m oida ti esti, ps an hopoion ge ti
eidein;+ what its poiottes,+ its qualities, are?  "Do you suppose that
one who does not know Meno, for example, at all, who he is, can know
whether he is fair and rich and well-born, or the reverse of all that?"
Yes! already for Socrates, we might say, to know what justice or Piety
or Beauty really is, will be like the knowledge of a person; only that,
as Aristotle carefully notes, his scrupulous habit of search for
universal, or catholic, definitions (kath' holou)+ was after all but
[85] an instrument for the plain knowledge of facts.  Strange! out of
the practical cautions of Socrates for the securing of clear and
correct and sufficient conceptions about one's actual experience, for
the attainment of a sort of thoroughly educated common-sense, came the
mystic intellectualism of Plato--Platonism, with all its hazardous
flights of soul.

A rich contributor to the philosophic consciousness of Plato, Socrates
was perhaps of larger influence still on the religious soul in him.  As
Plato accepted from the masters of Elea the theoretic principles of all
natural religion--the principles of a reasonable monotheism, so from
Socrates he derived its indispensable morality.  It was Socrates who
first of pagans comprised in one clear consciousness the authentic
rudiments of such natural religion, and gave them clear utterance.
Through him, Parmenides had conveyed to Plato the notion of a  "Perfect
Being," to brace and satisfy the abstracting intellect; but it was from
Socrates himself Plato had learned those correspondent practical
pieties, which tranquillise and re-assure the soul, together with the
genial hopes which cheer the great teacher on the day of his death.

Loyal to the ancient beliefs, the ancient usages, of the religion of
many gods which he had found all around him, Socrates pierces through
it to one unmistakable person, of perfect intelligence, power and
goodness, who takes note [86] of him.  In the course of his seventy
years he has adjusted that thought of the invisible to the general
facts and to many of the subtler complexities of man's experience in
the world of sight.  Sitivit anima mea, the Athenian philosopher might
say, in Deum, in Deum vivum, as he was known at Sion.  He has at least
measured devoutly the place, this way and that, which a religion of
infallible authority must fill; has already by implication concurred in
it; and in fact has his reward at this depressing hour, as the action
of the poison mounts slowly to the centre of his material existence.
He is more than ready to depart to what before one has really crossed
their threshold must necessarily seem the cold and empty spaces of the
world no bodily eye can ever look on.

But, he is asked, if the prospect be indeed so cheerful, at all events
for the just, why is it forbidden to seize such an advantage as death
must be by self-destruction?--Tois anthrpois, m hosion einai, autous
heatous eupoiein, all' allon dei menein euergetn.+  His consistent
piety straightway suggests the solution of that paradox: we are the
property, slaves, of the gods.  Now no slave has any sort of right to
destroy himself; to take a life that does not really belong to him.
Comfort himself and his friends, however, as he may, it does tax all
his resources of moral and physical courage to do what is at last
required of him: and it was something quite new, unseen [87] before in
Greece, inspiring a new note in literature--this attitude of Socrates
in the condemned cell, where, fulfilling his own prediction,
multitudes, of a wisdom and piety, after all, so different from his,
have ever since assisted so admiringly, this anticipation of the
Christian way of dying for an opinion, when, as Plato says simply, he
consumed the poison in the prison--to pharmakon epien en t desmtri.+
It was amid larger consolations, we must admit, that Christian heroes
did that kind of thing.  But bravery, you need hardly be reminded, was
ever one of the specially characteristic virtues of the pagan world--
loyalty even unto death.  It had been loyalty however hitherto to one's
country, one's home in the world, one's visible companions; not to a
wholly invisible claimant, in this way, upon one, upon one's self.

Socrates, with all his singleness of purpose, had been, as Alcibiades
suggested, by natural constitution a twofold power, an embodied
paradox.  The infinitely significant Socrates of Plato, and the quite
simple Socrates of Xenophon, may have been indeed the not incompatible
oppositions of a nature, from the influence of which, as a matter of
fact, there emerged on one hand the Cynic, on the other the Cyrenaic
School, embodying respectively those opposed austerities and amenities
of character, which, according to the temper of this or that disciple,
had seemed to predominate in their common master.  And so the courage
which declined to act as almost [88] any one else would have acted in
that matter of the legal appeal which might have mitigated the penalty
of death, bringing to its appropriate end a life whose main power had
been an unrivalled independence, was contrasted in Socrates,
paradoxically, with a genuine diffidence about his own convictions
which explains some peculiarities in his manner of teaching.  The
irony, the humour, for which he was famous--the unfailing humour which
some have found in his very last words--were not merely spontaneous
personal traits, or tricks of manner; but an essential part of the
dialectical apparatus, as affording a means of escape from
responsibility, convenient for one who has scruples about the fitness
of his own thoughts for the reception of another, doubts as to the
power of words to convey thoughts, such as he thinks cannot after all
be properly conveyed to another, but only awakened, or brought to birth
in him, out of himself,--who can tell with what distortions in that
secret place?  For we judge truth not by the intellect exclusively, and
on reasons that can be adequately embodied in propositions; but with
the whole complex man.  Observant therefore of the capricious results
of mere teaching, to the last he protests, dissemblingly, and with that
irony which is really one phase of the Socratic humour, that in his
peculiar function there have been in very deed neither teacher nor
learners.

[89] The voice, the sign from heaven, that "new deity" he was accused
of fabricating (his singularly profound sense of a mental phenomenon
which is probably not uncommon) held perhaps of the same characteristic
habit of mind.  It was neither the playful pretence which some have
supposed; nor yet an insoluble mystery; but only what happens naturally
to a really diffident spirit in great and still more in small matters
which at this or that taxing moment seem to usurp the determination of
great issues.  Such a spirit may find itself beset by an inexplicable
reluctance to do what would be most natural in the given circumstances.
And for a religious nature, apt to trace the divine assistance
everywhere, it was as if, in those perilous moments--well! as if one's
guardian angel held one back.  A quite natural experience took the
supernatural hue of religion; which, however, as being concerned now
and then with some circumstance in itself trifling, might seem to lapse
at times into superstition.

And as he was thus essentially twofold in character, so Socrates had to
contend against two classes of enemies.  "An offence" to the whole
tribe of Sophists, he was hated also by those who hated them, by the
good old men of Athens, whose conservatism finds its representative in
Aristophanes, and who saw in the Socratic challenge of first
principles, in that ceaseless testing of the origin and claims of what
all [90] honest people might seem to take for granted, only a further
development of the pernicious function of the Sophists themselves, by
the most subtly influential of them all.  If in the Apology he proves
that the fathers of sons had no proper locus standi against him, still,
in the actual conduct of his defence, as often in Plato's Dialogues,
there is (the candid reader cannot but admit it) something of
sophistry, of the casuist.  Claiming to be but a simple argument, the
Apology of Socrates moves sometimes circuitously, after the manner of
one who really has to make the worse appear the better reason (ton
htt logon kreitt poiein)+ and must needs use a certain kind of
artificial, or ingenious, or ad captandum arguments, such as would best
have been learned in the sophistic school.  Those young Athenians whom
he was thought to have corrupted of set purpose, he had not only
admired but really loved and understood; and as a consequence had
longed to do them real good, chiefly by giving them that interest in
themselves which is the first condition of any real power over others.
To make Meno, Polus, Charmides, really interested in himself, to help
him to the discovery of that wonderful new world here at home--in this
effort, even more than in making them interested in other people and
things, lay and still lies (it is no sophistical paradox!) the central
business of education.  Only, the very thoroughness of the sort of
self-knowledge he [91] promoted had in it something sacramental, so to
speak; if it did not do them good, must do them considerable harm;
could not leave them just as they were.  He had not been able in all
cases to expand  "the better self," as people say, in those he
influenced.  Some of them had really become very insolent questioners
of others, as also of a wholly legitimate authority within themselves;
and had but passed from bad to worse.  That fatal necessity had been
involved of coming to years of discretion.  His claim to have been no
teacher at all, to be irresponsible in regard to those who had in truth
been his very willing disciples, was but humorous or ironical; and as a
consequence there was after all a sort of historic justice in his
death.

     The fate of Socrates (says Hegel, in his peculiar manner) is
     tragic in the essential sense, and not merely in that super-
     ficial sense of the word according to which every misfortune
     is called 'tragic.'  In the latter sense, one might say of
     Socrates that because he was condemned to death unjustly his
     fate was tragic.  But in truth innocent suffering of that sort
     is merely pathetic, not tragic; inasmuch as it is not within
     the sphere of reason.  Now suffering--misfortune--comes within
     the sphere of reason, only if it is brought about by the free-
     will of the subject, who must be entirely moral and justifiable;
     as must be also the power against which that subject proceeds.
     This power must be no merely natural one, nor the mere will of
     a tyrant; because it is only in such case that the man is himself,
     so to speak, guilty of his misfortune.  In genuine tragedy, then,
     they must be powers both alike moral and justifiable, which, from
     this side and from that, come into collision; and such was the
     fate of Socrates.  His fate therefore is not merely personal, and
     as it were part of the romance of an individual: [92] it is the
     general fate, in all its tragedy--the tragedy of Athens, of
     Greece, which is therein carried out.  Two opposed Rights come
     forth: the one breaks itself to pieces against the other: in this
     way, both alike suffer loss; while both alike are justified the
     one towards the other: not as if this were right; that other
     wrong.  On the one side is the religious claim, the unconscious
     moral habit: the other principle, over against it, is the equally
     religious claim--the claim of the consciousness, of the reason,
     creating a world out of itself, the claim to eat of the tree of
     the knowledge of good and evil.  The latter remains the common
     principle of philosophy for all time to come.  And these are the
     two principles which come forth over against each other, in the
     life and in the philosophy of Socrates.  Geschichte der
     Philosophie, vol. ii. p. 102.

"I can easily conceive Socrates in the place of Alexander," says
Montaigne, again, "but Alexander in the place of Socrates I cannot";
and we may take that as typical of the immense credit of Socrates, even
with a vast number of people who have not really known much about him.
"For the sake of no long period of years," says Socrates himself, now
condemned to death--the few years for which a man of seventy is likely
to remain here--

     You will have a name, Men of Athens! and liability to reproach
     from those who desire to malign the city of Athens--that ye put
     Socrates to death, a wise man.  For in very truth they will
     declare me to have been wise--those who wish to discredit you--
     even though I be not.  Now had you waited a little while this
     thing would have happened for you in the course of nature.  For
     ye see my estate: that it is now far onward on the road of life,
     hard by death.  Apology, 38.

Plato, though present at the trial, was absent when Socrates "consumed
the poison in the [93] prison."  Prevented by sickness, as Cebes tells
us in the Phaedo, Plato would however almost certainly have heard from
him, or from some other of that band of disciples who assisted at the
last utterances of their master, the sincerest possible account of all
that was then said and done.  Socrates had used the brief space which
elapsed before the officers removed him to the place, "whither he must
go, to die" (hoi elthonta me dei tethnanai)+ to discourse with those who
still lingered in the court precisely on what are called "The four last
things."  Arrived at the prison a further delay awaited him, in
consequence (it was so characteristic of the Athenian people!) of a
religious scruple.  The ship of sacred annual embassy to Apollo at
Delos was not yet returned to Athens; and the consequent interval of
time might not be profaned by the death of a criminal.  Socrates
himself certainly occupies it religiously enough by a continuation of
his accustomed discourses, touched now with the deepening solemnity of
the moment.

The Phaedo of Plato has impressed most readers as a veritable record of
those last discourses of Socrates; while in the details of what then
happened, the somewhat prosaic account there given of the way in which
the work of death was done, we find what there would have been no
literary satisfaction in inventing; his indifferent treatment, for
instance, of the wife, who had not been very dutiful but was now in
violent [94] distress--treatment in marked contrast, it must be
observed again, with the dignified tenderness of a later scene, as
recorded in the Gospels.

An inventor, with mere literary effect in view, at this and other
points would have invented differently.  "The prison," says Cebes, the
chief disciple in the Phaedo, "was not far from the court-house; and
there we were used to wait every day till we might be admitted to our
master.  One morning we were assembled earlier than usual; for on the
evening before we heard that the ship was returned from Delos.  The
porter coming out bade us tarry till he should call us.  For, he said,
the Eleven are now freeing Socrates from his bonds, announcing to him
that he must die to-day."

They were very young men, we are told, who were with Socrates, and how
sweetly, kindly, approvingly, he listened to their so youthfully
sanguine discussion on the immortality of the soul.  For their sakes
rather than his own he is ready to treat further, by way of a
posteriori arguments, a belief which in himself is matter of invincible
natural prepossession.  In the court he had pleaded at the most for
suspended judgment on that question:--"If I claimed on any point to be
wiser than any one else it would be in this, that having no adequate
knowledge  of things in Hades so I do not fancy I know."  But, in the
privacy of these last hours, he is confident in his utterance on the
[95] subject which is so much in the minds of the youths around him;
his arguments like theirs being in fact very much of the nature of the
things poets write (poimata)+ or almost like those medicinable fictions
(pseud en pharmakou eidei)+ such as are of legitimate use by the
expert.  That the soul (beautiful Pythagorean thought!) is a harmony;
that there are reasons why this particular harmony should not cease,
like that of the lyre or the harp, with the destruction of the
instrument which produced it; why this sort of flame should not go out
with the upsetting of the lamp:--such are the arguments, sometimes
little better than verbal ones, which pass this way and that around the
death-bed of Socrates, as they still occur to men's minds.  For
himself, whichever way they tend, they come and go harmlessly, about an
immovable personal conviction, which, as he says, "came to me apart
from demonstration, with a sort of natural likelihood and fitness":
(Moi gegonen aneu apodeixes, meta eikotos tinos, kai euprepeias).+  The
formula of probability could not have been more aptly put.  It is one
of those convictions which await, it may be, stronger, better,
arguments than are forthcoming; but will wait for them with unfailing
patience.--"The soul therefore Cebes," since such provisional arguments
must be allowed to pass, "is something sturdy and strong (ischuron ti
estin)+ imperishable by accident or wear; and we shall really exist in
Hades."  Indulging a little [96] further the "poetry turned logic" of
those youthful assistants, Socrates too, even Socrates, who had always
turned away so persistently from what he thought the vanity of the eye,
just before the bodily eye finally closes, and his last moment being
now at hand, ascends to, or declines upon, the fancy of a quite visible
paradise awaiting him.--

     It is said that the world, if one gaze down on it from above,
     is to look on like those leathern balls of twelve pieces,
     variegated in divers colours, of which the colours here--those
     our painters use--are as it were samples.  There, the whole
     world is formed of such, and far brighter and purer than they;
     part sea-purple of a wonderful beauty; a part like gold; a part
     whiter than alabaster or snow; aye, composed thus of other
     colours also of like quality, of greater loveliness than ours--
     colours we have never seen.  For even those hollows in it, being
     filled with air and water, present a certain species of colour
     gleaming amid the diversity of the others; so that it presents
     one continuous aspect of varied hues.  Thus it is: and conform-
     ably tree and flower and fruit are put forth and grow.  The
     mountains again and the rocks, after the same manner, have a
     smoothness and transparency and colours lovelier than here.  The
     tiny precious stones we prize so greatly are but morsels of
     them--sards and jasper and emerald and the rest.  No baser kind
     of thing is to be found in that world, but finer rather.  The
     cause of which is that the rocks there are pure, not gnawed away
     and corrupted like ours by rot and brine, through the moistures
     which drain together here, bringing disease and deformity to
     rocks and earth as well as to living things.  There are many
     living creatures in the land besides men and women, some abiding
     inland, and some on the coasts of the air, as we by the sea,
     others in the islands amidst its waves; for, in a word, what the
     water of the sea is to us for our uses, that the air is to them.
     The blending of the seasons there is such that they have no
     sickness and come to years more numerous far than ours: while
     [97] for sight and scent and hearing and the like they stand as
     far from us, as air from water, in respect of purity, and the
     aether from air.  There are thrones moreover and temples of the
     gods among them, wherein in very deed the gods abide; voices
     and oracles and sensible apprehensions of them; and occasions
     of intercourse with their very selves.  The sun, the moon and
     the stars they see as they really are; and are blessed in all
     other matters agreeably thereto.  Phaedo, 110.

The great assertor of the abstract, the impalpable, the unseen, at any
cost, shows there a mastery of visual expression equal to that of his
greatest disciple.--Ah, good master! was the eye so contemptible an
organ of knowledge after all?

Plato was then about twenty-eight years old; a rich young man, rich
also in intellectual gifts; and what he saw and heard from and about
Socrates afforded the correction his opulent genius needed, and made
him the most serious of writers.  In many things he was as unlike as
possible to the teacher--rude and rough as some failure of his own old
sculptor's workshop--who might seem in his own person to have broken up
the harmonious grace of the Greek type, and carried people one step
into a world already in reaction against the easy Attic temper, a world
in which it might be necessary to go far below the surface for the
beauty of which those homely lips had discoursed so much.  Perhaps he
acted all the more surely as a corrective force on Plato, henceforward
an opponent of the [98] obviously successful mental habits of the day,
with an unworldliness which, a personal trait in Plato himself there
acquired, will ever be of the very essence of Platonism.--"Many are
called, but few chosen": Narthkophoroi men polloi, bakchoi de te
pauroi.+  He will have, as readers of The Republic know, a hundred
precepts of self-repression for others--the self-repression of every
really tuneable member of a chorus; and he begins by almost effacing
himself.  All that is best and largest in his own matured genius he
identifies with his master; and when we speak of Plato generally what
we are really thinking of is the Platonic Socrates.

NOTES

79. +Transliteration: epagg.  Liddell and Scott definition: "a
bringing on, to, or in . . . argument from induction."

80. +Transliteration: peri physes historian.  E-text editor's
translation: "inquiry into nature."  Plato, Phaedo 96a.

81. +Transliteration: panta diakosmei, kai pantn aitios estin.  Pater's
translation: "arranges and is the cause of all things."  Plato, Phaedo
97c, offers a close paraphrase of Anaxagoras' saying.

83. +Transliteration: Auto kath' hauto ztein ti pot' estin aret.
Pater's translation: "to seek out what virtue is, itself, in and by
itself."  Plato, Meno 100b.

83. +Transliteration: Mden estin agathon ho ouk epistm periechei.
Pater's translation: "There is no good thing which knowledge does not
comprehend."  Plato, Meno 87d.

84. *Tauton pantachou eidos--holon kai hygies--hen kata pantn, dia
pantn, epi pasi-kath' holou. Pater's translation: "One and the same
species in every place: whole and sound: one, in regard to, and
through, and upon, all particular instances of it: catholic."  Perhaps
Pater is combining phrases here; only the first phrase was locatable.
Plato, Meno 72d.

84. +Transliteration: kath' hekastn tn praxen, kai tn hlikin pros
hekaston ergon, hekast hmn.  Pater's translation: "to every several
act, and to each period of life, in regard to each thing we have to do,
in each one of us."  Plato, Meno 72a.

84. +Transliteration: ho m oida ti esti, ps an hopoion ge ti eidein.
Pater's translation: "That, about which I don't know what it is, how
should I know what sort of a thing it is."  Plato, Meno 71b.

84. +Transliteration: poiottes.  Pater's translation: "qualities."

84. +Transliteration: kath' holou.  Pater's translation: "universal, or
catholic, definitions;" the phrase might be translated, "in accordance
with the whole."

86. +Transliteration: Tois anthrpois, m hosion einai, autous heatous
eupoiein, all' allon dei menein euergetn.  Pater's translation: "why
is it forbidden to seize such an advantage as death must be by self-
destruction."  Plato, Phaedo 62a.

87. +Transliteration: to pharmakon epien en t desmtri.  Pater's
translation: "he consumed the poison in the prison."  Plato, Phaedo
57a.

90. +Transliteration: ton htt logon kreitt poiein.  Pater's
translation: "to make the worse appear the better reason."  Plato,
Apology 23d.

93. +Transliteration: hoi elthonta me dei tethnanai.  Pater's
translation: "whither he must go, to die."  The pronoun should be first
person--"whither I must go."  Plato, Apology 39e.

95. +Transliteration: poimata.  Liddell and Scott definition: "anything
made or done . . . a poetical work."

95. +Transliteration: pseud en pharmakou eidei.  Pater's translation:
"medicinable fictions."  Plato, Republic 389b contains a similar
phrase.

95. +Transliteration: Moi gegonen aneu apodeixes, meta eikotos tinos,
kai euprepeias.  Pater's translation: "came to me apart from
demonstration, with a sort of natural likelihood and fitness."  Plato,
Phaedo 92c.

95. +Transliteration: ischuron ti estin.  Pater's translation: "is
something sturdy and strong."  Plato, Phaedo 95c.

98. +Transliteration: Narthkophoroi men polloi, bakchoi de te pauroi.
Pater's translation: "Many are called, but few chosen."  Plato, Phaedo,
69c.



CHAPTER 5: PLATO AND THE SOPHISTS

[99] "SOPHIST," professional enemy of Socrates:--it became, chiefly
through the influence of Plato, inheriting, expanding, the preferences
and antipathies of his master, a bad name.  Yet it had but indicated,
by a quite natural verbal formation, the class of persons through whom,
in the most effectual manner, supply met demand, the demand for
education, asserted by that marvellously ready Greek people, when the
youthful mind in them became suddenly aware of the coming of virile
capacity, and they desired to be made by rules of art better speakers,
better writers and accountants, than any merely natural, unassisted
gifts, however fortunate, could make them.  While the peculiar
religiousness of Socrates had induced in him the conviction that he was
something less than a wise man, a philosopher only, a mere seeker after
such wisdom as he might after all never attain, here were the
sophistai,+ the experts--wise men, who proposed to make other people as
wise as themselves, wise in that sort of wisdom [100] regarding which
we can really test others, and let them test us, not with the merely
approximate results of the Socratic method, but with the exactness we
may apply to processes understood to be mechanical, or to the
proficiency of quite young students (such as in fact the Sophists were
dealing with) by those examinations which are so sufficient in their
proper place.  It had been as delightful as learning a new game, that
instruction, in which you could measure your daily progress by
brilliant feats of skill.  Not only did the parents of those young
students pay readily large sums for their instruction in what it was
found so useful to know, above all in the art of public speaking, of
self-defence, that is to say, in democratic Athens where one's personal
status was become so insecure; but the young students themselves felt
grateful for their institution in what told so immediately on their
fellows; for help in the comprehension of the difficult sentences of
another, or the improvement of one's own; for the accomplishments which
enabled them in that busy competitive world to push their fortunes each
one for himself a little further, and quite innocently.  Of course they
listened.

"Love not the world!"--that, on the other hand, was what Socrates had
said, or seemed to say; though in truth he too meant only to teach them
how by a more circuitous but surer way to [101] possess themselves of
it.  And youth, naturally curious and for the most part generous,
willing to undergo much for the mere promise of some good thing it can
scarcely even imagine, had been ready to listen to him too; the sons of
rich men most often, by no means to the dissatisfaction of Socrates
himself, though he never touched their money; young men who had amplest
leisure for the task of perfecting their souls, in a condition of
religious luxury, as we should perhaps say.  As was evident in the
court-house at the trial of the great teacher, to the eyes of older
citizens who had not come under his personal influence, there had been
little to distinguish between Socrates and his professional rivals.
Socrates in truth was a Sophist; but more than a Sophist.  Both alike
handled freely matters that to the fathers had seemed beyond question;
encouraged what seemed impious questioning in the sons; had set "the
hearts of the sons against the fathers"; and some instances there were
in which the teaching of Socrates had been more conspicuously ruinous
than theirs.  "If you ask people at Athens," says Socrates in the Meno,
"how virtue is to be attained, they will laugh in your face and say
they don't so much as know what virtue is."  And who was responsible
for that?  Certainly that Dialogue, proposing to discover the essential
nature of virtue, by no means re-establishes one's old prepossessions
about it in the vein of [102] Simonides, or Pindar, or one's elders.
Sophist, and philosopher; Protagoras, and Socrates; so far, their
effect was the same:--to the horror of fathers, to put the minds of the
sons in motion regarding matters it were surely best to take as settled
once and for ever.  What then after all was the insuperable difference
between Socrates and those rival teachers, with whom he had
nevertheless so much in common, bent like him so effectively, so
zealously, on that new study of man, of human nature and the moral
world, to the exclusion of all useless "meteoric or subterranean
enquiries" into things.  As attractive as himself to ingenuous youth,
uncorrupt surely in its early intentions, why did the Sophists seem to
Socrates to be so manifestly an instrument of its corruption?

"The citizen of Athens," observed that great Athenian statesman of the
preceding age, in whom, as a German philosopher might say, the mobile
soul of Athens became conscious,--"The citizen of Athens seems to me to
present himself in his single person to the greatest possible variety
(pleista eid)+ of thought and action, with the utmost degree of
versatility."  As we saw, the example of that mobility, that daring
mobility, of character has seemed to many the special contribution of
the Greek people to advancing humanity.  It was not however of the
Greek people in general that Pericles was speaking at the beginning of
the Peloponnesian [103] war, but of Athens in particular; of Athens,
that perfect flower of Ionian genius, in direct contrast to, and now in
bitter rivalry with, Sparta, the perfect flower of the Dorian genius.
All through Greek history, as we also saw, in connexion with Plato's
opposition to the philosophy of motion, there may be traced, in every
sphere of the activity of the Greek mind, the influence of those two
opposing tendencies:--the centrifugal and the centripetal tendencies,
as we may perhaps not too fancifully call them.

There is the centrifugal, the irresponsible, the Ionian or Asiatic,
tendency; flying from the centre, working with little forethought
straight before it in the development of every thought and fancy;
throwing itself forth in endless play of undirected imagination;
delighting in colour and brightness, moral or physical; in beautiful
material, in changeful form everywhere, in poetry, in music, in
architecture and its subordinate crafts, in philosophy itself.  In the
social and political order it rejoices in the freest action of local
and personal influences: its restless versatility drives it towards the
assertion of the principles of individualism, of separatism--the
separation of state from state, the maintenance of local religions, the
development of the individual in that which is most peculiar and
individual in him.  Shut off land-wards from the primitive sources of
those many elements it was to compose anew, shut off from all the rest
of the world, to [104] which it presented but one narrow entrance
pierced through that rock of Tempe, so narrow that "in the opinion of
the ancients it might be defended by a dozen men against all comers,"
it did recompose or fuse those many diverse elements into one
absolutely original type.  But what variety within!  Its very claim was
in its grace of movement, its freedom and easy happiness, its lively
interests, the variety of its gifts to civilisation; but its weakness
is self-evident, and was what had made the political unity of Greece
impossible.  The Greek spirit!--it might have become a hydra, to use
Plato's own figure, a monster; the hand developing hideously into a
hundred hands, or heads.

This inorganic, this centrifugal, tendency, Plato was desirous to cure
by maintaining over against it the Dorian influence of a severe
simplification everywhere, in society, in culture, in the very physical
nature of man.  An enemy everywhere, though through acquired principle
indeed rather than by instinct, to variegation, to what is cunning, or
"myriad-minded" (as we say of Shakespeare, as Plato thinks of Homer) he
sets himself in mythology, in literature, in every kind of art, in the
art of life, as if with conscious metaphysical opposition to the
metaphysic of Heraclitus, to enforce the ideal of a sort of Parmenidean
abstractness, and monotony or calm.

This, perhaps exaggerated, ideal of Plato is [105] however only the
exaggeration of that salutary, strictly European tendency, which,
finding human mind, the human reason cool and sane, to be the most
absolutely real and precious thing in the world, enforces everywhere
the impress of its reasonable sanity; its candid reflexions upon things
as they really are; its sense of logical proportion.  It is that
centripetal tendency, again, which links the individual units together,
states to states, one period of organic growth to another, under the
reign of a strictly composed, self-conscious order, in the universal
light of the understanding.

Whether or not this temper, so clearly traceable as a distinct rival
influence in the course of Greek development, was indeed the peculiar
gift of the Dorian race, certainly that race, as made known to us
especially in Lacedaemon, is the best illustration of it, in its love
of order, of that severe composition everywhere, of which the Dorian
style of architecture is as it were a material symbol, in its constant
aspiration after what is dignified and earnest, as exemplified most
evidently in the religion of its preference, the religion of Apollo.

Now the key to Plato's view of the Sophists, Gorgias, Protagoras,
Hippias, Prodicus, with their less brilliant followers--chosen
educators of the public--is that they do but fan and add fuel to the
fire in which Greece, as they wander [106] like ardent missionaries
about it, is flaming itself away.  Teaching in their large,
fashionable, expensive schools, so triumphantly well, the arts one
needed most in so busy an age, they were really developing further and
reinforcing the ruinous fluidity of the Greek, and especially of the
Athenian people, by turning it very adroitly into a conscious method, a
practical philosophy, an art of life itself, in which all those
specific arts would be but subsidiary--an all-supplementing ars artium,
a master-art, or, in depreciatory Platonic mood one might say, an
artifice, or, cynically, a trick.  The great sophist was indeed the
Athenian public itself, Athens, as the willing victim of its own gifts,
its own flamboyancy, well-nigh worn out now by the mutual friction of
its own parts, given over completely to hazardous political experiment
with the irresponsibility which is ever the great vice of democracy,
ever ready to float away anywhither, to misunderstand, or forget, or
discredit, its own past.--

     Or do you too hold like the many (asks Socrates in the sixth
     book of The Republic) that a certain number are corrupted
     by sophists in their youth; and that certain sophists,
     irresponsible persons, corrupt them to any extent worth noting;
     and not rather that those who say these things are the greatest
     sophists; that they train to perfection, and turn out both old
     and young, men and women, just as they choose them to be?--When,
     pray?  He asked.--When seated together in their thousands at the
     great assemblies, or in the law-courts, or the theatres, or the
     camp, or any other common gathering of the public, with much
     noise the majority praise this and blame [107] that in what is
     said and done, both alike in excess, shouting and clapping; and
     the very rocks too and the place in which they are, echoing
     around, send back redoubled that clamour of praise and blame.
     In such case, what heart as they say, what heart, think you,
     can the young man keep? or what private education he may have
     had hold out for him that it be not over-flooded by praise or
     blame like that, and depart away, borne down the stream,
     whithersoever that may carry it, and that he pronounce not
     the same thing as they fair or foul; and follow the same ways
     as they; and become like them?  Republic, 492.+

The veritable sophist then, the dynamic sophist, was the Athenian
public of the day; those ostensible or professional Sophists being not
so much its intellectual directors as the pupils or followers of it.
They did but make it, as the French say, abound the more in its own
sense, like the keeper (it is Plato's own image) of some wild beast,
which he knows how to command by a well-considered obedience to all its
varying humours.  If the Sophists are partly the cause they are still
more the effect of the social environment.  They had discovered, had
ascertained with much acuteness, the actual momentum of the society
which maintained them, and they meant only, by regulating, to maintain
it.  Protagoras, the chief of Sophists, had avowedly applied to ethics
the physics or metaphysics of Heraclitus.  And now it was as if the
disintegrating Heraclitean fire had taken hold on actual life, on men's
very thoughts, on the emotions and the will.

That so faulty natural tendency, as Plato holds [108] it to be, in the
world around them, they formulate carefully as its proper conscious
theory: a theory how things must, nay, ought, to be.  "Just that," they
seem to say--"Just that versatility, that mutable spirit, shall become
by adoption the child of knowledge, shall be carefully nurtured,
brought to great fortune.  We'll make you, and your thoughts, as fluid,
as shifty, as things themselves: will bring you, like some perfectly
accomplished implement, to this carrire ouverte, this open quarry, for
the furtherance of your personal interests in the world."  And if old-
fashioned principle or prejudice be found in the way, who better than
they could instruct one, not how to minimise, or violate it--that was
not needed, nor perhaps desirable, regarding what was so useful for the
control of others--not that; but, to apply the intellectual solvent to
it, in regard to one's self?  "It will break up,--this or that ethical
deposit in your mind, Ah! very neatly, very prettily, and disappear,
when exposed to the action of our perfected method.  Of credit with the
vulgar as such, in the solitary chamber of the aristocratic mind such
presuppositions, prejudices or principles, may be made very soon to
know their place."

Yes! says Plato (for a moment we may anticipate what is at least the
spirit of his answer) but there are some presuppositions after all,
which it will make us very vulgar to have dismissed from us.  "There
are moreover," [109] those others proceed to say, "teachers of
persuasion (peithous didaskaloi)+ who impart skill in popular and
forensic oratory; and so by fair means or by unfair we shall gain our
ends."  It is with the dmos,+ with the vulgar, insubordinate, tag-rag
of one's own nature--how to rule that, by obeying it--that these
professors of rhetoric begin.  They are still notwithstanding the only
teachers of morals ingenuous Greece is aware of; and wisdom, as seems
likely, "must die with them!"--

     Some very small number then (says the Platonic Socrates) is
     left, of those who in worthy fashion hold converse with
     philosophy: either, it may be, some soul of in-born worth and
     well brought up, to which it has happened to be exiled in a
     foreign land, holding to philosophy by a tie of nature, and
     through lack of those who will corrupt it; or when it may
     chance that a great soul comes to birth in an insignificant
     state, to the politics of which it gives no heed, because it
     thinks them despicable: perhaps a certain fraction also, of
     good parts, may come to philosophy from some other craft,
     through a just contempt of that.  The bridle too of our
     companion Theages has a restraining power.  For in the case
     of Theages also, all the other conditions were in readiness
     to his falling away from philosophy; but the nursing of his
     sickly body, excluding him from politics, keeps him back.  Our
     own peculiarity is not worth speaking of--the sign from heaven!
     for I suppose it has occurred to scarce anyone before.  And so,
     those who have been of this number, and have tasted how sweet
     and blessed the possession is; and again, having a full view
     of the folly of the many, and that no one, I might say, effects
     any sound result in what concerns the state, or is an ally in
     whose company one might proceed safe and sound to the help of
     the just, but that, like a man falling among wild beasts,
     neither willing to share their evil deeds, nor sufficient by
     himself to resist the whole fierce band, flung away before he
     shall have done any service [110] to the city or to his own
     friends, he would become useless both to himself and to others:
     taking all this into consideration, keeping silence and doing
     his own business, as one standing aside under a hedge in some
     storm of dust and spray beneath a driven wind, seeing those
     about him replete with lawlessness, he is content if by any
     means, pure from injustice and unholy deeds, himself shall
     live through his life here, and in turn make his escape with
     good hope, in cheerful and kindly mood.  (What long sentences
     Plato writes!)  Yet in truth, he said, he would make his escape
     after not the least of achievements.--Nor yet the greatest, I
     observed, because he did not light upon the polity fitted for
     him: for, in that fitting polity, himself will grow to
     completer stature, and, together with what belongs to him, he
     will be the saviour also of the commonwealth.  Republic, 496.+

Over against the Sophists, and the age which has sophisticated them, of
which they are the natural product, Plato, being himself of a genius
naturally rich, florid, complex, excitable, but adding to the utmost
degree of Ionian sensibility an effectual desire towards the Dorian
order and asksis, asserts everywhere the principle of outline, in
political and moral life; in the education which is to fit men for it;
in the music which is one half of that education, in the philosophy
which is its other half--the "philosophy of the ideas," of those
eternally fixed outlines of our thought, which correspond to, nay, are
actually identical with, the eternally fixed outlines of things
themselves.  What the difference (difference in regard to continuity
and clearness) really is between the conditions of mind, in which
respectively the sophistic process, and the genuinely philosophical or
dialectic process, as [111] conceived by Plato, leave us, is well
illustrated by the peculiar treatment of Justice, its proper definition
or idea, in The Republic.  Justice (or Righteousness, as we say, more
largely) under the light of a comprehensive experience of it,
carefully, diligently, adjusted to the nature of man on the one hand,
of society on the other, becomes in the fourth book of The Republic, to
ta hautou prattein+--to ta hautou prattein.+  There, then, is the eternal
outline of Righteousness or Justice as it really is, equally clear and
indefectible at every point; a definition of it which can by no
supposition become a definition of anything else; impenetrable, not to
be traversed, by any possible definition of Injustice; securing an
essential value to its possessor, independently of all falsities of
appearance; and leaving justice, as it really is in itself, unaffected
even by phenomena so misrepresentative of it as to deceive the very
gods, or many good men, as happened pre-eminently in the case of
Socrates.

[112] Here then is the reply of the Platonic Socrates to the challenge
that he should prove himself master of a more certain philosophy than
that of the people, as represented by the old gnomic poet Simonides,
"whom it is hard to disbelieve," (sophos gar kai theios anr)+ on the
one hand; than that of the Sophists on the other, as represented by
Thrasymachus.  "Show us not only that justice is a better thing than
Injustice; but, by doing what (alla ti poiousa)+ to the soul of its
possessor, each of them respectively, in and by itself (haut di'
hautn)+ even if men and gods alike mistake it for its contrary, is
still the one a good thing, the other a bad one."

But note for a few moments the precise treatment of the idea of Justice
in the first book of The Republic.  Sophistry and common sense are
trying their best to apprehend, to cover or occupy, a certain space, as
the exact area of Justice.  And what happens with each proposed
definition in turn is, that it becomes, under conceivable
circumstances, a definition of Injustice: not that, in practice, a
confusion between the two is therefore likely; but that the intellect
remains unsatisfied of the theoretic validity of the distinction.

Now that intellectual situation illustrates the sense in which
sophistry is a reproduction of the Heraclitean flux.  The old
Heraclitean physical theory presents itself as a natural basis for the
moral, the social, dissolution, which the sophistical [113] movement
promotes.  But what a contrast to it, in the treatment of Justice, of
the question, What Justice is? in that introductory book of The
Republic.  The first book forms in truth an eristic, a destructive or
negative, Dialogue (such as we have other examples of) in which the
whole business might have concluded, prematurely, with an exposure of
the inadequacy, alike of common-sense as represented by Simonides, and
of a sophisticated philosophy as represented by Thrasymachus, to define
Justice.  Note, however, in what way, precisely.  That it is Just, for
instance, to restore what one owes (to ta opheilomena apodidonai)+ might
pass well enough for a general guide to right conduct; and the
sophistical judgment that Justice is "The interest of the stronger" is
not more untrue than the contrary paradox that "Justice is a plot of
the weak against the strong."

It is, then, in regard to the claims of Justice, not so much on
practice, as on the intellect, in its demand for a clear theory of
practice, that those definitions fail.  They are failures because they
fail to distinguish absolutely, ideally, as towards the intellect, what
is, from what is not.  To Plato, for whom, constitutionally, and ex
hypothesi, what can be clearly thought is the precise measure of what
really is, if such a thought about Justice--absolutely inclusive and
exclusive--is, after all our efforts, not to be ascertained, this can
only be, because Justice is not [114] a real thing, but only an empty
or confused name.

Now the Sophist and the popular moralist, in that preliminary attempt
to define the nature of Justice--what is right, are both alike trying,
first in this formula, then in that, to occupy, by a thought, and by a
definition which may convey that thought into the mind of another--to
occupy, or cover, a certain area of the phenomena of experience, as the
Just.  And what happens thereupon is this, that by means of a certain
kind of casuistry, by the allegation of certain possible cases of
conduct, the whole of that supposed area of the Just is occupied by
definitions of Injustice, from this centre or that.  Justice therefore-
-its area, the space of experience which it covers, dissolves away,
literally, as the eye is fixed upon it, like Heraclitean water: it is
and is not.  And if this, and the like of this, is to the last all that
can be known or said of it, Justice will be no current coin, at least
to the acute philosophic mind.  But has some larger philosophy perhaps
something more to say of it? and the power of defining an area, upon
which no definition of Injustice, in any conceivable case of act or
feeling, can infringe?  That is the question upon which the essential
argument of The Republic starts--upon a voyage of discovery.  It is
Plato's own figure.

There, clearly enough, may be seen what the difference, the difference
of aim, between Socrates [115] and the Sophists really was, amid much
that they had in common, as being both alike distinguished from that
older world of opinion of which Simonides is the mouthpiece.

The quarrel of Socrates with the Sophists was in part one of those
antagonisms which are involved necessarily in the very conditions of an
age that has not yet made up its mind; was in part also a mere rivalry
of individuals; and it might have remained in memory only as a matter
of historical interest.  It has been otherwise.  That innocent word
"Sophist" has survived in common language, to indicate some constantly
recurring viciousness, in the treatment of one's own and of other
minds, which is always at variance with such habits of thought as are
really worth while.  There is an every-day "sophistry," of course,
against which we have all of us to be on our guard--that insincerity of
reasoning on behalf of sincere convictions, true or false in themselves
as the case may be, to which, if we are unwise enough to argue at all
with each other, we must all be tempted at times.  Such insincerity
however is for the most part apt to expose itself.  But there is a more
insidious sophistry of which Plato is aware; and against which he
contends in the Protagoras, and again still more effectively in the
Phaedrus; the closing pages of which discover the essential point of
that famous quarrel between the Sophists and Socrates or Plato, in
regard to a matter which is [116] of permanent interest in itself, and
as being not directly connected with practical morals is unaffected by
the peculiar prejudices of that age.  Art, the art of oratory, in
particular, and of literary composition,--in this case, how one should
write or speak really inflammatory discourses about love, write love-
letters, so to speak, that shall really get at the heart they're meant
for--that was a matter on which the Sophists had thought much
professionally.  And the debate introduced in the Phaedrus regarding
the secret of success in proposals of love or friendship turns properly
on this: whether it is necessary, or even advantageous, for one who
would be a good orator, or writer, a poet, a good artist generally, to
know, and consciously to keep himself in contact with, the truth of his
subject as he knows or feels it; or only with what other people,
perhaps quite indolently, think, or suppose others to think, about it.
And here the charge of Socrates against those professional teachers of
the art of rhetoric comes to be, that, with much superficial aptitude
in the conduct of the matter, they neither reach, nor put others in the
way of reaching, that intellectual ground of things (of the
consciousness of love for instance, when they are to open their lips,
and presumably their souls, about that) in true contact with which
alone can there be a real mastery in dealing with them.  That you
yourself must have an inward, carefully ascertained, measured,
instituted hold [117] over anything you are to convey with any real
power to others, is the truth which the Platonic Socrates, in strongly
convinced words, always reasonable about it, formulates, in opposition
to the Sophists' impudently avowed theory and practice of the
superficial, as such.  Well! we all always need to be set on our guard
against theories which flatter the natural indolence of our minds.

"We proposed then just now," says Socrates in the Phaedrus, "to
consider the theory of the way in which one would or would not write or
speak well."--"Certainly!"--"Well then, must there not be in those who
are to speak meritoriously, an understanding well acquainted with the
truth of the things they are to speak about?"--"Nay!" answers Phaedrus,
in that age of sophistry, "It is in this way I have heard about it:--
that it is not necessary for one who would be a master of rhetoric to
learn what really is just, for instance; but rather what seems just to
the multitude who are to give judgment: nor again what is good or
beautiful; but only what seems so to them.  For persuasion comes of the
latter; by no means of a hold upon the truth of things."

Whether or not the Sophists were quite fairly chargeable with that sort
of "inward lie," just this, at all events, was in the judgment of Plato
the essence of sophistic vice.  With them [118] art began too
precipitately, as mere form without matter; a thing of disconnected
empiric rules, caught from the mere surface of other people's
productions, in congruity with a general method which everywhere
ruthlessly severed branch and flower from its natural root--art from
one's own vivid sensation or belief.  The Lacedaemonian (ho Lakn)+
Plato's favourite scholar always, as having that infinite patience
which is the note of a sincere, a really impassioned lover of anything,
says, in his convinced Lacedaemonian way, that a genuine art of speech
(tou legein etumos techn)+ unless one be in contact with truth, there
neither is nor can be.  We are reminded of that difference between
genuine memory, and mere haphazard recollection, noted by Plato in the
story he tells so well of the invention of writing in ancient Egypt.--
It might be doubted, he thinks, whether genuine memory was encouraged
by that invention.  The note on the margin by the inattentive reader to
"remind himself," is, as we know, often his final good-bye to what it
should remind him of.  Now this is true of all art: Logn ara technn,
ho tn altheian m eids, doxas te tethreuks, geloion tina kai
atexnon parexetai.+ --It is but a kind of bastard art of mere words
(texn atexnos)+ that he will have who does not know the truth of
things, but has tried to hunt out what other people think about it.
"Conception," observed an intensely personal, deeply stirred, poet and
artist of our own generation: [119] "Conception, fundamental brainwork,-
-that is what makes the difference, in all art."

Against all pretended, mechanically communicable rules of art then,
against any rule of literary composition, for instance, unsanctioned by
the facts, by a clear apprehension of the facts, of that experience,
which to each one of us severally is the beginning, if it be not also
the end, of all knowledge, against every merely formal dictate (their
name is legion with practising Sophists of all ages) Peri brachylogias,
kai eleeinologias, kai deinses,+ concerning freedom or precision,
figure, emphasis, proportion of parts and the like, exordium and
conclusion:--against all such the Platonic Socrates still protests,
"You know what must be known before harmony can be attained, but not
yet the laws of harmony itself,"--ta pro tragdias,+ Sophocles would
object in like case, ta pro tragdias, all' ou tragika.+  Given the
dynamic Sophoclean intention or conviction, and the irresistible law of
right utterance, (anank logographik)+ how one must write or speak,
will make itself felt; will assuredly also renew many an old precept,
as to how one shall write or speak, learned at school.  To speak pros
doxan+ only, as towards mere unreasoned opinion, might do well enough in
the law-courts with people, who (as is understood in that case) do not
really care very much about justice itself, desire only that a friend
should be acquitted, or an enemy convicted, irrespectively of it; but
[120]

For the essence of all artistic beauty is expression, which cannot be
where there's really nothing to be expressed; the line, the colour, the
word, following obediently, and with minute scruple, the conscious
motions of a convinced intelligible soul.  To make men interested in
themselves, as being the very ground of all reality for them, la vraie
vrit, as the French say:--that was the essential function of the
Socratic method: to flash light into the house within, its many
chambers, its memories and associations, upon its inscribed and
pictured walls.  Fully occupied there, as with his own essential
business in his own home, the young man would become, of course,
proportionately less interested, less meanly interested, in what was
superficial, in the mere outsides, of other people and their
occupations.  With the true artist indeed, with almost every expert,
all knowledge, of almost every kind, tells, is attracted into, and duly
charged with, the force of what [121] may be his leading apprehension.
And as the special function of all speech as a fine art is the control
of minds (psychaggia)+ it is in general with knowledge of the soul of
man--with a veritable psychology, with as much as possible as we can
get of that--that the writer, the speaker, must be chiefly concerned,
if he is to handle minds not by mere empiric routine, trib monon, kai
empeiria alla techn,+ but by the power of veritable fine art.  Now such
art, such theory, is not "to be caught with the left hand," as the
Greek phrase went; and again, chalepa ta kala.+  We have no time to hear
in English Plato's clever specimens of the way in which people would
write about love without success.  Let us rather hear himself on that
subject, in his own characteristic mood of conviction.--

     Try! she said (a certain Sibylline woman namely, from whose
     lips Socrates in the Symposium is supposed to quote what follows)
     Try to apply your mind as closely as possible to what I am going
     to say.  For he who has been led thus far in the discipline of
     love, beholding beautiful objects in the right order, coming now
     towards the end of the doctrine of love, will on a sudden behold
     a beauty wonderful in its nature:--that, Socrates! towards which
     indeed the former exercises were all designed; being first of all
     ever existent; having neither beginning nor end; neither growing
     or fading away; and then, not beautiful in one way, unbeautiful
     in another; beautiful now, but not then; beautiful in this
     relation, unlovely in that; to some, but not to others.  Nor
     again will that beauty appear to him to be beautiful as a face or
     hands or anything else that belongs to the body; nor as any
     kind of reasoning or science; nor as being resident in anything
     else, as in a living creature or the earth or the sky or any
     other [122] thing; but as being itself by itself, ever in a
     single form with itself; all other beautiful things so
     participating in it, that while they begin and cease to be, that
     neither becomes more nor less nor suffers any other change.
     Whenever, then, anyone, beginning from things here below, through
     a right practice of love, ascending, begins to discern that other
     beauty, he will almost have reached the end.  For this in truth
     is the right method of proceeding towards the doctrine of love,
     or of being conducted therein by another,--beginning from these
     beautiful objects here below ever to be going up higher, with
     that other beauty in view; using them as steps of a ladder;
     mounting from the love of one fair person to the love of two;
     and from the love of two to the love of all; and from the love
     of beautiful persons to the love of beautiful employments--kala
     epitdeumata+ (that means being a soldier, or a priest, or a
     scholar) and from the love of beautiful employments to the love
     of beautiful kinds of knowledge; till he passes from degrees of
     knowledge to that knowledge which is the knowledge of nothing
     else save the absolute Beauty itself, and knows it at length as
     in itself it really is.  At this moment of life, dear Socrates!
     said the Mantinean Sibyl, if at any moment, man truly lives,
     beholding the absolute beauty--the which, so you have once seen
     it, will appear beyond the comparison of gold, or raiment, or
     those beautiful young persons, seeing whom now, like many another,
     you are so overcome that you are ready, beholding those beautiful
     persons and associating ever with them, if it were possible,
     neither to eat nor drink but only to look into their eyes and
     sit beside them.  What then, she asked, suppose we? if it were
     given to any one to behold the absolute beauty, in its clearness,
     its pureness, its unmixed essence; not replete with flesh and
     blood and colours and other manifold vanity of this mortal life;
     but if he were able to behold that divine beauty (monoeides)+
     simply as it is.  Do you think, she said, that life would be a
     poor thing to one whose eyes were fixed on that; seeing that,
     (h dei)+ with the organ through which it must be seen, and
     communing with that?  Do you not think rather, she asked, that
     here alone it will be his, seeing the beautiful with that through
     which it may be seen (namely with the imaginative reason, ho
     nous+) to beget no mere phantasms of virtue, as it is no phantom
     he [123] apprehends, but the true virtue, as he embraces what is
     true?  And having begotten virtue (virtue is the child that will
     be born of this mystic intellectual commerce, or connubium,
     of the imaginative reason with ideal beauty) and reared it, he
     will become dear to God, and if any man may be immortal he will
     be.  Symposium, 210.+

The essential vice of sophistry, as Plato conceived it, was that for it
no real things existed.  Real things did exist for Plato, things that
were "an end in themselves"; and the Platonic Socrates was right:--
Plato has written so well there, because he was no scholar of the
Sophists as he understood them, but is writing of what he really knows.

NOTES

99. +Transliteration: sophistai.  Liddell and Scott definition: "at
Athens, one who professed to make men wise."

102. +Transliteration: pleista eid.  Pater's translation: "the greatest
possible variety."  Pater refers to the Funeral Oration given by
Pericles to commemorate the Athenians who, to date, had died in the
Peloponnesian War.  Thucydides, The Peloponnesian War 2.41.1.

107. +Plato, Republic 492.

109. +Transliteration: peithous didaskaloi.  Pater's translation:
"teachers of persuasion."  Plato, Republic 365d.

109. +Transliteration: dmos.  Liddell and Scott definition: "the common
people."

110. +Plato, Republic 496.

111. +Transliteration: to ta hautou prattein.  Pater's translation: "The
doing, by every part . . . of its own proper business therein."  The
translation elaborates on the original, but captures its meaning
accurately.  Plato, Republic 433a-b.

111. +Transliteration: to ta hautou prattein.  Pater's translation: "The
doing, by every part . . . of its own proper business therein."  Plato,
Republic 433a-b.

112. +Transliteration: sophos gar kai theios anr.  E-text editor's
translation: "for he was a wise and excellent man."  Plato, Republic
331e.

112. +Transliteration: alla ti poiousa.  Pater's translation: "but, by
doing what. . ."  Plato, Republic 367b.

112. +Transliteration: haut di' hautn.  Pater's translation: "in and
by itself."  Plato, Republic 367e.

113. +Transliteration: to ta opheilomena apodidonai.  Pater's
translation: "to restore what one owes."  Plato, Republic 331e and
332a.

118. +Transliteration: ho Lakn.  Liddell and Scott definition: "The
Lacedaemonian [i.e., Spartan]."

118. +Transliteration: tou legein etumos techn.  Pater's translation:
"a genuine art of speech."  Plato, Phaedrus 260e.

118. +Transliteration: Logn ara technn, ho tn altheian m eids,
doxas te tethreuks, geloion tina kai atexnon parexetai.  E-text
editor's translation: "In the art of speaking, therefore, the person
who does not know the truth, who has sought out only the opinions of
others, will come by nothing better than a kind of unskilled jesting."
Plato, Phaedrus 262c.

118. +Transliteration: texn atexnos.  Pater's translation: "[a]
bastard art of mere words."  Plato, Phaedrus 260e.

119. +Transliteration: Peri brachylogias, kai eleeinologias, kai
deinses.  E-text editor's translation: "Concerning brevity, and
speech that moves to pity, and exaggeration. . ."  Plato, Phaedrus
272a.

119. +Transliteration: ta pro tragdias.  E-text editor's translation:
"the things before tragedy."  Plato, Phaedrus 269a.

119. +Transliteration: ta pro tragdias, all' ou tragika.  E-text
editor's translation: "the things before tragedy, but not tragedy
itself."  Plato, Phaedrus 269a.

119. +Transliteration: anank logographik.  E-text editor's
translation: "[the manner] required [in] prose-writing or speech-
making."  Plato, Phaedrus 264b contains similar language.

119. +Transliteration: pros doxan.  E-text editor's translation: "in
accordance with received opinion."  Plato, Republic 362a, among other
passages.

121. +Transliteration: psychaggia.  Pater's translation: "the control
of minds."  The verb ag means "lead or drive."  Plato, Phaedrus 261a
and 271c.

121. +Transliteration: trib monon, kai empeiria alla techn.  Pater's
translation: "[not] by mere empiric routine, but by the power of
veritable fine art."  Plato, Phaedrus 270b.

121. +Transliteration: chalepa ta kala.  E-text editor's translation:
"fine things are hard [to obtain]."  Plato, Republic 435c.

122. +Transliteration: kala epitdeumata.  Pater's translation:
"beautiful employments."  Plato, Symposium 211c.

122. +Transliteration: monoeides.  E-text editor's translation: "of one
kind, simple."  Plato, Symposium 211a and 211e.

122. +Transliteration: h dei.  E-text editor's translation: "with what
is necessary."  Plato, Symposium 212a.

122. +Transliteration: ho nous.  Pater's translation: "imaginative
reason."  The word nous or noos generally means "mind."  Plato,
Symposium 210-212.

123. +The passage Pater cites--Diotima's speech about love--runs from
210-212a of the Symposium.



CHAPTER 6: THE GENIUS OF PLATO

[124] ALL true criticism of philosophic doctrine, as of every other
product of human mind, must begin with an historic estimate of the
conditions, antecedent and contemporary, which helped to make it
precisely what it was.  But a complete criticism does not end there.
In the evolution of abstract doctrine as we find it written in the
history of philosophy, if there is always, on one side, the fatal,
irresistible, mechanic play of circumstance--the circumstances of a
particular age, which may be analysed and explained; there is always
also, as if acting from the opposite side, the comparatively
inexplicable force of a personality, resistant to, while it is moulded
by, them.  It might even be said that the trial-task of criticism, in
regard to literature and art no less than to philosophy, begins exactly
where the estimate of general conditions, of the conditions common to
all the products of this or that particular age--of the "environment"--
leaves off, and we touch what is unique in the individual genius [125]
which contrived after all, by force of will, to have its own masterful
way with that environment.  If in reading Plato, for instance, the
philosophic student has to re-construct for himself, as far as
possible, the general character of an age, he must also, so far as he
may, reproduce the portrait of a person.  The Sophists, the Sophistical
world, around him; his master, Socrates; the Pre-Socratic philosophies;
the mechanic influence, that is to say, of past and present:--of course
we can know nothing at all of the Platonic doctrine except so far as we
see it in well-ascertained contact with all that; but there is also
Plato himself in it.

--A personality, we may notice at the outset, of a certain
complication.  The great masters of philosophy have been for the most
part its noticeably single-minded servants.  As if in emulation of
Aristotle's simplicity of character, his absorbing intellectualism--
impressive certainly, heroic enough, in its way--they have served
science, science in vacuo, as if nothing beside, faith, imagination,
love, the bodily sense, could detach them from it for an hour.  It is
not merely that we know little of their lives (there was so little to
tell!) but that we know nothing at all of their temperaments; of which,
that one leading abstract or scientific force in them was in fact
strictly exclusive.  Little more than intellectual abstractions
themselves, in them [126] philosophy was wholly faithful to its
colours, or its colourlessness; rendering not grey only, as Hegel said
of it, but all colours alike, in grey.

With Plato it was otherwise.  In him, the passion for truth did but
bend, or take the bent of, certain ineradicable predispositions of his
nature, in themselves perhaps somewhat opposed to that.  It is however
in the blending of diverse elements in the mental constitution of Plato
that the peculiar Platonic quality resides.  Platonism is in one sense
an emphatic witness to the unseen, the transcendental, the non-
experienced, the beauty, for instance, which is not for the bodily eye.
Yet the author of this philosophy of the unseen was,--Who can doubt it
who has read but a page of him? this, in fact, is what has led and kept
to his pages many who have little or no turn for the sort of questions
Plato actually discusses:--The author of this philosophy of the unseen
was one, for whom, as was said of a very different French writer, "the
visible world really existed."  Austere as he seems, and on well-
considered principle really is, his temperance or austerity,
aesthetically so winning, is attained only by the chastisement, the
control, of a variously interested, a richly sensuous nature.  Yes, the
visible world, so pre-eminently worth eye-sight at Athens just then,
really existed for him: exists still--there's the point!--is active
still everywhere, when he seems to have turned away from it to
invisible things.

[127] To the somewhat sad-coloured school of Socrates, and its
discipline towards apathy or contempt in such matters, he had brought
capacities of bodily sense with the making in them of an Odyssey; or
(shall we say?) of a poet after the order of Sappho or Catullus; as
indeed also a practical intelligence, a popular management of his own
powers, a skill in philosophic yet mundane Greek prose, which might
have constituted him the most successful of Sophists.  You cannot help
seeing that his mind is a storehouse of all the liveliest imageries of
men and things.  Nothing, if it really arrests eye or ear at all, is
too trivial to note.  Passing through the crowd of human beings, he
notes the sounds alike of their solemn hymns and of their pettiest
handicraft.  A conventional philosopher might speak of  "dumb matter,"
for instance; but Plato has lingered too long in braziers' workshops to
lapse into so stupid an epithet.  And if the persistent hold of
sensible things upon him thus reveals itself in trifles, it is manifest
no less in the way in which he can tell a long story,--no one more
effectively! and again, in his graphic presentment of whole scenes from
actual life, like that with which The Republic opens.  His Socrates,
like other people, is curious to witness a new religious function: how
they will do it.  As in modern times, it would be a pleasant occasion
also for meeting the acquaintance one likes best-- Synesometha pollois
[128] tn nen autothi.+  "We shall meet a number of our youth there: we
shall have a dialogue: there will be a torchlight procession in honour
of the goddess, an equestrian procession: a novel feature!--What?
Torches in their hands, passed on as they race?  Aye, and an
illumination, through the entire night.  It will be worth seeing!"--
that old midnight hour, as Carlyle says of another vivid scene,
"shining yet on us, ruddy-bright through the centuries."  Put alongside
of that, and, for life-like charm, side by side with Murillo's Beggar-
boys (you catch them, if you look at his canvas on the sudden, actually
moving their mouths, to laugh and speak and munch their crusts, all at
once) the scene in the Lysis of the dice-players.  There the boys are!
in full dress, to take part in a religious ceremony.  It is scarcely
over; but they are already busy with the knuckle-bones, some just
outside the door, others in a corner.  Though Plato never tells one
without due motive, yet he loves a story for its own sake, can make one
of fact or fancy at a moment's notice, or re-tell other people's
better: how those dear skinny grasshoppers of Attica, for instance, had
once been human creatures, who, when the Muses first came on earth,
were so absorbed by their music that they forgot even to eat and drink,
till they died of it.  And then the story of Gyges in The Republic, and
the ring that can make its wearer invisible: [129] --it goes as easily,
as the ring itself round the finger.

Like all masters of literature, Plato has of course varied excellences;
but perhaps none of them has won for him a larger number of friendly
readers than this impress of visible reality.  For him, truly (as he
supposed the highest sort of knowledge must of necessity be) all
knowledge was like knowing a person.  The Dialogue itself, being, as it
is, the special creation of his literary art, becomes in his hands, and
by his masterly conduct of it, like a single living person; so
comprehensive a sense does he bring to bear upon it of the slowly-
developing physiognomy of the thing--its organic structure, its
symmetry and expression--combining all the various, disparate subjects
of The Republic, for example, into a manageable whole, so entirely
that, looking back, one fancies this long dialogue of at least three
hundred pages might have occupied, perhaps an afternoon.

And those who take part in it!  If Plato did not create the "Socrates"
of his Dialogues, he has created other characters hardly less life-
like.  The young Charmides, the incarnation of natural, as the aged
Cephalus of acquired, temperance; his Sophoclean amenity as he sits
there pontifically at the altar, in the court of his peaceful house;
the large company, of varied character and of every age, which moves in
those Dialogues, though still oftenest the young [130] in all their
youthful liveliness:--who that knows them at all can doubt Plato's hold
on persons, that of persons on him?  Sometimes, even when they are not
formally introduced into his work, characters that had interested,
impressed, or touched him, inform and colour it, as if with their
personal influence, showing through what purports to be the wholly
abstract analysis of some wholly abstract moral situation.  Thus, the
form of the dying Socrates himself is visible pathetically in the
description of the suffering righteous man, actually put into his own
mouth in the second book of The Republic; as the winning brilliancy of
the lost spirit of Alcibiades infuses those pages of the sixth, which
discuss the nature of one by birth and endowments an aristocrat, amid
the dangers to which it is exposed in the Athens of that day--the
qualities which must make him, if not the saviour, the destroyer, of a
society which cannot remain unaffected by his showy presence.
Corruptio optimi pessima!  Yet even here, when Plato is dealing with
the inmost elements of personality, his eye is still on its object, on
character as seen in characteristics, through those details, which make
character a sensible fact, the changes of colour in the face as of tone
in the voice, the gestures, the really physiognomic value, or the mere
tricks, of gesture and glance and speech.  What is visibly expressive
in, or upon, persons; those flashes of temper which check yet give
[131] renewed interest to the course of a conversation; the delicate
touches of intercourse, which convey to the very senses all the
subtleties of the heart or of the intelligence:--it is always more than
worth his while to make note of these.

We see, for instance, the sharp little pygmy bit of a soul that catches
sight of any little thing so keenly, and makes a very proper lawyer.
We see, as well as hear, the "rhapsodist," whose sensitive performance
of his part is nothing less than an "interpretation" of it, artist and
critic at once: the personal vanities of the various speakers in his
Dialogues, as though Plato had observed, or overheard them, alone; and
the inevitable prominence of youth wherever it is present at all,
notwithstanding the real sweetness of manner and modesty of soul he
records of it so affectionately.  It is this he loves best to linger
by; to feel himself in contact with a condition of life, which
translates all it is, so immediately, into delightful colour, and
movement, and sound.  The eighth and ninth books of The Republic are a
grave contribution, as you know, to abstract moral and political
theory, a generalisation of weighty changes of character in men and
states.  But his observations on the concrete traits of individuals,
young or old, which enliven us on the way; the difference in sameness
of sons and fathers, for instance; the influence of servants on their
masters; how the minute ambiguities of rank, as a family becomes [132]
impoverished, tell on manners, on temper; all the play of moral colour
in the reflex of mere circumstance on what men really are:--the
characterisation of all this has with Plato a touch of the peculiar
fineness of Thackeray, one might say.  Plato enjoys it for its own
sake, and would have been an excellent writer of fiction.

There is plenty of humour in him also of