as the only person whom I really
liked to have near me. I knew that she was sincere; and, however
unpolished her manners, and however awkward her assistance, the
good-will with which it was given, made me prefer it to the most
delicate and dexterous attentions which I believed to be interested. The
very want of a sense of propriety, and the freedom with which she talked
to me, regardless of what was suited to her station, or due to my rank,
instead of offending or disgusting me, became agreeable; besides, the
novelty of her dialect, and of her turn of thought, entertained me as
much as a sick man could be entertained. I remember once her telling me,
that, "if it _plased_ God, she would like to die on a Christmas-day, of
all days; _because_ the gates of Heaven, they say, will be open all that
day; and who knows but a body might slip in _unknownst?_" When she sat
up with me at nights she talked on eternally; for she assured me there
was nothing like talking, as she had found, to put one _asy asleep_. I
listened or not, just as I liked; _any way_ she was _contint_. She was
inexhaustible in her anecdotes of my ancestors, all tending to the
honour and glory of the family; she had also an excellent memory for all
the insults, or traditions of insults, which the Glenthorns had received
for many ages back, even to the times of the old kings of Ireland; long
and long before they stooped to be _lorded_; when their "names, which it
was a pity and a murder, and moreover a burning shame, to change, was,
O'Shaughnessy." She was well-stored with histories of Irish and Scotish
chiefs. The story of O'Neill, the Irish blackbeard, I am sure I ought to
remember, for Ellinor told it to me at least six times. Then she had a
large assortment of fairies and _shadowless_ witches, and _banshees_;
and besides, she had legions of spirits and ghosts, and haunted castles
without end, my own castle of Glenthorn not excepted, in the description
of which she was extremely eloquent; she absolutely excited in my mind
some desire to see it. For many a long year, she said, it had been her
nightly prayer, that she might live to see me in my own castle; and
often and often she was coming over to England to tell me so, only her
husband, as long as he lived, would not let her set out on what he
called a fool's errand: but it pleased God to take him to himself last
fair day, and then she resolved that nothing should hinder her to be
with her own child against his birthday: and now, could she see me in my
own Castle Glenthorn, she would die _contint_--and what a pity but I
should be in it! I was only a lord, as she said, in England; but I could
be all as one as a king in Ireland.

Ellinor impressed me with the idea of the sort of feudal power I should
possess in my vast territory, over tenants who were almost vassals, and
amongst a numerous train of dependents. We resist the efforts made by
those who, we think, exert authority or employ artifice to change our
determinations; whilst the perverse mind insensibly yields to those who
appear not to have power, or reason, or address, sufficient to obtain a
victory. I should not have heard any human being with patience try to
persuade me to go to Ireland, except this ignorant poor nurse, who
spoke, as I thought, merely from the instinct of affection to me and to
her native country. I promised her that I would, _some time or other_,
visit Glenthorn Castle: but this was only a vague promise, and it was
but little likely that it should be accomplished. As I regained my
strength, my mind turned, or rather was turned, to other thoughts.




CHAPTER IV.


One morning--it was the day after my physicians had pronounced me out of
all danger--Crawley sent me a note by Ellinor, congratulating me upon my
recovery, and begging to speak to me for half an hour. I refused to see
him; and said, that I was not yet well enough to do business. The same
morning Ellinor came with a message from Turner, my steward, who, with
his humble duty, requested to see me for five minutes, to communicate to
me something of importance. I consented to see Turner. He entered with a
face of suppressed joy and affected melancholy.

"Sad news I am bound in duty to be the bearer of, my lord. I was
determined, whatever came to pass, however, not to speak till your
honour was out of danger, which, I thank Heaven, is now the case, and
I am happy to be able to congratulate your lordship upon looking as
well as--"

"Never mind my looks. I will excuse your congratulations, Mr. Turner,"
said I, impatiently; for the recollection of the banqueting-house, and
the undertaker whom Turner was so eager to introduce, came full into my
mind. "Go on, if you please; five minutes is all I am at present able to
give to any business, and you sent me word you had something of
importance to communicate."

"True, my lord; but in case your lordship is not at present well enough,
or not so disposed, I will wait your lordship's leisure."

"Now or never, Mr. Turner. Speak, but speak at once."

"My lord, I would have done so long ago, but was loth to make mischief;
and besides, could not believe what I heard whispered, and would scarce
believe what I verily saw; though now, as I cannot reasonably have a
doubt, I think it would be a sin, and a burden upon my conscience, not
to speak; only that I am unwilling to shock your lordship too much, when
but just recovering, for that is not the time one would wish to tell or
to hear disagreeable things."

"Mr. Turner, either come to the point at once, or leave me; for I am not
strong enough to bear this suspense."

"I beg pardon, my lord: why then, my lord, the point is Captain
Crawley."

"What of him? I never desire to hear his name again."

"Nor I, I am sure, my lord; but there are some in the house might not be
of our opinion."

"Who? you sneaking fellow; speak out, can't you?"

"My lady--my lord--Now it is out. She'll go off with him this night, if
not prevented."

My surprise and indignation were as great as if I had always been the
fondest and the most attentive of husbands. I was at length roused from
that indifference and apathy into which I had sunk; and though I had
never loved my wife, the moment I knew she was lost to me for ever was
exquisitely painful. Astonishment, the sense of disgrace, the feeling of
rage against that treacherous parasite by whom she had been seduced, all
combined to overwhelm me. I could command my voice only enough to bid
Turner leave the room, and tell no one that he had spoken to me on this
subject. "Not a soul," he said, "should be told, or could guess it."

Left to my own reflections, as soon as the first emotions of anger
subsided, I blamed myself for my conduct to Lady Glenthorn. I considered
that she had been married to me by her friends, when she was too young
and too childish to judge for herself; that from the first day of our
marriage I had never made the slightest effort to win her affections, or
to guide her conduct; that, on the contrary, I had shown her marked
indifference, if not aversion. With fashionable airs, I had professed,
that provided she left me at liberty to spend the large fortune which
she brought me, and in consideration of which she enjoyed the title of
Countess of Glenthorn, I cared for nothing farther. With the
consequences of my neglect I now reproached myself in vain. Lady
Glenthorn's immense fortune had paid my debts, and had for two years
supplied my extravagance, or rather my indolence: little remained, and
she was now, in her twenty-third year, to be consigned to public
disgrace, and to a man whom I knew to be destitute of honour and
feeling. I pitied her, and resolved to go instantly and make an effort
to save her from destruction.

Ellinor, who watched all Crawley's motions, informed me, that he was
gone to a neighbouring town, and had left word that he should not be
home till after dinner. Lady Glenthorn was in her dressing-room, which
was at a part of the house farthest from that which I now inhabited. I
had never left my room since my illness, and had scarcely walked farther
than from my bed to my arm-chair; but I was so much roused by my
feelings at this instant, that, to Ellinor's great astonishment, I
started from my chair, and, forbidding her to follow me, walked without
any assistance along the corridor, which led to the back-stairs, and to
Lady Glenthorn's apartment. I opened the private door of her
dressing-room suddenly--the room was in great disorder--her woman was
upon her knees packing a trunk: Lady Glenthorn was standing at a table,
with a parcel of open letters before her, and a diamond necklace in her
hand. She started at the sight of me as if she had beheld a ghost: the
maid screamed, and ran to a door at the farther end of the room, to make
her escape, but that was bolted. Lady Glenthorn was pale and motionless,
till I approached; and then, recollecting herself, she reddened all
over, and thrust the letters into her table-drawer. Her woman, at the
same instant, snatched a casket of jewels, swept up in her arms a heap
of clothes, and huddled them all together into the half-packed trunk.

"Leave the room," said I to her sternly. She locked the trunk, pocketed
the key, and obeyed.

I placed a chair for Lady Glenthorn, and sat down myself. We were almost
equally unable to stand. We were silent for some moments. Her eyes were
fixed upon the ground, and she leaned her head upon her hand in an
attitude of despair. I could scarcely articulate; but making an effort
to command my voice, I at last said--

"Lady Glenthorn, I blame myself more than you for all that has
happened."

"For what?" said she, making a feeble attempt at evasion, yet at the
same time casting a guilty look towards the drawer of letters.

"You have nothing to conceal from me," said I.

"Nothing!" said she, in a feeble voice.

"Nothing," said I; "for I know every thing"--she started--"and am willing
to pardon every thing."

She looked up in my face astonished. "I am conscious," continued I,
"that you have not been well treated by me. You have had much reason to
complain of my neglect. To this I attribute your error. Forget the
past--I will set you the example. Promise me never to see the man more,
and what has happened shall never be known to the world."

She made me no answer, but burst into a flood of tears. She seemed
incapable of decision, or even of thought. I felt suddenly inspired
with energy.

"Write this moment," continued I, placing a pen and ink before her,
"write to forbid him ever to return to this house, or ever more to
appear in your presence. If he should appear in mine, I know how to
chastise him, and to vindicate my own honour. To preserve your
reputation, I refrain, upon these conditions, from making my contempt of
him public."

I put a pen into Lady Glenthorn's hand; but she trembled so that she
could not write. She made several ineffectual attempts, then tore the
paper; and again giving way to tears, exclaimed, "I cannot write--I
cannot think--I do not know what to say. Write what you will, and I
will sign it."

"I write to Captain Crawley! Write what _I_ will! Lady Glenthorn, it
must be your will to write, not mine. If it be not your will, say so."

"Oh! I do not say so--I do not say _that_. Give me a moment's time. I do
not know what I say. I have been very foolish--very wicked. You are very
good--but it is too late: it will all be known. Crawley will betray me;
he will tell it to Mrs. Mattocks: so whichever way I turn, I am undone.
Oh! what _will_ become of me?"

She wrung her hands and wept, and was for an hour in this state, in all
the indecision and imbecility of a child. At last, she wrote a few
scarcely legible lines to Crawley, forbidding him to see or think of her
more. I despatched the note, and she was full of penitence, and
gratitude, and tears. The next morning, when I wakened, I in my turn
received a note from her ladyship.

"Since I saw you, Captain Crawley has convinced me that I am his wife,
_in the eye of Heaven_, and I therefore desire a divorce, as much as
your _whole conduct_, since my marriage, convinces me _you_ must in your
_heart_, whatever may be your motives to _pretend_ otherwise. Before you
receive this I shall be _out of your way_ and _beyond your reach_; so do
not think of pursuing one who is no longer,

"Yours,

"A. CRAWLEY."

After reading this note, I thought not of pursuing or saving Lady
Glenthorn. I was as anxious for a divorce as she could be. Some months
afterwards the affair was brought to a public trial. When the cause came
on, so many circumstances were brought in mitigation of damages, to
prove my utter carelessness respecting my wife's conduct, that a
suspicion of collusion arose. From this imputation I was clear in the
opinion of all who really knew me; and I repelled the charge publicly,
with a degree of indignation that surprised all who knew the usual
apathy of my temper. I must observe, that during the whole time my
divorce-bill was pending, and whilst I was in the greatest possible
anxiety, my health was perfectly good. But no sooner was the affair
settled, and a decision made in my favour, than I relapsed into my old
nervous complaints.




CHAPTER V.


    "'Twas doing nothing was his curse;--
    Is there a vice can plague us worse?
    The wretch who digs the mine for bread,
    Or ploughs, that others may be fed,
    Feels less fatigue than that decreed
    To him who cannot think or read."

Illness was a sort of occupation to me, and I was always sorry to get
well. When the interest of being in danger ceased, I had no other to
supply its place. I fancied that I should enjoy my liberty after my
divorce; but "even freedom grew tasteless." I do not recollect any thing
that wakened me from my torpor, during two months after my divorce,
except a violent quarrel between all my English servants and my Irish
nurse. Whether she assumed too much, upon the idea that she was a
favourite, or whether national prejudice was alone the cause of the
hatred, that prevailed against her, I know not; but they one and all
declared that they could not, and would not, live with her. She
expressed the same dislike to _consorting_ with them; "but would _put
up_ with worse, ay, with the devils themselves, to oblige my honour, and
to lie under the same roof _wid_ my honour."

The rest of the servants laughed at her blunders. This she could bear
with good-humour; but when they seriously affected to reproach her with
having, by her uncouth appearance, at her first presenting herself at
Sherwood Park, endangered my life, she retorted, "And who cared for him
in the wide world but I, amongst you all, when he lay for dead? I ask
you that," said she.

To this there was no reply; and they hated her the more for their
having been silenced by her shrewdness. I protected her as long as I
could; but, for the sake of peace, I at last yielded to the combined
forces of the steward's room and the servants' hall, and despatched
Ellinor to Ireland, with a renewal of the promise that I would visit
Glenthorn Castle this year or the next. To comfort her at parting, I
would have made her a considerable present; but she would take only a
few guineas, to bear her expenses back to her native place. The
sacrifice I made did not procure me a peace of any continuance in my
own house:--ruined by indulgence, and by my indolent, reckless temper,
my servants were now my masters. In a large, ill-regulated
establishment, domestics become, like spoiled children, discontented,
capricious, and the tyrants over those who have not the sense or
steadiness to command. I remember one delicate puppy _parted with me_,
because, as he informed me, the curtains of his bed did not close at
the foot; he had never been used to such a thing, and had told the
housekeeper so three times, but could obtain no redress, which
necessitated him to beg my permission to retire from the service.

In his stead another coxcomb came to offer himself, who, with an
incomparably easy air, begged to know whether I wanted _a man of figure_
or _a man of parts?_ For the benefit of those to whom this fashionable
classification of domestics may not be familiar, I should observe, that
the department of _a man of figure_ is specially and solely to announce
company on gala days; the business of _the man of parts_ is
multifarious: to write cards of invitation, to speak to impertinent
tradesmen, to carry confidential messages, et cetera. Now, where there
is an et cetera in an agreement, there is always an opening for dispute.
The functions of _the man of parts_ not being accurately defined, I
unluckily required from him some service which was not in his bond; I
believe it was to go for my pocket handkerchief: "He could not possibly
do it, because it was not his business;" and I, the laziest of mortals,
after waiting a full quarter of an hour, whilst they were settling whose
business it was to obey me, was forced to get up and go for what I
wanted. I comforted myself by the recollection of the poor king of Spain
and _le brasier_. With a regal precedent I could not but be satisfied.
All great people, said I to myself, are obliged to submit to these
inconveniences. I submitted with so good a grace, that my submission was
scarcely felt to be a condescension. My _bachelor's_ house soon
exhibited in perfection "High Life below Stairs."

It is said that a foreign nobleman permitted his servants to take their
own way so completely, that one night he and his guests being kept
waiting an unconscionable time for supper, he at last went down stairs
to inquire into the cause of the delay: he found the servant, whose
business it was to take up supper, quietly at cards with a large party
of his friends. The man coolly remonstrated, that it was impossible to
leave his game unfinished. The master candidly acknowledged the force
of his plea; but insisted upon the man's going up stairs to lay the
cloth for supper, whilst he took his cards, sat down, and finished the
game for him.

The suavity of my temper never absolutely reached this degree of
complaisance. My home was disagreeable to me: I had not the resolution
to remove the causes of the discontents. Every day I swore I would part
with all these rascals the next morning; but still they stayed. Abroad I
was not happier than at home. I was disgusted with my former companions:
they had convinced me, the night of my accident at Sherwood Park, that
they cared not whether I was alive or dead; and ever since that time I
had been more and more struck with their selfishness as well as folly.
It was inexpressibly fatiguing and irksome to me to keep up a show of
good fellowship and joviality with these people, though I had not
sufficient energy to make the attempt to quit them. When these _dashers_
and _loungers_ found that I was not always at their disposal, they
discovered that Glenthorn had always something _odd_ about him; that
Glenthorn had always a melancholy turn; that it ran in the family, &c.
Satisfied with these phrases, they let me take my own way, and forgot my
existence. Public amusements had lost their charm; I had sufficient
steadiness to resist the temptation to game: but, for want of stimulus,
I could hardly endure the _tedium_ of my days. At this period of my
life, ennui was very near turning into misanthropy. I balanced between
becoming a misanthrope and a democrat.

Whilst I was in this critical state of ineptitude, my attention was
accidentally roused by the sight of a boxing-match. My feelings were so
much excited, and the excitation was so delightful, that I was now in
danger of becoming an amateur of the pugilistic art. It did not occur to
me, that it was beneath the dignity of a British nobleman to learn the
vulgar terms of the boxing trade. I soon began to talk very _knowingly_
of _first-rate bruisers, game_ men, and _pleasing_ fighters; _making
play--beating a man under the ropes--sparring--rallying--sawing_--and
_chopping_. What farther proficiency I might have made in this language,
or how long my interest in these feats of prize-fighters might have
continued, had I been left to myself, I cannot determine; but I was
unexpectedly seized with a fit of national shame, on hearing a foreigner
of rank and reputation express astonishment at our taste for these
savage spectacles. It was in vain that I repeated the arguments of some
of the parliamentary panegyrists of boxing and bull-baiting; and
asserted, that these diversions render a people hardy and courageous. My
opponent replied, that he did not perceive the necessary connexion
between cruelty and courage; that he did not comprehend how the standing
by in safety to see two men bruise each other almost to death could
evince or inspire heroic sentiments or warlike dispositions. He
observed, that the Romans were most eager for the fights of gladiators
during the reigns of the most effeminate and cruel emperors, and in the
decline of all public spirit and virtue. These arguments would have
probably made but a feeble impression on an understanding like mine,
unaccustomed to general reasoning, and on a temper habituated to pursue,
without thought of consequences, my immediate individual gratification;
but it happened that my feelings were touched at this time by the
dreadful sufferings of one of the pugilistic combatants. He died a few
hours after the battle. He was an Irishman: most of the spectators being
English, and triumphing in the victory of their countryman, the poor
fellow's fate was scarcely noticed. I spoke to him a little while before
he died, and found that he came from my own county. His name was Michael
Noonan. He made it his dying request, that I would carry half-a-guinea,
the only money he possessed, to his aged father, and a silk handkerchief
he had worn round his neck, to his sister. Pity for this unfortunate
Irishman recalled Ireland to my thoughts. Many small reasons concurred
to make me now desirous of going to that country. I should get rid at
once of a tormenting establishment, and of servants, without the odium
of turning them away; for most of them declined going into banishment,
as they called it. Besides this, I should leave my companions, with whom
I was disgusted. I was tired of England, and wanted to see something
new, even if it were to be worse than what I had seen before. These were
not my ostensible reasons: I professed to have more exalted motives for
my journey. It was my duty, I said, to visit my Irish estate, and to
encourage my tenantry, by residing some time among them. Duties often
spring up to our view at a convenient opportunity. Then my promise to
poor Ellinor; it was impossible for a man of honour to break a promise,
even to an old woman: in short, when people are determined upon any
action, they seldom fail to find arguments capable of convincing them
that their resolution is reasonable. Mixed motives govern the conduct of
half mankind; so I set out upon my journey to Ireland.




CHAPTER VI.


    "Es tu contente à la fleur de tes ans?
    As tu des goûts et des amusemens?
    Tu dois mener une assez douce vie.
    L'autre en deux mots répondait 'Je m'ennuie.'
    C'est un grand mal, dit la fée, et je crois
    Qu'un beau secret est de rester chez soi."--

I was detained six days by contrary winds at Holyhead. Sick of that
miserable place, in my ill-humour I cursed Ireland, and twice resolved
to return to London: but the wind changed, my carriage was on board the
packet; so I sailed and landly safely in Dublin. I was surprised by the
excellence of the hotel at which I was lodged. I had not conceived that
such accommodation could have been found in Dublin. The house had, as I
was told, belonged to a nobleman: it was fitted up and appointed with a
degree of elegance, and even magnificence, beyond what I had been used
to in the most fashionable hotels in London.

"Ah! sir," said an Irish gentleman, who found me in admiration upon the
staircase, "this is all very good, very fine, but it is too good and too
fine to last; come here again in two years, and I am afraid you will see
all this going to rack and ruin. This is too often the case with us in
Ireland: we can project, but we can't calculate; we must have every
thing upon too large a scale. We mistake a grand beginning for a good
beginning. We begin like princes, and we end like beggars."

I rested only a few days in a capital in which, I took it for granted,
there could be nothing worth seeing by a person who was just come from
London. In driving through the streets, I was, however, surprised to see
buildings, which my prejudices could scarcely believe to be Irish. I
also saw some things, which recalled to my mind the observations I had
heard at my hotel. I was struck with instances of grand beginnings and
lamentable want of finish, with mixture of the magnificent and the
paltry; of admirable and execrable taste. Though my understanding was
wholly uncultivated, these things struck my eye. Of all the faculties of
my mind, my taste had been most exercised, because its exercise had
given me least trouble.

Impatient to see my own castle, I left Dublin. I was again astonished by
the beauty of the prospects, and the excellence of the roads. I had in
my ignorance believed that I was never to see a tree in Ireland, and
that the roads were almost impassable. With the promptitude of
credulity, I now went from one extreme to the other: I concluded that we
should travel with the same celerity as upon the Bath road; and I
expected, that a journey for which four days had been allotted might be
performed in two. Like all those who have nothing to do any where, I was
always in a prodigious hurry to get from place to place; and I ever had
a noble ambition to go over as much ground as possible in a given space
of time. I travelled in a light barouche, and with my own horses. My own
man (an Englishman), and my cook (a Frenchman), followed in a hackney
chaise; I cared not how, so that they kept up with me; the rest was
their affair. At night, my gentleman complained bitterly of the Irish
post carriages, and besought me to let him follow at an easier rate the
next day; but to this I could by no means consent: for how could I exist
without my own man and my French cook? In the morning, just as I was
ready to set off, and had thrown myself back in my carriage, my
Englishman and Frenchman came to the door, both in so great a rage, that
the one was inarticulate and the other unintelligible. At length the
object of their indignation spoke for itself. From the inn yard came a
hackney chaise, in a most deplorable crazy state; the body mounted up to
a prodigious height, on unbending springs, nodding forwards, one door
swinging open, three blinds up, because they could not be let down, the
perch tied in two places, the iron of the wheels half off, half loose,
wooden pegs for linch-pins, and ropes for harness. The horses were
worthy of the harness; wretched little dog-tired creatures, that looked
as if they had been driven to the last gasp, and as if they had never
been rubbed down in their lives; their bones starting through their
skin; one lame, the other blind; one with a raw back, the other with a
galled breast; one with his neck poking down over his collar, and the
other with his head dragged forward by a bit of a broken bridle, held at
arm's length by a man dressed like a mad beggar, in half a hat and half
a wig, both awry in opposite directions; a long tattered great-coat,
tied round his waist by a hay-rope; the jagged rents in the skirts of
his coat showing his bare legs marbled of many colours; while something
like stockings hung loose about his ankles. The noises he made by way of
threatening or encouraging his steeds, I pretend not to describe.

In an indignant voice I called to the landlord, "I hope these are not
the horses--I hope this is not the chaise, intended for my servants."

The innkeeper, and the pauper who was preparing to officiate as
postilion, both in the same instant exclaimed, "_Sorrow_ better chaise
in the county!"

"_Sorrow_" said I; "what do you mean by sorrow?"

"That there's no better, plase your honour, can be seen. We have two
more, to be sure; but one has no top, and the other no bottom. Any way
there's no better can be seen than this same." [77]

"And these horses!" cried I; "why, this horse is so lame he can
hardly stand."

"Oh, plase your honour, tho' he can't stand, he'll _go_ fast enough. He
has a great deal of the rogue in him, plase your honour. He's always
that way at first setting out."

"And that wretched animal with the galled breast!"

"He's all the better for it, when once he warms; it's he that will go
with the speed of light, plase your honour. Sure, is not he
Knockecroghery? and didn't I give fifteen guineas for him, barring the
luck penny, at the fair of Knockecroghery, and he rising four year old
at the same time?"

I could not avoid smiling at this speech: but my _gentleman_,
maintaining his angry gravity, declared, in a sullen tone, that he would
be cursed if he went with such horses; and the Frenchman, with abundance
of gesticulation, made a prodigious chattering, which no mortal
understood.

"Then I'll tell you what you'll do," said Paddy; "you'll take four,
as becomes gentlemen of your quality, and you'll see how we'll
powder along."

And straight he put the knuckle of his fore-finger in his mouth, and
whistled shrill and strong; and, in a moment, a whistle somewhere out in
the fields answered him.

I protested against these proceedings, but in vain; before the first
pair of horses were fastened to the chaise, up came a little boy with
the others _fresh_ from the plough. They were quick enough in putting
these to; yet how they managed it with their tackle, I know not. "Now
we're fixed handsomely," said Paddy.

"But this chaise will break down the first mile."

"Is it this chaise, plase your honour? I'll engage it will go the
world's end. The universe wouldn't break it down now; sure it was mended
but last night."

Then seizing his whip and reins in one hand, he clawed up his stockings
with the other: so with one easy step he got into his place, and seated
himself, coachman-like, upon a well-worn bar of wood, that served as a
coach-box. "Throw me the loan of a trusty Bartly, for a cushion," said
he. A frieze coat was thrown up over the horses' heads--Paddy caught it.
"Where are you, Hosey?" cried he. "Sure I'm only rowling a wisp of straw
on my leg," replied Hosey. "Throw me up," added this paragon of
postilions, turning to one of the crowd of idle bystanders. "Arrah, push
me up, can't ye?"

A man took hold of his knee, and threw him upon the horse: he was in his
seat in a trice; then clinging by the mane of his horse, he scrambled
for the bridle, which was under the other horse's feet--reached it, and,
well satisfied with himself, looked round at Paddy, who looked back to
the chaise-door at my angry servants, "secure in the last event of
things." In vain the Englishman in monotonous anger, and the Frenchman
in every note of the gamut, abused Paddy: necessity and wit were on
Paddy's side; he parried all that was said against his chaise, his
horses, himself, and his country, with invincible comic dexterity, till
at last, both his adversaries, dumb-foundered, clambered into the
vehicle, where they were instantly shut up in straw and darkness. Paddy,
in a triumphant tone, called to _my_ postilions, bidding them "get on,
and not be stopping the way any longer."

Without uttering a syllable, they drove on; but they could not, nor
could I, refrain from looking back to see how those fellows would
manage. We saw the fore-horses make towards the right, then to the left,
and every way but straight forwards; whilst Paddy bawled to Hosey--"Keep
the middle of the road, can't ye? I don't want ye to draw a pound
at-all-at-all."

At last, by dint of whipping, the four horses were compelled to set off
in a lame gallop; but they stopped short at a hill near the end of the
town, whilst a shouting troop of ragged boys followed, and pushed them
fairly to the top. Half an hour afterwards, as we were putting on our
drag-chain to go down another steep hill,--to my utter astonishment,
Paddy, with his horses in full gallop, came rattling and _chehupping_
past us. My people called to warn him that he had no _drag_: but still
he cried "Never fear!" and shaking the long reins, and stamping with his
foot, on he went thundering down the hill. My Englishmen were aghast.

"The turn yonder below, at the bottom of the hill, is as sharp and ugly
as ever I see," said my postilion, after a moment's stupified silence.
"He will break their necks, as sure as my name is John."

Quite the contrary: when we had dragged and undragged, and came up
to Paddy, we found him safe on his legs, mending some of his tackle
very quietly.

"If that had broken as you were going down the steep hill," said I, "it
would have been all over with you, Paddy."

"That's true, plase your honour: but it never happened me going down
hill--nor never will, by the blessing of God, if I've any luck."

With this mixed confidence in a special providence, and in his own good
luck, Paddy went on, much to my amusement. It was his glory to keep
before us; and he rattled on till he came to a narrow part of the road,
where they were rebuilding a bridge. Here there was a dead stop. Paddy
lashed his horses, and called them all manner of names; but the wheel
horse, Knockecroghery, was restive, and at last began to kick most
furiously. It seemed inevitable that the first kick which should reach
the splinter-bar, at which it was aimed, must demolish it instantly. My
English gentleman and my Frenchman both put their heads out of the only
window which was pervious, and called most manfully to be let out.
"Never fear," said Paddy. To open the door for themselves was beyond
their force or skill. One of the hind wheels, which had belonged to
another carriage, was too high to suffer the door to be opened, and the
blind at the other side prevented their attempts, so they were close
prisoners. The men who had been at work on the broken bridge came
forward, and rested on their spades to see the battle. As my carriage
could not pass, I was also compelled to be a spectator of this contest
between man and horse.

"Never fear," reiterated Paddy; "I'll engage I'll be up wid him. Now for
it, Knockecroghery! Oh, the rogue, he thinks he has me at a _nonplush_,
but I'll show him the _differ_."

After this brag of war, Paddy whipped, Knockecroghery kicked; and Paddy,
seemingly unconscious of danger, sat within reach of the kicking horse,
twitching up first one of his legs, then the other, and shifting as the
animal aimed his hoofs, escaping every time as it were by miracle. With
a mixture of temerity and presence of mind, which made us alternately
look upon him as a madman and a hero, he gloried in the danger, secure
of success, and of the sympathy of the spectators.

"Ah! didn't I _compass_ him cleverly then? Oh, the villain, to be
browbating me! I'm too cute for him yet. See there, now, he's come to;
and I'll be his bail he'll go _asy_ enough wid me. Ogh! he has a fine
spirit of his own, but it's I that can match him: 'twould be a poor case
if a man like me cou'dn't match a horse any way, let alone a mare, which
this is, or it never would be so vicious."

After this hard-fought battle, and suitable rejoicing for the victory,
Paddy walked his subdued adversary on a few yards to allow us to pass
him; but, to the dismay of my postilions, a hay-rope was at this instant
thrown across the road, before our horses, by the road-makers, who, to
explain this proceeding, cried out, "Plase your honour, the road is so
dry, we'd expect a trifle to wet it."

"What do these fellows mean?" said I.

"It's only a tester or a hog they want, your honour, to give 'em to
drink your honour's health," said Paddy.

"A hog to drink my health?"

"Ay, that is a thirteen, plase your honour; all as one as an English
shilling."

I threw them a shilling: the hay-rope was withdrawn, and at last we
went on. We heard no more of Paddy till evening. He came in two hours
after us, and expected to be doubly paid _for driving my honour's
gentlemen so well_.

I must say that on this journey, though I met with many delays and
disasters; though one of my horses was lamed in shoeing by a smith, who
came home drunk from a funeral; and though the back pannel of my
carriage was broken by the pole of a chaise; and though one day I went
without my dinner at a large desolate inn, where nothing was to be had
but whiskey; and though one night I lay in a little smoky den, in which
the meanest of my servants in England would have thought it impossible
to sleep; and though I complained bitterly, and swore it was
impracticable for a gentleman to travel in Ireland; yet I never remember
to have experienced, on any journey, less ennui.[78] I was out of
patience twenty times a day, but I certainly felt no ennui; and I am
convinced that the benefit some patients receive from a journey is in an
inverse proportion to the ease and luxury of their mode of travelling.
When they are compelled to exert their faculties, and to use their
limbs, they forget their nerves, as I did. Upon this principle I should
recommend to wealthy hypochondriacs a journey in Ireland, preferably to
any country in the civilized world. I can promise them, that they will
not only be moved to anger often enough to make their blood circulate
briskly, but they will even, in the acme of their impatience, be thrown
into salutary convulsions of laughter, by the comic concomitants of
their disasters: besides, if they have hearts, their best feelings
cannot fail to be awakened by the warm, generous hospitality they will
receive in this country, from the cabin to the castle.

Late in the evening of the fourth day, we came to an inn on the verge of
the county where my estate was situate. It was one of the wildest parts
of Ireland. We could find no horses, nor accommodations of any sort, and
we had several miles farther to go. For our only comfort, the dirty
landlady, who had married the hostler, and wore gold drop ear-rings,
reminded us, that, "Sure, if we could but wait an hour, and take a fresh
egg, we should have a fine moon."

After many fruitless imprecations, my French cook was obliged to mount
one of my saddle-horses; my groom was left to follow us the next day; I
let my gentleman sit on the barouche box, and proceeded with my own
tired horses. The moon, which my landlady had promised me, rose, and I
had a full view of the face of the country. As we approached my maritime
territories, the cottages were thinly scattered, and the trees had a
stunted appearance; they all slanted one way, from the prevalent winds
that blew from the ocean. Our road presently stretched along the beach,
and I saw nothing to vary the prospect but rocks, and their huge shadows
upon the water. The road being sandy, the feet of the horses made no
noise, and nothing interrupted the silence of the night but the hissing
sound of the carriage-wheels passing through the sand.

"What o'clock is it now, think you, John?" said one of my postilions to
the other.

"Past twelve, for _sartain_," said John; "and this _bees_ a strange
Irish place," continued he, in a drawling voice; "with no possible way
o' getting at it, as I see." John, after a pause, resumed, "I say,
Timothy, to the best of my opinion, this here road is leading _on_ us
into the sea." John replied, "that he did suppose there might be such
a thing as a boat farther on, but where, he could not say for
_sartain_." Dismayed and helpless, they at last stopped to consult
whether they had come the right road to the house. In the midst of
their consultation there came up an Irish carman, whistling as he
walked beside his horse and car.

"Honest friend, is this the road to Glenthorn Castle?"

"To Glenthorn, sure enough, your honour."

"Whereabouts is the castle?"

"Forenent you, if you go on to the turn."

"_Forenent_ you!" As the postilions pondered upon this word, the carman,
leaving his horse, and car, turned back to explain by action what he
could not make intelligible by words.

"See, isn't here the castle?" cried he, darting before us to the turn
of the road, where he stood pointing at what we could not possibly see,
as it was hid by a promontory of rock. When we f reached the spot where
he was stationed, we came full upon the view of Glenthorn Castle: it
seemed to rise from the sea, abrupt and insulated, in all the gloomy
grandeur of ancient times, with turrets and battlements, and a huge
gateway, the pointed arch of which receded in perspective between the
projecting towers.

"It's my lord himself, I'm fond to believe!" said our guide, taking off
his hat; "I had best step on and tell 'em at the castle."

"No, my good friend, there is no occasion to trouble you farther;
you had better go back to your horse and car, which you have left on
the road."

"Oh! they are used to that, plase your honour; they'll go on very
_quite_, and I'll run like a redshank with the news to the castle."

He ran on before us with surprising velocity, whilst our tired horses
dragged us slowly through the sand. As we approached, the gateway of the
castle opened, and a number of men, who appeared to be dwarfs when
compared with the height of the building, came out with torches in their
hands. By their bustle, and the vehemence with which they bawled to one
another, one might have thought that the whole castle was in flames; but
they were only letting down a drawbridge. As I was going over this
bridge, a casement window opened in the castle; and a voice, which I
knew to be old Ellinor's, exclaimed, "Mind the big hole in the middle of
the bridge, God bless _yees!"_

I passed over the broken bridge, and through the massive gate, under an
arched way, at the farthest end of which a lamp had just been lighted:
then I came into a large open area, the court of the castle. The hollow
sound of the horses' feet, and of the carriage rumbling over the
drawbridge, was immediately succeeded by the strange and eager voices of
the people, who filled the court with a variety of noises, contrasting,
in the most striking manner, with the silence in which we had travelled
over the sands. The great effect that my arrival instantaneously
produced upon the multitude of servants and dependants, who issued from
the castle, gave me an idea of my own consequence beyond any thing which
I had ever felt in England. These people seemed "born for my use:" the
officious precipitation with which they ran to and fro; the style in
which they addressed me; some crying, "Long life to the Earl of
Glenthorn!" some blessing me for coming to reign over them; all together
gave more the idea of vassals than of tenants, and carried my
imagination centuries back to feudal times.

The first person I saw on entering the hall of my castle was poor
Ellinor: she pushed her way up to me--

"'Tis himself!" cried she. Then turning about suddenly, "I've seen him
in his own castle--I've seen him; and if it pleases God this minute to
take me to himself, I would die with pleasure."

"My good Ellinor," said I, touched to the heart by her affection, "my
good Ellinor, I hope you will live many a happy year; and if I can
contribute--"

"And himself to speak to me so kind before them all!" interrupted she.
"Oh! this is too much--quite too much!" She burst into tears; and,
hiding her face with her arm, made her way out of the hall.

The flights of stairs which I had to ascend, and the length of galleries
through which I was conducted, before I reached the apartment where
supper was served, gave me a vast idea of the extent of my castle; but I
was too much fatigued to enjoy fully the gratifications of pride. To the
simple pleasures of appetite I was more sensible: I ate heartily of one
of the most profusely hospitable suppers that ever was prepared for a
noble baron, even in the days when oxen were roasted whole. Then I grew
so sleepy, that I was impatient to be shown to my bed. I was ushered
through another suite of chambers and galleries; and, as I was
traversing one of these, a door of some strange dormitory opened, and a
group of female heads were thrust out, in the midst of which I could
distinguish old Ellinor's face; but, as I turned my head, the door
closed so quickly, that I had no time to speak: I only heard the words,
"Blessings on him! that's he!"

I was so sleepy, that I rejoiced having escaped an occasion where I
might have been called upon to speak, yet I was really grateful to my
poor nurse for her blessing. The state tower, in which, after reiterated
entreaties, I was at last left alone to repose, was hung with
magnificent, but ancient tapestry. It was so like a room in a haunted
castle, that if I had not been too much fatigued to think of any thing,
I should certainly have thought of Mrs. Radcliffe. I am sorry to say
that I have no mysteries, or even portentous omens, to record of this
night; for the moment that I lay down in my antiquated bed, I fell into
a profound sleep.




CHAPTER VII.


When I awoke, I thought that I was on shipboard; for the first sound I
heard was that of the sea booming against the castle walls. I arose,
looked out of the window of my bedchamber, and saw that the whole
prospect bore an air of savage wildness. As I contemplated the scene,
my imagination was seized with the idea of remoteness from civilized
society: the melancholy feeling of solitary grandeur took possession
of my soul.

From this feeling I was relieved by the affectionate countenance of my
old nurse, who at this instant put her head half in at the door.

"I only just made bold to look in at the fire, to see did it burn,
because I lighted it myself, and would not be blowing of it for fear of
wakening you."

"Come in, Ellinor, come in," said I. "Come quite in."

"I will, since you've nobody with you that I need be afraid of,"
said she, looking round satisfied, when she saw my own man was not
in the room.

"You need never be afraid of any body, Ellinor, whilst I am alive," said
I; "for I will always protect you. I do not forget your conduct, when
you thought I was dead in the banqueting-room."

"Oh! don't be talking of that; thanks be to God there was nothing in it!
I see you well now. Long life to you! Sure you must have been tired to
death last night, for this morning early you lay so _quite_, sleeping
like an angel; and I could see a great likeness in _yees_ to what you
were when you were a child in my arms."

"But sit down, sit down, my good Ellinor," said I, "and let us talk a
little of your own affairs."

"And are not these my own affairs?" said she, rather angrily.

"Certainly; but I mean, that you must tell me how you are going on in
the world, and what I can do to make you comfortable and happy."

"There's one thing would make me happy," said she.

"Name it," said I.

"To be let light your fire myself every morning, and open your
shutters, dear."

I could not help smiling at the simplicity of the request. I was going
to press her to ask something of more consequence, but she heard a
servant coming along the gallery, and, starting from her chair, she ran
and threw herself upon her knees before the fire, blowing it with her
mouth with great vehemence.

The servant came to let me know that Mr. M'Leod, my agent, was waiting
for me in the breakfast-room.

"And will I be let light your fire then every morning?" said Ellinor
eagerly, turning as she knelt.

"And welcome," said I.

"Then you won't forget to speak about it for me," said she, "else may be
I won't be let up by them English. God bless you, and don't forget to
speak for me."

"I will remember to speak about it," said I; but I went down stairs and
forgot it.

Mr. M'Leod, whom I found reading the newspaper in the breakfast-room,
seemed less affected by my presence than any body I had seen since my
arrival. He was a hard-featured, strong-built, perpendicular man, with
a remarkable quietness of deportment: he spoke with deliberate
distinctness, in an accent slightly Scotch; and, in speaking, he made
use of no gesticulation, but held himself surprisingly still. No part
of him but his eyes moved, and they had an expression of slow, but
determined good sense. He was sparing of his words; but the few that he
used said much, and went directly to the point. He pressed for the
immediate examination and settlement of his accounts: he enumerated
several things of importance, which he had done for my service: but he
did this without pretending the slightest attachment to me; he
mentioned them only as proofs of his having done his duty to his
employer, for which he neither expected nor would accept of thanks. He
seemed to be cold and upright in his mind as in his body. I was not
influenced in his favour even by his striking appearance of
plain-dealing, so strong was the general abhorrence of agents which
Crawley's treachery had left in my mind. The excess of credulity, when
convinced of its error, becomes the extreme of suspicion. Persons not
accustomed to reason often argue absurdly, because, from particular
instances, they deduce general conclusions, and extend the result of
their limited experience of individuals indiscriminately to whole
classes. The labour of thinking was so great to me, that, having once
come to a conclusion upon any subject, I would rather persist in it,
right or wrong, than be at the trouble of going over the process again
to revise and rectify my judgment.

Upon this occasion national prejudice heightened the prepossession which
circumstances had raised. Mr. M'Leod was not only an agent, but a
Scotchman; and I had a notion that all Scotchmen were crafty: therefore
I concluded that his blunt manner was assumed, and his plain-dealing but
a more refined species of policy.

After breakfast he laid before me a general statement of my affairs;
obliged me to name a day for the examination of his accounts; and
then, without expressing either mortification or displeasure at the
coldness of my behaviour, or at my evident impatience of his presence,
he, unmoved of spirit, rang for his horse, wished me a good morning,
and departed.

By this time my castle-yard was filled with a crowd of "great-coated
suitors," who were all _come to see--could they see my lordship? _or
_waiting just to say two words to my honour._ In various lounging
attitudes, leaning against the walls, or pacing backwards and forwards
before the window, to catch my eye, they, with a patience passing the
patience of courtiers, waited, hour after hour, the live-long day, for
their turn, or their chance, of an audience. I had promised myself the
pleasure of viewing my castle this day, and of taking a ride through my
grounds; but that was totally out of the question. I was no longer a man
with a will of my own, or with time at my own disposal.

_"Long may you live to reign over us!"_ was the signal that I was now to
live, like a prince, only for the service of my subjects. How these
subjects of mine had contrived to go on for so many years in my absence,
I was at a loss to conceive; for, the moment I was present, it seemed
evident that they could not exist without me.

One had a wife and six _childer,_ and not a spot in the wide world to
live in, if my honour did not let him live under me, in any bit of a
skirt of the estate that would feed a cow.

Another had a brother in jail, who could not be _got out without me._

Another had three lives dropped in a _lase_ for ever; another wanted a
renewal; another a farm; another a house; and one _expected_ my lard
would make his son an exciseman; and another that I would make him a
policeman; and another was _racked,_ if I did not settle the _mearing_
between him and Corny Corkran; and half a hundred had given in
_proposials_ to the agent for lands that would be out next May; and half
a hundred more came with legends of traditionary _promises from the old
lord, my lordship's father that was_: and for hours I was forced to
listen to long stories _out of the face_, in which there was such a
perplexing and provoking mixture of truth and fiction, involved in
language so figurative, and tones so new to my English ears, that, with
my utmost patience and strained attention, I could comprehend but a very
small portion of what was said to me.

Never were my ears so weary any day of my life as they were this day. I
could not have endured the fatigue, if I had not been supported by the
agreeable idea of my own power and consequence; a power seemingly next
to despotic. This new stimulus sustained me for three days that I was
kept a state-prisoner in my own castle, by the crowds who came to do me
homage, and to claim my favour and protection. In vain every morning was
my horse led about saddled and bridled: I never was permitted to mount.
On the fourth morning, when I felt sure of having despatched all my
tormentors, I was in astonishment and despair on seeing my levee crowded
with a fresh succession of petitioners. I gave orders to my people to
say that I was going out, and absolutely could see nobody. I supposed
that they did not understand what my English servants said, for they
never stirred from their posts. On receiving a second message, they
acknowledged that they understood the first; but replied, that they
could wait there till my honour came back from my ride. With difficulty
I mounted my horse, and escaped from the closing ranks of my
persecutors. At night I gave directions to have the gates kept shut, and
ordered the porter not to admit any body at his peril. When I got up, I
was delighted to see the coast clear; but the moment I went out, lo! at
the outside of the gate, the host of besiegers were posted, and in my
lawn, and along the road, and through the fields: they pursued me; and
when I forbade them to speak to me when I was on horseback, the next day
I found parties in ambuscade, who laid wait for me in silence, with
their hats off, bowing and bowing, till I could not refrain from saying,
"Well, my good friend, what do you stand bowing there for?" Then I was
fairly prisoner, and held by the bridle for an hour.

In short, I found that I was now placed in a situation where I could
hope neither for privacy nor leisure; but I had the joys of power, my
rising passion for which would certainly have been extinguished in a
short time by my habitual indolence, if it had not been kept alive by
jealousy of Mr. M'Leod.

One day, when I refused to hear an importunate tenant, and declared that
I had been persecuted with petitioners ever since my arrival, and that I
was absolutely tired to death, the man answered, "True _for ye_, my
lard; and it's a shame to be troubling you this way. Then, may be, it's
to Mr. M'Leod I'll go? Sure the agent will do as well, and no more about
it. Mr. M'Leod will do every thing the same way as usual."

"Mr. M'Leod will do every thing!" said I, hastily: "no, by no means."

"Who will we speak to, then?" said the man.

"To myself," said I, with as haughty a tone as Louis XIV. could have
assumed, when he announced to his court his resolution to be his own
minister. After this intrepid declaration to act for myself, I could not
yield to my habitual laziness. So much had my pride been hurt, as well
as my other feelings, by Captain Crawley's conduct, that I determined to
show the world I was not to be duped a second time by an agent.

When, on the day appointed, Mr. M'Leod came to settle accounts with me,
I, with an air of self-important capability, as if I had been all my
life used to look into my own affairs, sat down to inspect the papers;
and, incredible as it may appear, I went through the whole at a sitting,
without a single yawn; and, for a man who never before had looked into
an account, I understood the nature of debtor and creditor wonderfully
well: but, with my utmost desire to evince my arithmetical sagacity, I
could not detect the slightest error in the accounts; and it was evident
that Mr. M'Leod was not Captain Crawley; yet, rather than believe that
he could be both an agent and an honest man, I concluded, that if he did
not cheat me out of my money, his aim was to cheat me out of power; and,
fancying that he wished to be a man of influence and consequence in the
county, I transferred to him instantly the feelings that were passing in
my own mind, and took it for granted that he must be actuated by a love
of power in every thing that he did apparently for my service.

About this time I remember being much disturbed in my mind, by a letter
which Mr. M'Leod received in my presence, and of which he read to me
only a part: I never rested till I saw the whole. The epistle proved
well worth the trouble of deciphering: it related merely to the paving
of my chicken-yard. Like the King of Prussia,[79] who was said to be so
jealous of power, that he wanted to regulate all the mousetraps in his
dominions, I soon engrossed the management of a perplexing multiplicity
of minute insignificant details. Alas! I discovered to my cost, that
trouble is the inseparable attendant upon power: and many times, in the
course of the first ten days of my reign, I was ready to give up my
dignity from excessive fatigue.




CHAPTER VIII.


Early one morning, after having passed a feverish night, tortured in my
dreams by the voices and faces of the people who had surrounded me the
preceding day, I was awakened by the noise of somebody lighting my fire.
I thought it was Ellinor; and the idea of the disinterested affection of
this poor woman came full into my mind, contrasted in the strongest
manner with the recollection of the selfish encroaching people by whom,
of late, I had been worried.

"How do you do, my good Ellinor?" said I; "I have not seen any thing of
you this week past."

"It's not Ellinor at all, my lard," said a new voice.

"And why so? Why does not Ellinor light my fire?"

"Myself does not know, my lard."

"Go for her directly."

"She's gone home these three days, my lard."

"Gone! is she sick?"

"Not as I know _on_, my lard. Myself does not know what ailed her,
except she would be jealous of my lighting the fire. But I can't say
what ailed her; for she went away without a word good or bad, when she
seen me lighting this fire, which I did by the housekeeper's orders."

I now recollected poor Ellinor's request, and reproached myself for
having neglected to fulfil my promise, upon an affair which, however
trifling in itself, appeared of consequence to her. In the course of my
morning's ride I determined to call upon her at her own house, and make
my apologies: but first I satisfied my curiosity about a prodigious
number of _parks_ and _towns_ which I had heard of upon my estate. Many
a ragged man had come to me, with the modest request that I would let
him _one of the parks near the town_. The horse-park, the deer-park, the
cow-park, were not quite sufficient to answer the ideas I had attached
to the word _park_: but I was quite astonished and mortified when I
beheld the bits and corners of land near the town of Glenthorn, on which
these high-sounding titles had been bestowed:--just what would feed a
cow is sufficient in Ireland to constitute a park.

When I heard the names of above a hundred towns on the Glenthorn
estate, I had an exalted idea of my own territories; and I was
impatient to make a progress through my dominions: but, upon visiting a
few of these places, my curiosity was satisfied. Two or three cabins
gathered together were sufficient to constitute a town, and the land
adjoining thereto is called a town-land. The denominations of these
town-lands having continued from generation to generation, according to
ancient surveys of Ireland, it is sufficient to show the boundaries of
a town-land, to prove that there must be a town; and a tradition of a
town continues to be satisfactory, even when only a single cabin
remains. I turned my horse's head away in disgust from one of these
traditionary towns, and desired a boy to show me the way to Ellinor
O'Donoghoe's house.

"So I will, plase your honour, my lard; sure I've a right to know, for
she's my own granny."

The boy, or, as he was called, the _gossoon_, ran across some fields
where there was abundance of fern and of rabbits. The rabbits, sitting
quietly at the entrance of their holes, seemed to consider themselves as
proprietors of the soil, and me and my horse as intruders. The boy
apologized for the number of rabbit-holes on this part of the estate:
"It would not be so, my lard, if I had a gun allowed me by the
gamekeeper, which he would give me if he knew it would be plasing to
your honour." The ingenuity with which even the young boys can introduce
their requests in a favourable moment sometimes provoked me, and
sometimes excited my admiration. This boy made his just at the time he
was rolling out of my way a car that stopped a gap in the hedge; and he
was so hot and out of breath with running in my service, that I could
not refuse him _a token to the gamekeeper that he might get a gun_ as
soon as I understood what it meant.

We came to Ellinor's house, a wretched-looking, low, and mud-walled
cabin; at one end it was propped by a buttress of loose stones, upon
which stood a goat reared on his hind legs, to browse on the grass that
grew on the house-top. A dung-hill was before the only window, at the
other end of the house, and close to the door was a puddle of the
dirtiest of dirty water, in which ducks were dabbling. At my approach
there came out of the cabin a pig, a calf, a lamb, a kid, and two geese,
all with their legs tied; followed by turkeys, cocks, hens, chickens, a
dog, a cat, a kitten, a beggar-man, a beggar-woman with a pipe in her
mouth, children innumerable, and a stout girl with a pitchfork in her
hand; all together more than I, looking down upon the roof as I sat on
horseback, and measuring the superficies with my eye, could have
possibly supposed the mansion capable of containing. I asked if Ellinor
O'Donoghoe was at home; but the dog barked, the geese cackled, the
turkeys gobbled, and the beggars begged, with one accord, so loudly,
that there was no chance of my being heard. When the _girl_ had at last
succeeded in appeasing them all with her pitchfork, she answered, that
Ellinor O'Donoghoe was at home, but that she was out with the potatoes;
and she ran to fetch her, after calling to _the lays, who was within in
the room smoking_, to come out to his honour. As soon as they had
crouched under the door, and were able to stand upright, they welcomed
me with a very good grace, and were proud to see me in _the kingdom_. I
asked if they were all Ellinor's sons?

"All entirely," was the first answer.

"Not one but one," was the second answer. The third made the other two
intelligible.

"Plase your honour, we are all her sons-in-law, except myself, who am
her lawful son."

"Then you are my foster-brother?"

"No, plase your honour, it's not me, but my brother, and he's not in
it."

"_Not in it?'_

"No, plase your honour; becaase he's in the forge, up _abow_."

"Abow!" said I; "what does he mean?"

"Sure he's the blacksmith, my lard."

"And what are you?"

"I'm Ody, plase your honour; the short for Owen."

"And what is your trade?"

"Trade, plase your honour! I was bred to none, more than another; but
expects, only that my mother's not willing to part with me, to go into
the militia next month; and I'm sure she'd let me, if your honour's
lordship would spake a word to the colonel, to see to get me made a
serjeant _immadiately_."

As Ody made his request, all his companions came forward in sign of
sympathy, and closed round my horse's head to make me _sinsible_ of
their expectations; but at this instant Ellinor came up, her old face
colouring all over with joy when she saw me.

"So, Ellinor," said I, "you were affronted, I hear, and left the castle
in anger?"

"In anger! And if I did, more shame for me--but anger does not last long
with me any way; and against you, my lord, dear, how could it? Oh, think
how good he is, coming to see me in such a poor place!"

"I will make it a better place for you, Ellinor," said I. Far from being
eager to obtain promises, she still replied, that "all was good enough
for her." I desired that she would come and live with me at the castle,
till a better house than her present habitation could be built for her;
but she seemed to prefer this hovel. I assured her that she should be
permitted to light my fire.

"Oh, it's better for me not," said she; "better keep out of the way. I
could not be asy if I got any one ill-will."

I assured her that she should be at liberty to do just as she liked: and
whilst I rode home I was planning a pretty cottage for her near the
porter's lodge. I was pleased with myself for my gratitude to this poor
woman. Before I slept, I actually wrote a letter, which obtained for Ody
the honour of being made a serjeant in the ---- militia; and Ellinor,
dazzled by this military glory, was satisfied that he should leave home,
though he was her favourite.

"Well, let him leave me then," said she; "I won't stand in his light. I
never thought of my living to see Ody a serjeant. Now, Ody, have done
being wild, honey-dear, and be a credit to your family, and to his
honour's commendation--God bless him for ever for it! From the very
first I knew it was he that had the kind heart."

I am not sure that it was a very good action to get a man made a
serjeant, of whom I knew nothing but that he was son to my nurse.
Self-complacency, however, cherished my first indistinct feelings of
benevolence. Though not much accustomed to reflect upon my own
sensations, I think I remember, at this period, suspecting that the
feeling of benevolence is a greater pleasure than the possession of
_barouches_, and horses, and castles, and parks--greater even than the
possession of power. Of this last truth, however, I had not as yet a
perfectly clear conception. Even in my benevolence I was as impatient
and unreasonable as a child. Money, I thought, had the power of
Aladdin's lamp, to procure with magical celerity the gratification of my
wishes. I expected that a cottage for Ellinor should rise out of the
earth at my command. But the slaves of Aladdin's lamp were not Irishmen.
The delays, and difficulties, and blunders, in the execution of my
orders, provoked me beyond measure; and it would have been difficult for
a cool spectator to decide whether I or my workmen were most in fault;
they for their dilatory habits, or I for my impatient temper.

"Well, _plase_ your honour, when the _pratees_ are set, and the turf
cut, we'll _fall-to_ at Ellinor's house."

"Confound the potatoes and the turf! you must _fall-to_, as you call it,
directly."

"Is it without the lime, and plase your honour? Sure that same is not
drawn yet, nor the stones quarried, since it is of stone it will be--nor
the foundations itself dug, and the horses were all putting out dung."

Then after the bog and the potatoes, came funerals and holidays
innumerable. The masons were idle one week waiting for the mortar, and
the mortar another week waiting for the stones, and then they were at a
stand for the carpenter when they came to the door-case, and the
carpenter was looking for the sawyer, and the sawyer was gone to have
the saw mended. Then there was a _stop_ again at the window-sills for
the stone-cutter, and he was at the quarter-sessions, processing his
brother for _tin and tinpence, hay-money_. And when, in spite of all
delays and obstacles, the walls reached their destined height, the roof
was a new plague; the carpenter, the slater, and the nailer, were all at
variance, and I cannot tell which was the most provoking rogue of the
three. At last, however, the house was roofed and slated: then I would
not wait till the walls were dry before I plastered, and papered, and
furnished it. I fitted it up in the most elegant style of English
cottages; for I was determined that Ellinor's habitation should be such
as had never been seen in this part of the world. The day when it was
finished, and when I gave possession of it to Ellinor, paid me for all
my trouble; I tasted a species of pleasure that was new to me, and which
was the sweeter from having been earned with some difficulty. And now,
when I saw a vast number of my tenants assembled at a rural feast which
I gave on Ellinor's _installation_, my benevolence enlarged, even beyond
the possibility of its gratification, and I wished to make all my
dependants happy, provided I could accomplish it without much trouble.
The method of doing good, which seemed to require the least exertion,
and which I, therefore, most willingly practised, was giving away money.
I did not wait to inquire, much less to examine into the merits of the
claimants; but, without selecting proper objects, I relieved myself from
the uneasy feeling of pity, by indiscriminate donations to objects
apparently the most miserable.

I was quite angry with Mr. M'Leod, my agent, and considered him as a
selfish, hard-hearted miser, because he did not seem to sympathize with
me, or to applaud my generosity. I was so much irritated by his cold
silence, that I could not forbear pressing him to say something.

"_I doubt_, then," said he, "since you desire me to speak my mind, my
lord, _I doubt_ whether the best way of encouraging the industrious is
to give premiums to the idle."

"But, idle or not, these poor wretches are so miserable, that I cannot
refuse to give them something; and, surely, when one can do it so
easily, it is right to relieve misery. Is it not?"

"Undoubtedly, my lord; but the difficulty is, to relieve present misery,
without creating more in future. Pity for one class of beings sometimes
makes us cruel to others. I am told that there are some Indian Brahmins
so very compassionate, that they hire beggars to let fleas feed upon
them: I doubt whether it might not be better to let the fleas starve."

I did not in the least understand what Mr. M'Leod meant: but I was soon
made to comprehend it, by crowds of eloquent beggars, who soon
surrounded me: many who had been resolutely struggling with their
difficulties, slackened their exertions, and left their labour for the
easier trade of imposing upon my credulity. The money I had bestowed was
wasted at the dram-shop, or it became the subject of family-quarrels;
and those whom I had _relieved_ returned to _my honour_, with fresh and
insatiable expectations. All this time my industrious tenants grumbled,
because no encouragement was given to them; and, looking upon me as a
weak good-natured fool, they combined in a resolution to ask me for long
leases, or reduction of rent.

The rhetoric of my tenants succeeded in some instances; and again I was
mortified by Mr. M'Leod's silence. I was too proud to ask his opinion. I
ordered, and was obeyed. A few leases for long terms were signed and
sealed; and when I had thus my own way completely, I could not refrain
from recurring to Mr. M'Leod's opinion.

"I doubt, my lord," said he, "whether this measure may be as
advantageous as you hope. These fellows, these middle-men, will underset
the land, and live in idleness, whilst they _rack_ a parcel of wretched
under-tenants."

"But they said they would keep the land in their own hands, and improve
it; and that the reason why they could not afford to improve before was,
that they had not long leases."

"It may be doubted whether long leases alone will make improving
tenants; for in the next county to us, there are many farms of the
dowager Lady Ormsby's land let at ten shillings an acre, and her
tenantry are beggars: and the land now, at the end of the leases, is
worn out, and worse than at their commencement."

I was weary listening to this cold reasoning, and resolved to apply no
more for explanations to Mr. M'Leod; yet in my indolence I wanted the
support of his approbation, at the very time I was jealous of his
interference.

At one time I had a mind to raise the wages of labour; but Mr. M'Leod
said, "_It might be doubted_ whether the people would not work less,
when they could with less work have money enough to support them."

I was puzzled: and then I had a mind to lower the wages of labour, to
force them to work or starve. Still provoking Mr. M'Leod said, "It might
be doubted whether it would not be better to leave them alone."

I gave marriage-portions to the daughters of my tenants, and rewards to
those who had children; for I had always heard that legislators should
encourage population. Still Mr. M'Leod hesitated to approve; he
observed, "that my estate was so populous, that the complaint in each
family was, that they had not land for the sons. _It might be doubted_
whether, if a farm could support but ten people, it were wise to
encourage the birth of twenty. _It might be doubted_ whether it were not
better for ten to live, and be well fed, than for twenty to be born, and
to be half-starved."

To encourage manufactures in my town of Glenthorn, I proposed putting a
clause in my leases, compelling my tenants to buy stuffs and linens
manufactured at Glenthorn, and no where else. Stubborn M'Leod, as usual,
began with, "_I doubt_ whether that will not encourage the manufacturers
at Glenthorn to make bad stuffs and bad linen, since they are sure of a
sale, and without danger of competition."

At all events, I thought my tenants would grow rich and _independent_,
if they made every thing _at home_ that they wanted: yet Mr. M'Leod
perplexed me by his "doubt whether it would not be better for a man to
buy shoes, if he could buy them cheaper than he could make them." He
added something about the division of labour, and Smith's Wealth of
Nations; to which I could only answer--"Smith's a Scotchman."

I cannot express how much I dreaded Mr. M'Leod's _I doubt_--and--_It
may be doubted._

From the pain of doubt, and the labour of thought, I was soon most
agreeably reprieved by the company of a Mr. Hardcastle, whose visits I
constantly encouraged by a most gracious reception. Mr. Hardcastle was
the agent of the dowager Lady Ormsby, who had a large estate in my
neighbourhood: he was the very reverse of my Mr. M'Leod in his
deportment and conversation. Talkative, self-sufficient, peremptory, he
seemed not to know what it was _to doubt_; he considered doubt as a
proof of ignorance, imbecility, or cowardice. _"Can any man doubt?"_ was
his usual beginning. On every subject of human knowledge, taste, morals,
politics, economy, legislation; on all affairs, civil, military, or
ecclesiastical, he decided at once in the most confident tone. Yet he
"never read, not he!" he had nothing to do with books; he consulted only
his own eyes and ears, and appealed only to common sense. As to theory,
he had no opinion of theory; for his part, he only pretended to
understand practice and experience--and his practice was confined
steadily to his own practice, and his experience uniformly to what he
had tried at New-town-Hardcastle.

At first I thought him a mighty clever man, and I really rejoiced to
see my _doubter_ silenced. After dinner, when he had finished
speaking in this decisive manner, I used frequently to back him with
a--_Very true--very fair--very clear_--though I understood what he
said as little as he did himself; but it was an ease to my mind to
have a disputed point settled--and I filled my glass with an air of
triumph, whilst M'Leod never contradicted my assertions, nor
controverted Mr. Hardcastle's arguments. There was still an air of
content and quiet self-satisfaction in M'Leod's very silence, which
surprised and vexed me.

One day, when Hardcastle was laying down the law upon several
subjects in his usual dictatorial manner, telling us how he managed
his people, and what order he kept them in, I was determined that
M'Leod should not enjoy the security of his silence, and I urged him
to give us his general opinion, as to the means of improving the poor
people in Ireland.

"I doubt," said M'Leod, "whether any thing effectual can be done till
they have a better education."

"Education!--Pshaw!--There it is now--these book-men," cried Hardcastle:
"Why, my dear sir, can any man alive, who knows this country, doubt that
the common people have already too much education, as it is called--a
vast deal too much? Too many of them know how to read, and write, and
cipher, which I presume is all you mean by education."

"Not entirely," said M'Leod; "a good education comprehends
something more."

"The more the worse," interrupted Hardcastle. "The more they know, the
worse they are, sir, depend on that; I know the people of this country,
sir; I have _a good right_ to know them, sir, being born amongst them,
and bred amongst them; so I think I may speak with some confidence on
these matters. And I give it as my decided humble opinion, founded on
irrefragable experience, which is what I always build upon, that the way
to ruin the poor of Ireland would be to educate them, sir. Look at the
poor scholars, as they call themselves; and what are they? a parcel of
young vagabonds in rags, with a book under their arm instead of a spade
or a shovel, sir. And what comes of this? that they grow up the
worst-disposed, and the most troublesome seditious rascals in the
community. I allow none of them about New-town-Hardcastle--none--
banished them all. Useless vagrants--hornets, vipers, sir: and show me
a quieter, better-managed set of people than I have made of mine. I go
upon experience, sir; and that's the only thing to go upon; and I'll
go no farther than New-town-Hardcastle: if that won't bring conviction
home to you, nothing will."

"I never was at New-town-Hardcastle," said M'Leod, drily.

"Well, sir, I hope it will not be the case long. But in the mean time,
my good sir, do give me leave to put it to your own common sense, what
can reading or writing do for a poor man, unless he is to be a bailiff
or an exciseman? and you know all men can't expect to be bailiffs or
excisemen. Can all the book-learning in the world, sir, dig a poor man's
potatoes for him, or plough his land, or cut his turf? Then, sir, in
this country, where's the advantage of education, I humbly ask? No, sir,
no, trust me--keep the Irish common people ignorant, and you keep 'em
quiet; and that's the only way with them; for they are too quiet and
smart, as it is, naturally. Teach them to read and write, and it's just
adding fuel to fire--fire to gunpowder, sir. Teach them any thing, and
directly you _set them up_: now it's our business to _keep them down_,
unless, sir, you'd wish to have your throat cut. Education, sir! Lord
bless your soul, sir! they have a great deal too much; they know too
much already, which makes them so refractory to the laws, and so idle. I
will go no farther than New-town-Hardcastle, to prove all this. So, my
good sir," concluded he, triumphantly, "education, I grant you, is
necessary for the rich; but tell me, if you can, what's the use of
education to the poor?"

"Much the same, I apprehend, as to the rich," answered M'Leod. "The use
of education, as I understand it, is to teach men to see clearly, and to
follow steadily, their real interests. All morality, you know, is
comprised in this definition; and--"

"Very true, sir; but all this can never apply to the poor in Ireland."

"Why, sir; are they not men?"

"Men, to be sure; but not like men in Scotland. The Irish know nothing
of their interests; and as to morality, that's out of the question: they
know nothing about it, my dear sir."

"That is the very thing of which I complain," said M'Leod. "They know
nothing, because they have been taught nothing."

"They cannot be taught, sir."

"Did you ever try?"

"I _did_, sir, no later than last week. A fellow that I caught stealing
my turf, instead of sending him to jail, I said to him, with a great
deal of lenity, My honest fellow, did you never hear of the eighth
commandment, 'Thou shalt not steal?' He confessed he had; but did not
know it was the eighth. I showed it to him, and counted it to him
myself; and set him, for a punishment, to get his whole catechism. Well,
sir, the next week I found him stealing my turf again! and when I caught
him by the wrist in the fact, he said, it was because the priest would
not let him learn the catechism I gave him, because it was a Protestant
one. Now you see, sir, there's a bar for ever to all education."

Mr. M'Leod smiled, said something about time and patience, and observed,
"that one experiment was not conclusive against a whole nation." Any
thing like a general argument Mr. Hardcastle could not comprehend. He
knew every blade of grass within the reach of his tether, but could not
reach an inch beyond. Any thing like an appeal to benevolent feelings
was lost upon him; for he was so frank in his selfishness, that he did
not even pretend to be generous. By sundry self-complacent motions he
showed whilst his adversary spoke, that he disdained to listen almost as
much as to read: but, as soon as M'Leod paused, he said, "What you
observe, sir, may possibly be very true; but I have made up my mind."
Then he went over and over again his assertions, in a louder and a
louder voice, ending with a tone of interrogation that seemed to set all
answer at defiance, "What have you to answer to me now, sir?--Can any
man alive doubt this, sir?"

M'Leod was perfectly silent. The company broke up; and, as we were going
out of the room, I maliciously asked M'Leod, why he, who could say so
much in his own defence, had suffered himself to be so completely
silenced? He answered me, in his low, deliberate voice, in the words of
Moiré--"'Qu'est-ce que la raison avec un filet de voix contre une gueule
comme celle-là?' At some other time," added Mr. M'Leod, "my sentiments
shall be at your lordship's disposal."

Indolent persons love positive people, when they are of their own
opinion; because they are saved the trouble of developing their
thoughts, or supporting their assertions: but the moment the positive
differs in sentiment from the indolent man, there is an end of the
friendship. The indolent man then hates his pertinacious adversary as
much as he loved his sturdy friend. So it happened between Mr.
Hardcastle and me. This gentleman was a prodigious favourite with me, so
long as his opinions were not in opposition to my own; but an accident
happened, which brought his love of power and mine into direct
competition, and then I found his peremptory mode of reasoning and his
ignorance absurd and insufferable.

Before I can do justice to my part of this quarrel, I must explain the
cause of the interest which I took in behalf of the persons aggrieved.
During the time that my first hot fit of benevolence was on me, I was
riding home one evening after dining with Mr. Hardcastle, and I was
struck with the sight of a cabin, more wretched than any I had ever
before beheld: the feeble light of a single rush-candle through the
window revealed its internal misery.

"Does any body live in that hovel?" said I

"Ay, sure, does there: the Noonans, plase your honour," replied a man on
the road. Noonans! I recollected the name to be that of the pugilist,
who had died in consequence of the combat at which I had been present in
London; who had, with his dying breath, besought me to convey his only
half-guinea and his silk handkerchief to his poor father and sister. I
alighted from my horse, asking the man, at the same time, if the son of
this Noonan had not died in England.

"He had, sir, a son in England, Mick Noonan, who used to send him odd
guineas, _I mind_, and was a _good lad to his father_, though wild; and
there's been no account of him at-all-at-all this long while: but the
old man has another boy, a sober lad, who's abroad with the army in the
East Indies; and it's he that is the hope of the family. And there's the
father--and old as he is, and poor, and a cripple, I'd engage there is
not a happier man in the three counties at this very time speaking: for
it is just now I seen young Jemmy Riley, the daughter's _bachelor_, go
by with a letter. What news? says I. 'Great news!' says he: 'a letter
from Tom Noonan to his father; and I'm going in to read it for him.'"

By the time my voluble informant had come to this period, I had reached
the cabin door. Who could have expected to see smiles and hear
exclamations of joy under such a roof?

I saw the father, with his hands clasped in ecstasy, and looking up to
heaven, with the strong expression of delight in his aged countenance. I
saw every line of his face; for the light of the candle was full upon
it. The daughter, a beautiful girl, kneeling beside him, held the light
for the young man, who was reading her brother's letter. I was sorry to
interrupt them.

"Your honour's kindly welcome," said the old man, making an
attempt to rise.

"Pray, don't let me disturb you."

"It was only a letter from a boy of mine that's over the seas, we was
reading," said the old man. "A better boy to an ould father, that's good
for nothing now in this world, never was, plase your honour. See what he
has sent me: a draft here for ten guineas out of the little pay he has.
God for ever bless him!--as he surely will."

After a few minutes' conversation, the old man's heart was so much
opened towards me, that he talked as freely as if he had known me for
years. I led to the subject of his other son Michael, who was mentioned
in the letter as a wild chap. "Ah! your honour, that's what lies
heaviest on my heart, and will, to my dying day, that Mick, before he
died, which they say he did surely a twelvemonth ago, over there in
England, never so much as sent me one line, good or bad, or his sister a
token to remember him by even!"

"Had he but sent us the least bit of a word, or the least token in life,
I had been content," said the sister, wiping her eyes: "we don't so much
as know how he died."

I took this moment to relate the circumstances of Michael Noonan's
death; and when I told them of his dying request about the half-guinea
and the silk handkerchief, they were all so much touched, that they
utterly forgot the ten-guinea draft, which I saw on the ground, in the
dirt, under the old man's feet, whilst he contemplated the half-guinea
which his _poor Michael_ had sent him: repeating, "Poor fellow! poor
fellow! 'twas all he had in the world. God bless him!--Poor Michael! he
was a wild chap! but none better to his parents than he while the life
was in him. Poor Michael!"

In no country have I found such strong instances of filial affection
as in Ireland. Let the sons go where they may, let what will befall
them, they never forget their parents at home: they write to them
constantly the most affectionate letters, and send them a share of
whatever they earn.

When I asked the daughter of this Noonan, why she had not married? the
old man answered, "That's her own fault--if it be a fault to abide by an
old father. She wastes her youth here, in the way your honour sees,
tending him who has none other to mind him."

"Oh! let alone _that_," said the girl, with a cheerful smile; "we be too
poor to think of marrying yet, by a great deal! so, father dear, you're
no hinderance any way. For don't I know, and doesn't Jemmy there know,
that it's a sin and a shame, as my mother used to say, for them that
have nothing, to marry and set up house-keeping, like the rogue that
ruined my father?"

"That's true," said the young man, with a heavy sigh; "but times will
mend, or we'll strive and mend them, with the blessing of God."

I left this miserable but in admiration of the generosity of its
inhabitants. I desired the girl to come to Glenthorn Castle the next
day, that I might give her the silk handkerchief which her poor brother
had sent her. The more I inquired into the circumstances of this family,
the more cause I found for pity and approbation. The old man had been a
good farmer in his day, as the traditions of the aged, and the memories
of the young, were ready to witness; but he was unfortunately joined in
_co-partnership_ with a drunken rogue, who ran away, and left an arrear
of rent, which ruined Noonan. Mr. Hardcastle, the agent, called upon him
to pay it, and sold all that the old man possessed; and this being
insufficient to discharge the debt, he was forced to give up his farm,
and retire, with his daughter, to this hovel; and soon afterwards he
lost the use of his side by a paralytic stroke.

I was so much pleased with the goodness of these poor people, that, in
despite of my indolent disposition, I bestirred myself the very next day
to find a better habitation for them on my own estate. I settled them,
infinitely to their satisfaction, in a small farm; and the girl married
her lover, who undertook to manage the farm for the old man. To my utter
surprise, I found that Mr. Hardcastle was affronted by the part I took
in this affair. He complained that I had behaved in a very
ungentlemanlike manner, and had spirited the tenants away from Lady
Ormsby's estate, against the regulation which he had laid down for all
_the_ tenants not to _emigrate_ from _the estate_. Jemmy Riley, it
seems, was one of the _cotters_ on the Ormsby estate, a circumstance
with which I was unacquainted; indeed I scarcely at that time understood
what was meant by a _cotter_. Mr. Hardcastle's complaint, in matter and
manner, was unintelligible to me; but I was quite content to leave off
visiting him, as he left off visiting me--but here the matter did not
stop. This over-wise and over-busy gentleman took upon him, amongst
other offices, the regulation of the markets in the town of Ormsby; and
as he apprehended, for reasons best and only known to himself, a year of
scarcity, he thought fit to keep down the price of oats and potatoes. He
would allow none to be sold in the market of Ormsby but at the price
which he stipulated. The poor people grumbled, and, to remedy the
injustice, made private bargains with each other. He had information of
this, and seized the corn that was selling above the price he had fixed.
Young Riley, Noonan's son-in-law, came to me to complain, that _his
little oats were seized and detained._ I remonstrated. Hardcastle
resented the appeal to me, and bid him wait and be damned. The young
man, who was rather of a hasty temper, and who did not much like either
to wait or be damned, seized his own oats, and was marching off, when
they were recaptured by Hardcastle's bailiff, whom young Riley knocked
down; and who, as soon as he got up again, went _straight_ and swore
examinations against Riley. Then I was offended, as I had a right to be,
by the custom of the country, with the magistrate who took an
examination against my tenant, without writing first to me. Then there
was a race between the examinations of _my_ justice of peace and _his_
justice of peace. My indolence was conquered by my love of power: I
supported the contest; the affair came before our grand jury: I
conquered, and Mr. Hardcastle was ever after, of course, my enemy. To
English ears the possessive pronouns _my_ and _his_ may sound
extraordinary, prefixed to a justice of peace; but, in many parts of
Ireland, this language is perfectly correct. A great man talks of
_making_ a justice of the peace with perfect confidence; a very great
man talks with as much certainty of _making_ a sheriff; and a sheriff
makes the jury; and the jury makes the law. We must not forget, however,
that in England, during the reign of Elizabeth, a member of parliament
defined a justice of peace to be "an animal, who for half a dozen
chickens will dispense with half a dozen penal statutes." Time is
necessary to enforce the sanctions of legislation and civilization--But
I am anticipating reflections which I made at a much later period of my
life. To return to my history.

My benevolence was soon checked by slight disappointments. Ellinor's
cottage, which I had taken so much pains to build, became a source of
mortification to me. One day I found my old nurse sitting at her wheel,
in the midst of the wreck and litter of all sorts of household
furniture, singing her favourite song of

    "There was a lady loved a swine:
    Honey! says she,
    I'll give ye a silver trough.
    _Hunk!_ says he!"

Ellinor seemed, alas! to have as little taste for the luxuries with
which I had provided her as the pig had for the silver trough. What I
called conveniences were to her incumbrances: she had not been used to
them; she was put out of her way; and it was a daily torment to one of
her habits, to keep her house clean and neat.

There may be, as some philosophers assure us that there is, an innate
love of order in the human mind; but of this instinctive principle my
poor Ellinor was totally destitute. Her ornamented farm-house became, in
a wonderfully short time, a scene of dirt, rubbish, and confusion. There
was a partition between two rooms, which had been built with turf or
peat, instead of bricks, by the wise economy I had employed. Of course,
this was pulled down to get at the turf. The stairs also were pulled
down and burned, though there was no scarcity of firing. As the walls
were plastered and papered before they were quite dry, the paper grew
mouldy, and the plaster fell off. In the hurry of finishing, some of the
woodwork had but one coat of paint. In Ireland they have not faith in
the excellent Dutch proverb, _"Paint costs nothing."_ I could not get my
workmen to give a second coat of paint to any of the sashes, and the
wood decayed: divers panes of glass in the windows were broken, and
their places filled up with shoes, an old hat, or a bundle of rags. Some
of the slates were blown off one windy night: the slater lived at ten
miles distance, and before the slates were replaced, the rain came in,
and Ellinor was forced to make a bedchamber of the parlour, and then of
the kitchen, retreating from corner to corner as the rain pursued, till,
at last, when "it _would_ come _every way_ upon her bed," she petitioned
me to let her take the slates off and thatch the house; for a
slated-house, she said, was never so warm as a _tatched cabin_; and as
there was no smoke, she was _kilt_ with the _cowld_.

In my life I never felt so angry. I was ten times more angry than when
Crawley ran away with my wife. In a paroxysm of passion, I reproached
Ellinor with being a savage, an Irish-woman, and an ungrateful fool.

"Savage I am, for any thing I know; and _fool_ I am, that's certain;
but ungrateful I am not," said she, bursting into tears. She went home
and took to her bed; and the next thing I heard from her son was, "that
she was _lying in the rheumatism_, which had kept her awake many a long
night, before she would come to complain to my honour of the house, in
dread that I should blame myself for _sending of_ her into it _afore_
it was dry."

The rheumatism reconciled me immediately to Ellinor; I let her take her
own way, and thatch the house, and have as much smoke as she pleased,
and she recovered. But I did not entirely recover my desire to do good
to my poor tenants. After forming, in the first enthusiasm of my
benevolence, princely schemes for their advantage, my ardour was damped,
and my zeal discouraged, by a few slight disappointments.

I did not consider, that there is often, amongst uncultivated people, a
mixture of obstinate and lazy content, which makes them despise the
luxuries of their richer neighbours; like those mountaineers, who, proud
of their own hard fare,[80] out of a singular species of contempt, call
the inhabitants of the plains _mange-rotis_, "eaters of roast meat." I
did not consider that it must take time to change local and national
habits and prejudices; and that it is necessary to raise a taste for
comforts, before they can be properly enjoyed.

In the pettishness of my disappointment, I decided that it was in vain
to attempt to improve and civilize such people as the Irish. I did not
recollect, perhaps at that time I did not know, that even in the days of
the great Queen Elizabeth, "the greatest part of the buildings in the
cities and good towns of England consisted only of timber, cast over
with thick clay to keep out the wind. The new houses of the nobility
were indeed either of brick or stone; and glass windows were then
beginning to be used in England:"[81] and clean rushes were strewed over
the dirty floors of the royal palace. In the impatience of my zeal for
improvement, I expected to do the work of two hundred years in a few
months: and because I could not accelerate the progress of refinement in
this miraculous manner, I was out of humour with myself and with a whole
nation. So easily is the humanity of the rich and great disgusted and
discouraged! as if any people could be civilized in a moment, and at the
word of command of ignorant pride or despotic benevolence!




CHAPTER IX.


    "He saw--and but that admiration
    Had been too active, too like passion,
    Or had he been to _ton_ less true,
    Cupid had shot him through and through."

I have not thought it necessary to record every visit that I received
from all my country neighbours; but I must now mention one, which led to
important consequences; a visit from Sir Harry Ormsby, a very young
dashing man of fortune, who, in expectation of the happy moment when he
should be of age, resided with his mother, the dowager Lady Ormsby. Her
ladyship had heard that there had been some disagreement between her
agent, Mr. Hardcastle, and _my people_; but she took the earliest
opportunity of expressing her wishes, that our families should be on an
amicable footing.

Lady Ormsby was just come to the country, with a large party of her
fashionable friends--some Irish, some English: Lord and Lady Kilrush; my
Lady Kildangan, and her daughter the Lady Geraldine ------; the knowing
widow O'Connor; the English _dasher_, Lady Hauton; the interesting Mrs.
Norton, _separated_ but not _parted_ from her husband; the pleasant Miss
Bland; the three Miss Ormsbys, better known by the name of the
Swanlinbar Graces; two English aides-de-camp from the Castle, and a
brace of brigadiers; besides other men of inferior note.

I perceived that Sir Harry Ormsby took it for granted that I must be
acquainted with the pretensions of all these persons to celebrity; his
talkativeness and my taciturnity favoured me so fortunately, that he
never discovered the extent of my ignorance. He was obligingly impatient
to make me personally acquainted "with those of whom I must have heard
so much in England." Observing that Ormsby Villa was too far from
Glenthorn Castle for a morning visit, he pressed me to waive ceremony,
and to do Lady Ormsby and him the honour of spending a week with them,
as soon as I could make it convenient. I accepted this invitation,
partly from a slight emotion of curiosity, and partly from my habitual
inability to resist any reiterated importunity.

Arrived at Ormsby Villa, and introduced to this crowd of people, I was
at first disappointed by seeing nothing extraordinary. I expected that
their manners would have been as strange to me as some of their names
appeared: but whether it was from my want of the powers of
discrimination, or from the real sameness of the objects, I could
scarcely, in this fashionable flock, discern any individual marks of
distinction. At first view, the married ladies appeared much the same as
those of a similar class in England, whom I had been accustomed to see.
The young ladies I thought, as usual, "best distinguished by black,
brown, and fair:" but I had not yet seen Lady Geraldine ------; and a
great part Of the conversation, the first day I was at Ormsby Villa, was
filled with lamentations on the unfortunate tooth-ache, which prevented
her ladyship from appearing. She was talked of so much, and as a person
of such importance, and so essential to the amusement of society, that I
could not help feeling a slight wish to see her. The next day at
breakfast she did not appear; but, five minutes before dinner, her
ladyship's humble companion whispered, "Now Lady Geraldine is coming, my
lord." I was always rather displeased to be called upon to attend to any
thing or any body, yet as Lady Geraldine entered, I gave one involuntary
glance of curiosity. I saw a tall, finely-shaped woman, with the
commanding air of a woman of rank; she moved well; not with feminine
timidity, but with ease, promptitude, and decision. She had fine eyes
and a fine complexion, yet no regularity of feature. The only thing that
struck me as really extraordinary was her indifference when I was
introduced to her. Every body had seemed extremely desirous that I
should see her ladyship, and that her ladyship should see me; and I was
rather surprised by her unconcerned air. This piqued me, and fixed my
attention. She turned from me, and began to converse with others. Her
voice was agreeable: she did not speak with the Irish accent; but, when
I listened maliciously, I detected certain Hibernian inflections;
nothing of the vulgar Irish idiom, but something that was more
interrogative, more exclamatory, and perhaps more rhetorical, than the
common language of English ladies, accompanied with much animation of
countenance and demonstrative gesture. This appeared to me peculiar and
unusual, but not affected. She was uncommonly eloquent, and yet, without
action, her words were not sufficiently rapid to express her ideas. Her
manner appeared foreign, yet it was not quite French. If I had been
obliged to decide, I should, however, have pronounced it rather more
French than English. To determine what it was, or whether I had ever
seen any thing similar, I stood considering her ladyship with more
attention than I had ever bestowed on any other woman. The words
_striking--fascinating--bewitching_, occurred to me as I looked at her
and heard her speak. I resolved to turn my eyes away, and shut my ears;
for I was positively determined not to like her, I dreaded so much the
idea of a second Hymen. I retreated to the farthest window, and looked
out very soberly upon a dirty fish-pond. Dinner was announced. I
observed Lady Kildangan manoeuvring to place me beside her daughter
Geraldine, but Lady Geraldine counteracted this movement. I was again
surprised and piqued. After yielding the envied position to one of the
Swanlinbar Graces, I heard Lady Geraldine whisper to her next neighbour,
"Baffled, mamma!"

It was strange to me to feel piqued by a young lady's not choosing to
sit beside me. After dinner, I left the gentlemen as soon as possible,
because the conversation wearied me. Lord Kilrush, the chief orator, was
a courtier, and could talk of nothing but Dublin Castle, and my lord
lieutenant's levees. The moment that I went to the ladies, I was seized
upon by the officious Miss Bland: she could not speak of any thing but
Lady Geraldine, who sat at so great a distance, and who was conversing
with such animation herself, that she could not hear her _prôneuse_,
Miss Bland, inform me, that "her friend, Lady Geraldine, was extremely
clever; so clever, that many people were at first a little afraid of
her; but that there was not the least occasion; for that, where she
liked, nobody could be more affable and engaging." This judicious
friend, a minute afterwards, told me, as a very great secret, that Lady
Geraldine was an admirable mimic; that she could draw or speak
caricatures; that she was also wonderfully happy in the invention of
agnomens and cognomens, so applicable to the persons, that they could
scarcely be forgotten or forgiven. I was a little anxious to know
whether her ladyship would honour me with an agnomen. I could not learn
this from Miss Bland, and I was too prudent to betray my curiosity: I
afterwards heard it, however. Pairing me and Mr. M'Leod, whom she had
seen together, her ladyship observed, that _Sawney_ and _Yawney_ were
made for each other; and she sketched, in strong caricature, my relaxed
elongation of limb, and his rigid rectangularity. A slight degree of
fear of Lady Geraldine's powers kept my attention alert. In the course
of the evening, Lady Kildangan summoned her daughter to the music-room,
and asked me to come and hear an Irish song. I exerted myself so far as
to follow immediately; but though summoned, Lady Geraldine did not obey.
Miss Bland tuned the harp, and opened the music-books on the piano; but
no Lady Geraldine appeared. Miss Bland was sent backwards and forwards
with messages; but Lady Geraldine's ultimatum was, that she could not
possibly sing, because she was afraid of the tooth-ache. God knows, her
mouth had never been shut all the evening. "Well, but," said Lady
Kildangan, "she can play for us, cannot she?" No; her ladyship was
afraid of the cold in the music-room. "Do, my Lord Glenthorn, go and
tell the dear capricious creature, that we are very warm here."

Very reluctantly I obeyed. The Lady Geraldine, with her circle round
her, heard and answered me with the air of a princess.

"Do you the honour to play for you, my lord! Excuse me: I am no
professor--I play so ill, that I make it a rule never to play but for my
own amusement. If you wish for music, there is Miss Bland; she plays
incomparably, and I dare say will think herself happy to oblige your
lordship." I never felt so silly, or so much abashed, as at this
instant. "This comes," thought I, "of acting out of character. What
possessed me to exert myself to ask a lady to play? I, that have been
tired to death of music! Why did I let myself be sent ambassador, when I
had no interest in the embassy?"

To convince myself and others of my apathy, I threw myself on a
sofa, and never stirred or spoke the remainder of the night. I
presume I appeared fast asleep, else Lady Geraldine would not have
said, within my hearing, "Mamma wants me to catch somebody, and to
be caught by somebody; but that will not be; for, do you know, I
think somebody is nobody."

I was offended as much as it was in my nature to be offended, and I
began to meditate apologies for shortening my visit at Ormsby Villa:
but, though I was shocked by the haughtiness of Lady Geraldine, and
accused her, in my own mind, of want of delicacy and politeness, yet I
could not now suspect her of being an accomplice with her mother in any
matrimonial designs upon me. From the moment I was convinced of this, my
conviction was, I suppose, visible to her ladyship's penetrating eyes,
and from that instant she showed me that she could be polite and
agreeable. Now, soothed to a state of ease and complacency, I might have
sunk to indifference and ennui, but fresh singularities in this lady
struck me, and kept my attention awake and fixed upon her character. If
she had treated me with tolerable civility at first, I never should have
thought about her. High-born and high-bred, she seemed to consider more
what she thought of others than what others thought of her. Frank,
candid, and affable, yet opinionated, insolent, and an egotist, her
candour and affability appeared the effect of a naturally good temper,
her insolence and egotism only those of a spoiled child. She seemed to
talk of herself purely to oblige others, as the most interesting
possible topic of conversation; for such it had always been to her fond
mother, who idolized her ladyship as an only daughter, and the
representative of an ancient house. Confident of her talents, conscious
of her charms, and secure of her station, Lady Geraldine gave free scope
to her high spirits, her fancy, and her turn for ridicule. She looked,
spoke, and acted, like a person privileged to think, say, and do, what
she pleased. Her raillery, like the raillery of princes, was without
fear of retort. She was not ill-natured, yet careless to whom she gave
offence, provided she produced amusement; and in this she seldom failed;
for, in her conversation, there was much of the raciness of Irish wit,
and the oddity of Irish humour. The singularity that struck me most
about her ladyship was her indifference to flattery. She certainly
preferred frolic. Miss Bland was her humble companion; Miss Tracey her
_butt_. Her ladyship appeared to consider Miss Bland as a necessary
appendage to her rank and person, like her dress or her shadow; and she
seemed to think no more of the one than of the other. She suffered Miss
Bland to follow her; but she would go in quest of n Miss Tracey. Miss
Bland was allowed to speak; but her ladyship listened to Miss Tracey.
Miss Bland seldom obtained an answer; but Miss Tracey never opened her
lips without a repartee.

In describing Miss Tracey, Lady Geraldine said, "Poor simpleton! she
cannot help imitating all she sees us do; yet, would you believe it, she
really has starts of common sense, and some tolerable ideas of her own.
Spoiled by bad company! In the language of the bird-fanciers, she has a
few notes nightingale, and all the rest rubbish."

It was one of Lady Geraldine's delights to humour Miss Tracey's rage for
imitating the fashions of fine people.

"Now you shall see Miss Tracey appear at the ball to-morrow, in every
thing that I have sworn to her is fashionable. Nor have I cheated her in
a single article: but the _tout ensemble_ I leave to her better
judgment; and you shall see her, I trust, a perfect monster, formed of
every creature's best: Lady Kilrush's feathers, Mrs. Moore's wig, Mrs.
O'Connor's gown, Mrs. Lighton's sleeves, and all the necklaces of all
the Miss Ormsbys. She has no taste, no judgment; none at all, poor
thing! but she can imitate as well as those Chinese painters, who, in
their drawings, give you the flower of one plant stuck on the stalk of
another, and garnished with the leaves of a third."

Miss Tracey's appearance the ensuing night justified all Lady
Geraldine's predictions, and surpassed her ladyship's most sanguine
hopes. Even I, albeit unused to the laughing mood, could not forbear
smiling at the humour and ease with which her ladyship played off this
girl's credulous vanity.

At breakfast the next morning, Lord Kilrush, in his grave manner (always
too solemn by half for the occasion), declared, "that no man was more
willing than himself to enter into a jest in proper time, and season,
and measure, and so forth; but that it was really, positively, morally
unjustifiable, in _his_ apprehension, _the making_ this poor girl so
publicly ridiculous."

"My good lord," replied Lady Geraldine, "all the world are ridiculous
some way or other: some in public, some in private. Now," continued she,
with an appealing look to the whole company, "now, after all, what is
there more extravagant in my Miss Tracey's delighting, at sixteen, in
six yards of pink riband, than in your courtier sighing, at sixty, for
three yards of blue riband? or what is there more ridiculous in her
coming simpering into a ball-room, fancying herself the mirror of
fashion, when she is a figure for a print-shop, than in the courtier
rising solemnly in the House of Lords, believing himself an orator, and
expecting to make a vast reputation, by picking up, in every debate, the
very worst arguments that every body else let fall? There would be no
living in this world, if we were all to see and expose one another's
_ridicules_. My plan is much the best--to help my friends to expose
themselves, and then they are infinitely obliged to me."

Satisfied with silencing all opposition, and seeing that the majority
was with her, Lady Geraldine persisted in her course; and I was glad she
was incorrigible, because her faults entertained me. As to love, I
thought I was perfectly safe; because, though I admired her quickness
and cleverness, yet I still, at times, perceived, or fancied I
perceived, some want of polish, and elegance, and _tact_. She was not
exactly cut out according to my English pattern of a woman of fashion;
so I thought I might amuse myself without danger, as it was partly at
her ladyship's expense. But about this time I was alarmed for myself by
a slight twinge of jealousy. As I was standing lounging upon the steps
at the hall-door, almost as ennuyé as usual, I saw a carriage at a
distance, between the trees, driving up the _approach_; and, at the same
instant, I heard Lady Geraldine's eager voice in the hall, "Oh! they are
coming; he is coming; they are come. Run, Miss Bland, run, and give Lord
Craiglethorpe my message before he gets out of the carriage--before any
body sees him."

Afraid of hearing what I should not hear, I walked down the steps
deliberately, and turned into a shrubbery-walk, to leave the coast
clear. Out ran Miss Bland: and then it was that I felt the twinge--very
slight, however. "Who is this Lord Craiglethorpe, with whom Lady
Geraldine is on such favourable terms? I wonder what kind of looking man
he is; and what could _the message_ mean?--but, at all events, it cannot
concern me; yet I am curious to see this Lord Craiglethorpe. I wonder
any woman can like a man with so strange a name: but does she like him,
after all?--Why do I plague myself about it?"

As I returned from my saunter, I was met by Miss Bland.

"A charming day, ma'am," said I, endeavouring to pass on.

"A charming day, my lord! But I must stop your lordship a moment. Oh, I
am so out of breath--I went the wrong way----"

"The wrong way! Indeed! I am sorry. I am concerned you should have had
so much trouble."

"No trouble in the world. Only I want to beg you'll keep our secret--my
Lady Geraldine's secret."

"Undoubtedly, madam--a man of honour--Lady Geraldine cannot doubt--her
ladyship's secret is perfectly safe."

"But do you know it? You don't know it yet, my lord."

"Pardon me; I was on the steps just now. I thought you saw me."

"I did, my lord--but I don't understand----"

"Nor I, neither," interrupted I, half laughing; for I began to think I
was mistaken in my suspicions; "pray explain yourself, my dear Miss
Bland: I was very rude to be so quick in interrupting you."

Miss Bland then made me the confidant of a charming scheme of Lady
Geraldine's for quizzing Miss Tracey.

"She has never in her life seen Lord Craiglethorpe, who is an English
lord travelling through Ireland," continued Miss Bland. "Now, you must
know, that Miss Tracey is passionately fond of lords, let them be what
they may. Now, Lord Craiglethorpe, this very morning, sent his groom
with a note and excuse to Lady Ormsby, for not coming to us to-day;
because, he said, he was bringing down in the chaise with him a
surveyor, to survey his estate _near here_; and he could not possibly
think of bringing the surveyor, who is a low man, to Ormsby Villa. But
Lady Ormsby would take no apology, and wrote by the groom to beg that
Lord Craiglethorpe would make no scruple of bringing the surveyor; for
you know she is so polite and accommodating, and all that. Well, the
note was scarcely gone, before Lady Geraldine thought of her charming
scheme, and regretted, _of all things_, she had not put _it_ into it."

"_It into it!_" repeated I to myself. "Ma'am," said I, looking a little
bewildered.

"But," continued my clear narrator, "I promised to remedy _all that_, by
running to meet the carriage, which was what I ran for when you saw me,
my lord, in such a hurry."

I bowed--and was as wise as ever.

"So, my lord, you comprehend, that the surveyor, whose name, whose
odious name, is Gabbitt, is to be my Lord Craiglethorpe, and my Lord
Craiglethorpe is to be passed for Mr. Gabbitt upon Miss Tracey; and, you
will see, Miss Tracey will admire Mr. Gabbitt prodigiously, and call him
vastly genteel, when she thinks him a lord. Your lordship will keep our
secret; and she is sure Lord Craiglethorpe will do any thing to oblige
her, because he is a near connexion of hers. But, I assure you, it is
not every body could get Lord Craiglethorpe to join in a joke; for he is
very stiff, and cold, and high. Of course your lordship will know which
is the real lord at first sight. He is a full head taller than Gabbitt."

Never was explanation finally more satisfactory: and whether the jest
was really well contrived and executed, or whether I was put into a
humour to think so, I cannot exactly determine; but, I confess, I was
amused with the scenes that followed, though I felt that they were not
quite justifiable even in jest.

The admiration of Miss Tracey for _the false Craiglethorpe_, as Lady
Geraldine called Mr. Gabbitt; the awkwardness of Mr. Gabbitt with his
title, and the awkwardness of Lord Craiglethorpe without it, were fine
subjects of her ladyship's satirical humour.

In another point of view, Lord Craiglethorpe afforded her ladyship
amusement; as an English traveller, full of English prejudices against
Ireland and every thing Irish. Whenever Miss Tracey was out of the room,
Lady Geraldine allowed Lord Craiglethorpe to be himself again; but he
did not fare the better for this restoration to his honours. Lady
Geraldine contrived to make him as ridiculous in his real as in his
assumed character. Lord Craiglethorpe was, as Miss Bland had described
him, very stiff, cold, and _high_. His manners were in the extreme of
English reserve, and his ill-bred show of contempt for the Irish was
sufficient provocation and justification of Lady Geraldine's ridicule.
He was much in awe of his fair and witty cousin: she could easily put
him out of countenance, for he was extremely bashful.

His lordship had that sort of bashfulness which makes a man surly and
obstinate in his taciturnity; which makes him turn upon all who approach
him, as if they were going to assault him; which makes him answer a
question as if it were an injury, and repel a compliment as if it were
an insult. Once, when he was out of the room, Lady Geraldine exclaimed,
"That cousin Craiglethorpe of mine is scarcely an agreeable man: the
awkwardness of _mauvaise honte_ might be pitied and pardoned, even in a
nobleman," continued her ladyship, "if it really proceeded from
humility; but here, when I know it is connected with secret and
inordinate arrogance, 'tis past all endurance. Even his ways of sitting
and standing provoke me, they are so self-sufficient. Have you observed
how he stands at the fire? Oh, the caricature of '_the English
fire-side_' outdone! Then, if he sits, we hope that change of posture
may afford our eyes transient relief: but worse again; bolstered up,
with his back against his chair, his hands in his pockets, and his legs
thrown out, in defiance of all passengers and all decorum, there he
sits, in magisterial silence, throwing a gloom upon all conversation. As
the Frenchman said of the Englishman, for whom even his politeness could
not find another compliment, 'Il faut avouer que ce monsieur a un grand
talent pour le silence;' he holds his tongue, till the people actually
believe that he has something to say; a mistake they could never fall
into if he would but speak."

Some of the company attempted to interpose a word or two in favour
of Lord Craiglethorpe's timidity, but the vivacious and merciless
lady went on.

"I tell you, my good friends, it is not timidity--it is all pride. I
would pardon his dulness, and even his ignorance; for one, as you say,
might be the fault of his nature, and the other of his education: but
his self-sufficiency is his own fault, and that I will not, and cannot
pardon. Somebody says, that nature may make a fool, but a coxcomb is
always of his own making. Now, my cousin--(as he is my cousin, I may say
what I please of him)--my cousin Craiglethorpe is a solemn coxcomb, who
thinks, because his vanity is not talkative and sociable, that it's not
vanity. What a mistake! his silent superciliousness is to me more
intolerable than the most garrulous egotism that ever laid itself open
to my ridicule."

Miss Bland and Miss Ormsby both confessed that Lord Craiglethorpe was
vastly too silent.

"For the honour of my country," continued Lady Geraldine, "I am
determined to make this man talk, and he shall say all that I know he
thinks of us poor Irish savages. If he would but speak, one could
answer him: if he would find fault, one might defend: if he would
laugh, one might perhaps laugh again: but here he comes to hospitable,
open-hearted Ireland; eats as well as he can in his own country; drinks
better than he can in his own country; sleeps as well as he can in his
own country; accepts all our kindness without a word or a look of
thanks, and seems the whole time to think, that, 'Born for his use, we
live but to oblige him.' There he is at this instant: look at him,
walking in the park, with his note-book in his hand, setting down our
faults, and conning them by rote. We are even with him. I understand,
Lady Kilrush, that my bright cousin Craiglethorpe means to write a
book, a great book, upon Ireland."

Lady Kilrush replied, that she understood Lord Craiglethorpe had it in
contemplation to publish a Tour through Ireland, or a View of Ireland,
or something of that nature.

"He! with his means of acquiring information!" exclaimed Lady Geraldine.
"Posting from one great man's house to another, what can he see or know
of the manners of any rank of people but of the class of gentry, which
in England and Ireland is much the same? As to the lower classes, I
don't think he ever speaks to them; or, if he does, what good can it do
him? for he can't understand their modes of expression, nor they his: if
he inquire about a matter of fact, I defy him to get the truth out of
them, if they don't wish to tell it; and, for some reason or other, they
will, nine times in ten, not wish to tell it to an Englishman. There is
not a man, woman, or child, in any cabin in Ireland, who would not have
wit and _'cuteness_ enough to make _my lard_ believe just what they
please. So, after posting from Dublin to Cork, and from the Giants'
Causeway to Killarney; after travelling east, west, north, and south, my
wise cousin Craiglethorpe will know just as much of the lower Irish as
the cockney who has never been out of London, and who has never, _in all
his born days_, seen an Irishman but on the English stage; where the
representations are usually as like the originals, as the Chinese
pictures of lions, drawn from description, are to the real animal."

"Now! now! look at his lordship!" cried Miss Bland; "he has his
note-book out again."

"Mercy on us!" said Miss Callwell, "how he is writing!"

"Yes, yes, write on, my good cousin Craiglethorpe," pursued Lady
Geraldine, "and nil the little note-book, which will soon turn to a
ponderous quarto. I shall have a copy, bound in morocco, no doubt, _from
the author_, if I behave myself prettily; and I will earn it, by
supplying valuable information. You shall see, my friends, how I'll
deserve well of my country, if you'll only keep my counsel and your own
countenances."

Presently Lord Craiglethorpe entered the room, walking very pompously,
and putting his note-book up as he advanced.

"Oh, my dear lord, open the book again; I have a bull for you."

Lady Geraldine, after putting his lordship in good humour by this
propitiatory offering of a bull, continued to supply him, either
directly or indirectly, by some of her confederates, with the most
absurd anecdotes, incredible _facts_, stale jests, and blunders, such as
were never made by true-born Irishmen; all which my Lord Craiglethorpe
took down with an industrious sobriety, at which the spectators could
scarcely refrain from laughing. Sometimes he would pause, and exclaim,
"A capital anecdote! a curious fact! May I give my authority? may I
quote your ladyship?"

"Yes, if you'll pay me a compliment in the preface," whispered
Lady Geraldine: "and now, dear cousin, do go up stairs _and put it
all in ink._"

When she had despatched the noble author, her ladyship indulged her
laughter. "But now," cried she, "only imagine a set of sober English
readers studying my cousin Craiglethorpe's New View of Ireland, and
swallowing all the nonsense it will contain!"

When Lord Kilrush remonstrated against the cruelty of letting the man
publish such stuff, and represented it as a fraud upon the public, Lady
Geraldine laughed still more, and exclaimed, "Surely you don't think I
would use the public and my poor cousin so ill. No, I am doing him and
the public the greatest possible service. Just when he is going to leave
us, when the writing-box is packed, I will step up to him, and tell him
the truth. I will show him what a farrago of nonsense he has collected
as materials for his quarto; and convince him at once how utterly unfit
he is to write a book, at least a book on Irish affairs. Won't this be
deserving well of my country and of my cousin?"

Neither on this occasion, nor on any other, were the remonstrances of my
Lord Kilrush of power to stop the course of this lady's flow of spirits
and raillery.

Whilst she was going on in this manner with the real Lord Craiglethorpe,
Miss Tracey was taking charming walks in the park with Mr. Gabbitt, and
the young lady began to be seriously charmed with her false lord. This
was carrying the jest farther, than Lady Geraldine had intended or
foreseen; and her good-nature would probably have disposed her
immediately to dissolve the enchantment, had she not been provoked by
the interference of Lord Kilrush, and the affected sensibility of Miss
Clementina Ormsby, who, to give me an exalted opinion of her delicacy,
expostulated incessantly in favour of the deluded fair one. "But, my
dear Lady Geraldine, I do assure you, it really hurts my feelings. This
is going too far--when it comes to the heart. I can't laugh, I own--the
poor girl's affections will be engaged--she is really falling in love
with this odious surveyor."

"But now, my dear Clementina, I do assure you, it really hurts my
feelings to hear you talk so childishly. 'When it comes to the heart!'
'affections engaged!' You talk of falling in love as if it were a
terrible fall: for my part, I should pity a person much more for falling
down stairs. Why, my dear, where is the mighty height from which Miss
Tracey could fall? She does not live in the clouds, Clementina, as you
do. No ladies live there now; for the best of all possible reasons,
because there are no men there. So, my love, make haste and come down,
before you are out of your teens, or you may chance to be left there
till you are an angel or an old maid. Trust me, my dear, I, who have
tried, tell you, there is no such thing as falling in love, now-a-days:
you may slip, slide, or stumble; but to fall in love, I defy you."

I saw Lady Kildangan's eyes fix upon me as her daughter pronounced the
last sentence.

"Geraldine, my dear, you do not know what you are talking about," said
her ladyship. "Your time may come, Geraldine. Nobody should be too
courageous. Cupid does not like to be defied."

Lady Kildangan walked away as she spoke, with a very well-satisfied air,
leaving a party of us young people together. Lady Geraldine looked
haughtily vexed. When in this mood, her wit gave no quarter; spared
neither sex nor age.

"Every body says," whispered she, "that mamma is the most artful woman
in the world; and I should believe it, only that every body says it:
now, if it were true, nobody would know it."

Lady Geraldine's air of disdain towards me was resumed. I did not quite
understand. Was it pride? was it coquetry? She certainly blushed deeply,
and for the first time that I ever saw her blush, when her mother said,
"Your time may come, Geraldine."

My week being now at an end, I resolved to take my leave. When I
announced this resolution, I was assailed with the most pressing
entreaties to stay a few days longer--one day longer. Lady Ormsby and
Sir Harry said every thing that could be said upon the occasion:
indeed, it seemed a matter of general interest to all, except to Lady
Geraldine. She appeared wholly indifferent, and I was not even
gratified by any apparent affectation of desiring my departure.
Curiosity to see whether this would be sustained by her ladyship to the
last, gave me resolution sufficient to resist the importunities of Sir
Harry; and I departed, rejoicing that my indifference was equal to her
ladyship's. As Tasso said of some fair one, whom he met at the carnival
of Mantua, _I ran some risk of falling in love._ I had been so far
roused from my habitual apathy that I actually made some reflections.
As I returned home, I began to perceive that there was some difference
between woman and woman, besides the distinctions of rank, fortune, and
figure. I think I owe to Lady Geraldine my first relish for wit, and my
first idea that a woman might be, if not a reasonable, at least a
companionable animal. I compared her ladyship with the mere puppets and
parrots of fashion, of whom I had been wearied; and I began to suspect
that one might find, in a lady's "lively nonsense," a relief from
ennui. These reflections, however, did not prevent me from sleeping the
greatest part of the morning on my way home; nor did I dream of any
thing that I can remember.

At the porter's lodge I saw Ellinor sitting at her spinning-wheel; and
my thoughts took up my domestic affairs just where I had left them the
preceding week.




CHAPTER X.


In vain I attempted to interest myself in my domestic affairs; the
silence and solitude of my own castle appeared to me intolerably
melancholy, after my return from Ormsby Villa. There was a blank in my
existence during a week, in which I can remember nothing that I did,
said, or thought, except what passed during one ride, which Mr. McLeod
compelled my politeness to take with him. He came with the same face to
see me, and the same set of ideas, as those he had before I went to
Ormsby Villa. He began to talk of my schemes for improving my tenantry,
and of my wish that he should explain his notions relative to the
education of the poor of Ireland, which, he said, as I now seemed to be
at leisure, he was ready to do as concisely as possible. _As concisely
as possible_ were the only words of his address that I heard with
satisfaction; but of course I bowed, said I was much obliged, and I
should be happy to have the advantage of Mr. M'Leod's opinions and
sentiments. What these were I cannot recollect, for I settled myself in
a reverie soon after his voice began to sound upon my ear; but I
remember at last he wakened me, by proposing that I should ride with him
to see a school-house and some cottages, which he had built on a little
estate of his own in my neighbourhood: "for," said he, "'tis better, my
lord, to show you what can be done with these people, than to talk of
what might be effected."

"Very true," said I, agreeing readily; because I wanted to finish a
conversation that wearied me, and to have a refreshing ride. It was a
delightful evening; and when we came on M'Leod's estate, I really could
not help being pleased and interested. In an unfavourable situation,
with all nature, vegetable and animal, against him, he had actually
created a paradise amid the wilds. There was nothing wonderful in any
thing I saw around me; but there was such an air of neatness and
comfort, order and activity, in the people and in their cottages, that I
almost thought myself in England; and I could not forbear
exclaiming,--"How could all this be brought about in Ireland!"

"Chiefly by not doing and not expecting too much at first," said M'Leod.
"We took time, and had patience. We began by setting them the example of
some very slight improvements, and then, lured on by the sight of
success, they could make similar trials themselves. My wife and I went
among them, and talked to them in their cottages, and took an interest
in their concerns, and did not want to have every thing our own way; and
when they saw that, they began to consider which way was best; so by
degrees we led where we could not have driven; and raised in them, by
little and little, a taste for conveniences and comforts. Then the
business was done; for the moment the taste and ambition were excited;
to work the people went to gratify them; and according as they exerted
themselves, we helped them. Perhaps it was best for them and for us,
that we were not rich; for we could not do too much at a time, and were
never tempted to begin grand schemes that we could not finish. There,"
said McLeod, pointing to a cottage with a pretty porch covered with
woodbine, and a neat garden, in which many children were busily at work,
"that house and that garden were the means of doing all the rest; that
is our school-house. We could not expect to do much with the old, whose
habits were fixed; but we tried to give the young children better
notions, and it was a long time before we could bring that to bear.
Twenty-six years we have been at this work; and in that time if we have
done any thing, it was by beginning with the children: a race of our own
training has now grown up, and they go on in the way they were taught,
and prosper to our hearts' content, and, what is better still, to their
hearts' content."

McLeod, habitually grave and taciturn, seemed quite enlivened and
talkative this day; but I verily believe that not the slightest
ostentation or vanity inspired him, for I never before or since heard
him talk or allude to his own good deeds: I am convinced his motive was
to excite me to persevere in my benevolent projects, by showing what had
been done by small means. He was so truly in earnest that he never
perceived how tired I was; indeed he was so little in the habit of
expecting sympathy or applause, that he never missed even the ordinary
expressions of concurrent complaisance.

"Religion," continued he, "is the great difficulty in Ireland. We make
no difference between Protestants and Catholics; we always have admitted
both into our school. The priest comes on Saturday morning, and the
parish minister on Saturday evening, to hear the children belonging to
each church their catechisms, and to instruct them in the tenets of
their faith. And as we keep to our word, and never attempt making
proselytes, nor directly or indirectly interfere with their religious
opinions, the priests are glad to let us instruct the catholic children
in all other points, which they plainly see must advance their temporal
interests."

Mr. McLeod invited me to go in and look at the school. "In a hedge or
ditch school," said he, "which I once passed on this road, and in which
I saw a crowd of idle children, I heard the schoolmaster cry out,
'Rehearse! rehearse! there's company going by; and instantly all the
boys snatched up their books, and began gabbling as fast as ever they
could, to give an idea to the passenger of their diligence in repeating
their lessons. But here, my lord," continued M'Leod, "you will not see
any exhibitions _got up_ for company. I hate such tricks. Walk in, my
lord, if you please."

I walked in; but am ashamed to say, that I observed only that every
thing looked as if it had been used for many years, and yet not worn
out; and the whole school appeared as if all were in their places, and
occupied and intent upon their business: but this general recollection
is all I have retained. The enthusiasm for improvement had subsided in
my mind; and though I felt a transient pleasure in the present picture
of the happiness of these poor people and their healthy children, yet,
as I rode home, the images faded away like a dream. I resolved, indeed,
at some future period, to surpass all that Mr. M'Leod had done, or all
that with his narrow income he could ever accomplish; and to this
resolution I was prompted by jealousy of this man, rather than by
benevolence. Before I had arranged, even in imagination, my plans, young
Ormsby came one morning, and pressed me to return with him to Ormsby
Villa. I yielded to his solicitations and to my own wishes. When I
arrived, the ladies were all at their toilettes, except Miss Bland, who
was in the book-room with the gentlemen, ready to receive me with her
perpetual smile. Wherever Miss Bland went, she was always _l'amie de la
maison_, accustomed to share with the lady of the house the labour of
entertaining her guests. This _double_ of Lady Ormsby talked to me most
courteously of all the nothings of the day, and informed me of the
changes which had taken place in the ever-varying succession of company
at Ormsby Villa. The two brigadiers and one of the aides-de-camp were
gone; but Captain Andrews, another castle aide-de-camp, was come, and my
Lord O'Toole had arrived. Then followed a by-conversation between Miss
Bland and some of the gentlemen, about the joy and sorrow which his
lordship's arrival would create in the hearts of two _certain ladies_;
one of whom, as I gathered from the innuendoes, was Lady Hauton, and the
other Lady O'Toole. As I knew nothing of Dublin intrigues and scandal, I
was little attentive to all this. Miss Bland, persisting in entertaining
me, proceeded to inform me, that my Lord O'Toole had brought down with
him Mr. Cecil Devereux, who was a wit and a poet, very handsome and
gallant, and one of the most fashionable young men in Dublin. I
determined not to like him--I always hated a flourish of trumpets;
whoever enters, announced in this parading manner, appears to
disadvantage. Mr. Cecil Devereux entered just as the flourish ceased. He
was not at all the sort of person I was prepared to see: though
handsome, and with the air of a man used to good company, there was
nothing of a coxcomb in his manner; on the contrary, there was such an
appearance of carelessness about himself, and deference towards others,
that, notwithstanding the injudicious praise that had been bestowed on
him, and my consequent resolution to dislike him, I was pleased and
familiar with him before I had been ten minutes in his company. Lord
Kilrush introduced him to me, with great pomposity, as a gentleman of
talents, for whom he and his brother O'Toole interested themselves much.
This air of patronage, I saw, disgusted Mr. Devereux; and instead of
suffering himself to be _shown off_, he turned the conversation from his
own poems to general subjects. He asked me some questions about a
curious cavern, or subterraneous way, near Glenthorn Castle, which
stretched from the sea-shore to a considerable distance under the rock,
and communicated with an old abbey near the castle. Mr. Devereux said
that such subterraneous places had been formerly used in Ireland as
granaries by the ancient inhabitants; but a gentleman of the
neighbourhood who was present observed, that the caverns on this coast
had, within his memory, been used as hiding-places by smugglers: on this
hint Lord Kilrush began a prosing dissertation upon smugglers and
contraband traders, and talked to me a prodigious deal about exports and
imports, and bounties, and the balance of trade. Not one word he said
did I comprehend, and I question whether his lordship understood the
subjects upon which he spoke so dictatorially; but he thought he
succeeded in giving me an opinion of his wisdom and information. His
brother O'Toole appeared next: he did not look like a man of gallantry,
as I had been taught to expect from the hints thrown out respecting Lady
Hauton; his lordship's whole soul seemed devoted to ambition, and he
talked so much of great men, and state affairs, and court intrigues, and
honours and preferments, that I began to fancy I had been buried alive,
because I knew little of these things. I was tired of hearing him, yet
mortified that I could not speak exactly in the same manner, and with
the same air of being the best possible authority. I began to wish that
I also had some interest at court. The cares and troubles of the
ambitious man, so utterly repugnant to the indolence of my disposition,
vanished in this moment of infatuation from my view, and I thought only
of the pleasures of power. Such is the infectious nature of ambition!

Mr. Devereux helped me to throw off this dangerous contagion, before it
did me any injury. He happened to stay in the room with me a quarter of
an hour after the other gentlemen went to dress. Though not often
disposed to conversation with a stranger, yet I was won by this
gentleman's easy address: he politely talked of the English fashionable
world, with which he knew that I was well acquainted; I, with equal
politeness, recurred to the Irish great world: we fastened together upon
Lord O'Toole, who took us to Dublin Castle; and I began to express my
regret that I had not yet been at the Irish court, and that I had not
earlier in life made myself of political consequence.

"Ambition," said I, "might help to keep a man awake and alive; all
common pleasures have long since ceased to interest me--they really
cannot make me stir."

"My lord," said Mr. Devereux, "you would do better to sit or lie still
all your life than to toil for such vain objects.

    'Full little knowest thou that hast not tried,
    What hell it is in sueing long to bide;'

Your lordship may remember Spenser's description of that hell?"

"Not exactly," said I, unwilling to lower the good opinion this
gentleman seemed to have taken for granted of my literature. He took
Spenser's poems out of the book-case, and I actually rose from my seat
to read the passage; for what trouble will not even the laziest of
mortals take to preserve the esteem of one by whom he sees that he is
over-valued. I read the following ten lines without yawning!

    "Full little knowest thou that hast not tried,
    What hell it is in sueing long to bide;
    To lose good days, that might be better spent,
    To waste long nights in pensive discontent,
    To speed to-day, to be put back to-morrow,
    To feed on hope, to pine with fear and sorrow,
    To fret thy soul with crosses and with cares,
    To eat thy heart through comfortless despairs,
    To fawn, to crouch, to wait, to ride, to run,
    To spend, to give, to want, to be undone."

"Very strong, indeed," said I, with a competent air, as if used to judge
of poetry.

"And it comes with still greater force, when we consider by whom it was
written. A man, you know, my lord, who had been secretary to a lord
lieutenant."

I felt my nascent ambition die away within me. I acknowledged it was
better to spend an easy life. My determination was confirmed at this
instant by the appearance of Lady Geraldine. Ambition and love, it is
said, are incompatible passions. Neither of them had yet possession of
my heart; but love and Lady Geraldine had perhaps a better chance than
ambition and Lord O'Toole. Lady Geraldine appeared in high spirits; and,
though I was not a vain man, I could not help fancying that my return to
Ormsby Villa contributed to her charming vivacity. This gratified me
secretly and soberly, as much as it visibly delighted her mother. Miss
Bland, to pay her court to Lady Kildangan, observed that Lady Geraldine
was in uncommonly fine spirits this evening. Lady Geraldine threw back a
haughty frown over her left shoulder: this was the only time I ever saw
her notice, in any manner, any thing that fell from her obsequious
friend. To avert the fair one's displeasure, I asked for Miss Tracey and
Mr. Gabbitt.

"Mr. Gabbitt," said her ladyship, resuming her good-humour instantly;
"Mr. Gabbitt is gone off the happiest man in Ireland, with the hopes of
surveying my Lord O'Toole's estate; a good job, which I was bound in
honour to obtain for him, as a reward for taking a good joke. After
mocking him with the bare imagination of a feast, you know the Barmecide
in the Arabian Tales gave poor Shakabac a substantial dinner, a full
equivalent for the jest."

"And Miss Tracey." said I, "what did your ladyship do for her?"

"I persuaded her mamma that the sweet creature was falling into an
atrophy. So she carried the forlorn damsel post haste to the Black Rock
for the recovery of her health, or her heart. Clementina, my dear, no
reproachful looks; in your secret soul do not you know, that I could not
do a young lady a greater favour than to give her a plausible excuse for
getting away from home?"

I was afraid that Lady Geraldine would feel the want of her butt;
however, I found that Miss Tracey's place was supplied by Captain
Andrews, one of the Castle's aides-de-camp; and when Captain Andrews was
out of the way, Lord Kilrush and his brother O'Toole were _good marks_.
High and mighty as these personages thought themselves, and
respectfully, nay obsequiously, as they were treated by most others, to
this lady their characters appeared only a good _study_; and to laugh at
them seemed only a _good practice_.

"Perhaps, my lord," said she to me, "you do not yet know my Lord
O'Toole?"

"I have had the honour to be introduced to him."

"That's well; for he thinks that,

    'Not to know him, argues yourself unknown.'

But as your lordship is a stranger in this country, you may be pardoned;
and I will make you better acquainted with him. I suppose you know there
are many Tooles in Ireland; some very ancient, respectable, and useful:
this, however, is but a mere political tool, and the worst of all tools,
a cat's paw. There's one thing to the credit of these brothers, they
agree vastly well; for one delights in being always on the stage, and
the other always behind the scenes. These brothers, with Captain
Andrews--I hope they are none of them within hearing--form a charming
trio, all admirable in their way. My Lord O'Toole is--artifice without
art. My Lord Kilrush--importance without power. And Captain
Andrews--pliability without ease. Poor Andrews! he's a defenceless
animal--safe in impenetrable armour. Give him but time--as a man said,
who once showed me a land-tortoise--give him but time to draw his head
into his shell, and a broad-wheeled waggon may go over him without
hurting him. Lord Glenthorn, did you ever observe Captain Andrews's mode
of conversation?"

"No; I never heard him converse."

"Converse! nor I indeed; but you have heard him talk." "I have heard him
say--_Very true_--and _Of course_."

"Lord Glenthorn is quite severe this evening," said Mrs. O'Connor.

"But though your lordship," continued Lady Geraldine, "may have observed
Captain Andrews's wonderful economy of words, do you know whence it
arises? Perhaps you think from his perception of his own want of
understanding."

"Not from his perception of the want," said I.

"Again! again!" said Mrs. O'Connor, with an insulting tone of surprise;
"Lord Glenthorn's quite witty this evening."

Lady Geraldine looked as if she were fully sensible of the want of
politeness in Mrs. O'Connor's mode of praising. "But, my lord," pursued
she, "you wrong Captain Andrews, if you attribute his monosyllabic
replies either to stupidity or timidity. You have not guessed the reason
why he never gives on any subject more than half an opinion."

"It was in the diplomatic school he was taught that art," said
Mr. Devereux.

"You must know," pursued Lady Geraldine, "that Captain Andrews is only
an aide-de-camp till a diplomatic situation can be found for him; and to
do him justice, he has been so well trained in the diplomatic school,
that he will not hazard an assertion on any subject; he is not certain
of any thing, not even of his own identity."

"He assuredly wants," said Devereux, "the only proof of existence which
Descartes would admit--_I think_, therefore I am."

"He has such a holy horror of committing himself," continued Lady
Geraldine, "that if you were to ask him if the sun rose this morning, he
would answer, with his sweet smile--_So I am told_--or--_So I am
informed_."

"Begging your ladyship's pardon," cried Mr. Devereux, "that is much too
affirmative. In the pure diplomatic style, impersonal verbs must ever be
used in preference to active or passive. So I am told, lays him open to
the dangerous questions, Who told you? or, By whom were you informed?
Then he is forced into the imprudence of giving up his authorities;
whereas he is safe in the impersonality of _So it is said_, or _So it is
reported_."

"How I should like to see a meeting between two perfectly finished
diplomatists!" cried Lady Geraldine.

"That is demonstrably impossible," said Mr. Devereux; "for in certain
political, as well as in certain geometrical lines, there is a continual
effort to approach, without a possibility of meeting."

Lady Geraldine's raillery, like all other things, would, perhaps, soon
have become tiresome to me; but that there was infinite variety in her
humour. At first I had thought her merely superficial, and intent solely
upon her own amusement; but I soon found that she had a taste for
literature, beyond what could have been expected in one who lived so
dissipated a life; a depth of reflection that seemed inconsistent with
the rapidity with which she thought; and, above all, a degree of
generous indignation against meanness and vice, which seemed
incompatible with the selfish character of a fine lady, and which
appeared quite incomprehensible to the imitating tribe of her
fashionable companions.

I mentioned a Mrs. Norton and Lady Hauton amongst the company of Ormsby
Villa. These two English ladies, whom I had never met in any of the
higher circles in London, who were persons of no consequence, and of no
marked character in their own country, made, it seems, a prodigious
_sensation_ when they came over to Ireland, and turned the heads of half
Dublin by the extravagance of their dress, the impertinence of their
airs, and the audacity of their conduct. Fame flew before them to the
remote parts of the country; and when they arrived at Ormsby Villa, all
the country gentlemen and ladies were prepared to admire these
celebrated fashionable belles. All worshipped them present, and abused
them absent, except Lady Geraldine, who neither joined in the admiration
nor inquired into the scandal. One morning Mrs. Norton and Lady Hauton
had each collected her votaries round her: one group begging patterns of
dress from Lady Hauton, who stood up in the midst of them, to have
everything she wore examined and envied; the other group sat on a sofa
apart, listening to Mrs. Norton, who, _sotto voce_, was telling
interesting anecdotes of an English crim. con., which then occupied the
attention of the fashionable world. Mrs. Norton had letters _from the
best authorities_ in London, which she was entreated by her auditors to
read to them. Mrs. Norton went to look for the letters, Lady Hauton to
direct her woman to furnish some patterns of I know not what articles of
dress; and, in the mean time, all the company joined in canvassing the
merits and demerits of the dress and characters of the two ladies who
had just left the room. Lady Geraldine, who had kept aloof, and who was
examining some prints at the farther end of the room, at this instant
laid down her book, and looked upon the whole party with an air of
magnanimous disdain; then smiling, as in scorn, she advanced towards
them, and, in a tone of irony, addressing one of the Swanlinbar graces,
"My dear Theresa," said her ladyship, "you are absolutely ashamed, I
see, of not being quite naked; and you, my good Bess, will, no doubt,
very soon be equally scandalized, at the imputation of being a perfectly
modest woman. Go on, my friends; go on, and prosper; beg and borrow all
the patterns and precedents you can collect of the newest fashions of
folly and vice. Make haste, make haste; they don't reach our remote
island fast enough. We Irish might live in innocence half a century
longer, if you didn't expedite the progress of profligacy; we might
escape the plague that rages in neighbouring countries, if we didn't,
without any quarantine, and with open arms, welcome every _suspected_
stranger; if we didn't encourage the importation of whole bales of
tainted fineries, that will spread the contagion from Dublin to Cork,
and from Cork to Galway!"

"La!" said Miss Ormsby, "how severe your ladyship is; and all only for
one's asking for a pattern!"

"But you know," pursued Mrs. O'Connor, "that Lady Geraldine is too proud
to take pattern from any body."

"Too proud am I? Well, then, I'll be humble; I'll abase myself--shall I?

    '_Proud_ as I am, I'll put myself to school;'

and I'll do what the ladies Hauton and Norton shall advise, to heighten
my charms and preserve my reputation. I must begin, must not I, Mrs.
O'Connor, by learning not to blush? for I observed you were ashamed for
me yesterday at dinner, when I blushed at something said by one of our
fair missionaries. Then, to whatever lengths flirtations and gallantry
may go between unmarried or married people, I must look on. I may shut
my eyes, if I please, and look down; but not from shame--from
affectation I may as often as I please, or to show my eyelashes.
Memorandum--to practise this before Clementina Ormsby, my mirror of
fashion. So far, so good, for my looks; but now for my language. I must
reform my barbarous language, and learn from Mrs. Norton, with her
pretty accommodating voice, to call an intrigue _an arrangement_, and a
crim. con. _an affair in Doctors' Commons_, or _that business before
the Lords_.

    'We never mention Hell to ears polite.'

How virtuous we shall be when we have no name for vice! But stay, I must
mind my lessons--I have more, much more to learn. From the dashing Lady
Hauton I may learn, if my head be but strong, and my courage intrepid
enough, 'to touch the brink of all we hate,' without tumbling headlong
into the gulf; and from the interesting Mrs. Norton, as I hear it
whispered amongst you ladies, I may learn how, with the assistance of a
Humane-society, to save a half-drowned reputation. It is, I understand,
the glory of one class of fashionable females, to seem worse than they
are; and of another class the privilege, to be worse than they seem."

Here clamorous voices interrupted Lady Geraldine--some justifying, some
attacking, Lady Hauton and Mrs. Norton.

"Oh! Lady Geraldine, I assure you, notwithstanding all that was
said about General ---- and Mrs. Norton, I am convinced there was
nothing in it."

"And, my dear Lady Geraldine, though Lady Hauton does go great lengths
in coquetting with a certain lord, you must see that there's _nothing
wrong_; and that she means nothing, but to provoke his lady's jealousy.
You know his lordship is not a man to fall in love with."

"So, because Lady Hauton's passion is hatred instead of love, and
because her sole object is to give pain to a poor wife, and to make
mischief in families, all her sins are to be forgiven! Now, if I were
forced to forgive any ill-conducted female, I would rather excuse the
woman who is hurried on by love than she who is instigated by hatred."

Miss Bland now began to support her ladyship's opinion, that "Lady
Hauton was much the worst of the two;" and all the scandal that was in
circulation was produced by the partisans of each of these ladies.

"No matter, no matter, which is the worst," cried Lady Geraldine; "don't
let us waste our time in repeating or verifying scandalous stories of
either of them. I have no enmity to these ladies; I only despise them,
or rather, their follies and their faults. It is not the sinner, but the
sin we should reprobate. Oh! my dear countrywomen," cried Lady
Geraldine, with increasing animation of countenance and manner--"Oh! my
dear countrywomen, let us never stoop to admire and imitate these
second-hand airs and graces, follies and vices. Let us dare to be
ourselves!"

My eyes were fixed upon her animated countenance, and, I believe, I
continued gazing even after her voice ceased. Mrs. O'Connor pointed this
out, and I was immediately embarrassed. Miss Bland accounted for my
embarrassment by supposing, that what Lady Geraldine had said of English
crim. cons, had affected me. From a look and a whisper among the ladies,
I guessed this; but Lady Geraldine was too well-bred to suppose I could
suspect her of ill-breeding and ill-nature, or that I could apply to
myself what evidently was not intended to allude to my family
misfortunes. By an openness of manner and sweetness of expression, which
I cannot forget, she, in one single look, conveyed all this to me: and
then resuming her conversation, "Pray, my lord," said she, "you who have
lived so much in the great world in England, say, for you can, whether I
am right or wrong in my suspicion, that these ladies, who have made such
a noise in Ireland, have been little heard of in England?"

I confirmed her ladyship's opinion by my evidence. The faces of the
company changed. Thus, in a few seconds, the empire of Lady Hauton and
of Mrs. Norton seemed shaken to the foundation, and never recovered from
this shock.

The warmth of Lady Geraldine's expressions, on this and many other
occasions, wakened dormant feelings in my heart, and made me sensible
that I had a soul, and that I was superior to the puppets with whom I
had been classed.

One day Lady Kilrush, in her mixed mode, with partly the graces of a
fine lady and partly the airs of a _bel esprit_, was talking of Mr.
Devereux, whom she affected to patronise and _produce_.

"Here, Devereux!" cried she; "Cecil Devereux! What can you be thinking
of? I am talking to you. Here's this epitaph of Francis the First upon
Petrarch's Laura, that you showed me the other day: do you know, I dote
upon it. I must have it translated: nobody can do it so well as you. I
have not time; but I shall not sleep to-night if it is not done: and you
are so quick: so sit down here, there's a dear man, and do it in your
elegant way for me, whilst I go to my toilette. Perhaps you did not know
that my name was Laura," said she, leaving the room with a very
sentimental air.

"What will become of me!" cried Devereux. "Never was a harder task set
by cruel patroness. I would rather 'turn a Persian tale for
half-a-crown.' Read this, my lord, and tell me whether it will be easy
to turn my Lady Kilrush into Petrarch's Laura."

"This sonnet, to be sure, is rather difficult to translate, or at least
to modernize, as bespoke," said Lady Geraldine, after she had perused
the sonnet;[82] "but I think, Mr. Devereux, you brought this difficulty
upon yourself. How came you to show these lines to such an amateur, such
a fetcher and carrier of bays as Lady Kilrush? You might have been
certain that, had they been trash, with the name of Francis the First,
and with your fashionable approbation, and something to say about
Petrarch and Laura, my Lady Kilrush would talk for ever, _et se pâmerait
d'affectation_."

"Mr. Devereux," said I, "has only to abide by the last lines, as a good
and sufficient apology to Lady Kilrush for his silence:

    'Qui te pourra louer qu'en se taisant?
    Car la parole est toujours réprimée
    Quand le sujet surmonte le disant.'"

"There is no way to get out of my difficulties," said Mr. Devereux, with
a very melancholy look; and with a deep sigh he sat down to attempt the
translation of the poem. In a few minutes, however, he rose and left the
room, declaring that he had the bad habit of not being able to do any
thing in company.

Lady Geraldine now, with much energy of indignation, exclaimed against
the pretensions of rich amateurs, and the mean and presumptuous manner
in which some would-be great people affect to patronise genius.

"Oh! the baseness, the emptiness of such patronising ostentation!" cried
she. "I am accused of being proud myself; but I hope--I believe--I am
sure, that my pride is of another sort. Persons of any elevation or
generosity of mind never have this species of pride; but it is your
mean, second-rate folk, who imagine that people of talent are a sort of
raree-show for their entertainment. At best, they consider men of genius
only as artists formed for their use, who, if not in a situation to be
paid with money, are yet to be easily recompensed by praise--by their
praise--_their_ praise! Heavens! what conceit! And these amateur-patrons
really think themselves judges, and presume to advise and direct genius,
and employ it to their petty purposes! Like that Pietro de Medici, who,
at some of his entertainments, set Michael Angelo to make a statue of
snow. My lord, did you ever happen to meet with Les Mémoires de Madame
de Staël?"

"No: I did not know that they were published."

"You mistake me: I mean Madame de Staël of Louis the Fourteenth and the
Regent's time, Mademoiselle de Launay."

I had never heard of such a person, and I blushed for my ignorance.

"Nay, I met with them myself only yesterday," said Lady Geraldine: "I
was struck with the character of the Duchess de la Ferté, in which this
kind of proud patronising ignorance is admirably painted from the life.
It is really worth your while, my lord, to look at it. There's the book
on that little table; here is the passage. You see, this Duchess de la
Ferté is showing off to a sister-duchess a poor girl of genius, like a
puppet or an ape.

"'Allons, mademoiselle, parlez--Madame, vous allez voir comme elle
parle--Elle vit que j'hésitois à répondre, et pensa qu'il falloit
m'aider comme une chanteuse à qui l'on indique ce qu'on désire
d'entendre--Parlez un peu de religion, mademoiselle, vous direz ensuite
autre chose.'

"This speech, Mr. Devereux tells me, has become quite proverbial in
Paris," continued Lady Geraldine; "and it is often quoted, when any one
presumes in the Duchess de la Ferte's style."

"Ignorance, either in high or low life, is equally self-sufficient, I
believe," said I, exerting myself to illustrate her ladyship's remarks.
"A gentleman of my acquaintance lately went to buy some razors at
Packwood's. Mrs. Packwood alone was _visible_. Upon the gentleman's
complimenting her on the infinite variety of her husband's ingenious and
poetical advertisements, she replied, 'La! sir, and do you think husband
has time to write them there things his-self? Why, sir, we keeps a poet
to do all that there work.'"

Though Lady Geraldine spoke only in general of amateur-patrons and of
men of genius, yet I could not help fancying, from the warmth with which
she expressed herself, and from her dwelling on the subject so long,
that her feelings were peculiarly interested for some individual of this
description. Thus I discovered that Lady Geraldine had a heart; and I
suspected that her ladyship and Mr. Devereux had also made the same
discovery. This suspicion was strengthened by a slight incident, which
occurred the following evening.

Lady Geraldine and Cecil Devereux, as we were drinking coffee, were in a
recessed window, while some of the company stood round them, amused by
their animated conversation. They went on, repartee after repartee, as
if inspired by each other's spirits.

"You two," said a little girl of six years old, who was playing in the
window, "go on singing to one another like two nightingales; and this
shall be your cage," added she, drawing the drapery of the
window-curtains across the recessed window. "You shall live always
together in this cage: will you, pretty birds?"

"No, no; some birds cannot live in a cage, my dear," cried Lady
Geraldine, playfully struggling to get free, whilst the child held
her prisoner.

"Mr. Devereux seems tolerably quiet and contented in his cage," said the
shrewd Mrs. O'Connor.

"I can't get out! I can't get out!" cried Devereux, in the melancholy
tone of the starling in the Sentimental Journey.

"What is all this?" said my Lady Kildangan, sailing up to us.

"Only two birds," the child began.

"Singing-birds," interrupted Lady Geraldine, catching the little girl up
in her arms, and stopping her from saying more, by beginning to sing
most charmingly.

Lady Kildangan returned to the sofa without comprehending one word of
what had passed. For my part, I now felt almost certain of the justice
of my suspicions: I was a little vexed, but not by any means in that
despair into which a man heartily in love would have been thrown by such
a discovery.

Well, thought I, it is well it is no worse: it was very lucky that I did
not fall quite in love with this fair lady, since it seems that she has
given her heart away. But am I certain of this? I was mistaken once. Let
me examine more carefully.

Now I had a new motive to keep my attention awake.




CHAPTER XI.


To preserve the continuity of my story, and not to fatigue the reader
with the journals of my comings and goings from Ormsby Villa to
Glenthorn Castle, and from Glenthorn Castle to Ormsby Villa, I must here
relate the observations I made, and the incidents that occurred, during
various visits at Sir Harry Ormsby's in the course of the summer.

After the incident of the birds and cage, my sagacity was for some time
at fault. I could not perceive any further signs of intelligence between
the parties: on the contrary, all communication seemed abruptly to
cease. As I was not well versed in such affairs, this quieted my
suspicions, and I began to think that I had been entirely mistaken.
Cecil Devereux spent his days shut up in his own apartment, immersed, as
far as I could understand, in the study of the Persian language. He
talked to me of nothing but his hopes of an appointment which Lord
O'Toole had promised to procure for him in India. When he was not
studying, he was botanizing or _mineralogizing_ with O'Toole's chaplain.
I did not envy him his new mode of life. Lady Geraldine took no notice
of it. When they did meet, which happened as seldom as possible, there
was an air of haughty displeasure on her part; on his, steady and
apparently calm respect and self-satisfaction. Her spirits were
exuberant, but variable; and, at times, evidently forced: his were not
high, but even and certain. Towards me, her ladyship's manners were free
from coquetry, yet politely gratifying, as she marked, by the sort of
conversation she addressed to me, her opinion that I was superior in
ability and capability to what she had at first thought me, and to what
I had always thought myself.

Mr. Devereux, though with more effort, treated me with distinction, and
showed a constant desire to cultivate my friendship. On every occasion
he endeavoured to raise my opinion of myself: to give me ambition and
courage to cultivate my mind. Once, when I was arguing in favour of
natural genius, and saying that I thought no cultivation could make the
abilities of one man equal to those of another, he, without seeming to
perceive that I was apologizing at once for my own indolence and my
intellectual inferiority, answered in general terms, "It is difficult to
judge what are the natural powers of the mind, they appear so different
in different circumstances. You can no more judge of a mind in ignorance
than of a plant in darkness. A philosophical friend told me, that he
once thought he had discovered a new and strange plant growing in a
mine. It was common sage; but so degenerated and altered, that he could
not know it: he planted it in the open air and in the light, and
gradually it resumed its natural appearance and character."

Mr. Devereux excited, without fatiguing, my mind by his conversation;
and I was not yet sufficiently in love to be seriously jealous. I was
resolved, however, to sound him upon the subject of Lady Geraldine, I
waited for a good opportunity: at length, as we were looking together
over the prints of Bürger's Lenore, he led to the sort of conversation
that I desired, by telling me an anecdote relative to the poet, which he
had lately heard from a German baron.

Burger was charmed with a sonnet, which an unknown fair one addressed to
him, in praise of his poetry; he replied in equal strains; and they went
on flattering one another, till both believed themselves in love:
without ever having met, they determined to marry: they at length met,
and married: they quarrelled and parted: in other words, the gentleman
was terribly disappointed in his unknown mistress; and she consoled
herself by running away from him with another lover.

The imprudence of this poetic couple led us to reflections on love and
marriage in general. Keeping far away from all allusion to Lady
Geraldine, I rallied Mr. Devereux about the fair Clementina, who was
evidently a romantic admirer of his.

"Who, except Cupid, would barter his liberty for a butterfly?" said he;
"and Cupid was a child. Men now-a-days are grown too wise to enslave
themselves for women. Love occupies a vast space in a woman's thoughts,
but fills a small portion in a man's life. Women are told, that 'The
great, th' important business of their life, is love;' but men know that
they are born for something better than to sing mournful ditties to a
mistress's eyebrow. As to marriage, what a serious, terrible thing! Some
quaint old author says, that man is of too smooth and oily a nature to
climb up to heaven, if, to make him less slippery, there be not added to
his composition the vinegar of marriage. This may be; but I will keep as
long as possible from the vinegar."

"Really, Devereux," said I, smiling, "you talk so like a cynic and an
old bachelor, and you look so little like either, that it is quite
ridiculous."

"A man must be ridiculous sometimes," said he, "and bear to be thought
so. No man ever distinguished himself, who could not bear to be
laughed at."

Mr. Devereux left the room singing,

    "No more for Amynta fresh garlands I wove;
    Ambition, I said, will soon cure me of love."

I was uncertain what to think of all this. I inclined to believe that
ambition was his ruling passion, notwithstanding the description of that
Hell which he showed me in Spenser. His conduct to his patron-lords, by
which a surer judgment of his character could be formed than by his
professions, was not, however, that of a man merely intent upon rising
in the world.

I remember once hearing Lord O'Toole attack a friend of this
gentleman's, calling him, in a certain tone, _a philosopher._ Mr.
Devereux replied, "that he could not consider that as a term of
reproach; that where a false or pretended philosopher was meant, some
other name should be used, equivalent to the Italian term of reproach,
_filosofastro._"

Lord O'Toole would by no means admit of this Italianism: he would make
no distinctions: he deemed philosophers altogether a race of beings
dangerous and inimical to states.

"For states read statesmen," said Devereux, who persisted in the
vindication of his friend till Lord O'Toole grew pale with anger, while
Captain Andrews smiled with ineffable contempt at the political _bévue_:
Lady Geraldine glowed with generous indignation.

Afterwards, in speaking to me of Lord O'Toole, Devereux said, "His
lordship's classification of men is as contracted as the savage's
classification of animals: he divides mankind into two classes, knaves
and fools; and when he meets with an honest man, he does not know what
to make of him."

My esteem for Mr. Devereux was much increased by my daily observations
upon his conduct: towards Lady Geraldine, I thought it particularly
honourable: when her displeasure evidently merged in esteem, when her
manners again became most winning and attractive, his continued
uniformly the same; never passing the bounds of friendly respect, or
swerving, in the slightest degree, from the line of conduct which he had
laid down for himself. I thought I now understood him perfectly. That he
liked Lady Geraldine I could scarcely doubt; but I saw that he refrained
from aiming at the prize which he knew he ought not to obtain; that he
perceived her ladyship's favourable disposition towards him, yet denied
himself not only the gratification of his vanity, but the exquisite
pleasure of conversing with her, lest he should stand in the way of her
happier prospects. He frequently spoke to me of her ladyship in terms of
the warmest approbation. He said, that all the world saw and admired her
talents and beauty, but that he had had opportunities, as a relation, of
studying her domestic life. "With all her vivacity, she has a heart
formed for tenderness," said he; "a high sense of duty, the best
security for a woman's conduct; and in generosity and magnanimity, I
never found her superior in either sex. In short, I never saw any woman
whose temper and disposition were more likely to make a man of sense and
feeling supremely happy."

I could not forbear smiling, and asking Cecil Devereux how all this
accorded with his late professions of hatred to marriage. "My
professions were sincere," said he. "It would be misery to me to marry
any inferior woman, and I am not in circumstances to marry as I could
wish. I could not think of Lady Geraldine without a breach of trust, of
which your lordship, I hope, cannot suspect me. Her mother places
confidence in me. I am not only a relation, but treated as a friend of
the family. I am not in love with Lady Geraldine. I admire, esteem,
respect her ladyship; and I wish to see her united to a man, if such a
man there be, who may deserve her. We understand one another now. Your
lordship will have the goodness never more to speak to me on this
subject." He spoke with much emotion, but with steadiness, and left me
penetrated with feelings that were entirely new to me.

Much as I admired his conduct, I was yet undecided as to my own: my
aversion to a second marriage was not yet conquered:--I was amused, I
was captivated by Lady Geraldine; but I could not bring myself to think
of making a distinct proposal. Captain Andrews himself was not more
afraid of being committed than I was upon this tender subject. To gain
time, I now thought it necessary to verify all the praises Mr. Devereux
had bestowed on her ladyship. Magnanimity was a word that particularly
struck my ear as extraordinary when applied to a female. However, by
attending carefully to this lady, I thought I discovered what Mr.
Devereux meant. Lady Geraldine was superior to manoeuvring little arts
and petty stratagems to attract attention: she would not stoop, even to
conquer. From gentlemen she seemed to expect attention as her right, as
the right of her sex; not to beg or accept of it as a favour: if it were
not paid, she deemed the gentleman degraded, not herself. Far from being
mortified by any preference shown to other ladies, her countenance
betrayed only a sarcastic sort of pity for the bad taste of the men, or
an absolute indifference and look of haughty absence. I saw that she
beheld with disdain the paltry competitions of the young ladies her
companions: as her companions, indeed, she hardly seemed to consider
them; she tolerated their foibles, forgave their envy, and never exerted
any superiority, except to show her contempt of vice and meanness. To be
in any degree excepted from the common herd; to be in any degree
distinguished by a lady so proud, and with so many good reasons to be
proud, was flattering to my self-love. She gave me no direct
encouragement; but I never advanced far enough to require encouragement,
much less to justify repulse. Sometimes I observed, or I fancied, that
she treated me with more favour when Mr. Devereux was present than at
other times; perhaps--for she was a woman, not an angel--to pique
Devereux, and try if she could move him from the settled purpose of his
soul. He bore it all with surprising constancy: his spirits, however,
and his health, began visibly to decline.

"If I do not intrude too much on your valuable time, Mr. Devereux,"
said her ladyship to him one evening, in her most attractive manner,
"may I beg you to read to us some of these beautiful poems of Sir
William Jones?"

There was a seat beside her ladyship on the sofa: the book was held out
by the finest arm in the world.

"Nay," said Lady Geraldine, "do not look so respectfully miserable; if
you have any other engagements, you have only to say so: or if you
cannot speak you may bow: a bow, you know, is an answer to every thing.
And here is my Lord Glenthorn ready to supply your place: pray, do not
let me detain you prisoner. You shall not a second time say, _I can't
get out_."

Devereux made no further effort to escape, but took the book and his
dangerous seat. He remained with us, contrary to his custom, the whole
evening. Afterwards, as if he felt that some apology was necessary to me
for the pleasure in which he had indulged himself, "Perhaps, my lord,"
said he, "another man in my situation, and with my feelings, would think
it necessary to retreat, and prudent to secure his safety by flight; but
flight is unworthy of him who can combat and conquer: the man who is
sure of himself does not skulk away to avoid danger, but advances to
meet it, armed secure in honesty."

This proud and rash security in his own courage, strength of mind, and
integrity, was the only fault of Cecil Devereux. He never prayed not to
be led into temptation, he thought himself so sure of avoiding evil.
Unconscious of his danger, even though his disease was at its height, he
now braved it most imprudently: he was certain that he should never pass
the bounds of friendship; he had proved this to himself, and was
satisfied: he told me that he could with indifference, nay, with
pleasure, see Lady Geraldine mine. In the mean time, upon the same
principle that he deemed flight inglorious, he was proud to expose
himself to the full force of Love's artillery. He was with us now every
day, and almost all day, and Lady Geraldine was more charming than ever.
The week was fixed for her departure. Still I could not decide. I
understood that her ladyship would pass the ensuing winter in Dublin,
where she would probably meet with new adorers; and even if Mr. Devereux
should not succeed, some adventurous knight might win and wear the
prize. This was an alarming thought. It almost decided me to hazard the
fatal declaration; but then I recollected that I might follow her
ladyship to town the next winter, and that if the impression did not, as
might be hoped, wear off during the intervening autumn, it would be time
enough to _commit_ myself when I should meet my fair one in Dublin. This
was at last my fixed resolution. Respited from the agonies of doubt, I
now waited very tranquilly for that moment to which most lovers look
forward with horror, the moment of separation. I was sensible that I had
accustomed myself to think about this lady so much, that I had gradually
identified my existence with hers, and I thus found my _spirit of
animation_ much increased. I dreaded the departure of Lady Geraldine
less than the return of ennui.

In this frame of mind I was walking one morning in the pleasure grounds
with Lady Geraldine, when a slight accident made me act in direct
contradiction to all my resolutions, and, I think, inconsistently with
my character. But such is the nature of man! and I was doomed to make a
fool of myself, even in the very temple of Minerva. Among the various
ornamental buildings in the grounds at Ormsby Villa, there was a temple
dedicated to this goddess, from which issued a troop of hoyden young
ladies, headed by the widow O'Connor and Lady Kilrush, all calling to us
to come and look at some charming discovery which they had just made in
the temple of Minerva. Thither we proceeded, accompanied by the merry
troop. We found in the temple only a poetical inscription of Lady
Kilrush's, pompously engraved on a fine marble tablet. We read the lines
with all the attention usually paid to a lady's poetry in the presence
of the poetess. Lady Geraldine and I turned to pay some compliments on
the performance, when we found that Lady Kilrush and all her companions
were gone.

"Gone! all gone!" said Lady Geraldine; "and there they are, making their
way very fast down to the temple of Folly! Lady Kilrush, you know, is so
ba-a-ashful, she could not possibly stay to receive _nos hommages_. I
love to laugh at affectation. Call them back, do, my lord, and you shall
see the _fair author_ go through all the evolutions of mock humility,
and end by yielding quietly to the notion that she is the tenth Muse.
But run, my lord, or they will be out of our reach."

I never was seen to run on any occasion; but to obey Lady Geraldine
I walked as fast as I could to the door, and, to my surprise, found
it fastened.

"Locked, I declare! Some of the witty tricks of the widow O'Connor, or
the hoyden Miss Callwells!"

"How I hate hoydens!" cried Lady Geraldine: "but let us take
patience; they will be back presently. If young ladies must perform
practical jokes, because quizzing is the fashion, I wish they would
devise something new. This locking-up is so stale a jest. To be sure
it has lately to boast the authority of high rank in successful
practice: but these bungling imitators never distinguish between
cases the most dissimilar imaginable. Silly creatures! We have only
to be wise and patient."

Her ladyship sat down to re-peruse the tablet. I never saw her look so
beautiful.--The dignified composure of her manner charmed me; it was so
unlike the paltry affectation of some of the fashionable ladies by whom
I had been disgusted. I recollected the precedent to which she alluded.
I recollected that the locking-up ended in matrimony; and as Lady
Geraldine made some remarks upon the verses, I suppose my answers showed
my absence of mind.

"Why so grave, my lord? why so absent? I assure you I do not suspect
your lordship of having any hand in this vulgar manoeuvre. I acquit you
honourably; therefore you need not stand any longer like a criminal."

What decided me at this instant I cannot positively tell: whether it was
the awkwardness of my own situation, or the grace of her ladyship's
manner: but all my prudential arrangements were forgotten, all my doubts
vanished. Before I knew that the words passed my lips, I replied, "That
her ladyship did me justice by such an acquittal; but that though I had
no part in the contrivance, yet I felt irresistibly impelled to avail
myself of the opportunity it afforded of declaring my real sentiments."
I was at her ladyship's feet, and making very serious love, before I
knew where I was. In what words my long-delayed declaration was made, I
cannot recollect, but I well remember Lady Geraldine's answer.

"My lord, I assure you that you do not know what you are saying: you
do not know what you are doing. This is all a mistake, as you will
find half an hour hence. I will not be so cruelly vain as to suppose
you serious."

"Not serious! no man ever was more serious."

"No, no--No, no, no."

I swore, of course, most fervently.

"Oh! rise, rise, I beseech you, my lord, and don't look so like a hero;
though you have done an heroical action, I grant. How you ever brought
yourself to it, I cannot imagine. But now, for your comfort, you are
safe--Vous voilà quitte pour la peur! Do not, however, let this
encourage you to venture again in the same foolish manner. I know but
few, very few young ladies to whom Lord Glenthorn could offer himself
with any chance or reasonable hope of being refused. So take warning:
never again expect to meet with such another as my whimsical self."

"Never, never can I expect to meet with any thing resembling your
charming self," cried I. This was a new text for a lover's rhapsody. It
is not necessary, and might not be _generally_ interesting to repeat all
the ridiculous things I said, even if I could remember them.

Lady Geraldine listened to me, and then very calmly replied, "Granting
you believe all that you are saying at this minute, which I must grant
from common gratitude, and still more common vanity; nevertheless,
permit me to assure you, my lord, that this is not love; it is only a
fancy--only the nettle-rash, not the plague. You will not die this time.
I will insure your life. So now jump out of the window as fast as you
can, and unlock the door--you need not be afraid of breaking your
neck--you know your life is insured. Come, take the lover's leap, and
get rid of your passion at once."

I grew angry.

"Only a cloud," said Lady Geraldine--"it will blow over."

I became more passionate--I did not know the force of my own
feelings, till they met with an obstacle; they suddenly rose to a
surprising height.

"Now, my lord," cried Lady Geraldine with a tone and look of comic
vexation, "this is really the most provoking thing imaginable; you have
no idea how you distress me, nor of what exquisite pleasures you deprive
me--all the pleasures of coquetry; legitimate pleasures, in certain
circumstances, as I am instructed to think them by one of the first
moral authorities. There is a case--I quote from memory, my lord; for my
memory, like that of most other people, on subjects where I am deeply
interested, is tolerably tenacious--there is a case, says the best of
fathers, in his Legacy to the best of daughters--there is a case, where
a woman may coquet justifiably to the utmost verge which her conscience
will allow. It is where a gentleman purposely declines making his
addresses, till such time as he thinks himself perfectly sure of her
consent. Now, my lord, if you had had the goodness to do so, I might
have made this delightful case my own; and what charming latitude I
might have allowed my conscience! But now, alas! it is all over, and I
must be as frank as you have been, under pain of forfeiting what I value
more even than admiration--my own good opinion."

She paused, and was silent for a few moments; then suddenly changing her
manner, she exclaimed, in a serious, energetic tone, "Yes, I must, I
will be sincere; let it cost me what it may. I will be sincere. My lord,
I never can be yours. My lord, you will believe me, even from the effort
with which I speak:" her voice softened, and her face suffused with
crimson, as she spoke. "I love another--my heart is no longer in my own
possession; whether it will ever be in my power, consistently with my
duty and his principles, to be united with the man of my choice, is
doubtful--more than doubtful--but this is certain, that with such a
prepossession, such a conviction in my mind, I never could nor ought to
think of marrying any other person."

I pleaded, that however deserving of her preference the object of her
favour might be, yet that if there were, as her own prudence seemed to
suggest, obstacles, rendering the probability of her union with that
person more than doubtful, it might be possible that her superior sense
and strength of mind, joined to the persevering affection of another
lover, who would spare no exertions to render himself worthy of her,
might, perhaps, in time--

"No, no," said she, interrupting me; "do not deceive yourself. I will
not deceive you. I give you no hopes that my sentiments may change. I
know my own mind--it will not change. My attachment is founded on the
firm basis of esteem; my affection has grown from the intimate knowledge
of the principles and conduct of the man I love. No other man, let his
merits be what they may, could have these advantages in my opinion. And
when I say that the probability of our being united is more than
doubtful, I do not mean to deny that I have distant hope that change of
circumstances might render love and duty compatible. Without hope I know
love cannot long exist. You see I do not talk romantic nonsense to you.
All that you say of prudence, and time, and the effect of the attentions
of another admirer, would be perfectly just and applicable, if my
attachment were a fancy of yesterday--if it were a mere young lady's
commonplace first love; but I am not a _very_ young lady, nor is this,
though a first love, commonplace. I do not, you see, in the usual style,
tell you that the man I adore is an angel, and that no created form ever
did, or ever can, resemble this _angel in green and gold_; but, on the
contrary, do justice to your lordship's merit: and believing, as I do,
that you are capable of a real love; still more, believing that such an
attachment would rouse you to exertion, and bring to life and light a
surprising number of good qualities; yet I should deceive you
unpardonably, fatally for my own peace of mind, if not for yours, were I
not frankly and decidedly to assure you, that I never could reward or
return your affection. My attachment to--I trust entirely where I trust
at all--my attachment to Mr. Devereux is for life."

"He deserves it--deserves it all," cried I, struggling for utterance;
"that is as much as a rival can say."

"Not more than I expected from you, my lord."

"But your ladyship says there is a hope of duty and love being
compatible. _Would_ Lady Kildangan _ever_ consent?"

She looked much disturbed.

"No, certainly; not unless--Lord O'Toole has promised--not that I depend
on courtiers' promises--but Lord O'Toole is a relation of ours, and he
has promised to obtain an appointment abroad, in India, for Mr.
Devereux. If that were done, he might appear of more consequence in the
eyes of the world. My mother might then, perhaps, be propitious. My
lord, I give you the strongest proof of my esteem, by speaking with such
openness. I have had the honour of your lordship's acquaintance only a
few months; but without complimenting my own penetration, I may securely
trust to the judgment of Mr. Devereux, and his example has taught me to
feel confidence in your lordship. Your conduct now will, I trust,
justify my good opinion, by your secrecy; and by desisting from useless
pursuit you will entitle yourself to my esteem and gratitude. These, I
presume, you will think worth securing."

My soul was so completely touched, that I could not articulate.

"Mr. Devereux is right--I see, my lord, that you have a soul that can
be touched."

"Kissing hands, I protest!" exclaimed a shrill voice at the window. We
turned, and saw Mrs. O'Connor and a group of tittering faces peeping in.
"Kissing hands, after a good hour's tête-à-tête! Oh, pray, Lady
Kildangan, make haste here," continued Mrs. O'Connor; "make haste,
before Lady Geraldine's blushes are over."

"Were you ever detected in the crime of blushing, in your life, Mrs.
O'Connor?" said I.

"I never was found out locked up with so fine a gentleman," replied
Mrs. O'Connor.

"Then it hurts your conscience only to be found out, like all the
rest of the vast family of the Surfaces," said Lady Geraldine,
resuming her spirit.

"Found out!--Locked up!--bless me! bless me! What is all this?" cried
Lady Kildangan, puffing up the hill. "For shame! young ladies; for
shame!" continued her ladyship, with a decent suppression of her
satisfaction, when she saw, or thought she saw, how matters stood.
"Unlock the door, pray. Don't be vexed, my Geraldine. Fie! fie! Mrs.
O'Connor. But quizzing is now so fashionable--nobody can be angry with
any body. My Geraldine, consider we are all friends."

The door unlocked, and as we were going out, Lady Geraldine whispered to
me--"For mercy's sake, my lord, don't break my poor mother's heart!
Never let her know that a coronet has been within my grasp, and that I
have not clutched it."

Lady Kildangan, who thought that all was now approaching that happy
termination she so devoutly wished, was so full of her own happy
presentiments, that it was impossible for me to undeceive her ladyship.
Even when I announced before her, to Sir Harry Ormsby, that I was
obliged to return home immediately, on particular business, she was, I
am sure, persuaded that I was going to prepare matters for
marriage-settlements. When I mounted my horse, Mr. Devereux pressed
through a crowd assembled on the steps at the hall-door, and offered me
his hand, with a look and manner that seemed to say--Have you
sufficient generosity to be still my friend? "I know the value of your
friendship, Mr. Devereux," said I, "and I hope to deserve it better
every year that I live."

For the effort which it cost me to say this I was rewarded. Lady
Geraldine, who had retired behind her companions, at this instant
approached with an air of mingled grace and dignity, bowed her head, and
gave me a smile of grateful approbation. This is the last image left on
my mind, the last look of the charming Geraldine--I never saw her again.

After I got home I did not shave for two days, and scarcely ever spoke.
I should have taken to my bed to avoid seeing any human creature; but I
knew that if I declared myself ill, no power would keep my old nurse
Ellinor from coming to moan over me; and I was not in a humour to listen
to stories of the Irish Black Beard, or the ghost of King O'Donoghoe;
nor could I, however troublesome, have repulsed the simplicity of her
affection. Instead of going to bed, therefore, I continued to lie
stretched upon a sofa, ruminating sweet and bitter thoughts, after
giving absolute orders that I should not be disturbed on any account
whatever. Whilst I was in this state of reverie, one of my servants--an
odd Irish fellow, who, under pretence of being half-witted, took more
liberties than his companions--bolted into my presence.

"Plase your lordship, I thought it my duty, in spite of 'em all below,
to come up to advertise to your lordship of the news that's going
through the country. That they are all upside down at Ormsby Villa, all
mad entirely--fighting and setting off through the kingdom, every one
their own way; and, they say, it's all on account of something that Miss
Clemmy Ormsby told, that Lady Geraldine said about my Lord O'Toole's
being no better than a cat's paw, or something that way, which made his
lordship quite mad; and he said, in the presence of Captain Andrews, and
my Lady Kildangan, and Lady Geraldine, and all that were in it,
something that vexed Lady Geraldine, which made Mr. Cecil Devereux mad
next; and he said something smart in reply, that Lord O'Toole could not
digest, he said, which made his lordship madder than ever, and he
discharged Mr. Devereux from his favour, and he is not to get that place
that was vacant, the lord-lieutenancy of some place in the Indies that
he was to have had; this made Lady Geraldine mad, and it was found out
she was in love with Mr. Devereux, which made her mother mad, the
maddest of all, they say, so that none can hold her, and she is crying
night and day how her daughter might have had the first coronet in the
kingdom, _maning_ you, my lard, if it had not been that she _prefarred_
a beggar-man, _maning_ Mr. Cecil Devereux, who is as poor, they say, as
a Connaughtman--and he's forbid to think of her, and she's forbid, under
pain of bread and water, ever to set her eyes upon him the longest day
ever she lives; so the horses and coaches are ordered, and they are all
to be off with the first light for Dublin: and that's all, my lard; and
all truth, not a word of lies I'm telling."

I was inclined not to credit a story so oddly told; but, upon inquiry, I
found it true in its material points. My own words to Mr. Devereux, and
the parting look of Lady Geraldine, were full in my recollection; I was
determined, by an unexpected, exertion, to surprise both the lovers, and
to secure for ever their esteem and gratitude. The appointment, which
Mr. Devereux desired, was not yet given away; the fleet was to sail in a
few days. I started up from my sofa--ordered my carriage
instantly--shaved myself--sent a courier on before to have horses ready
at every stage to carry me to Dublin--got there in the shortest time
possible--found Lord O'Toole but just arrived. Though unused to
diplomatic language and political negotiation, I knew pretty well on
what they all _hinge_. I went directly to the point, and showed that it
would be the interest of the party concerned to grant my request. By
expressing a becoming desire that my boroughs, upon a question where a
majority was required, should _strengthen the hands of government_, I
obtained for my friend the favour he _deserved_. Before I quitted Lord
O'Toole, his secretary, Captain Andrews, was instructed to write a
letter, announcing to Mr. Devereux his appointment. A copy of the former
letter of refusal now lay before me; it was in his lordship's purest
diplomatic style--as follows:


"_Private_.

"Lord O'Toole is concerned to inform Mr. Devereux that he cannot feel
himself justified in encouraging Mr. D., under the existing
circumstances, to make any direct application relative to the last
conversation his lordship had the honour to hold with Mr. Devereux."

"To Cecil Devereux, Esq. &c. Thursday ------"


The letter which I obtained, and of which I took possession, ran
as follows:


"_Private_.

"Lord O'Toole is happy to have it in command to inform Mr. Devereux,
that his lordship's representations on the subject of their last
conversation have been thought sufficient, and that an official
notification of the appointment to India, which Mr. D. desired, will
meet the wishes of Mr. Devereux.

"Captain Andrews has the honour to add his congratulations."

"To Cecil Devereux, Esq. &c. Thursday ------"


Having despatched this business with a celerity that surprised all the
parties concerned, and most myself, I called at the lodgings of Mr.
Devereux, delivered the letter to his servant, and left town. I could
not bear to see either Mr. Devereux or Lady Geraldine. I had the
pleasure to hear, that the obtaining this appointment was followed by
Lady Kildangan's consent to their marriage. Soon after my return to
Glenthorn Castle, I received a letter of warm thanks from Devereux, and
a polite postscript from Lady Geraldine, declaring that, though she felt
much pleasure, she could feel no surprise in seeing her opinion of Lord
Glenthorn justified; persuaded, as she and Mr. Devereux had always been,
that only motive and opportunity were wanting to make his lordship's
superior qualities known to the world, and, what was still more
difficult, to himself. They left Ireland immediately afterwards in
consequence of their appointment in India.

I was raised in my own estimation--I revelled a short time in my
self-complacent reflections; but when nothing more remained to be done,
or to be said--when the hurry of action, the novelty of generosity, the
glow of enthusiasm, and the freshness of gratitude, were over, I felt
that, though large motives could now invigorate my mind, I was still a
prey to habitual indolence, and that I should relapse into my former
state of apathy and disease.




CHAPTER XII.


I remember to have heard, in some epilogue to a tragedy, that the tide
of pity and of love, whilst it overwhelms, fertilizes the soul. That it
may deposit the seeds of future fertilization, I believe; but some time
must elapse before they germinate: on the first retiring of the tide,
the prospect is barren and desolate. I was absolutely inert, and almost
imbecile for a considerable time, after the extraordinary stimulus, by
which I had been actuated, was withdrawn. I was in this state of apathy
when the rebellion broke out in Ireland; nor was I roused in the least
by the first news of the disturbances. The intelligence, however, so
much alarmed my English servants, that, with one accord, they left me;
nothing could persuade them to remain longer in Ireland. The parting
with my English gentleman affected my lethargic selfishness a little.
His loss would have been grievous to such a helpless being as I was, had
not his place been immediately supplied by that half-witted Irishman,
Joe Kelly, who had ingratiated himself with me by a mixture of drollery
and simplicity, and by suffering himself to be continually my
laughing-stock; for, in imitation of Lady Geraldine, I thought it
necessary to have a butt. I remember he first caught my notice by a
strange answer to a very simple question. I asked, "What noise is that I
hear?" "My lard," said he, "it is only the singing in my ears; I have
had it these six months." Another time, when I reproached him for having
told me a lie, he answered, "Why, now indeed, and plase your honour, my
lard, I tell as few lies as possibly I can." This fellow, the son of a
bricklayer, had originally been intended for a priest, and he went, as
he told me, to the College of Maynooth to study his _humanities_; but,
unluckily, the charms of some Irish Heloise came between him and the
altar. He lived in a cabin of love, till he was weary of his smoke-dried
Heloise, and then thought it _convanient_ to turn _sarving_ man, as he
could play on the flute, and brush a coat remarkably well, which he
_larned_ at Maynooth, by brushing the coats of the superiors. Though he
was willing to be laughed at, Joe Kelly could in his turn laugh; and he
now ridiculed, without mercy, the pusillanimity of the English
_renegadoes_, as he called the servants who had just left my service; He
assured me that, to his knowledge, there was no manner of danger,
_excepted a man prefarred being afraid of his own shadow, which some
did, rather than have nothing to talk of, or enter into resolutions
about, with some of the spirited men in the chair_.

Unwilling to be disturbed, I readily believed all that lulled me in my
security. I would not be at the trouble of reading the public papers;
and when they were read to me, I did not credit any paragraph that
militated against my own opinion. Nothing could awaken me. I remember,
one day, lying yawning on my sofa, repeating to Mr. M'Leod, who
endeavoured to open my eyes to the situation of the country, "Pshaw,
my dear sir; there is no danger, be assured--none at all--none at all.
For mercy's sake! talk to me of something more diverting, if you would
keep me awake; time enough to think of these things when they come
nearer to us."

Evils that were not immediately near me had no power to affect my
imagination. My tenantry had not yet been contaminated by the epidemic
infection, which broke out soon after with such violence as to threaten
the total destruction of all civil order. I had lived in England--I was
unacquainted with the causes and the progress of the disease, and I had
no notion of my danger; all I knew was, that some houses had been robbed
of arms, and that there was a set of desperate wretches called
_defenders_; but I was _annoyed_ only by the rout that was now made
about them. Having been used to the regular course of justice which
prevailed in England, I was more shocked at the summary proceedings of
my neighbours than alarmed at the symptoms of insurrection. Whilst my
mind was in this mood, I was provoked by the conduct of some of the
violent party, which wounded my personal pride, and infringed upon my
imagined consequence. My foster-brother's forge was searched for pikes,
his house ransacked, his bed and _bellows_, as possible hiding places,
were cut open; by accident, or from private malice, he received a shot
in his arm; and, though not the slightest cause of suspicion could be
found against him, the party left him with a broken arm, and the
consolation of not being sent to jail as a defender. Without making any
allowance for the peculiar circumstances of the country, my indignation
was excited in the extreme, by the injury done to my foster-brother; his
sufferings, the tears of his mother, the taunts of Mr. (now _Captain_)
Hardcastle, and the opposition made by his party, called forth all the
faculties of my mind and body. The poor fellow, who was the subject of
this contest, showed the best disposition imaginable: he was excessively
grateful to me for interesting myself to _get_ him justice; but as soon
as he found that parties ran high against me, he earnestly dissuaded me
from persisting.

"Let it drop, and _plase_ your honour; my lord, let it drop, and don't
be making of yourself _inimies_ for the likes of me. Sure, what
signifies my arm? and, before the next assizes, sha'n't I be as well as
ever, arm and all?" continued he, trying to appear to move the arm
without pain. "And there's the new bellows your honour has _give_ me; it
does my heart good to look at 'em, and it won't be long before I will be
blowing them again as stout as ever; and so God bless your honour, my
lord, and think no more about it--let it drop entirely, and don't be
bringing yourself into trouble."

"Ay, don't be bringing yourself into trouble, dear," added Ellinor, who
seemed half distracted between her feelings for her son and her fears
for me; "it's a shame to think of the way they've treated Christy--but
there's no help now, and it's best not to be making bad worse; and so,
as Christy says, let the thing drop, jewel, and don't be bringing
yourself into trouble; you don't know the _natur_ of them people,
dear--you are too _innocent_ for them entirely, and myself does not know
the mischief they might do _yees_."

"True for ye," pursued Christy; "I wouldn't for the best cow ever I see
that your honour ever larnt a sentence about me or my arm; and it is not
for such as we to be minding every little accident--so God lend you long
life, and don't be plaguing yourself to death! Let it drop, and I'll
sleep well the night, which I did not do the week, for thinking of all
the trouble you got, and would get, God presarve ye!"

This generous fellow's eloquence produced an effect directly contrary to
what was intended; both my feelings and my pride were now more warmly
interested in his cause. I insisted upon his swearing examinations
before Mr. M'Leod, who was a justice of the peace. Mr. M'Leod behaved
with the utmost steadiness and impartiality; and in this trying moment,
when "it was infamy to seem my friend," he defended my conduct calmly,
but resolutely, in private and in public, and gave his unequivocal
testimony, in few but decided words, in favour of my injured tenant. I
should have respected Mr. M'Leod more, if I had not attributed this
conduct to his desire of being returned for one of my boroughs at the
approaching election. He endeavoured, with persevering goodness, to
convince me of the reality of the danger in the country. My eyes were
with much difficulty forced open so far as to perceive that it was
necessary to take an active part in public affairs to vindicate my
loyalty, and to do away the prejudices that were entertained against me;
nor did my incredulity, as to the magnitude of the peril, prevent me
from making exertions essential to the defence of my own character, if
not to that of the nation. How few act from purely patriotic and
rational motives! At all events I acted, and acted with energy; and
certainly at this period of my life I felt no ennui. Party spirit is an
effectual cure for ennui; and perhaps it is for this reason that so many
are addicted to its intemperance. All my passions were roused, and my
mind and body kept in continual activity. I was either galloping, or
haranguing, or fearing, or hoping, or fighting; and so long as it was
said that I could not sleep in my bed, I slept remarkably well, and
never had so good an appetite as when I was in hourly danger of having
nothing to eat. _The rebels were up_, and _the rebels were down_--and
Lord Glenthorn's spirited conduct in the chair, and indefatigable
exertions in the field, were the theme of daily eulogium amongst my
convivial companions and immediate dependants. But, unfortunately, my
sudden activity gained me no credit amongst the violent party of my
neighbours, who persisted in their suspicions; and my reputation was now
still more injured, by the alternate charge of being a trimmer or a
traitor. Nay, I was further exposed to another danger, of which, from my
ignorance of the country, I could not possibly be aware. The disaffected
themselves, as I afterwards found, really believed, that, as I had not
begun by persecuting the poor, I must be a favourer of the rebels; and
all that I did to bring the guilty to justice, they thought was only to
give a _colour to the thing_, till the proper moment should come for my
declaring myself. Of this absurd and perverse mode of judging I had not
the slightest conception; and I only laughed when it was hinted to me.
My treating the matter so lightly confirmed suspicion on both sides. At
this time all objects were so magnified and distorted by the mist of
prejudice, that no inexperienced eye could judge of their real
proportions. Neither party could believe the simple truth, that my
tardiness to act arose from the habitual _inertia_ of my mind and body.

Whilst prepossessions were thus strong, the time, the important time, in
Ireland the most important season of the year, the assizes, arrived. My
foster-brother's cause, or, as it was now generally called, _Lord
Glenthorn's_ cause, came on to be tried. I spared no expense, I spared
no exertions; I fee'd the ablest counsel; and not content with leaving
them to be instructed by my attorney, I explained the affair to them
myself with indefatigable zeal. One of the lawyers, whom I had seen, or
by whom I had been seen, in my former inert state of existence, at some
watering-place in England, could not refrain from expressing his
astonishment at my change of character; he could scarcely believe that I
was the same Lord Glenthorn, of whose indolence and ennui he had
formerly heard and seen so much.

Alas! all my activity, all my energy, on the present occasion, proved
ineffectual. After a dreadful quantity of false swearing, the jury
professed themselves satisfied; and, without retiring from the box,
acquitted the persons who had assaulted my foster-brother. The
mortification of this legal defeat was not all that I had to endure; the
victorious party mobbed me, as I passed some time afterwards through a
neighbouring town, where Captain Hardcastle and his friends had been
carousing. I was hooted, and pelted, and narrowly escaped with my
life--_I_ who, but a few months ago, had imagined myself possessed of
nearly despotic power: but opinions had changed; and on opinion almost
all power is founded. No individual, unless he possess uncommon
eloquence, joined to personal intrepidity, can withstand the combination
of numbers, and the force of prejudice.

Such was the result of my first public exertions! Yet I was now happier
and better satisfied with myself than I had ever been before. I was not
only conscious of having acted in a manly and generous manner, but the
alarms of the rebels, and of the French, and of the loyalists, and the
parading, and the galloping, and the quarrelling, and the continual
agitation in which I was kept, whilst my character and life were at
stake, relieved me effectually from the intolerable burden of ennui.




CHAPTER XIII.


    "And, for the book of knowledge fair,
    Presented with an universal blank
    Of Nature's works, to me expunged and rased."

Unfortunately _for me_, the rebellion in Ireland was soon quelled; the
nightly scouring of our county ceased; the poor people returned to their
duty and their homes; the occupation of upstart and ignorant
_associators_ ceased, and their consequence sunk at once. Things and
persons settled to their natural level. The influence of men of
property, and birth, and education, and character, once more prevailed.
The spirit of party ceased to operate: my neighbours wakened, as if from
a dream, and wondered at the strange injustice with which I had been
treated. Those who had lately been my combined enemies were disunited,
and each was eager to assure me that he had _always been privately my
friend_, but that he was compelled to conceal his sentiments: each
exculpated himself, and threw the blame on others: all apologized to me,
and professed to be my most devoted humble servants. My popularity, my
power, and my prosperity were now at their zenith, _unfortunately for
me;_ because my adversity had not lasted long enough to form and season
my character. I had been driven to exertion by a mixture of pride and
generosity; my understanding being uncultivated, I had acted from the
virtuous impulse of the moment, but never from rational motive, which
alone can be permanent in its operation. When the spur of the occasion
pressed upon me no longer, I relapsed into my former inactivity. When
the great interests and strong passions, by which I had been impelled to
exertion, subsided, all other feelings, and all less objects, seemed
stale, flat, and unprofitable. For the tranquillity which I was now left
to enjoy I had no taste; it appeared to me a dead calm, most spiritless
and melancholy.

I remember hearing, some years afterwards, a Frenchman, who had been in
imminent danger of been guillotined by Robespierre, and who at last was
one of those who arrested the tyrant, declare, that when the bustle and
horror of the revolution were over, he could hardly keep himself awake;
and that he thought it very insipid to live in quiet with his wife and
family. He further summed up the catalogue of Robespierre's crimes, by
exclaiming, "D'ailleurs c'étoit un grand philanthrope!" I am not
conscious of any disposition to cruelty, and I heard this man's speech
with disgust; yet upon a candid self-examination, I must confess, that I
have felt, though from different causes, some degree of what he
described. Perhaps _ennui_ may have had a share in creating revolutions.
A French author pronounces ennui to be "a moral indigestion, caused by a
monotony of situations!"

I had no wife or family to make domestic life agreeable: nor was I
inclined to a second marriage, my first had proved so unfortunate, and
the recollection of my disappointment with Lady Geraldine was so recent.
Even the love of power no longer acted upon me: my power was now
undisputed. My jealousy and suspicions of my agent, Mr. M'Leod, were
about this time completely conquered, by his behaviour at a general
election. I perceived that he had no underhand design upon my boroughs;
and that he never attempted or wished to interfere in my affairs, except
at my particular desire. My confidence in him became absolute and
unbounded; but this was really a misfortune to me, for it became the
cause of my having still less to do. I gave up all business, and from
all manner of trouble I was now free: yet I became more and more
unhappy, and my nervous complaints returned. I was not aware that I was
taking the very means to increase my own disease. The philosophical Dr.
Cullen observes, that "whatever aversion to application of any kind may
appear in hypochondriacs, there is nothing more pernicious to them than
absolute idleness, or a vacancy from all earnest pursuit. It is owing to
wealth admitting of indolence, and leading to the pursuit of transitory
and unsatisfying amusements, or exhausting pleasures only, that the
present times exhibit to us so many instances of hypochondriacism."

I fancied that change of air and change of place would do me good; and,
as it was fine summer weather, I projected various parties of pleasure.
The Giants' Causeway, and the Lake of Killarney, were the only things I
had ever heard mentioned as worth seeing in Ireland. I suffered myself
to be carried into the county of Antrim, and I saw the Giants' Causeway.
From the description given by Dr. Hamilton of some of these wonders of
nature, the reader may judge how much I _ought_ to have been astonished
and delighted.

In the bold promontory of Bengore, you behold, as you look up from the
sea, a gigantic colonnade of basaltes, supporting a black mass of
irregular rock, over which rises another range of pillars, "forming
altogether a perpendicular height of one hundred and seventy feet, from
the base of which the promontory, covered over with rock and grass,
slopes down to the sea, for the space of two hundred feet more: making,
in all, a mass of near four hundred feet in height, which, in the beauty
and variety of its colouring, in elegance and novelty of arrangement,
and in the extraordinary magnificence of its objects, cannot be
rivalled."

Yet I was seized with a fit of yawning, as I sat in my pleasure-boat, to
admire this sublime spectacle. I looked at my watch, observed that we
should be late for dinner, and grew impatient to be rowed back to the
place where we were to dine; not that I was hungry, but I wanted to be
again set in motion. Neither science nor taste expanded my view; and I
saw nothing worthy of my admiration, or capable of giving me pleasure.
The watching a straw floating down the tide was the only amusement I
recollect to have enjoyed upon this excursion.

I was assured, however, by Lady Ormsby, that I could not help being
enchanted with the Lake of Killarney. The party was arranged by this
lady, who, having the preceding summer seen me captivated by Lady
Geraldine, and pitying my disappointment, had formed the obliging design
of restoring my spirits, and marrying me to one of her near relatives.
She calculated, that as I had been charmed by Lady Geraldine's vivacity,
I must be enchanted with the fine spirits of Lady Jocunda Lawler. So far
were the thoughts of marriage from my imagination, that I only was sorry
to find a young lady smuggled into our party, because I was afraid she
would be troublesome: but I resolved to be quite passive upon all
occasions, where attentions to the fair sex are sometimes expected. My
arm, or my hand, or my assistance, in any manner, I was determined not
to offer: the lounging indifference which some fashionable young men
affect towards ladies, I really felt; and, besides, nobody minds
unmarried women! This fashion was _most convenient to my indolence. In
my state of torpor I was_ not, however, long left in peace. Lady Jocunda
was a high-bred romp, who made it a rule to say and do whatever she
pleased. In a hundred indirect ways I was called upon to admire her
charming spirits: but the rattling voice, loud laughter, flippant wit,
and hoyden gaiety, of Lady Jocunda, disgusted me beyond expression. A
thousand times on my journey I wished myself quietly asleep in my own
castle. Arrived at Killarney, such blowing of horns, such boating, such
seeing of prospects, such prosing of guides, all telling us what to
admire! Then such exclamations, and such clambering! I was walked and
talked till I was half-dead. I wished the rocks, and the hanging-woods,
and the glens, and the water-falls, and the arbutus, and the myrtles,
and the upper and lower lakes, and the islands, and Mucruss, and Mucruss
Abbey, and the purple mountain, and the eagle's nest, and the Grand
Turk, and the lights and the shades, and the echoes, and, above all, the
Lady Jocunda, fairly at the devil.

A nobleman in the neighbourhood had the politeness to invite us to see a
stag-hunt upon the water. The account of this diversion, which I had met
with in my Guide to the Lakes,[83] promised well. I consented to stay
another day: that day I really was revived by this spectacle, for it was
new. The sublime and the beautiful had no charms for me: novelty was the
only power that could waken me from my lethargy; perhaps there was in
this spectacle something more than novelty. The Romans had recourse to
shows of wild beasts and gladiators to relieve their ennui. At all
events, I was kept awake this whole morning, though I cannot say that I
felt in _such ecstasies as to be in any imminent danger of jumping out
of the boat_.

_Of our journey back from Killarney I remember nothing, but_ my being
discomfited by Lady Jocunda's practical jests and overpowering gaiety.
When she addressed herself to me, my answers were as constrained and as
concise as possible; and, as I was afterwards told, I seemed, at the
close of my reply to each interrogative of her ladyship's, to answer
with Odin's prophetess,

    "Now my weary lips I close;
    Leave me, leave me to repose."

This she never did till we parted; and, at that moment, I believe, my
satisfaction appeared so visible, that Lady Ormsby gave up all hopes of
me. Arrived at my own castle, I threw myself on my bed quite exhausted.
I took three hours' additional sleep every day for a week, to recruit my
strength, and rest my nerves, after all that I had been made to suffer
by this young lady's prodigious animal spirits.




CHAPTER XIV.


I could now boast that I had travelled all over Ireland, from north to
south; but, in fact, I had seen nothing of the country or of its
inhabitants. In these commodious parties of pleasure, every thing had
been provided to prevent the obstacles that roused my faculties.
Accustomed by this time to the Hibernian tone, I fancied that I knew all
that could be known of the Irish character; familiarized with the comic
expressions of the lower class of people, they amused me no longer. On
this journey, however, I recollect making one observation, and once
laughing at what I thought a practical bull. We saw a number of
labourers at work in a bog, on a very hot day, with a fire lighted close
to them. When I afterwards mentioned, before Mr. M'Leod, this
circumstance, which I had thought absurd, he informed me that the Irish
labourers often light fires, that the smoke may drive away or destroy
those myriads of tiny flies, called _midges_, by which they are often
tormented so much, that without this remedy, they would, in hot and damp
weather, be obliged to abandon their work. Had I been sufficiently
active during my journey to pen a journal, I should certainly, without
further inquiry, have noted down, that the Irish labourers _always_
light fires in the hottest weather to cool themselves; and thus I should
have added one more to the number of cursory travellers, who expose
their own ignorance, whilst they attempt to ridicule local customs, of
which they have not inquired the cause, or discovered the utility.

A foreigner, who has lately written Letters on England, has given a
laughable instance of this promptitude of misapprehension. He says, he
had heard much of the venality of the British parliament, but he had no
idea of the degree to which it extended, till he actually was an
eye-witness of the scene. The moment the minister entered the House, all
the members ran about exclaiming, "Places! places!" which means, Give us
places--give us places.

My heavy indolence fortunately preserved me from exposing myself, like
these volatile tourists. I was at least secure from the danger of making
mistakes in telling what I never saw.

As to the mode of living of the Irish, their domestic comforts or
grievances, their habits and opinions, their increasing or decreasing
ambition to better their condition, the proportion between the
population and the quantity of land cultivated or capable of
cultivation, the difference between the profits of the husbandman and
the artificer, the relation between the nominal wages of labour and the
actual command over the necessaries of life;--these were questions
wholly foreign to my thoughts, and, at this period of my life,
absolutely beyond the range of my understanding. I had travelled through
my own country without making even a single remark upon the various
degrees of industry and civilization visible in different parts of the
kingdom. In fact, it never occurred to me that it became a British
nobleman to have some notion of the general state of that empire, in the
legislation of which he has a share; nor had I the slightest suspicion
that political economy was a study requisite or suitable to my rank in
life or situation in society. Satisfied with having seen all that is
worth seeing in Ireland, the Giants' Causeway and the Lake of Killarney,
I was now impatient to return to England. During the rebellion, I could
not, with honour, desert my post; but now that tranquillity was
apparently restored, I determined to quit a country of which my partial
knowledge had in every respect been unfortunate. This resolution of mine
to leave Ireland threw Ellinor into despair, and she used all her
eloquence to dissuade me from the journey. I was quite surprised by the
agony of grief into which she was thrown by the dread of my departure. I
felt astonished that one human being could be so attached to another,
and I really envied her sensibility. My new man, Joe Kelly, also
displayed much reluctance at the thoughts of leaving his native country;
and this sentiment inclined Ellinor to think more favourably of him,
though she could not quite forgive him for being a Kelly of Ballymuddy.

"Troth," said she to him one day, in my presence, "none of them Kellys
of Ballymuddy but what are a bad clan! Joey, is not there your own
_broder's_ uncle lying in the jail of ------ at this present time for
the murder of a woman?"--"Well," replied Joe, "and if he was so
unfortunate to be _put up_, which was not _asy_ done neither, is it not
better and more _creditabler_ to lie in a jail for a murder than a
robbery, I ask you?" This new scale of crimes surprised me; but Joe
spoke what was the sense of many of his countrymen at that period.

By various petty attentions, this man contrived to persuade me of the
sincerity of his attachment: chiefly by the art of appearing to be
managed by me in all things, he insensibly obtained power over my pride;
and, by saving me daily trouble, secured considerable influence over my
indolence. More than any one whom I had ever seen, he had the knack of
seeming half-witted--too simple to overreach, and yet sufficiently acute
and droll to divert his master. I liked to have him about me, as
uncultivated kings like to have their fools. One of our ancient monarchs
is said to have given three parishes to his _joculator_; I gave only
three farms to mine. I had a sort of mean pride in making my favourite
an object of envy: besides, I fell into the common mistake of the
inexperienced great, who fancy that attachment can be purchased, and
that gratitude can be secured, by favours disproportioned to deserts.
Joe Kelly, by sundry manoeuvres too minute for description, contrived to
make me delay, from day to day, the preparations for my journey to
England. From week to week it was put off till the autumn was far
advanced. At length Kelly had nothing left to _suggest_, but that it
would be best to wait for answers from my English steward to the letters
that had been written to inquire whether every thing was ready for my
reception. During this interval, I avoided every human creature (except
Joe Kelly), and was in great danger of becoming a misanthrope from mere
indolence. I did not hate my fellow-creatures, but I dreaded the trouble
of talking to them. My only recreation, at this period, was sauntering
out in the evening beside the sea-shore. It was my regular practice to
sit down upon a certain large stone, at the foot of a rock, to watch the
ebbing of the tide. There was something in the contemplation of the sea
and of the tides which was fascinating to my mind. I could sit and look
at the ocean whole hours together; for, without any exertion of my own,
I beheld a grand operation of nature, accompanied with a sort of vast
monotony of motion and sound, which lulled me into reverie.

Late one evening, as I was seated on my accustomed stone, my attention
was slightly diverted from the sea by the sight of a man descending the
crag above me, in rather a perilous manner. With one end of a rope
coiled round his body, and the other fastened to a stake driven into the
summit of the rock, he let himself half-way down the terrible height.
One foot now rested on a projecting point, one hand held the rope, and
hanging thus midway in the air, he seemed busy searching in the crevices
of the rock, for the eggs of water-fowl. This dangerous trade I had seen
frequently plied on this coast, so that I should scarcely have regarded
the man if he had not turned, from time to time, as if to watch me. When
he saw that he had fixed my eye, he threw down, as I thought, a white
stone, which fell nearly at my feet. I stooped to examine it; the man
waited till he saw it in my hands, then coiled himself swiftly up his
rope to the summit of the rock, and disappeared. I found a paper tied
round the stone, and on this paper, in a hand-writing that seemed to be
feigned, were written these words:--


"Your life and caracter, one or t'other--say both, is in danger. Don't
be walking here any more late in the evening, near them caves, nor don't
go near the old abbey, any time--And don't be trusting to Joe Kelly any
way--Lave the kingdom entirely; the wind sarves.

"So prays your true well-wisher.

"P.S. Lave the castle the morrow, and say nothing of this to Joe Kelly,
or you'll repent when it's all over wid you."


I was startled a little by this letter at first, but in half an hour I
relapsed into my apathy. Many gentlemen in the country had received
anonymous letters: I had been tired of hearing of them during the
rebellion. This, I thought, might be only a _quiz_, or a trick to hurry
me out of the kingdom, contrived by some of those who desired my
absence. In short, the labour of _thinking_ about the matter fatigued
me. I burned the letter as soon as I got home, and resolved not to
puzzle or plague myself about it any more. My steward's answer came the
next morning from England; Kelly made no difficulty, when I ordered him
to be ready to set out in three days. This confirmed me in my opinion
that the letter was malicious, or a jest. Mr. M'Leod came to take leave
of me. I mentioned the circumstance to him slightly, and in general
terms: he looked very serious, and said, "All these things are little in
themselves, but are to be heeded, as marking the unsettled minds of the
people--straws that show which way the wind blows. I apprehend we shall
have a rough winter again, though we have had so still a summer. The
people about us are too _hush_ and too prudent--it is not their
natures--there's something contriving among them: they don't break one
another's heads at fairs as they used to do; they keep from whiskey;
there must be some strong motive working this change upon them--good or
bad, 'tis hard to say which. My lord, if we consider the condition of
these poor people, and if we consider the causes--"

"Oh! for Heaven's sake, do not let us consider any more about it now; I
am more than half asleep already," said I, yawning; "and our considering
about it can do no good, to _me_ at least; for you know I am going out
of the kingdom; and when I am gone, M'Leod, you, in whom I have implicit
confidence, must manage as you always used to do, you know, and as well
as you can."

"True," said M'Leod, calmly, "that is what I shall do, indubitably; for
that is my duty, and since your lordship has implicit confidence in me,
my pleasure. I wish your lordship a good night and a good journey."

"I shall not set out in the morning; not till the day after to-morrow, I
believe," said I; "for I feel consumedly tired to-night: they have
plagued me about so many things to-day; so much business always before
one can get away from a place; and then Joe Kelly has no head."

"Have a care he has not too much head, my lord, as your anonymous
correspondent hints--he may be right there: I told you from the first I
would not go security for Joe Kelly's honesty; and where there is not
strict honesty, I conceive there ought not to be implicit confidence."

"Oh, hang it! as to honesty, they are none of them honest; I know that:
but would you have me plague myself till I find a strictly honest
servant? Joe's as honest as his neighbours, I dare say: the fellow
diverts me, and is attached to me, and that's all I can expect. I must
submit to be cheated, as all men of large fortunes are, more or less."

Mr. M'Leod listened with stubborn patience, and replied, that if I
thought it necessary to submit to be cheated he could make no objection,
except where it might come under his cognizance, and then he must take
the liberty to remonstrate, or to give up his agency to some of the
many, who could play better than he could the part of the dog in the
fable, _pretending_ to guard his master's meat.

The cold ungracious integrity of this man, even in my own cause, at once
excited my spleen and commanded my respect. After shaking my leg, as I
sat for two minutes in silence, I called after M'Leod, who moved towards
the door, "Why, what can I do, Mr. M'Leod? What would you have me do?
Now, don't give me one of your dry answers, but let me have your notions
as a friend: you know, M'Leod, I cannot help having the most perfect
confidence in you."

He bowed, but rather stiffly.

"I am proud to hear you cannot help that, my lord," said he. "As to a
friend, I never considered myself upon that footing till now: but, as
you at present honour me so far as to ask my counsel, I am free to give
it. Part with Joe Kelly to-night; and whether you go or stay, you are
safer without him. Joe's a rogue: he can do no good, and may do harm."

"Then," said I, "you are really frightened by this anonymous letter?"

"Cannot a man take prudent precautions without being frightened?"
said M'Leod.

"But have you any particular reason to believe--in short to--to think,
there can be any real danger for my life?"

"No particular reason, my lord; but the general reasons I have
mentioned, the symptoms among the common people lead me to apprehend
there may be fresh _risings_ of the people soon; and you, as a man of
fortune and rank, must be in danger. Captain Hardcastle says that he has
had informations of seditious meetings; but, he being a prejudiced man,
I don't trust altogether to what he says."

"Trust altogether to what he says!" exclaimed I; "no, surely; for my
part, I do not trust a word he says; and his giving it as his opinion
that the people are ill-inclined would decide me to believe the exact
contrary."

"It would hardly be safe to judge that way either," said M'Leod; "for
that method of judging by contraries might make another's folly the
master of one's own sense."

"I don't comprehend you now. Safe way of judging or not, Captain
Hardcastle's opinion shall never lead mine. When I asked for your
advice, Mr. M'Leod, it was because I have a respect for your
understanding; but I cannot defer to Captain Hardcastle's. I am now
decided in my own opinion, that the people in this neighbourhood are
perfectly well-disposed; and as to this anonymous letter, it is a mere
trick, depend upon it, my good sir. I am surprised that a man of your
capacity should be the dupe of such a thing; I should not be surprised
if Hardcastle himself, or some of his people, wrote it."

"I should," said M'Leod, coolly.

"You should!" cried I, warmly. "Why so? And why do you pronounce so
decidedly, my good friend? Have not I the same means of judging as you
have? unless, indeed, you have some private reason with which I am
unacquainted. Perhaps," cried I, starting half up from the sofa on which
I lay, charmed with a bright idea, which had just struck me, "perhaps,
M'Leod, you wrote the letter yourself for a jest. Did you?"

"That's a question, my lord," said M'Leod, growing suddenly red, and
snatching up his hat with a quicker motion than I ever saw from him
before, "that's a question, my lord, which I must take leave not to
answer; a question, give me leave to add, my Lord Glenthorn," continued
he, speaking in a broader Scotch accent than I had ever heard from him
before, "which I should knock my equal _doon_ for putting to me. A
M'Leod, my lord, in jest or in earnest, would scorn to write to any man
breathing that letter to which he would not put his name; and more, a
M'Leod would scorn to write or to say that thing, to which he ought not
to put his name. Your humble servant, my Lord Glenthorn," said he, and,
making a hasty bow, departed.

I called after him, and even followed him to the head of the stairs, to
explain and apologize; but in vain: I never saw him angry before.

"It's very weel, my lord, it's very weel; if you say you meant nothing
offensive, it's very weel; but if you think fit, my lord, we will sleep
upon it before we talk any more. I am a wee bit warmer than I could
wish, and your lordship has the advantage of me, in being cool. A M'Leod
is apt to grow warm, when he's touched on the point of honour; and
there's no wisdom in talking when a man's not his own master."

"My good friend," said I, seizing his hand as he was buttoning up his
coat, "I like you the better for this warmth; but I won't let you sleep
upon your wrath: you must shake hands with me before that hall-door is
opened to you."

"Then so I do, for there's no standing against this frankness; and, to
be as frank with you, my lord, I was wrong myself to be so testy--I ask
pardon, too. A M'Leod never thought it a disgrace to crave a pardon when
he was wrong."

We shook hands, and parted better friends than ever. I spoke the exact
truth when I said that I liked him the better for his warmth: his anger
wakened me, and gave me something to think of, and some emotion for a
few minutes. Joe Kelly presently afterwards came, with the simplest face
imaginable, to inquire what I had determined about the journey.

"To put it off till the day after to-morrow," said I. "Light me to bed."

He obeyed; but observed, that "it was not his fault now if there was
puttings-off; for his share, every thing was ready, and he was willing
and ready to follow me, at a moment's warning, to the world's end, as he
had a good right to do, let alone inclination; for, parting me, he could
never be right in himself: and though loth to part his country, he had
rather part that _nor_[84] me."

Then, without dwelling upon these expressions of attachment, he changed
to a merry mood, and by his drolleries diverted me all the time I was
going to bed, and at last fairly talked me asleep.




CHAPTER XV.


When the first grey light of morning began to make objects indistinctly
visible, I thought I saw the door of my apartment open very softly. I
was broad awake, and kept my eyes fixed upon it--it opened by very slow
degrees; my head was so full of visions, that I expected a ghost to
enter--but it was only Ellinor.

"Ellinor!" cried I; "is it you at this time in the morning?"

"Hush! hush!" said she, shutting the door with great precaution, and
then coming on tiptoe close to my bedside; "for the love of God, speak
softly, and make no stir to awake them that's asleep near and too near
you. It's unknown to all that I come up; for may be, when them people
are awake and about, I might not get the opportunity to speak, or they
might guess I knew something by my looks."

Her looks were full of terror--I was all amazement and expectation.
Before she would say a word more, she searched the closets carefully,
and looked behind the tapestry, as if she apprehended that she might be
overheard: satisfied that we were alone, she went on speaking, but
still in a voice that, with my utmost strained attention, I could but
just hear.

"As you hope to live and breathe," said she, "never go again after
night-fall any time walking in that lone place by the sea-shore. It's a
mercy you escaped as you did; but if you go again you'll never come back
alive--for never would they get you to do what they want, and to be as
wicked as themselves the wicked villains!"

"Who?" said I. "What wicked villains? I do not understand you; are you
in your right senses?"

"That I am, and wish you was as much in yours; but it's time yet, by the
blessing of God! What wicked villains am I talking of? Of three hundred
that have sworn to make you their captain, or, in case you refuse, to
have your life this night. What villains am I talking of? Of him, the
wickedest of all, who is now living in the very house with you, that is
now lying in the very next room to you."

"Joe Kelly?"

"That same. From the first minute I saw him in the castle, I should have
hated him, but for his causing you for to put off the journey to
England. I never could abide him; but that blinded me, or I am sure I
would have found him out long ago."

"And what have you found out concerning him?"

"That he is (speaking very low) a _united-man_, and stirring up the
_rubbles_ again here; and they have their meetings at night in the great
cave, where the smugglers used to hide formerly, under the big rock,
opposite the old abbey--and there's a way up into the abbey, that you
used to be so fond of walking to, dear."

"Good Heavens! can this be true?"

"True it is, and too true, dear."

"But how did you find all this out, Ellinor?"

"It was none of I found it, nor ever could any such things have come
into my head--but it pleased God to make the discovery of all by one of
the _childer_--my own grandson--the boy you gave the gun to, long and
long ago, to shoot them rabbits. He was after a hare yesterday, and it
took him a chase over that mountain, and down it went and took shelter
in the cave, and in went the boy after it, and as he was groping about,
he lights on an old great coat; and he brought it home with him, and was
showing it, as I was boiling the potatoes for their dinner yesterday, to
his father forenent me; and turning the pockets inside out, what should
come up but the broken head of a pipe; then he _sarches_ in the other
pocket, and finds a paper written all over--I could not read it--thank
God, I never could read none of them wicked things, nor could the
boy--by very great luck he could not, being no scholar, or it would be
all over the country before this."

"Well, well! but what was in the paper after all? Did any body read it?"

"Ay, did they--that is, Christy read it--none but Christy--but he
would not tell us what was in it--but said it was no matter, and he'd
not be wasting his time reading an old song--so we thought no more, and
he sent the boy up to the castle with a bill for smith's work, as soon
as we had eat the potatoes, and I thought no more about any thing's
being going wrong, no more than a child; and in the evening Christy said
he must go to the funeral of a neighbour, and should not be home till
early in the morning, may be; and it's not two hours since he came home
and wakened me, and told me where he had been, which was not to the
funeral at all, but to the cave where the coat was found; and he put the
coat and the broken head of the pike, and the papers all in the pockets,
just as we found it, in the cave--and the paper was a list of the names
of them _rubbles_ that met there, and a letter telling how they would
make Lord Glenthorn their captain, or have his life; this was what made
Christy to try and find out more--so he hid hisself in a hole in the
side of the cave, and built hisself up with rubbish, only just leaving a
place for hisself to breathe--and there he stayed till nightfall; and
then on till midnight, God help us! so sure enough, them villains all
come filling fast into the cave. He had good courage, God bless him for
it--but he always had--and there he heard and saw all--and this was how
they were talking:--First, one began by saying, how they must not be
delaying longer to show themselves; they must make a rising in the
country--then named the numbers in other parts that would join, and that
they would not be put down so _asy_ as afore, for they would have good
leaders--then some praised you greatly, and said they was sure you
favoured them in your heart, by all the ill-will you got in the county
the time of the last 'ruction. But, again, others said you was milk and
water, and did not go far enough, and never would, and that it was not
in you, and that you was a sleepy man, and not the true thing at all,
and neither beef nor _vael_. Again, thim that were for you spoke and
said you would show yourself soon--and the others made reply, and
observed you must now spake out, or never spake more; you must either
head 'em, or be tramped under foot along with the rest, so it did not
signify talking, and Joey Kelly should not be fribbling any more about
it; and it was a wonder, said they, he was not the night at the meeting.
And what was this about your being going off for England--what would
they do when you was gone with M'Leod the Scotchman, to come in over
them again agent, who was another guess sort of man from you, and never
slept at all, and would scent 'em out, and have his corps after 'em, and
that once M'Leod was master, there would be no making any head again his
head; so, not to be tiring you too much with all they said, backward and
forward, one that was a captain, or something that way, took the word,
and bid 'em all hold their peace, for they did not know what they was
talking on, and said that Joey Kelly and he had settled it all, and that
the going to England was put off by Joe, and all a sham, and that when
you would be walking out to-morrow at nightfall, in those lone places by
the sea-side or the abbey, he and Joe was to seize upon you, and when
you would be coming back near the abbey, to have you down through the
trap-door into the cave, and any way they would swear you to join and
head them, and if you would not, out with you, and shove you into the
sea, and no more about it, for it would be give out you drown' yourself
in a fit of the melancholy lunacy, which none would question, and it
would be proved too you made away wid yourself, by your hat and gloves
lying on the bank--Lord save us! What are you laughing at in that, when
it is truth every word, and Joe Kelly was to find the body, after a
great search. Well, again, say you would swear and join them, and head
them, and do whatever they pleased, still that would not save you in the
end; for they would quarrel with you at the first turn, because you
would not be ruled by them as captain, and then they would shoot or pike
you (God save the mark, dear), and give the castle to Joe Kelly, and the
plunder all among 'em entirely. So it was all laid out, and they are all
to meet in the cave to-morrow evening--they will go along bearing a
funeral, seemingly to the abbey-ground. And now you know the whole
truth, and the Lord preserve you! And what will be done? My poor head
has no more power to think for you no more than an infant's, and I'm all
in a tremble ever since I heard it, and afraid to meet any one lest they
should see all in my face. Oh, what will become of _yees_ now--they will
be the death of you, whatever you do!"

By the time she came to these last words, Ellinor's fears had so much
overpowered her, that she cried and sobbed continually, repeating--"What
will be done now! What will be done! They'll surely be the death of you,
whatever you do." As to me, the urgency of the danger wakened my
faculties: I rose instantly, wrote a note to Mr. M'Leod, desiring to see
him immediately on particular business. Lest my note should by any
accident be intercepted or opened, I couched it in the most general and
guarded terms; and added a request, that he would bring his last
settlement of accounts with him; so that it was natural to suppose my
business with him was of a pecuniary nature. I gradually quieted poor
Ellinor by my own appearance of composure: I assured her, that we should
take our measures so as to prevent all mischief--thanked her for the
timely warning she had given me--advised her to go home before she was
observed, and charged her not to speak to any one this day of what had
happened. I desired that as soon as she should see Mr. M'Leod coming
through the gate, she would send Christy after him to the castle, to get
his bill paid; so that I might then, without exciting suspicion, talk to
him in private, and we might learn from his own lips the particulars of
what he saw and heard in the cavern.

Ellinor returned home, promising to obey me exactly, especially as to my
injunction of secrecy--to make sure of herself she said "she would go to
bed straight, and have the rheumatism very bad all day; so as not to be
in a way to talk to none who would call in." The note to M'Leod was
despatched by one of my grooms, and I, returning to bed, was now left at
full leisure to finish my morning's nap.

Joe Kelly presented himself at the usual hour in my room; I turned my
head away from him, and, in a sleepy tone, muttered that I had passed a
bad night, and should breakfast in my own apartment.

Some time afterwards Mr. M'Leod arrived, with an air of sturdy pride,
and produced his accounts, of which I suffered him to talk, till the
servant who waited upon us had left the room; I then explained the real
cause of my sending for him so suddenly. I was rather vexed, that I
could not produce in him, by my wonderful narrative, any visible signs
of agitation or astonishment. He calmly observed--"We are lucky to have
so many hours of daylight before us. The first thing we have to do is to
keep the old woman from talking."

I answered for Ellinor.

"Then the next thing is for me, who am a magistrate, to take the
examinations of her son, and see if he will swear to the same
that he says."

Christy was summoned into our presence, and he came with his _bill for
smith's work done_; so that the servants could have no suspicion of what
was going forward. His examinations were taken and sworn to in a few
minutes: his evidence was so clear and direct, that there was no
possibility of doubting the truth. The only variation between his story
and his mother's report to me was as to the numbers he had seen in the
cavern--her fears had turned thirteen into three hundred.

Christy assured us that there were but thirteen at this meeting, but
that they said there were three hundred ready to join them.

"You were a very bold fellow, Christy," said I, "to hazard yourself in
the cave with these villains; if you had been found out in your
hiding-place, they would have certainly murdered you."

"True for me." said Christy; "but a man must die some way, please your
honour; and where's the way I could die better? Sure, I could not but
remember how good you was to me that time I was shot, and all you
suffered for it! It would have been bad indeed if I would stay quiet,
and let 'em murder you after all. No, no, Christy O'Donoghoe would not
do that--any way. I hope, if there's to be any fighting, your honour
would not wrong me so much as not to give me a blunderbush, and let me
fight a bit along wid de rest for yees."

"We are not come to that yet, my good fellow," said Mr. M'Leod, who went
on methodically; "if you are precipitate, you will spoil all. Go home to
your forge, and work as usual, and leave the rest to us; and I promise
that you shall have your share, if there is any fighting."

Very reluctantly Christy obeyed. Mr. M'Leod then deliberately settled
our plan of operations. I had a fishing-lodge at a little distance, and
a pleasure-boat there: to this place M'Leod was to go, as if on a
fishing-party with his nephew, a young man, who often went there to
fish. They were to carry with them some yeomen in coloured clothes, as
their attendants, and more were to come as their guests to dinner. At
the lodge there was a small four-pounder, which had been frequently used
in times of public rejoicing; a naval victory, announced in the papers
of the day, afforded a plausible pretence for bringing it out. We were
aware that the rebels would be upon the watch, and therefore took every
precaution to prevent their suspecting that we had made any discovery.
Our fishing-party was to let the mock-funeral pass them quietly, to ask
some trifling questions, and to give money for pipes and tobacco.
Towards evening the boat, with the four-pounder on board, was to come
under shore, and at a signal given by me was to station itself opposite
to the mouth of the cave.

At the same signal a trusty man on the watch was to give notice to a
party hid in the abbey, to secure the trap-door above. The signal was to
be my presenting a pistol to the captain of the rebels, who intended to
meet and seize me on my return from my evening's walk. Mr. M'Leod at
first objected to my hazarding a meeting with this man; but I insisted
upon it, and I was not sorry to give a public proof of my loyalty, and
my personal courage. As to Joe Kelly, I also undertook to secure him.

Mr. M'Leod left me, and went to conduct his fishing-party. As soon as he
was gone, I sent for Joe Kelly to play on the flute to me. I guarded my
looks and voice as well as I could, and he did not see or suspect any
thing--he was too full of his own schemes. To disguise his own plots he
affected great gaiety; and to divert me, alternately played on the
flute, and told me good stories all the morning. I would not let him
leave me the whole day. Towards evening I began to talk of my journey to
England, proposed setting out the next morning, and sent Kelly to look
for some things in what was called _the strong closet_--a closet with a
stout door and iron-barred windows, out of which no mortal could make
his escape. Whilst he was busy searching in a drawer, I shut the door
upon him, locked it, and put the key into my pocket. As I left the
castle, I said in a jesting tone to some of the servants who met me--"I
have locked Joe Kelly up in the strong room; if he calls to you to let
him out never mind him; he will not get out till I come home from my
walk--I owe him this trick." The servants thought it was some jest, and
I passed on with my loaded pistols in my pocket. I walked for some time
by the sea-shore, without seeing any one. At last I espied our
fishing-boat, just peering out, and then keeping close to the shore. I
was afraid that the party would be impatient at not seeing my signal,
and would come out to the mouth of the cave, and show themselves too
soon. If Mr. M'Leod had not been their commander, this, as I afterwards
learned, would have infallibly happened; but he was so punctual, cool,
and peremptory, that he restrained the rest of the party, declaring
that, if it were till midnight, he would wait till the signal agreed
upon was given. At last I saw a man creeping out of the cave--I sat down
upon my wonted stone, and yawned as naturally as I could; then began to
describe figures in the sand with my stick, as I was wont to do, still
watching the image of the man in the water as he approached. He was
muffled up in a frieze great coat; he sauntered past, and went on to a
turn in the road, as if looking for some one. I knew well for whom he
was looking. As no Joe Kelly came to meet him, he returned in a few
minutes towards me. I had my hand upon the pistol in my pocket.

"You are my Lard Glenthorn, I presume," said he.

"I am."

"Then you will come with me, if you plase, my lard," said he.

"Make no resistance, or I will shoot you instantly," cried I, presenting
my pistol with one hand, and seizing him by the collar with the other. I
dragged him (for I had force enough, now my energy was roused) to the
spot appointed for my signal. The boat appeared opposite the mouth of
the cave. Every thing answered my expectation.

"There," said I, pointing to the boat, "there are my armed friends; they
have a four-pounder--the match is ready lighted--your plot is
discovered. Go in to your confederates in that cave; tell them so. The
trap-door is secured above; there is no escape for them: bid them
surrender: if they attempt to rush out, the grape shot will pour upon
them, and they are dead men."

I cannot say that my rebel captain showed himself as stout as I could
have wished, for the honour of my victory. The surprise disconcerted him
totally: I felt him tremble under my grasp. He obeyed my orders--went
into the cave to bring his associates to submission. His parley with
them, however, was not immediately successful: I suppose there were some
braver fellows than he amongst them, whose counsel might be for open
war. In the mean time our yeomen landed, and surrounded the cave on all
sides, so that there was no possibility of escape for those within. At
last they yielded themselves our prisoners. I am sorry I have no bloody
battle for the entertainment of such of my readers as like horrors; but
so it was, that they yielded without a drop of blood being spilled, or a
shot fired. We let them out of their hiding-place one by one, searching
each as he issued forth, to be secure that they had no concealed
weapons. After they had given up the arms which were concealed in the
cave, the next question was, what to do with our prisoners. As it was
now late, and they could not all be examined and committed with due
legal form to the county gaol, Mr. M'Leod advised that we should detain
them in the place they had chosen for themselves till morning.
Accordingly, in the cave we again stowed them, and left a guard at each
entrance to secure them for the night. We returned to the castle. I
stopped at the gate to tell Ellinor and Christy that I was safe. They
were sitting up watching for the news. The moment Ellinor saw me, she
clasped her hands in an ecstasy of joy, but could not speak. Christy was
voluble in his congratulations; but, in the midst of his rejoicing, he
could not help reproaching me with forgetting to give him the
_blunderbush_, and to let him have a bit of the fighting. "Upon my
honour," said I, "there was none, or you should have been there."

"Oh, don't be plaguing and gathering round him now," said Ellinor: "sure
he is tired, and look how hot--no wonder--let him get home and to bed:
I'll run and warm it with the pan myself, and not be trusting them."

She would not be persuaded that I did not desire to have my bed warmed,
but, by some short cut, got in before us. On entering the castle-hall, I
found her, with the warming-pan in her hand, held back by the
inquisitive servants, who were all questioning her about the news, of
which she was the first, and not very intelligible enunciator.

I called for bread and water for my prisoner in the strong-room, and
then I heard various exclamations of wonder.

"Ay, it is all true! it is no jest! Joe is at the bottom of all. _I_
never liked Joe Kelly--_I_ always knew Joe was not the right thing--and
_I_ always said so; and I, and I, and I. And it was but last week I was
saying so: and it was but yesterday _I_ said so and so."

I passed through the gossiping crowd with bread and water for my
culprit. McLeod instantly saw and followed me.

"I will make bold to come with you," said he; "a pent rat's a dangerous
animal."--I thanked him, and acquiesced; but there was no need for the
precaution. When we opened the door, we found the conscience or
terror-struck wretch upon his knees, and in the most abject terms he
implored for mercy. From the windows of the room, which looked into the
castle-yard, he had heard enough to guess all that had happened. I could
not bear to look at him. After I had set down his food, he clung to my
knees, crying and whining in a most unmanly manner. McLeod, with
indignation, loosened him from me, threw him back, and locked the door.

"Cowardice and treachery," said he, "usually go together."

"And courage and sincerity," said I. "And now we'll go to supper, my
good friends. I hope you are all as hungry as I am."

I never did eat any meal with so much appetite.

"Tis a pity, my lord," said McLeod, "but that there was a conspiracy
against you every day of your life, it seems to do you so much good."




CHAPTER XVI.


"What new wonders? What new misfortunes, Ellinor?" said I, as Ellinor,
with a face of consternation, appeared again in the morning in my room,
just as I was going down to breakfast: "what new misfortunes, Ellinor?"

"Oh! the worst that could befall me!" cried she, wringing her hands;
"the worst, the very worst!--to be the death of my own child!" said
she, with inexpressible horror. "Oh! save him! save him! for the
love of heaven, dear, save him! If you don't save him, 'tis I shall
be his death."

She was in such agony, that she could not explain herself farther for
some minutes.

"It was I gave the information against them all to you. But how could I
ever have thought Owen was one of them? My son, my own son, the
unfortunate cratur; I never thought but what he was with the militia far
away. And how could it ever come into my head that Owen could have any
hand in a thing of the kind?"

"But I did not see him last night," interrupted I.

"Oh! he was there! One of his own friends, one of the military that went
with you, saw him among the prisoners, and came just now to tell me of
it. That Owen should be guilty of the like!--Oh! what could have come
over him! He must have been out of his _rason_. And against you to be
plotting! That's what I never will believe, if even I'd hear it from
himself. But he's among them that were taken last night. And will I live
to see him go to gaol?--and will I live to see--No, I'd rather die
first, a thousand and a thousand times over. Oh! for mercy's sake!" said
she, dropping on her knees at my feet, "have pity on me, and don't let
the blood of my own child be upon me in my old days."

"What would you have me do, Ellinor?" said I, much moved by her
distress.

"There is but one thing to do," said she. "Let him off: sure a word from
you would be enough for the soldiers that are over them on guard. And
Mr. McLeod has not yet seen him; and if he was just let escape, there
would be no more about it; and I'd I engage he shall fly the country,
the unfortunate cratur! and never trouble you more. This is all I ask:
and sure, dear, you can't refuse it to your own Ellinor; your old nurse,
that carried ye in her arms, and fed ye with her milk, and watched over
ye many's the long night, and loved ye; ay, none ever loved, or could
love ye so well."

"I am sensible of it; I am grateful," interrupted I; "but what you ask
of me, Ellinor, is impossible--I cannot let him escape; but I will do
my utmost."

"Troth, nothing will save him, if you would not say the word for him
now. Ah! why cannot you let him off, then?"

"I should lose my honour; I should lose my character. You know that I
have been accused of favouring the rebels already--you saw the
consequences of my protecting your other son, though he was innocent and
injured, and bore an excellent character."

"Christy; ay, true: but poor Owen, unlucky as he is, and misguided, has
a better claim upon you."

"How can that be? Is not the other my foster-brother, in the
first place?"

"True for him."

"And had not I proofs of his generous conduct and attachment to me?"

"Owen is naturally fonder of you by a great deal," interrupted she;
"I'll answer for that."

"What! when he has just been detected in conspiring against my life?"

"That's what I'll never believe," cried Ellinor, vehemently: "that he
might be drawn in, may be, when out of his _rason_--he was always a wild
boy--to be a united-man, and to hope to get you for his captain, might
be the case, and bad enough that; but, jewel, you'll find he did never
conspire against you: I'd lay down my life upon that."

She threw herself again at my feet, and clung to my knees.

"As you hope for mercy yourself in this world, or the world to come,
show some now, and do not be so hard-hearted as to be the death of both
mother and son."

Her supplicating looks and gestures, her words, her tears, moved me so
much, that I was on the point of yielding; but recollecting what was due
to justice and to my own character, with an effort of what I thought
virtuous resolution, I repeated, "It is impossible: my good Ellinor,
urge me no farther: ask any thing else, and it shall be granted, but
this is impossible."

As I spoke, I endeavoured to raise her from the ground; but with the
sudden force of angry despair, she resisted.

"No, you shall not raise me," cried she. "Here let me lie, and break my
heart with your cruelty! 'Tis a judgment upon me--it's a judgment, and
it's fit I should feel it as I do. But you shall feel too, in spite of
your hard heart. Yes, your heart is harder than the marble: you want the
natural touch, you do; for your mother has knelt at your feet, and you
have denied her prayer."

"My mother!"

"And what was her prayer?--to save the life of your brother."

"My brother! Good heavens! what do I hear?"

"You hear the truth: you hear that I am your lawful mother. Yes, you are
my son. You have forced that secret from me, which I thought to have
carried with me to my grave. And now you know all: and now you know how
wicked I have been, and it was all for you; for you that refused me the
only thing ever I asked, and that, too, in my greatest distress, when my
heart was just breaking: and all this time too, there's Christy--poor
good Christy; he that I've wronged, and robbed of his rightful
inheritance, has been as a son, a dutiful good son to me, and never did
he deny me any thing I could ask; but in you I have found no touch of
tenderness. Then it's fit I should tell you again, and again, and again,
that he who is now slaving at the forge, to give me the earnings of his
labour; he that lives, and has lived all his days, upon potatoes and
salt, and is content; he who has the face and the hands so disguised
with the smoke and the black, that yourself asked him t'other day did he
ever wash his face since he was born--I tell ye, he it is who should
live in this castle, and sleep on that soft bed, and be lord of all
here--he is the true and real Lord Glenthorn, and to the wide world I'll
make it known. Ay, be pale and tremble, do; it's your turn now: I've
touched you now: but it's too late. In the face of day I shall confess
the wrong I've done; and I shall call upon you to give back to him all
that by right is his own."

Ellinor stopped short, for one of my servants at this instant came
into the room.

"My lord, Mr. McLeod desires me to let you know the guard has brought up
the prisoners, and he is going to commit them to gaol, and would be glad
to know if you choose to see them first, my lord."

Stupified by all I had just heard, I could only reply, that I would come
presently. Ellinor rushed past the servant,--"Are they come?" cried she.
"Where will I get a sight of them?" I stayed for a few minutes alone, to
decide upon what I ought to say and do. A multitude of ideas, more than
had ever come in my mind in a twelvemonth, passed through it in these
few minutes.

As I was slowly descending the great staircase, Ellinor came running, as
fast as she could run, to the foot of the stairs, exclaiming, "It's a
mistake! it's all a mistake, and I was a fool to believe them that
brought me the word. Sure Ody's not there at all! nor ever was in it.
I've seen them all, face to face; and my son's not one of them, nor ever
was: and I was a fool from beginning to end--and I beg your pardon
entirely," whispered she, coming close to my ear: "I was out of my
reason at the thought of that boy's being to suffer, and I, his mother,
the cause of it. Forgive all I said in my passion, my own best jewel:
you was always good and tender to me, and be the same still, dear. I'll
never say a word more about it to any one living: the secret shall die
with me. Sure, when my conscience has borne it so long, it may strive
and bear it a little longer for your sake: and it can't be long I have
to live, so that will make all easy. Hark! they are asking for you. Do
you go your ways into the great parlour, to Mr. McLeod, and think no
more of any thing at all but joy. My son's not one of them! I must go to
the forge, and tell Christy the good news."

Ellinor departed, quite satisfied with herself, with me, and with all
the world. She took it for granted that she left me in the same state of
mind, and that I should obey her injunctions, and _think of nothing but
joy_. Of what happened in the great parlour, and of the examinations of
the prisoners, I have but a confused recollection. I remember that Mr.
McLeod seemed rather surprised by my indifference to what concerned me
so nearly; and that he was obliged to do all the business himself. The
men were, I believe, all committed to gaol, and Joe Kelly turned king's
evidence; but as to any further particulars, I know no more than if I
had been in a dream. The discovery which Ellinor had just made to me
engrossed all my powers of attention.




CHAPTER XVII.


"Le vrai n'est pas toujours vraisemblable," says an acute observer of
human affairs. The romance of real life certainly goes beyond all other
romances; and there are facts which few writers would dare to put into
a book, as there are skies which few painters would venture to put into
a picture.

When I had leisure to reflect, I considered, that as yet I had no proof
of the truth of Ellinor's strange story, except her own assertions. I
sent for her again, to examine her more particularly. I was aware that,
if I alarmed her, I should so confuse her imagination, that I should
never obtain the truth; therefore I composed myself, and assumed my
usual external appearance of nonchalance. I received her lolling upon my
sofa, as usual, and I questioned her merely as if to gratify an idle
curiosity.

"Troth, dear," said she, "I'll tell you the whole story how it was, to
make your mind asy, which, God knows, mine never was, from that minute
it first came into my head, till this very time being. You mind the time
you got the cut in your head--no, not you, jewel; but the little lord
that was then, Christy there below that is.--Well, the cut was a
terrible cut as ever you seen, got by a fall on the fender from the
nurse's arms, that was drunk, three days after he was born."

"I remember to have heard my father talk of some accident of this sort,
which happened to me when I was an infant."

"Ay, sure enough it did, and that was what first put him in the notion
of taking the little lord out of the hands of the Dublin nurse-tenders,
and them that were about my Lady Glenthom, and did not know how to
manage her, which was the cause of her death: and he said he'd have his
own way about his son and heir any way, and have him nursed by a
wholesome woman in a cabin, and brought up hardy, as he, and the old
lord, and all the family, were before him. So with that he sends for me,
and he puts the young lord, God bless him, into my arms himself, and a
_donny_ thing he was that same time to look at, for he was but just out
of the surgeon's hands, the head just healed and scarred over like; and
my lord said there should be no more doctors never about him. So I took
him, that is, Christy, and you, to a house at the sea, for the salt
water, and showed him every justice; and my lord often came to see him
whilst he was in the country; but then he was off, after a time, to
Dublin, and I was in a lone place, where nobody came, and the child was
very sick with me, and you was all the time as fine and thriving a child
as ever you see; and I thought, to be sure, one night, that he would die
wid me. He was very bad, very bad indeed; and I was sitting up in bed,
rocking him backwards and forwards this ways: I thought with myself,
what a pity it was, the young lord should die, and he an only son and
heir, and the estate to go out of the family the Lord knows where; and
then the grief the father would be in: and then I thought how happy he
would be if he had such a fine _babby_ as you, dear; and you was a fine
_babby_ to be sure: and then I thought how happy it would be for you, if
you was in the place of the little lord: and then it came into my head,
just like a shot, where would be the harm to change you? for I thought
the real lord would surely die; and then, what a gain it would be to
all, if it was never known, and if the dead child was carried to the
grave, since it must go, as only poor Ellinor O'Donoghoe's, and no more
about it. Well, if it was a wicked thought, it was the devil himself put
it in my head, to be sure; for, only for him, I should never have had
the sense to think of such a thing, for I was always innocent like, and
not worldly given. But so it was, the devil put it in my head, and made
me do it, and showed me how, and all in a minute. So, I mind, your eyes
and hair were both of the very same colour, dear; and as to the rest,
there's no telling how those young things alter in a few months, and my
lord would not be down from Dublin in a hurry, so I settled it all
right; and as there was no likelihood at all the real lord would live,
that quieted my conscience; for I argued, it was better the father
should have any sort of child at all than none. So, when my lord came
down, I carried him the child to see, that is you, jewel. He praised me
greatly for all the care I had taken of his boy; and said, how finely
you was come on! and I never see a father in greater joy; and it would
have been a sin, I thought, to tell him the truth, after he took the
change that was put upon him so well, and it made him so happy like.
Well, I was afeard of my life he'd pull off the cap to search for the
scar, so I would not let your head be touched any way, dear, saying it
was tinder and soft still with the fall, and you'd cry if the cap was
stirred; and so I made it out indeed, very well; for, God forgive me, I
twitched the string under your chin, dear, and made you cry like mad,
when they would come to touch you. So there was no more about it, and I
had you home to myself, and, all in good time, the hair grew, and fine
thick hair it was, God bless you; and so there was no more about it, and
I got into no trouble at all, for it all fell out just as I had laid it
out, except that the real little young lord did not die as I thought;
and it was a wonder but he did, for you never saw none so near death,
and backwards and forwards, what turns of sickness he took with me for
months upon months, and year after year, so that none could think, no
more than me, there was any likelihood at all of rearing him to man's
estate. So that kept me easier in my mind concerning what I'd done; for
as I kept saying to myself, better the family should have an heir to the
estate, suppose not the right, than none at all; and if the father, nor
nobody, never found it out, there was he and all the family made happy
for life, and my child made a lord of, and none the wiser or the worse.
Well, so I down-argued my conscience; and any way I took to little
Christy, as he was now to be called--and I loved him, all as one as if
he was my own--not that he was ever as well-looking as Ody, or any of
the childer I had, but I never made any differ betwixt him and any of my
own--he can't say as I did, any how, and he has no reason to complain
of my being an unnat'ral mother to him, and being my foster-child I had
a right to love him as I did, and I never wronged him in any way, except
in the one article of changing him at nurse, which he being an infant,
and never knowing, wa" never a bit the worse for, nor never will, now.
So all's right^ dear, and make your mind asy, jewel; there's the whole
truth of the story, for you."

"But it is a very strange story, Ellinor, after all, and--and I have
only your word for it, and may be you are only taking advantage of my
regard for you to make me believe you."

"What is it, plase your honour?" said she, stepping forward, as if she
did not hear or understand me.

"I say, Ellinor, that after all I have no proof of the truth of this
story, except your word."

"And is not that enough? and where's the use of having more? but if it
will make you asy, sure I can give you proof--sure need you go farther
than the scar on his head? If he was shaved to-morrow, I'd engage you'd
see it fast enough. But sure, can't you put your hand up to your head
this minute, and feel there never was no scar there, nor if all the hair
you have, God save the mark, was shaved this minute, never a bit of a
scar would be to be seen: but proof is it you want?--why, there's the
surgeon that dressed the cut in the child's head, before he ever came to
me; sure he's the man that can't forget it, and that will tell all: so
to make your mind asy, see him, dear; but for your life don't let him
see your head to feel it, for he'd miss the scar, and might suspect
something by your going to question him."

"Where does he live?" interrupted I.

"Not above twelve miles off."

"Is he alive?"

"Ay, if he been't dead since Candlemas."

At first I thought of writing to this man; but afterwards, being afraid
of committing myself by writing, I went to him: he had long before this
time left off business, and had retired to enjoy his fortune in the
decline of life. He was a whimsical sort of character; he had some
remains of his former taste for anatomy, and was a collector of
curiosities. I found him just returned from a lake which he had been
dragging for a moose-deer's horns, to complete the skeleton of a
moose-deer, which he had mounted in his hall. I introduced myself,
desiring to see his museum, and mentioned to him the thigh-bone of a
giant found in ray neighbourhood; then by favour of this bone I
introduced the able cure that he had made of a cut in my head, when I
was a child.

"A cut in your head, sir? Yes, my lord, I recollect perfectly well, it
was a very ugly cut, especially in an infant's head; but I am glad to
find you feel no bad effects from it. Have you any cicatrice on the
place?--Eleven feet high, did you say? and is the giant's skeleton in
your neighbourhood?"

I humoured his fancy, and by degrees he gave me all the information I
wanted without in the least suspecting my secret motives. He described
the length, breadth, and depth, of the wound to me; showed me just where
it was on the head, and observed that it must have left an indelible
mark, but that my fine hair covered it. When he seemed disposed to
search for it, I defended myself with the giant's thigh-bone, and warded
off his attacks most successfully. To satisfy myself upon this point, I
affected to think that he had not been paid: he said he had been amply
paid, and he showed me his books to prove it. I examined the dates, and
found that they agreed with Ellinor's precisely. On my return home, the
first thing I did was to make Christy a present of a new wig, which I
was certain would induce him to shave his head; for the lower Irish
agree with the beaux and belles of London and Paris, in preferring wigs
to their own hair. Ellinor told me, that I might safely let his head be
shaved, because to her certain knowledge, he had scars of so many cuts
which he had received at fairs upon his skull, that there would appear
nothing particular _in one more or less_. As soon as the head was
shaved, and the wig was worn, I took an opportunity one day of stopping
at the forge to have one of my horse's shoes changed; and whilst this
was doing, I took notice of his new wig, and how well it fitted him. As
I expected, he took it off to show it me better, and to pay his own
compliments to it.

"Sure enough, you are a very fine wig," said he, apostrophising it as he
held it up on the end of his hammer; "and God bless him that give it me,
and it fits me as if it was nailed to my head."

"You seem to have had a good many nails in your head already, Christy,"
said I, "if one may judge by all these scars."

"Oh yes, please your honour, my lord," said he, "there's no harm in them
neither; they are scratches got when I was no wiser than I should be, at
fairs, fighting with the boys of Shrawd-na-scoob."

Whilst he fought his battles o'er again, I had leisure to study his
head; and I traced precisely all the boundary lines. The situation,
size, and figure of the cicatrice, which the surgeon and Ellinor had
described to me, were so visible and exact, that no doubt could remain
in my mind of Christy's being the real son of the late Lord and Lady
Glenthorn. This conviction was still more impressed upon my mind a few
days afterwards. I recollected having seen a file of family pictures in
a lumber-room in the castle; and I rummaged them out to see if I could
discover amongst them any likeness to Christy: I found one; the picture
of my grandfather,--I should say, of _his_ grandfather, to which Christy
bore a striking resemblance, when I saw him with his face washed, and in
his Sunday clothes.

My mind being now perfectly satisfied of the truth of Ellinor's story, I
was next to consider how I ought to act. To be or not to be Lord
Glenthorn, or, in other words, to be or not to be a villain, was now the
question. I could not dissemble to my conscience this plain state of the
case, that I had no right to keep possession of that which I knew to be
another's lawful property; yet, educated as I had been, and accustomed
to the long enjoyment of those luxuries, which become necessaries to the
wealthy; habituated to attendance as I had been; and, even amongst the
dissipated and idle, notorious for extravagance the most unbounded and
indolence the most inveterate; how was I at once to change my habits, to
abdicate my rank and power, to encounter the evils of poverty? I was not
compelled to make such sacrifices; for though Ellinor's transient
passion had prompted her to threaten me with a public discovery, yet I
knew that she would as soon cut off her own right hand as execute her
threats. Her affection for me, and her pride in my consequence, were so
strong, that I knew I might securely rely upon her secrecy. The horrid
idea of being the cause of the death of one of her own children had for
a moment sufficient power to balance her love for me; yet there was but
little probability that any similar trial should occur, nor had I reason
to apprehend that the reproaches of her conscience should induce her to
make a voluntary discovery; for all her ideas of virtue depended on the
principle of fidelity to the objects of her affection, and no scrupulous
notions of justice disturbed her understanding or alarmed her
self-complacency. Conscious that she would willingly sacrifice all she
had in the world for any body she loved, and scarcely comprehending that
any one could be selfish, she, in a confused way, applied the maxim of
"Do as you would be done by," and was as generous of the property of
others as of her own. At the worst, if a law-suit commenced against me,
I knew that possession was nine points of the law. I also knew that
Ellinor's health was declining, and that the secret would die with her.
Unlawful possession of the wealth I enjoyed could not, however, satisfy
my own mind; and, after a severe conflict between my love of ease and my
sense of right--between my tastes and my principles--I determined to act
honestly and honourably, and to relinquish what I could no longer
maintain without committing injustice, and feeling remorse. I was,
perhaps, the more ready to do rightly because I felt that I was not
compelled to it. The moment when I made this virtuous decision was the
happiest I had at that time ever felt: my mind seemed suddenly relieved
from an oppressive weight; my whole frame glowed with new life; and the
consciousness of courageous integrity elevated me so much in my own
opinion, that titles, and rank, and fortune, appeared as nothing in my
estimation. I rang my bell eagerly, and ordered that Christy O'Donoghoe
should be immediately sent for. The servant went instantly; but it
seemed to me an immoderately long time before Christy arrived. I walked
up and down the room impatiently, and at last threw myself at full
length upon the sofa: the servant returned.

"The smith is below in the hall, my lord."

"Show him up."--He was shown up into the ante-chamber.

"The smith is at the door, my lord."

"Show him in, cannot you? What detains him?"

"My brogues, my lord! I'd be afraid to come in with 'em on the carpet."
Saying this, Christy came in, stepping fearfully, astonished to find
himself in a splendid drawing-room.

"Were you never in this room before, Christy?" said I.

"Never, my lord, plase your honour, barring the day I mended the bolt."

"It is a fine room, is not it, Christy?"

"Troth, it is the finest ever I see, sure enough."

"How should you like to have such a room of your own, Christy?"

"Is it I, plase your honour?" replied he, laughing; "what should I do
with the like?"

"How should you feel if you were master of this great castle?"

"It's a poor figure I should make, to be sure," said he, turning his
head over his shoulder towards the door, and resting upon the lock: "I'd
rather be at the forge by a great _dale_."

"Are you sure of that, Christy? Should not you like to be able to live
without working any more, and to have horses and servants of your own?"

"What would I do with them, plase your honour, I that have never been
used to them? sure they'd all laugh at me, and I'd not be the better o'
that, no more than of having nothing to do; I that have been always used
to the work, what should I do all the day without it? But sure, my
lord," continued he, changing his voice to a more serious tone, "the
horse that I shod yesterday for your honour did not go lame, did he?"

"The horse is very well shod, I believe; I have not ridden him since: I
know nothing of the matter."

"Because I was thinking, may be, it was that made your honour send for
me up in the hurry--I was afeard I'd find your honour mad with me; and
I'd be very sorry to disoblige you, my lord; and I'm glad to see your
honour looking so well after all the trouble you've been put to by them
_rubbles_, the villains, to be _consarting_ against you under-ground.
But, thanks be to God, you have 'em all in gaol now. I thought my mother
would have died of the fright she took, when the report came that Ody
was one of them. I told her there could not be no truth in it at all,
but she would not mind me: it would be a strange unnatural thing,
indeed, of any belonging to her to be plotting against your honour. I
knew Ody could not be in it, and be a brother of mine; and that's what I
kept saying all the time but she never heeded me: for, your honour
knows, when the women are frighted, and have taken a thing into their
heads, you can't asy get it out again."

"Very true: but to return to what I was saying, should not you like to
change places with me, if you could?"

"Your honour, my lord, is a very happy jantleman, and a very good
jantleman, there's no doubt, and there's few but would be proud to be
like you in any thing at all."

"Thank you for that compliment. But now, in plain English, as to
yourself, would you like to be in my place--to change places with me?"

"In your honour's place--I! I would _not_, my lord; and that's the
truth, now," said he, decidedly. "I would not: no offence--your honour
bid me to speak the truth; for I've all I want in the world, a good
mother, and a good wife, and good _childer_, and a reasonable good
little cabin, and my little _pratees_, and the grazing of the cow, and
work enough always, and not called on to slave, and I get my health,
thank God for all; and what more could I have if I should be made a lord
to-morrow? Sure, my good woman would never make a lady; and what should
I do with her? I'd be grieved to see her the laughing-stock of high and
low, besides being the same myself, and my boy after me. That would
never answer for me; so I am not like them that would overturn all to
get uppermost; I never had any hand, art, or part, in a thing of the
kind; I always thought and knew I was best as I am; not but what, if I
was to change with any, it is with you, my lord, I would be proud to
change; because if I was to be a jantleman at all, I'd wish to be of a
_ra-al_ good _ould_ family born."

"You are then what you wish to be?" said I.

"Och!" said he, laughing and scratching his head, "your honour's jesting
me about them kings of Ireland, that they say the O'Donoghoes was once:
but that's what I never think _on_, that's all idle talk for the like of
me, for sure that's a long time ago, and what use going back to it? One
might as well be going back to Adam, that was the father of all, but
which makes no differ now."

"But you do not understand me," interrupted I; "I am not going back to
the kings of Ireland: I mean to tell you, that you were born a
gentleman--nay, I am perfectly serious; listen to me."

"I do, plase your honour, though it is mocking me, I know you are; I
would be sorry not to take a joke as well as another."

"This is no joke; I repeat that I am serious. You are not only a
gentleman, but a nobleman: to you this castle and this great estate
belongs, and to you they shall be surrendered."

He stood astonished; and, his eyes opening wide, showed a great circle
of white in his black face.

"Eh!" cried he, drawing that long breath, which astonishment had
suppressed. "But how can this be?"

"Your mother can explain better than I can: your mother, did I say? she
is not your mother; Lady Glenthorn was your mother."

"I can't understand it at all--I can't understand it at all. I'll lave
it all to your honour," said he, making a motion with his hands, as if
to throw from him the trouble of comprehending it.

"Did you never hear of such a thing as a child's being changed at
nurse?"

"I did, plase your honour; but _my_ mother would never do the like, I'll
answer for _her_, any way; and them that said any thing of the kind,
belied her; and don't be believing them, my lord."

"But Ellinor was the person who told me this secret."

"Was she so? Oh, she must have been _draaming_; she was always too good
a mother to me to have sarved me so. But," added he, struggling to clear
his intellects, "you say it's not my mother she is; but whose mother is
she then? Can it be that she is yours? 'tis not possible to think such a
great lord was the son of such as her, to look at you both: and was you
the son of my father Johnny O'Donoghoe? How is that again?"

He rubbed his forehead; and I could scarcely forbear laughing at his odd
perplexity, though the subject was of such serious importance. When he
clearly understood the case, and thoroughly believed the truth, he did
not seem elated by this sudden change of fortune; he really thought more
of me than of himself.

"Well, I'll tell you what you will do then," continued he, after a pause
of deep reflection; "say nothing to nobody, but just keep asy on, even
as we are. Don't let there be any surrendering at all, and I'll speak to
my mother, that is, Ellinor O'Donoghoe, and settle it so; and let it be
so settled, in the name of God, and no more about it: and none need
never be the wiser; 'tis so best for all. A good day to your honour, and
I'll go shoe the mare."

"Stay," said I; "you may hereafter repent of this sudden determination.
I insist upon your taking four-and-twenty hours--no, that would be too
little--take a month to consider of it coolly, and then let me know your
final determination."

"Oh! plase your honour, I will say the same then as now. It would be a
poor thing indeed of me, after all you done for me and mine, to be
putting you to more trouble. It would be a poor thing of me to forget
how you liked to have lost your life all along with me at the time of
the 'ruction. No, I'll not take the fortin from you, any how."

"Put gratitude to me out of the question," said I. "Far be it from me to
take advantage of your affectionate temper. I do not consider you as
under any obligations to me; nor will I be paid for doing justice."

"Sure enough, your honour desarved to be born a gentleman," said
Christy.

"At least I have been bred a gentleman," said I. "Let me see you again
this day month, and not till then."

"You shall not--that is, you _shall_, plase your honour: but for fear
any one would suspect any thing, I'd best go shoe the mare, any way."




CHAPTER XVIII.


    "What riches give us, let us then inquire--
    Meat fire, and clothes--What more?--Meat, clothes, and fire."

The philosophy we learn from books makes but a faint impression upon the
mind, in comparison with that which we are taught by our own experience;
and we sometimes feel surprised to find that what we have been taught as
maxims of morality prove true in real life. After having had, for many
years, the fullest opportunities of judging of the value of riches, when
I reflected upon my past life, I perceived that their power of
conferring happiness is limited, nearly as the philosophic poet
describes; that all the changes and modifications of luxury must, in the
sum of actual physical enjoyment, be reduced to a few elementary
pleasures, of which the industrious poor can obtain their share: a small
share, perhaps; but then it is enjoyed with a zest that makes it equal
in value perhaps to the largest portion offered to the sated palate of
ennui. These truths are as old as the world; but they appeared quite new
to me, when I discovered them by my own experience.

During the month which I had allowed to my foster-brother for
reflection, I had leisure to philosophize, and my understanding made a
rapid progress. I foresaw the probability of Christy's deciding to
become Earl of Glenthorn; notwithstanding that his good sense had so
clearly demonstrated to him in theory, that, with his education and
habits, he must be happier working in his forge than he could be as lord
of Glenthorn Castle. I was not dismayed by the idea of losing my wealth
and rank; I was pleased with myself for my honest conduct, and conscious
of a degree of pleasure from my own approbation, superior to what my
riches had ever procured.

The day appointed for Christy's final determination arrived. I knew by
the first motion of his shoulder as he came into the room, what his
decision would be.

"Well, Christy," said I, "you will be Earl of Glenthorn, I perceive. You
are glad now that I did not take you at your word, and that I gave you a
month's time for consideration."

"Your honour was always considerate; but if I'd wish now to be changing
my mind," said he, hesitating, and shifting from leg to leg, "it is not
upon my own account, any way, but upon my son Johnny's."

"My good friend," said I, "no apology is necessary. I should be very
unjust if I were offended by your decision, and very mean if, after the
declarations I have made, I could, for an instant, hesitate to restore
to you that property which it is your right and your choice to reclaim."

Christy made a low bow, and seemed much at a loss what he was to say
next.

"I hope," continued I, "that you will be as happy when you are Earl of
Glenthorn, as you have been as Christy O'Donoghoe."

"May be not, plase your honour; but I trust my childer will be happy
after me; and it's them and my wife I'm thinking of, as in duty bound.
But it is hard your honour should be astray for want of the fortin
you've been bred to; and this weighs with me greatly on the other side.
If your honour could live on here, and share with us--But I see your
honour's displeased at my naming _that_. It was my wife thought o' that;
I knew it could not do. But then, what I think is, that your honour
should name what you would be pleased to keep to live upon: for, to be
sure, you have a right to live as a gentleman, that have always lived as
one, as every body knows, and none better than I. Would your honour be
so kind, then, as just to put down on a bit of paper what you'd wish to
keep; and that same, whatever it is, none shall touch but yourself; and
I would not own a child for mine that would begrudge it you. I'll step
down and wait below while your honour writes what you plase."

The generosity of this man touched me to the heart. I accepted from him
three hundred a year; and requested that the annuity I allowed to the
unfortunate Lady Glenthorn might be continued; that the house which I
had built for Ellinor, and the land belonging to it, might be secured to
her rent-free for life; and that all my debts should be paid. I
recommended Mr. M'Leod in the strongest manner, as an agent whose
abilities and integrity would be to him an invaluable treasure.

Christy, when I gave him the paper on which I had stated these requests,
took a pen instantly, and would have signed his name without reading it;
but to this I absolutely objected.

"Well, then," said he, "I'll take it home, and read it over, and take
time, as you desire, to consider. There's no danger of my changing my
mind about this: I hope your honour can't think there is."

The next day, on returning it to me, he observed, that it was making
very little of him to put down only such a trifle; and he pressed me to
make the hundreds thousands:--this I refused.

"But I hope your honour won't object to what I am going to propose. Is
not there a house in London? and is not there another in England, in the
country? and, sure, I and mine can't live there and here and every where
at once: if you'd just condescend to occupy one of them, you'd do me a
great pleasure, and a great sarvice too; for every thing would be right,
instead of going wrong, as it might under an agent, and me at a
distance, that does not know well how to manage such great estates. I
hope you'll not refuse me that, if it's only to show me I don't lose
your honour's good-will."

The offer was made with so much earnestness, and even delicacy, that I
could not abruptly refuse it at the moment, though one of these
magnificent houses could be of no use tome with an income of 300_l_.
_per annum_.

"As to the annuity," continued Christy, "that shall be paid as
punctual as the day: Mr. M'Leod will pay it; and he shall have it all
settled right, and put upon a stamp, by the lawyers, in case any thing
should happen me. Then, as to Ellinor, sure, she is my mother, for I
never can think of her any other way; and, except in that single
article of changing me at nurse, was always the best of mothers to me.
And even that same trick she played me, though very wicked, to be sure,
was very nat'ral--ay, very nat'ral--to _prefar_ her own flesh and blood
if she could: and no one could be more sorry for the wrong she did me
than she is now: there she is crying at home, ready to break her heart:
but as I tell her, there's no use in repenting a thing when once it is
done; and as I forgive her, none can ever bring it up against her: and
as to the house and farm, she shall surely have that, and shall never
want for any thing. So I hope your honour's mind will be asy on that
matter; and whatever else you recollect to wish, _that_ shall be done,
if in my power."

It is with pleasure that I recollect and record all these instances of
goodness of heart in poor Christy, which, notwithstanding the odd
mixture of absurdity and sense in his language and ideas, will, I make
no doubt, please my readers, though they cannot affect them as much as
they affected me. I now prepared for my departure from Glenthorn Castle,
never more to return. To spare me from unnecessary mortification,
Christy had the wonderful self-command to keep the secret faithfully, so
that none of the people in the neighbourhood, nor even my servants, had
the slightest idea of the truth. Having long talked of returning to
England, the preparations for my journey excited no surprise. Every
thing went on as usual, except that Christy, instead of being at the
forge, was almost every day at the whiskey-shop.

I thought it proper to speak openly of my affairs to Mr. M'Leod: he was
the only person who could make out a correct list of my debts. Besides,
I wished to recommend him as agent to the future earl, to whom an honest
and able agent would be peculiarly necessary, ignorant, as he was, both
of the world and of business; and surrounded, as he must probably be, on
his accession to his estate, by a herd of vulgar and designing
flatterers.

Albeit not easily moved to surprise, Mr. M'Leod really did, for an
instant, look astonished, when I informed him that Christy O'Donoghoe
was Earl of Glenthorn. But I must resolve not to stop to describe the
astonishment that each individual showed upon this occasion, else I
shall never have finished my story.

It was settled that Mr. M'Leod should continue agent; and, for his
credit, I must observe that, after he was made acquainted with my loss
of rank and fortune, he treated me with infinitely more respect and
regard than he had ever shown me whilst he considered me only as his
employer. Our accounts were soon settled; and when this was done, and
they were all regularly signed, Mr. M'Leod came up to me, and, in a low
voice of great emotion, said, "I am not a man of professions; but when I
say I am a man's friend, I hope I shall ever be found to be so, as far
as can be in my power: and I cannot but esteem and admire the man who
has acted so nobly as you have done."

M'Leod wrung my hand as he spoke, and the tears stood in his eyes. I
knew that the feeling must indeed be strong, which could extort from him
even these few words of praise, and this simple profession of regard;
but I did not know, till long afterwards, the full warmth of his
affections and energy of his friendship. The very next day,
unfortunately for me, he was obliged to go to Scotland, to his mother,
who was dying: and at this time I saw no more of him.

In due legal form I now made a surrender of all claim upon the
hereditary property of the Earl of Glenthorn, and every thing was in
readiness for my journey. During this time poor Ellinor never appeared
at the castle. I went to see her, to comfort her about my going away;
but she was silent, and seemingly sullen, and would not be comforted.

"I've enough to grieve me," said she: "I know what will be the end of
all; I see it as plain as if you'd told me. There's no hiding nothing
from a mother: no, there's no use in striving to comfort me." Every
method which I tried to console her seemed to grieve her more.

The day before that which was fixed for my departure, I sent to desire
to see her. This request I had repeatedly made; but she had, from day to
day, excused herself, saying that she was unwell, and that she would be
up on the morrow. At last she came; and though but a few days had
elapsed since I had seen her, she was so changed in her appearance, that
I was shocked the moment I beheld her countenance.

"You don't look well, Ellinor," said I: "sit down."

"No matter whether I sit or stand," said she, calmly; "I'm not long for
this world: I won't live long after you are gone, that's one comfort."

Her eyes were fixed and tearless; and there was a dead unnatural
tranquillity in her manner.

"They are making a wonderful great noise nailing up the boxes, and I
seen them cording the trunks as I came through the hall. I asked
them, could I be of any use: but they said I could be of none, and
that's true; for, when I put my hand to the cord, to pull it, I had
no more strength than an infant. It was seven-and-twenty years last
Midsummer-day since I first had you an infant in my arms. I was
strong enough then, and you--was a sweet babby. Had I seen that time
all that would come to pass this day! But that's over now. I have
done a wicked thing; but I'll send for Father Murphy, and get
absolution before I die."

She sighed deeply, then went on speaking more quickly.

"But I can do nothing until you go. What time will you go in the
morning, dear? It's better go early. Is it in the coach you'll go? I see
it in the yard. But I thought you must leave the coach, with all the
rest, to the rightful heir. But my head's not clear about it all, I
believe--and no matter."

Her ideas rambled from one subject to another in an unconnected manner.
I endeavoured in vain to recall her understanding by speaking of her own
immediate interests; of the house that was secured to her for life; and
of the promise that had been made me, that she should never _want for
any thing_, and that she should be treated with all possible kindness.
She seemed to listen to me; but showed that she did not comprehend what
I said, by her answers; and, at every pause I made, she repeated the
same question--

"What time will you go in the morning, dear?"

At last I touched her feelings, and she recovered her intellect, when I
suddenly asked, if she would accompany me to England the next morning.

"Ay, that I will," cried she, "go with you through the wide world."

She burst into tears, and wept bitterly for some time.

"Ah! now I feel right again," said she; "this is what I wanted; but
could not cry this many a day--never since the word came to me that you
was going, and all was lost."

I assured her that I now expected to be happier than I had ever been.

"Oh!" cried she: "and have you never been happy all this time? What a
folly it was for me, then, to do so wicked a thing! and all my comfort
was, the thinking you was happy, dear. And what will become of you now?
And is it on foot you'll go?"

Her thoughts rambled again.

"Whatever way I go, you shall go with me," said I. "You are my mother;
and now that your son has done what he knows to be honest and just, he
will prosper in the world, and will be truly happy; and so may you be
happy, now that you have nothing more to conceal."

She shook her head.

"It's too late," said she, "quite too late. I often told Christy I would
die before you left this place, dear; and so I will, you will see. God
bless you! God bless you! and pray to him to forgive me! None that could
know what I've gone through would ever do the like; no, not for their
own child, was he even such as you, and that would be hard to find. God
bless you, dear; I shall never see you more! The hand of death is upon
me--God for ever bless you, dear!"

She died that night; and I lost in her the only human being who had ever
shown me warm, disinterested affection. Her death delayed for a few days
my departure from Glenthorn Castle. I stayed to see her laid in the
grave. Her funeral was followed by crowds of people: by many, from the
general habit of attending funerals; by many, who wished to pay their
court to me, in showing respect to the memory of my nurse.

When the prayers over the dead were ended, and the grave closed, just
as the crowd were about to disperse, I stood up on a monument
belonging to the Glenthorn family; and the moment it was observed that
I wished to address the multitude, the moving waves were stilled, and
there was a dead silence. Every eye was fixed upon me with eager
expectation. It was the first time in my life that I had ever spoken
before numbers; but as I was certain that I had something to say, and
quite indifferent about the manner, words came without difficulty.
Amazement appeared in every face when I declared myself to be the son
of the poor woman whom we had just interred. And when I pointed to the
real Earl of Glenthorn, and when I declared that I relinquished to him
his hereditary title and lawful property, my auditors looked
alternately at me and at my foster-brother, seeming to think it
impossible that a man, with face and hands so black as Christy's
usually were known to be, could become an earl.

When I concluded my narrative, and paused, the silence still continued;
all seemed held in mute astonishment.

"And now, my good friends," continued I, "let me bid you farewell;
probably you will never see or hear of me more; but, whether he be rich
or poor, or high or low-born, every honest man must wish to leave
behind him a fair character. Therefore, when I am gone, and, as it
were, dead to you, speak of me, not as of an impostor, who long assumed
a name and enjoyed a fortune that was not his own; but remember that I
was bred to believe myself heir to a great estate, and that, after
having lived till the age of seven-and-twenty, in every kind of luxury,
I voluntarily gave up the fortune I enjoyed, the moment I discovered
that it was not justly mine."

"_That_ you did, indeed," interrupted Christy; "and of that I am ready
to bear witness for you in this world and in the next. God bless and
prosper you wherever you go! and sure enough he will, for he cannot do
other than prosper one that deserves it so well. I never should have
known a sentence of the secret," continued he, addressing his
neighbours, "if it had not been for _his_ generosity to tell it me; and
even had I found it out by any _maracle_, where would have been the gain
of that to me? for you know he could, had he been so inclined, have kept
me out of all by the law--ay, baffled me on till my heart was sick, and
till my little substance was wasted, and my bones rotten in the ground;
but, God's blessing be upon him! he's an honest man, and _done_ that
which many a lord in his place would not have done; but a good
conscience is a kingdom in itself, and _that_ he cannot but have,
wherever he goes--and all which grieves me is that he is going away from
us. If he'd be prevailed with by me, he'd stay where he is, and we'd
share and share alike; but he's too proud for that--and no wonder--he
has a right to be proud; for no matter who was his mother, he'll live
and die a gentleman, every inch of him. Any man, you see, may be made a
lord; but a gentleman, a man must make himself. And yourselves can
witness, has not he reigned over us like a gentleman, and a _raal_
gentleman; and shown mercy to the poor, and done justice to all, as well
as to me? and did not he take me by the hand when I was persecuted, and
none else in the wide world to _befrind_ me; and did not he stand up for
me against the tyrants that had the sway then; ay, and did not he put
himself to trouble, day and night, go riding here and there, and
_spaking_ and writing for me? Well, as they say, he loves his ease, and
that's the worse can be said of him; he took all this pains for a poor
man, and had like to have lost his life by it. And now, wherever he is
and whatever, can I help loving and praying for him? or could you? And
since you will go," added he, turning to me with tears in his eyes,
"take with you the blessings of the poor, which, they say, carry a man
straight to heaven, if any thing can."

The surrounding crowd joined with one voice in applauding this speech:
"It is he that has said what we all think," cried they, following me with
acclamations to the castle. When they saw the chaise at the door which
was to carry me away, their acclamations suddenly ceased--"But is he
going?--But can't he stay?--And is he going this minute? troth it's a
pity, and a great pity!"

Again and again these honest people insisted upon taking leave of me,
and I could not force myself away without difficulty. They walked on
beside my carriage, Christy at their head; and in this species of
triumph, melancholy indeed, but grateful to my heart, I quitted
Glenthorn Castle, passed through that park which was no longer mine, and
at the verge of the county shook hands for the last time with these
affectionate and generous people. I then bid my postilion drive on fast;
and I never looked back, never once cast a lingering look at all I left
behind. I felt proud of having executed my purpose, and conscious I had
not the insignificant, inefficient character that had formerly disgraced
me. As to the future, I had not distinctly arranged my plans, nor was my
mind during the remainder of the day sufficiently tranquil for
reflection. I felt like one in a dream, and could scarcely persuade
myself of the reality of the events, that had succeeded each other with
such astonishing rapidity. At night I stopped at an inn where I was not
known; and having no attendants or equipage to command respect from
hostlers, waiters, and inn-keepers, I was made immediately sensible of
the reality, at least of the change in my fortune; but I was not
mortified--I felt only as if I were travelling incognito. And I
contrived to go to bed without a valet-de-chambre, and slept soundly,
for I had earned a sound sleep by exertion both of body and mind.




CHAPTER XIX.


In the morning I awoke with a confused notion that something
extraordinary had happened; but it was a good while before I recollected
myself sufficiently to be perfectly sensible of the absolute and
irrevocable change in my circumstances. An inn may not appear the best
possible place for meditation, especially if the moralizer's bedchamber
be next the yard where carriages roll, and hostlers swear perpetually;
yet so situated, I, this morning as I lay awake in my bed, thought so
abstractedly and attentively, that I heard neither wheels nor hostlers.
I reviewed the whole of my past life; I regretted bitterly my
extravagance, my dissipation, my waste of time; I considered how small a
share of enjoyment my wealth had procured, either for myself or others;
how little advantage I had derived from my education, and from all my
opportunities of acquiring knowledge. It had been in my power to
associate with persons of the highest talents, and of the best
information, in the British dominions; yet I had devoted my youth to
loungers, and gamesters, and epicures, and knew that scarcely a trace of
my existence remained in the minds of those selfish beings, who once
called themselves my friends. I wished that I could live my life over
again; and I felt that, were it in my power, I should live in a manner
very different from that in which I had fooled away existence. In the
midst of my self-reproaches, however, I had some consolation in the idea
that I had never been guilty of any base or dishonourable action. I
recollected, with satisfaction, my behaviour to Lady Glenthorn, when I
discovered her misconduct; I recollected that I had always shown
gratitude to poor Ellinor for her kindness; I recollected with pleasure,
that when trusted with power I had not used it tyrannically. My
exertions in favour of my foster-brother, when he was oppressed, I
remembered with much satisfaction; and the steadiness with which I
behaved, when a conspiracy was formed against my life, gave me
confidence in my own courage; and, after having sacrificed my vast
possessions to a sense of justice, no mortal could doubt my integrity:
so that upon the whole, notwithstanding my past follies, I had a
tolerably good opinion of myself, or rather good hopes for the future. I
was certain, that there was more in me than the world had seen; and I
was ambitious of proving that I had some personal merit, independently
of the adventitious circumstances of rank and fortune. But how was I to
distinguish myself?

Just as I came to this difficult question, the chambermaid interrupted
my reverie, by warning me in a shrill voice, that it was very late, and
that she had called me above two hours before.

"Where's my man! send up my man. Oh! I beg your pardon--nothing at all:
only, my good girl, I should be obliged to you if you could let me have
a little warm water, that I may shave myself."

It was new and rather strange to me to be without attendants; but I
found that, when I was forced to it, I could do things admirably well
for myself, that I had never suspected I could perform without
assistance. After I had travelled two days without servants, how I had
travelled with them was the wonder. I once caught myself saying of
myself, "that careless blockhead has forgotten my nightcap." For some
time I was liable to make odd blunders about my own identity; I was apt
to mistake between my old and my new habits, so that when I spoke in the
tone and imperative mood in which Lord Glenthorn had been accustomed to
speak, people stared at me as if I were mad, and I in my turn was
frequently astonished by their astonishment, and perplexed by their ease
of behaviour in my presence.

Upon my arrival in Dublin, I went to a small lodging which Mr. M'Leod
had recommended to me; it was such as suited my reduced finances; but,
at first view, it was not much to my taste; however, I ate with a good
appetite my very frugal supper, upon a little table, covered with a
little table-cloth, on which I could not wipe my mouth without stooping
low. The mistress of the house, a North-country woman, was so
condescending as to blow my fire, remarking, at the same time, that
coals were _a very scarce article_; she begged to know whether I would
choose a fire in my bed-room, and what quantity of coals she should lay
in; she added many questions about boarding, and small-beer, and tea,
and sugar, and butter, and blankets, and sheets, and washerwomen, which
almost overwhelmed my spirits.

"And must I think of all these things for myself?" said I, in a
lamentable tone, and I suppose with a most deplorable length of face,
for the woman could not refrain from laughing: as she left the room, I
heard her exclaim, "Lord help him, he looks as much astray as if he was
just new from the Isle of Skye."

The cares of life were coming fast upon me, and I was terrified by the
idea of a host of petty evils; I sat ruminating, with my feet upon the
bars of the grate, till past midnight, when my landlady, who seemed to
think it incumbent upon her to supply me with common sense, came to
inform me that there was a good fire burning to waste in the bed-room,
and that I should find myself a great deal better there than sitting
over the cinders. I suffered myself to be removed to the bedchamber, and
again established my feet upon the upper bar of the grate.

"Lack! sir, you'll burn your boots," said my careful landlady; who,
after bidding me good night, put her head back into the room, to beg
I would be sure to rake the fire, and throw up the ashes safe,
before I went to bed. Left to my own meditations, I confess I did
feel rather forlorn. I reflected upon my helplessness in all the
common business of life; and the more I considered that I was
totally unfit for any employment or profession, by which I could
either earn money, or distinguish myself, the deeper became my
despondency. I passed a sleepless night, vainly regretting the time
that never could be recalled.

In the morning, my landlady gave me some letters, which had been
forwarded for me from Glenthorn Castle; the direction to the Earl of
Glenthorn scratched out, and in its place inserted my new address, "_C.
O'Donoghoe, Esq., No. 6, Duke-street, Dublin_." I remember, I held the
letters in my hand, contemplating the direction for some minutes, and at
length reading it aloud repeatedly, to my landlady's infinite
amusement:--she knew nothing of my history, and seemed in doubt whether
to think me extremely silly or mad. One of my letters was from Lord
Y----, an Irish nobleman, with whom I was not personally acquainted, but
for whose amiable character and literary reputation I had always, even
during my days of dissipation, peculiar respect. He wrote to me to make
inquiries respecting the character of a Mr. Lyddell, who had just
proposed himself as tutor to the son of one of his friends. Mr. Lyddell
had formerly been my favourite tutor, the man who had encouraged me in
every species of ignorance and idleness. In my present state of mind I
was not disposed to speak favourably of this gentleman, and I resolved
that I would not be instrumental in placing another young nobleman under
his guidance. I wrote an explicit, indignant, and I will say eloquent
letter upon this occasion; but, when I came to the signature, I felt a
repugnance to signing myself, C. O'Donoghoe; and I recollected, that as
my history could not yet be public, Lord Y---- would be puzzled by this
strange name, and would be unable to comprehend this answer to his
letter. I therefore determined to wait upon his lordship, and to make my
explanations in person: besides my other reasons for determining on this
visit, I had a strong desire to become personally acquainted with a
nobleman of whom I had heard so much. His lordship's porter was not
quite so insolent as some of his brethren; and though I did not come in
a showy equipage, and though I had no laced footmen to enforce my
rights, I gained admission. I passed through a gallery of fine statues,
to a magnificent library, which I admired till the master of the house
appeared, and from that moment he commanded, or rather captivated, my
attention.

Lord Y---- was at this time an elderly gentleman. In his address, there
was a becoming mixture of ease and dignity; he was not what the French
call _maniéré_; his politeness was not of any particular school, but
founded on those general principles of good taste, good sense, and
good-nature, which must succeed in all times, places, and seasons. His
desire to please evidently arose not from vanity but benevolence. In his
conversation, there was neither the pedantry of a recluse, nor the
coxcombry of a man of the world: his knowledge was select; his wit
without effort, the play of a cultivated imagination: the happiness of
his expressions did not seem the result of care; and his allusions were
at once so apposite and elegant, as to charm both the learned and the
unlearned: all he said was sufficiently clear and just to strike every
person of plain sense and natural feeling, while to the man of
literature it had often a further power to please, by its less obvious
meaning. Lord Y----'s superiority never depressed those with whom he
conversed; on the contrary, they felt themselves raised by the magic of
politeness to his level; instead of being compelled to pay tribute, they
seemed invited to share his intellectual dominion, and to enjoy with him
the delightful pre-eminence of genius and virtue.

I shall be forgiven for pausing in my own insignificant story, to dwell
on the noble character of a departed friend. That he permitted me to
call him my friend, I think the greatest honour of my life. But let me,
if I can, go on regularly with my narrative.

Lord Y---- took it for granted, during our first half-hour's
conversation, that he was speaking to the Earl of Glenthorn: he thanked
me with much warmth for putting him on his guard against the character
of Mr. Lyddell: and his lordship was also pleased to thank me for
making him acquainted, as he said, with my own character; for
convincing him how ill it had been appreciated by those who imagined
that wealth and title were the only distinctions which the Earl of
Glenthorn might claim. This compliment went nearer to my heart than
Lord Y---- could guess.

"My character," said I, "since your lordship encourages me to speak of
myself with freedom, my character has, I hope, been much changed and
improved by circumstances; and perhaps those which might at present be
deemed the most unfortunate, may ultimately prove of the greatest
advantage, by urging me to exertion.--Your lordship is not aware of what
I allude to; a late event in my singular history," continued I, taking
up the newspapers which lay on his library table--"my singular history
has not yet, I fancy, got into the public newspapers. Perhaps you will
hear it most favourably from myself."

Lord Y---- was politely, benevolently attentive, whilst I related to him
the sudden and singular change in my fortune: when I gave an account of
the manner in which I had conducted myself after the discovery of my
birth, tears of generous feeling filled his eyes; he laid his hand upon
mine when I paused--

"Whatever you have lost," said he, "you have gained a friend. Do not be
surprised," continued he, "by this sudden declaration. Before I saw you
this morning, your real character was better known to me than you
imagine. I learnt it from a particular friend of mine, of whose judgment
and abilities I have the highest opinion, Mr. Cecil Devereux; I saw him
just after his marriage; and the very evening before they sailed, I
remember, when Lady Geraldine and he were talking of the regret they
felt in leaving Ireland, among the friends whom they lamented that they
should not see again, perhaps for years, you were mentioned with
peculiar esteem and affection. They called you their generous
benefactor, and fully explained to me the claim you had to this title--a
title which never can he lost. But Mr. Devereux was anxious to convince
me that he was not influenced by the partiality of gratitude in his
opinion of his benefactor's talents. He repeated an assertion, that was
supported with much energy by the charming Lady Geraldine, that Lord
Glenthorn had _abilities to be any thing Tie pleased_; and the high
terms in which they spoke of his talents, and the strong proofs they
adduced of the generosity of his character, excited in my mind a warm
desire to cultivate his acquaintance; a desire which has been
considerably increased within this last hour. May I hope that the Irish
rapidity with which I have passed from acquaintance to friendship may
not shock English habits of reserve; and may not induce you to doubt the
sincerity of the man, who has ventured with so little hesitation or
ceremony to declare himself your friend?"

I was so much moved by this unexpected kindness, that, though I felt how
much more was requisite, I could answer only with a bow; and I was glad
to make my retreat as soon as possible. The very next day, his lordship
returned my visit, to my landlady's irrecoverable astonishment; and I
had increasing reason to regard him with admiration and affection. He
convinced me, that I had interested him in my concerns, and told me, I
must forgive him if he spoke to me with the freedom of a friend: thus I
was encouraged to consult him respecting my future plans. Plans, indeed,
I had none regularly formed; but Lord Y----, by his judicious
suggestions, settled and directed my ideas without overpowering me by
the formality of advice. My ambition was excited to deserve his
friendship, and to accomplish his predictions. The profession of the law
was that to which he advised me to turn my thoughts: he predicted, that,
if for five years I would persevere in application to the necessary
preparatory studies, I should afterwards distinguish myself at the bar,
more than I had ever been distinguished by the title of Earl of
Glenthorn. Five years of hard labour! the idea alarmed, but did not
utterly appal my imagination; and to prevent my dwelling upon it too
long at the first, Lord Y---- suddenly changed the conversation; and, in
a playful tone, said, "Before you immerse yourself in your studies, I
must, however, claim some of your time. You must permit me to carry you
home with me to-day, to introduce you to two ladies of my acquaintance:
the one prudent and old--if a lady can ever be old; the other, young,
and beautiful, and graceful, and witty, and wise, and reasonable. One of
these ladies is much prepossessed in your favour, the other strongly
prejudiced against you--for the best of all possible reasons, because
she does not know you."

I accepted Lord Y----'s invitation; not a little curious to know whether
it was the old and prudent, or the young, beautiful, graceful, witty,
wise, and reasonable lady, who was much prepossessed in my favour.
Notwithstanding my usual indifference to the whole race of _very
agreeable young ladies_, I remember trying to form a picture in my
imagination of this all-accomplished female.




CHAPTER XX.


Upon my arrival at Y---- house, I found two ladies in the drawing-room,
in earnest conversation with Lady Y----. In their external appearance
they were nearly what my friend had described; except that the beauty of
the youngest infinitely surpassed my expectations. The elegance of her
form, and the charming expression of her countenance, struck me with a
sort of delightful surprise, that was quickly succeeded by a most
painful sensation.

"Lady Y----, give me leave to introduce to you Mr. O'Donoghoe."

Shocked by the sound of my own name, I was ready to recoil abashed. The
elderly lady turned her eyes upon me for an instant, with that
indifference with which we look at an uninteresting stranger. The young
lady seemed to pity my confusion; for though so well and so long used to
varieties of the highest company, when placed in a situation that was
new to me, I was unaccountably disconcerted. Ah! thought I, how
differently should I be received were I still Earl of Glenthorn!

I was rather angry with Lord Y----, for not introducing me, as he had
promised, to this fair lady; and yet the repetition of my name would
have increased my vexation. In short, I was unjust, and felt an
impatience and irritability quite unusual to my temper. Lady Y----
addressed some conversation to me, in an obliging manner, and I did my
best to support my part till she left me: but my attention was soon
distracted, by a conversation that commenced at another part of the
room, between her and the elderly lady.

"My dear Lady Y----, have you heard the extraordinary news? the most
incredible thing that ever was heard! For my part, I cannot believe
it yet, though we have the intelligence from the best authority. Lord
Glenthorn, that is to say, the person we always called Lord
Glenthorn, turns out to be the son of the Lord knows who--they don't
mention the name."

At this speech I was ready to sink into the earth. Lord Y---- took my
arm, and led me into another room. "I have some cameos," said he, "which
are thought curious; would you like to look at them?"

"Can you conceive it?" continued the elderly lady, whose voice I still
heard, as the folding-doors of the room were open: "Changed at nurse!
One hears of such things in novels, but, in real life, I absolutely
cannot believe it. Yet here, in this letter from Lady Ormsby, are all
the particulars: and a blacksmith is found to be Earl of Glenthorn, and
takes possession of Glenthorn castle, and all the estates. And the man
is married, to some vulgarian of course: and he has a son, and may have
half a hundred, you know; so there is an end of our hopes; and there is
an end too of all my fine schemes for Cecilia."

I felt myself change colour again. "I believe," said I to Lord Y----, "I
ought not to hear this. If your lordship will give me leave, I will shut
the door."

"No, no," said he, smiling, and stopping me; "you ought to hear it, for
it will do you a great deal of good. You know I have undertaken to be
your guide, philosopher, and friend; so you must let me have my own way:
and if it should so happen, hear yourself abused patiently.--Is not this
a fine bust of Socrates?"

Some part of the conversation in the next room I missed, whilst his
lordship spoke. The next words I heard were--

"But my dear Lady Y----, look at Cecilia.--Would not any other girl be
cast down and miserable in Cecilia's place? yet see, see how provokingly
happy and well she looks."

"Yes," replied Lady Y----, "I never saw her appear better: but we are
not to judge of her by what any other young lady would be in her place,
for I know of none at all comparable to Miss Delamere."

"Miss Delamere!" said I to Lord Y----. "Is this the Miss Delamere who is
heiress at law to----"

"The Glenthorn estate. Yes--do not let the head of Socrates fall from
your hands," said his lordship, smiling.

I again lost something that was said in the next room; but I heard the
old lady going on with--

"I only say, my dear, that if the man had been really what he was said
to be, you could not have done better."

"Dearest mother, you cannot be serious," replied the sweetest voice I
ever heard. "I am sure that you never were in earnest upon this subject:
you could not wish me to be united to such a man as Lord Glenthorn was
said to be."

"Why? what was he said to be, my dear?--a little dissipated, a little
extravagant only: and if he had a fortune to support it, child, what
matter?" pursued the mother: "all young men are extravagant
now-a-days--you must take the world as it goes."

"The lady who married Lord Glenthorn, I suppose, acted upon that
principle; and you see what was the consequence."

"Oh, my dear, as to her ladyship, it ran in the blood: let her have
married whom she would, she would have done the same: and I am told Lord
Glenthorn made an incomparably good husband. A cousin of Lady
Glenthorn's assured me that she was present one day, when her ladyship
expressed a wish for a gold chain to wear round her neck, or braid her
hair, I forget for what; but that very hour Lord Glenthorn bespoke for
her a hundred yards of gold chain, at ten guineas a yard. Another time
she longed for an Indian shawl, and his lordship presented her next day
with three dozen real India shawls. There's a husband for you, Cecilia!"

"Not for me, mamma," said Cecilia, laughing.

"Ah, you are a strange romantic girl, and never will be married after
all, I fear."

"Never to a fool, I hope," said Cecilia.

"Miss Delamere will, however, allow," said Lady Y----, "that a man
may have his follies, without being a fool, or wholly unworthy of
her esteem; otherwise, what a large portion of mankind she would
deprive of hope!"

"As to Lord Glenthorn, he was no fool, I promise you," continued the
mother: "has not he been living prudently enough these three years? We
have not heard of late of any of his _extraordinary landaus_,"

"But I have been told," said Cecilia, "that he is quite uninformed,
without any taste for literature, and absolutely incapable of
exertion--a victim to ennui. How miserable a woman must be with such
a husband!"

"But," said Lady Y----, "what could be expected from a young nobleman
bred up as Lord Glenthorn was?"

"Nothing," said Cecilia; "and that is the very reason I never wished
to see him."

"Perhaps Miss Delamere's opinion might be changed if she had known him,"
said Lady Y----,

"Ay, for he is a very handsome man, I have heard," said the mother.
"Lady Jocunda Lawler told me so, in one of her letters; and Lady Jocunda
was very near being married to him herself, I can tell you, for he
admired her prodigiously."

"A certain proof that he never would have admired me," said Cecilia;
"for two women, so opposite in every respect, no man could have loved."

"Lord bless you, child! how little you know of the matter! After all, I
dare say, if you had been acquainted with him, you might have been in
love yourself with Lord Glenthorn."

"Possibly," said Cecilia, "if I had found him the reverse of what he is
reported to be."

Company came in at this instant. Lord Y---- was called to receive them,
and I followed; glad, at this instant, that I was not Lord Glenthorn. At
dinner the conversation turned upon general subjects; and Lord Y----,
with polite and friendly attention, _drew me out_, without seeming to do
so, in the kindest manner possible.

I had the pleasure to perceive that Cecilia Delamere did not find me a
fool. I never, even in the presence of Lady Geraldine, exerted myself so
much to avoid this disgrace.

After all the company, except Mrs. and Miss Delamere, were gone, Lord
Y---- called me aside.

"Will you pardon," said he, "the means I have taken to convince you how
much superior you are to the opinion that has been commonly formed of
Lord Glenthorn? Will you forgive me for convincing you that when a man
has sufficient strength of mind to rely upon himself, and sufficient
energy to exert his abilities, he becomes independent of common report
and vulgar opinion? He secures the suffrages of the best judges; and
they, in time, lead all the rest of the world. Will you permit me now to
introduce you to your prudent friend and your fair enemy? Mrs.
Delamere--Miss Delamere--give me leave to introduce to you the late Earl
of Glenthorn."

Of the astonishment in the opening eyes of Mrs. Delamere I have some
faint recollection. I can never forget the crimson blush that
instantaneously spread over the celestial countenance of Cecilia.
She was perfectly silent; but her mother went on talking with
increased rapidity.

"Good Heavens! the late Lord Glenthorn! Why, I was talking--but he was
not in the room." The ladies exchanged looks, which seemed to say, "I
hope he did not hear all we said of him."

"My dear Lord Y----, why did not you tell us this before? Suppose we had
spoken of his lordship, you would have been answerable for all the
consequences."

"Certainly," said Lord Y----.

"But, seriously," said the old lady, "have I the pleasure to speak to
Lord Glenthorn, or have I not? I believe I began, unluckily, to talk of
a strange story I had heard; but perhaps all this is a mistake, and my
country correspondent may have been amusing herself at the expense of my
credulity. I assure you I was not imposed upon; I never believed half
the story."

"You may believe the whole of it, madam," said I; "the story is
perfectly true."

"Oh! my good sir, how sorry I am to hear you say it is all true! And the
blacksmith is really Earl of Glenthorn, and has taken possession of the
castle, and is married, and has a son! Lord bless me, how unfortunate!
Well, I can only say, sir, I wish, with all my heart, you were Earl of
Glenthorn still."

After hearing from Lord Y---- the circumstances of what he was pleased
to call my generous conduct, Mrs. Delamere observed, that I had acted
very generously, to be sure, but that few in my place would have thought
themselves bound to give up possession of an estate, which I had so long
been taught to believe was my own. To have and to hold, she observed,
always went together in law; and she could not help thinking I had done
very injudiciously and imprudently not to let the law decide for me.

I was consoled for Mrs. Delamere's reprehensions by her daughter's
approving countenance. After this visit, Lord Y---- gave me a general
invitation to his house, where I frequently saw Miss Delamere, and
frequently compared her with my recollection of Lady Geraldine ------.
Cecilia Delamere was not so entertaining, but she was more interesting
than Lady Geraldine: the flashes of her ladyship's wit, though always
striking, were sometimes dangerous; Cecilia's wit, though equally
brilliant, shone with a more pleasing and inoffensive light. With as
much generosity as Lady Geraldine could show in great affairs, she had
more forbearance and delicacy of attention on every-day occasions. Lady
Geraldine had much pride, and it often gave offence; Cecilia, perhaps,
had more pride, but it never appeared, except upon the defensive:
without having less candour, she had less occasion for it than Lady
Geraldine seemed to have; and Cecilia's temper had more softness and
equability. Perhaps Cecilia was not so fascinating, but she was more
attractive. One had the envied art of appearing to advantage in
public--the other, the more desirable power of being happy in private. I
admired Lady Geraldine long before I loved her; I loved Cecilia long
before I admired her.

Whilst I possibly could, I called what I felt for Miss Delamere only
esteem; but when I found it impossible to conceal from myself that I
loved, I resolved to avoid this charming woman. How happy, thought I,
would the fortune I once possessed now make me! but in my present
circumstances what have I to hope? Surely my friend Lord Y---- has not
shown his usual prudence in exposing me to such a temptation; but it is
to be supposed, he thinks that the impossibility of my obtaining Miss
Delamere will prevent my thinking of her, or perhaps he depends on the
inertness and apathy of my temper. Unfortunately for me, my sensibility
has increased since I have become poor; for many years, when I was
rich, and could have married easily, I never wished to marry, and now
that I have not enough to support a wife, I immediately fall
desperately in love.

Again and again I pondered upon my circumstances: three hundred a-year
was the amount of all my worldly possessions; and Miss Delamere was not
rich, and she had been bred expensively; for it had never been absent
from her mother's mind, that Cecilia would be heiress to the immense
Glenthorn estate. The present possessor was, however, an excellent life,
and he had a son stout and healthy, so all these hopes of Mrs.
Delamere's were at an end; and as there was little chance, as she said
(laughing), of persuading her daughter to marry Johnny, the young lord
and heir apparent, it was now necessary to turn her views elsewhere, and
to form for Cecilia some suitable alliance. Rank and large fortune were,
in Mrs. Delamere's opinion, indispensable to happiness. Cecilia's ideas
were far more moderate; but, though perfectly disinterested and
generous, she was not so romantic, or so silly, as to think of marrying
any man without the probability of his being able to support her in the
society of her equals: nor, even if I could have thought it possible to
prevail upon Miss Delamere to make an unbecoming and imprudent choice,
would I have taken advantage of the confidence reposed in me by Lord
Y----, to destroy the happiness of a young friend, for whom he evidently
had a great regard. I resolved to see her no more--and for some weeks I
kept my resolution; I refrained from going to Y---- house. I deem this
the most virtuous action of my life; it certainly was the most painful
sacrifice I ever made to a sense of duty. At last, Lord Y---- came to me
one morning, and after reproaching me, in a friendly manner, for having
so long absented myself from his house, declared that he would not be
satisfied with any of those common excuses, which might content a mere
acquaintance; that his sincere anxiety for my welfare gave him a right
to expect from me the frankness of a friend. It was a relief to my mind
to be encouraged in this manner. I confessed with entire openness my
real motive: Lord Y---- heard me without surprise.

"It is gratifying to me," said his lordship, "to be convinced that I was
not mistaken in my judgment, either of your taste, or your integrity;
permit me to assure you, that I foresaw exactly how you would feel, and
precisely how you would act. There are certain moral omens, which old
experience never fails to interpret rightly, and from which unerring
predictions of the future conduct, and consequently of the future fate
of individuals, may be formed. I hold that we are the artificers of our
own fortune. If there be any whom the gods wish to destroy, these are
first deprived of understanding; whom the gods wish to favour, they
first endow with integrity, inspire with understanding, and animate with
activity. Have I not seen integrity in you, and shall I not see
activity? Yes; that supineness of temper or habit with which you
reproach yourself has arisen, believe me, only from want of motive; but
you have now the most powerful of motives, and in proportion to your
exertions will be your success. In our country, you know, the highest
offices of the state are open to talents and perseverance; a man of
abilities and application cannot fail to secure independence, and obtain
distinction. Time and industry are necessary to prepare you for the
profession, to which you will hereafter be an honour, and you will
courageously submit.

    --'Time and industry, the mighty two,
    Which bring our wishes nearer to our view.'

As to the probability that your present wishes may be crowned with
success, I can judge only from my general knowledge of the views and
disposition of the lady whom you admire. I know that her views with
respect to fortune are moderate; and that her disposition and excellent
understanding will, in the choice of a husband, direct her preference to
the essential good qualities, and not to the accidental advantages, of
the candidates for her favour. As to the mother's influence, that will
necessarily yield to the daughter's superior judgment. Cecilia possesses
over her mother that witchcraft of gentle manners, which in the female
sex is always irresistible, even over violent tempers. Prudential
considerations have a just, though not exclusive, claim to Miss
Delamere's attention. But her relations, I fancy, could find means of
providing against any pecuniary embarrassments, if she should think
proper to unite herself to a man who can be content, as she would be,
with a competence, and who should _have proved himself able, by his own
exertions, to maintain his wife in independence_. On this last condition
I must dwell with emphasis, because it is indispensable; and I am
convinced that without it Miss Delamere's consent, even after she is of
age, and at liberty to judge for herself, could never be obtained. You
perceive, then, how much depends upon your own exertions; and this is
the best hope, and the best motive, that I can give to a strong and
generous mind. Farewell--Persevere and prosper."

Such was the general purport of what Lord Y---- said to me; indeed, I
believe that I have repeated his very words, for they made a great and
ineffaceable impression upon my mind. From this day I date the
commencement of a new existence. Fired with ambition,--I hope generous
ambition,--to distinguish myself among men, and to win the favour of the
most amiable and the most lovely of women, all the faculties of my soul
were awakened: I became active, permanently active. The enchantment of
indolence was dissolved, and the demon of ennui was cast out for ever.




CHAPTER XXI.


If, among those who maybe tempted to peruse my history, there should be
any mere novel readers, let me advise them to throw the book aside at
the commencement of this chapter; for I have no more wonderful incidents
to relate, no more changes at nurse, no more sudden turns of fortune. I
am now become a plodding man of business, poring over law-books from
morning till night, and leading a most monotonous life: yet occupation,
and hope, and the constant sense of approaching nearer to my object,
rendered this mode of existence, dull as it may seem, infinitely more
agreeable than many of my apparently prosperous days, when I had more
money, and more time, than I knew how to enjoy. I resolutely persevered
in my studies.

About a month after I came to town, the doors of my lodging were
blockaded by half a dozen cars, loaded with huge packing-cases, on which
I saw, in the hand-writing which I remembered often to have seen in my
blacksmith's bills, a direction to _Christopher O'Donoghoe,
Esquire--this side upwards: to be kept dry._

One of the carmen fumbled in what he called his pocket, and at last
produced a very dirty note.


"My dear and honourable foster-brother, larning from Mr. M'Leod that
you are thinking of _studdeing_, I send you inclosed by the bearer,
who is to get nothing for the _carrige_, all the bookes from the big
booke-room at the castle, which I hope, being of not as much use as I
could wish to me, your honour will not scorn to accept, with the true
veneration of

"Your ever-loving foster-brother, and grateful humble servant,
_to command_.

"P.S. No name needful, for you will not be astray about the hand."


This good-natured fellow's present was highly valuable and useful to me.

Among my pleasures at this studious period of my life, when I had few
events to break the uniform tenor of my days, I must mention letters
which I frequently received from Mr. Devereux and Lady Geraldine, who
still continued in India. Mr. Devereux was acquainted with almost all
the men of eminence at the Irish bar; men who are not mere lawyers, but
persons of literature, of agreeable manners, and gentlemanlike habits.
Mr. Desvereux wrote to his friends so warmly in my favour, that, instead
of finding myself a stranger in Dublin, my only difficulty was how to
avoid the numerous invitations which tempted me from my studies.

Those gentlemen of the bar who were intimate with Mr. Devereux honoured
me with particular attention, and their society was peculiarly useful,
as well as agreeable, to me: they directed my industry to the best and
shortest means of preparing myself for their profession; they put into
my hands the best books; told me all that experience had taught them of
the art of distinguishing, in the mass of law-precedents, the useful
from the useless: instructed me in the methods of indexing and
common-placing; and gave me all those advantages, which solitary
students so often want, and the want of which so often makes the study
of the law appear an endless maze without a plan. When I found myself
surrounded with books, and reading assiduously day and night, I could
scarcely believe in my own identity; I could scarcely imagine that I was
the same person, who, but a few months before this time, lolled upon a
sofa half the day, and found it an intolerable labour to read or think
for half an hour together. Such is the power of motive! During the whole
time I pursued my studies, and kept my terms, in Ireland, the only
relaxation I allowed myself was in the society at Lord Y----'s house in
Dublin, and, during my vacations, in excursions which I made with his
lordship to different parts of the country. Lord Y---- had two
country-seats in the most beautiful parts of Ireland. How differently
the face of nature appeared to me now! with what different sensations I
beheld the same objects!

    "No brighter colours paint th' enamell'd fields,
    No sweeter fragrance now the garden yields;
    Whence then this strange increase of joy?
    Is it to love these new delights I owe?"

It was not to love that I owed these new delights, for Cecilia was not
there; but my powers of observation were awakened, and the confinement
and labour to which I had lately submitted gave value to the pleasures
of rest and liberty, and to the freshness of country air, and the
beautiful scenes of nature. So true it is, that all our pleasures must
be earned, before they can be enjoyed. When I saw on Lord Y----'s
estates, and on those of several other gentlemen, which he occasionally
took me to visit, the neat cottages, the well-cultivated farms, the air
of comfort, industry, and prosperity, diffused through the lower classes
of the people, I was convinced that much may he done by the judicious
care and assistance of landlords for their tenantry. I saw this with
mixed sensations of pleasure and of pain--of pain, for I reflected how
little I had accomplished, and how ill I had done even that little,
whilst the means of doing good to numbers had been in my power. For the
very trifling services I did to some of my poor tenants, I am sure I had
abundant gratitude; and I was astonished and touched by instances of
this shown to me after I had lost my fortune, and when I scarcely had
myself any remembrance of the people who came to thank me. Trivial as it
is, I cannot forbear to record one of the many instances of gratitude I
met with from a poor Irishman.

Whilst I was in Dublin, as I was paying a morning visit to Lord Y----,
sitting with him in his library, we heard some disturbance in the inner
court; and looking out of the window, we saw a countryman with a basket
on his arm, struggling with the porter and two footmen.

"He is here; I know to a certainty he is here, and I _shall_ see him,
say what you plase now!"

"I tell you my lord is not at home," said the porter.

"What's the matter?" said Lord Y----, opening the window.

"See, there's my lord himself at the window: are not you ashamed of
yourself now?" said the footman.

"And why would I be ashamed that am telling no lies, and hindering no
one?" said the countryman, looking up to us with so sudden a motion that
his hat fell of. I knew his face, but could not recollect his name.

"Oh! there he is, his own honour; I've found him, and _axe_ pardon for
my boldness; but it's because I've been all day yesterday, and this day,
running through Dublin after _yees_; and when certified by the lady of
the lodgings you was in it here, I could not lave town without my
errand, which is no more than a cheese from my wife of her own making,
to be given to your honour's own hands, and she would not see me if I
did not do it."

"Let him come up," said Lord Y----. "This," continued his lordship,
turning to me, "reminds me of Henry the Fourth, and the Gascon peasant
with his _fromages de boeuf_."

"But our countryman brings his offering to an abdicated monarch," said
I.

The poor fellow presented his wife's cheese to me with as good a grace
as any courtier could have made his offering. Unembarrassed, his
manners and his words gave the natural and easy expression of a
grateful heart. He assured me that he and his wife were the happiest
couple in all Ireland; and he hoped I would one day be as happy myself
in a wife as I _desarved_, who had made others so; and there were many
on the estate remembered as well as he did the good I did to the poor
during _my reign_.

Then stepping up closer to me, he said, in a lower voice, "I'm Jimmy
Riley, that married _ould_ Noonan's daughter; and now that it is all
over I may tell you a bit of a _secret_, which made me so eager to get
to the speech of your honour, that I might tell it to your own ear
alone--no offence to this gentleman, before whom I'd as soon say it as
yourself, _becaase_ I see he is all as one as another yourself. Then the
thing is--does your honour remember the boy with the cord round his
body, looking for the birds' eggs in the rock, and the 'nonymous bit of
a letter that you got? 'Twas I wrote it, and the _gossoon_ that threw it
to your honour was a cousin of my own that I sent, that nobody, nor
yourself even, might not know him: and the way I got the information I
never can tell till I die, and then only to the priest, _becaase_ I
swore I would not never. But don't go for to think it was by being a
_rubble_ any way; no man can, I thank my God, charge me with
indifferency. So rejoiced to see you the same, I wish you a good morrow,
and long life, and a happy death--when it comes."

About this time I frequently used to receive presents to a considerable
amount, and of things which were most useful to me, but always without
any indication by which I could discover to whom I was indebted for
them: at last, by means of my Scotch landlady, I traced them to Mr.
M'Leod. His kindness was so earnest and peremptory, that it would admit
neither thanks nor refusals; and I submitted to be obliged to a man for
whom I felt such high esteem. I looked upon it as not the least of his
proofs of regard, that he gave me what I knew he valued more than any
thing else--his time. Whenever he came to Dublin, though he was always
hurried by business, so that he had scarcely leisure to eat or sleep, he
used constantly to come to see me in my obscure lodgings; and when in
the country, though he hated all letter-writing, except letters of
business, yet he regularly informed me of every thing that could be
interesting to me. Glenthorn Castle he described as a scene of riotous
living, and of the most wasteful vulgar extravagance. My poor
foster-brother, the best-natured and most generous fellow in the world,
had not sufficient prudence or strength of mind to conduct his own
family; his wife filled the castle with tribes of her vagabond
relations; she chose to be descended from one of the kings of Ireland;
and whoever would acknowledge her high descent, and whoever would claim
relationship with her, were sure to have their claims allowed, and were
welcome to live in all the barbaric magnificence of Glenthorn Castle.
Every instance that she could hear of the former Lady Glenthorn's
extravagance or of mine--and, alas! there were many upon record, she
determined to exceed. Her diamonds, and her pearls, and her finery,
surpassed every thing but the extravagance of some of the Russian
favourites of fortune. Decked out in the most absurd manner, this
descendant of kings, as Mr. M'Leod assured me, often indulged in the
pleasures of the banquet, till, no longer able to support the regal
diadem, she was carried by some of the meanest of her subjects to her
bed. The thefts committed during these interregnums were amazing in
their amount, and the jewels of the crown were to be replaced as fast as
they were stolen. Poor Christy all this time was considered as a
mean-spirited _cratur_, who had no notion of living like a prince; and
whilst his wife and her relations were revelling in this unheard-of
manner, he was scarcely considered as the master of the house: he lived
by the fireside disregarded in winter, and in summer he spent his time
chiefly in walking up and down his garden, and picking fruit. He once
made an attempt to amuse himself by mending the lock of his own room
door; but he was detected in the fact, and exposed to such loud ridicule
by his lady's favourites, that he desisted, and sighing said to Mr.
M'Leod--"And isn't it now a great hardship upon a man like me to have
nothing to do, or not to be let do any thing? If it had not been for my
son Johnny's sake, I never would have quit the forge; and now all will
be spent in _coshering_, and Johnny, at the last, will never be a penny
the better, but the worse for my consinting to be lorded; and what
grieves me more than all the rest, _she_ is such _a negre_,[85] that I
haven't a guinea I can call my own to send, as I'd always laid out to do
at odd times, such little tokens of my love and duty, as would be
becoming to my dear foster-brother there in Dublin. And now, you tell
me, he is going away too, beyond sea to England, to finish making a
lawyer of himself in London; and what friends will he find there,
without money in his pocket? and I had been thinking this while past,
ever since you gave me notice of his being to quit Ireland, that I would
go up to Dublin myself to see him, and wish him a good journey kindly
before he would go; and I had a little _compliment_ here, in a private
drawer, that I had collected _unknownst_ to my wife; but here last night
she _lit_ upon it, and now that her hand has closed upon it, not a
guinea of it shall I ever see more, nor a farthing the better of it will
my dear foster-brother ever be, for it or for me; and this is what
grieves me more than all, and goes to the quick of my heart."

When Mr. M'Leod repeated to me these lamentations of poor Christy, I
immediately wrote to set his heart at ease, as much as I could, by the
assurance that I was in no distress for money; and that my three hundred
a year would support me in perfect comfort and independence, while "I
was making a lawyer of myself in London." I farther assured my good
foster-brother, that I was so well convinced of his affectionate and
generous disposition towards me, that it would be quite unnecessary ever
to send me tokens of his regard. I added a few words of advice about his
wife and his affairs, which, like most words of advice, were, as I
afterwards found, absolutely thrown away.

Though I had taken care to live with so much economy, that I was not in
any danger of being in pecuniary embarrassments, yet I felt much
distress of another kind in leaving Ireland. I left Miss Delamere
surrounded with admirers; her mother using her utmost art and parental
influence to induce Cecilia to decide in favour of one of these
gentlemen, who was a person of rank and of considerable fortune. I had
seen all this going on, and was bound in honour the whole time to remain
passive, not to express my own ardent feelings, not to make the
slightest attempt to win the affections of the woman who was the object
of all my labours, of all my exertions. The last evening that I saw her
at Lord Y----'s, just before I sailed for England, I suffered more than
I thought it was in my nature to feel, especially at the moment when I
went up to make my bow, and take leave of her with all the cold ceremony
of a common acquaintance. At parting, however, in the presence of her
mother and of Lord Y----, Cecilia, with her sweet smile, and, I think,
with a slight blush, said a few words, upon which I lived for months
afterwards.

"I sincerely wish you, sir, the success your perseverance so well
deserves."

The recollection of these words was often my solace in my lonely
chambers in the Temple; and often, after a day's hard study, the
repeating them to myself operated as a charm that dissipated all
fatigue, and revived at once my exhausted spirits. To be sure, there
were moments when my fire was out, and my candle sinking in the socket,
and my mind over-wearied saw things in the most gloomy point of view;
and at these times I used to give an unfavourable interpretation to
Cecilia's words, and I fancied that they were designed to prevent my
entertaining fallacious hopes, and to warn me that she must yield to her
mother's authority, or perhaps to her own inclinations, in favour of
some of her richer lovers. This idea would have sunk me into utter
despondency, and I should have lost, with my motive, all power of
exertion, had not I opposed to this apprehension the remembrance of Lord
Y----'s countenance, at the moment Cecilia was speaking to me. I then
felt assured, that his lordship, at least, understood the words in a
favourable sense, else he would have suffered for me, and would not
certainly have allowed me to go away with false hopes. Re-animated by
this consideration, I persevered--for it was by perseverance alone that
I could have any chance of success.

It was fortunate for me, that, stimulated by a great motive, I thus
devoted my whole time and thoughts to my studies, otherwise I must, on
returning to London, have felt the total neglect and desertion of all my
former associates in the fashionable world; of all the vast number of
acquaintance who used to lounge away their hours in my company, and
partake of the luxuries of my table and the festivities of my house.
Some, whom I accidentally met in the street, just at my re-appearance in
town, thought proper, indeed, to know me again at first, that they might
gratify their curiosity about the paragraphs which they had seen in the
papers, and the reports which they had heard of my extraordinary change
of fortune; but no sooner had they satisfied themselves that all they
had heard was true, than their interest concerning me ceased. When they
found, that, instead of being Earl of Glenthorn, and the possessor of a
large estate, I was now reduced to three hundred a year, lodging in
small chambers in the Temple, and studying the law, they never more
thought me worthy of their notice. They affected, according to their
different humours, either to pity me for my misfortunes, or to blame me
for my folly in giving up my estate; but they unanimously expressed
astonishment at the idea of my becoming a member of any active
profession. They declared that it was impossible that I could ever
endure the labour of the law, or succeed in such an arduous career.
Their prophecies intimidated me not; I was conscious that these people
did not in the least know me; and I hoped and believed that I had powers
and a character which they were incapable of estimating: their contempt
rather excited than depressed my mind, and their pity I returned with
more sincerity than it was given. I had lived their life, knew
thoroughly what were its pleasures and its pains; I could compare the
ennui I felt when I was a Bond-street lounger with the self-complacency
I enjoyed now that I was occupied in a laborious but interesting and
honourable pursuit. I confess, I had sometimes, however, the weakness to
think the worse of human nature, for what I called the desertion and
ingratitude of these my former companions and flatterers; and I could
not avoid comparing the neglect and solitude in which I lived in London,
where I had lavished my fortune, with the kindness and hospitalities I
had received in Dublin, where I lived only when I had no fortune to
spend. After a little time, however, I became more reasonable and just;
for I considered that it was my former dissipated mode of life, and
imprudent choice of associates, which I should blame for the
mortifications I now suffered from the desertion of companions, who
were, in fact, incapable of being friends. In London I had lived with
the most worthless, in Dublin with the best company; and in each place I
had been treated as, in fact, I deserved. But, leaving the history of my
feelings, I must proceed with my narrative.

One night, after I had dined with an Irish gentleman, a friend of Lord
Y----'s, at the west end of the town, as I was returning late to my
lodgings, I was stopped for some time by a crowd of carriages, in one of
the fashionable streets. I found that there was a masquerade at the
house of a lady, with whom I had been intimately acquainted. The
clamours of the mob, eager to see the dresses of those who were
alighting from their carriages, the gaudy and fantastic figures which I
beheld by the light of the flambeaux, the noise and the bustle, put me
in mind of various similar nights of my past life, and it seemed to me
like a dream, or reminiscence of some former state of existence. I
passed on as soon as the crowd would permit, and took my way down a
narrow street, by which I hoped to get, by a shorter way than usual, to
my quiet lodgings. The rattling of the carriages, the oaths of the
footmen, and the shouts of the mob still sounded in my ears; and the
masquerade figures had scarcely faded from my sight, when I saw, coming
slowly out of a miserable entry, by the light of a few wretched candles
and lanterns, a funeral. The contrast struck me: I stood still to make
way for the coffin; and I heard one say to another, "What matter how
she's buried! I tell you, be at as little expense as possible, for he'll
never pay a farthing." I had a confused recollection of having heard the
voice before: as one of the bearers lifted his lantern, I saw the face
of the woman who spoke, and had a notion of having seen her before. I
asked whose funeral it was; and I was answered, "It is one Mrs.
Crawley's--Lady Glenthorn that was," added the woman. I heard no more: I
was so much shocked, that I believe I should have fallen in the street,
if I had not been immediately supported by somebody near me. When I
recovered my recollection, I saw the funeral had moved on some paces,
and the person who supported me, I now found, was a clergyman. In a mild
voice, he told me that his duty called him away from me at present, but
he added, that if I would tell him where I could be found, he would see
me in the morning, and give me any information in his power, as he
supposed that I was interested for this unfortunate woman. I put a card
with my address into his hands, thanked him, and got home as well as I
could. In the morning, the clergyman called upon me--a most benevolent
man, unknown to fame; but known to all the wretched within the reach of
his consolatory religion. He gave me a melancholy account of the last
days of the unhappy woman, whose funeral I had just seen. I told him who
I was, and what she had been to me. She had, almost in her last moments,
as he assured me, expressed her sense of, what she called, my generosity
to her, and had shown deep contrition for her infidelity. She died in
extreme poverty and wretchedness, with no human being who was, or even
seemed, interested for her, but a maid-servant (the woman whose voice I
recollected), whose services were purchased to the last, by presents of
whatever clothes or trinkets were left from the wreck of her mistress's
fortune. Crawley, it seems, had behaved brutally to his victim. After
having long delayed to perform his promise of marrying her, he declared
that he could never think of a woman who had been divorced in any other
way than a mistress: she, poor weak creature, consented to live with him
on any terms; but, as his passions and his interest soon turned to new
objects, he cast her off without scruple, refusing to pay any of the
tradesmen, who had supplied her while she bore his name. He refused to
pay the expenses even of her funeral, though she had shared with him her
annuity, and every thing she possessed. I paid the funeral expenses, and
some arrears of the maid's wages, together with such debts for
necessaries as I had reason to believe were justly due: the strict
economy with which I had lived for three years, and the parting with a
watch and some other trinkets too fine for my circumstances, enabled me
to pay this money without material inconvenience, and it was a
satisfaction to my mind. The good clergyman who managed these little
matters became interested for me, and our acquaintance with each other
grew every day more intimate and agreeable. When he found that I was
studying the law, he begged to introduce me to a brother of his, who had
been one of the most eminent special pleaders in London, and who now, on
a high salary, undertook to prepare students for the bar. I was rather
unwilling to accept of this introduction, because I was not rich enough
to become a pupil of this gentleman's; but my clergyman guessed the
cause of my reluctance, and told me that his brother had charged him to
overrule all such objections. "My brother and I," continued he, "though
of different professions, have in reality but one mind between us: he
has heard from me all the circumstances I know of you, and they have
interested him so much, that he desires, in plain English, to be of any
service he can to you."

This offer was made in earnest; and if I had given him the largest
salary that could have been offered by the most opulent of his pupils,
I could not have met with more attention, or have been instructed with
more zeal than I was, by my new friend the special pleader. He was also
so kind as to put me at ease by the assurance, that whenever I should
begin to make money by my profession, he would accept of remuneration.
He jestingly said, that he would make the same bargain with me that was
made by the famous sophist Protagoras of old with his pupil, that he
should have the profits of the first cause I should win--certain that I
would not, like his treacherous pupil Evathlus, employ the
rhetorician's arms against himself, to cheat him out of his promised
reward. My special pleader was not a mere man of forms and law
_rigmaroles_; he knew the reason for the forms he used: he had not only
a technical, but a rational knowledge of his business; and, what is
still more uncommon, he knew how to teach what he had learnt. He did
not merely set me down at a desk, and leave me skins after skins of
parchment to pore over in bewildered and hopeless stupidity; he did not
use me like a mere copying machine, to copy sheet after sheet for him,
every morning from nine till four, and again every evening from five
till ten. Mine was a law tutor of a superior sort. Wherever he could,
he gave me a clue to guide me through the labyrinth; and when no reason
could be devised for what the law directs, he never puzzled me by
attempting to explain what could not be explained; he did not insist
upon the total surrender of my rational faculties, but with wonderful
liberality would allow me to call nonsense, nonsense; and would, after
two or three hours' hard scrivening, as the case might require--for
this I thank him more than all the rest--permit me to yawn, and
stretch, and pity myself, and curse the useless repetitions of lawyers,
sinking under the weight of _declarations_, and _replications_, and
_double pleas_, and _dilatory, pleas_;

    _"Of horse pleas, traverses, demurrers,
    Jeofails, imparlances, and errors.
    Averments, bars, and profestandoes.'"_

O! Cecilia, what pains did I endure to win your applause! Yet, that I
may state the whole truth, let me acknowledge, that even these, my
dullest, hardest tasks, were light, compared with the burden I formerly
bore of ennui. At length my period of probation in my pleader's office
was over; I escaped from the dusky desk, and the smell of musty
parchments, and the close smoky room; I finished _eating my terms_ at
the Temple, and returned, even, as the captain of the packet swore, "in
the face and teeth of the wind," to Dublin.

But, in my haste to return, I must not omit to notice, for the sake of
poetical equity, that just when I was leaving England, I heard that slow
but sure-paced justice at last overtook that wretch Crawley. He was
detected and convicted of embezzling considerable sums, the property of
a gentleman in Cheshire, who had employed him as his agent. I saw him,
as I passed through Chester, going to prison, amidst the execrations of
the populace.




CHAPTER XXII.


As I was not, as formerly, asleep in my carriage on deck, when we came
within sight of the Irish shore, I saw, and hailed with delight, the
beautiful bay of Dublin. The moment we landed, instead of putting myself
out of humour, as before, with every thing at the Marine Hotel, I went
directly to my friend Lord Y----'s. I made my _sortie_ from the hotel
with so much extraordinary promptitude, that a slip-shod waiter was
forced to pursue me, running or shuffling after me the whole length of
the street, before he could overtake me with a letter, which had been
"waiting for my honour, at the hotel, since yesterday's Holyhead
packet." This was a mistake, as the letter had never come or gone by any
Holyhead packet; it was only a letter from Mr. M'Leod, to welcome me to
Ireland again; and to tell me, that he had taken care to secure good
well-aired lodgings for me: he added an account of what was going on at
Glenthorn Castle. The extravagance of _my lady_ had by this time reduced
the family to great difficulties for ready money, as they could neither
sell nor mortgage any part of the Glenthorn estate, which was settled on
the son. My poor foster-brother had, it seems, in vain attempted to
restrain the wasteful folly of his wife, and to persuade Johnny, the
young heir-apparent, to _larn_ to be a _jantleman_: in vain Christy
tried to prevail on his lordship to "refrain drinking whisky
_preferably_ to claret:" the youth pleaded both his father's and
mother's examples; and said, that as he was an only son, and his father
had but a life-interest in the estate, he _expected_ to be indulged; he
repeated continually "a short life and a merry one for me." Mr. M'Leod
concluded this letter by observing, "that far from its being a merry
life, he never saw any thing more sad than the life this foolish boy
led; and that Glenthorn Castle was so melancholy and disgusting a scene
of waste, riot, and intemperance, that he could not bear to go there." I
was grieved by this account, for the sake of my poor foster-brother; but
it would have made a deeper impression upon me at any other time. I must
own that I forgot the letter, and all that it contained, as I knocked at
Lord Y----'s door.

Lord Y---- received me with open arms; and, with all the kindness of
friendship, anticipated the questions I longed, yet feared, to ask.

"Cecilia Delamere is still unmarried--Let these words be enough
to content you for the present; all the rest is, I hope, in your
own power."

In my power!--delightful thought! yet how distant that hope! For I was
now, after all my labours, but just called to the bar; not yet likely,
for years, to make a guinea, much less a fortune, by my profession. Many
of the greatest of our lawyers have gone circuit for ten or twelve
years, before they made a _Fashionable Life_. hundred a year; and I was
at this time four-and-thirty. I confessed to my Lord Y----, that these
reflections alarmed and depressed me exceedingly: but he encouraged me
by this answer--"Persevere--deserve success; and trust the rest, not to
fortune, but to your friends. It is not required of you to make ten
thousand or one thousand a year at the bar, in any given time; but it is
expected from you to give proofs that you are capable of conquering the
indolence of your disposition or of your former habits. It is required
from you to give proofs of intellectual energy and ability. When you
have convinced me that you have the knowledge and assiduity that ought
to succeed at the bar, I shall be certain that only time is wanting to
your actual acquisition of a fortune equal to what I ought to require
for my fair friend and relation. When it comes to that point, it will,
my dear sir, be time enough for me to say more. Till it comes to that
point, I have promised Mrs. Delamere that you will not even attempt to
see her daughter. She blames me for having permitted Cecilia and you to
see so much of each other, as you did in this house when you were last
in Ireland. Perhaps I was imprudent, but your conduct has saved me from
my own reproaches, and I fear no other. I end where I began, with
'Persevere--and may the success your perseverance deserves be your
reward.' If I recollect right, these were nearly Miss Delamere's own
words at parting with you."

In truth, I had not forgotten them; and I was so much excited by their
repetition at this moment, and by my excellent friend's encouraging
voice, that all difficulties, all dread of future labours or evils,
vanished from my view. I went my first circuit, and made two guineas,
and was content; for Lord Y---- was not disappointed: he told me it
would, it must be so. But though I made no money, I obtained gradually,
amongst my associates at the bar, the reputation for judgment and
knowledge. Of this they could judge by my conversation, and by the
remarks on the trials brought on before us. The elder counsel had been
prepared in my favour, first by Mr. Devereux, and afterwards by my
diligence in following their advice, during my studies in Dublin: they
perceived that I had not lost my time in London, and that _my mind was
in my possession_. They prophesied, that from the moment I began to be
employed, I should rise rapidly. Opportunity, they told me, was now all
that I wanted, and for that I must wait with patience. I waited with as
much patience as I could. I had many friends; some among the judges,
some among a more powerful class of men, the attorneys: some of these
friends made for me by Mr. Devereux and Lady Geraldine; some by Lord
Y----; some, may I say it? by myself. Yet the utmost that even the
highest patronage from the bench can do for a young barrister is, to
give him an opportunity of distinguishing himself in preference to other
competitors. This was all I hoped; and I was not deceived in this hope.
It happened that a cause of considerable moment, which had come on in
our circuit, and to the whole course of which I had attended with great
care, was removed, by an appeal, to Dublin. I fortunately, I should say
prudently, was in the habit of constant attendance at the courts: the
counsel who was engaged to manage this cause was suddenly taken ill, and
was disabled from proceeding. The judge called upon me; the attorneys,
and the other counsel, were all agreed in wishing me to take up the
business, for they knew I was prepared, and competent to the question.
The next day the cause, which was then to be finally decided, came on. I
sat up all night to look over my documents, and to make myself sure of
my points. Ten years before this, if any one had prophesied this of me,
how little could I have believed them!

The trial came on--I rose to speak. How fortunate it was for me, that I
did not know my Lord Y---- was in the court! I am persuaded that I could
not have uttered three sentences, if he had caught my eye in the
exordium of this my first harangue. Every man of sensibility--and no man
without it can be an orator--every man of sensibility knows that it is
more difficult to speak in the presence of one anxious friend, of whose
judgment we have a high opinion, than before a thousand auditors who are
indifferent, and are strangers to us. Not conscious who was listening to
me, whose eyes were upon me, whose heart was beating for me, I spoke
with confidence and fluency, for I spoke on a subject of which I had
previously made myself completely master; and I was so full of the
matter, that I thought not of the words. Perhaps this, and my having the
right side of the question, were the causes of my success. I heard a
buzz of thanks and applause round me. The decree was given in our
favour. At this moment I recollected my bargain, and my debt to my good
master the special pleader. But all bargains, all debts, all special
pleaders, vanished the next instant from my mind; for the crowd opened,
Lord Y---- appeared before me, seized my hand, congratulated me actually
with tears of joy, carried me away to his carriage, ordered the coachman
to drive home--fast! fast!

"And now," said he to me, "I am satisfied. Your trial is
over--successfully over--you have convinced me of your powers and your
perseverance. All the hopes of friendship are fulfilled: may all the
hopes of love be accomplished! You have now my free and full
approbation to address my ward and relation, Cecilia Delamere. You will
have difficulties with her mother, perhaps; but none beyond what we
good and great lawyers shall, I trust, be able to overrule. Mrs.
Delamere knows, that, as I have an unsettled estate, and but one son, I
have it in my power to provide for her daughter as if she were my own.
It has always been my intention to do so: but if you marry Miss
Delamere, you will still find it necessary to pursue your profession
diligently, to maintain her in her own rank and style of life; and now
that you have felt the pleasures of successful exertion, you will
consider this necessity as an additional blessing. From what I have
heard this day, there can be no doubt, that, by pursuing your
profession, you can secure, in a few years, not only ease and
competence, but affluence and honours--honours of your own earning. How
far superior to any hereditary title!"

The carriage stopped at Lord Y----'s door. My friend presented me to
Cecilia, whom I saw this day for the first time since my return to
Ireland. From this hour I date the commencement of my life of real
happiness. How unlike that life of _pleasure_, to which so many give
erroneously the name of happiness! Lord Y----, with his powerful
influence, supported my cause with Mrs. Delamere, who was induced,
though with an ill grace, to give up her opposition.

"Cecilia," she said, "was now three-and-twenty, an age to judge for
herself; and Lord Y----'s judgment was a great point in favour of Mr.
O'Donoghoe, to be sure. And no doubt Mr. O'Donoghoe might make a
fortune, since he had made a figure already at the bar. In short, she
could not oppose the wishes of Lord Y----, and the affections of her
daughter, since they were so fixed. But, after all," said Mrs.
Delamere, "what a horrid thing it will be to hear my girl called Mrs.
O'Donoghoe! Only conceive the sound of--Mrs. O'Donoghoe's carriage
there!--Mrs. O'Donoghoe's carriage stops the way!"

"Your objection, my dear madam," replied Lord Y----, "is fully as well
founded as that of a young lady of my acquaintance, who could not
prevail on her delicacy to become the wife of a merchant of the name of
_Sheepshanks_. He very wisely, or very gallantly, paid five hundred
pounds to change his name. I make no doubt that your future son-in-law
will have no objection to take and bear the name and arms of Delamere;
and I think I can answer for it, that a king's letter may be obtained,
empowering him to do so. With this part of the business allow me to
charge myself."

I spare the reader the protracted journal of a lover's hopes and fears.
Cecilia, convinced, by the exertions in which I had so long persevered,
that my affection for her was not only sincere and ardent, but likely to
be permanent, did not torture me by the vain delays of female coquetry.
She believed, she said, that a man capable of conquering habitual
indolence could not be of a feeble character; and she therefore
consented, without hesitation, to entrust her happiness to my care.

I hope my readers have, by this time, too favourable an opinion of me to
suspect, that, in my joy, I forgot him who had been my steady friend in
adversity. I wrote to M'Leod, as soon as I knew my own happiness, and
assured him that it would be incomplete without his sympathy. I do not
think there was at our wedding a face of more sincere, though sober joy,
than M'Leod's. Cecilia and I have been now married above a twelvemonth,
and she permits me to say, that she has never, for a moment, repented
her choice. That I have not relapsed into my former habits, the
judicious and benevolent reader will hence infer: and yet I have been in
a situation to be spoiled; for I scarcely know a wish of my heart that
remains ungratified, except the wish that my friend Mr. Devereux and
Lady Geraldine should return from India, to see and partake of that
happiness of which they first prepared the foundation. They first
awakened my dormant intellects, made me know that I had a heart, and
that I was capable of forming a character for myself. The loss of my
estate continued the course of my education, forced me to exert my own
powers, and to rely upon myself. My passion for the amiable and charming
Cecilia was afterwards motive sufficient to urge me to persevering
intellectual labour: fortunately my marriage has obliged me to continue
my exertions, and the labours of my profession have made the pleasures
of domestic life most delightful. The rich, says a philosophic moralist,
are obliged to labour, if they would be healthy or happy; and they call
this labour exercise.

Whether, if I were again a rich man, I should have sufficient voluntary
exertion to take a due portion of mental and bodily exercise, I dare not
pretend to determine, nor do I wish to be put to the trial. Desiring
nothing in life but the continuance of the blessings I possess, I may
here conclude my memoirs, by assuring my readers, that after a full
experience of most of what are called the pleasures of life, I would not
accept of all the Glenthorn and Sherwood estates, to pass another year
of such misery as I endured whilst I was "stretched on the rack of a too
easy chair."

The preceding memoirs were just ready for publication, when I received
the following letter:


"HONOURED FOSTER-BROTHER,

"Since the day I parted yees, nothing in life but misfortins has
happened me, owing to my being overruled by my wife, who would be a
lady, all I could say again it. But that's over, and there's no help;
for all and all that ever she can say will do no good. The castle's
burnt down all to the ground, and my Johnny's dead, and I wish I was
dead in his place. The occasion of his death was owing to drink, which
he fell into from getting too much money, and nothing to do--and a snuff
of a candle. When going to bed last night, a little in liquor, what does
he do but takes the candle, and sticks it up against the head of his
bed, as he used oftentimes to do, without detriment, in the cabin where
he was reared, against the mud-wall. But this was close to an ould
window curtain, and a deal of ould wood in the bed, which was all in a
smother, and he lying asleep after drinking, when he was ever hard to
wake, and before he waked at all, it appears the unfortunit _cratur_ was
smothered, and none heard a sentence of it, till the ceiling of my room,
the blue bedchamber, with a piece of the big wood cornice, fell, and
wakened me with terrible uproar, and all above and about me was flame
and smoke, and I just took my wife on my back, and down the stairs with
her, which did not give in till five minutes after, and she screeching,
and all them relations she had screeching and running every one for
themselves, and no thought in any to save any thing at all, but just
what they could for themselves, and not a sarvant that was in his right
rason. I got the ladder with a deal of difficulty, and up to Johnny's
room, and there was a sight for me--he a corpse, and how even to get the
corpse out of that, myself could not tell, for I was bewildered, and how
they took me down, I don't well know. When I came to my sinses, I was
lying on the ground in the court, and all confusion and screaming still,
and the flames raging worse than ever. There's no use in describing
all--the short of it is, there's nothing remaining of the castle but the
stones; and it's little I'd think o' that, if I could have Johnny
back--such as he used to be in my good days; since he's gone, I am no
good. I write this to beg you, being married, of which I give you joy,
to Miss Delamere, that is the _hare_ at law, will take possession of all
immediately, for I am as good as dead, and will give no hindrance. I
will go back to my forge, and, by the help of God, forget at my work
what has passed; and as to my wife, she may go to her own kith and kin,
if she will not abide by me. I shall not trouble her long. Mr. M'Leod is
a good man, and will follow any directions you send; and may the
blessing of God attind, and come to reign over us again, when you will
find me, as heretofore,

"Your loyal foster-brother,

"CHRISTY DONOGHOE."


Glenthorn Castle is now rebuilding; and when it is finished, and when I
return thither, I will, if it should be desired by the public, give a
faithful account of my feelings. I flatter myself that I shall not
relapse into indolence; my understanding has been cultivated--I have
acquired a taste for literature, and the example of Lord Y---- convinces
me that a man may at once be rich and noble, and active and happy.

Written in 1804. Printed in 1809.




FOOTNOTES:


[73] Clodius Albinus.

[74] I was not the nobleman who laid a wager, that he could ride a fine
horse to death in fifteen minutes. Indeed, I must do myself the justice
to say, that I rejoiced at this man's losing his bet. He _blew_ the
horse in four minutes, and killed it; but it did not die within the time
prescribed by the bet.

[75] If any one should think it impossible that a man of Lord
Glenthorn's consequence should, at the supposed moment of his death,
thus be neglected, let them recollect the scenes that followed the death
of Tiberius--of Henry the Fourth of France--of William Rufus, and of
George the Second.

[76] "For fostering, I did never hear or read, that it was in use or
reputation in any country, barbarous or civil, as it hath been, and yet
is, in Ireland.... In the opinion of this people, fostering hath always
been a stronger alliance than blood; and the foster-children do love and
are beloved of their foster-fathers and their sept (or _clan_) more than
of their natural parents and kindred; and do participate of their means
more frankly, and do adhere unto them, in all fortunes, with more
affection and constancy.... Such a general custom in a kingdom, in
giving and taking children to foster, making such a firm alliance as it
doth in Ireland, was never seen or heard of in any other country of the
world beside."--DAVIES.

See in Lodge's Peerage of Ireland an account of an Irish nurse, who went
from Kerry to France, and from France to Milan, to see her foster-son,
the Lord Thomas Fitzmaurice; and to warn him that his estate was in
danger from an heir-at-law, who had taken possession of it in his
absence. The nurse, being very old, died on her return home.

[77] Verbatim.

[78] Since Lord Glenthorn's Memoirs were published, the editor has
received letters and information from the east, west, north, and south
of Ireland, on the present state of posting in that country. The
following is one of the many, which is vouched by indisputable authority
as a true and recent anecdote, given in the very words in which it was
related to the editor ... Mr. ------, travelling in Ireland, having got
into a hackney chaise, was surprised to hear the driver knocking at each
side of the carriage. "What are you doing?"--"A'n't I nailing your
honour up?"--"Why do you nail me up? I don't wish to be nailed
up."--"Augh! would your honour have the doors fly off the hinges?" When
they came to the end of the stage, Mr. ------ begged the man to unfasten
the doors. "Ogh! what would I he taking out the nails for, to be racking
the doors?"--"How shall I get out then?"--"Can't your honour get out of
the window like any other _jantleman?_" Mr. ------ began the operation;
but, having forced his head and shoulder out, could get no farther, and
called again to the postilion. "Augh! did any one ever see any one get
out of a chay head foremost? Can't your honour put out your feet first,
like a Christian?"

Another correspondent from the south relates, that when he refused to
go on till one of the four horses, who wanted a shoe, was shod, his two
postilions in his hearing commenced thus: "Paddy, where _will_ I get a
shoe, and no smith nigh hand?"--"Why don't you see yon _jantleman's_
horse in the field? can't you go and unshoe him?"--"True for ye," said
Jem; "but that horse's shoe will never fit him."--"Augh! you can but
try it," said Paddy.--So the gentleman's horse was actually unshod, and
his shoe put upon the hackney horse; and, fit or not fit, Paddy went
off with it.

Another gentleman, travelling in the north of Ireland in a hackney
chaise during a storm of wind and rain, found that two of the windows
were broken, and two could not by force or art of man be pulled up: he
ventured to complain to his Paddy of the inconvenience he suffered from
the storm pelting in his face. His consolation was, "Augh! God bless
your honour, and can't you get out and _set_ behind the carriage, and
you'll not get a drop at all, I'll engage."

[79] Mirabeau--Secret Memoirs.

[80] See Philosophical Transactions, vol. lxvii. part ii., Sir George
Shuckburgh's observations to ascertain the height of mountains--for a
full account of the cabin of a couple of Alpine shepherdesses.

[81] See Harrison.

[82] "En petit compris vous pouvez voir
     Ce qui comprend beaucoup par renommé,
     Plume, labeur, la langue, et le devoir
     Furent vaincus par l'amant de l'aimée.
     O gentille ame, étant toute estimée!
     Qui te pourra louer, qu'en se taisant?
     Car la parole est toujours réprimée
     Quand le sujet surmonte le disant."

[83] "The stag is roused from the woods that skirt Glenaa mountain, in
which there are many of these animals that run wild; the bottoms and
sides of the mountains are covered with woods, and the declivities are
so long and steep that no horse could either make his way to the bottom,
or climb these impracticable hills. It is impossible to follow the hunt,
either on foot or on horseback. The spectator enjoys the diversion on
the lake, where the cry of hounds, the harmony of the horn, resounding
from the hills on every side, the universal shouts of joy along the
valleys and mountains, which are often lined with foot-people, who come
in vast numbers to partake and assist at the diversion, re-echo from
hill to hill, and give the highest glee and satisfaction that the
imagination can conceive possible to arise from the chase, and perhaps
can nowhere be enjoyed with that spirit and sublime elevation of soul,
that a thorough-bred sportsman feels at a stag-hunt on the Lake of
Killarney. There is, however, one imminent danger which awaits him; that
in his raptures and ecstasies he may forget himself and jump out of the
boat. When hotly pursued, and weary with the constant difficulty of
making his way with his ramified antlers through the woods, the stag,
terrified at the cry of his open-mouthed pursuers, almost at his heels,
now looks toward the lake as his last resource--then pauses and looks
upwards; but the hills are insurmountable, and the woods refuse to
shelter him--the hounds roar with redoubled fury at the sight of their
victim--he plunges into the lake. He escapes but for a few minutes from
one merciless enemy to fall into the hands of another--the shouting
boat-men surround their victim--throw cords round his majestic
antlers--he is haltered and dragged to shore; while the big tears roll
down his face, and his heaving sides and panting flanks speak his
agonies, the keen searching knife drinks his blood, and savages exult at
his expiring groan."

[84] Than.

[85] An Irishman in using this word has some confused notion that it
comes from _negro_; whereas it really means niggard.






THE DUN.


    "Horrible monster! hated by gods and men."--PHILLIPS.

"In the higher and middle classes of society," says a celebrated writer,
"it is a melancholy and distressing sight to observe, not unfrequently,
a man of a noble and ingenuous disposition, once feelingly alive to a
sense of honour and integrity, gradually sinking under the pressure of
his circumstances, making his excuses at first with a blush of conscious
shame, afraid to see the faces of his friends from whom he may have
borrowed money, reduced to the meanest tricks and subterfuges to delay
or avoid the payment of his just debts, till, ultimately grown familiar
with falsehood, and at enmity with the world, he loses all the grace and
dignity of man."

Colonel Pembroke, the subject of the following story, had not, at the
time his biographer first became acquainted with him, "grown familiar
with falsehood;" his conscience was not entirely callous to reproach,
nor was his heart insensible to compassion; but he was in a fair way to
get rid of all troublesome feelings and principles. He was connected
with a set of selfish young men of fashion, whose opinions stood him in
stead of law, equity, and morality; to them he appealed in all doubtful
cases, and his self-complacency being daily and hourly dependent upon
their decisions, he had seldom either leisure or inclination to consult
his own judgment. His amusements and his expenses were consequently
regulated by the example of his companions, not by his own choice. To
follow them in every absurd variety of the mode, either in dress or,
equipage, was his first ambition; and all their factitious wants
appeared to him objects of the first necessity. No matter how good the
boots, the hat, the coat, the furniture, or the equipage might be, if
they had outlived the fashion of the day, or even of the hour, they were
absolutely worthless in his eyes. _Nobody_ could be seen in such
things--then of what use could they be to _any body_? Colonel Pembroke's
finances were not exactly equal to the support of such _liberal_
principles; but this was a misfortune which he had in common with
several of his companions. It was no check to their spirit--they could
live upon credit--credit, "that talisman, which realizes every thing it
imagines, and which can imagine every thing." [See Des Casaux sur le
Méchanisme de la Société.] Without staying to reflect upon the immediate
or remote consequences of this system, Pembroke, in his first attempts,
found it easy to reduce it to practice: but, as he proceeded, he
experienced some difficulties. Tradesmen's bills accumulated, and
applications for payment became every day more frequent and pressing. He
defended himself with much address and ingenuity, and practice perfected
him in all the Fabian arts of delay. "_No faith with duns_" became, as
he frankly declared, a maxim of his morality. He could now, with a most
plausible face, protest to a _poor devil_, upon the honour of a
gentleman, that he should be paid to-morrow; when nothing was farther
from his intentions or his power than to keep his word: and when
_to-morrow_ came, he could, with the most easy assurance, _damn the
rascal_ for putting a gentleman in mind of his promises. But there were
persons more difficult to manage than _poor devils_. Colonel Pembroke's
tailor, who had begun by being the most accommodating fellow in the
world, and who had in three years run him up a bill of thirteen hundred
pounds, at length began to fail in complaisance, and had the
impertinence to talk of his large family, and his urgent calls for
money, etc. And next, the colonel's shoe and boot-maker, a man from whom
he had been in the habit of taking two hundred pounds' worth of shoes
and boots every year, for himself and his servants, now pretended to be
in distress for ready money, and refused to furnish more goods upon
credit. "Ungrateful dog!" Pembroke called him; and he actually believed
his creditors to be ungrateful and insolent, when they asked for their
money; for men frequently learn to believe what they are in the daily
habit of asserting [Rochefoucault], especially if their assertions be
not contradicted by their audience. He knew that his tradesmen
overcharged him in every article he bought, and therefore he thought it
but just to delay payment whilst it suited his convenience. "Confound
them, they can very well afford to wait!" As to their pleas of urgent
demands for ready money, large families, &c., he considered these merely
as words of course, tradesmen's cant, which should make no more
impression upon a gentleman than the whining of a beggar.

One day when Pembroke was just going out to ride with some of his gay
companions, he was stopped at his own door by a pale, thin,
miserable-looking boy, eight or nine years old, who presented him with a
paper, which he took for granted was a petition; he threw the child
half-a-crown. "There, take that," said he, "and stand out of the way of
my horse's heels, I advise you, my little fellow."

The boy, however, still pressed closer; and, without picking up the
half-crown, held the paper to Colonel Pembroke, who had now vaulted into
his saddle.

"O no! no! That's too much, my lad--I never read petitions--I'd sooner
give half-a-crown at any time than read a petition."

"But, sir, this is not a petition--indeed, sir, I am not a beggar."

"What is it then?--Heyday! a bill!--Then you're worse than a beggar--a
dun!--a dun! in the public streets, at your time of life! You little
rascal, why what will you come to before you are your father's age?" The
boy sighed. "If," pursued the colonel, "I were to serve you right, I
should give you a good horse-whipping. Do you see this whip?"

"I do, sir," said the boy; "but----"

"But what? you insolent little dun!--But what?"

"My father is dying," said the child, bursting into tears, "and we have
no money to buy him bread, or any thing."

Struck by these words, Pembroke snatched the paper from the boy, and
looking hastily at the total and title of the bill, read--"Twelve pounds
fourteen--John White, weaver."--"I know of no such person!--I have no
dealings with weavers, child," said the colonel, laughing: "My name's
Pembroke--Colonel Pembroke."

"Colonel Pembroke--yes, sir, the very person Mr. Close, the tailor,
sent me to!"

"Close the tailor! D--n the rascal: was it he sent you to dun me? For
this trick he shall not see a farthing of my money this twelvemonth. You
may tell him so, you little whining hypocrite!--And, hark you! the next
time you come to me, take care to come with a better story--let your
father and mother, and six brothers and sisters, be all lying ill of the
fever--do you understand?"

He tore the bill into bits as he spoke, and showered it over the boy's
head. Pembroke's companions laughed at this operation, and he
facetiously called it "powdering a dun." They rode off to the Park in
high spirits; and the poor boy picked up the half-crown, and returned
home. His home was in a lane in Moorfields, about three miles distant
from this gay part of the town. As the child had not eaten any thing
that morning, he was feeble, and grew faint as he was crossing Covent
Garden. He sat down upon the corner of a stage of flowers.

"What are you doing there?" cried a surly man, pulling him up by the
arm; "What business have you lounging and loitering here, breaking my
best balsam?"

"I did not mean to do any harm--I am not loitering, indeed, sir,--I'm
only weak," said the boy, "and hungry."

"Oranges! oranges! fine China oranges!" cried a woman, rolling her
barrow full of fine fruit towards him. "If you've a two-pence in
the world, you can't do better than take one of these fine ripe
China oranges."

"I have not two-pence of my own in the world," said the boy.

"What's that I see through the hole in your waistcoat pocket?" said the
woman; "is not that silver?"

"Yes, half-a-crown; which I am carrying home to my father, who is ill,
and wants it more than I do."

"Pooh! take an orange out of it--it's only two-pence--and it will do you
good--I'm sure you look as if you wanted it badly enough."

"That may be; but father wants it worse.--No, I won't change my
half-crown," said the boy, turning away from the tempting oranges.

The gruff gardener caught him by the hand.

"Here, I've moved the balsam a bit, and it is not broke, I see; sit ye
down, child, and rest yourself, and eat this," said he, putting into his
hand half a ripe orange, which he just cut.

"Thank you!--God bless you, sir!--How good it is!--But," said the child,
stopping after he had tasted the sweet juice, "I am sorry I have sucked
so much; I might have carried it home to father, who is ill; and what a
treat it would be to him!--I'll keep the rest."

"No--that you sha'n't," said the orange-woman. "But I'll tell you what
you shall do--take this home to your father, which is a better one by
half--I'm sure it will do him good--I never knew a ripe China orange do
harm to man, woman, or child."

The boy thanked the good woman and the gardener, as only those can thank
who have felt what it is to be in absolute want. When he was rested, and
able to walk, he pursued his way home. His mother was watching for him
at the street-door.

"Well, John, my dear, what news? Has he paid us?"

The boy shook his head.

"Then we must bear it as well as we can," said his mother, wiping the
cold dew from her forehead.

"But look, mother, I have this half-crown, which the gentleman, thinking
me a beggar, threw to me."

"Run with it, love, to the baker's. No--stay, you're tired--I'll go
myself; and do you step up to your father, and tell him the bread is
coming in a minute."

"Don't run, for you're not able, mother; don't hurry so," said the boy,
calling after her, and holding up his orange: "see, I have this for
father whilst you are away."

He clambered up three flights of dark, narrow, broken stairs, to the
room in which his father lay. The door hung by a single hinge, and the
child had scarcely strength enough to raise it out of the hollow in the
decayed floor into which it had sunk. He pushed it open, with as little
noise as possible, just far enough to creep in.

Let those forbear to follow him whose fine feelings can be moved only by
romantic, elegant scenes of distress, whose delicate sensibility shrinks
from the revolting sight of real misery. Here are no pictures for
romance, no stage effect to be seen, no poetic language to be heard;
nothing to charm the imagination,--every thing to disgust the senses.

This room was so dark, that upon first going into it, after having been
in broad daylight, you could scarcely distinguish any one object it
contained; and no one used to breathe a pure atmosphere could probably
have endured to remain many minutes in this garret. There were three
beds in it: one on which the sick man lay; divided from it by a tattered
rug was another, for his wife and daughter; and a third for his little
boy in the farthest corner. Underneath the window was fixed a loom, at
which the poor weaver had worked hard many a day and year--too hard,
indeed--even till the very hour he was taken ill. His shuttle now lay
idle upon his frame. A girl of about sixteen--his daughter--was sitting
at the foot of his bed, finishing some plain work.

"Oh, Anne! how your face is all flushed!" said her little brother, as
she looked up when he came into the room.

"Have you brought us any money?" whispered she: "don't say _No_ loud,
for fear father should hear you." The boy told her in a low voice all
that had passed.

"Speak out, my dear, I'm not asleep," said his father. "So you are come
back as you went?"

"No, father, not quite--there's bread coming for you."

"Give me some more water, Anne, for my mouth is quite parched."

The little boy cut his orange in an instant, and gave a piece of it
to his father, telling him, at the same time, how he came by it The
sick man raised his hands to heaven, and blessed the poor woman who
gave it to him.

"Oh, how I love her! and how I hate that cruel, unjust, rich man, who
won't pay father for all the hard work he has done for him!" cried the
child: "how I hate him!"

"God forgive him!" said the weaver. "I don't know what will become of
you all, when I'm gone; and no one to befriend you, or even to work at
the loom. Anne, I think if I was up," said he, raising himself, "I could
still contrive to do a little good."

"Dear father, don't think of getting up; the best you can do for us is
to lie still and take rest."

"Rest! I can take no rest, Anne. Rest! there's none for me in this
world. And whilst I'm in it, is not it my duty to work for my wife and
children? Reach me my clothes, and I'll get up."

It was in vain to contend with him, when this notion seized him that it
was his duty to work till the last. All opposition fretted and made him
worse; so that his daughter and his wife, even from affection, were
forced to yield, and to let him go to the loom, when his trembling hands
were scarcely able to throw the shuttle. He did not know how weak he was
till he tried to walk. As he stepped out of bed, his wife came in with a
loaf of bread in her hand: at the unexpected sight he made an
exclamation of joy; sprang forward to meet her, but fell upon the floor
in a swoon, before he could put one bit of the bread which she broke for
him into his mouth. Want of sustenance, the having been overworked, and
the constant anxiety which preyed upon his spirits, had reduced him to
this deplorable state of weakness. When he recovered his senses, his
wife showed him his little boy eating a large piece of bread; she also
ate, and made Anne eat before him, to relieve his mind from that dread
which had seized it--and not without some reason--that he should see his
wife and children starve to death.

"You find, father, there's no danger for to-day," said Anne; "and
to-morrow I shall be paid for my plain work, and then we shall do very
well for a few days longer; and I dare say in that time Mr. Close the
tailor will receive some money from some of the great many rich
gentlemen who owe him so much; and you know he promised that as soon as
ever he was able he would pay us."

With such hopes, and the remembrance of such promises, the poor man's
spirits could not be much raised; he knew, alas! how little dependence
was to be placed on them. As soon as he had eaten, and felt his strength
revive, he insisted upon going to the loom; his mind was bent upon
finishing a pattern, for which he was to receive five guineas in ready
money: he worked and worked, then lay down and rested himself,--then
worked again, and so on during the remainder of the day; and during
several hours of the night he continued to throw the shuttle, whilst his
little boy and his wife by turns wound spools for him.

He completed his work, and threw himself upon his bed quite exhausted,
just as the neighbouring clock struck one.

At this hour Colonel Pembroke was in the midst of a gay and brilliant
assembly at Mrs. York's, in a splendid saloon, illuminated with
wax-lights in profusion, the floor crayoned with roses and myrtles,
which the dancers' feet effaced, the walls hung with the most expensive
hot-house flowers; in short, he was surrounded with luxury in all its
extravagance. It is said that the peaches alone at this entertainment
amounted to six hundred guineas. They cost a guinea a-piece: the price
of one of them, which Colonel Pembroke threw away because it was not
perfectly ripe, would have supported the weaver and his whole family
for a week.

There are political advocates for luxury, who assert, perhaps justly,
that the extravagance of individuals increases the wealth of nations.
But even upon this system, those who by false hopes excite the
industrious to exertion, without paying them their just wages, commit
not only the most cruel private injustice, but the most important public
injury. The permanence of industry in any state must be proportioned to
the certainty of its reward.

Amongst the masks at Mrs. York's were three who amused the company
particularly; the festive mob followed them as they moved, and their
bon-mots were applauded and repeated by all the best, that is to say,
the most fashionable male and female judges of wit. The three
distinguished characters were a spendthrift, a bailiff, and a dun. The
spendthrift was supported with great spirit and _truth_ by Colonel
Pembroke, and two of his companions were _great_ and _correct_ in the
parts of the bailiff and the dun. The happy idea of appearing in these
characters this night had been suggested by the circumstance that
happened in the morning. Colonel Pembroke gave himself great credit, he
said, for thus "striking novelty even from difficulty;" and he rejoiced
that the rascal of a weaver had sent his boy to dun him, and had thus
furnished him with diversion for the evening as well as the morning. We
are much concerned that we cannot, for the advantage of posterity,
record any of the innumerable _good things_ which undoubtedly were
uttered by this trio. Even the newspapers of the day could speak only in
general panegyric. The probability, however, is, that the colonel
deserved the praises that were lavished upon his manner of supporting
his character. No man was better acquainted than himself with all those
anecdotes of men of fashion, which could illustrate the spendthrift
system. At least fifty times he had repeated, and always with the same
_glee_, the reply of a great character to a creditor, who, upon being
asked when his _bond_ debts were likely to be paid, answered, "On the
day of judgment."

Probably the admiration which this and similar sallies of wit have
excited, must have produced a strong desire in the minds of many young
men of spirit to perform similar feats; and though the ruin of
innumerable poor creditors may be the consequence, that will not surely
be deemed by a certain class of reasoners worthy of a moment's regret,
or even a moment's thought. Persons of tender consciences may, perhaps,
be shocked at the idea of committing injustice and cruelty by starving
their creditors, but they may strengthen their minds by taking an
enlarged political view of the subject.

It is obvious, that whether a hundred guineas be in the pocket of A or
B, the total sum of the wealth of the nation remains the same; and
whether the enjoyments of A be as 100, and those of B as 0,--or whether
these enjoyments be equally divided between A and B,--is a matter of no
importance to the political arithmetician, because in both cases it is
obvious that the total sum of national happiness remains the same. The
happiness of individuals is nothing compared with the general mass.

And if the individual B should fancy himself ill-used by our political
arithmetician, and should take it into his head to observe, that though
the happiness of B is nothing to the general mass, yet that it is every
thing to him, the politician of course takes snuff, and replies, that
his observation is foreign to the purpose--that the good of the whole
society is the object in view. And if B immediately accede to this
position, and only ask humbly whether the good of the whole be not made
up of the good of the parts, and whether as a part he have not some
right to his share of good, the dexterous logical arithmetician answers,
that B is totally out of the question, because B is a negative quantity
in the equation. And if obstinate B, still conceiving himself aggrieved,
objects to this total annihilation of himself and his interests, and
asks why the lot of extinction should not fall upon the debtor C, or
even upon the calculator himself, by whatever letter of the alphabet he
happens to be designated, the calculator must knit his brow, and
answer--any thing he pleases--except, _I don't know_--for this is a
phrase below the dignity of a philosopher. This argument is produced,
not as a statement of what is really the case, but as a popular argument
against political sophistry.

Colonel Pembroke, notwithstanding his success at Mrs. York's masquerade
in his character of a spendthrift, could not by his utmost wit and
address satisfy or silence his impertinent tailor. Mr. Close absolutely
refused to give further credit without valuable consideration; and the
colonel was compelled to pass his bond for the whole sum which was
claimed, which was fifty pounds more than was strictly due, in order to
compound with the tailor for the want of ready money. When the bond was
fairly signed, sealed, and delivered, Mr. Close produced the poor
weaver's bill.

"Colonel Pembroke," said he, "I have a trifling bill here--I am really
ashamed to speak to you about such a trifle--but as we are settling all
accounts--and as this White, the weaver, is so wretchedly poor, that he
or some of his family are with me every day of my life dunning me to get
me to speak about their little demand--"

"Who is this White?" said Mr. Pembroke.

"You recollect the elegant waistcoat pattern of which you afterwards
bought up the whole piece, lest it should become common and
vulgar?--this White was the weaver from whom we got it."

"Bless me! why that's two years ago: I thought that fellow was paid
long ago!"

"No, indeed, I wish he had been; for he has been the torment of my life
this many a month--I never saw people so eager about their money."

"But why do you employ such miserable, greedy creatures? What can you
expect but to be dunned every hour of your life?"

"Very true, indeed, colonel; it is what I always, on that principle,
avoid as far as possibly I can: but I can't blame myself in this
particular instance; for this White, at the time I employed him first,
was a very decent man, and in a very good way, for one of his sort: but
I suppose he has taken to drink, for he is worth not a farthing now."

"What business has a fellow of his sort to drink? He should leave that
for his betters," said Colonel Pembroke, laughing. "Drinking's too great
a pleasure for a weaver. The drunken rascal's money is safer in my
hands, tell him, than in his own."

The tailor's conscience twinged him a little at this instant, for he had
spoken entirely at random, not having the slightest grounds for his
insinuation that this poor weaver had ruined himself by drunkenness.

"Upon my word, sir," said Close, retracting, "the man may not be a
drunken fellow for any thing I know positively--I purely surmised _that_
might be the case, from his having fallen into such distress, which is
no otherwise accountable for, to my comprehension, except we believe his
own story, that he has money due to him which he cannot get paid, and
that this has been his ruin."

Colonel Pembroke cleared his throat two or three times upon hearing
this last suggestion, and actually took up the weaver's bill with some
intention of paying it; but he recollected that he should want the
ready money he had in his pocket for another indispensable occasion;
for he was _obliged_ to go to Brookes's that night; so he contented
his humanity by recommending it to Mr. Close to pay White and have
done with him.

"If you let him have the money, you know, you can put it down to my
account, or make a memorandum of it at the back of the bond. In short,
settle it as you will, but let me hear no more about it. I have not
leisure to think of such trifles--Good morning to you, Mr. Close."

Mr. Close was far from having any intention of complying with the
colonel's request. When the weaver's wife called upon him after his
return home, he assured her that he had not seen the colour of one
guinea, or one farthing, of Colonel Pembroke's money; and that it was
absolutely impossible that he could pay Mr. White till he was paid
himself--that it could not be expected he should advance money for any
body out of his own pocket--that he begged he might not be pestered
and dunned any more, for that _he really had not leisure to think of
such trifles_.

For want of this trifle, of which neither the fashionable colonel nor
his fashionable tailor had leisure to think, the poor weaver and his
whole family were reduced to the last degree of human misery--to
absolute famine. The man had exerted himself to the utmost to finish a
pattern, which had been bespoken for a tradesman who promised upon the
delivery of it to pay him five guineas in hand. This money he received;
but four guineas of it were due to his landlord for rent of his wretched
garret, and the remaining guinea was divided between the baker, to whom
an old bill was due, and the apothecary, to whom they were obliged to
have recourse, as the weaver was extremely ill. They had literally
nothing now to depend upon but what the wife and daughter could earn by
needlework; and they were known to be so miserably poor, that the
_prudent_ neighbours did not like to trust them with plain work, lest it
should not be returned safely. Besides, in such a dirty place as they
lived in, how could it be expected that they should put any work out of
their hands decently clean? The woman to whom the house belonged,
however, at last procured them work from Mrs. Carver, a widow lady, who
she said was extremely charitable. She advised Anne to carry home the
work as soon as it was finished, and to wait to see the lady herself,
who might perhaps be as charitable to her as she was to many others.
Anne resolved to take this advice: but when she carried home her work to
the place to which she was directed, her heart almost failed her; for
she found Mrs. Carver lived in such a handsome house, that there was
little chance of a poor girl being admitted by the servants farther than
the hall-door or the kitchen. The lady, however, happened to be just
coming out of her parlour at the moment the hall-door was opened for
Anne; and she bid her come in and show her work--approved of
it--commended her industry--asked her several questions about her
family--seemed to be touched with compassion by Anne's account of their
distress--and after paying what she had charged for the work, put
half-a-guinea into her hand, and bid her call the next day, when she
hoped that she should be able to do something more for her. This
unexpected bounty, and the kindness of voice and look with which it was
accompanied, had such an effect upon the poor girl, that if she had not
caught hold of a chair to support herself she would have sunk to the
ground. Mrs. Carver immediately made her sit down--"Oh, madam! I'm well,
quite well now--it was nothing--only surprise," said she, bursting into
tears. "I beg your pardon for this foolishness--but it is only because
I'm weaker to-day than usual, for want of eating."

"For want of eating! my poor child! How she trembles! she is weak
indeed, and must not leave my house in this condition."

Mrs. Carver rang the bell, and ordered a glass of wine; but Anne was
afraid to drink it, as she was not used to wine, and as she knew that it
would affect her head if she drank without eating. When the lady found
that she refused the wine, she did not press it, but insisted upon her
eating something.

"Oh, madam!" said the poor girl, "it is long, long indeed, since I have
eaten so heartily; and it is almost a shame for me to stay eating such
dainties, when my father and mother are all the while in the way they
are. But I'll run home with the half-guinea, and tell them how good you
have been, and they will be so joyful and so thankful to you! My mother
will come herself, I'm sure, with me to-morrow morning--she can thank
you so much better than I can!"

Those only who have known the extreme of want can imagine the joy and
gratitude with which the half-guinea was received by this poor family.
Half-a-guinea!--Colonel Pembroke spent six half-guineas this very day in
a fruit-shop, and ten times that sum at a jeweller's on seals and
baubles for which he had no manner of use.

When Anne and her mother called the next morning to thank their
benefactress, she was not up; but her servant gave them a parcel from
his mistress: it contained a fresh supply of needlework, a gown, and
some other clothes, which were directed _for Anne_. The servant said,
that if she would call again about eight in the evening, his lady would
probably be able to see her, and that she begged to have the work
finished by that time. The work was finished, though with some
difficulty, by the appointed hour; and Anne, dressed in her new clothes,
was at Mrs. Carver's door just as the clock struck eight. The old lady
was alone at tea; she seemed to be well pleased by Anne's punctuality;
said that she had made inquiries respecting Mr. and Mrs. White, and that
she heard an excellent character of them; that therefore she was
disposed to do every thing she could to serve them. She added, that she
"should soon part with her own maid, and that perhaps Anne might supply
her place." Nothing could be more agreeable to the poor girl than this
proposal: her father and mother were rejoiced at the idea of seeing her
so well placed; and they now looked forward impatiently for the day when
Mrs. Carver's maid was to be dismissed. In the mean time the old lady
continued to employ Anne, and to make her presents, sometimes of
clothes, and sometimes of money. The money she always gave to her
parents; and she loved her "good old lady," as she always called her,
more for putting it in her power thus to help her father and mother than
for all the rest. The weaver's disease had arisen from want of
sufficient food, from fatigue of body, and anxiety of mind; and he grew
rapidly better, now that he was relieved from want, and inspired with
hope. Mrs. Carver bespoke from him two pieces of waistcoating, which she
promised to dispose of for him most advantageously, by a raffle, for
which she had raised subscriptions amongst her numerous acquaintance.
She expressed great indignation, when Anne told her how Mr. White had
been ruined by persons who would not pay their just debts; and when she
knew that the weaver was overcharged for all his working materials,
because he took them upon credit, she generously offered to lend them
whatever ready money might be necessary, which she said Anne might
repay, at her leisure, out of her wages.

"Oh, madam!" said Anne, "you are too good to us, indeed--too good! and
if you could but see into our hearts, you would know that we are not
ungrateful."

"I am sure _that_ is what you never will be, my dear," said the old
lady; "at least such is my opinion of you."

"Thank you, ma'am! thank you, from the bottom of my heart!--We
should all have been starved, if it had not been for you. And it is
owing to you that we are so happy now--quite different creatures
from what we were."

"Quite a different creature indeed, you look, child, from what you did
the first day I saw you. To-morrow my own maid goes, and you may come at
ten o'clock; and I hope we shall agree very well together--you'll find
me an easy mistress, and I make no doubt I shall always find you the
good, grateful girl you seem to be."

Anne was impatient for the moment when she was to enter into the service
of her benefactress; and she lay awake half the night, considering how
she should ever be able to show sufficient gratitude. As Mrs. Carver had
often expressed her desire to have Anne look neat and smart, she dressed
herself as well as she possibly could; and when her poor father and
mother took leave of her, they could not help observing, as Mrs. Carver
had done the day before, that "Anne looked quite a different creature
from what she was a few weeks ago." She was, indeed, an extremely pretty
girl; but we need not stop to relate all the fond praises that were
bestowed upon her beauty by her partial parents. Her little brother John
was not at home when she was going away; he was at a carpenter's shop in
the neighbourhood mending a wheelbarrow, which belonged to that
good-natured orange-woman who gave him the orange for his father. Anne
called at the carpenter's shop to take leave of her brother. The woman
was there waiting for her barrow--she looked earnestly at Anne when she
entered, and then whispered to the boy, "Is that your sister?"--"Yes,"
said the boy, "and as good a sister she is as ever was born."

"Maybe so," said the woman; "but she is not likely to be good for much
long, in the way she is going on now."

"What way--what do you mean?" said Anne, colouring violently.

"Oh, you understand me well enough, though you look so innocent."

"I do not understand you in the least."

"No!--Why, is not it you that I see going almost every day to that house
in Chiswell-street?"

"Mrs. Carver's?--Yes."

"Mrs. Carver's indeed!" cried the woman, throwing an orange-peel from
her with an air of disdain--"a pretty come-off indeed! as if I did not
know her name, and all about her, as well as you do."

"Do you?" said Anne; "then I am sure you know one of the best women in
the world."

The woman looked still more earnestly than before in Anne's countenance;
and then, taking hold of both her hands, exclaimed, "You poor young
creature! what are you about? I do believe you don't know what you are
about--if you do, you are the greatest cheat I ever looked in the face,
long as I've lived in this cheating world."

"You frighten my sister," said the boy: "do pray tell her what you mean
at once, for look how pale she turns!"

"So much the better, for now I have good hope of her. Then to tell you
all at once--no matter how I frighten her, it's for her good--this Mrs.
Carver, as you call her, is only Mrs. Carver when she wants to pass upon
such as you for a good woman."

"To pass for a good woman!" repeated Anne, with indignation. "Oh, she
is, she is a good woman--you do not know her as I do."

"I know her a great deal better, I tell you: if you choose not to
believe me, go your ways--go to your ruin--go to your shame--go to
your grave--as hundreds have gone, by the same road, before you. Your
Mrs. Carver keeps two houses, and one of them is a bad house--and
that's the house you'll soon go to, if you trust to her: now you know
the whole truth."

The poor girl was shocked so much, that for several minutes she could
neither speak nor think. As soon as she had recovered sufficient
presence of mind to consider what she should do, she declared that she
would that instant go home and put on her rags again, and return to the
wicked Mrs. Carver all the clothes she had given her.

"But what will become of us all?--She has lent my father money--a great
deal of money. How can he pay her?--Oh, I will pay her all--I will go
into some honest service, now I am well and strong enough to do any sort
of hard work, and God knows I am willing."

Full of these resolutions, Anne hurried home, intending to tell her
father and mother all that had happened; but they were neither of them
within. She flew to the mistress of the house, who had first recommended
her to Mrs. Carver, and reproached her in the most moving terms which
the agony of her mind could suggest. Her landlady listened to her with
astonishment, either real or admirably well affected--declared that she
knew nothing more of Mrs. Carver but that she lived in a large fine
house, and that she had been very charitable to some poor people in
Moorfields--that she bore the best of characters--and that if nothing
could be said against her but by an orange-woman, there was no great
reason to believe such scandal.

Anne now began to think that the whole of what she had heard might be a
falsehood, or a mistake; one moment she blamed herself for so easily
suspecting a person who had shown her so much kindness; but the next
minute the emphatic words and warning looks of the woman recurred to her
mind; and though they were but the words and looks of an orange-woman,
she could not help dreading that there was some truth in them. The clock
struck ten whilst she was in this uncertainty. The woman of the house
urged her to go without farther delay to Mrs. Carver's, who would
undoubtedly be displeased by any want of punctuality; but Anne wished to
wait for the return of her father and mother.

"They will not be back, either of them, these three hours, for your
mother is gone to the other end of the town about that old bill of
Colonel Pembroke's, and your father is gone to buy some silk for
weaving--he told me he should not be home before three o'clock."

Notwithstanding these remonstrances, Anne persisted in her resolution:
she took off the clothes which she had received from Mrs. Carver, and
put on those which she had been used to wear. Her mother was much
surprised, when she came in, to see her in this condition; and no words
can describe her grief, when she heard the cause of this change. She
blamed herself severely for not having made inquiries concerning Mrs.
Carver before she had suffered her daughter to accept of any presents
from her; and she wept bitterly, when she recollected the money which
this woman had lent her husband.

"She will throw him into jail, I am sure she will--we shall be worse off
a thousand times than ever we were in our worst days. The work that is
in the loom, by which he hoped to get so much, is all for her, and it
will be left upon our hands now; and how are we to pay the woman of this
house for the lodgings?----Oh! I see it all coming upon us at once,"
continued the poor woman, wringing her hands. "If that Colonel Pembroke
would but let us have our own!--But there I've been all the morning
hunting him out, and at last, when I did see him, he only swore, and
said we were all a family of _duns_, or some such nonsense. And then he
called after me from the top of his fine stairs, just to say, that he
had ordered Close the tailor to pay us; and when I went to him there was
no satisfaction to be got from him--his shop was full of customers, and
he hustled me away, giving me for answer, that when Colonel Pembroke
paid him, he would pay us, and no sooner. Ah! these purse-proud
tradesfolk, and these sparks of fashion, what do they know of all we
suffer? What do they care for us?--It is not for charity I ask any of
them--only for what my own husband has justly earned, and hardly toiled
for too; and this I cannot get out of their hands. If I could, we might
defy this wicked woman--but now we are laid under her feet, and she will
trample us to death."

In the midst of these lamentations, Anne's father came in: when he
learned the cause of them, he stood for a moment in silence; then
snatched from his daughter's hand the bundle of clothes, which she had
prepared to return to Mrs. Carver.

"Give them to me; I will go to this woman myself," cried he with
indignation: "Anne shall never more set her foot within those doors."

"Dear father," cried Anne, stopping him as he went out of the door,
"perhaps it is all a mistake: do pray inquire from somebody else before
you speak to Mrs. Carver--she looks so good, she has been so kind to me,
I cannot believe that she is wicked. Do pray inquire of a great many
people before you knock at the door."

He promised that he would do all his daughter desired.

With most impatient anxiety they waited for his return: the time of his
absence appeared insupportably long, and they formed new fears and new
conjectures every instant. Every time they heard a footstep upon the
stairs, they ran out to see who it was: sometimes it was the
landlady--sometimes the lodgers or their visitors--at last came the
person they longed to see; but the moment they beheld him, all their
fears were confirmed. He was pale as death, and his lips trembled with
convulsive motion. He walked directly up to his loom, and without
speaking one syllable, began to cut the unfinished work out of it.

"What are you about, my dear?" cried his wife. "Consider what you are
about--this work of yours is the only dependence we have in the world."

"You have nothing in this world to depend upon, I tell you," cried he,
continuing to cut out the web with a hurried hand--"you must not depend
on me--you must not depend on my work--I shall never throw this shuttle
more whilst I live--think of me as if I was dead--to-morrow I shall be
dead to you--I shall be in a jail, and there must lie till carried out
in my coffin. Here, take this work just as it is to our landlady--she
met me on the stairs, and said she must have her rent directly--that
will pay her--I'll pay all I can. As for the loom, that's only
hired--the silk I bought to-day will pay the hire--I'll pay all my debts
to the uttermost farthing, as far as I am able--but the ten guineas to
that wicked woman I cannot pay--so I must rot in a jail. Don't cry,
Anne, don't cry so, my good girl--you'll break my heart, wife, if you
take on so. Why! have not we one comfort, that let us go out of this
world when we may, or how we may, we shall go out of it honest, having
no one's ruin to answer for, having done our duty to God and man, as far
as we are able?--My child," continued he, catching Anne in his arms, "I
have you safe, and I thank God for it!"

When this poor man had thus in an incoherent manner given vent to his
first feelings, he became somewhat more composed, and was able to relate
all that had passed between him and Mrs. Carver. The inquiries which he
made before he saw her sufficiently confirmed the orange-woman's story;
and when he returned the presents which Anne had unfortunately received,
Mrs. Carver, with all the audacity of a woman hardened in guilt, avowed
her purpose and her profession--declared that whatever ignorance and
innocence Anne or her parents might now find it convenient to affect,
she was "confident they had all the time perfectly understood what she
was about, and that she would not be cheated at last by a parcel of
swindling hypocrites." With horrid imprecations she then swore, that if
Anne was kept from her she would have vengeance--and that her vengeance
should know no bounds. The event showed that these were not empty
threats--the very next day she sent two bailiffs to arrest Anne's
father. They met him in the street, as he was going to pay the last
farthing he had to the baker. The wretched man in vain endeavoured to
move the ear of justice by relating the simple truth. Mrs. Carver was
rich--her victim was poor. He was committed to jail; and he entered his
prison with the firm belief, that there he must drag out the remainder
of his days.

One faint hope remained in his wife's heart--she imagined that if she
could but prevail upon Colonel Pembroke's servants, either to obtain for
her a sight of their master, or if they would carry to him a letter
containing an exact account of her distress, he would immediately pay
the fourteen pounds which had been so long due. With this money she
could obtain her husband's liberty, and she fancied all might yet be
well. Her son, who could write a very legible hand, wrote the petition.
"Ah, mother!" said he, "don't hope that Colonel Pembroke will read
it--he will tear it to pieces, as he did one that I carried him before."

"I can but try," said she; "I cannot believe that any gentleman is
so cruel, and so unjust--he must and will pay us when he knows the
whole truth."

Colonel Pembroke was dressing in a hurry, to go to a great dinner at the
Crown and Anchor tavern. One of Pembroke's gay companions had called,
and was in the room waiting for him. It was at this inauspicious time
that Mrs. White arrived. Her petition the servant at first absolutely
refused to take from her hands; but at last a young lad, whom the
colonel had lately brought from the country, and who had either more
natural feeling, or less acquired power of equivocating, than his
fellows, consented to carry up the petition, when he should, as he
expected, be called by his master to report the state of a favourite
horse that was sick. While his master's hair was dressing, the lad was
summoned; and when the health of the horse had been anxiously inquired
into, the lad with country awkwardness scratched his head, and laid the
petition before his master, saying--"Sir, there's a poor woman below
waiting for an answer; and if so be what she says is true, as I take it
to be, 'tis enough to break one's heart."

"Your heart, my lad, is not seasoned to London yet, I perceive," said
Colonel Pembroke, smiling; "why, your heart will be broke a thousand
times over by every beggar you meet."

"No, no; I be too much of a man for that," replied the groom, wiping his
eyes hastily with the back of his hand--"not such a noodle as that comes
to, neither--beggars are beggars, and so to be treated--but this woman,
sir, is no common beggar, not she; nor is she begging any ways--only to
be paid her bill--so I brought it, as I was coming up."

"Then, sir, as you are going down, you may take it down again, if you
please," cried Colonel Pembroke; "and in future, sir, I recommend it
to you to look after your horses, and to trust me to look after my
own affairs."

The groom retreated; and his master gave the poor woman's petition,
without reading it, to the hair-dresser, who was looking for a piece of
paper to try the heat of his irons.

"I should be pestered with bills and petitions from morning till
night, if I did not frighten these fellows out of the trick of
bringing them to me," continued Colonel Pembroke, turning to his
companion. "That blockhead of a groom is but just come to town; he
does not yet know how to drive away a dun--but he'll learn. They say
that the American dogs did not know how to bark, till they learnt it
from their civilized betters."

Colonel Pembroke habitually drove away reflection, and silenced the
whispers of conscience, by noisy declamation, or sallies of wit.

At the bottom of the singed paper, which the hair-dresser left on the
table, the name of White was sufficiently visible. "White!" exclaimed
Colonel Pembroke, "as I hope to live and breathe, these Whites have been
this half-year the torment of my life." He started up, rang the bell,
and gave immediate orders to his servant, that _these Whites_ should
never more be let in, and that no more of their bills and petitions in
any form whatever should be brought to him. "I'll punish them for their
insolence--I won't pay them one farthing this twelvemonth: and if the
woman is not gone, pray tell her so--I bid Close the tailor pay them: if
he has not, it is no fault of mine. Let me not hear a syllable more
about it--I'll part with the first of you who dares to disobey me."

"The woman is gone, I believe, sir," said the footman; "it was not I let
her in, and I refused to bring up the letter."

"You did right. Let me hear no more about the matter. We shall be late
at the Crown and Anchor. I beg your pardon, my dear friend, for
detaining you so long."

Whilst the colonel went to his jovial meeting, where he was the life and
spirit of the company, the poor woman returned in despair to the prison
where her husband was confined.

We forbear to describe the horrible situation to which this family were
soon reduced. Beyond a certain point, the human heart cannot feel
compassion.

One day, as Anne was returning from the prison, where she had been with
her father, she was met by a porter, who put a letter into her hands,
then turned down a narrow lane, and was out of sight before she could
inquire from whom he came. When she read the letter, however, she could
not be in doubt--it came from Mrs. Carver, and contained these words:--

"You can gain nothing by your present obstinacy--you are the cause of
your father's lying in jail, and of your mother's being as she is,
nearly starved to death. You can relieve them from misery worse than
death, and place them in ease and comfort for the remainder of their
days. Be assured, they do not speak sincerley to you, when they pretend
not to wish that your compliance should put an end to their present
sufferings. It is you that are cruel to them--it is you that are cruel
to yourself, and can blame nobody else. You might live all your days in
a house as good as mine, and have a plentiful table served from one
year's end to another, with all the dainties of the season, and you
might be dressed as elegantly as the most elegant lady in London (which,
by-the-bye, your beauty deserves), and you would have servants of your
own, and a carriage of your own, and nothing to do all day long but take
your pleasure. And after all, what is asked of you?--only to make a
person happy, whom half the town would envy you, that would make it a
study to gratify you in every wish of your heart. The person alluded to
you have seen, and more than once, when you have been talking to me of
work in my parlour. He is a very rich and generous gentleman. If you
come to Chiswell-street about six this evening, you will find all I say
true--if not, you and yours must take the consequences."

       *       *       *       *       *

Coarse as the eloquence of this letter may appear, Anne could not read
it without emotion: it raised in her heart a violent contest. Virtue,
with poverty and famine, were on one side--and vice, with affluence,
love, and every worldly pleasure, on the other.

Those who have been bred up in the lap of luxury; whom the breath of
heaven has never visited too roughly; whose minds from their earliest
infancy have been guarded even with more care than their persons; who in
the dangerous season of youth are surrounded by all that the solicitude
of experienced friends, and all that polished society, can devise for
their security; are not perhaps competent to judge of the temptations by
which beauty in the lower classes of life may be assailed. They who have
never seen a father in prison, or a mother perishing for want of the
absolute necessaries of life--they who have never themselves known the
cravings of famine, cannot form an adequate idea of this poor girl's
feelings, and of the temptation to which she was now exposed. She
wept--she hesitated--and "the woman that deliberates is lost." Perhaps
those who are the most truly virtuous of her sex will be the most
disposed to feel for this poor creature, who was literally half famished
before her good resolutions were conquered. At last she yielded to
necessity. At the appointed hour she was in Mrs. Carver's house. This
woman received her with triumph--she supplied Anne immediately with
food, and then hastened to deck out her victim in the most attractive
manner. The girl was quite passive in her hand. She promised, though
scarcely knowing that she uttered the words, to obey the instructions
that were given to her, and she suffered herself without struggle, or
apparent emotion, to be led to destruction. She appeared quite
insensible--but at last she was roused from this state of stupefaction,
by the voice of a person with whom she found herself alone. The
stranger, who was a young and gay gentleman, pleasing both in his person
and manners, attempted by every possible means to render himself
agreeable to her, to raise her spirits, and calm her apprehensions. By
degrees his manner changed from levity to tenderness. He represented to
her, that he was not a brutal wretch, who could be gratified by any
triumph in which the affections of the heart have no share; and he
assured her, that in any connexion which she might be prevailed upon to
form with him, she should be treated with honour and delicacy.

Touched by his manner of speaking, and overpowered by the sense of her
own situation, Anne could not reply one single word to all he said--but
burst into an agony of tears, and sinking on her knees before him,
exclaimed, "Save me! save me from myself!--Restore me to my parents,
before they have reason to hate me."

The gentleman seemed to be somewhat in doubt whether this was _acting_
or nature: but he raised Anne from the ground, and placed her upon a
seat beside him. "Am I to understand, then, that I have been deceived,
and that our present meeting is against your own consent?"

"No, I cannot say that--oh, how I wish that I could!--I did wrong, very
wrong, to come here--but I repent--I was half-starved--I have a father
in jail--I thought I could set him free with the money----but I will not
pretend to be better than I am--I believe I thought that, beside
relieving my father, I should live all my days without ever more knowing
what distress is--and I thought I should be happy--but now I have
changed my mind--I never could be happy with a bad conscience--I
know--by what I have felt this last hour."

Her voice failed; and she sobbed for some moments without being able to
speak. The gentleman, who now was convinced that she was quite artless
and thoroughly in earnest, was struck with compassion; but his
compassion was not unmixed with other feelings, and he had hopes that,
by treating her with tenderness, he should in time make it her wish to
live with him as his mistress. He was anxious to hear what her former
way of life had been; and she related, at his request, the circumstances
by which she and her parents had been reduced to such distress. His
countenance presently showed how much he was interested in her story--he
grew red and pale--he started from his seat, and walked up and down the
room in great agitation, till at last, when she mentioned the name of
Colonel Pembroke, he stopped short, and exclaimed, "I am the man--I am
Colonel Pembroke--I am that unjust, unfeeling wretch! How often, in the
bitterness of your hearts, you must have cursed me!"

"Oh, no--my father, when he was at the worst, never cursed you; and I am
sure he will have reason to bless you now, if you send his daughter back
again to him, such as she was when she left him."

"That shall be done," said Colonel Pembroke; "and in doing so, I
make some sacrifice, and have some merit. It is time I should make
some reparation for the evils I have occasioned," continued he,
taking a handful of guineas from his pocket: "but first let me pay
my just debts."

"My poor father!" exclaimed Anne; "to-morrow he will be out of prison."

"I will go with you to the prison, where your father is confined--I will
force myself to behold all the evils I have occasioned."

Colonel Pembroke went to the prison; and he was so much struck by the
scene, that he not only relieved the misery of this family, but in two
months afterwards his debts were paid, his race-horses sold, and all his
expenses regulated, so as to render him ever afterwards truly
independent. He no longer spent his days, like many young men of
fashion, either in DREADING or in DAMNING DUNS.

_Edgeworthstown_, 1802.


THE END.







End of Project Gutenberg's Tales and Novels, Vol. IV, by Maria Edgeworth





Produced by Jonathan Ingram, Tapio Riikonen
and PG Distributed Proofreaders




TALES AND NOVELS, VOL. V

MANOEUVRING; ALMERIA; AND VIVIAN. (TALES OF FASHIONABLE LIFE.)

BY

MARIA EDGEWORTH


IN TEN VOLUMES. WITH ENGRAVINGS ON STEEL.


1857.




MANOEUVRING.



CHAPTER I.

    "And gave her words, where oily Flatt'ry lays
    The pleasing colours of the art of praise."--PARNELL.


NOTE FROM MRS. BEAUMONT TO MISS WALSINGHAM.

"I am more grieved than I can express, my dearest Miss Walsingham, by a
cruel _contre-temps_, which must prevent my indulging myself in the
long-promised and long-expected pleasure of being at your _fête de
famille_ on Tuesday, to celebrate your dear father's birthday. I trust,
however, to your conciliating goodness, my kind young friend, to
represent my distress properly to Mr. Walsingham. Make him sensible, I
conjure you, that my _heart_ is with you all, and assure him that this
is no common apology. Indeed, I never employ such artifices with my
friends: to them, and to you in particular, my dear, I always speak with
perfect frankness and candour. Amelia, with whom, _entre nous_, you are
more a favourite than ever, is so much vexed and mortified by this
disappointment, that I see I shall not be restored to favour till I can
fix a day for going to you: yet when that may be, circumstances, which I
should not feel myself quite justified in mentioning, will not permit me
to decide.

"Kindest regards and affectionate remembrances to all your dear
circle.--Any news of the young captain? Any hopes of his return from
sea?

"Ever with perfect truth, my dearest Miss Walsingham's sincere friend,

"EUGENIA BEAUMONT.

"P.S.--Private--read to yourself.

"To be candid with you, my dear young friend, my secret reason for
denying myself the pleasure of Tuesday's fête is, that I have just
heard that there is a shocking chicken-pox in the village near you; and
I confess it is one of my weaknesses to dread even the bare rumour of
such a thing, on account of my Amelia: but I should not wish to have
this mentioned in your house, because you must be sensible your father
would think it an idle womanish fear; and you know how anxious I am for
his esteem.

"Burn this, I beseech you----

"Upon second thoughts, I believe it will be best to tell the truth, and
the whole truth, to your father, if you should see that nothing else
will do----In short, I write in haste, and must trust now, as ever,
entirely to your discretion."


"Well, my dear," said Mr. Walsingham to his daughter, as the young lady
sat at the breakfast table looking over this note, "how long do you
mean to sit the picture of The Delicate Embarrassment? To relieve you
as far as in me lies, let me assure you that I shall not ask to see
this note of Mrs. Beaumont's, which as usual seems to contain some
mighty mystery."

"No great mystery; only----"

"Only--some minikin mystery?" said Mr. Walsingham. "Yes, '_Elle est
politique pour des choux et des raves_.'--This charming widow Beaumont
is _manoeuvrer_.[1] We can't well make an English word of it. The
species, thank Heaven! is not so numerous yet in England as to require
a generic name. The description, however, has been touched by one of
our poets:

    'Julia's a manager: she's born for rule,
    And knows her wiser husband is a fool.
    For her own breakfast she'll project a scheme,
    Nor take her tea without a stratagem.'

Even from the time when Mrs. Beaumont was a girl of sixteen I remember
her manoeuvring to gain a husband, and then manoeuvring to manage him,
which she did with triumphant address."

"What sort of a man was Colonel Beaumont?"

"An excellent man; an open-hearted soldier, of the strictest honour and
integrity."

"Then is it not much in Mrs. Beaumont's favour, that she enjoyed the
confidence of such a man, and that he left her guardian to his son and
daughter?"

"If he had lived with her long enough to become acquainted with her real
character, what you say, my dear, would be unanswerable. But Colonel
Beaumont died a few years after his marriage, and during those few years
he was chiefly with his regiment."

"You will, however, allow," said Miss Walsingham, "that since his death
Mrs. Beaumont has justified his confidence.--Has she not been a good
guardian, and an affectionate mother?"

"Why--as a guardian, I think she has allowed her son too much liberty,
and too much money. I have heard that young Beaumont has lost a
considerable sum at Newmarket, I grant you that Mrs. Beaumont is an
affectionate mother, and I am convinced that she is extremely anxious to
advance the worldly interests of her children; still I cannot, my dear,
agree with you, that she is a good mother. In the whole course of the
education of her son and daughter, she has pursued a system of artifice.
Whatever she wanted them to learn, or to do, or to leave undone, some
stratagem, sentimental or scenic, was employed; somebody was to hint to
some other body to act upon Amelia to make her do so and so.
Nothing--that is, nothing like truth, ever came directly from the
mother: there were always whisperings and mysteries, and 'Don't say that
before Amelia!' and 'I would not have this told to Edward,' because it
might make him like something that she did not wish that he should like,
and that she had _her reasons_ for not letting him know that she did not
wish him to like. There was always some truth to be concealed for some
mighty good purpose; and things and persons were to be represented in
false lights, to produce on some particular occasion some partial
effect. All this succeeded admirably in detail, and for the management
of helpless, ignorant, credulous childhood. But mark the consequences
of this system: children grow up, and cannot always see, hear, and
understand, just as their mothers please. They will go into the world;
they will mix with others; their eyes will be opened; they will see
through the whole system of artifice by which their childhood was so
cleverly managed; and then, confidence in the parent must be destroyed
for ever."

Miss Walsingham acknowledged the truth of what her father said; but she
observed that this was a common error in education, which had the
sanction of high authority in its favour; even the eloquent Rousseau,
and the elegant and ingenious Madame de Genlis. "And it is certain,"
continued Miss Walsingham, "that Mrs. Beaumont has not made her children
artful; both Amelia and Mr. Beaumont are remarkably open, sincere,
honourable characters. Mr. Beaumont, indeed, carries his sincerity
almost to a fault: he is too blunt, perhaps, in his manner;--and Amelia,
though she is of such a timid, gentle temper, and so much afraid of
giving pain, has always courage enough to speak the truth, even in
circumstances where it is most difficult. So at least you must allow, my
dear father, that Mrs. Beaumont has made her children sincere."

"I am sorry, my dear, to seem uncharitable; but I must observe, that
sometimes the very faults of parents produce a tendency to opposite
virtues in their children: for the children suffer by the consequences
of these faults, and detecting, despise, and resolve to avoid them. As
to Amelia and Mr. Beaumont, their acquaintance with our family has been
no unfavourable circumstance in their education. They saw amongst us the
advantages of sincerity: they became attached to you, and to my
excellent ward Captain Walsingham; he obtained strong power over young
Beaumont's mind, and used it to the best purposes. Your friendship for
Amelia was, I think, equally advantageous to her: as you are nearly of
the same age, you had opportunities of winning her confidence; and your
stronger mind fortified hers, and inspired her timid character with the
courage necessary to be sincere."

"Well," persisted Miss Walsingham, "though Mrs. Beaumont may have used a
little _finesse_ towards her children in trifles, yet in matters of
consequence, I do think that she has no interest but theirs; and her
affection for them will make her lay aside all art, when their happiness
is at stake."

Mr. Walsingham shook his head.--"And do you then really believe, my dear
Marianne, that Mrs. Beaumont would consider any thing, for instance, in
the marriage of her son and daughter, but fortune, and what the world
calls _connexion and establishments_?"

"Certainly I cannot think that these are Mrs. Beaumont's first objects;
because we are people but of small fortune, and yet she prefers us to
many of large estates and higher station."

"You should say, she professes to prefer us," replied Mr. Walsingham.
"And do you really believe her to be sincere? Now, there is my ward,
Captain Walsingham, for whom she pretends to have such a regard, do you
think that Mrs. Beaumont wishes her daughter should marry him?"

"I do, indeed; but Mrs. Beaumont must speak cautiously on that subject;
this is prudence, not dissimulation: for you know that my cousin
Walsingham never declared his attachment to Miss Beaumont; on the
contrary, he always took the most scrupulous pains to conceal it from
her, because he had not fortune enough to marry, and he was too
honourable to attempt, or even to wish, to engage the affections of one
to whom he had no prospect of being united."

"He is a noble fellow!" exclaimed Mr. Walsingham. "There is no
sacrifice of pleasure or interest he would hesitate to make to his
duty. For his friends there is no exertion, no endurance, no
forbearance, of which he has not shown himself capable. For his
country----All I ask from Heaven for him is, opportunity to serve his
country. Whether circumstances, whether success, will ever prove his
merits to the world, I cannot foretell; but I shall always glory in him
as my ward, my relation, my friend."

"Mrs. Beaumont speaks of him just as you do," said Miss Walsingham.

"Speaks, but not thinks," said Mr. Walsingham. "No, no! Captain
Walsingham is not the man she desires for a son-in-law. She wants to
marry Amelia to Sir John Hunter."

"To Sir John Hunter!"

"Yes, to Sir John Hunter, a being without literature, without morals,
without even youth, to plead in his favour. He is nearly forty years
old, old enough to be Amelia's father; yet this is the man whom Mrs.
Beaumont prefers for the husband of her beloved daughter, because he is
heir presumptive to a great estate, and has the chance of a reversionary
earldom.--And this is your modern good mother."

"Oh, no, no!" cried Miss Walsingham, "you do Mrs. Beaumont injustice; I
assure you she despises Sir John Hunter as much as we do."

"Yet observe the court she has paid to the whole family of the Hunters."

"Yes, but that has been merely from regard to the late Lady Hunter, who
was her particular friend."

"_Particular friend!_ a vamped-up, sentimental conversation reason."

"But I assure you," persisted Miss Walsingham, "that I know Mrs.
Beaumont's mind better than you do, father, at least on this subject."

"You! a girl of eighteen, pretend to know a manoeuvrer of her age!"

"Only let me tell you my reasons.--It was but last week that Mrs.
Beaumont told me that she did not wish to encourage Sir John Hunter, and
that she should be perfectly happy if she could see Amelia united to
such a man as Captain Walsingham."

"Such a man as Captain Walsingham! nicely guarded expression!"

"But you have not heard all yet.--Mrs. Beaumont anxiously inquired
from me whether he had made any prize-money, whether there was any
chance of his returning soon; and she added, with particular emphasis,
'You don't know how much I wish it! You don't know what a favourite he
is of mine!'"

"That last, I will lay any wager," cried Mr. Walsingham, "she said in a
whisper, and in a corner."

"Yes, but she could not do otherwise, for Amelia was present. Mrs.
Beaumont took me aside."

"Aside; ay, ay, but take care, I advise you, of her _asides_, and her
whisperings, and her cornerings, and her inuendoes, and semiconfidences,
lest your own happiness, my dear, unsuspecting, enthusiastic daughter,
should be the sacrifice."

Miss Walsingham now stood perfectly silent, in embarrassed and
breathless anxiety.

"I see," continued her father, "that Mrs. Beaumont, for whose mighty
genius one intrigue at a time is not sufficient, wants also to persuade
you, my dear, that she wishes to have you for a daughter-in-law: and
yet all the time she is doing every thing she can to make her son marry
that fool, Miss Hunter, merely because she has two hundred thousand
pounds fortune."

"There I can assure you that you are mistaken," said Miss Walsingham;
"Mrs. Beaumont dreads that her son should marry Miss Hunter. Mrs.
Beaumont thinks her as silly as you do, and complained to me of her
having no taste for literature, or for any thing, but dress, and
trifling conversation."

"I wonder, then, that Mrs. Beaumont selects her continually for her
companion."

"She thinks Miss Hunter the most insipid companion in the world; but I
dare not tell you, lest you should laugh at me again, that it was for
the sake of the late Lady Hunter that Mrs. Beaumont was so kind to the
daughter; and now Miss Hunter is so fond of her, and so grateful, that,
as Mrs. Beaumont says, it would be cruelty to shake her off."

"Mighty plausible! But the truth of all this, begging Mrs. Beaumont's
pardon, I doubt; I will not call it a falsehood, but I may be permitted
to call it a _Beaumont_. Time will show: and in the mean time, my dear
daughter, be on your guard against Mrs. Beaumont's art, and against your
own credulity. The momentary pain I give my friends by speaking the
plain truth, I have always found overbalanced by the pleasure and
advantage of mutual confidence. Our domestic happiness has arisen
chiefly from our habits of openness and sincerity. Our whole souls are
laid open; there is no management, no '_intrigue de cabinet_, no
'_esprit de la ligue_.'"

Mr. Walsingham now left the room; and Miss Walsingham, absorbed in
reflections more interesting to her than even the defence of Mrs.
Beaumont, went out to walk. Her father's house was situated in a
beautiful part of Devonshire, near the sea-shore, in the neighbourhood
of Plymouth; and as Miss Walsingham was walking on the beach, she saw an
old fisherman mooring his boat to the projecting stump of a tree. His
figure was so picturesque, that she stopped to sketch it; and as she was
drawing, a woman came from the cottage near the shore to ask the
fisherman what luck he had had. "A fine turbot," says he, "and a
john-doree."

"Then away with them this minute to Beaumont Park," said the woman; "for
here's Madam Beaumont's man, Martin, called _in a flustrum_ while you
was away, to say madam must have the nicest of our fish, whatsomever it
might be, and a john-doree, if it could be had for love or money, for
Tuesday."--Here the woman, perceiving Miss Walsingham, dropped a curtsy.
"Your humble servant, Miss Walsingham," said the woman.

"On Tuesday?" said Miss Walsingham: "are you sure that Mrs. Beaumont
bespoke the fish for Tuesday?"

"Oh, _sartin_ sure, miss; for Martin mentioned, moreover, what he had
heard talk in the servants' hall, that there is to be a very _pettiklar_
old gentleman, as rich! as rich! as rich can be! from foreign parts, and
a great friend of the colonel that's dead; and he--that is, the old
_pettiklar_ gentleman--is to be down all the way from Lon'on to dine at
the park on Tuesday for _sartin_: so, husband, away with the john-doree
and the turbot, while they be fresh."

"But why," thought Miss Walsingham, "did not Mrs. Beaumont tell us the
plain truth, if this is the truth?"




CHAPTER II.

    "Young Hermes next, a close contriving god,
    Her brows encircled with his serpent rod;
    Then plots and fair excuses fill her brain,
    And views of breaking am'rous vows for gain."


The information which Mrs. Beaumont's man, Martin, had learned from the
servants' hall, and had communicated to the fisherman's wife, was more
correct, and had been less amplified, embellished, misunderstood, or
misrepresented, than is usually found to be the case with pieces of news
which are so heard and so repeated. It was true that Mrs. Beaumont
expected to see on Tuesday an old gentleman, a Mr. Palmer, who had been
a friend of her husband's; he had lately returned from Jamaica, where he
had made a large fortune. It is true, also, that this old gentleman was
_a little particular_, but not precisely in the sense in which the
fisherman's wife understood the phrase; he was not particularly fond of
john-dorees and turbots, but he was particularly fond of making his
fellow-creatures happy; particularly generous, particularly open and
honest in his nature, abhorring all artifice himself, and unsuspicious
of it in others. He was unacquainted with Mrs. Beaumont's character, as
he had been for many years in the West Indies, and he knew her only from
her letters, in which she appeared every thing that was candid and
amiable. His great friendship for her deceased husband also inclined him
to like her. Colonel Beaumont had appointed him one of the guardians of
his children, but Mr. Palmer, being absent from England, had declined to
act: he was also trustee to Mrs. Beaumont's marriage-settlement, and she
had represented that it was necessary he should be present at the
settlement of her family affairs upon her son's coming of age; an event
which was to take place in a few days. The urgent representations of
Mrs. Beaumont, and the anxious desire she expressed to see Mr. Palmer,
had at last prevailed with the good old gentleman to journey down to
Beaumont Park, though he was a valetudinarian, and though he was
obliged, he said, to return to Jamaica with the West India fleet, which
was expected to sail in ten days; so that he announced positively that
he could stay but a week at Beaumont Park with his good friends and
relations.

He was related but distantly to the Beaumonts, and he stood in precisely
the same degree of relationship to the Walsinghams. He had no other
relations, and his fortune was completely at his own disposal. On this
fortune our cunning widow had speculated long and deeply, though in fact
there was no occasion for art: it was Mr. Palmer's intention to leave
his large fortune to the Beaumonts; or to divide it between the Beaumont
and Walsingham families; and had she been sincere in her professed
desire of a complete union by a double marriage between the
representatives of the families, her favourite object would have been,
in either case, equally secure. Here was a plain, easy road to her
object; but it was too direct for Mrs. Beaumont. With all her abilities,
she could never comprehend the axiom that a right line is the shortest
possible line between any two points:--an axiom equally true in morals
and in mathematics. No, the serpentine line was, in her opinion, not
only the most beautiful, but the most expeditious, safe, and convenient.

She had formed a triple scheme of such intricacy, that it is necessary
distinctly to state the argument of her plot, lest the action should be
too complicated to be easily developed.

She had, in the first place, a design of engrossing the whole of Mr.
Palmer's fortune for her own family; and for this purpose she determined
to prevent Mr. Palmer from becoming acquainted with his other relations,
the Walsinghams, to whom she had always had a secret dislike, because
they were of remarkably open, sincere characters. As Mr. Palmer proposed
to stay but a week in the country, this scheme of preventing their
meeting seemed feasible.

In the second place, Mrs. Beaumont wished to marry her daughter to Sir
John Hunter, because Sir John was heir expectant to a large estate,
called the Wigram estate, and because there was in his family a certain
reversionary title, the earldom of Puckeridge, which would devolve to
Sir John after the death of a near relation.

In the third place, Mrs. Beaumont wished to marry her own son to Miss
Hunter, who was Sir John's sister by a second marriage, and above twenty
years younger than he was: this lady was preferred to Miss Walsingham
for a daughter-in-law, for the reasons which Mr. Walsingham had given;
because she possessed an independent fortune of two hundred thousand
pounds, and because she was so childish and silly that Mrs. Beaumont
thought she could always manage her easily, and by this means retain
power over her son. Miss Hunter was very pretty, and Mrs. Beaumont had
observed that her son had sometimes been struck with her beauty
sufficiently to give hopes that, by proper management, he might be
diverted from his serious, sober preference of Miss Walsingham.

Mrs. Beaumont foresaw many difficulties in the execution of these plans.
She knew that Amelia liked Captain Walsingham, and that Captain
Walsingham was attached to her, though he had never declared his love:
and she dreaded that Captain Walsingham, who was at this time at sea,
should return, just whilst Mr. Palmer was with her; because she was well
aware that the captain was a kind of man Mr. Palmer would infinitely
prefer to Sir John Hunter. Indeed, she had been secretly informed that
Mr. Palmer hated every one who had a title; therefore she could not,
whilst he was with her, openly encourage Sir John Hunter in his
addresses to Amelia. To conciliate these seemingly incompatible schemes,
she determined----But let our heroine speak for herself.

"My dearest Miss Hunter," said she, "now we are by ourselves, let me
open my mind to you; I have been watching for an opportunity these two
days, but so hurried as I have been!--Where's Amelia?"

"Out walking, ma'am. She told me you begged her to walk to get rid of
her head-ache; and that she might look well to-day, as Mr. Palmer is to
come. I would not go with her, because you whispered to me at breakfast
that you had something very particular to say to me."

"But you did not give _that_ as a reason, I hope! Surely you didn't
tell Amelia that I had something particular to say to you?"

"Oh, no, ma'am; I told her that I had something to do about my
dress--and so I had--my new hat to try on."

"True, my love; quite right; for you know I wouldn't have her suspect
that we had any thing to say to each other that we didn't wish her to
hear, especially as it is about herself."

"Herself!--Oh, is it?" said Miss Hunter, in a tone of disappointment.

"And about you, too, my darling. Be assured I have no daughter I love
better, or ever shall. With such a son as I have, and such a
daughter-in-law as I hope and trust I shall have ere long, I shall think
myself the most fortunate of mothers."

Silly Miss Hunter's face brightened up again. "But now, my love,"
continued Mrs. Beaumont, taking her hand, leading her to a window, and
speaking very low, though no one else was in the room, "before we talk
any more of what is nearest my heart, I must get you to write a note for
me to your brother, directly, for there is a circumstance I
forgot--thoughtless creature that I am! but indeed, I never can _think_
when I _feel_ much. Some people are always so collected and prudent. But
I have none of that!--Heigho! Well, my dear, you must supply my
deficiencies. You will write and tell Sir John, that in my agitation
when he made his proposal for my Amelia, of which I so frankly approved,
I omitted to warn him, that no hint must be given that I do any thing
more than permit him to address my daughter upon an equal footing with
any other gentleman who might address her. Stay, my dear; you don't
understand me, I see. In short, to be candid with you--old Mr. Palmer is
coming to-day, you know. Now, my dear, you must be aware that it is of
the greatest consequence to the interests of my family, of which I hope
you always consider yourself (for I have always considered you) as
forming a part, and a very distinguished part--I say, my darling, that
we must consider that it is our interest in all things to please and
humour this good old gentleman. He will be with us but for a week, you
know. Well, the point is this. I have been informed from undoubted
authority, people who were about him at the time, and knew, that the
reason he quarrelled with that nephew of his, who died two years ago,
was the young man's having accepted a baronetage: and at that time old
Palmer swore, that _no sprig of quality_--those were the very
words--should ever inherit a shilling of his money. Such a ridiculous
whim! But these London merchants, who make great fortunes from nothing,
are apt to have their little eccentricities; and then, they have so much
pride in their own way, and so much self-will and mercantile
downrightness in their manners, that there's no managing them but by
humouring their fancies. I'm convinced, if Mr. Palmer suspected that I
even wished Amelia to marry Sir John, he would never leave any of us a
farthing, and it would all go to the Walsinghams. So, my dear, do you
explain to your brother, that though I have not the least objection to
his coming here whilst Mr. Palmer is with us, he must not take umbrage
at any seeming coldness in my manner. He knows my heart, I trust; at
least, you do, my Albina. And even if I should be obliged to receive or
to go to see the Walsinghams, which, by-the-bye, I have taken means to
prevent; but if it should happen that they were to hear of Palmer's
being with us, and come, and Sir John should meet them, he must not he
surprised or jealous at my speaking in the highest terms of Captain
Walsingham. This I shall be obliged to do as a blind before Mr. Palmer.
I must make him believe that I prefer a commoner for my son-in-law, or
we are all undone with him. You know it is my son's interest, and yours,
as well as your brother's and Amelia's, that I consider. So explain all
this to him, my dear; you will explain it so much better, and make it so
much more palpable to your brother than I could."

"Dear Mrs. Beaumont, how can you think so? You who write so well, and
such long letters about every thing, and so quick! But goodness! I shall
never get it all into a letter I'm afraid, and before Mr. Palmer comes,
and then it will soon be dressing-time! La! I could say it all to John
in five minutes: what a pity he is not here to-day!"

"Well, my love, then suppose you were to go to him; as you so prudently
remark, things of this sort are always so much easier and better said
than written. And now I look at my watch, I see you cannot have time to
write a long letter, and to dress. So I believe, though I shall grieve
to lose you, I must consent to your going for this one day to your
brother's. My carriage and Williamson shall attend you," said Mrs.
Beaumont, ringing the bell to order the carriage; "but remember you
promise me now to come back, positively, to-morrow, or next day at
farthest, if I should not be able to send the carriage again to-morrow.
I would not, upon any account, have you away, if it can possibly be
helped, whilst Mr. Palmer is here, considering you as I do [The carriage
to the door directly, and Williamson to attend Miss Hunter]--considering
you as I do, my dearest Albina, quite as my own daughter."

"Oh, my dearest Mrs. Beaumont, you are so kind!" said the poor girl,
whom Mrs. Beaumont could always thus easily _pay with words_.

The carriage came to the door with such prompt obedience to Mrs.
Beaumont's summons, that one of a more reflecting or calculating nature
than Miss Hunter might have suspected that it had been ordered to be in
readiness to carry her away this morning.

"Fare ye well, my own Albina! be sure you don't stay long from us," said
Mrs. Beaumont, accompanying her to the hall-door. "A thousand kind
things to everybody, and your brother in particular. But, my dear Miss
Hunter, one word more," said she, following to the carriage door, and
whispering: "there's another thing that I must trust to your management
and cleverness;--I mentioned that Mr. Palmer was to know nothing of
_the approbation_ of Sir John's suit."

"Oh, yes, yes, ma'am, I understand perfectly."

"But stay, my love; you must understand, too, that it is to be quite a
secret between ourselves, not to be mentioned to my son even; for you
know he is sudden in his temper, and warm and quite in the Walsingham
interest, and there's no knowing what might be the consequence if it
were to be let out imprudently, and Sir John and Edward both so
high-spirited. One can't be too cautious, my dear, to prevent mischief
between gentlemen. So caution your brother to leave it to me to break
it, and bring things about with Edward and Amelia,"--[stopping Miss
Hunter again as she made a second effort to get into the carriage,]--
"You comprehend, my dear, that Amelia is not in the secret yet--so not
a word from your brother to her about _my approbation!_--that would
ruin all. I trust to his honour; and besides--" drawing the young lady
back for the third whisper.--Miss Hunter stood suspended with one foot
in air, and the other on the step; the coachman, impatient to be off,
manoeuvred to make his horses restless, whilst at the same time he cried
aloud--"So! so! Prancer--stand still, Peacock; stand still, sir!"

Miss Hunter jumped down on terra firma. "Those horses frighten me so for
you, my dear!" said Mrs. Beaumont. "Martin, stand at their heads. My
dear child, I won't detain you, for you'll be late. I had only to say,
that--oh! that I trust implicitly to your brother's honour; but, besides
this, it will not be amiss for you to hint, as you know you can
delicately--_delicately_, you understand--that it is for his interest to
leave me to manage every thing. Yet none of this is to be said _as if
from me_--pray don't let it come from me. Say it all from yourself.
Don't let my name be mentioned at all. Don't commit me, you understand?"

"Perfectly, perfectly, ma'am: one kiss, dear Mrs. Beaumont, and adieu.
Is my dressing-box in? Tell him to drive fast, for I hate going slow.
Dearest Mrs. Beaumont, good bye. I feel as if I were going for an age,
though it is only for one day."

"Dear, affectionate girl! I love _heart_--Good bye--Drive fast, as Miss
Hunter desires you."

Our fair politician, well satisfied with the understanding of her
confidante, which never comprehended more than met the ear, and secure
in a chargé d'affaires, whose powers it was never necessary to limit,
stood on the steps before the house-door, deep in reverie, for some
minutes after the carriage had driven away, till she was roused by
seeing her son returning from his morning's ride.




CHAPTER III.

    "Will you hear a Spanish lady,
    How she woo'd an English man?
    Garments gay as rich as may be,
    Deck'd with jewels, she had on."
                    THE SPANISH LADY'S LOVE.
    _Percy's Reliques of Ancient Poetry_


Mr. Beaumont had just been at a neighbouring farm-house, where there
lived one of Mr. Walsingham's tenants; a man of the name of Birch, a
respectable farmer, who was originally from Ireland, and whose son was
at sea with Captain Walsingham. The captain had taken young Birch under
his particular care, at Mr. Walsingham's request.

Birch's parents had this day received a letter from their son, which in
the joy and pride of their hearts they showed to Mr. Beaumont, who was
in the habit of calling at their house to inquire if they had heard any
news of their son, or of Captain Walsingham. Mr. Beaumont liked to read
Birch's letters, because they were written with characteristic
simplicity and affection, and somewhat in the Irish idiom, which this
young sailor's English education had not made him entirely forget.


LETTER FROM BIRCH TO HIS PARENTS.

"H.M.S. l'Ambuscade.

"HONOURED PARENTS,

"I write this from sea, lat. N. 44.15--long. W. 9.45--wind N.N.E.--to
let you know you will not see me so soon as I said in my last, of the
16th. Yesterday, P.M. two o'clock, some despatches were brought to my
good captain, by the Pickle sloop, which will to-morrow, wind and
weather permitting, alter our destination. What the nature of them is I
cannot impart to you, for it has not transpired beyond the lieutenants;
but whatever I do under the orders of my good captain, I am satisfied
and confident all is for the best. For my own share, I long for an
opportunity of fighting the French, and of showing the captain _what is
in me_, and that the pains he has took to make a gentleman, and an
honour to his majesty's service, of me, is not thrown away. Had he been
my own father, or brother, he could not be better, or _done more_. God
willing, I will never disgrace his principles, for it would be my
ambition to be like him in every respect; and he says, if I behave
myself as I ought, I shall soon be a lieutenant; and a lieutenant in his
majesty's navy is as good a gentleman as any in England, and has a right
(tell my sister Kitty) to hand the first woman in Lon'on out of her
carriage, if he pleases, and if she pleases.

"Now we talk of ladies, and as please God we shall soon be in action,
and may not have another opportunity of writing to you this great while,
for there is talk of our sailing southward with the fleet to bring the
French and Spaniards to action, I think it best to send you all the news
I have in this letter. But pray bid Kate, with my love, mind this, that
not a word of the following is to take wind for her life, on account of
my not knowing if it might be agreeable, or how it might affect my good
captain, and others that shall be nameless. You must know then that when
we were at ----, where we were stationed six weeks and two days, waiting
for the winds, and one cause or other, we used to employ ourselves, I
and my captain, taking soundings (which I can't more particularly
explain the nature of to you, especially in a letter); for he always
took me out to attend him in preference to any other; and after he had
completed his soundings, and had no farther use for me in that job, I
asked him leave to go near the same place in the evening to fish, which
my good captain consented to (as he always does to what (duty done) can
gratify me), provided I was in my ship by ten. Now you must know that
there are convents in this country (which you have often heard of,
Kitty, no doubt), being damnable places, where young _Catholic_ women
are shut up unmarried, often, it is to be reasonably supposed, against
their wills. And there is a convent in one of the suburbs which has a
high back wall to the garden of it that comes down near the strand; and
it was under this wall we two used to sound, and that afterwards I used
to be fishing. And one evening, when I was not thinking of any such
thing, there comes over the wall a huge nosegay of flowers, with a stone
in it, that made me jump. And this for three evenings running the same
way, about the same hour; till at last one evening as I was looking up
at the wall, as I had now learned to do about the time the nosegays were
thrown over, I saw coming down a stone tied to a string, and to the
stone a letter, the words of which I can't particularly take upon me to
recollect, because I gave up the paper to my captain, who desired it of
me, and took no copy; but the sense was, that in that convent there was
shut up a lady, the daughter of an English gentleman by a Spanish wife,
both her parents being dead, and her Spanish relations and
father-confessor (or catholic priest of a man), not wishing she should
get to England, where she might be what she had a right to be by birth,
at least by her father's side (a _protestant_), shut her up since she
was a child. And that there was a relative of hers in England, who with
a wicked lawyer or attorney had got possession of her estate, and made
every body believe she was dead. And so, it being seven years and more
since she was heard of, she is what is called dead in law, which sort of
death however won't signify, if she appears again. Wherefore the letter
goes on to say, she would be particularly glad to make her escape, and
get over to old England. But she confesses that she is neither young nor
handsome, and may-be never may be rich; therefore, that whoever helps
her must do it for the sake of doing good and nothing else; for though
she would pay all expenses handsomely, she could not promise more. And
that she knew the danger of the undertaking to be great; greater for
them that would carry her off even than for herself. That she knows,
however, that British sailors are brave as they are generous (this part
of the letter was very well indited, and went straight to my heart the
minute ever I read it); and she wished it could be in the power of
Captain Walsingham to take her under his immediate protection, and that
she had taken measures so as she could escape over the wall of the
garden if he would have a boat in readiness to carry her to his ship;
and at the same hour next evening the stone should be let down as usual,
and he might fasten his answer to it, which would be drawn up in due
course. Concluding all this with, 'That she would not go at all unless
Captain Walsingham came for her himself (certifying himself to be
himself, I suppose), for she knew him to be a gentleman by reputation,
and she should be safe under his protection, and so would her secret,
she was confident, at all events.' This was the entire and sum total of
the letter. So when I had read to the end, and looked for the postscript
and all, I found for my pains that the lady mistook me for my captain,
or would not have written or thrown the nosegays. So I took the letter
to my captain; and what he answered, and how it was settled (by signals,
I suppose) between them after, it was not for me to inquire. Not a word
more was said by him to me or I to him on the topic, till the very night
we were to sail for England. It was then that our captain took me aside,
and he says, 'Birch, will you assist me? I ask this not as your captain,
so you are at liberty to do as you please. Will you help me to rescue
this lady, who seems to be unjustly detained, and to carry her back safe
to her country and her friends?' I told him I would do that or any thing
else he bid me, confident he would never ask me to do a wrong thing; and
as to the lady, I should be proud to help to carry her off to old
England and her lawful friends, only I thought (if I might be so bold)
it was a pity she was not young and handsome, for his sake. At that he
smiled, and only said, 'Perhaps it was best for him as it was.' Then he
settled about the boat, and who were to go, and when. It was twelve
o'clock striking by the great town clock when we were under the walls of
the convent, as appointed. And all was hush and silent as the grave for
our very lives. For it was a matter of life or death, I promise you, and
we all knew as much, and the sailors had a dread of the Inquisition upon
them that was beyond all terrible! So we watched and waited, and waited
and watched so long, that we thought something must have gone wrong, or
that all was found out, and the captain could not delay the ship's
sailing; and he struck his repeater, and it was within a quarter of one,
and he said, 'It is too late; we must put back.' Just then, I, that was
watching with the lantern in my hand, gave notice, and first there comes
down a white bundle, fastened to the stone and cord. Then the captain
and I fixed the ladder of ropes, and down came the lady, as well as ever
she went up, and not a word but away with her: the captain had her in a
trice in our boat, safe and snug, and off we put, rowing for the bare
life, all silent as ever. I think I hear the striking of our oars and
the plashing of the water this minute, which we would have gladly
silenced, but could not any way in nature. But none heard it, or at
least took any notice against us. I can give you no idea of the terror
which the lady manifested when the boat stood out to sea, at the
slightest squall of wind, or the least agitation of the waves; for
besides being naturally cowardly, as all or most women are for the first
time at sea, here was a poor soul who had been watching, and may be
fasting, and worn out mind and body with the terror of perfecting her
escape from the convent, where she had been immured all her life, and as
helpless as a child. So it was wonderful she went through it as well as
she did and without screaming, which should be an example to Kate and
others. Glad enough even we men were when we reached the ship. There
was, at that time, a silence on board you could have heard a pin drop,
all being in perfect readiness for getting under way, the sails ready
for dropping, and officers and sailors waiting in the greatest
expectation of our boat's return. Our boat passed swiftly alongside, and
great beyond belief was the astonishment of all at seeing a woman
veiled, hoisted out, and in, and ushered below, half fainting. I never
felt more comfortable in my life than when we found her and ourselves
safe aboard l'Ambuscade. The anchor was instantly weighed, all sail
made, and the ship stood out to sea. To the lady the captain gave up his
cabin: double sentries were placed, and as the captain ordered, every
precaution that could shield her character in such suspicious
circumstances were enforced with the utmost punctilio. I cannot
describe, nor can you even conceive, Kate, the degree of curiosity shown
about her; all striving to get a sight of her when she first went down,
and most zealous they were to bring lights; but that would not do, for
they could not see her for her veil. Yet through all we could make out
that she was a fine figure of a woman at any rate, and something more
than ordinary, from the air she had with her. The next day when she was
sitting on deck the wind by times would blow aside her veil so as to
give us glimpses of her face; when, to our surprise, and I am sure to
the captain's satisfaction, we found she was beyond all contradiction
young and handsome. And moreover I have reason to believe she has fine
jewels with her, besides a ring from her own finger, which with a very
pretty action she put on his, that next day on deck, as I noticed, when
nobody was minding. So that no doubt she is as much richer as she is
handsomer than she made believe, contrary to the ways of other women,
which is in her favour and my good captain's; for from what I can judge,
after all he has done for her, she has no dislike nor objection to him.

"I have not time to add any thing more, but my love to Kitty, and Nancy,
and Tom, and Mary, and little Bess; and, honoured parents, wishing you
good health as I am in, thank God, at this present,

"I am your dutiful and loving son,

"JOHN BIRCH.

"P.S. I open my letter to tell you we are going southward immediately,
all in high spirits, as there is hopes of meeting the French and
Spaniards. We have just hoisted the nun-lady on board an English packet.
God send her and this letter safe to England."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. Beaumont might perhaps have been amused by this romantic story, and
by the style in which it was told, if he had not been alarmed by the
hint at the conclusion of the letter, that the lady was not indifferent
to her deliverer. Now Mr. Beaumont earnestly wished that his friend
Captain Walsingham might become his brother-in-law; and he began to have
fears about this Spanish lady, with her gratitude, her rings, and the
advantages of the great interest her misfortunes and helpless condition
would excite, together with the vast temptations to fall in love that
might occur during the course of a voyage. Had he taken notice of the
postscript, his mind would have been somewhat relieved. On this subject
Mr. Beaumont pondered all the way that he rode home, and on this subject
he was still meditating when he saw his mother standing on the steps,
where we left her when Miss Hunter's carriage drove away.




CHAPTER IV.

    "I shall in all my best obey you, madam."
                                        HAMLET.


"Did you meet Miss Hunter, my dear son?" said she.

"Yes, ma'am, I just passed the carriage in the avenue: she is going
home, is not she?" said he, rather in a tone of satisfaction.

"Ah, poor thing! yes," said Mrs. Beaumont, in a most pathetic tone: "ah,
poor thing!"

"Why, ma'am, what has happened to her? What's the matter?"

"Matter? Oh, nothing!--Did I say that any thing was the matter? Don't
speak so loud," whispered she: "your groom heard every word we said;
stay till he is out of hearing, and then we can talk."

"I don't care if all the world hears what I say," cried Mr. Beaumont
hastily: but, as if suppressing his rising indignation, he, with a
milder look and tone, added, "I cannot conceive, my dear mother, why you
are always so afraid of being overheard."

"Servants, my dear, make such mischief, you know, by misunderstanding
and misrepresenting every thing they hear; and they repeat things so
oddly, and raise such strange reports!"

"True--very true indeed, ma'am," said Mr. Beaumont. "You are quite
right, and I beg pardon for being so hasty--I wish you could teach me a
little of your patience and prudence."

"Prudence! ah! my dear Edward, 'tis only time and sad experience of the
world can teach that to people of _our_ open tempers. I was at your age
ten times more imprudent and unsuspicious than you are."

"Were you, ma'am?--But I don't think I am unsuspicious. I was when I was
a boy--I wish we could continue children always in some things. I hate
suspicion in any body--but more than in any one else, I hate it in
myself. And yet--"

Mr. Beaumont hesitated, and his mother instantly went on with a fluent
panegyric upon the hereditary unsuspiciousness of his temper.

"But, madam, were you not saying something to me about Miss Hunter?"

"Was I?--Oh, I was merely going to say, that I was sorry you did not
know she was going this morning, that you might have taken leave of her,
poor thing!"

"Take leave of her! ma'am: I bowed to her, and wished her a good
morning, when I met her just now, and she told me she was only going to
the hall for a day. Surely no greater leave-taking was requisite, when I
am to see the lady again to-morrow, I presume."

"That is not quite so certain as she thinks, poor soul! I told her I
would send for her again to-morrow, just to keep up her spirits at
leaving me. Walk this way, Edward, under the shade of the trees, for I
am dead with the heat; and you, too, look so hot! I say I am not so sure
that it would be prudent to have her here so much, especially whilst Mr.
Palmer is with us, you know--" Mrs. Beaumont paused, as if waiting for
an assent, or a dissent, or a leading hint how to proceed: but her son
persisting in perverse silence, she was forced to repeat, "You know,
Edward, my dear, you know?"

"I don't know, indeed, ma'am."

"You don't know!"

"Faith, not I, ma'am. I don't know, for the soul of me, what Mr.
Palmer's coming has to do with Miss Hunter's going. There's room enough
in the house, I suppose, for each of them, and all of us to play our
parts. As to the rest, the young lady's coming or going is quite a
matter of indifference to me, except, of course, as far as politeness
and hospitality go. But all that I leave to you, who do the honours for
me so well."

Mrs. Beaumont's ideas were utterly thrown out of their order by this
speech, no part of which was exactly what she wished or expected: not
that any of the sentiments it contained or suggested were new to her;
but she was not prepared to meet them thus clothed in distinct words,
and in such a compact form. She had drawn up her forces for battle in an
order which this unexpectedly decisive movement of the enemy
discomfited; and a less able tactician might have been, in these
circumstances, not only embarrassed, but utterly defeated: yet, however
unprepared for this sudden shock, with admirable generalship our female
Hannibal, falling back in the centre, admitted him to advance impetuous
and triumphant, till she had him completely surrounded.

"My being of age in a few days," continued Mr. Beaumont, "will not make
any difference, surely; I depend upon it, that you will always invite
whomever you like to this house, of which I hope, my dear mother, you
will always do me the favour to be the mistress--till I marry, at least.
For my wife's feelings," added he, smiling, "I can't engage, before I
have her."

"And before we know who she is to be," said Mrs. Beaumont, carelessly.
"Time enough, as you say, to think of that. Besides, there are few women
in the world, I know scarcely one, with whom, in the relation of mother
and daughter-in-law, I should wish to live. But wherever I live, my dear
son, as long as I have a house, I hope you will always do me the justice
and the pleasure to consider yourself as its master. Heaven knows I
shall never give any other man a right to dispute with you the
sovereignty of my castle, or my cottage, whichever it may be. As to the
rest," pursued Mrs. Beaumont, "you cannot marry against my wishes, my
dear Edward; for your wishes on this, as on all other subjects, will
ever govern mine."

Her son kissed her hand with warm gratitude.

"You will not, I hope, think that I seek to prolong my regency, or to
assume undue power or influence in affairs," continued Mrs. Beaumont,
"if I hint to you in general terms what I think may contribute to your
happiness. You must afterwards decide for yourself; and are now, as you
have ever been, master, to do as you please."

"Too much--too much. I have had too much liberty, and have too little
acquired the habit of commanding my will and my passions by my reason.
Of this I am sensible. My excellent friend, Captain Walsingham, told me,
some years ago, that this was the fault of my character, and he charged
me to watch over myself; and so I have; but not so strictly, I fear, as
if he had watched along with me.----Well, ma'am, you were going to give
me some advice; I am all attention."

"My dear son, Captain Walsingham showed his judgment more, perhaps, in
pointing out causes than effects. The weakness of a fond mother, I am
sensible, did indulge you in childhood, and, perhaps, more imprudently
in youth, with an unlimited liberty to judge and act for yourself. Your
mother's system of education came, alas! more from her heart than her
head. Captain Walsingham himself cannot be more sensible of my errors
than I am."

"Captain Walsingham, believe me, mother, never mentioned this in
reproach to you. He is not a man to teach a son to see his mother's
errors--if she had any. He always spoke of you with the greatest
respect. And since I must, at my own expense, do him justice, it was, I
well remember, upon some occasion where I spoke too hastily, and
insisted upon my will in opposition to yours, madam, that Captain
Walsingham took me aside, and represented to me the fault into which my
want of command over myself had betrayed me. This he did so forcibly,
that I have never from that hour to this (I flatter myself) on any
material occasion, forgotten the impression he made on my mind. But,
madam, I interrupt you: you were going to give me your advice about--"

"No, no--no advice--no advice; you are, in my opinion, fully adequate to
the direction of your own conduct. I was merely going to suggest, that,
since you have not been accustomed to control from a mother, and since
you have, thank Heaven! a high spirit, that would sooner break than
bend, it must be essential to your happiness to have a wife of a
compliant, gentle temper; not fond of disputing the right, or attached
to her own opinions; not one who would be tenacious of rule, and
unseasonably inflexible."

"Unseasonably inflexible! Undoubtedly, ma'am. Yet I should despise a
mean-spirited wife."

"I am sure you would. But compliance that proceeds from affection, you
know, can never deserve to be called mean-spirited--nor would it so
appear to you. I am persuaded that there is a degree of fondness, of
affection, enthusiastic affection, which disposes the temper always to a
certain softness and yieldingness, which, I conceive, would be
peculiarly attractive to you, and essential to your happiness: in short,
I know your temper could not bear contradiction."

"Oh, indeed, ma'am, you are quite mistaken."

"Quite mistaken! and at the very moment he reddens with anger, because I
contradict, even in the softest, gentlest manner in my power, his
opinion of himself!"

"You don't understand me, indeed, you don't understand me," said Mr.
Beaumont, beating with his whip the leaves of a bush which was near him.
"Either you don't understand me, or I don't understand you. I am much
more able to bear contradiction than you think I am, provided it be
direct. But I do not love--what I am doing at this instant," added he,
smiling--"I don't love beating about the bush."

"Look there now!--Strange creatures you men are! So like he looks to his
poor father, who used to tell me that he loved to be contradicted, and
yet who would not, I am sure, have lived three days with any woman who
had ventured to contradict him directly. Whatever influence I obtained
in his heart, and whatever happiness we enjoyed in our union, I
attribute to my trusting to my observations on his character rather than
to his own account of himself. Therefore I may be permitted to claim
some judgment of what would suit your hereditary temper."

"Certainly, ma'am, certainly. But to come to the point at once, may I
ask this plain question--Do you, by these reflections, mean to allude to
any particular persons? Is there any woman in the world you at this
instant would wish me to marry?"

"Yes--Miss Walsingham."

Mr. Beaumont started with joyful surprise, when his mother thus
immediately pronounced the very name he wished to hear.

"You surprise and delight me, my dear mother!"

"Surprise!--How can that be?--Surely you must know my high opinion of
Miss Walsingham. But----"

"But--you added _but_----"

"There is no woman who may not be taxed with a _but_--yet it is not for
her friend to lower her merit. My only objection to her is--I shall
infallibly affront you, if I name it."

"Name it! name it! You will not affront me."

"My only objection to her then is, her superiority. She is so superior,
that, forgive me, I don't know any man, yourself not excepted, who is at
all her equal."

"I think precisely as you do, and rejoice."

"Rejoice? why there I cannot sympathize with you. I own, as a mother, I
should feel a little--a little mortified to see my son not the superior;
and when the comparison is to be daily and hourly made, and to last for
life, and all the world to see it as well as myself. I own I have a
mother's vanity. I should wish to see my son always what he has hitherto
been--the superior, and master in his own house."

Mr. Beaumont made no reply to these insinuations, but walked on in
silence; and his mother, unable to determine precisely whether the
vexation apparent in his countenance proceeded from disapprobation of
her observations, or from their working the effect she desired upon his
pride, warily waited till he should betray some decisive symptom of his
feelings. But she waited in vain--he was resolved not to speak.

"There is not a woman upon earth I should wish so much to have as a
daughter-in-law, a companion, and a friend, as Miss Walsingham. You must
be convinced," resumed Mrs. Beaumont, "so far as I am concerned, it is
the most desirable thing in the world. But I should think it my duty to
put my own feelings and wishes out of the question, and to make myself
prefer whomsoever, all things considered, my judgment tells me would
make you the happiest."

"And whom would your judgment prefer, madam?"

"Why--I am not at liberty to tell--unless I could explain all my
reasons. Indeed, I know not what to say."

"Dear madam, explain all your reasons, or we shall never understand one
another, and never come to an end of these half explanations."

Here they were interrupted by seeing Mr. Twigg, a courtly clergyman,
coming towards them. Beaumont was obliged to endure his tiresome
flattery upon the beauties of Beaumont Park, and upon the judicious
improvements that were making, had been made, and would, no doubt, be
very soon made. Mrs. Beaumont, at last, relieved his or her own
impatience by commissioning Mr. Twigg to walk round the improvements
by himself. By himself she insisted it should be, that she might have
his unbiassed judgment upon the two lines which had been marked for
the new belt or screen; and he was also to decide whether they should
call it a belt or a screen.--Honoured with this commission, he struck
off into the walk to which Mrs. Beaumont pointed, and began his
solitary progress.

Mr. Beaumont then urged his mother to go on with her explanation. Mrs.
Beaumont thought that she could not hazard much by flattering the vanity
of a man on that subject on which perhaps it is most easily flattered;
therefore, after sufficient delicacy of circumlocution, she informed her
son that there was a young lady who was actually dying for love of him;
whose extreme fondness would make her live but in him; and who, besides
having a natural ductility of character, and softness of temper, was
perfectly free from any formidable superiority of intellect, and had the
most exalted opinion of his capacity, as well as of his character and
accomplishments; in short, such an enthusiastic adoration, as would
induce that belief in the infallibility of a husband, which must secure
to him the fullest enjoyment of domestic peace, power, and pre-eminence.

Mr. Beaumont seemed less moved than his mother had calculated that the
vanity of man must be, by such a declaration--discovery it could not be
called. "If I am to take all this seriously, madam," replied he,
laughing, "and if, _au pied de la lettre_ my vanity is to believe that
this damsel is dying for love; yet, still I have so little chivalry in
my nature, that I cannot understand how it would add to my happiness to
sacrifice myself to save her life. That I am well suited to her, I am as
willing as vanity can make me to believe; but how is it to be proved
that the lady is suited to me?"

"My dear, these things do not admit of logical proof."

"Well--moral, sentimental, or any kind of proof you please."

"Have you no pity? and is not pity akin to love?"

"Akin! Oh, yes, ma'am, it is akin; but for that very reason it may not
be a friend--relations, you know, in these days, are as often enemies
as friends."

"Vile pun! far-fetched quibble!--provoking boy!--But I see you are not
in a humour to be serious, so I will take another time to talk to you of
this affair."

"Now or never, ma'am, for mercy's sake!"

"Mercy's sake! you who show none--Ah! this is the way with you men; all
this is play to you, but death to us."

"Death! dear ma'am; ladies, you know as well as I do, don't die of love
in these days--you would not make a fool of your son."

"I could not; nor could any other woman--that is clear: but amongst us,
I am afraid we have, undesignedly indeed, but irremediably, made a fool
of this poor confiding girl."

"But, ma'am, in whom did she confide? not in me, I'll swear. I have
nothing to reproach myself with, thank God!--My conscience is clear; I
have been as ungallant as possible. I have been as cruel as my nature
would permit. I am sure no one can charge me with giving false
promises--I scarcely speak--nor false hopes, for I scarcely look at the
young lady."

"So, then, you know who the young lady in question is?"

"Perhaps I ought not to pretend to know."

"That would be useless affectation, alas! for I fear many know, and have
seen, and heard, much more than you have--or I either."

Here Mrs. Beaumont observed that her son's colour changed, and that he
suddenly grew serious: aware that she had now touched upon the right
chord, she struck it again "with a master's hand and prophet's fire."
She declared that all the world took it for granted that Miss Hunter was
to be married to Mr. Beaumont; that it was talked of every where; that
she was asked continually by her correspondents, when the marriage was
to take place?--in confirmation of which assertion, she produced bundles
of letters from her pockets, from Mrs. and Miss, and from Lady This, and
Lady That.

"Nay," continued she, "if it were confined even to the circle of one's
private friends and acquaintance, I should not so much mind it, for one
might contradict, and have it contradicted, and one might send the poor
thing away to some watering-place, and the report might die away, as
reports do--sometimes. But all that sort of thing it is too late to
think of now--for the thing is public! quite public! got into the
newspapers! Here's a paragraph I cut out this very morning from my
paper, lest the poor girl should see it. The other day, I believe you
saw it yourself, there was something of the same sort. 'We hear that, as
soon as he comes of age, Mr. Beaumont, of Beaumont Park, is to lead to
the altar of Hymen, Miss Hunter, sister to Sir John Hunter, of
Devonshire.' Well,--after you left the room, Albina took up the paper
you had been reading; and when she saw this paragraph, I thought she
would have dropped. I did not know what to do. Whatever I could say, you
know, would only make it worse. I tried to turn it off, and talked of
twenty things; but it would not do--no, no, it is too serious for that:
well, though I believe she would rather have put her hand in the fire,
she had the courage to speak to me about it herself."

"And what did she say, ma'am?" inquired Mr. Beaumont, eagerly.

"Poor simple creature! she had but one idea--that you had seen it! that
she would not for the world you had read it. What would you think of
her--she should never be able to meet you again--What could she do? It
must be contradicted--somebody must contradict it. Then she worried me
to have it contradicted in the papers. I told her I did not well know
how that could be done, and urged that it would be much more prudent not
to fix attention upon the parties by more paragraphs. But she was _not_
in a state to think of prudence;--_no_. What would you think was the
only idea in her mind?--If I would not write, she would write that
minute herself, and sign her name. This, and a thousand wild things, she
said, till I was forced to be quite angry, and to tell her she must be
governed by those who had more discretion than herself. Then she was so
subdued, so ashamed--really my heart bled for her, even whilst I scolded
her. But it is quite necessary to be harsh with her; for she has no more
foresight, nor art, nor command of herself sometimes, than a child of
five years old. I assure you, I was rejoiced to get her away before Mr.
Palmer came, for a new eye coming into a family sees so much one
wouldn't wish to be seen. You know it would be terrible to have the poor
young creature _commit_ and expose herself to a stranger so early in
life. Indeed, as it is, I am persuaded no one will ever think of
marrying her, if you do not.----In worldly prudence--but of that she has
not an atom--in worldly prudence she might do better, or as well,
certainly; for her fortune will be very considerable. Sir John means to
add to it, when he gets the Wigram estate; and the old uncle, Wigram,
can't live for ever. But poor Albina, I dare swear, does not know what
fortune she is to have, nor what you have. Love! love! all for
love!--and all in vain. She is certainly very much to be pitied."

Longer might Mrs. Beaumont have continued in monologue, without danger
of interruption from her son, who stood resolved to hear the utmost sum
of all that she should say on the subject. Never interrupting her, he
only filled certain pauses, that seemed expectant of reply, with the
phrases--"I am very sorry, indeed, ma'am"--and, "Really, ma'am, it is
out of my power to help it." But Mrs. Beaumont observed that the latter
phrase had been omitted as she proceeded--and "_I am very sorry indeed,
ma'am,_" he repeated less as words of course, and more and more as if
they came from the heart. Having so far, successfully, as she thought,
worked upon her son's good-nature, and seeing her daughter through the
trees coming towards them, she abruptly exclaimed, "Promise me, at all
events, dearest Edward, I conjure you; promise me that you will not make
proposals _any where else_, without letting me know of it
beforehand,--and give me time," joining her hands in a supplicating
attitude, "give me but a few weeks, to prepare my poor little Albina for
this sad, sad stroke!"

"I promise you, madam, that I will not, directly or indirectly, make an
offer of my hand or heart to any woman, without previously letting you
know my determination. And as for a few weeks, more or less--my mother,
surely, need not supplicate, but simply let me know her wishes--even
without her reasons, they would have been sufficient with me. Do I
satisfy you now, madam?"

"More than satisfy--as you ever do, ever will, my dear son."

"But you will require no more on this subject--I must be left master
of myself."

"Indubitably--certainly--master of yourself--most certainly--of
course."

Mr. Beaumont was going to add something beginning with, "It is better,
at once, to tell you, that I can never--" But Mrs. Beaumont stopped him
with, "Hush! my dear, hush! not a word more, for here is Amelia, and I
cannot talk on this subject before her, you know.----My beloved Amelia,
how languid you look! I fear that, to please me, you have taken too long
a walk; and Mr. Palmer won't see you in your best looks, after
all.--What note is that you have in your hand?"

"A note from Miss Walsingham, mamma."

"Oh! the chickenpox! take caer! letters, notes, every thing may convey
the infection," cried Mrs. Beaumont, snatching the paper. "How could
dearest Miss Walsingham be so giddy as to answer my note, after what I
said in my postscript!--How did this note come?"

"By the little postboy, mamma; I met him at the porter's lodge."

"But what is all this strange thing?" said Mrs. Beaumont, after having
read the note twice over.--It contained a certificate from the parish
minister and churchwardens, apothecary, and surgeon, bearing witness,
one and all, that there was no individual, man, woman, or child, in the
parish, or within three miles of Walsingham House, who was even under
any suspicion of having the chickenpox.

"My father desires me to send Mrs. Beaumont the enclosed _clean bill of
health_--by which she will find that we need be no longer subject to
quarantine; and, unless some other reasons prevent our having the
pleasure of seeing her, we may hope soon that she will favour us with
her long promised visit.

"Yours, sincerely,

"MARIANNE WALSINGHAM."

"I am delighted," said Mrs. Beaumont, "to find it was a false report,
and that we shall not be kept, the Lord knows how long, away from the
dear Walsinghams."

"Then we can go to them to-morrow, can't we, mamma? And I will write,
and say so, shall I?" said Amelia.

"No need to write, my dear; if we promise for any particular day, and
are not able to go, that seems unkind, and is taken ill, you see. And as
Mr. Palmer is coming, we can't leave him."

"But he will go with us surely," said Mr. Beaumont. "The Walsinghams are
as much his relations as we are; and if he comes two hundred miles to
see us, he will, surely, go seven to see them."

"True," said Mrs. Beaumont; "but it is civil and kind to leave him to
fix his own day, poor old gentleman. After so long a journey, we must
allow him some rest. Consider, he can't go galloping about as you do,
dear Edward."

"But," said Amelia, "as the Walsinghams know he is to be in the country,
they will of course come to see him immediately."

"How do they know he is to be in the country?"

"I thought--I took it for granted, you told them so, mamma, when you
wrote about not going to Walsingham House, on Mr. Walsingham's
birthday."

"No, my dear; I was so full of the chickenpox, and terror about you, I
could think of nothing else."

"Thank you, dear mother--but now that is out of the question, I had best
write a line by the return of the postboy, to say, that Mr. Palmer is to
be here to-day, and that he stays only one week."

"Certainly! love--but let me write about it, for I have particular
reasons. And, my dear, now we are by ourselves, let me caution you not
to mention that Mr. Palmer can stay but one week: in the first place it
is uncivil to him, for we are not sure of it, and it is like driving him
away; and in the next place, there are reasons I can't explain to you,
that know so little of the world, my dear Amelia--but, in general, it is
always foolish to mention things."

"Always foolish to mention things!" cried Mr. Beaumont, smiling.

"Of this sort, I mean," said Mrs. Beaumont, a little disconcerted.

"Of what sort?" persisted her son.

"Hush! my dear; here's the postboy and the ass."

"Any letters, my good little boy? Any letters for me?"

"I has, madam, a many for the house. I does not know for who--the bag
will tell," said the boy, unstrapping the bag from his shoulders.

"Give it to me, then," said Mrs. Beaumont: "I am anxious for letters
always." She was peculiarly anxious now to open the post-bag, to put a
stop to a conversation which did not please her. Whilst seated on a
rustic seat, under a spreading beech, our heroine, with her accustomed
looks of mystery, examined the seals of her numerous and important
letters, to ascertain whether they had been opened at the post-office,
or whether their folds might have been pervious to any prying eye. Her
son tore the covers off the newspapers; and, as he unfolded one,
Amelia leaned upon his shoulder, and whispered softly, "Any news of
the fleet, brother?"

Mrs. Beaumont, than whom Fine-ear himself had not quicker auditory
nerves, especially for indiscreet whispers, looked up from her letters,
and examined, unperceived, the countenance of Amelia, who was searching
with eagerness the columns of the paper. As Mr. Beaumont turned over the
leaf, Amelia looked up, and, seeing her mother's eyes fixed upon her,
coloured; and from want of presence of mind to invent any thing better
to say, asked if her mother wished to have the papers?

"No," said Mrs. Beaumont, coldly, "not I, Amelia; I am not such a
politician as you are grown."

Amelia withdrew her attention, or at least her eyes, from the paper, and
had recourse to the beech-tree, the beautiful foliage of which she
studied with profound attention.

"God bless me! here's news! news of the fleet!" cried Beaumont, turning
suddenly to his sister; and then recollecting himself, to his mother.
"Ma'am, they say there has been a great engagement between the French
and Spaniards, and the English--particulars not known yet: but, they
say, ten sail of the French line are taken, and four Spaniards blown up,
and six Spanish men-of-war disabled, and a treasure-ship taken.
Walsingham must have been in the engagement--My horse!--I'll gallop over
this minute, and know from the Walsinghams if they have seen the papers,
and if there's any thing more about it in their papers."

"Gallop! my dearest Edward," said his mother, standing in his path; "but
you don't consider Mr. Palmer--"

"Damn Mr. Palmer! I beg your pardon, mother--I mean no harm to the old
gentleman--friend of my father's--great respect for him--I'll be back by
dinner-time, back ready to receive him--he can't be here till six--only
five by me, now! Ma'am, I shall have more than time to dress, too, cool
as a cucumber, ready to receive the good old fellow."

"In one short hour, my dear!--seven miles to Walsingham House, and seven
back again, and all the time you will waste there, and to dress
too--only consider!"

"I do consider, ma'am; and have considered every thing in the world. My
horse will carry me there and back in fifty minutes, easily, and five to
spare, I'll be bound. I sha'n't light--so where's the paper? I'm off."

"Well--order your horse, and leave me the paper, at least, while he is
getting ready. Ride by this way, and you will find us here--where is
this famous paragraph?"

Beaumont drew the paper crumpled from the pocket into which he had
thrust it--ran off for his horse, and quickly returned mounted. "Give me
the paper, good friends!--I'm off."

"Away, then, my dear; since you will heat yourself for nothing. But only
let me point out to you," said she, holding the paper fast whilst she
held it up to him, "that this whole report rests on no authority
whatever; not a word of it in the gazette; not a line from the
admiralty; no official account; no bulletin; no credit given to the
rumour at Lloyd's; stocks the same.--And how did the news come? Not even
the news-writer pretends it came through any the least respectable
channel. A frigate in latitude the Lord knows what! saw a fleet in a fog
--might be Spanish--might be French--might be English--spoke another
frigate some days afterwards, who heard firing: well--firing says
nothing. But the frigate turns this firing into an engagement, and a
victory; and presently communicates the news to a collier, and the
collier tells another collier, and so it goes up the Thames, to some
wonder-maker, standing agape for a paragraph, to secure a dinner. To the
press the news goes, just as our paper is coming out; and to be sure we
shall have a contradiction and an apology in our next."

"Well, ma'am; but I will ask Mr. Walsingham what he thinks, and show him
the paper."

"Do, if you like it, my dear; I never control you; but don't overheat
yourself for nothing. What can Mr. Walsingham, or all the Walsinghams in
the world, tell more than we can? and as to showing him the paper, you
know he takes the same paper. But don't let me detain you.--Amelia, who
is that coming through the gate? Mr. Palmer's servant, I protest!"

"Well; it can't be, I see!" said Beaumont, dismounting.

"Take away your master's horse--quick--quick!--Amelia, my love, to
dress! I must have you ready to receive your godfather's blessing.
Consider, Mr. Palmer was your father's earliest friend; and besides, he
is a relation, though distant; and it is always a good and prudent thing
to keep up relationships. Many a fine estate has come from very distant
relations most unexpectedly. And even independently of all
relationships, when friendships are properly cultivated, there's no
knowing to what they may lead;--not that I look to any thing of that
sort here. But before you see Mr. Palmer, just as we are walking home,
and quite to ourselves, let me give you some leading hints about this
old gentleman's character, which I have gathered, no matter how, for
your advantage, my dear children. He is a humourist, and must not be
opposed in any of his oddities: he is used to be waited upon, and
attended to, as all these men are who have lived in the West Indies. A
_bon vivant_, of course. Edward, produce your best wines--the pilau and
currie, and all that, leave to me. I had special notice of his love for
a john-doree, and a john-doree I have for him. But now I am going to
give you the master-key to his heart. Like all men who have made great
fortunes, he loves to feel continually the importance his wealth
confers; he loves to feel that wealth does every thing; is superior to
every thing--to birth and titles especially: it is his pride to think
himself, though a commoner, far above any man who condescends to take a
title. He hates persons of quality; therefore, whilst he is here, not a
word in favour of any titled person. Forget the whole house of
peers--send them all to Coventry--all to Coventry, remember.--And, now
you have the key to his heart, go and dress, to be ready for him."

Having thus given her private instructions, and advanced her secret
plans, Mrs. Beaumont repaired to her toilet, well satisfied with her
morning's work.




CHAPTER V.

    "Chi mi fa piu carezze che non sole;
    O m'ha ingannato, o ingannar me vuole."


"By St. George, there's nothing like Old England for comfort!" cried Mr.
Palmer, settling himself in his arm-chair in the evening; "nothing after
all in any part of the known world, like Old England for comfort. Why,
madam, there's not another people in the universe that have in any of
their languages a name even for comfort. The French have been forced to
borrow it; but now they have got it, they don't know how to use it, nor
even how to pronounce it, poor devils! Well, there's nothing like Old
England for comfort."

"Ah! nothing like Old England for comfort!" echoed Mrs. Beaumont, in a
sentimental tone, though at that instant her thoughts were far distant
from her words; for this declaration of his love for Old England alarmed
her with the notion that he might change his mind about returning
immediately to Jamaica, and that he might take root again and flourish
for years to come in his native soil--perhaps in her neighbourhood, to
the bane of all her favourite projects. What would become of her scheme
of marrying Amelia to the baronet, and her son to the docile Albina?
What would become of the scheme of preventing him from being acquainted
with the Walsinghams? For a week it might be practicable to keep them
asunder by _policising_, but this could never be effected if he were to
settle, or even to make any long stay, in the country. The Walsinghams
would be affronted, and then what would become of their interest in the
county? Her son could not be returned without that. And, worse than all
the rest, Mr. Palmer might take a fancy to see these Walsinghams, who
were as nearly related to him as the Beaumonts; and seeing, he might
prefer, and preferring, he might possibly leave half, nay, perhaps the
whole, of his large fortune to them,--and thus all her hopes and
projects might at once be frustrated. Little aware of the long and
perplexing trains of ideas, which his honest ejaculation in favour of
his native country had raised, Mr. Palmer went on with his own
comfortable thoughts.

"And of all the comforts our native land affords, I know of none so
grateful to the heart," continued he, "as good friends, which are to be
found nowhere else in such perfection. A man at my time of life misses
many an old friend on his return to his native country; but then he sees
them still in their representatives, and loves them again in their
children. Mr. Beaumont looked at me at that instant, so like his
father--he is the image of what my friend was, when I first knew him."

"I am rejoiced you see the likeness," said Mrs. Beaumont. "Amelia, my
dear, pour out the coffee."

"And Miss Beaumont, too, has just his expression of countenance, which
surprises me more, in her delicate features. Upon my word, I have reason
to be proud of my god-daughter, as far as appearances go; and with
English women, appearances, fair as they may be, seldom are even so good
as the truth. There's her father's smile again for me--young lady, if
that smile deceives, there's no truth in woman."

"Do not you find our coffee here very bad, compared with what you have
been used to abroad?" said Mrs. Beaumont.

"I do rejoice to find myself here quiet in the country," continued Mr.
Palmer, without hearing the lady's question; "nothing after all like a
good old English family, where every thing speaks plenty and
hospitality, without waste or ostentation; and where you are received
with a hearty welcome, without compliments; and let do just as you
please, without form, and without being persecuted by politeness."

This was the image of an English country family impressed early upon the
good old gentleman's imagination, which had remained there fresh and
unchanged since the days of his youth; and he now took it for granted
that he should see it realized in the family of his late friend.

"I was afraid," resumed Mrs. Beaumont, "that after being so long
accustomed to a West-Indian life, you would find many things unpleasant
to your feelings here. But you are so kind, so accommodating. Is it
really possible that you have not, since your return to England,
experienced any uncomfortable sensations, suffered any serious injury to
your health, my dear sir, from the damps and chills of our climate?"

"Why, now I think of it, I have--I have a caugh," said Mr.
Palmer, coughing.

Mrs. Beaumont officiously shut the window.

"I do acknowledge that England is not quite so superior to all other
countries in her climate as in every thing else: yet I don't 'damn the
climate like a lord.' At my time of life, a man must expect to be a
valetudinarian, and it would be unjust to blame one's native climate
for that. But a man of seventy-five must live where he can, not where
he will; and Dr. Y---- tells me that I can live nowhere but in the
West Indies."

"Oh, sir, never mind Dr. Y----," exclaimed young Beaumont: "live with us
in England. Many Englishmen live to a great age surely, let people say
what they will of the climate."

"But, perhaps, brother," interposed Amelia, "those who, like Mr. Palmer,
have lived much in a warm climate, might find a return to a cold country
dangerous; and we should consider what is best for him, not merely what
is most agreeable to ourselves."

"True, my dearest Amelia," said Mrs. Beaumont; "and to be sure, Dr.
Y---- is one of our most skilful physicians. I could not be so rash or
so selfish as to set my private wishes, or my private opinion, in
opposition to Dr. Y----'s advice; but surely, my dear sir, you won't let
one physician, however eminent, send you away from us all, and banish
you again from England? We have a very clever physician here, Dr.
Wheeler, in whom I have the greatest confidence. In my own case, I
confess, I should prefer his judgment to any of the London fashionable
physicians, who are so fine and so hurried, that they can't take time to
study one's particular constitution, and hear all one has to say to
them. Now that is Wheeler's great excellence--and I should so like to
hear his opinion. I am sure, if he gives it against me, I will not say a
word more: if he decide for Jamaica, I may be vexed, but I should make
it a point of conscience to submit, and not to urge my good friend to
stay in England at his own peril. Happy they who can live where they
please, and whose fortune puts it in their power to purchase any
climate, and to combine the comforts and luxuries of all countries!"

Nothing more was said upon the subject: Mrs. Beaumont turned the
conversation to the different luxuries of the West and East Indies. Mr.
Palmer, fatigued by his journey, retired early to rest, little dreaming
that his kind hostess waked, whilst he slept, for the purpose of
preparing a physician to give a proper opinion upon his case. Mrs.
Beaumont left a note to her favourite Dr. Wheeler, to be sent very early
in the morning. As if by accident, the doctor dropped in at breakfast
time, and Mrs. Beaumont declared that it was the luckiest chance
imaginable, that he should happen to call just when she was wishing to
see him. When the question in debate was stated to him, he, with
becoming gravity of countenance and suavity of manner, entered into a
discussion upon the effect of hot and cold climates upon the solids and
fluids, and nervous system in general; then upon English constitutions
in particular; and, lastly, upon _idiosyncrasies_.

This last word cost Mr. Palmer half his breakfast: on hearing it he
turned down his cup with a profound sigh, and pushed his plate from him;
indications which did not escape the physician's demure eye. Gaining
confidence from the weakness of the patient, Dr. Wheeler now boldly
pronounced, that, in his opinion, any gentleman who, after having
habituated himself long to a hot climate, as Jamaica, for instance,
should come late in life to reside in a colder climate, as England, for
example, must run very great hazard indeed--nay, he could almost venture
to predict, would fall a victim to the sudden tension of the lax fibres.

Though a man of sound good sense in most things, Mr. Palmer's weakness
was, on medical subjects, as great as his ignorance; his superstitious
faith in physicians was as implicit as either Dr. Wheeler or Mrs.
Beaumont could desire.

"Then," said Mr. Palmer, with a sigh still deeper than the first--for
the first was for himself, and the second for his country--"then
England, Old England! farewell for ever! All my judges pronounce
sentence of transportation upon me!"

Mr. Beaumont and Amelia, in eager and persuasive tones of remonstrance
and expostulation, at once addressed the doctor, to obtain a mitigation
or suspension of his sentence. Dr. Wheeler, albeit unused to the
imperative mood, reiterated his _dictum_. Though little accustomed to
hold his opinion against the arguments or the wishes of the rich and
fair, he, upon this occasion, stood his ground against Miss and Mr.
Beaumont wonderfully well for nearly five minutes; till, to his utter
perplexity and dismay, he saw Mrs. Beaumont appear amongst his
assailants.

"Well, I said I would submit, and not say a word, if Dr. Wheeler was
against me," she began; "but I cannot sit by silent: I must protest
against this cruel, cruel decree, so contrary too to what I hoped and
expected would be Dr. Wheeler's opinion."

Poor Dr. Wheeler twinkled and seemed as if he would have rubbed his
eyes, not sure whether he was awake or in a dream. In his perplexity,
he apprehended that he had misunderstood Mrs. Beaumont's note, and he
now prepared to make his way round again through the solids and the
fluids, and the whole nervous system, till, by favour of
_idiosyncrasy_, he hoped to get out of his difficulty, and to allow Mr.
Palmer to remain on British ground. Mrs. Beaumont's face, in spite of
her powers of simulation, lengthened and lengthened, and darkened and
darkened, as he proceeded in his recantation; but, when the exception
to the general axiom was fairly made out, and a clear permit to remain
in England granted, by such high medical authority, she forced a smile,
and joined loudly in the general congratulations. Whilst her son was
triumphing and shaking hands with Mr. Palmer, she slipped down stairs
after Dr. Wheeler.

"Ah, doctor! What have you done! Ruined me! ruined me! Didn't you
read my note? Didn't you _understand_ it?--I thought a word to the
wise was enough."

"Why!--then it was as I understood it at first? So I thought; but then I
fancied I must be mistaken afterwards; for when I expected support, my
dear madam, you opposed my opinion in favour of Jamaica more warmly than
any one, and what was I to think?"

"To think! Oh, my dear doctor, you might have guessed that was only a
sham opposition."

"But, my dear ma'am," cried Dr. Wheeler, who, though the mildest of men,
was now worked up to something like indignation, "my dear ma'am--sham
upon sham is too much for any man!"

The doctor went down stairs murmuring. Thus, by excess of hypocrisy, our
heroine disgusted even her own adherents, in which she has the honour to
resemble some of the most wily politicians famous in English history.
But she was too wise ever to let any one who could serve or injure her
go discontented out of her presence.

"My dear, good Dr. Wheeler, I never saw you angry before. Come, come,"
cried Mrs. Beaumont, sliding a _douceur_ into his hand, "friends must
not be vexed for trifles; it was only a mistake _de part et d'autre_,
and you'll return here to-morrow, in your way home, and breakfast with
us; and now we understand one another. And," added she, in a whisper,
"we can talk over things, and have your cool judgment best, when only
you, and I, and Mr. Palmer, are present. You comprehend."

Those who practise many manoeuvres, and carry on many intrigues at the
same time, have this advantage, that if one fails, the success of
another compensates for the disappointment. However she might have been
vexed by this slight _contre-temps_ with Dr. Wheeler, Mrs. Beaumont had
ample compensation of different sorts this day; some due to her own
exertions, some owing to accident. Her own exertions prevented her dear
Albina Hunter from returning; for Mrs. Beaumont never sent the promised
carriage--only a note of apology--a nail had run into one of the
coach-horse's feet. To accident she owed that the Walsinghams were not
at home when her son galloped over to see them the next morning, and to
inquire what news from Captain Walsingham. That day's paper also brought
a contradiction of the report of the engagement and victory; so that
Mrs. Beaumont's apprehensions on this subject were allayed; and she had
no doubt that, by proper management, with a sufficient number of notes
and messages, misunderstandings, lame horses, and crossings upon the
road, she might actually get through the week without letting the
Walsinghams see Mr. Palmer; or at least without more than a _vis_, or a
morning visit, from which no great danger could be apprehended. "Few,
indeed, have so much character," thought she, "or so much dexterity in
showing it, as to make a dangerous impression in the course of a formal
morning visit."




CHAPTER VI.

   "Ah! c'est mentir tant soit peu; j'en conviens;
    C'est un grand mal--mais il produit un bien."
                                             VOLTAIRE.


The third day went off still more successfully. Dr. Wheeler called at
breakfast, frightened Mr. Palmer out of his senses about his health, and
convinced him that his life depended upon his immediate return to the
climate of Jamaica:--so this point was decided.

Mrs. Beaumont, calculating justly that the Walsinghams would return Mr.
Beaumont's visit, and come to pay their respects to Mr. Palmer this
morning, settled, as soon as breakfast was over, a plan of operations
which should keep Mr. Palmer out till dinner-time. He must see the
charming drive which her son had made round his improvements; and she
must have the pleasure of showing it to him herself; and she assured him
that he might trust to her driving.

So into Mrs. Beaumont's garden-chair he got; and when she had him fairly
prisoner, she carried him far away from all danger of intruding
visitors. It may readily be supposed that our heroine made good use of
the five or six hours' leisure for manoeuvring which she thus secured.

So frank and cordial was this simple-hearted old man, any one but Mrs.
Beaumont would have thought that with him no manoeuvring was necessary;
that she need only to have trusted to his friendship and generosity, and
have directly told him her wishes. He was so prepossessed in her favour,
as being the widow of his friend, that he was almost incapable of
suspecting her of any unhandsome conduct; besides, having had little
converse with modern ladies, his imagination was so prepossessed with
the old-fashioned picture of a respectable widow lady and guardian
mother, that he took it for granted Mrs. Beaumont was just like one of
the good matrons of former times, like Lady Bountiful, or Lady Lizard;
and, as such, he spoke to her of her family concerns, in all the
openness of a heart which knew no guile.

"Now, my good Mistress Beaumont, you must look upon me just as my friend
the colonel would have done; as a man, who has your family interests at
heart just as much as if I were one of yourselves. And let me in to all
your little affairs, and trust me with all your little plans, and let us
talk over things together, and settle how every thing can be done for
the best for the young people. You know, I have no relations in the
world but your family and the Walsinghams, of whom, by-the-bye, I know
nothing. No one living has any claim upon me: I can leave or give my own
just as I please; and you and yours are, of course, my first
objects--and for the how, and the what, and the when, I must consult
you; and only beg you to keep it in mind, that I would as soon _give_ as
_bequeath_, and rather; for as to what a man leaves to his friends, he
can only have the satisfaction of thinking that they will be the better
for him after he is dead and gone, which is but cold comfort; but what
he gives he has the warm comfort of seeing them enjoy whilst he is alive
with them."

"Such a generous sentiment!" exclaimed Mrs. Beaumont, "and so unlike
persons in general who have large fortunes at their disposal! I feel so
much obliged, so excessively--"

"Not at all, not at all, not at all--no more of that, no more of that,
my good lady. The colonel and I were friends; so there can be no
obligation between us, nor thanks, nor speeches. But, just as if you
were talking to yourself, tell me your mind. And if there are any little
embarrassments that the son may want to clear off on coming of age; or
if there's any thing wanting to your jointure, my dear madam; or if
there should be any marriages in the wind, where a few thousands, more
or less, might be the making or the breaking of a heart;--let me hear
about it all: and do me the justice to let me have the pleasure of
making the young folks, and the old folks too, happy their own way; for
I have no notion of insisting on all people being happy my way--no, no!
I've too much English liberty in me for that; and I'm sure, you, my good
lady, are as great a foe as I am to all family managements and
mysteries, where the old don't know what the young do, nor the young
what the old think. No, no--that's all nonsense and French convent
work--nothing like a good old English family. So, my dear Mistress
Beaumont, out with it all, and make me one of yourselves, free of the
family from this minute. Here's my hand and heart upon it--an old friend
may presume so far."

This frankness would have opened any heart except Mrs. Beaumont's; but
it is the misfortune of artful people that they cannot believe others to
be artless: either they think simplicity of character folly; or else
they suspect that openness is only affected, as a bait to draw them into
snares. Our heroine balanced for a moment between these two notions. She
could not believe Mr. Palmer to be an absolute fool--no; his having made
such a large fortune forbad that thought. Then he must have thrown
himself thus open merely to _try her_, and to come at the knowledge of
debts and embarrassments, which, if brought to light, would lower his
opinion of the prudence of the family.

"My excellent friend, to be candid with you," she began, "there is no
need of your generosity at present, to relieve my son from any
embarrassments; for I know that he has no debts whatever. And I am
confident he will make my jointure every thing, and more than every
thing, I could desire. And, as to marriages, my Amelia is so young,
there's time enough to consider."

"True, true; and she does well to take time to consider. But though I
don't understand these matters much, she looks mightily like the notion
I have of a girl that's a little bit in love."

"In love! Oh, my dear sir! you don't say so--in love?"

"Why, I suppose I should not say _in love_; there's some other way of
expressing it come into fashion since my time, no doubt. And even then,
I know that was not to be said of a young lady, till signing and sealing
day; but it popped out, and I can't get it back again, so you must even
let it pass. And what harm? for you know, madam, without love, what
would become of the world?--though I was jilted once and away, I
acknowledge--but forgive and forget. I don't like the girl a whit the
worse for being a little bit tender-hearted. For I'm morally certain,
even from the little I have heard her say, and from the way she has been
brought up, and from her being her father's daughter, and her mother's,
madam, she could not fix her affections on any one that would not do
honour to her choice, or--which is only saying the same thing in other
words--that you and I should not approve."

"Ah! there's the thing!" said Mrs. Beaumont, sighing.

"Why now I took it into my head from a blush I saw this morning, though
how I came to notice it, I don't know; for to my recollection I have not
noticed a girl's blushing before these twenty years--but, to be sure,
here I have as near an interest, almost, as if she were my own
daughter--I say, from the blush I saw this morning, when young Beaumont
was talking of the gallop he had taken to inquire about Captain
Walsingham, I took it into my head that he was the happy man."

"Oh! my dear sir, he never made any proposals for Amelia." That
was strictly true. "Nor, I am sure, ever thought of it, as far as
ever I heard."

The saving clause of "_as far as ever I heard_," prevented this last
assertion from coming under that description of falsehoods denominated
downright lies.

"Indeed, how could he?" pursued Mrs. Beaumont, "for you know he is no
match for Amelia; he has nothing in the world but his commission. No;
there never was any proposal from that quarter; and, of course, it is
impossible my daughter could think of a man who has no thoughts of her."

"You know best, my good madam; I merely spoke at random. I'm the worst
guesser in the world, especially on these matters: what people tell me,
I know; and neither more not less."

Mrs. Beaumont rejoiced in the simplicity of her companion. "Then, my
good friend, it is but fair to tell you," said she, "that Amelia has
an admirer."

"A lover, hey! Who?"

"Ah, there's the misfortune; it is a thing I never can consent to."

"Ha! then now it is out! There's the reason the girl blushes, and is so
absent at times."

A plan now occurred to Mrs. Beaumont's scheming imagination which she
thought the master-piece of policy. She determined to account for
whatever symptoms of embarrassment Mr. Palmer might observe in her
daughter, by attributing them to a thwarted attachment for Sir John
Hunter; and Mrs. Beaumont resolved to make a merit to Mr. Palmer of
opposing this match because the lover was a baronet, and she thought
that Mr. Palmer would be pleased by her showing an aversion to the
thoughts of her daughter's marrying _a sprig of quality_. This
ingenious method of paying her court to her open-hearted friend, at the
expense equally of truth and of her daughter, she executed with her
usual address.

"Well, I'm heartily glad, my dear good madam, to find that you have the
same prejudices against sprigs of quality that I have. One good commoner
is worth a million of them to my mind. So I told a puppy of a nephew of
mine, who would go and buy a baronetage, forsooth--disinherited him! but
he is dead, poor puppy."

"Poor young man! But this is all new to me," said Mrs. Beaumont, with
well-feigned surprise.

"But did not you know, my dear madam, that I had a nephew, and that
he is dead?"

"Oh, yes; but not the particulars."

"No; the particulars I never talk of--not to the poor dog's credit. It's
well he's dead, for if he had lived, I am afraid I should have forgiven
him. No, no, I never would. But there is no use in thinking any more of
that. What were we saying? Oh, about your Amelia--our Amelia, let me
call her. If she is so much attached, poor thing, to this man, though he
is a baronet, which I own is against him to my fancy, yet it is to be
presumed he has good qualities to balance that, since she values him;
and young people must be young, and have their little foolish
prepossessions for title, and so forth. To be sure, I should have
thought my friend's daughter above that, of such a good family as she
is, and with such good sense as she inherits too. But we have all our
foibles, I suppose. And since it is so with Amelia, why do let me see
this baronet-swain of hers, and let me try what good I can find out in
him, and let me bring myself, if I can, over my prejudices. And then
you, my dear madam, so good and kind a mother as you are, will make an
effort too on your part; for we must see the girl happy, if it is not
out of all sense and reason. And if the man be worthy of her, it is not
his fault that he is a sprig of quality; and we must forgive and forget,
and give our consent, my dear Mrs. Beaumont."

"And would you ever give your consent to her marrying Sir John Hunter?"
cried Mrs. Beaumont, breathless with amazement, and for a moment thrown
off her guard so as to speak quite naturally. The sudden difference in
her tone and manner struck even her unsuspicious companion, and he
attributed it to displeasure at this last hint.

"Why, my very dear good friend's wife, forgive me," said he, "for this
interference, and for, as it seems, opposing your opinion about your
daughter's marriage, which no man has a right to do--but if you ask me
plump whether I could forgive her for marrying Sir John Hunter, I
answer, for I can speak nothing but the truth, I would, if he is a
worthy man."

"I thought," said Mrs. Beaumont, astonished, "you disinherited your own
nephew, because he took a baronet's title against your will."

"Bless you! no, my dear madam--that did displease me, to be sure--but
that was the least cause of displeasure I had. I let the world fancy and
say what they would, rather than bring faults to light.--But no more
about that."

"But did not you take an oath that you would never leave a shilling of
your fortune to any _sprig of quality?_"

"Never! my dearest madam! never," cried Mr. Palmer, laughing. "Never was
such a gander. See what oaths people put into one's mouth."

"And what lies the world tells," said Mrs. Beaumont.

"And believes," said Mr. Palmer, with a sly smile.

The surprise that Mrs. Beaumont felt was mixed with a strange and rapid
confusion of other sentiments, regret for having wasted such a quantity
of contrivance and manoeuvring against an imaginary difficulty. All this
arose from her too easy belief of _secret underhand information_.

Through the maze of artifice in which she had involved affairs, she
now, with some difficulty, perceived that plain truth would have served
her purpose better. But regret for the past was not in the least mixed
with any thing like remorse or penitence; on the contrary, she
instantly began to consider how she could best profit by her own wrong.
She thought she saw two of her favourite objects almost within her
reach, Mr. Palmer's fortune, and the future title for her daughter: no
obstacle seemed likely to oppose the accomplishment of her wishes,
except Amelia's own inclinations: these she thought she could readily
prevail upon her to give up; for she knew that her daughter was both of
a timid and of an affectionate temper; that she had never in any
instance withstood, or even disputed, her maternal authority; and that
dread of her displeasure had often proved sufficient to make Amelia
suppress or sacrifice her own feelings. Combining all these reflections
with her wonted rapidity, Mrs. Beaumont determined what her play should
now be. She saw, or thought she saw, that she ought, either by gentle
or strong means, to lure or intimidate Amelia to her purpose; and that,
while she carried on this part of the plot with her daughter in
private, she should appear to Mr. Palmer to yield to his persuasions by
degrees, to make the young people happy their own way, and to be
persuaded reluctantly out of her aversion to _sprigs of quality_. To be
sure, it would be necessary to give fresh explanations and instructions
to Sir John Hunter, through his sister, with the new parts that he and
she were to act in this domestic drama. As soon as Mrs. Beaumont
returned from her airing, therefore, she retired to her own apartment,
and wrote a note of explanation, with a proper proportion of sentiment
and _verbiage,_ to her dear Albina, begging to see her and Sir John
Hunter the very next day. The horse, which had been lamed by the nail,
now, of course, had recovered; and it was found by Mrs. Beaumont that
she had been misinformed, and that he had been lamed only by sudden
cramp. Any excuse she knew would be sufficient, in the present state of
affairs, to the young lady, who was more ready to be deceived than even
our heroine was disposed to deceive. Indeed, as Machiavel says, "as
there are people willing to cheat, there will always be those who are
ready to be cheated."




CHAPTER VII.

    "Vous m'enchantez, mais vous m'épouvantez;
    Ces pieges-là sont-ils bien ajustés?
    Craignez vous point de vous laisser surprendre
    Dans les filets que vos mains savent tendre?"
                                           VOLTAIRE.


To prepare Amelia to receive Sir John Hunter _properly_ was Mrs.
Beaumont's next attempt; for as she had represented to Mr. Palmer that
her daughter was attached to Sir John, it was necessary that her manner
should in some degree accord with this representation, that at least it
should not exhibit any symptoms of disapprobation or dislike: whatever
coldness or reserve might appear, it would be easy to attribute to
bashfulness and dread of Mr. Palmer's observation. When Amelia was
undressing at night, her mother went into her room; and, having
dismissed the maid, threw herself into an arm-chair, and exclaimed,
half-yawning, "How tired I am!--No wonder, such a long airing as we
took to-day. But, my dear Amelia, I could not sleep to-night without
telling you how glad I am to find that you are such a favourite with
Mr. Palmer."

"I am glad he likes me," said Amelia; "I am sure I like him. What a
benevolent, excellent man he seems to be!"

"Excellent, excellent--the best creature in the world!--And so
interested about you! and so anxious that you should be well and soon
established; almost as anxious about it as I am myself."

"He is very good--and you are very good, mamma; but there is no occasion
that I should be _soon established_, as it is called--is there?"

"That is the regular answer, you know, in these cases, from every young
lady that ever was born, in or out of a book within the memory of man.
But we will suppose all that to be said prettily on your part, and
answered properly on mine: so give me leave to go on to something more
to the purpose; and don't look so alarmed, my love. You know, I am not a
hurrying person; you shall take your own time, and every thing shall be
done as you like, and the whole shall be kept amongst ourselves
entirely; for nothing is so disadvantageous and distressing to a young
woman as to have these things talked of in the world long before they
take place."

"But, ma'am!--Surely there is no marriage determined upon for me,
without my even knowing it."

"Determined upon!--Oh dear, no, my darling. You shall decide every thing
for yourself."

"Thank you, mother; now you are kind indeed."

"Indubitably, my dearest Amelia, I would not decide on any thing without
consulting you: for I have the greatest dependence on your prudence and
judgment. With a silly romantic girl, who had no discretion, I should
certainly think it my duty to do otherwise; and if I saw my daughter
following headlong some idle fancy of fifteen, I should interpose my
authority at once, and say, It must not be. But I know my Amelia so
well, that I am confident she will judge as prudently for herself as I
could for her; and indeed, I am persuaded that our opinions will be now,
as they almost always are, my sweet girl, the same."

"I hope so mamma--but----"

"Well, well, I'll allow a maidenly _but_--and you will allow that Sir
John Hunter shall be the man at last."

"Oh, mamma, that can never be," said Amelia, with much earnestness.

"_Never_--A young lady's _never_, Amelia, I will allow too. Don't
interrupt me, my dear--but give me leave to tell you again, that you
shall have your own time--Mr. Palmer has given his consent and
approbation."

"Consent and approbation!" cried Amelia. "And is it come to this?
without even consulting me! And is this the way I am left to judge for
myself?--Oh, mother! mother! what will become of me?"

Amelia, who had long had experience that it was vain for her to attempt
to counteract or oppose any scheme that her mother had planned, sat down
at this instant in despair: but even from despair she took courage; and,
rising suddenly, exclaimed, "I never can or will marry Sir John
Hunter--for I love another person--mother, you know I do--and I will
speak truth, and abide by it, let the consequences be what they may."

"Well, my dear, don't speak so loud, at all events; for though it may be
very proper to speak the truth, it is not necessary that the whole
universe should hear it. You speak of another attachment--is it possible
that you allude to Captain Walsingham? But Captain Walsingham has never
proposed for you, nor even given you any reason to think he would; or if
he has, he must have deceived me in the grossest manner."

"He is incapable of deceiving any body," said Amelia. "He never gave me
any reason to think he would propose for me; nor ever made the slightest
attempt to engage my affections. You saw his conduct: it was always
uniform. He is incapable of any double or underhand practices."

"In the warmth of your eulogium on Captain Walsingham, you seem, Amelia,
to forget that you reflect, in the most severe manner, upon yourself:
for what woman, what young woman especially, who has either delicacy,
pride, or prudence, can avow that she loves a man, who has never given,
even by her own statement of the matter, the slightest reason to believe
that he thinks of her?"

Amelia stood abashed, and for some instants incapable of reply: but at
last, approaching her mother, and hiding her face, as she hung over her
shoulder, she said, in a low and timid voice, "It was only to my
mother--I thought that could not be wrong--and when it was to prevent a
greater wrong, the engaging myself to another person."

"Engaging yourself, my foolish child! but did I not tell you that you
should have your own time?"

"But no time, mother, will do."

"Try, my dear love; that is all I ask of you; and this you cannot, in
duty, in kindness, in prudence, or with decency, refuse me."

"Cannot I?"

"Indeed you cannot. So say not a word more that can lessen the high
opinion I have of you; but show me that you have a becoming sense of
your own and of female dignity, and that you are not the poor,
mean-spirited creature, to pine for a man who disdains you."

"Disdain! I never saw any disdain. On the contrary, though he never gave
me reason to think so, I cannot help fancying----"

"That he likes you--and yet he never proposed for you! Do not believe
it--a man may coquet as well as a woman, and often more; but till he
makes his proposal, never, if you have any value for your own happiness
or dignity, fancy for a moment that he loves you."

"But he cannot marry, because he is so poor."

"True--and if so, what stronger argument can be brought against your
thinking of him?"

"I do not think of him--I endeavour not to think of him."

"That is my own girl! Depend upon it, he thinks not of you. He is all in
his profession--prefers it to every woman upon earth. I have heard him
say he would not give it up for any consideration. All for glory, you
see; nothing for love."

Amelia sighed. Her mother rose, and kissing her, said, as if she took
every thing she wished for granted, "So, my Amelia, I am glad to see you
reasonable, and ready to show a spirit that becomes you--Sir John Hunter
breakfasts here to-morrow."

"But," said Amelia, detaining her mother, who would have left the room,
"I cannot encourage Sir John Hunter, for I do not esteem him; therefore
I am sure I can never love him."

"You cannot encourage Sir John Hunter, Amelia?" replied Mrs. Beaumont.
"It is extraordinary that this should appear to you an impossibility the
very moment the gentleman proposes for you. It was not always so. Allow
me to remind you of a ball last year, where you and I met both Sir John
Hunter and Captain Walsingham; as I remember, you gave all your
attention that evening to Sir John."

"Oh, mother, I am ashamed of that evening--I regret it more than any
evening of my life. I did wrong, very wrong; and bitterly have I
suffered for it, as people always do, sooner or later, by deceit. I
was afraid that you should see my real feelings; and, to conceal
them, I, for the first and last time of my life, acted like a
coquette. But if you recollect, dear mother, the very next day I
confessed the truth to you. My friend, Miss Walsingham, urged me to
have the courage to be sincere."

"Miss Walsingham! On every occasion I find the secret influence of these
Walsinghams operating in my family," cried Mrs. Beaumont, from a sudden
impulse of anger, which threw her off her guard.

"Surely their influence has always been beneficial to us all. To me,
Miss Walsingham's friendship has been of the greatest service."

"Yes; by secretly encouraging you, against your mother's approbation, in
a ridiculous passion for a man who neither can nor will marry you."

"Far from encouraging me, madam, in any thing contrary to your
wishes--and far from wishing to do any thing secretly, Miss Walsingham
never spoke to me on this subject but once; and that was to advise me
strongly not to conceal the truth from you, and not to make use of any
artifices or manoeuvres."

"Possibly, very possibly; but I presume you could conduct yourself
properly without Miss Walsingham's interference or advice."

"I thought, mamma, you liked Miss Walsingham particularly, and that you
wished I should cultivate her friendship."

"Certainly; I admire Miss Walsingham extremely, and wish to be on the
best terms with the family; but I will never permit any one to interfere
between me and my children. We should have gone on better without
advisers."

"I am sure her advice and friendship have preserved me from many faults,
but never led me into any. I might, from timidity, and from fear of your
superior address and abilities, have become insincere and artful; but
she has given me strength of mind enough to bear the present evil, and
to dare at all hazards to speak the truth."

"But, my dearest Amelia," said Mrs. Beaumont, softening her tone, "why
so warm? What object can your mother have but your good? Can any Miss
Walsingham, or any other friend upon earth, have your interest so much
at heart as I have? Why am I so anxious, if it is not from love to you?"

Amelia was touched by her mother's looks and words of affection, and
acknowledged that she had spoken with too much warmth.

Mrs. Beaumont thought she could make advantage of this moment.

"Then, my beloved child, if you are convinced of my affection for you,
show at least some confidence in me in return: show some disposition to
oblige me. Here is a match I approve; here is an establishment every way
suitable."

"But why, mamma, must I be married?" interrupted Amelia. "I will not
think, at least I will try not to think, of any one of whom you do not
approve; but I cannot marry any other man while I feel such a partiality
for--. So, dear mother, pray do not let Sir John Hunter come here any
more on my account. It is not necessary that I should marry."

"It is necessary, however," said Mrs. Beaumont, withdrawing her hand
haughtily, and darting a look of contempt and anger upon her daughter,
"it is necessary, however, that I should be mistress in my own house,
and that I should invite here whomever I please. And it is necessary
that you should receive them without airs, and with politeness. On this,
observe, I insist, and will be obeyed."

Mrs. Beaumont would receive no reply, but left the room seemingly in
great displeasure: but even half her anger was affected, to intimidate
this gentle girl.

Sir John Hunter and his sister arrived to breakfast. Mrs. Beaumont
played her part admirably; so that she seemed to Mr. Palmer only to be
enduring Sir John from consideration for her daughter, and from
compliance with Mr. Palmer's own request that she would try what could
be done to make the young people happy; yet she, with infinite address,
_drew Sir John out_, and dexterously turned every thing he said into what
she thought would please Mr. Palmer, though all the time she seemed to
be misunderstanding or confuting him. Mr. Palmer's attention, which was
generally fixed exclusively on one object at a time, had ample
occupation in studying Sir John, whom he examined, for Amelia's sake,
with all the honest penetration which he possessed. Towards Amelia
herself he scarcely ever looked; for, without any refinement of
delicacy, he had sufficient feeling and sense to avoid what he thought
would embarrass a young lady. Amelia's silence and reserve appeared to
him, therefore, as her politic mother had foreseen, just what was
natural and proper. He had been told that she was attached to Sir John
Hunter; and the idea of doubting the truth of what Mrs. Beaumont had
asserted could not enter his confiding mind,

In the mean time, our heroine, to whom the conduct of a double intrigue
was by no means embarrassing, did not neglect the affairs of her dear
Albina: she had found time before breakfast, as she met Miss Hunter
getting out of her carriage, to make herself sure that her notes of
explanation had been understood; and she now, by a multitude of scarcely
perceptible inuendoes, and seemingly suppressed looks of pity, contrived
to carry on the representation she had made to her son of this damsel's
helpless and lovelorn state. Indeed, the young lady appeared as much in
love as could have been desired for stage effect, and rather more than
was necessary for propriety. All Mrs. Beaumont's art, therefore, was
exerted to throw a veil of becoming delicacy over what might have been
too glaring, by hiding half to improve the whole. Where there was any
want of management on the part of her young coadjutrix, she, with
exquisite skill, made advantage even of these errors by look? and sighs,
that implied almost as emphatically as words could have said to her
son--"You see what I told you is too true. The simple creature has not
art enough to conceal her passion. She is undone in the eyes of the
world, if you do not confirm what report has said."

This she left to work its natural effect upon the vanity of man. And in
the midst of these multiplied manoeuvres, Mrs. Beaumont sat with ease
and unconcern, sometimes talking to one, sometimes to another; so that a
stranger would have thought her a party uninterested in all that was
going forward, and might have wondered at her blindness or indifference.

But, alas! notwithstanding her utmost art, she failed this day in
turning and twisting Sir John Hunter's conversation and character so as
to make them agreeable to Mr. Palmer. This she knew by his retiring at
an early hour at night, as he sometimes did when company was not
agreeable to him. His age gave him this privilege. Mrs. Beaumont
followed, to inquire if he would not wish to _take something_ before he
went to rest.

"By St. George, Madam Beaumont, you are right," said Mr. Palmer, "you
are right, in not liking this baronet. I'm tired of him--sick of
him--can't like him!--sorry for it, since Amelia likes him. But what can
a daughter of Colonel Beaumont find in this man to be pleased with? He
is a baronet, to be sure, but that is all. Tell me, my good madam, what
it is the girl likes in him?"

Mrs. Beaumont could only answer by an equivocal smile, and a shrug, that
seemed to say--there's no accounting for these things.

"But, my dear madam," pursued Mr. Palmer, "the man is neither handsome
nor young: he is old enough for her father, though he gives himself the
airs of a youngster; and his manners are--I can allow for fashionable
manners. But, madam, it is his character I don't like--selfish--cold--
designing--not a generous thought, not a good feeling about him. You are
right, madam, quite right. In all his conversation such meanness, and
even in what he means for wit, such a contempt of what is fair and
honourable! Now that fellow does not believe that such a thing as virtue
or patriotism, honour or friendship, exists. The jackanapes!--and as for
love! why, madam, I'm convinced he is no more in love with the girl than
I am, nor so much, ma'am, nor half so much!--does not feel her merit,
does not value her accomplishments, does not Madam! madam! he is
thinking of nothing but himself, and her fortune--fortune! fortune!
fortune! that's all. The man's a miser. Madam, they that know no better
fancy that there are none but old misers; but I can tell them there are
young misers, and middle-aged misers, and misers of all ages. They say
such a man can't be a miser, because he is a spendthrift; but, madam,
you know a man can be both--yes, and that's what many of your young men
of fashion are, and what, I'll engage, this fellow is. And can Amelia
like him? my poor child! and does she think he loves her? my poor, poor
child! how can she be so blind? but love is always blind, they say. I've
a great mind to take her to task, and ask her, between ourselves, what
it is she likes in her baronet."

"Oh, my dear sir! she would sink to the centre of the earth if you were
to speak. For Heaven's sake, don't take her to task, foolish as she is;
besides, she would be so angry with me for telling you."

"Angry? the gipsy! Am not I her godfather and her guardian? though I
could not act, because I was abroad, yet her guardian I was left by her
father, and love her too as well as I should a daughter of her
father's--and she to have secrets, and mysteries! that would be worse
than all the rest, for mysteries are what I abhor. Madam, wherever there
are secrets and mysteries in a family, take my word for it, there is
somethings wrong."

"True, my dear sir; but Amelia has no idea of mysteries or art. I only
meant that young girls, you know, will be ashamed on these occasions,
and we must make allowances. So do not speak to her, I conjure you."

"Well, madam, you are her mother, and must know best. I have only her
interest at heart: but I won't speak to her, since it will so distress
her. But what shall be done about this lover? You are quite right about
him, and I have not a word more to say."

"But I declare I think you judge him too harshly. Though I am not
inclined to be his friend, yet I must do him the justice to say, he has
more good qualities than you allow, or rather than you have seen yet. He
is passionately fond of Amelia. Oh, there you're wrong, quite wrong; he
is passionately in love, whatever he may pretend to the contrary."

"Pretend! and why should the puppy pretend not to be in love?"

"Pride, pride and fashion. Young men are so governed by fashion, and so
afraid of ridicule. There's a set of _fashionables_ now, with whom love
is a _bore, _you know."

"I know! no, indeed, I know no such thing," said Mr. Palmer. "But this I
know, that I hate pretences of all sorts; and if the man is in love, I
should, for my part, like him the better for showing it."

"So he will, when you know him a little better. You are quite a
stranger, and he is bashful."

"Bashful! Never saw so confident a man in any country."

"But he is shy under all that."

"Under! But I don't like characters where every thing is under something
different from what appears at top."

"Well, take a day or two more to study him. Though I am his enemy, I
must deal fairly by him, for poor Amelia's sake."

"You are a good mother, madam, an indulgent mother, and I honour and
love you for it. I'll follow your example, and bear with this
spendthrift-miser-coxcomb sprig of quality for a day or two more, and
try to like him, for Amelia's sake. But, if he's not worthy of her, he
sha'n't have her, by St. George, he shall not--shall he, madam?"

"Oh, no, no; good night, my good sir."

What the manoeuvres of the next day might have effected, and how far Sir
John Hunter profited by the new instructions which were given to him in
consequence of this conversation, can never be accurately ascertained,
because the whole united plan of operations was disturbed by a new and
unforeseen event.




CHAPTER VIII.

           "Un volto senza senno,
    Un petto senza core, un cor senz' alma,
    Un' alma senza fede."
                              GUARINI.


"Here's glorious news of Captain Walsingham!" cried young Beaumont; "I
always knew he would distinguish himself if he had an opportunity; and,
thank God! he has had as fine an opportunity as heart could wish. Here,
mother! here, Mr. Palmer, is an account of it in this day's paper! and
here is a letter from himself, which Mr. Walsingham has just sent me."

"Oh, give _me_ the letter," cried Mrs. Beaumont, with affected
eagerness.

"Let me have the paper, then," cried Mr. Palmer. "Where are my
spectacles?"

"Are there any letters for _me?_" said Sir John Hunter. "Did my
newspapers come? Albina, I desired that they should be forwarded here.
Mrs. Beaumont, can you tell me any thing of _my_ papers?"

"Dear Amelia, how interesting your brother looks when he is pleased!"
Albina whispered, quite loud enough to be heard.

"A most gallant action, by St. George!" exclaimed Mr. Palmer. "These
are the things that keep up the honour of the British navy, and the
glory of Britain."

"This Spanish ship that Captain Walsingham captured the day after the
engagement is likely to turn out a valuable prize, too," said Mrs.
Beaumont. "I am vastly glad to find this by his letter, for the money
will be useful to him, he wanted it so much. He does not say how much
his share will come to, does he, Edward?"

"No, ma'am: you see he writes in a great hurry, and he has only time, as
he says, to mention _the needful_."

"And is not the money _the needful?_" said Sir John Hunter, with a
splenetic smile.

"With Walsingham it is only a secondary consideration," replied
Beaumont; "honour is Captain Walsingham's first object. I dare say he
has never yet calculated what his prize-money will be."

"Right, right!" reiterated Mr. Palmer; "then he is the right sort.
Long may it be before our naval officers think more of prize-money
than of glory! Long may it be before our honest tars turn into
calculating pirates!"

"They never will or can whilst they have such officers as Captain
Walsingham," said Beaumont.

"By St. George, he seems to be a fine fellow, and you a warm friend,"
said Mr. Palmer. "Ay, ay, the colonel's own son. But why have I never
seen any of these Walsinghams since I came to the country? Are they
ashamed of being related to me, because I am a merchant?"

"More likely they are too proud to pay court to you because you are so
rich," said Mr. Beaumont. "But they did come to see you, sir,--the
morning you were out so late, mother, you know."

"Oh, ay, true--how unfortunate!"

"But have not we horses? have not we carriages? have not we legs?" said
Mr. Palmer. "I'll go and see these Walsinghams to-morrow, please God I
live so long: for I am proud of my relationship to this young hero; and
I won't be cast off by good people, let them be as proud as they
will--that's their fault--but I will not stand on idle ceremony: so, my
good Mistress Beaumont, we will all go in a body, and storm their
castle to-morrow morning."

"An admirable plan! I like it of all things!" said Mrs. Beaumont. "How
few, even in youth, are so active and enthusiastic as our good friend!
But, my dear Mr. Palmer--"

"But I wish I could see the captain himself. Is there any chance of his
coming home?"

"Home! yes," said Beaumont: "did you not read his letter, sir? here it
is; he will be at home directly. He says, 'perhaps a few hours after
this letter reaches you, you'll see me.'"

"See him! Odds my life, I'm glad of it. And you, my little Amelia," said
Mr. Palmer, tapping her shoulders as she stood with her back to him
reading the newspaper; "and you, my little silent one, not one word have
I heard from you all this time. Does not some spark of your father's
spirit kindle within you on hearing of this heroic relation of ours?"

"Luckily for the ladies, sir," said Sir John Hunter, coming up, as he
thought, to the lady's assistance--"luckily for young ladies, sir, they
are not called upon to be heroes; and it would be luckier still for us
men, if they never set themselves up for heroines--Ha! ha! ha! Miss
Beaumont," continued he, "the shower is over; I'll order the horses out,
that we may have our ride." Sir John left the room, evidently pleased
with his own wit.

"Amelia, my love," said Mrs. Beaumont, who drew up also to give
assistance at this critical juncture, "go, this moment, and write a note
to your friend Miss Walsingham, to say that we shall all be with them
early to-morrow: I will send a servant directly, that we may be sure to
meet with them at home this time; you'll find pen, ink, and paper in my
dressing-room, love."

Mrs. Beaumont drew Amelia's arm within hers, and, dictating kindest
messages for the Walsinghams, led her out of the loom. Having thus
successfully covered her daughter's retreat, our skilful manoeuvrer
returned, all self-complacent, to the company. And next, to please the
warm-hearted Mr. Palmer, she seemed to sympathize in his patriotic
enthusiasm for the British navy: she pronounced a panegyric on the
_young hero,_ Captain Walsingham, which made the good old man rub his
hands with exultation, and which irradiated with joy the countenance of
her son. But, alas! Mrs. Beaumont's endeavours to please, or rather to
dupe all parties, could not, even with her consummate address, always
succeed: though she had an excellent memory, and great presence of mind,
with peculiar quickness both of eye and ear, yet she could not always
register, arrange, and recollect all that was necessary for the various
parts she undertook to act. Scarcely had she finished her eulogium on
Captain Walsingham, when, to her dismay, she saw close behind her Sir
John Hunter, who had entered the room without her perceiving it. He said
not one word; but his clouded brow showed his suspicions, and his
extreme displeasure.

"Mrs. Beaumont," said he, after some minutes' silence, "I find I must
have the honour of wishing you a good morning, for I have an
indispensable engagement at home to dinner to-day."

"I thought, Sir John, you and Amelia were going to ride?"

"Ma'am, Miss Beaumont does not choose to ride--she told me, so this
instant as I passed her on the stairs. Oh! don't disturb her, I beg--she
is writing to Miss Walsingham--I have the honour to wish you a good
morning, ma'am."

"Well, if you are determined to go, let me say three words to you in
the music-room, Sir John: though," added she, in a whisper intended to
be heard by Mr. Palmer, "I know you do not look upon me as your
friend, yet depend upon it I shall treat you and all the world with
perfect candour."

Sir John, though sulky, could not avoid following the lady; and as soon
as she had shut all the doors and double-doors of the music-room, she
exclaimed, "It is always best to speak openly to one's friends. Now, my
dear Sir John Hunter, how can you be so childish as to take ill of me
what I really was forced to say, for _your_ interest, about Captain
Walsingham, to Mr. Palmer? You know old Palmer is the oddest, most
self-willed man imaginable! humour and please him I must, the few days
he is with me. You know he goes on Tuesday--that's decided--Dr. Wheeler
has seen him, has talked to him about his health, and it is absolutely
necessary that he should return to the West Indies. Then he is perfectly
determined to leave all he has to Amelia."

"Yes, ma'am; but how am I sure of being the better for that?"
interrupted Sir John, whose decided selfishness was a match for Mrs.
Beaumont's address, because it went without scruple or ceremony straight
to his object; "for, ma'am, you can't think I'm such a fool as not to
see that Mr. Palmer wishes me at the devil. Miss Beaumont gives me no
encouragement; and you, ma'am, I know, are too good a politician to
offend Mr. Palmer: so, if he declares in favour of this young _hero,_
Captain Walsingham, I may quit the field."

"But you don't consider that Mr. Palmer's young hero has never made any
proposal for Amelia."

"Pshaw! ma'am--but I know, as well as you do, that he likes her, and
propose he will for her now that he has money."

"Granting that; you forget that all this takes time, and that Palmer
will be gone to the West Indies before they can bring out their
proposal; and as soon as he is gone, and has left his will, as he means
to do, with me, you and I have the game in our own hands. It is very
extraordinary to me that you do not seem to understand my play, though I
explained the whole to Albina; and I thought she had made you comprehend
the necessity for my _seeming,_ for this one week, to be less your
friend than I could wish, because of your title, and that odd whim of
Palmer, you know: but I am sure we understand one another now."

"Excuse me," said the invincible Sir John: "I confess, Mrs. Beaumont,
you have so much more abilities, and _finesse_, and all that sort of
thing, than I have, that I cannot help being afraid of--of not
understanding the business rightly. In business there is nothing like
understanding one another, and going on sure grounds. There has been so
much going backwards and forwards, and explanations and manoeuvres, that
I am not clear how it is; nor do I feel secure even that I have the
honour of your approbation."

"What! not when I have assured you of it, Sir John, in the most
unequivocal manner?"

It was singular that the only person to whom in this affair Mrs.
Beaumont spoke the real truth should not believe her. Sir John Hunter
continued obstinately suspicious and incredulous. He had just heard that
his uncle Wigram, his rich uncle Wigram, was taken ill, and not likely
to recover. This intelligence had also reached Mrs. Beaumont, and she
was anxious to secure the baronet and the Wigram fortune for her
daughter; but nothing she could say seemed to satisfy him that she was
not double-dealing. At last, to prove to him her sincerity, she gave him
what he required, and what alone, he said, could make his mind easy,
could bring him to make up his mind--_a written assurance_ of her
approbation of his addresses to Amelia. With this he was content; "for,"
said he, "what is written remains, and there can be no misunderstandings
in future, or changing of minds."

It was agreed between these confidential friends, that Sir John should
depart, _as it were_, displeased; and she begged that he would not
return till Mr. Palmer should have left the country.

Now there was a numerous tribe of _hangers-on_, who were in the habit of
frequenting Beaumont Park, whom Mrs. Beaumont loved to see at her house;
because, besides making her feel her own importance, they were
frequently useful to carry on the subordinate parts of her perpetual
manoeuvres. Among these secondary personages who attended Mrs. Beaumont
abroad to increase her consequence in the eyes of common spectators, and
who at home filled the stage, and added to the bustle and effect, her
chief favourites were Mr. Twigg (the same gentleman who was deputed to
decide upon the belt or the screen) and Captain Lightbody. Mr. Twigg was
the most, elegant flatterer of the two, but Captain Lightbody was the
most assured, and upon the whole made his way the best. He was a
handsome man, had a good address, could tell a good story, sing a good
song, and _make things go off_ well, when there was company; so that he
was a prodigious assistance to the mistress of the house. Then he danced
with the young ladies when they had no other partners; he mounted guard
regularly beside the piano-forte, or the harp, when the ladies were
playing; and at dinner it was always the etiquette for him to sit beside
Miss Beaumont, or Miss Hunter, when the gentlemen guests were not such
as Mrs. Beaumont thought entitled to that honour, or such as she deemed
_safe_ companions. These arrangements imply that Captain Lightbody
thought himself in Mrs. Beaumont's confidence: and so he was to a
certain degree, just enough to flatter him into doing her high or low
behests. Whenever she had a report to circulate, or to contradict,
Captain Lightbody was put in play; and no man could be better calculated
for this purpose, both from his love of talking, and of locomotion. He
galloped about from place to place, and from one great house to another;
knew all the lords and ladies, and generals and colonels, and
brigade-majors and aides-de-camp, in the land. Could any mortal be
better qualified to fetch and carry news for Mrs. Beaumont? Besides
news, it was his office to carry compliments, and to speed the
intercourse, not perhaps from soul to soul, but from house to house,
which is necessary in a visiting country to keep up the character of an
agreeable neighbour. Did Mrs. Beaumont forget to send a card of
invitation, or neglect to return a visit, Lightbody was to set it to
rights for her, Lightbody, the ready bearer of pretty notes, the maker
always, the fabricator sometimes, of the civilest speeches imaginable.
This expert speechifier, this ever idle, ever busy scamperer, our
heroine dispatched to engage a neighbouring family to pay her a morning
visit the next day, just about the time which was fixed for her going to
see the Walsinghams. The usual caution was given. "Pray, Lightbody, do
not let my name be used; do not let me be mentioned; but take it upon
yourself, and say, as if from yourself, that you have reason to believe
I take it ill that they have not been here lately. And then you can
mention the hour that would be most convenient. But let me have nothing
to do with it. I must not appear in it on any account."

In consequence of Captain Lightbody's faithful execution of his secret
instructions, a barouche full of morning visitors drove to the door,
just at the time when Mrs. Beaumont had proposed to set out for
Walsingham House. Mrs. Beaumont, with a well-dissembled look of
vexation, exclaimed, as she looked out of the window at the carriage,
"How provoking! Who can these people be? I hope Martin will say I am not
at home. Ring--ring, Amelia. Oh, it's too late, they have seen me! and
Martin, stupid creature! has let them in."

Mr. Palmer was much discomfited, and grew more and more impatient when
these troublesome visitors protracted their stay, and proposed a walk to
see some improvements in the grounds.

"But, my good Mistress Beaumont," said he, "you know we are engaged
to our cousin Walsingham this morning; and if you will give me leave,
I will go on before you with Mr. Beaumont, and we can say what
detains you,"

Disconcerted by this simple determination of this straight-forward,
plain-spoken old gentleman, Mrs. Beaumont saw that farther delay on her
part would be not only inefficacious, but dangerous. She now was eager
to be relieved from the difficulties which she had herself contrived.
She would not, for any consideration, have trusted Mr. Palmer to pay
this visit without her: therefore, by an able counter-movement, she
extricated herself not only without loss, but with advantage, from this
perilous situation. She made a handsome apology to her visitors for
being obliged to run away from them. "She would leave Amelia to have the
pleasure of showing them the grounds."

Mrs. Beaumont was irresistible in her arrangements. Amelia, disappointed
and afraid to show how deeply she felt the disappointment, was obliged
to stay to do the honours of Beaumont Park, whilst her mother drove off
rejoicing in half the success, at least, of her stratagem; but even as a
politician she used upon every occasion too much artifice. It was said
of Cardinal Mazarin, he is a great politician, but in all his politics
there is one capital defect--"_C'est qu'il veut toujours tromper_."

"How tiresome those people were! I thought we never should have got away
from them," said Mrs. Beaumont. "What possessed them to come this
morning, and to pay such a horrid long visit? Besides, those Duttons, at
all times, are the most stupid creatures upon the face of the earth; I
cannot endure them; so awkward and ill-bred too! and yet of a good
family--who could think it? They are people one must see, but they are
absolutely insufferable."

"Insufferable!" said Mr. Palmer; "why, my good madam, then you have
the patience of a martyr; for you suffered them so patiently, that I
never should have guessed you suffered at all. I protest I thought
they were friends and favourites of yours, and that you were very glad
to see them."

"Well, well, 'tis the way of the world," continued Mr. Palmer; "this
sort of--what do you call it? double-dealing about visitors, goes on
every where, Madam Beaumont. But how do I know, that when I go away, you
may not be as glad to get rid of me as you were to get away from these
Duttons?" added he, in a tone of forced jocularity. "How do I know, but
that the minute my back is turned, you may not begin to take me to
pieces in my turn, and say, 'That old Palmer! he was the most tiresome,
humoursome, strange, old-fashioned fellow; I thought we should never
have got rid of him?"

"My dear, dear sir, how can you speak in such a manner?" cried Mrs.
Beaumont, who had made several vain attempts to interrupt this speech.
"You, who are our best friend! is it possible you could suspect? Is
there no difference to be made between friends and common acquaintance?"

"I am sure I hope there is," said Mr. Palmer, smiling.

There was something so near the truth in Mr. Palmer's raillery, that
Mrs. Beaumont could not take it with as much easy unconcern as the
occasion required, especially in the presence of her son, who maintained
a provoking silence. Unhappy indeed are those, who cannot, in such
moments of distress, in their own families, and in their nearest
connexions, find any relief from their embarrassments, and who look
round in vain for one to be _responsible_ for their sincerity. Mrs.
Beaumont sat uneasy and almost disconcerted. Mr. Palmer felt for his
snuff-box, his usual consolation; but it was not in his pocket: he had
left it on his table. Now Mrs. Beaumont was relieved, for she had
something to do, and something to say with her wonted politeness: in
spite of all remonstrance from Mr. Palmer, her man Martin was sent back
for the snuff-box; and conjectures about his finding it, and his being
able to overtake them before they arrived at Walsingham house, supplied
conversation for a mile or two.

"Here's Martin coming back full gallop, I vow," said Miss Hunter, who
could also talk on this topic.

"Come, come, my good lady," said Mr. Palmer, (taking the moment when the
young lady had turned her back as she stretched out of the carriage for
the pleasure of seeing Martin gallop)--"Come, come, my good Mrs.
Beaumont, shake hands and be friends, and hang the Duttons! I did not
mean to vex you by what I said. I am not so polite as I should be, I
know, and you perhaps are a little too polite. But that is no great
harm, especially in a woman."

Martin and the snuff-box came up at this instant; and all was apparently
as well as ever. Yet Mrs. Beaumont, who valued a reputation for
sincerity as much as Chartres valued a reputation for honesty, and
nearly upon the same principle, was seriously vexed that even this
transient light had been let in upon her real character. To such
_accidents_ duplicity is continually subject.




CHAPTER IX.

    "Led by Simplicity divine,
    She pleased, and never tried to shine;
    She gave to chance each unschool'd feature,
    And left her cause to sense and nature."--MORE.


Arrived at Walsingham Park, they met Miss Walsingham walking at some
distance from the house.

"Is Captain Walsingham come?" was the first question asked. "No, but
expected every hour."

That he had not actually arrived was a comfortable reprieve to Mrs.
Beaumont. Breathing more freely, and in refreshed spirits, she prepared
to alight from her carriage, to walk to the house with Miss Walsingham,
as Mr. Palmer proposed. Miss Hunter, who was dressed with uncommon
elegance, remonstrated in favour of her delicate slippers: not that she
named the real object of her solicitude--no; she had not spent so much
time with Mrs. Beaumont, that great mistress of the art of apologizing,
without learning at least the inferior practices of the trade. Of course
she had all the little common arts of excuse ever ready: and instead of
saying that she did not like to walk because she was afraid to spoil her
shoes, she protested she was afraid of the heat, and could not walk so
far. But Mr. Beaumont had jumped out of the carriage, and Mrs. Beaumont
did not wish that he should walk home _tête-à-tête_ with Miss
Walsingham; therefore Miss Hunter's remonstrances were of no avail.

"My love, you, will not be heated, for our walk is through this charming
shady grove; and if you are tired, here's my son will give you his arm."

Satisfied with this arrangement, the young lady, thus supported, found
it possible to walk. Mr. Palmer walked his own pace, looking round at
the beauties of the place, and desiring that nobody might mind him. This
was his way, and Mrs. Beaumont never teased him with talking to him,
when he did not seem to be in the humour for it. She, who made something
of every thing, began to manage the conversation with her other
companions during the walk, so as to favour her views upon the several
parties. Pursuing her principle, that love is in men's minds generally
independent of esteem, and believing that her son might be rendered
afraid of the superiority of Miss Walsingham's understanding, Mrs.
Beaumont took treacherous pains to _draw her out_. Starting from chance
seemingly, as she well knew how, a subject of debate, she went from
talking of the late marriage of some neighbouring couple, to discuss a
question on which she believed that Miss Walsingham's opinion would
differ from that of her son. The point was, whether a wife should or
should not have pin-money. Miss Walsingham thought that a wife's
accepting it would tend to establish a separate interest between married
people. Mr. Beaumont, on the contrary, was of opinion, that a wife's
having a separate allowance would prevent disputes. So Miss Hunter
thought, of course, for she had been prepared to be precisely of Mr.
Beaumont's opinion; but reasons she had none in its support. Indeed, she
said with a pretty simper, she thought that women had nothing to do with
reason or reasoning; that she thought a woman who really loved _any
body_ was always of that person's opinion; and especially in a wife she
did not see of what use reasoning and _all that_ could be, except to
make a woman contradict, and be odd, and fond of ruling: that for her
part she had no pretensions to any understanding, and if she had ever so
much, she should be glad, she declared upon her honour, to get rid of it
if she could; for what use could it possibly be of to her, when it must
be the husband's understanding that must always judge and rule, and a
wife ought only to obey, and be always of the opinion of the man of her
choice?--Having thus made her profession of folly in broken sentences,
with pretty confusion and all-becoming graces, she leaned upon Mr.
Beaumont's arm with a bewitching air of languid delicacy, that solicited
support. Mrs. Beaumont, suppressing a sigh, which, however, she took
care that her son should hear, turned to Miss Walsingham, and, in a
whisper, owned that she could not help loving abilities, and spirit too,
even in her own sex. Then she observed aloud, that much might be urged
on her side of the question with regard to pin-money; for not only, as
Miss Walsingham justly said, it might tend to make a separate interest
between husband and wife, but the wife would probably be kept in total
ignorance of her husband's affairs; and _that_ in some cases might be
very disadvantageous, as some women are more capable, from their
superior understanding, of managing every thing than most men, indeed,
than any man she could name.

Even under favour of this pretty compliment, which was plainly directed
by a glance of Mrs. Beaumont's eye, Miss Walsingham would not accept of
this painful pre-eminence. She explained and made it clear, that she had
not any ambition to rule or manage.

"That I can readily believe," said Mr. Beaumont; "for I have observed,
that it is not always the women who are the most able to decide who are
the most ambitious to govern."

This observation either was not heard or was not understood by Miss
Hunter, whose whole soul was occupied in settling some fold of her
drapery: but Mr. Beaumont's speech had its full effect on Mrs. Beaumont,
who bit her lip, and looked reproachfully at her son, as if she thought
this an infringement of his promised truce. A moment afterwards she felt
the imprudence of her own reproachful look, and was sensible that she
would have done better not to have fixed the opinion or feeling in her
son's mind by noticing it thus with displeasure. Recovering, herself,
for she never was disconcerted for more than half a minute, she passed
on with easy grace to discuss the merits of the heroine of some new
novel--an historic novel, which gave her opportunity of appealing to
Miss Walsingham on some disputed points of history. She dexterously
attempted to draw her _well-informed_ young friend into a display of
literature which might alarm Mr. Beaumont. His education had in some
respects been shamefully neglected; for his mother had calculated that
ignorance would ensure dependence. He had endeavoured to supply, at a
late period of his education, the defects of its commencement; but he
was sensible that he had not supplied all his deficiencies, and he was
apt to feel, with painful impatient sensibility, his inferiority,
whenever literary subjects were introduced. Miss Walsingham, however,
was so perfectly free from all the affectation and vanity of a
bel-esprit, that she did not alarm even those who were inferior to her
in knowledge; their self-complacency, instead of being depressed by the
comparison of their attainments with hers, was insensibly raised, by the
perception that notwithstanding these, she could take pleasure in their
conversation, could appreciate their good sense or originality of
thought, without recurring to the authority of books, or of great names.
In fact, her mind had never been overwhelmed by a wasteful torrent of
learning. That the stream of literature had passed over, it was apparent
only from its fertility. Mrs. Beaumont repented of having drawn her into
conversation. Indeed, our heroine had trusted too much to some
expressions, which had at times dropped from her son, about _learned
ladies_, and certain _conversaziones_. She had concluded that he would
never endure literature in a wife; but she now perceived her mistake.
She discerned it too late; and at this moment she was doubly vexed, for
she saw Miss Hunter _produce_ herself in most disadvantageous contrast
to her rival. In conformity to instructions, which Mrs. Beaumont had
secretly given her, not to show too much sense or learning, because
gentlemen in general, and in particular Mr. Beaumont, disliked it; this
young lady now professed absolute ignorance and incapacity upon all
subjects; and meaning to have an air of pretty childish innocence or
timidity, really made herself appear quite like a simpleton. At the same
time a tinge of ineffectual malice and envy appeared through her
ill-feigned humility. She could give no opinion of any book--oh, she
would not give any judgment for the whole world! She did not think
herself qualified to speak, even if she had read the book, which indeed
she had not, for, really, she never read--she was not a _reading lady_.

As Miss Hunter had no portion of Mrs. Beaumont's quick penetration, she
did not see the unfavourable impression these words made: certain that
she was following exactly her secret instructions, she was confident of
being in the right line; so on she went, whilst Mrs. Beaumont sighed in
vain; and Miss Walsingham, who now saw and understood her whole play,
almost smiled at the comic of the scene.

"O dear, Mrs. Beaumont," continued Miss Hunter, "how can you ever appeal
to me about books and those sorts of things, when you know I know
nothing about the matter? For mercy's sake, never do so any more, for
you know I've no taste for those sorts of things. And besides, I own,
even if I could, I should so hate to be thought a blue-stocking--I would
not have the least bit of blue in my stockings for the whole world--I'd
rather have any other colour, black, white, red, green, yellow, any
other colour. So I own I'm not sorry I'm not what they call a genius;
for though genius to be sure's a very fascinating sort of thing in
gentlemen, yet in women it is not so becoming, I think, especially in
ladies: it does very well on the stage, and for artists, and so on; but
really now, in company, I think it's an awkward thing, and would make
one look so odd! Now, Mr. Beaumont, I must tell you an anecdote--"

"Stop, my dear Miss Hunter, your ear-ring is coming out. Stay! let me
clasp it, love!" exclaimed Mrs. Beaumont, determined to stop her in the
career of nonsense, by giving her sensations, since she could not give
her ideas, a new turn.

"Oh, ma'am! ma'am! Oh! my ear! you are killing me, dearest Mrs.
Beaumont! pinching me to death, ma'am!"

"Did I pinch, my dear? It was the hinge of the ear-ring, I suppose."

"I don't know what it was; but here's blood, I declare!"

"My love, I beg you a thousand pardons. How could I be so awkward! But
why could not you for one moment hold your little head still?"

Miss Walsingham applied a patch to the wound.

"Such a pretty ear as it is," continued Mrs. Beaumont; "I am sure it was
a pity to hurt it."

"You really did hurt it," said Mr. Beaumont, in a tone of compassion.

"Oh, horridly!" cried Miss Hunter--"and I, that always faint at the
sight of blood!"

Afraid that the young lady would again spoil her part in the acting, and
lose all the advantages which might result from the combined effect of
the pretty ear and of compassion, Mrs. Beaumont endeavoured to take off
her attention from the wound, by attacking her ear-rings.

"My love," said she, "don't wear these ear-rings any more, for I assure
you there is no possibility of shutting or opening them, without
hurting you."

This expedient, however, nearly proved fatal in its consequences. Miss
Hunter entered most warmly into the defence of her ear-rings; and
appealed to Mr. Beaumont to confirm her decision, that they were the
prettiest and best ear-rings in the world. Unluckily, they did not
particularly suit his fancy, and the young lady, who had, but half an
hour before, professed that she could never be of a different opinion in
any thing from that of the man she loved, now pettishly declared that
she could not and would not give up her taste. Incensed still more by a
bow of submission, but not of conviction, from Mr. Beaumont, she went on
regardless of her dearest Mrs. Beaumont's frowns, and vehemently
maintained her judgment, quoting, with triumphant volubility,
innumerable precedents of ladies, "who had just bought _the very same_
ear-rings, and whose taste she believed nobody would dispute."

Mr. Beaumont had seen enough, now and upon many other occasions, to be
convinced that it is not on matters of consequence that ladies are apt
to grow most angry; and he stood confirmed in his belief that those who
in theory professed to have such a humble opinion of their own abilities
that they cannot do or understand any thing useful, are often, in
practice, the most prone to insist upon the infallibility of their taste
and judgment. Mrs. Beaumont, who saw with one glance of her quick eye
what passed at this moment in her son's mind, sighed, and said to
herself--"How impossible to manage a fool, who ravels, as fast as one
weaves, the web of her fortune!"

Yet though Mrs. Beaumont perceived and acknowledged the impracticability
of managing a fool for a single hour, it was one of the favourite
objects of her manoeuvres to obtain this very fool for a
daughter-in-law, with the hope of governing her for life. So
inconsistent are cunning people, even of the best abilities; so ill do
they calculate the value of their ultimate objects, however ingeniously
they devise their means, or adapt them to their ends.

During this walk Mr. Palmer had taken no part in the conversation; he
had seemed engrossed with his own thoughts, or occupied with observing
the beauties of the place. Tired with her walk--for Mrs. Beaumont always
complained of being fatigued when she was vexed, thus at once concealing
her vexation, and throwing the faults of her mind upon her body--she
stretched herself upon a sofa as soon as she reached the house, nor did
she recover from her exhausted state till she cast her eyes upon a
tamborine, which she knew would afford means of showing Miss Hunter's
figure and graces to advantage. Slight as this resource may seem, Mrs.
Beaumont well knew that slighter still have often produced great
effects. Soon afterward she observed her son smile repeatedly as he read
a passage in some book that lay upon the table, and she had the
curiosity to take up the book when he turned away. She found that it was
Cumberland's Memoirs, and saw the following little poem marked with
reiterated lines of approbation:

   "Why, Affectation, why this mock grimace?
    Go, silly thing, and hide that simp'ring face.
    Thy lisping prattle, and thy mincing gait,
    All thy false mimic fooleries I hate;
    For thou art Folly's counterfeit, and she
    Who is right foolish hath the better plea;
    Nature's true idiot I prefer to thee.

    Why that soft languish? Why that drawling tone?
    Art sick, art sleepy? Get thee hence: begone.
    I laugh at all thy pretty baby tears,
    Those flutt'rings, faintings, and unreal fears.

    Can they deceive us? Can such mumm'ries move,
    Touch us with pity, or inspire with love?
    No, Affectation, vain is all thy art!
    Those eyes may wander over ev'ry part;
    They'll never find their passage to the heart."

Mrs. Beaumont, the moment she had read these lines, perceived why her
son had smiled. The portrait seemed really to have been drawn from Miss
Hunter, and the lines were so _à propos_ to the scene which had just
passed during the walk, that it was impossible to avoid the application.
Mrs. Beaumont shut the book hastily as her dear Albina approached, for
she was afraid that the young lady would have known her own picture. So
few people, however, even of those much wiser than Miss Hunter, know
themselves, that she need not have been alarmed. But she had no longer
leisure to devote her thoughts to this subject, for Mr. Walsingham, who
had been out riding, had by this time returned; and the moment he
entered the room, Mrs. Beaumont's attention was directed to him and to
Mr. Palmer. She introduced them to each other, with many expressions of
regret that they should not sooner have met.

Characters that are free from artifice immediately coalesce, as metals
that are perfectly pure can be readily cemented together. Mr. Palmer and
Mr. Walsingham were intimate in half an hour. There was an air of
openness and sincerity about Mr. Walsingham; a freedom and directness in
his conversation, which delighted Mr. Palmer.

"I am heartily glad we have met at last, my good cousin Walsingham,"
said he: "very sorry should I have been to have left the country without
becoming acquainted with you: and now I wish your gallant captain was
arrived. I am to set off the day after to-morrow, and I am sadly afraid
I shall miss seeing him."

Mr. Walsingham said, that as they expected him every hour, he hoped
Mr. Palmer would persuade Mrs. Beaumont to spend the day at
Walsingham House.

Mrs. Beaumont dared not object. On the contrary, it was now her policy
to pretend the fondest friendship for all the Walsingham family: yet,
all the time, pursuing her plan of preventing Mr. Palmer from discerning
their real characters and superior merit, she managed with great
dexterity to keep the conversation as much as possible upon general
topics, and tried to prevent Mr. Palmer from being much alone with Mr.
Walsingham, for she dreaded their growing intimacy. After dinner,
however, when the ladies retired, the gentlemen drew their chairs close
together, and had a great deal of conversation on interesting subjects.
The most interesting was Captain Walsingham: Mr. Palmer earnestly
desired to hear the particulars of his history.

"And from whom," said young Beaumont, turning to Mr. Walsingham, "can he
hear them better than from Captain Walsingham's guardian and friend?"




CHAPTER X.

    "Yet never seaman more serenely brave
    Led Britain's conquering squadrons o'er the wave."


"Friends are not always the best biographers," said Mr. Walsingham; "but
I will try to be impartial. My ward's first desire to be a sailor was
excited, as he has often since told me, by reading Robinson Crusoe. When
he was scarcely thirteen he went out in the Resolute, a frigate, under
the command of Captain Campbell. Campbell was an excellent officer, and
very strict in all that related to order and discipline. It was his
principle and his practice never to forgive _a first offence_; by which
the number of second faults was considerably diminished. My ward was not
much pleased at first with his captain; but he was afterwards convinced
that this strictness was what made a man of him. He was buffeted about,
and shown the rough of life; made to work hard, and submit to authority.
To reason he was always ready to yield; and by degrees he learned that
his first duty as a sailor was implicit obedience. In due time he was
made lieutenant: in this situation, his mixed duties of command and
obedience were difficult, because his first-lieutenant, the captain's
son, was jealous of him.

"Walsingham found it a more difficult task to win the confidence of the
son than it had been to earn the friendship of the father. His
punctuality in obeying orders, and his respectful manner to the
lieutenant, availed but little; for young Campbell still viewed him with
scornful yet with jealous eyes, imagining that he only wanted to show
himself the better officer.

"Of the falsehood of these suspicions Walsingham had at last an
opportunity of giving unquestionable proof. It happened one day that
Lieutenant Campbell, impatient at seeing a sailor doing some work
awkwardly on the outside of the vessel, snatched the rope from his hand,
and swore he would do it himself. In his hurry, Campbell missed his
footing, and fell overboard:--he could not swim. Walsingham had the
presence of mind to order the ship to be put about, and plunged
instantly into the water to save his rival. With much exertion he
reached Campbell, supported him till the boat was lowered down, and got
him safe aboard again."

"Just like himself!" cried young Beaumont; "all he ever wanted was
opportunity to show his soul."

"The first-lieutenant's jealousy was now changed into gratitude,"
continued Mr. Walsingham; "and from this time forward, instead of
suffering from that petty rivalship by which he used to be obstructed,
Walsingham enjoyed the entire confidence of young Campbell. This good
understanding between him and his brother officer not only made their
every day lives pleasant, but in times of difficulty secured success.
For three years that they lived together after this period, and during
which time they were ordered to every quarter of the globe, they never
had the slightest dispute, either in the busiest or the idlest times. At
length, in some engagement with a Dutch ship, the particulars of which I
forget, Lieutenant Campbell was mortally wounded: his last words
were--'Walsingham, comfort my father.' That was no easy task. Stern as
Captain Campbell seemed, the loss of his son was irreparable. He never
shed a tear when he was told it was all over, but said, 'God's will be
done;' and turning into his cabin, desired to be left alone. Half an
hour afterwards he sent for Walsingham, who found him quite calm. 'We
must see and do our duty together to the last,' said he.

"He exerted himself strenuously, and to all outward appearance was, as
the sailors said, the same man as ever; but Walsingham, who knew him
better, saw that his heart was broken, and that he wished for nothing
but an honourable death. One morning as he was on deck looking through
his glass, he called to Walsingham; 'Your eyes are better than mine,'
said he; 'look here, and tell me, do you see yonder sail--she's French?
Le Magnanime frigate, if I'm not mistaken. 'Yes,' said Walsingham, 'I
know her by the patch in her main sail.'--'We'll give her something to
do,' said Campbell, 'though she's so much our superior. Please God,
before the sun's over our heads, you shall have her in tow, Walsingham.'
'_We_ shall, I trust,' said Walsingham.--'Perhaps not _we_; for I own I
wish to fall,' said Campbell. 'You are first-lieutenant now; I can't
leave my men under better command, and I hope the Admiralty will give
you the ship, if you give it to his Majesty.'--Then turning to the
sailors, Captain Campbell addressed them with a countenance unusually
cheerful; and, after a few words of encouragement, gave orders to clear
decks for action. 'Walsingham, you'll see to every thing whilst I step
down to write.' He wrote, as it was afterwards found, two letters, both
concerning Walsingham's interests. The frigate with which they had to
engage was indeed far superior to them in force; but Campbell trusted to
the good order and steadiness as well as to the courage of his men. The
action was long and obstinate. Twice the English attempted to board the
enemy, and twice were repulsed. The third time, just as Captain Campbell
had seized hold of the French colours, which hung in rags over the side
of the enemy's ship, he received a wound in his breast, fell back into
Walsingham's arms, and almost instantly expired. The event of this day
was different from what Campbell had expected, for _Le Succès_ of fifty
guns appeared in sight; and, after a desperate engagement with her, in
which Walsingham was severely wounded, and every other officer on board
killed or wounded, Walsingham saw that nothing was left but to make a
wanton sacrifice of the remainder of his crew, or to strike.

"After a contest of six hours, he struck to _Le Succès_. Perfect silence
on his deck; a loud and insulting shout from the enemy!

"No sooner had Walsingham struck, than La Force, the captain of _Le
Succès_ hailed him, and ordered him to come in his own boat, and to
deliver his sword. Walsingham replied, that 'his sword, so demanded,
should never be delivered but with his life.'[2] The Frenchman did not
think proper to persist; but soon after sent his lieutenant on board
the Resolute, where the men were found at their quarters with lighted
matches in their hands, ready to be as good as their word. La Force,
the captain of _Le Succès_, was a sailor of fortune, who had risen by
chance, not merit."

"Ay, ay," interrupted Mr. Palmer, "so I thought; and there was no great
merit, or glory either, in a French fifty gun taking an English frigate,
after standing a six hours' contest with another ship. Well, my dear
sir, what became of poor Walsingham? How did this rascally Frenchman
treat his prisoners?"

"Scandalously!" cried Beaumont; "and yet Walsingham is so generous that
he will never let me damn the nation, for what he says was only the
fault of an individual, who disgraced it."

"Well, let me hear and judge for myself," said Mr. Palmer.

"La Force carried the Resolute in triumph into a French port," continued
Mr. Walsingham. "Vain of displaying his prisoners, he marched them up
the country, under pretence that they would not be safe in a sea-port.
Cambray was the town in which they were confined. Walsingham found the
officers of the garrison very civil to him at first; but when they saw
that he was not fond of high play, and that he declined being of their
parties at billiards and _vingt-un_, they grew tired of him; for without
these resources they declared they should perish with _ennui_ in a
country town. Even under the penalty of losing all society, Walsingham
resisted every temptation to game, and submitted to live with the
strictest economy rather than to run in debt."

"But did you never send him any money? Or did not he get your
remittances?" said Mr. Palmer.

"My dear sir, by some delays of letters, we did not hear for two months
where he was imprisoned."

"And he was reduced to the greatest distress," pursued Beaumont; "for he
had shared all he had, to the utmost farthing, with his poor
fellow-prisoners."

"Like a true British sailor!" said Mr. Palmer. "Well, sir, I hope he
contrived to make his escape?"

"No, for he would not break his parole," said Beaumont,

"His parole! I did not know he was on his parole," said Mr. Palmer.
"Then certainly he could not break it."

"He had two tempting opportunities, I can assure you," said Beaumont;
"one offered by the commandant's lady, who was not insensible to his
merit; the other, by the gratitude of some poor servant, whom he had
obliged--Mr. Walsingham can tell you all the particulars."

"No, I need not detail the circumstances; it is enough to tell you, sir,
that he withstood the temptations, would not break his parole, and
remained four months a prisoner in Cambray. Like the officers of the
garrison, he should have drunk or gamed, or else he must have died of
vexation, he says, if he had not fortunately had a taste for reading,
and luckily procured books from a good old priest's library. At the end
of four months the garrison of Cambray was changed; and instead of a set
of dissipated officers, there came a well-conducted regiment, under the
command of M. de Villars, an elderly officer of sense and discretion."

"An excellent man!" cried Beaumont: "I love him with all my soul, though
I never saw him. But I beg your pardon for interrupting you, Mr.
Walsingham."

"A prattling hairdresser at Cambray first prepossessed M. de Villars in
Walsingham's favour, by relating a number of anecdotes intended to throw
abuse and ridicule upon the English captain, to convict him of
misanthropy and economy; of having had his hair dressed but twice since
he came to Cambray; of never having frequented the society of Madame la
Marquise de Marsillac, the late commandant's lady, for more than a
fortnight after his arrival, and of having actually been detected in
working with his own hand with smiths' and carpenters' tools. Upon the
strength of the hairdresser's information, M. de Villars paid the
English captain a visit; was pleased by his conversation, and by all
that he observed of his conduct and character.

"As M. de Villars was going down stairs, after having spent an evening
with Walsingham, a boy of twelve years old, the son of the master of the
lodging-house, equipped in a military uniform, stood across the
landing-place, as if determined to, stop him. 'Mon petit militaire,'
said the commandant, 'do you mean to dispute my passage?' 'Non, mon
général,' said the boy; 'I know my duty too well. But I post myself here
to demand an audience, for I have a secret of importance to
communicate.' M. de Villars, smiling at the boy's air of consequence,
yet pleased with the steady earnestness of his manner, took him by the
hand into an antechamber, and said that he was ready to listen to
whatever he had to impart. The boy then told him that he had
accidentally overheard a proposal which had been made to facilitate the
English captain's escape, and that the captain refused to comply with
it, because it was not honourable to break his parole. The boy, who had
been struck by the circumstance, and who, besides, was grateful to
Walsingham for some little instances of kindness, spoke with much
enthusiasm in his favour; and, as M. de Villars afterwards repeated,
finished his speech by exclaiming, 'I would give every thing I have in
the world, except my sword and my honour, to procure this English
captain his liberty.'

"M. de Villars was pleased with the boy's manner, and with the fact
which he related; so much so, that he promised, that if Walsingham's
liberty could be obtained he would procure it. 'And you, my good little
friend, shall, if I succeed,' added he, 'have the pleasure of being the
first to tell him the good news.'

"Some days afterwards, the boy burst into Walsingham's room, exclaiming,
'Liberty! liberty! you are at liberty!'--He danced and capered with such
wild joy, that it was some time before Walsingham could obtain any
explanation, or could prevail on him to let him look at a letter which
he held in his hand, flourishing it about in triumph. At last he showed
that it was an order from M. de Villars, for the release of Captain
Walsingham, and of all the English prisoners, belonging to the Resolute,
for whom exchanges had been effected. No favour could be granted in a
manner more honourable to all the parties concerned. Walsingham arrived
in England without any farther difficulties."

"Thank God!" said Mr. Palmer. "Well, now he has touched English ground
again, I have some hopes for him. What next?"

"The first thing he did, of course, was to announce his return to the
Admiralty. A court-martial was held at Portsmouth; and, fortunately for
him, was composed of officers of the highest distinction, so that the
first men in his profession became thoroughly acquainted with the
circumstances of his conduct. The enthusiasm with which his men bore
testimony in his favour was gratifying to his feelings, and the minutes
of the evidence were most honourable to him. The court pronounced, that
Lieutenant Walsingham had done all that could be effected by the most
gallant and judicious officer in the defence of His Majesty's ship
Resolute. The ministry who had employed Captain Campbell were no longer
in place, and one of the Lords of the Admiralty at this time happened
to have had some personal quarrel with him. A few days after the trial,
Walsingham was at a public dinner, at which Campbell's character became
the subject of conversation. Walsingham was warned, in a whisper, that
the first Lord of the Admiralty's private secretary was present, and
was advised to be _prudent_; but Walsingham's prudence was not of that
sort which can coolly hear a worthy man's memory damned with faint
praise; his prudence was not of that sort which can tamely sit by and
see a friend's reputation in danger. With all the warmth and eloquence
of friendship, he spoke in Captain Campbell's defence, and paid a just
and energetic tribute of praise to his memory. He spoke, and not a word
more was said against Campbell. The politicians looked down upon their
plates; and there was a pause of that sort, which sometimes in a
company of interested men of the world results from surprise at the
imprudent honesty of a good-natured novice. Walsingham, as the company
soon afterwards broke up, heard one gentleman say of him to another, as
they went away, 'There's a fellow now, who has ruined himself without
knowing it, and all for a dead man.' It was not without knowing it:
Walsingham was well aware what he hazarded, but he was then, and ever,
ready to sacrifice his own interests in the defence of truth and of a
friend. For two long years afterwards, Walsingham was, in the technical
and elegant phrase, _left on the shelf, and the door of promotion was
shut against him."_

"Yes, and there he might have remained till now," said Beaumont, "if it
had not been for that good Mr. Gaspar, a clerk in one of their offices;
a man who, though used to live among courtiers and people hackneyed in
the political ways of the world, was a plain, warm-hearted friend, a man
of an upright character, who prized integrity and generosity the more
because he met with them so seldom. But I beg your pardon, Mr.
Walsingham; will you go on and tell Mr. Palmer how and why Gaspar served
our friend?"

"One day Walsingham had occasion to go to Mr. Gaspar's office to search
for some papers relative to certain charts which he had drawn, and
intended to present to the Admiralty. In talking of the soundings of
some bay he had taken whilst out with Captain Campbell, he mentioned
him, as he always did, with terms of affection and respect. Mr. Gaspar
immediately asked, 'Are you, sir, that Lieutenant Walsingham, of the
Resolute, who at a public dinner about two years ago made such a
disinterested defence of your captain? If it is in my power to serve
you, depend upon it I will. Leave your charts with me; I think I may
have an opportunity of turning them to your advantage, and that of the
service.' Gaspar, who was thoroughly in earnest, took a happy moment to
present Walsingham's charts before the Admiralty, just at a time when
they were wanted. The Admiralty were glad to employ an officer who had
some local information, and they sent him out in the Dreadnought, a
thirty-six gun frigate, with Captain Jemmison, to the West Indies."

"And what sort of a man was his new captain?" said Mr. Palmer.

"As unlike his old one as possible," said Beaumont.

"Yes," continued Mr. Walsingham; "in every point, except courage,
Captain Jemmison was as complete a contrast as could be imagined to
Captain Campbell. Whatever else he might be, Jemmison was certainly a
man of undaunted courage."

"That's of course, if he was a captain in the British navy," said
Mr. Palmer.

"From his appearance, however, you would never have taken him for a
gallant sailor," said Mr. Walsingham: "abhorring the rough, brutal,
swearing, grog-drinking, tobacco-chewing, race of sea-officers, the Bens
and the Mirvans of former times, Captain Jemmison, resolving, I suppose,
to avoid their faults, went into the contrary extreme of refinement and
effeminacy. A superlative coxcomb, and an epicure more from fashion than
taste, he gloried in descanting, with technical precision, on the merits
of dishes and of cooks. His table, even on shipboard, was to be equalled
in elegance only by his toilet."

"The puppy!" exclaimed Mr. Palmer. "And how could Captain Walsingham go
on with such a coxcomb?"

"Very ill, you may be sure," said Beaumont; "for Walsingham, I'll answer
for it, never could conceal or control his feelings of contempt or
indignation."

"Yet, as Captain Jemmison's lieutenant, he always behaved with perfect
propriety," said Mr. Walsingham, "and bore with his foppery and
impertinence with the patience becoming a subordinate officer to his
superior. Jemmison could not endure a lieutenant whose character and
manners were a continual contrast and reproach to his own, and he
disliked him the more because he could never provoke him to any
disrespect. Jemmison often replied even to Walsingham's silent contempt;
as a French pamphleteer once published a book entitled, _Réponse au
Silence de M. de la Motte_. On some points, where duty and principle
were concerned, Walsingham, however, could not be silent. There was a
lad of the name of Birch on board the Dreadnought, whom Walsingham had
taken under his immediate care, and whom he was endeavouring to train up
in every good habit. Jemmison, to torment Walsingham, made it his
pleasure to counteract him in these endeavours, and continually did all
he could to spoil Birch by foolish indulgence. Walsingham's indignation
was upon these occasions vehement, and his captain and he came to
frequent quarrels. Young Birch, who had sense enough to know which was
his true friend, one day threw himself on his knees to beseech his
lieutenant not to hazard so much on his account, and solemnly swore that
he would never be guilty of the slightest excess or negligence during
the remainder of the voyage. The young man was steady to his promise,
and by his resolution and temper prevented Walsingham and his captain
from coming to a serious rupture. When they arrived at their place of
destination, Jamaica, Captain Jemmison went on shore to divert himself,
and spent his time in great dissipation at Spanish Town, eating,
dressing, dancing, gallanting, and glorying in its being observed by all
the ladies that he had nothing of a sea-captain about him. The other
officers, encouraged by his precept and example, left the ship; but
Walsingham stayed on board, and had severe duty to perform, for he could
not allow the crew to go on shore, because they got into riots with the
townspeople. Soon after their arrival, and even during the course of
their voyage, he had observed among the sailors something like a
disposition to mutiny, encouraged probably by the negligence and
apparent effeminacy of their captain. Though they knew him to be a man
of intrepidity, yet they ridiculed and despised his coxcombry, and his
relaxation of discipline gave them hopes of succeeding in their mutinous
schemes. Walsingham strongly and repeatedly represented to Captain
Jemmison the danger, and remonstrated with him and the other officers
upon the imprudence of leaving the ship at this juncture; but Jemmison,
in a prettily rounded period, protested he saw no penumbra of danger,
and that till he was called upon by Mars, he owned he preferred the
charms of Venus.

"This was vastly elegant; but, nevertheless, it happened one night, when
the captain, after having eaten an admirable supper, was paying his
court to a Creole lady of Spanish Town, news was brought him, that the
crew of the Dreadnought had mutinied, and that Lieutenant Walsingham was
killed. One half of the report was true, and the other nearly so. At
midnight, after having been exhausted during the preceding week by his
vigilance, Walsingham had just thrown himself into his cot, when he was
roused by Birch at his cabin-door, crying, 'A mutiny! a mutiny on
deck!'--Walsingham seized his drawn cutlass, and ran up the ladder,
determined to cut down the ringleader; but just as he reached the top,
the sailors shut down the hatchway, which struck his head with such
violence, that he fell, stunned, and, to all appearance, dead. Birch
contrived, in the midst of the bustle, before he was himself seized by
the mutineers, to convey, by signals to shore, news of what had
happened. But Captain Jemmison could now be of no use. Before he could
take any measures to prevent them, the mutineers weighed anchor, and the
Dreadnought, under a brisk breeze, was out of the bay; all the other
vessels in the harbour taking it for granted that her captain was on
board, and that she was sailing under orders. In the mean time, whilst
Walsingham was senseless, the sailors stowed him into his cabin, and set
a guard over him. The ringleader, Jefferies, a revengeful villain, who
bore malice against him for some just punishment, wanted to murder him,
but the rest would not consent. Some would not dip their hands in blood;
others pleaded for him, and said that he was never cruel. One man urged,
that the lieutenant had been kind to him when he was sick. Another
suggested, that it would be well to keep him alive to manage the ship
for them, in case of difficulties. Conscious of their ignorance, they
acceded to this advice; Jefferies' proposal to murder him was overruled:
and it was agreed to keep Walsingham close prisoner till they should
need his assistance. He had his timekeeper and log-book locked up with
him, which were totally forgotten by these miscreants. Never seaman
prayed more fervently for fair weather than Walsingham now did for a
storm. At last, one night he heard (and he says it was one of the
pleasantest sounds he ever heard in his life) the wind rising. Soon it
blew a storm. He heard one of the sailors say--'A stiff gale, Jack!' and
another--'An ugly night!' Presently, great noise on deck, and the pumps
at work. Every moment he now expected a deputation from the mutineers.
The first person he saw was the carpenter, who came in to knock in the
dead lights in the cabin windows. The man was surly, and would give no
answer to any questions; but Walsingham knew, by the hurry of his work,
that the fellow thought there was no time to be lost. Twice, before he
could finish what he was about, messages came from _Captain Jefferies,_
to order him to something else. Then a violent crash above from the fall
of a mast; and then he heard one cry--'I'll be cursed if I should care,
if we did but know where-abouts we are.' Then all was in such uproar,
that no voices could be distinguished. At last his cabin-door unlocked,
and many voices called upon him at once to come upon deck that instant
and save the ship. Walsingham absolutely refused to do any thing for
them till they returned to their duty, delivered up to him their arms,
and their ringleader, Jefferies. At this answer they stood aghast. Some
tried entreaties, some threats: all in vain. Walsingham coolly said, he
would go to the bottom along with the ship rather than say a word to
save them, till they submitted. The storm blew stronger--the danger
every moment increasing. One of the mutineers came with a drawn cutlass,
another levelled a blunderbuss at Walsingham, swearing to despatch him
that instant, if he would not tell them where they were. 'Murder me, and
you will be hanged; persist in your mutiny, you'll be drowned,' said
Walsingham. 'You'll never make me swerve from my duty--and you know
it--you have my answer.' The enraged sailors seized him in their arms,
and carried him by force upon deck, where the sight of the danger, and
the cries of 'Throw him overboard!--over with him!' only seemed to
fortify his resolution. Not a word, not a sign could they get from him.
The rudder was now unshipped! At this the sailors' fury turned suddenly
upon Jefferies, who between terror and ignorance was utterly
incapacitated. They seized, bound, gave him up to Walsingham, returned
to their duty; and then, and not till then, Walsingham resumed his
command. Walsingham's voice, once more heard, inspired confidence, and
with the hopes revived the exertions of the sailors. I am not seaman
enough to tell you how the ship was saved; but that it was saved, and
saved by Walsingham, is certain. I remember only, that he made the ship
manageable by some contrivance, which he substituted in the place of the
rudder that had been unshipped. The storm abating, he made for the first
port, to repair the ship's damages, intending to return to Jamaica, to
deliver her up to her captain; but, from a vessel they spoke at sea, he
learned that Jemmison was gone to England in a merchantman. To England
then Walsingham prepared to follow."

"And with this rebel crew!" cried Beaumont; "think, Mr. Palmer, what a
situation he was in, knowing, as he did, that every rascal of them would
sooner go to the devil than go home, where they knew they must be tried
for their mutiny."

"Well, sir, well!" said Mr. Palmer. "Did they run away with the ship a
second time? or how did he manage?"

He called them all one morning together on deck; and pointing to the
place where the gunpowder was kept, he said--'I have means of blowing up
the ship. If ever you attempt to mutiny again, the first finger you lay
upon me, I blow her up instantly.' They had found him to be a man of
resolution. They kept to their duty. Not a symptom of disobedience
during the rest of the voyage. In their passage they fell in with an
enemy's ship, far superior to them in force. 'There, my lads!' said
Walsingham, 'if you have a mind to earn your pardons, there's your best
chance. Take her home with you to your captain and your king.' A loud
cheer was their answer. They fought like devils to redeem themselves.
Walsingham--but without stopping to make his panegyric, I need only tell
you, that Walsingham's conduct and intrepidity were this time crowned
with success. He took the enemy's ship, and carried it in triumph into
Portsmouth. Jemmison was on the platform when they came in; and what a
mortifying sight it was to him, and what a proud hour to Walsingham, you
may imagine! Having delivered the Dreadnought and her prize over to his
captain, the next thing to be thought of was the trial of the mutineers.
All except Jefferies obtained a pardon, in consideration of their return
to duty, and their subsequent services. Jefferies was hanged at the
yard-arm. The trial of the mutineers brought on, as Jemmison foresaw it
must, many animadversions on his own conduct. Powerful connexions, and
his friends in place, silenced, as much as possible, the public voice.
Jemmison gave excellent dinners, and endeavoured to drown the whole
affair in his choice Champagne and _London particular Madeira_; so his
health, and success to the British navy, was drunk in bumper toasts."

"Ay, ay, they think to do every thing now in England by dinners, and
bumper toasts, and three times three," said Mr. Palmer.

"But it did not do in this instance," said Beaumont, in a tone of
exultation: "it did not do."

"No," continued Mr. Walsingham; "though Jemmison's dinners went down
vastly well with a party, they did not satisfy the public. The
opposition papers grew clamorous, and the business was taken up so
strongly, and it raised such a cry against the ministry, that they were
obliged to bring Jemmison to a court-martial."

"The puppy! I'm glad of it, with all my soul. And how did he look then?"
said Mr. Palmer.

"Vastly like a gentleman; that was all that even his friends could say
for him. The person he was most afraid of on the trial was Walsingham.
In this apprehension he was confirmed by certain of his friends, who had
attempted to sound Walsingham as to the nature of the evidence he
intended to give. They all reported, that they could draw nothing out of
him, and that he was an impracticable fellow; for his constant answer
was, that his evidence should be given in court, and nowhere else."

"Even to his most intimate friends," interrupted Mr. Beaumont, "even to
me, who was in the house with him all the time the trial was going on,
he did not tell what his evidence would be."

"When the day of trial came," pursued Mr. Walsingham----

"Don't forget Admiral Dashleigh," said Mr. Beaumont.

"No; who can forget him that knows him?" said Walsingham: "a warm,
generous friend, open-hearted as he is brave--he came to Captain
Walsingham the day before the court-martial was to sit. 'I know,
Walsingham, you don't like my cousin Jemmison (said he), nor do I much,
for he is a puppy, and I never could like a puppy, related to me or not;
be that as it may, you'll do him justice, I'm sure; for though he is a
puppy he is a brave fellow--and here, for party purposes, they have
raised a cry of his being a coward, and want to shoot him _pour
encourager les autres_. What you say will damn or save him; and I have
too good an opinion of you to think that any old grudge, though you
might have cause for it, would stand in his way.' Walsingham answered as
usual, that his opinion and his evidence would be known on the day of
trial. Dashleigh went away very ill-satisfied, and persuaded that
Walsingham harboured revenge against his relation. At last, when he was
called upon in court, Walsingham's conduct was both just and generous;
for though his answers spoke the exact truth, yet he brought forward
nothing to the disadvantage of Jemmison, but what truth compelled him to
state, and in his captain's favour; on the contrary, he spoke so
strongly of his intrepidity, and of the gallant actions which in former
instances he had performed in the service, as quite to efface the
recollection of his foppery and epicurism, and, as much as possible, to
excuse his negligence. Walsingham's evidence absolutely confuted the
unjust charge or suspicion of cowardice that had been raised against
Jemmison; and made such an impression in his favour, that, instead of
being dismissed the service, or even having his ship taken from him, as
was expected, Jemmison got off with a reprimand."

"Which I am sure he well deserved," said Mr. Palmer.

"But certainly Walsingham was right not to let him be run down by a
popular cry, especially as he had used him ill," said Mr. Beaumont.

"Well, well!--I don't care about the puppy," cried Mr. Palmer;
"only go on."

"No sooner was the trial over, and the sentence of the court made known,
than Admiral Dashleigh, full of joy, admiration, and gratitude, pushed
his way towards Walsingham, and stretching out his hand,
exclaimed--'Shake hands, Walsingham, and forgive me, or I can't forgive
myself. I suspected you yesterday morning of bearing malice against that
coxcomb, who deserved to be laughed at, but not to be shot. By Jove,
Walsingham, you're an honest fellow, I find.' 'And have you but just
found that out, admiral?' said Walsingham, with a proud smile. 'Harkee,
my lad,' said Dashleigh, calling after him, 'remember, I'm _your_
friend, at all events.--Take it as you will, I'll make you mine yet,
before I've done with you.' Walsingham knew that at this time Admiral
Dashleigh's friends were in power, and that Dashleigh himself had great
influence with the Admiralty; and he probably treated the admiral thus
haughtily, to show that he had no interested views or hopes. Dashleigh
understood this, for he now comprehended Walsingham's character
perfectly. Immediately after the trial, Walsingham was made commander,
in consequence of his having saved the Dreadnought, and his having taken
l'Ambuscade. With this appointment Dashleigh had nothing to do. But he
never ceased exerting himself, employing all the interest of his high
connexions, and all the personal influence of his great abilities, to
have Walsingham made post, and to get him a ship. He succeeded at last;
but he never gave the least hint that it was done by his interest; for,
he said, he knew that Walsingham had such nice notions, and was such a
proud principled fellow, that he would not enjoy his promotion, if he
thought he owed it to any thing upon earth but his own merit. So a
handsome letter was written by the secretary of the Admiralty to Captain
Walsingham, by their lordships' desire, informing him, 'that in
consideration of his services and merit, his majesty had been pleased to
make him post-captain, and to appoint him to the command of l'Ambuscade
(the prize he took), which would be sent out on the first occasion.' The
secretary 'begged leave to add expressions of his private satisfaction
on an appointment so likely to be advantageous to the public,' &c. In
short, it was all done so properly and so plausibly, that even
Walsingham never suspected any secret influence, nor did he find out the
part Dashleigh had taken in the business till several months afterwards,
when a _discreet_ friend mentioned it by accident."

"I was that discreet friend," said Mr. Beaumont.

"Well, all this is very good, but there's no love in this Story," said
Mr. Palmer. "I hope your hero is not too proud to fall in love?"

"Too proud!--We are told, you know, that the greatest hero, in the
intervals of war, resigned

    'To tender passions all his mighty mind.'"

"Tender passions!--Captain Walsingham is in love, then, hey?" said Mr.
Palmer. "And may I ask--Bless me! I shall be very sorry if it is with
any body but--may I ask to whom he is attached?"

"That is a question that I am not quite at liberty perhaps to answer,"
said Mr. Walsingham. "During the interval between his return in the
Dreadnought and his being appointed to l'Ambuscade, an interval of about
eighteen months, which he spent in the country here with me, he had time
to become thoroughly acquainted with a very amiable young lady--"

"A very amiable young lady! and in this neighbourhood?" interrupted Mr.
Palmer; "it must be the very person I mean, the very person I wish."

"Do not ask me any more," said Mr. Walsingham; "for my friend never
declared his attachment, and I have no right to declare it for him. He
was not, at the time I speak of, in circumstances to marry; therefore he
honourably concealed, or rather suppressed, his passion, resolving not
to attempt to engage the young lady's affections till he should have
made a fortune sufficient to support her in her own rank in life."

"Well, now, that's all done, thank Heaven!" cried Palmer: "he has
fortune enough now, or we can help him out, you know. This is excellent,
excellent!--Come, is it not time for us to go to the ladies? I'm
impatient to tell this to Mrs. Beaumont."

"Stay, my good Mr. Palmer," said Mr. Walsingham. "What are you
going to do?"

"Let me alone, let me alone--I'll only tell what I guess--depend upon
it, I guess right--and it may do a great deal of good to tell it to
Mrs. Beaumont, and it will give her a great deal of pleasure--trust
me--trust me."

"I do trust _you_--but perhaps you may be mistaken."

"Not at all, not at all, depend upon it; so let me go to her this
minute."

"But stop, my dear sir," cried Mr. Beaumont, "stop for another reason;
let me beg you to sit down again--I am not clear that Captain Walsingham
is not at this instant in love with--perhaps, as it is reported,
married to a Spanish lady, whom he has carried off out of a convent
at ----, and whom I understand he is bringing home with him."

"Heyday! a Spanish lady!" said Mr. Palmer, returning slowly to his seat
with a fallen countenance. "How's this?--By St. George, this is unlucky!
But how's this, I say?"

"You did not let us finish our story," said Mr. Beaumont, "or we should
have told you."

"Let me hear the end of it now," said Mr. Palmer, sitting down again,
and preparing himself with several pinches of snuff. But just at this
instant a servant came to say that coffee was ready.

"I will never stir from this spot for coffee or any thing else," said
Mr. Palmer, "till I know the history of the Spanish lady."

"Then the shortest and best way I have of telling it to you is, to beg
you to read this letter, which contains all I know of the matter," said
Mr. Beaumont. "This letter is from young Birch to his parents; we have
never heard a syllable directly from Walsingham himself on this subject.
Since he reached Lisbon, we have had no letters from him, except that
short epistle which brought us an account of his taking the
treasure-ship. But we shall see him soon, and know the truth of this
story; and hear whether he prefers his Spanish or his English mistress."

"'Fore George! I wish this Spanish woman had stayed in her convent,"
said Mr. Palmer; "I don't like runaway ladies. But let us see what this
letter says for her."

The letter is the same that Mr. Beaumont read some time ago, therefore
it need not here be inserted. Before Mr. Palmer had finished perusing
it, a second message came to say that the ladies waited tea, and that
Mrs. Beaumont wished not to be late going home, as there was no moon.
Mr. Palmer, nevertheless, finished the letter before he stirred: and
then, with a heavy sigh, he rose and said, "I now wish, more than ever,
that our captain would come home this night, before I go, and clear up
this business. I don't like this Spanish plot, this double intrigue. Ah,
dear me!--I shall be obliged to sail--I shall be in Jamaica before the
fifth act."

"How expectation loads the wings of time!" exclaimed Mrs. Beaumont, as
the gentlemen entered the drawing-room. "Here we have been all day
expecting our dear Captain Walsingham, and the time has seemed so
long!--The only time I ever found long in this house."

"I should like to know," said Mr. Walsingham, after a bow of due
acknowledgment to Mrs. Beaumont for her compliment, "I should like to
know whether time appears to pass more slowly to those that hope, or
those that fear?"

Mrs. Beaumont handed coffee to Mr. Palmer, without attempting to answer
this question.

"To those that hope, I should think," said Mr. Palmer; "for hope long
deferred maketh the heart sick; and time, I can answer for it, passes
most slowly to those who are sick."

    "'Slow as the year's dull circle seems to run,
    When the brisk minor pants for twenty-one,'"

said Mr. Walsingham, smiling, as he looked at young Beaumont. "But I
think it is the mixture of fear with hope that makes time appear to
pass slowly."

"And is hope ever free from that mixture?" said Miss Walsingham. "Does
not hope without fear become certainty, and fear without hope despair?
Can hope ever be perfectly free from some mixture of fear?"

"Oh, dear me! yes, to be sure," said Miss Hunter; "for hope's the most
opposite thing that ever was to fear; as different as black and white;
_for_, surely, every body knows that hope is just the contrary to fear;
and when one says, _I hope_, one does not ever mean _I fear_--surely,
you know, Mrs. Beaumont?"

"I am the worst metaphysician in the world," said Mrs. Beaumont; "I have
not head enough to analyze my heart."

"Nor I neither," said Miss Hunter: "Heigho!" (very audibly.)

"Hark!" cried Mr. Beaumont, "I think I hear a horse galloping. It is he!
it is Walsingham!"

Out ran Beaumont, full speed, to meet his friend; whilst, with, more
sober joy, Mr. Walsingham waited on the steps, where all the company
assembled, Mr. Palmer foremost, with a face full of benevolent pleasure;
Mrs. Beaumont congratulating every body, but nobody listening to her;
luckily for her, all were too heartily occupied with their own feelings
to see how ill her countenance suited her words. The sound of the
galloping of the horse ceased for a minute--then recommenced; but before
it could be settled whether it was coming nearer or going farther away,
Mr. Beaumont returned with a note in his hand.

"Not Walsingham--only Birch--confound him!" said Mr. Beaumont, out of
breath. "Confound him, what a race I took, and how disappointed I was
when I saw Birch's face; and yet it is no fault of his, poor lad!"

"But why did not he come up to the house? Why did not you let us see
him?" said Mr. Walsingham.

"I could not keep him, he was in such a hurry to go home to his father
and mother, he would only stop to give this note."

"From Walsingham? Read, quick."

"Plymouth, 5 o'clock, A.M. just landed.

"Dear friends, I cannot have the pleasure of seeing you, as I had hoped
to do, this day--I am obliged to go to London instantly on business that
must not be delayed--Cannot tell when I can be with you--hope in a few
days--Well and happy, and ever yours, H. WALSINGHAM."

All stood silent with looks of disappointment, except Mrs. Beaumont, who
reiterated, "What a pity! What a sad pity! What a disappointment! What a
terrible disappointment!"

"Business!" said Mr. Beaumont: "curse his business! he should think of
his friends first."

"Most likely his business is for his friends," said Miss Walsingham.

"That's right, my dear little defender of the absent," said Mr.
Walsingham.

"Business!" repeated Mr. Palmer. "Hum! I like business better than
pleasure--I will be patient, if it is really business that keeps him
away from us."

"Depend upon it," said Miss Walsingham, "nothing but business can keep
him away from us; his pleasure is always at home."

"I am thinking," said Mr. Palmer, drawing Mr. Walsingham aside, "I am
thinking whether he has really brought this Spanish lady home with
him, and what will become of her--of--him, I mean. I wish I was not
going to Jamaica!"

"Then, my dear sir, where is the necessity of your going?"

"My health--my health--the physicians say I cannot live in England."

Mr. Walsingham, who had but little faith in physicians, laughed, and
exclaimed, "But, my dear sir, when you see so many men alive in England
at this instant, why should you believe in the impossibility of your
living even in this pestiferous country?"

Mr. Palmer half smiled, felt for his snuff-box, and then replied, "I am
sure I should like to live in England, if my health would let me; but,"
continued he, his face growing longer, and taking the hypochondriac cast
as he pronounced the word, "_but, _Mr. Walsingham, you don't consider
that my health is really--really--"

"Really very good, I see," interrupted Mr. Walsingham, "and I am
heartily glad to see it."

"Sir! sir! you do not see it, I assure you. I have a great opinion of
your judgment, but as you are not a physician--"

"And because I have not taken out my diploma, you think I can neither
see nor understand," interrupted Mr. Walsingham. "But, nevertheless,
give me leave to feel your pulse."

"Do you really understand a pulse?" said Mr. Palmer, baring his wrist,
and sighing.

"As good a pulse as ever man had," pronounced Mr. Walsingham.

"You don't say so? why the physicians tell me--"

"Never mind what they tell you--if they told you the _truth_, they'd
tell you they want fees."

Mrs. Beaumont, quite startled by the tremendously loud voice in which
Mr. Walsingham pronounced the word _truth_, rose, and rang the bell for
her carriage.

"Mr. Palmer," said she, "I am afraid we must run away, for I dread the
night air for invalids."

"My good madam, I am at your orders," answered Mr. Palmer, buttoning
himself up to the chin.

"Mrs. Beaumont, surely you don't think this gentleman an invalid?" said
Mr. Walsingham.

"I only wish he would not think himself such," replied Mrs. Beaumont.

"Ah! my dear friends," said Mr. Palmer, "I really am, I certainly am a
sad--sad--"

"Hypochondriac," said Mr. Walsingham. "Pardon me--you are indeed, and
every body is afraid to tell you so but myself."

Mrs. Beaumont anxiously looked out of the window to see if her carriage
was come to the door.

"Hypochondriac! not in the least, my dear sir," said Mr. Palmer. "If
you were to hear what Dr. ---- and Dr. ---- say of my case, and your
own Dr. Wheeler here, who has a great reputation too--shall I tell you
what he says?"

In a low voice, Mr. Palmer, holding Mr. Walsingham by the button,
proceeded to recapitulate some of Dr. Wheeler's prognostics; and at
every pause, Mr. Walsingham turned impatiently, so as almost to twist
off the detaining button, repeating, in the words of the king of Prussia
to his physician, "_C'est un âne! C'est un âne! C'est un âne!_"--"Pshaw!
I don't understand French," cried Mr. Palmer, angrily. His warmth
obliged him to think of unbuttoning his coat, which operation (after
stretching his neckcloth to remove an uneasy feeling in his throat) he
was commencing, when Mrs. Beaumont graciously stopped his hand.

"The carriage is at the door, my dear sir:--instead of unbuttoning your
coat, had not you better put this cambric handkerchief round your throat
before we go into the cold air?"

Mr. Palmer put it on, as if in defiance of Mr. Walsingham, and followed
Mrs. Beaumont, who led him off in triumph. Before he reached the
carriage-door, however, his anger had spent its harmless force; and
stopping to shake hands with him, Mr. Palmer said, "My good Mr.
Walsingham, I am obliged to you. I am sure you wish me well, and I thank
you for speaking so freely; I love honest friends--but as to my being a
hypochondriac, believe me, you are mistaken!"

"And as to Dr. Wheeler," said Mrs. Beaumont, as she drew up the glass of
the carriage, and as they drove from the door, "Dr. Wheeler certainly
does not deserve to be called _un âne,_ for he is a man of whose medical
judgment I have the highest opinion. Though I am sure I am very candid
to acknowledge it in the present case, when his opinion is so much
against my wishes, and all our wishes, and must, I fear, deprive us so
soon of the company of our dear Mr. Palmer."

"Why, yes, I must go, I must go to Jamaica," said Mr. Palmer in a more
determined tone than he had yet spoken on the subject.

Mrs. Beaumont silently rejoiced; and as her son imprudently went on
arguing in favour of his own wishes, she leaned back in the carriage,
and gave herself up to a pleasing reverie, in which she anticipated the
successful completion of all her schemes. Relieved from the apprehension
that Captain Walsingham's arrival might disconcert her projects, she was
now still further re-assured by Mr. Palmer's resolution to sail
immediately. One day more, and she was safe. Let Mr. Palmer but sail
without seeing Captain Walsingham, and this was all Mrs. Beaumont asked
of fortune; the rest her own genius would obtain. She was so absorbed in
thought, that she did not know she was come home, till the carriage
stopped at her door. Sometimes, indeed, her reverie had been interrupted
by Mr. Palmer's praises of the Walsinghams, and by a conversation which
she heard going on about Captain Walsingham's life and adventures: but
Captain Walsingham was safe in London; and whilst he was at that
distance, she could bear to hear his eulogium. Having lamented that she
had been deprived of her dear Amelia all this day, and having arranged
her plan of operations for the morrow, Mrs. Beaumont retired to rest.
And even in dreams her genius invented fresh expedients, wrote notes of
apology, or made speeches of circumvention.




CHAPTER XI.

    "And now, as oft in some distempered state,
    On one nice trick depends the general fate."--POPE.


That old politician, the cardinal of Lorraine, used to say, that "a lie
believed but for one hour doth many times in a nation produce effects
of seven years' continuance." At this rate what wonderful effects might
our heroine have produced, had she practised in public life, instead of
confining her genius to family politics! The game seemed now in her own
hands. The day, the important day, on which all her accounts with her
son were to be settled; the day when Mr. Palmer's will was to be
signed, the last day he was to stay in England, arrived. Mr. Beaumont's
birthday, his coming of age, was of course hailed with every possible
demonstration of joy. The village bells rang, the tenants were invited
to a dinner and a dance, and an ox was to be roasted whole; and the
preparations for rejoicing were heard all over the house. Mr. Palmer's
benevolent heart was ever ready to take a share in the pleasures of his
fellow-creatures, especially in the festivities of the lower classes.
He appeared this morning in high good humour. Mrs. Beaumont, with a
smile on her lips, yet with a brow of care, was considering how she
could make pleasure subservient to interest, and how she could get
_business_ done in the midst of the amusements of the day. Most
auspiciously did her day of business begin by Mr. Palmer's declaring to
her that his will was actually made; that with the exception of certain
legacies, he had left his whole fortune to her during her life, with
remainder to her son and daughter. "By this arrangement," continued he,
"I trust I shall ultimately serve my good friends the Walsinghams, as I
wish: for though I have not seen as much of that family as I should
have been glad to have done, yet the little I have seen convinces me
that they are worthy people."

"The most worthy people upon earth. You know I have the greatest regard
for them," said Mrs. Beaumont.

"I am really sorry," pursued Mr. Palmer, "that I have not been able to
make acquaintance with Captain Walsingham. Mr. Walsingham told me his
whole history yesterday, and it has prepossessed me much in his favour."

"He is, indeed, a charming, noble-hearted young hero," said Mrs.
Beaumont; "and I regret, as much as you do, that you cannot see him
before you leave England."

"However," continued Mr. Palmer, "as I was saying, the Walsinghams will,
I trust, be the better sooner or later by me; for I think I foresee that
Captain Walsingham, if a certain Spanish lady were out of the question,
would propose for Amelia, and would persuade her to give up this foolish
fancy of hers for that baronet."

Mrs. Beaumont shook her head, as if she believed this could not
possibly be done.

"Well, well, if it can't be, it can't. The girl's inclination must not
be controlled. I don't wonder, however, that you are vexed at missing
such a husband for her as young Walsingham. But, my good madam, we must
make the best of it--let the girl marry her baronet. I have left a
legacy of some thousands to Captain Walsingham, as a token of my esteem
for his character; and I am sure, my dear Mrs. Beaumont, his interests
are in good hands when I leave them in yours. In the mean time, I wish
you, as the representative of my late good friend, Colonel Beaumont, to
enjoy all I have during your life."

Mrs. Beaumont poured forth such a profusion of kind and grateful
expressions, that Mr. Palmer was quite disconcerted. "No more of this,
my dear madam, no more of this. But there was something I was going to
say, that has gone out of my head. Oh, it was, that the Walsinghams
will, I think, stand a good chance of being the better for me in
another way."

"How?"

"Why you have seen so much more of them than I have--don't you, my dear
madam, see that Miss Walsingham has made a conquest of your son? I
thought I was remarkably slow at seeing these things, and yet I saw it."

"Miss Walsingham is a prodigious favourite of mine. But you know
Edward is so young, and men don't like, now-a-days, to marry young,"
said Mrs. Beaumont.

"Well, let them manage their affairs their own way," said Mr. Palmer;
"all I wish upon earth is to see them happy, or rather to hear of their
happiness, for I shall not see it you know in Jamaica."

"Alas!" said Mrs. Beaumont, in a most affectionate tone, and with a
sigh that seemed to come from her heart; "alas! that is such a
melancholy thought."

Mr. Palmer ended the conversation by inquiring whom he had best ask to
witness his will. Mrs. Beaumont proposed Captain Lightbody and Dr.
Wheeler. The doctor was luckily in the house, for he had been sent for
this morning, to see her poor Amelia, who had caught cold yesterday, and
had a slight feverish complaint.

This was perfectly true. The anxiety that Amelia had suffered of
late--the fear of being forced or ensnared to marry a man she
disliked--apprehensions about the Spanish incognita, and at last the
certainty that Captain Walsingham would not arrive before Mr. Palmer
should have left England, and that consequently the hopes she had
formed from this benevolent friend's interference were vain--all these
things had overpowered Amelia; she had passed a feverish night, and was
really ill. Mrs. Beaumont at any other time would have been much
alarmed; for, duplicity out of the question, she was a fond mother: but
she now was well contented that her daughter should have a day's
confinement to her room, for the sake of keeping her safe out of the
way. So leaving poor Amelia to her feverish thoughts, we proceed with
the business of the day.

Dr. Wheeler, Captain Lightbody, and Mr. Twigg witnessed the will; it
was executed, and a copy of it deposited with Mrs. Beaumont. This was
one great point gained. The next object was her jointure. She had
employed her convenient tame man[3], Captain Lightbody, humbly to
suggest to her son, that some increase of jointure would be proper; and
she was now in anxiety to know how these hints, and others which had
been made by more remote means, would operate. As she was waiting to
see Mr. Lightbody in her dressing-room, to hear the result of his
_suggestions_, the door opened.

"Well, Lightbody! come in--what success?"

She stopped short, for it was not Captain Lightbody, it was her son.
Without taking any notice of what she said, he advanced towards her, and
presented a deed.

"You will do me the favour, mother, to accept of this addition to your
jointure," said he. "It was always my intention to do this, the moment
it should be in my power; and I had flattered myself that you would not
have thought it necessary to suggest to me what I knew I ought to do, or
to hint to me your wishes by any intermediate person."

Colouring deeply, for it hurt her conscience to be found out, Mrs.
Beaumont was upon the point of disavowing her emissary, but she
recollected that the words which she had used when her son was coming
into the room might have betrayed her. On the other hand, it was not
certain that he had heard them. She hesitated. From the shame of a
disavowal, which would have answered no purpose, but to sink her lower
in her son's opinion, she was, however, saved by his abrupt sincerity.

"Don't say any thing more about it, dear mother," cried he, "but pardon
me the pain I have given you at a time when indeed I wished only to give
pleasure. Promise me, that in future you will let me know your wishes
directly, and from your own lips."

"Undoubtedly--depend upon it, my dearest son. I am quite overpowered.
The fact was, that I could not, however really and urgently necessary it
was to me, bring myself to mention with my own lips what, as a direct
request from me, I knew you could not and would not refuse, however
inconvenient it might be to you to comply. On this account, and on this
account only, I wished you not to know my wants from myself, but from an
intermediate friend."

"Friend!"--Mr. Beaumont could not help repeating with an emphasis
of disdain.

"_Friend_, I only said by courtesy; but I wished you to know my wants
from an intermediate person, that you might not feel yourself in any way
bound, or called upon, and that the refusal might be implied and tacit,
as it were, so that it could lead to no unpleasant feelings between us."

"Ah! my dear mother," said Mr. Beaumont, "I have not your knowledge of
the world, or of human nature; but from all I have heard, seen, and
felt, I am convinced that more unpleasant feelings are created in
families, by these false delicacies, and managements, and hints, and
go-between friends by courtesy, than ever would have been caused by the
parties speaking directly to one another, and telling the plain truth
about their thoughts and wishes. Forgive me if I speak too plainly at
this moment; as we are to live together, I hope, many years, it may
spare us many an unhappy hour."

Mrs. Beaumont wiped her eyes. Her son found it difficult to go on, and
yet, upon his own principles, it was right to proceed.

"Amelia, ma'am! I find she is ill this morning."

"Yes--poor child!"

"I hope, mother--"

"Since," interrupted Mrs. Beaumont, "my dear son wishes always to hear
from me the plain and direct truth, I must tell him, that, as the
guardian of his sister, I think myself accountable to no one for my
conduct with respect to her; and that I should look upon any
interference as an unkind and unjustifiable doubt of my affection for my
daughter. Rest satisfied with this assurance, that her happiness is, in
all I do, my first object; and as I have told her a thousand times, no
force shall be put on her inclinations."

"I have no more to say, no more to ask," said Mr. Beaumont. "This is a
distinct, positive declaration, in which I will confide, and, in future,
not suffer appearances to alarm me. A mother would not keep the word of
promise to the ear, and break it to the hope."

Mrs. Beaumont, feeling herself change countenance, made an attempt to
blow her nose, and succeeded in hiding her face with her handkerchief.

"With respect to myself," continued Mr. Beaumont, "I should also say,
lest you should be in any doubt concerning my sentiments, that though I
have complied with your request to delay for a few weeks--"

"_That_ you need not repeat, my dear," interrupted Mrs. Beaumont.
"I understand all that perfectly."

"Then at the end of this month I shall--and, I hope, with your entire
approbation, propose for Miss Walsingham."

"Time enough," said Mrs. Beaumont, smiling, and tapping her son
playfully on the shoulder, "time enough to talk of that when the end of
the month comes. How often have I seen young men like you change their
minds, and fall in and out of love in the course of one short month! At
any rate," continued Mrs. Beaumont, "let us pass to the order of the
day; for we have time enough to settle other matters; but the order of
the day--a tiresome one, I confess--is to settle accounts."

"I am ready--"

"So am I."

"Then let us go with the accounts to Mr. Palmer, who is also ready,
I am sure."

"But, before we go," said Mrs. Beaumont, whispering, "let us settle what
is to be said about the debts--_your_ debts you know. I fancy you'll
agree with me, that the less is said about this the better; and that, in
short, the best will be to say nothing."

"Why so, madam? Surely you don't think I mean to conceal my debts from
our friend Mr. Palmer, at the very moment when I profess to tell him all
my affairs, and to settle accounts with him and you, as my guardians!"

"With him? But he has never acted, you know, as one of the guardians;
therefore you are not called upon to settle accounts with him."

"Then why, ma'am, did you urge him to come down from London, to be
present at the settlement of these accounts?"

"As a compliment, and because I wish him to be present, as your
father's friend; but it is by no means essential that he should know
every detail."

"I will do whichever you please, ma'am; I will either settle accounts
with or without him."

"Oh! _with_ him, that is, in his presence, to be sure."

"Then he must know the whole."

"Why so? Your having contracted such debts will alter his opinion of
your prudence and of mine, and may, perhaps, essentially alter--alter--"

"His will? Be it so; that is the worst that can happen. As far as I am
concerned, I would rather a thousand times it were so, than deceive him
into a better opinion of me than I deserve."

"Nobly said! so like yourself, and like every thing I could wish: but,
forgive me, if I did for you, what indeed I would not wish you to do for
yourself. I have already told Mr. Palmer that you had no embarrassments;
therefore, you cannot, and I am sure would not, unsay what I have said."

Mr. Beaumont stood fixed in astonishment.

"But why, mother, did not you tell him the whole?"

"My dear love, delicacy prevented me. He offered to relieve you from any
embarrassments, if you had any; but I, having too much delicacy and
pride to let my son put himself under pecuniary obligations, hastily
answered, that you had no debts; for there was no other reply to be
made, without offending poor Palmer, and hurting his generous feelings,
which I would not do for the universe: and I considered too, that as all
Palmer's fortune will come to us in the end--"

"Well, ma'am," interrupted Mr. Beaumont, impatient of all these glosses
and excuses, "the plain state of the case is, that I cannot contradict
what my mother has said; therefore I will not settle accounts at all
with Mr. Palmer."

"And what excuse _can_ I make to him, after sending for him express
from London?"

"That I must leave to you, mother."

"And what reason _can_ I give for thus withdrawing our family-confidence
from such an old friend, and at the very moment when he is doing so much
for us all?"

"That I must leave to you, mother. I withdraw no confidence. I have
pretended none--I will break none."

"Good Heavens! was not all I did and said for _your_ interest?"

"Nothing can be for my interest that is not for my honour, and for
yours, mother. But let us never go over the business again. Now to the
order of the day."

"My dear, dear son," said Mrs. Beaumont, "don't speak so roughly, so
cruelly to me."

Suddenly softened, by seeing the tears standing in his mother's eyes, he
besought her pardon for the bluntness of his manner, and expressed his
entire belief in her affection and zeal for his interests; but, on the
main point, that he would not deceive Mr. Palmer, or directly or
indirectly assert a falsehood, Mr. Beaumont was immoveable. In the midst
of her entreaties a message came from Mr. Palmer, to say that he was
waiting for the accounts, which Mrs. Beaumont wished to settle. "Well,"
said she, much perplexed, "well, come down to him--come, for it is
impossible for me to find any excuse after sending for him from London;
he would think there was something worse than there really is.
Stay--I'll go down first, and sound him; and if it won't do without the
accounts, do you come when I ring the bell; then all I have for it is to
run my chance. Perhaps he may never recollect what passed about your
debts, for the dear good old soul has not the best memory in the world;
and if he should obstinately remember, why, after all, it's only a bit
of false delicacy, and a white lie for a friend and a son, and we can
colour it."

Down went Mrs. Beaumont to sound Mr. Palmer; but though much might be
expected from her address, yet she found it unequal to the task of
convincing this gentleman's plain good sense that it would fatigue him
to see those accounts, which he came so many miles on purpose to settle.
Perceiving him begin to waken to the suspicion that she had some
interest in suppressing the accounts, and hearing him, in an altered
tone, ask, "Madam, is there any mystery in these accounts, that I must
not see them?" she instantly rang the bell, and answered, "Oh, none;
none in the world; only we thought--that is, I feared it might fatigue
you too much, my dear friend, just the day before your journey, and I
was unwilling to lose so many hours of your good company; but since you
are so very kind--here's my son and the papers."




CHAPTER XII.

    "A face untaught to feign; a judging eye,
    That darts severe upon a rising lie,
    And strikes a blush through frontless flattery."


To the settlement of accounts they sat down in due form; and it so
happened, that though this dear good old soul had not the best memory in
the world, yet he had an obstinate recollection of every word Mrs.
Beaumont had said about her son's having no debts or embarrassments. And
great and unmanageable was his astonishment, when the truth came to
light. "It is not," said he, turning to Mr. Beaumont, "that I am
astonished at your having debts; I am sorry for that, to be sure; but
young men are often a little extravagant or so, and I dare
say--particularly as you are so candid and make no excuses about it--I
dare say you will be more prudent in future, and give up the race-horses
as you promise. But--why did not Madam Beaumont tell me the truth? Why
make a mystery, when I wanted nothing but to serve my friends? It was
not using me well--it was not using yourself well. Madam, madam, I am
vexed to the heart, and would not for a thousand pounds--ay, fool as I
am, not for ten thousand pounds, this had happened to me from my good
friend the colonel's widow--a man that would as soon have cut his hand
off. Oh, madam! Madam Beaumont! you have struck me a hard blow at my
time of life. Any thing but this I could have borne; but to have one's
confidence and old friendships shaken at my time of life!"

Mrs. Beaumont was, in her turn, in unfeigned astonishment; for Mr.
Palmer took the matter more seriously, and seemed more hurt by this
discovery of a trifling deviation from truth, than she had foreseen, or
than she could have conceived to be possible, in a case where neither
his interest nor any one of his passions was concerned. It was in vain
that she palliated and explained, and talked of delicacy, and
generosity, and pride, and maternal feelings, and the feelings of a
friend, and all manner of fine and double-refined sentiments; still Mr.
Palmer's sturdy plain sense could not be made to comprehend that a
falsehood is not a falsehood, or that deceiving a friend is using him
well. Her son suffered for her, as his countenance and his painful and
abashed silence plainly showed.

"And does not even my son say any thing for me? Is this friendly?" said
she, unable to enter into his feelings, and thinking that the part of a
friend was to make apologies, right or wrong.--Mr. Palmer shook hands
with Mr. Beaumont, and, without uttering a syllable, they understood one
another perfectly. Mr. Beaumont left the room; and Mrs. Beaumont burst
into tears. Mr. Palmer, with great good-nature, tried to assuage that
shame and compunction which he imagined that she felt. He observed,
that, to be sure, she must feel mortified and vexed with herself, but
that he was persuaded nothing but some mistaken notion of delicacy could
have led her to do what her principles must condemn. Immediately she
said all that she saw would please Mr. Palmer; and following the lead
of his mind, she at last confirmed him in the opinion, that this was an
accidental not an habitual deviation from truth. His confidence in her
was broken, but not utterly destroyed.

"As to the debt," resumed Mr. Palmer, "do not let that give you a
moment's concern; I will put that out of the question in a few minutes.
My share in the cargo of the Anne, which I see is just safely arrived
in the Downs, will more than pay this debt. Your son shall enter upon
his estate unencumbered. No, no--don't thank me; I won't cheat you of
your thanks; it is your son must thank me for this. I do it on his
account. I like the young man. There is an ingenuousness, an honourable
frankness about him, that I love. Instead of his bond for the money, I
shall ask his promise never to have any thing more to do with
race-horses or Newmarket; and his promise I shall think as good as if
it were his bond. Now I am not throwing money away; I'm not doing an
idle ostentatious thing, but one that may, and I hope will, be
essentially useful. For, look you here, my good--look here, Mrs.
Beaumont: a youth who finds himself encumbered with debt on coming to
his estate is apt to think of freeing himself by marrying a fortune
instead of a woman; now instead of freeing a man, this fetters him for
life: and what sort of a friend must that be, who, if he could prevent
it, would let this be done for a few thousand pounds? So I'll go before
I take another pinch of snuff, and draw him an order upon the cargo of
the Anne, lest I should forget it in the hurry of packing and taking
leave, and all those uncomfortable things."

He left _Madam_ Beaumont to her feelings, or her reflections; and, in a
few minutes, with an order for the money in his hand, went over the
house in search of his young friend. Mr. Beaumont came out of his
sister's room on hearing himself called.

"Here," said Mr. Palmer, "is a little business for you to do. Read this
order over; see that it is right, and endorse it--mind--and never let
me hear one word more about it--only by way of acknowledgment--ask your
mother what you are to give me. But don't read it till you are out of my
sight--Is Amelia up? Can I see her?"

"Yes; up and in her dressing-room. Do, dear sir, go in and see her, for
my mother says she is too feverish to leave her room to-day; but I am
sure that it will make her ten times worse to be prevented from seeing
you the last day you are with us."

"Does the little gipsy then care so much for me?--that's fair; for I am
her friend, and will prove it to her, by giving up my own fancies to
hers: so trust me with her, _tête-à-tête,--young gentleman; go off, if
you please, and do your own business."

Mr. Palmer knocked at Amelia's door, and fancying he heard an answer of
admittance, went in.

"Oh, Mr. Palmer, my good Mr. Palmer, is it you?"

"Yes; but you seem not above half to know whether you are glad or sorry
to see your good Mr. Palmer; for while you hold out your hand, you turn
away your face from me.--Dear, dear! what a burning hand, and how the
pulse goes and flutters! What does Dr. Wheeler say to this? I am a bit
of a physician myself--let me look at you. What's this? eyes as red as
ferret's--begging your eyes' pardon, young lady--What's this about?
Come," said he, drawing a chair and sitting down close beside her, "no
mysteries--no mysteries--I hate mysteries--besides, we have not time
for them. Consider, I go to-morrow, and have all my shirts to pack up:
ay, smile, lady, as your father used to do; and open your whole heart to
me, as he always did. Consider me as an old friend."

"I do consider you as a sincere, excellent friend," said Amelia; "but--"
Amelia knew that she could not explain herself without disobeying, and
perhaps betraying, her mother.

"No _buts_," said Mr. Palmer, taking hold of her hand. "Come, my little
Amelia, before you have put that ring on and off your pretty finger
fifty times more, tell me whom you would wish to put a ring on this
finger for life?"

"Ah! that is the thing _I cannot_ tell you!" said Amelia. "Were I alone
concerned, I would tell you every thing; but--ask me no more, I cannot
tell you the whole truth."

"Then there's something wrong somewhere or other. Whenever people tell
me they cannot speak the truth, I always say, then there's something
wrong. Give me leave, Amelia, to ask--"

"Don't question me," said Amelia: "talk to my mother. I don't know how I
ought to answer you."

"_Not know how!_ 'Fore George! this is strange! A strange house, where
one can't get at the simplest truth without a world of difficulty--
mother and daughter all alike; not one of 'em but the son can, for the
soul of 'em, give a plain answer to a plain question. _Not know how!_
as if it was a science to tell the truth. Not know how! as if a person
could not talk to me, honest old Richard Palmer, without _knowing how!_
as if it was how to baffle a lawyer on a cross-examination--_Not know
how_ to answer one's own friend! Ah! this is not the way your father
and I used to go on, Miss Beaumont. Nay, nay, don't cry now, or that
will finish oversetting the little temper I have left, for I can't bear
to see a woman cry, especially a young woman like you; it breaks my
heart, old as it is, and fool that I am, that ought to know your sex
better by this time than to let a few tears drown my common sense. Well,
young lady, be that as it may, since you won't tell me your mind, I must
tell you your mind, for I happen to know it--Yes, I do--your mother bid
me spare your delicacy, and I would, but that I have not time; besides,
I don't understand, nor see what good is got, but a great deal of
mischief, by these cursed new-fashioned delicacies: wherefore, in plain
English, I tell you, I don't like Sir John Hunter, and I do like Captain
Walsingham; and I did wish you married to Captain Walsingham--you need
not start so, for I say _did_--I don't wish it now; for since your heart
is set upon Sir John Hunter, God forbid I should want to give Captain
Walsingham a wife without a heart. So I have only to add, that
notwithstanding my own fancy or judgment, I have done my best to persuade
your mother to let you have the man, or the baronet, of your choice. I
will go farther: I'll make it a point with her, and bring you both
together; for there's no other way, I see, of understanding you; and get
a promise of her consent; and then I hope I shall leave you all
satisfied, and without any mysteries. And, in the mean time," added Mr.
Palmer, taking out of his coat pocket a morocco leather case, and
throwing it down on the table before Amelia, "every body should be made
happy their own way: there are some diamonds for Lady Hunter, and God
bless you."

"Oh, sir, stay!" cried Amelia, rising eagerly; "dear, good Mr. Palmer,
keep your diamonds, and leave me your esteem and love."

"That I can't, unless you speak openly to me. It is out of nature.
Don't kneel--don't. God bless you! young lady, you have my pity; for
indeed," turning and looking at her, "you seem very miserable, and look
very sincere."

"If my mother was here!--I _must_ see my mother," exclaimed Amelia.

"Where's the difficulty? I'll go for her this instant," said Mr. Palmer,
who was not a man to let a romance trail on to six volumes for want of
going six yards; or for want of somebody's coming into a room at the
right minute for explanation; or from some of those trivial causes by
which adepts contrive to delude us at the very moment of expectation.
Whilst Mr. Palmer was going for Mrs. Beaumont, Amelia waited in terrible
anxiety. The door was open; and as she looked into the gallery which led
to her room, she saw Mr. Palmer and her mother as they came along,
talking together. Knowing every symptom of suppressed passion in her
mother's countenance, she was quite terrified, by indications which
passed unnoticed by Mr. Palmer. As her mother approached, Amelia hid her
face in her hands for a moment, but gaining courage from the
consciousness of integrity, and from a determination to act openly, she
looked up; and, rising with dignity, said, in a gentle but firm
voice--"Mother, I hope you will not think that there is any impropriety
in my speaking to our friend, Mr. Palmer, with the same openness with
which I have always spoken to you?"

"My dear child," interrupted Mrs. Beaumont, embracing Amelia with a
sudden change of manner and countenance, "my sweet child, I have tried
you to the utmost; forgive me; all your trials now are over, and you
must allow me the pleasure of telling our excellent friend, Mr. Palmer,
what I know will delight him almost as much as it delights me--that the
choice of Amelia's heart, Mr. Palmer, is worthy of her, just what we
all wished."

"Captain Walsingham?" exclaimed Mr. Palmer, with joyful astonishment.

"Sit down, my love," said Mrs. Beaumont, seating Amelia, who, from the
surprise at this sudden change in her mother, and from the confusion of
feelings which overwhelmed her at this moment, was near fainting: "we
are too much for her, I have been too abrupt," continued Mrs. Beaumont:
"Open the window, will you, my good sir? and," whispering, "let us not
say any more to her at present; you see it won't do."

"I am well, quite well again, now," said Amelia, exerting herself.
"Don't leave, don't forsake me, Mr. Palmer; pray don't go," holding out
her hand to Mr. Palmer.

"My dear Amelia," said Mrs. Beaumont, "don't talk, don't exert yourself;
pray lie still on the sofa."

"Her colour is come back; she looks like herself again," said Mr.
Palmer, seating himself beside her, regardless of Mrs. Beaumont's
prohibitory looks. "Since my little Amelia wished me to stay, I'll not
go. So, my child--but I won't hurry you--only want one sign of the head
to confirm the truth of what your mother has just told me, for nobody
can tell what passes in a young lady's heart but herself. So then, it is
not that sprig of quality, that selfish spendthrift, that Sir John
Hunter, who has your heart--hey?"

"No, no, no," answered Amelia; "I never did, I never could like
such a man!"

"Why, I thought not--I thought it was impossible; but--"

Mrs. Beaumont, alarmed beyond conception, suddenly put her hand before
Mr. Palmer's mouth, to prevent him from finishing his sentence, and
exposing the whole of her shameful duplicity to her daughter.

"Absolutely I must, and do hereby interpose my maternal authority, and
forbid all agitating explanations whilst Amelia is in her present state.
Dr. Wheeler says she is terribly feverish. Come, Mr. Palmer, I must
carry you off by force, and from me you shall have all the explanations
and all the satisfaction you can require."

"Well," said Mr. Palmer, "good bye for the present, my little
Amelia, my darling little Amelia! I am so delighted to find that
Captain Walsingham's the man, and so glad you have no mysteries: be
well, be well soon. I am so pleased, so happy, that I am as unruly
as a child, and as easily managed. You see, how I let myself be
turned out of the room."

"Not turned out, only carried out," said Mrs. Beaumont, who never, even
in the most imminent perils, lost her polite presence of mind. Having
thus carried off Mr. Palmer, she was in hopes that, in the joyful
confusion of his mind, he would he easily satisfied with any plausible
explanation. Therefore she dexterously fixed his attention on the
future, and adverted as slightly as possible to the past."

"Now, my good sir, congratulate me," said she, "on the prospect I have
of happiness in such a son-in-law as Captain Walsingham, if it be indeed
true that Captain Walsingham is really attached to Amelia. But, on the
other hand, what shall we do if there is any truth in the story of the
Spanish lady? Oh, there's the difficulty! Between hope and fear, I am in
such a distracted state at this moment, I hardly know what I say. What
shall we do about the Spanish lady?"

"Do, my dear madam! we can do nothing at all in that case: but I will
hope the best, and you'll see that he will prove a constant man at last.
In the mean time, how was all that about Sir John Hunter, and what are
you to do with him?"

"Leave that to me; I will settle all that," cried Mrs. Beaumont.

"But I hope the poor man, though I don't like him, has not been jilted?"

"No, by no means; Amelia's incapable of that. You know she told you just
now that she never liked him."

"Ay; but I think, madam, you told me, that she _did_," said Mr. Palmer,
sticking to his point with a decided plainness, which quite disconcerted
Mrs. Beaumont.

"It was all a mistake," said she, "quite a mistake; and I am sure you
rejoice with me that it was so: and, as to the rest--past blunders, like
past misfortunes, are good for nothing but to be forgotten."

Observing that Mr. Palmer looked dissatisfied, Mrs. Beaumont continued
apologizing. "I confess you have to all appearance some cause to be
angry with me," said she: "but now only hear me. Taking the blame upon
myself, let me candidly tell you the whole truth, and all my reasons,
foolish perhaps as they were. Captain Walsingham behaved so honourably,
and had such command over his feelings, that I, who am really the most
credulous creature in the world, was so completely deceived, that I
fancied he never had a thought of Amelia, and that he never would think
of her; and I own this roused both my pride and my prudence for my
daughter; and I certainly thought it my duty, as her mother, to do every
thing in my power to discourage in her young and innocent heart a
hopeless passion. It was but within these few hours that I have been
undeceived by you as to his sentiments. That, of course, made an
immediate change, as you have seen, in my measures; for such is my high
opinion of the young man, and indeed my desire to be connected with the
Walsinghams is so great, that even whilst I am in total ignorance of
what the amount or value may be of this prize that he has taken, and
even whilst I am in doubt concerning this Spanish incognita, I have not
hesitated to declare, perhaps imprudently, to Amelia, as you have just
heard, my full approbation of the choice of her heart."

"Hum!--well--hey!--How's this?" said Mr. Palmer to himself, as he tried
to believe and to be satisfied with this apology. "Madam," said he aloud
to Mrs. Beaumont, "I comprehend that it might not be prudent to
encourage Amelia's partiality for Captain Walsingham till you were sure
of the young man's sentiments; but, excuse me, I am a very slow,
unpractised man in these matters; I don't yet understand why you told
_me_ that she was in love with Sir John Hunter?"

Mrs. Beaumont, being _somewhat in the habit of self-contradiction_, was
seldom unprovided with a concordance of excuses; but at this unlucky
moment she was found unprepared. Hesitating she stood, all subtle as she
was, deprived of ready wit, and actually abashed in the presence of a
plain good man.

"I candidly confess, my dear sir," said she, apologizing to Mr. Palmer
as he walked up and down, "that my delicacy or pride,--call it what you
will,--my false pride for my daughter, led me into an error. I could not
bring myself to acknowledge to any man, even to you--for you know that
it's contrary quite to the principles and pride of our sex--that she
felt any partiality for a man who had shown none for her. You must be
sensible it was, to say no more, an awkward, mortifying thing; and I was
so afraid even of your finding it out, that--forgive me--I did, I
candidly acknowledge, fabricate the foolish story of Sir John Hunter.
But, believe me, I never seriously thought of her marrying him."

"'Fore George! I don't understand one word of it from beginning to end,"
said Mr. Palmer, speaking aloud to himself.

Regardless of the profusion of words which Mrs. Beaumont continued
pouring forth, he seated himself in an arm-chair, and, deep in reverie
for some minutes, went on slowly striking his hands together, as he
leaned with his arms on his knees. At length he rose, rang the bell, and
said to the servant, "Sir, be so obliging as to let my man Crichton know
that he need not hurry himself to pack up my clothes, for I shall not go
to-morrow."

Struck with consternation at these words, Mrs. Beaumont, nevertheless,
commanded the proper expression of joy on the occasion. "Delightful! I
must go this instant," cried she, "and be the first to tell this
charming news to Amelia and Edward."

"Tell them, then, madam, if you please, that I have gained such a
conquest over what Mr. Walsingham calls my hypochondriacism, that I am
determined, at whatever risk, to stay another year in Old England, and
that I hope to be present at both their weddings."

Mrs. Beaumont's quick exit was at this moment necessary to conceal her
dismay. Instead of going to Amelia, she hurried to her own room, locked
the door, and sat down to compose her feelings and to collect her
thoughts; but scarcely had she been two minutes in her apartment, when
a messenger came to summon her to the festive scene in the park. The
tenants and villagers were all at dinner, and Mr. Beaumont sent to let
her know that they were waiting to drink her health. She was obliged to
go, and to appear all radiant with pleasure. The contrast between their
honest mirth and her secret sufferings was great. She escaped as soon
as she could from their _senseless_ joy, and again shut herself up in
her own room.

This sudden and totally unexpected resolution of Mr. Palmer's so
astonished her, that she could scarcely believe she had heard or
understood his words rightly. Artful persons may, perhaps, calculate
with expertness and accuracy what will, in any given case, be the
determinations of the selfish and the interested; but they are liable to
frequent mistakes in judging of the open-hearted and the generous: there
is no sympathy to guide them, and all their habits tend to mislead them
in forming opinions of the direct and sincere. It had never entered into
Mrs. Beaumont's imagination that Mr. Palmer would, notwithstanding his
belief that he hazarded his life by so doing, defer a whole year
returning to Jamaica, merely to secure the happiness of her son and
daughter. She plainly saw that he now suspected her dislike to the
Walsinghams, and her aversion to the double union with that family: she
saw that the slightest circumstance in her conduct, which confirmed his
suspicions, would not only utterly ruin her in his opinion, but might
induce him to alter that part of his will which left her sole possessor
of his fortune during her life. Bad as her affairs were at this moment,
she knew that they might still be worse. She recollected the letter of
_perfect approbation_ which Sir John Hunter had in his power. She
foresaw that he would produce this letter on the first rumour of her
favouring another lover for Amelia. She had just declared to Mr. Palmer,
that she never seriously thought of Sir John Hunter for her daughter;
and, should this letter be brought to light, she must be irremediably
convicted of the basest duplicity, and there would be no escape from the
shame of falsehood, or rather the disgrace of detection. In this grand
difficulty, Mrs. Beaumont was too good a politician to waste time upon
any inferior considerations. Instead of allowing herself leisure to
reflect that all her present difficulties arose from her habits of
insincerity, she, with the true spirit of intrigue, attributed her
disappointments to some deficiency of artifice. "Oh!" said she to
herself, "why did I _write?_ I should only have _spoken_ to Sir John.
How could I be so imprudent as to _commit_ myself by writing? But what
can be done to repair this error?"

One web destroyed, she, with indefatigable subtlety, began to weave
another. With that promptitude of invention which practice alone can
give, she devised a scheme, by which she hoped not only to prevent Sir
John Hunter from producing the written proof of her duplicity, but by
which she could also secure the reversionary title, and the great Wigram
estate. The nature of the scheme shall be unfolded in the next chapter;
and it will doubtless procure for Mrs. Beaumont, from all proper judges,
a just tribute of admiration. They will allow our heroine to be
possessed not only of that address, which is the peculiar glory of
female politicians, but also of that masculine quality, which the
greatest, wisest, of mankind has pronounced to be the first, second, and
third requisite for business--"Boldness--boldness--boldness."




CHAPTER XIII.

    "The creature's at her dirty work again."--POPE.


Amongst the infinite petty points of cunning of which that great
practical philosopher Bacon has in vain essayed to make out a list, he
notes that, "Because it worketh better when any thing seemeth to be
gotten from you by question than if you offer it of yourself: you may
lay a bait for a question, by showing another visage and countenance
than you are wont, to the end to give occasion to the party to ask what
the matter is of the change."

"What is the matter, my dearest Mrs. Beaumont? I never saw you look so
sad before in all my life," said Miss Hunter, meeting Mrs. Beaumont, who
had walked out into the park on purpose to be so met, and in hopes of
having the melancholy of her countenance thus observed. It was the more
striking, and the more unseasonable, from its contrast with the gay
scene in the park. The sound of music was heard, and the dancing had
begun, and all was rural festivity: "What is the matter, my dearest Mrs.
Beaumont?" repeated Miss Hunter; "at such a time as this to see you look
so melancholy!"

"Ah! my love! such a sad change in affairs! But," whispered Mrs.
Beaumont, "I cannot explain myself before your companion."

Mr. Lightbody was walking with Miss Hunter: but he was so complaisant,
that he was easily despatched on some convenient errand; and then Mrs.
Beaumont, with all her wonted delicacy of circumlocution, began to
communicate her distress to her young friend.

"You know, my beloved Albina," said she, "it has been my most ardent
wish that your brother should be connected with my family by the nearest
and dearest ties."

"Yes; that is, married to Amelia," said Miss Hunter. "And has any thing
happened to prevent it?"

"Oh, my dear! it is all over! It cannot be--must not be thought of--must
not be spoken of any more; Mr. Palmer has been outrageous about it. Such
a scene as I have had! and all to no purpose. Amelia has won him over to
her party. Only conceive what I felt--she declared, beyond redemption,
her preference of Captain Walsingham."

"Before the captain proposed for her! How odd! dear! Suppose he should
never propose for her, what a way she will be in after affronting my
brother and all! And only think! she gives up the title, and the great
Wigram estate, and every thing. Why, my brother says, uncle Wigram can't
live three months; and Lord Puckeridge's title, too, will come to my
brother, you know; and Amelia might have been Lady Puckeridge. Only
think! did you ever know any thing so foolish?"

"Never!" said Mrs. Beaumont; "but you know, my dear, so few girls have
the sense you show in taking advice: they all will judge for themselves.
But I'm most hurt by Amelia's want of gratitude and delicacy towards
_me_," continued Mrs. Beaumont; "only conceive the difficulty and
distress in which she has left me about your poor brother. Such a shock
as the disappointment will be to him! And he may--though Heaven knows
how little I deserve it--he may suspect--for men, when they are vexed
and angry, will, you know, suspect even their best friends; he might, I
say, suspect me of not being warm in his cause."

"Dear, no! I have always told him how kind you were, and how much you
wished the thing; and of all people in the world he can't blame you,
dearest Mrs. Beaumont."

At this instant Mrs. Beaumont saw a glimpse of somebody in a bye-path of
the shrubbery near them. "Hush! Take care! Who is that lurking there?
Some listener! Who can it be?"

Miss Hunter applied her glass to her eye, but could not make out
who it was.

"It is Lightbody, I declare," said Mrs. Beaumont. "Softly,--let us not
pretend to see him, and watch what he will do. It is of the greatest
consequence to me to know whether he is a listener or not; so much as he
is about the house."

An irresistible fit of giggling, which seized Miss Hunter at the odd way
in which Lightbody walked, prevented Mrs. Beaumont's trial of his
curiosity. At the noise which the young lady made, Mr. Lightbody turned
his head, and immediately advancing, with his accustomed mixture of
effrontery and servility, said, that "he had executed Mrs. Beaumont's
commands, and that he had returned in hopes of getting a moment to say a
word to her when she was at leisure, about something he had just learned
from Mr. Palmer's man Crichton, which it was of consequence she should
know without delay."

"Oh, thank you, you best of creatures; but I know all that already."

"You know that Mr. Palmer does not go to-morrow?"

"Yes; and am so rejoiced at it! Do, my dear Lightbody, go to Amelia
and my son from me, and tell them that charming news. And after that,
pray have the compassion to inquire if the post is not come in yet,
and run over the papers, to see if you can find any thing about
Walsingham's prize."

Mr. Lightbody obeyed, but not with his usual alacrity. Mrs. Beaumont
mused for a moment, and then said, "I do believe he was listening. What
could he be doing there?"

"Doing!--Oh, nothing," said Miss Hunter: "he's never doing any thing,
you know; and as to listening, he was so far off he could not hear a
word we said: besides, he is such a simple creature, and loves you so!"

"I don't know," said Mrs. Beaumont; "he either did not play me fair, or
else he did a job I employed him in this morning so awkwardly, that I
never wish to employ him again. He is but a _low_ kind of person, after
all; I'll get rid of him: that sort of people always grow tiresome and
troublesome after a time, and one must shake them off. But I have not
leisure to think of him now--Well, my dear, to go on with what I was
saying to you."

Mrs. Beaumont went on talking of her friendship for Sir John Hunter, and
of the difficulty of appeasing him; but observing that Miss Hunter
listened only with forced attention, she paused to consider what this
could mean. Habitually suspicious, like all insincere people, Mrs.
Beaumont now began to imagine that there was some plot carrying on
against her by Sir John Hunter and Lightbody, and that Miss Hunter was
made use of against her. Having a most contemptible opinion of her
Albina's understanding, and knowing that her young friend had too little
capacity to be able to deceive her, or to invent a plausible excuse
impromptu, Mrs. Beaumont turned quick, and exclaimed, "My dear, what
could Lightbody be saying to you when I came up?--for I remember he
stopped short, and you both looked so guilty."

"Guilty! did I?--Did he?--Dearest Mrs. Beaumont, don't look at me so
with your piercing eyes!--Oh! I vow and protest I can't tell you; I
won't tell you."

The young lady tittered, and twisted herself into various affected
attitudes; then kissing Mrs. Beaumont, and then turning her back
with childish playfulness, she cried, "No, I won't tell you; never,
never, never!"

"Come, come, my dear, don't trifle; I have really business to do, and am
in a hurry."

"Well, don't look at me--never look at me again--promise me that, and
I'll tell you. Poor Lightbody--Oh, you're looking at me!--Poor Lightbody
was talking to me of _somebody_, and he laid me a wager--but I can't
tell you that--Ah, don't be angry with me, and I will tell, if you'll
turn your head quite away!--that I should be married to _somebody_
before the end of this year. Oh, now, don't look at me, dearest, dearest
Mrs. Beaumont."

"You dear little simpleton, and was that all?" said Mrs. Beaumont, vexed
to have wasted her time upon such folly: "come, be serious now, my dear;
if you knew the anxiety I am in at this moment--" But wisely judging
that it would be in vain to hope for any portion of the love-sick
damsel's attention, until she had confirmed her hopes of being married
to _somebody_ before the end of the year, Mrs. Beaumont scrupled not to
throw out assurances, in which she had herself no further faith. After
what she had heard from her son this morning, she must have been
convinced that there was no chance of marrying him to Miss Hunter; she
knew indeed positively, that he would soon declare his real attachment,
but she could, she thought, during the interval retain her power over
Miss Hunter, and secure her services, by concealing the truth.

"Before I say one word more of my own affairs, let me, my dearest child,
assure you, that in the midst of all these disappointments and
mortifications about Amelia, I am supported by the hope--by something
more than the hope--that I shall see the daughter of my heart happily
settled soon: Lightbody does not want penetration, I see. But I am not
at liberty to say more. So now, my dear, help me with all your
cleverness to consider what I shall do in the difficulties I am in at
this moment. Your brother has a letter of mine, approving, and so forth,
his addresses to my daughter; now, if he, in the first rashness of his
anger, should produce this to Palmer, I'm undone--or to my son, worse
and worse! there would be a duel between them infallibly, for Beaumont
is so warm on any point of honour--Oh, I dread to think of it, my dear!"

"So do I, I'm sure; but, Lord, I'm the worst person to think in a
hurry--But can't you write a letter? for you always know what to say so
well--And after all, do you know, I don't think he'll be half so angry
or _so disappointed_ as you fancy, for I never thought he was so much in
love with Amelia."

"Indeed!"

"I know, if it was not a secret, I could tell you--"

"What? No secrets between us, my darling child."

"Then I can tell you, that just before he proposed for Amelia, he was
consulting with me about proposing for Mrs. Dutton."

"Mrs. Dutton, the widow! Mrs. Dutton! How you astonish me!" said Mrs.
Beaumont (though she knew this before). "Why she is older than I am."

"Older! yes, a great deal; but then you know my brother is no
chicken himself."

"To be sure, compared with you, my dear, he is not young. There's a
prodigious difference between you."

"Above twenty years; _for,_ you know, he's by another marriage."

"True; but I can't believe he proposed for Mrs. Dutton."

"Not actually proposed, because I would not let him; for I should have
hated to have had such an unfashionable-looking woman for my
sister-in-law. I never could have borne to go into public with her, you
know: so I plagued my brother out of it; and luckily he found out that
her jointure is not half so great as it was said to be."

"I could have told him that. Mrs. Dutton's jointure is nothing nearly so
large as mine was, even before the addition to it which my son so
handsomely, and indeed unexpectedly, made to it this morning. And did I
tell you, my dear? Mr. Palmer, this day, has been so kind as to leave me
all his immense fortune for my own life. But don't mention it, lest it
should get round, and make ill-will: the Walsinghams know nothing of it.
But to return to your poor brother--if I could any way serve him with
Mrs. Dutton?"

"La! he'd never think of her more--and I'm sure I would not have him."

"You dear little saucy creature! indeed I cannot wonder that you don't
like the thoughts of Mrs. Dutton for a _chaperon_ in town."

"Oh, horrid! horrid!"

"And yet, would you condemn your poor brother to be an old bachelor,
after this disappointment with Amelia?"

"La, ma'am, can't he marry any body but Mrs. Dutton?"

"I wish I could think of any person would suit him. Can you?'

"Oh, I know very well who I think would suit him, and one I like to go
into public with of all things."

"Who?"

"And one who has promised to present me at court next winter."

"My dearest child! is it possible that you mean me?"

"I do;--and why not?"

"Why not! My sweet love, do you consider my age?"

"But you look so young."

"To be sure Mrs. Dutton looks older, and is older; but I could not bring
myself, especially after being a widow so long, to think of marrying a
young man--to be sure, your brother is not what one should call a very
young man."

"Dear, no; you don't look above three, or four, or five years older than
he does; and in public, and with dress, and rouge, and fashion, and all
that, I think it would do vastly well, and nobody would think it odd at
all. There's Lady ----, is not she ten years older than Lord ----? and
every body says that's nothing, and that she gives the most delightful
parties. Oh, I declare, dearest Mrs. Beaumont, you must and shall marry
my brother, and that's the only way to make him amends, and prevent
mischief between the gentlemen; the only way to settle every thing
charmingly--and I shall so like it--and I'm so proud of its being my
plan! I vow, I'll go and write to my brother this minute, and--"

"Stay, you dear mad creature; only consider what you are about."

"Consider! I have considered, and I must and will have my own way," said
the dear mad creature, struggling with Mrs. Beaumont, who detained her
with an earnest hand. "My love," said she, "I positively cannot let you
use my name in such a strange way. If your brother or the world should
think I had any share in the transaction, it would be so indelicate."

"Indelicate! Dear me, ma'am, but when nobody will know it, how can it
be indelicate? and I will not mention your name, and nobody will ever
imagine that you knew any thing of my writing; and I shall manage it
all my own way; and the plan is all my own: so let me go and write
this minute."

"Mercy upon me! what shall I do with this dear headstrong creature!"
said Mrs. Beaumont, letting Miss Hunter go, as if exhausted by the
struggle she had made to detain her impetuous young friend. Away ran
Miss Hunter, sometimes looking back in defiance and laughing, whilst
Mrs. Beaumont shook her head at her whenever she looked back, but found
it impossible to overtake her, and vain to make further opposition. As
Mrs. Beaumont walked slowly homewards, she meditated her own epistle to
Sir John Hunter, and arranged her future plan of operations.

If, thought she, Miss Hunter's letter should not succeed, it is only a
suggestion of hers, of which I am not supposed to know any thing, and I
am only just where I was before. If it does succeed, and if Sir John
transfers his addresses to me, I avoid all danger of his anger on
account of his disappointment with Amelia; for it must then be his play,
to convince me that he is not at all disappointed, and then I shall have
leisure to consider whether I shall marry Sir John or not. At all
events, I can draw on his courtship as long as I please, till I have by
degrees brought Mr. Palmer round to approve of the match.

With these views Mrs. Beaumont wrote an incomparable letter to Sir John
Hunter, in which she enveloped her meaning in so many words, and so much
sentiment, that it was scarcely possible to comprehend any thing,
except, "that she should be glad to see Sir John Hunter the next day, to
explain to him a circumstance that had given her, on his account,
heartfelt uneasiness." Miss Hunter's letter was carefully revised by
Mrs. Beaumont, though she was to know nothing of it; and such was the
art with which it was retouched, that, after all proper corrections,
nothing appeared but the most childish and imprudent simplicity.

After having despatched these letters, Mrs. Beaumont felt much anxiety
about the effect which they might produce; but she was doomed by her own
habits of insincerity to have perpetually the irksome task of assuming
an appearance contrary to her real feelings. Amelia was better, and Mr.
Palmer's determination to stay in England had spread a degree of
cheerfulness over the whole family, which had not been felt for some
time at Beaumont Park. In this general delight Mrs. Beaumont was
compelled seemingly to sympathize: she performed her part so well, that
even Dr. Wheeler and Captain Lightbody, who had been behind the scenes,
began to believe that the actress was in earnest. Amelia, alas! knew her
mother too well to be the dupe even of her most consummate powers of
acting. All that Mrs. Beaumont said about her joy, and her hopes that
Captain Walsingham would soon appear and confirm her happy
_pre-sentiments_, Amelia heard without daring to believe. She had such
an opinion of her mother's address, such a sublime superstitious dread
that her mother would, by some inscrutable means, work out her own
purposes, that she felt as if she could not escape from these secret
machinations. Amelia still apprehended that Sir John Hunter would not be
irrevocably dismissed, and that by some turn of artifice she should find
herself bound to him. The next morning Sir John Hunter, however, finally
relieved her from these apprehensions. After having been closeted for
upwards of two hours with Mrs. Beaumont, he begged to speak to Miss
Beaumont; and he resigned all pretensions to the honour which he had so
long and so ardently aspired to. It was his pride to show that his
spirits were not affected by this disappointment: he scarcely indeed
exhibited that decent appearance of mortification which is usually
expected on such an occasion; but with provoking haughtiness professed
himself sincerely obliged to Miss Beaumont for having, _however late in
the business_, prevented him, by her candour, from the danger of
crossing her inclinations. For this he could scarcely be sufficiently
thankful, when he considered how every day showed the consequences of
marrying young ladies whose affections were previously engaged. He had
only to add, that he hoped the world would see _the thing_ in the same
light in which he took it, and that Miss Beaumont might not find herself
blamed for breaking off _the matter_, after it had been so publicly
reported: that, for his part, he assured her, he would, as far as he was
concerned, do his utmost to silence unpleasant observations; and that,
as the most effectual means to do this, he conceived, would be to show
that he continued on an amicable footing with the family, he should do
himself the honour to avail himself of the permission--invitation,
indeed--he had just received from Mrs. Beaumont, to continue his visits
as usual at Beaumont Park.

To this Amelia could make no objection after the express declaration
which he had just made, that he renounced all pretensions to her favour.
However keenly she felt the implied reproach of having encouraged Sir
John as her admirer, while her affections were previously engaged, and
of having shown candour _late_ in this affair, she could not vindicate
herself without accusing her mother; therefore she attempted neither
excuse nor apology, submitted to let the unfeeling baronet enjoy her
confusion, whilst she said, in general terms, she felt obliged by his
assurance that she should not be the cause of any quarrel between two
families who had hitherto lived in friendship.




CHAPTER XIV.

    "Him no soft thoughts, no gratitude could move;
    To gold he fled, from beauty and from love!"
                                            DRYDEN.


All that passed in the two hours' conversation between the discarded
baronet and the mother of his late mistress did not transpire; but Mrs.
Beaumont said that she had taken infinite pains to reconcile Sir John to
his fate, and his subsequent behaviour showed that she had succeeded.
His attention towards her also plainly proved that he was not
dissatisfied by the part she had acted, or rather by the part that he
thought she had acted. Thus all things went on smoothly. Mrs. Beaumont,
in confidence, told her friend, Miss Hunter, that Sir John had behaved
with the greatest propriety and candour (candour! that hackneyed word);
that he had acknowledged that his principal inducement to propose for
her daughter had been a desire to be connected with a family for which
he had such peculiar regard.

"This, my love," continued Mrs. Beaumont, "was all, you know, that your
brother could, with propriety, say on such an occasion; all indeed that
I would permit him to say. As to the rest, on Amelia's account, you
know, I could not refuse his request to continue his visits in this
family on the same footing of friendship as usual."

Whether this was the truth and the whole truth, the mystery that
involves all cabinet-councils, and more especially those of female
politicians, prevents the cautious historian from presuming to decide.
But arguing from general causes, and from the established characters and
ruling passions of the parties concerned, we may safely conjecture that
the baronet did not at this time make any decisive proposal to the lady,
but that he kept himself at liberty to advance or recede, as
circumstances should render it expedient. His ruling passion was
avarice; and though he had been allured by the hints which his sister
had thrown out concerning Mrs. Beaumont's increased jointure, and vast
expectancies from Mr. Palmer, yet he was not so rash as to act
decisively upon such vague information: he had wisely determined to
obtain accurate and positive evidence from Captain Lightbody, who
seemed, in this case, to be the common vouchee; but Lightbody happened
to be gone out to shoot _flappers_.[4]

Consequently Sir John wisely entrenched himself in general professions
of regard to Mrs. Beaumont, and reflections on the happiness of being
connected with such a respectable family. Mrs. Beaumont, who understood
the whole of the game, now saw that her play must be to take Captain
Lightbody again into her confidence.

Ever careful not to commit herself, she employed Miss Hunter to
communicate _her own scheme_ to the captain, and to prepare him on the
requisite points with proper answers to those inquiries which she
foresaw the baronet would make.

"You know, my love," said Mrs. Beaumont, "you can find a proper moment
to say all you wish to Lightbody."

"Oh, yes," said Miss Hunter, "I will if I possibly can this day; but it
is so difficult to find a good time--"

"At dinner, suppose?" said Mrs. Beaumont.

"At dinner! surely, ma'am, that's an awkward time, is not it, for
talking of secrets?"

"The best time in the world, my dear; you know we are to have the
Duttons, and the Lord knows whom besides, to-day. And when there's a
large company, and every body talking at once, and eating, and
drinking, and carving, it is the best time in the world! You may say
what you please; your neighbours are all happily engaged, too busy to
mind you. Get near fat Mr. Dutton, and behind the screen of his
prodigious elbow you will be comfortably recessed from curious
impertinents. My dear, the most perfect solitude is not so convenient
as one of these great dinners."

Whilst Mrs. Beaumont was demonstrating to Miss Hunter that the most
convenient and secure time for a _tête-à-tête_ is at a large dinner, she
happened to look out of the window, near which they were standing, and
she saw her son and daughter with Mr. Palmer walking in the park; they
sat down under a tree within view of the house.

"Come away from the window, my dear," said Mrs. Beaumont; "they will
observe us, and perhaps think we are plotting something. I wonder what
they are talking of! Look how earnestly Amelia is stretching out her
neck, and Mr. Palmer striking his cane upon the ground. Come back a
little, my dear, come back; you can see as well here."

"But I see a gentleman on horseback, galloping. Oh, ma'am, look! he has
stopped! he has jumped off his horse! Captain Walsingham it must be!"

"Captain Walsingham it really is!" said Mrs. Beaumont, pressing forward
to look out of the window, yet standing so, that she could not be seen
from without.

"Dear," said Miss Hunter, "but how delighted Mr. Beaumont seems; and how
Mr. Palmer shakes Captain Walsingham's hand, as if he had known him
these hundred years! What can make them so glad to see him? Do look at
them, ma'am."

"I see it all!" said Mrs. Beaumont, with an involuntary sigh.

"But, dear Mrs. Beaumont," pursued Miss Hunter, "if he has actually come
at last to propose for Amelia, don't you think he is doing it in a
shabby sort of way? When he has been in London too--and if he has taken
such a treasure too, could not he have come down here a little more in
style, with some sort of an equipage of his own at least? But now only
look at him; would you, if you met him on the road, know him from any
common man?"

Another sigh, deep and sincere, was all the answer Mrs. Beaumont made.

"I am sure," continued Miss Hunter, as Mrs. Beaumont drew her away from
the window, "I am sure, I think Amelia has not gained much by the change
of admirers; for what's a captain of a ship?"

"He ranks with a colonel in the army, to be sure," said Mrs. Beaumont;
"but Amelia might have looked much higher. If she does not know her own
interest and dignity, that is not my fault."

"If she had such a fortune as I shall have," said Miss Hunter, "she
might afford to marry for love, because you know she could make her
husband afterwards keep her proper equipages, and take her to town, and
go into parliament, and get a title for her too!"

"Very true, my darling," said Mrs. Beaumont, who was at this instant so
absent, that she assented without having heard one syllable that her
darling said.

"But for Amelia, who has no such great fortune of her own, it is quite
another thing, you know, dearest Mrs. Beaumont. Oh, you'll see how
she'll repent when she sees you Lady Puckeridge, and herself plain Mrs.
Walsingham. And when she sees the figure you'll make in town next
winter, and the style my brother will live in--Oh, then she'll see what
a difference there is between Sir John Hunter and Captain Walsingham!"

"Very true, indeed, my dear," said Mrs. Beaumont; and this time she did
not answer without having heard the assertion. The door opened.

"Captain Walsingham! dare I believe my eyes? And do I see our friend,
Captain Walsingham, again at last?"

"At last! Oh, Mrs. Beaumont, you don't know how hard I have worked to
get here."

"How kind! But won't you sit down and tell me?"

"No; I can neither sit, nor rest, nor speak, nor think upon any subject
but one," said Captain Walsingham.

"That's right," cried Mr. Palmer.

"Mrs. Beaumont--pardon my abruptness," continued Captain Walsingham,
"but you see before you a man whose whole happiness is at stake. May I
beg a few minutes' conversation with you?"

"This instant," said Mrs. Beaumont, hesitating; but she saw that Mr.
Palmer's eye was upon her, so with a smile she complied immediately; and
giving her hand graciously to Captain Walsingham, she accompanied him
into a little reading-room within the drawing-room.

"May I hope that we are friends?" said Captain Walsingham; "may I hope
so, Mrs. Beaumont--may I?"

"Good Heavens! Friends! assuredly; I hope so. I have always had and
expressed the highest opinion of you, Captain Walsingham."

"I have had one, and, hitherto, but one opportunity of showing myself,
in any degree, deserving of your esteem, madam," said Captain
Walsingham. "When I was in this country some years ago, you must have
seen how passionately I was in love with your daughter; but I knew that
my circumstances were then such that I could not hope to obtain Miss
Beaumont's hand; and you will do me the justice to allow that I behaved
with prudence. Of the difficulty of the task I alone can judge."

Mrs. Beaumont declared, that she admired Captain Walsingham's conduct
inexpressibly, now that she understood what his feelings and motives
had been; but really he had kept his own secret so honourably, that she
had not, till within these few days, when it was _let out_ by Mr.
Walsingham to Mr. Palmer, had the most distant idea of his being
attached to her daughter.

Captain Walsingham was too polite even to _look_ a doubt of the truth of
a lady's assertion: he therefore believed, because it was impossible.

Mrs. Beaumont, determining to make her story consistent, repeated nearly
what she had said to Mr. Palmer, and went on to confess that she had
often, with a mother's pride, perhaps, in her own secret thoughts
wondered at the indifference Captain Walsingham showed towards Amelia.

Captain Walsingham was surprised that Mrs. Beaumont's penetration should
have been so strangely mistaken; especially as the symptoms of
admiration and love must be so well known to a lady who had so many and
such passionate admirers.

Mrs. Beaumont smiled, and observed, that Captain Walsingham, though a
seaman, had all the address of a courtier, and she acknowledged that she
loved address.

"If by address Mrs. Beaumont means politeness, I admire it as much as
she does; but I disclaim and despise all that paltry system of artifice,
which is sometimes called address. No person of a great mind ever
condescends to use _address_ in that sense of the word; not because they
cannot, but because they will not."

"Certainly--certainly," said Mrs. Beaumont; "there is nothing I love so
much as frankness."

"Then, frankly, Mrs. Beaumont, may I hope for your approbation in
addressing Miss Beaumont?"

"Frankly, then, you have my full approbation. This is the very thing I
have long secretly wished, as Mr. Palmer can tell you. You have ever
been the son-in-law of my choice, though not of my hopes."

Delighted with this frank answer, this full approbation, this assurance
that he had always been the son-in-law of her choice, Captain Walsingham
poured out his warm heart in joy and gratitude. All suspicions of Mrs.
Beaumont were forgotten; for suspicion was unnatural to his mind: though
he knew, though he had experience almost from childhood, of her
character, yet, at this instant, he thought he had, till now, been
always prejudiced, always mistaken. Happy those who can be thus duped by
the warmth of their own hearts! It is a happiness which they who smile
in scorn at their credulity can never enjoy.

Wakening a little to the use of his understanding, Captain Walsingham
disconcerted Mrs. Beaumont, by suddenly saying, "Then there was not any
truth in the report, which I have heard with horror, that you were going
to marry Miss Beaumont to Sir John Hunter?"

"Then there was not any truth in the report I heard with horror, that
you were going to marry yourself to a Spanish nun?" said Mrs. Beaumont,
who had learned from a veteran in public warfare, that the best way to
parry an attack is not to defend, but to make an assault.

"My dear Captain Walsingham," added she, with an arch smile, "I really
thought you were a man of too much sense, and above all, too much
courage, to be terror-struck by every idle report. You should leave such
_horrors_ to us weak women--to the visionary mind. Now, I could not
blame poor Amelia, if she were to ask, 'Then was there no truth in the
report of the Spanish incognita?'--No, no," pursued Mrs. Beaumont,
playfully, refusing to hear Captain Walsingham; "not to me, not to _me_,
must your defence be made. Appear before your judge, appear before
Amelia; I can only recommend you to mercy."

What a charming woman this Mrs. Beaumont would be, if one could feel
quite sure of her sincerity, thought Captain Walsingham, as he followed
the lady, who, with apparently playful, but really polite grace, thus
eluded all further inquiry into her secret manoeuvres.

"Here, my dearest Amelia," cried she, "is a culprit, whom I am bringing
to your august tribunal for mercy."

"For justice," said Captain Walsingham.

"Justice! Oh, the pride of the man's heart, and the folly! Who ever
talks of justice to a woman? My dear captain, talk of mercy, or cruelty,
if you will; we ladies delight in being called cruel, you know, and
sometimes are even pleased to be merciful--but to be just, is the last
thing we think of: so now for your trial; public or private, Captain
Walsingham?"

"Public! as I am innocent."

"Oyes, oyes! all manner of men," cried Mr. Beaumont.

"The Spanish cause coming on!" cried Mr. Palmer: "let me hear it; and
let me have a good seat that I may hear--a seat near the judge."

"Oh, you shall be judge, Mr. Palmer," said Amelia; "and here is the best
seat for our good judge."

"And you will remember," said Mr. Beaumont, "that it is the duty of a
good judge to lean towards the prisoner."

"To lean! No, to sit bolt upright, as I will if I can," said old Mr.
Palmer, entering into the pleasantry of the young people as readily as
if he had been the youngest man in the company. As he looked round, his
good countenance beamed with benevolent pleasure.

"Now, sir captain, be pleased to inform the court what you have done, or
mean to do, with a certain Spanish nun, whom, as it is confidently
asserted in a letter from one of your own men, you carried off from her
nunnery, and did bring, or cause to be brought, with you to England."

"My lord judge, will you do me the favour, or the justice, to order that
the letter alluded to may be read in court?"

This was ordered, and done accordingly.

"My lord judge," said Captain Walsingham, "I have nothing to object to
the truth of the main points of this story; and considering that it was
told by a very young man, and a traveller, it contains but a reasonable
share of _'travellers' wonders.'_ Considering the opportunity and
temptation for embellishments afforded by such a romantic tale, less has
been added to it by the narrator than the usual progress of strange
reports might have prepared me to expect. It is most true, as it has
been stated, that I did, by her own desire, carry away from a nunnery,
at ----, this lady, who was neither a nun nor a Spanish lady, nor, as
I am compelled by my regard to truth to add, young, nor yet handsome.
My lord judge, far be it from me to impeach the veracity of the
letter-writer. It is admitted by the highest and the lowest authorities,
that beauty is a matter of taste, and that for taste there is no
standard; it is also notorious, that to a sailor every woman is fair and
young, who is not as old as Hecuba, or as ugly as Caifacaratadaddera. I
can therefore speak only to my own opinion and judgment. And really, my
lord, it grieves me much to spoil the romance, to destroy the effect of
a tale, which might in future serve for the foundation of some novel,
over which belles and beaux, yet unborn, might weep and wonder: it
grieves me much, I say, to be compelled by the severity of this
cross-examination to declare the simple truth, that there was no love in
the case; that, to the very best of my belief and judgment, the lady was
not in love with any body, much less with me."

"As you have admitted, sir," said the judge, "as you have voluntarily
stated, that to a sailor every woman is fair and young, who is not as
old as Hecuba, or as ugly as that other woman with the unspeakable name,
you will be pleased to inform the court how it happened, or how it was
possible, that in the course of a long voyage, you could avoid falling
in love with the damsel whom you had thus rescued and carried off.
Experience shows us, sir, that at land, and, I presume, at sea,
proximity is one of the most common causes of love. Now, I understand,
she was the only woman you saw for some months; and she had, I think you
allow, possession of your cabin, to and from which you had of course
constant egress and regress. Sir, human nature is human nature; here is
temptation, and opportunity, and circumstantial evidence enough, in our
days, to hang a man. What have you to offer in your defence, young man?"

"The plain fact, my lord, is, that instead of three months, I was but
three days in the dangerous state of proximity with the Spanish lady.
But had it been three months, or three years, there is my defence, my
lord," said Captain Walsingham, bowing to Amelia. "At the first _blush_,
you allow it, I see, to be powerful; but how powerful, you cannot feel
as I do, without having looked, as I have done, into the mind."

"I have looked into the mind as well as you, sir. You have a great deal
of assurance, to tell me I cannot feel and judge as well as you can.
But, nevertheless, I shall do you justice. I think your defence is
sufficient. I believe we must acquit him. But, pray--the plain matter of
fact, which I wanted to hear, I have not yet got at. What have you done
with this lady? and where is she?"

"She was carried safely to her friends--to her friend, for she has but
one friend, that I could find out, an old aunt, who lives in an obscure
lodging, in a narrow street, in London."

"And, upon honour, this is all you know about her?" said Mrs. Beaumont.

"All--except that she is in hopes of recovering some property, of which
she says she has been unjustly defrauded by some of her relations. After
I had paid my respects at the Admiralty, I made it my business to see
the lady, and to offer my services; but into her lawsuits, I thank God,
it was not my business to inquire, I recommended to her a good honest
lawyer, and came here as fast as horses could carry me."

"But was not there some giving of diamonds, and exchanging of rings, one
day, upon deck?" said Mrs. Beaumont.

"None," said Captain Walsingham; "that was a mere fable of poor Birch's
imagination. I recollect the lady showed me a Spanish motto upon her
ring; that is all I can remember about rings.--She had no diamonds, and
very few clothes. Now," cried Captain Walsingham, growing a little
impatient of the length of his trial, for he had not yet been able to
speak for more than an instant to Amelia, "now, I hope, my trial is
ended; else its length will be, as in some other cases, the worst of
punishments."

"Acquitted! acquitted! honourably acquitted!" said Mr. Palmer.

"Acquitted, acquitted, honourably acquitted by general acclamation,"
cried Mr. Beaumont.

"Acquitted by a smile from Amelia, worth all our acclamations," said
Mrs. Beaumont.

"Captain Walsingham," said Miss Hunter, "did the lady come to England
and go to London in a Spanish dress and long waist?"

She spoke, but Captain Walsingham did not hear her important question.
She turned to repeat it, but the captain was gone, and Amelia with him.

"Bless me! how quick! how odd!" said Miss Hunter, with a pouting look,
which seemed to add--nobody carries me off!

Mr. Beaumont looked duller than was becoming.

Mrs. Beaumont applied herself to adjust the pretty curls of Miss
Hunter's hair; and Mr. Palmer, in one of his absent fits, hummed aloud,
as he walked up and down the room,

    "'And it's, Oh! what will become of me?
    Oh! what shall I do?
    Nobody coming to marry me,
    Nobody coming to woo.'"




CHAPTER XV.

    "True love's the gift which God has giv'n
    To man alone, beneath the heav'n;
    It is the secret sympathy,
    The silver link, the silken tie,
    Which heart to heart, and mind to mind,
    In body and in soul can bind."


Happy love, though the most delightful in reality, is the most
uninteresting in description; and lovers are proverbially bad company,
except for one another: therefore we shall not intrude on Captain
Walsingham and Amelia, nor shall we give a journal of the days of
courtship; those days which, by Rousseau, and many people, have been
pronounced to be the happiest; by others, the only happy days of
existence; and which, by some privileged or prudent few, have been found
to be but the prelude to the increasing pleasures of domestic union.

Now that Mr. Beaumont saw his sister and his friend thus gratified in
their mutual esteem and affection,--now that he saw all obstacles to
their union removed, he became uncontroulably impatient to declare his
own attachment to Miss Walsingham.

"My dear mother, I can bear it no longer. Believe me, you are mistaken
in the whole romance you have imagined to yourself about Miss Hunter.
She is no more in love with me than I am with her. Since you fixed my
attention upon her, I have studied the young lady. She is not capable of
love: I don't mean that she is not capable of wishing to be married, but
that is quite a different affair, which need not give me any peculiar
disturbance. My dear mother, find another husband for her, and my life
for it, her heart will not break; especially if you give her bales of
wedding finery enough to think and talk about for a calendar year.

"You abominably malicious monster of cruelty, I will not smile, nor will
I allow you to indulge your humour in this manner at the expense of your
poor victim."

"Victim! never saw a girl look less like a victim, except, indeed, as to
her ornaments. I believe it is the etiquette for victims to appear
dressed out with garlands, and ribands, and flowers."

"Positively, Edward, I won't allow you to go on in this style;--do you
know you seriously hurt and offend me? do you consider that Miss
Hunter's mother was my most intimate friend, and this match I have
anxiously wished, in consequence of an agreement made between us at your
birth and Albina's?"

"Oh, ma'am, those agreements never turned out well, from the time of the
Arabian tales to the present moment. And you must pardon me if, after
having tried all that reason and patience would do, in vain, I now come
to impatience, and a little innocent ridicule. Except by laughing, I
have no other way left of convincing you that I never can or will marry
this young lady."

"But so pretty a creature! Surely you _have thought_ her pretty."

"Extremely pretty. And I acknowledge that there have been moments when
the influence of her--beauty, I can't call it--prettiness, joined to the
power of my mother's irresistible address, have almost lapped me in
elysium--a fool's paradise. But, thank Heaven and Miss Walsingham! I
unlapped myself; and though the sweet airs took my fancy, they never
imprisoned my soul."

"Vastly poetical! quite in the blue-stocking style."

"Blue-stocking! Dear mother, that expression is not elegant enough for
you. That commonplace taunt is unworthy of my mother," said Mr.
Beaumont, warmly, for he was thrown off his guard by the reflection
implied on Miss Walsingham. "Ignorant silly women may be allowed to
sneer at information and talents in their own sex, and, if they have
read them, may talk of _'Les Précieuses Ridicules_,' and _'Les Femmes
Savantes_,' and may borrow from Molière all the wit they want, to
support the cause of folly. But from women who are themselves
distinguished for talents, such apostasy--but I am speaking to my
mother--I forbear."

"Great forbearance to your mother you have shown, in truth," cried Mrs.
Beaumont, reddening with genuine anger: "Marry as you please! I have
done. Fool that I have been, to devote my life to plans for the
happiness and aggrandizement of my children! It is now time I should
think of myself. You shall not see me the defeated, deserted, duped,
despised mother--the old dowager _permitted_ in the house of which she
was once the mistress! No, no, Mr. Beaumont," cried she, rising
indignantly, "this shall never, never be."

Touched and astonished by a burst of passion, such as he scarcely had
ever before seen from his mother, Mr. Beaumont stopped her as she rose;
and taking her hand in the most affectionate manner, "Forgive me, my
dear mother, the hasty words I said just now. I was very much in the
wrong. I beg your pardon. Forgive your son."

Mrs. Beaumont struggled to withdraw the hand which her son
forcibly detained.

"Be always," continued he, "be always mistress of this house, of me, and
mine. The chosen wife of my heart will never torment you, or degrade
herself, with paltry struggles for power. Your days shall be happy and
honoured: believe me, I speak from my heart."

Mrs. Beaumont looked as if her anger had subsided; yet, as if struggling
with unusual feelings, she sat silent. Mr. Beaumont continued, "Your
son--who is no sentimentalist, no speech-maker--your son, who has
hitherto perhaps been too rough, too harsh--now implores you, by these
sincere caresses, by all that is tender and true in nature, to believe
in the filial affection of your children. Give us, simply give us your
confidence; and our confidence, free and unconstrained, shall be given
in return. Then we shall be happy indeed."

Touched, vanquished, Mrs. Beaumont leaned her head on her son, and said,
"Then we shall be happy indeed!" The exclamation was sincere: at this
moment she thought as she spoke. All her schemes were forgotten: the
reversionary title, the Wigram estate--all, all forgotten: miraculous
eloquence and power of truth!

"What happiness!" said Mrs. Beaumont: "I ask no other. You are right, my
dear son; marry Miss Walsingham, and we have enough, and more than
enough, for happiness. You are right; and henceforward we shall have but
one mind amongst us."

With true gratitude and joy her son embraced her; and this was the most
delightful, perhaps the only really delightful, moment she had felt for
years. She was sincere, and at ease. But this touch of nature, strong as
it was, operated only for a moment: habit resumed her influence; art
regained her pupil and her slave! Captain Lightbody and Miss Hunter came
into the room; and with them came low thoughts of plots, and notes, and
baronets, and equipages, and a reversionary title, and the Wigram
estate. What different ideas of happiness! Her son, in the mean time,
had started up, mounted his horse, and had galloped off to realize some
of his ideas of felicity, by the immediate offer of his hand to the lady
who possessed his whole heart. Cool as policy, just recovered from the
danger of imprudent sensibility, could make her, Mrs. Beaumont was now
all herself again.

"Have you found much amusement shooting this morning, Lightbody?" said
she, carelessly.

"No, ma'am; done nothing--just nothing at all--for I met Sir John in the
grounds, and could not leave him. Poor Sir John, ma'am; I tell him we
must get him a crook; he is quite turned despairing shepherd. Never saw
a man so changed. Upon my soul, he is--seriously now, Mrs. Beaumont, you
need not laugh--I always told Sir John that his time of falling in love
would come; and come it has, at last, with a vengeance."

"Oh, nonsense! nonsense, Lightbody! This to me! and of Sir John Hunter!"

Though Mrs. Beaumont called it, and thought it nonsense, yet it
flattered her; and though she appeared half offended by flattery so
gross, as to seem almost an insult upon her understanding, yet her
vanity was secretly gratified, even by feeling that she had dependents
who were thus obliged to flatter; and though she despised Captain
Lightbody for the meanness, yet he made his court to her successfully,
by persisting in all the audacity of adulation. She knew Sir John
Hunter too well to believe that he was liable to fall in love with any
thing but a fair estate or a fine fortune; yet she was gratified by
feeling that she possessed so great a share of those charms which age
cannot wither; of that substantial power, to which men do not merely
feign in poetical sport to submit, or to which they are slaves only for
a honey-moon, but to which they do homage to the latest hour of life,
with unabating, with increasing devotion. Besides this sense of
pleasure arising from calculation, it may be presumed that, like all
other female politicians, our heroine had something of the woman
lurking at her heart; something of that feminine vanity, which inclines
to believe in the potency of personal charms, even when they are in the
wane. Captain Lightbody's asseverations, and the notes Sir John Hunter
wrote to his sister, were at last listened to by Mrs. Beaumont with
patience, and even with smiles; and, after it had been sufficiently
reiterated, that really it was using Sir John Hunter ill not to give
him some more decisive answer, when he was so unhappy, so impatient,
she at length exclaimed, "Well, Lightbody, tell your friend Sir John,
then, since it must be so, I will consult my friends, and see what can
be done for him."

"When may I say? for I dare not see Sir John again--positively I dare
not meet him--without having some hope to give, something decisive. He
says the next time he comes here he must be allowed to make it known to
the family that he is Mrs. Beaumont's admirer. So, when may I say?"

"Oh, dearest Mrs. Beaumont," cried Miss Hunter, "say to-morrow."

"To-morrow! impossible!"

"But when?" said Miss Hunter: "only look at my brother's note to me
again; you see he is afraid of being cast off at last as he was before
about Amelia, if Mr. Palmer should object; and he says this
disappointment would be such a very different affair."

"Indeed," said Captain Lightbody, "I, who am in Sir John's confidence,
can vouch for that; for I have reason to believe, that--that _the
connexion_ was the charm, and that the daughter would not have been
thought of. Stop, I was charged not to say this. But _when_ Mrs.
Beaumont, to return to my point--"

"Oh! name an early day," cried Miss Hunter, in a fondling tone; "name an
early day for my brother's coming; and then, you know, it will be so
_nice_ to have the wedding days fixed for both marriages. And, dearest
Mrs. Beaumont, remember I am to be your bride's-maid; and we'll have a
magnificent wedding, and I shall be bride's-maid!"

"The dear innocent little creature, how mad she is with spirits! Well,
you shall be my bride's-maid, if the thing takes place."

"_If.--If_ to the winds!--Captain Lightbody, tell my brother--No, I'll
write myself, and tell him he may come."

"How she distresses me! But she is so affectionate, one does not know
how to be angry with her. But, my dear, as to naming the day when he
may publicly declare himself, I cannot; for, you know, I have to break
the affair to Mr. Palmer, and to my son and daughter, and I must take
my own time, and find a happy moment for this; so name a day I cannot;
but in general--and it's always safest to use general terms--you may
say, _soon_."

This was Mrs. Beaumont's ultimatum. The note was written accordingly,
and committed to the care of the confidential captain.

This business of mysterious note-writing, and secret negotiations[5],
was peculiarly suited to our heroine's genius and taste. Considering the
negotiation to be now in effect brought within view of a happy
termination, her ambassador, furnished with her ultimatum, having now
actually set out on his ostensible mission of duck-shooting, our fair
negotiatrix prepared to show the usual degree of gratitude towards those
who had been the principal instruments of her success. The proper time,
she thought, was now arrived, when, having no further occasion for Miss
Hunter's services, she might finally undeceive her young friend as to
any hopes she might retain of a union with Mr. Beaumont; and she felt
that it was now indispensably necessary to disclose the truth, that her
son had declared his attachment to Miss Walsingham.

Mrs. Beaumont opened the delicate case with a sigh, which claimed the
notice of her young confidante.

"What a deep sigh!" said Miss Hunter, who was perfect, to use a musical
term, in her lessons, _pour observer les soupirs_: "What a sigh! I hope
it was for my poor brother?"

"Ah, no, my love! for one nearer my heart--for you."

"For me!--dear me!"

"You see before you a mother, all of whose fondest wishes and plans are
doomed to be frustrated by her children. Amelia would have her way: I
was forced to yield. My son follows her example, insists upon marrying
without fortune, or extraordinary beauty, or any of the advantages which
I had fondly pointed out in the daughter-in-law of my heart. You turn
away from me, my darling! How shall I go on? how shall I tell you all
the terrible truth?"

"Oh, ma'am, pray go on; pray tell me all."

"Miss Walsingham; that's all, in one word. These Walsinghams have forced
themselves into my family,--fairly outwitted me. I cannot tell you how
much, how deeply I am mortified!"

"Thank Heaven! I am not mortified," cried Miss Hunter, throwing back her
head with pettish disdain.

Mrs. Beaumont, who had prepared herself for a fainting fit, or at
least for a flood of tears, rejoiced to see this turn in the young
lady's temper.

"That's right, my own love. Hew I admire your spirit! This pride becomes
you, and is what I expected from your understanding. Set a just value
upon yourself, and show it."

"I should set but little value on myself, indeed, if I did not think
myself equal to Miss Walsingham; but Mr. Beaumont knows best."

"Not best, I fear," said Mrs. Beaumont; "but, from a child he was ever
the most self-willed, uncontrollable being; there was no moving, no
persuading him. There was no power, no appeal, my love, I did not try."

"Dear ma'am, I am excessively sorry you did."

"Why, my dear, I could not refrain from doing all I could, not only for
my son's sake, but for yours, when I saw your affections, as I feared,
so deeply engaged. But your present magnanimity gives me hopes that the
shock will not be irrecoverable."

"Irrecoverable! No, really, ma'am. If Mr. Beaumont expects to see me
wear the willow for him all my life, his vanity will be mistaken."

"Certainly, my dear," replied Mrs. Beaumont, "you would not be so weak
as to wear the willow for any man. A young lady of your fortune should
never wear the weeping but the golden willow. Turn your pretty little
face again towards me, and smile once more upon me."

Miss Hunter had sat with her face turned from Mrs. Beaumont during the
whole of this dialogue--"as if by hiding her face, she could conceal the
emotions of her mind from me," thought her penetrating observer.

"Spare me, spare me, dearest Mrs. Beaumont," cried Miss Hunter, hiding
her face on the arm of the sofa, and seeming now disposed to pass from
the heights of anger to the depths of despair.

Mrs. Beaumont, less hard-hearted than some politicians, who care not who
dies or lives, provided they attain their own objects, now listened at
least with seeming commiseration to her young friend, who, with
intermitting sighs, and in a voice which her position or her sobs
rendered scarcely audible, talked of dying, and of never marrying any
other man upon the earth.

Not much alarmed, however, by the dying words of young ladies, Mrs.
Beaumont confined her attention to the absurdity of the resolution
against marriage in general, and at this instant formed a plan of
marrying Miss Hunter to one of her nephews instead of her son. She had
one unmarried nephew, a young man of good figure and agreeable manners,
but with only a younger brother's portion. To him she thought Miss
Hunter's large fortune would be highly convenient; and she had reason to
believe that his taste in the choice of a wife would be easily governed
by her advice, or by his interest. Thus she could, at least, prevent her
young friend's affections and fortune from going out of the family. In
consequence of this glimpse of a new scheme, our indefatigable
politician applied herself to prepare the way for it with her wonted
skill. She soothed the lovelorn and pettish damsel with every
expression that could gratify pride and rouse high thoughts of revenge.
She suggested that instead of making rash vows of celibacy, which would
only show forlorn constancy, Miss Hunter should abide by her first
spirited declaration, never to wear the willow for any man; and that the
best way to assert her own dignity would be to marry as soon as
possible. After having given this consolatory advice, Mrs. Beaumont left
the young lady's grief to wear itself out. "I know, my love," added she,
"a friend of mine who would die for the happiness which my obstinate son
does not, it seems, know how to value."

"Who, ma'am?" said Miss Hunter, raising her head: "I'm sure I can't
guess whom you can possibly mean--who, ma'am?"

"Ah! my dear, excuse me," said Mrs. Beaumont, "that is a secret I cannot
tell you yet. When you are 'fit to hear yourself convinced,' may be, I
may obtain leave to tell you your admirer's name. I can assure you, he's
a very fashionable and a very agreeable man; a great favourite with our
sex, a particular friend of mine, and an officer."

"Lord bless me!" exclaimed Miss Hunter, starting quite up, "an officer!
I can't imagine whom you mean! Dear Mrs. Beaumont, whom can you mean?"

Mrs. Beaumont walked towards the door.

"Only tell me one thing, dearest Mrs. Beaumont--did I ever see him?"

Mrs. Beaumont, wisely declining to answer any more questions at present,
quitted the room, and left Miss Hunter dying--with curiosity.

The new delight of this fresh project, with the prospect of bringing to
a happy termination her negotiation with Sir John Hunter, sustained Mrs.
Beaumont's spirits in the midst of the disappointments she experienced
respecting the marriages of her son and daughter; and enabled her, with
less effort of dissimulation, to take apparently a share in the general
joy which now pervaded her family. Her son expressed his felicity with
unbounded rapture, when he found his proposal to Miss Walsingham
graciously received by the object of his affections, and by all her
family: his gratitude to his mother for no longer opposing his wishes
gave a tenderness to his manner which would have touched any heart but
that of a politician. Amelia, also, even in the midst of her love for
Captain Walsingham, was anxiously intent upon showing dutiful attention
to her mother, and upon making her some amends for the pain she had
caused her of late. Whenever the brother and sister were together, in
all their views of future happiness their mother was one of their
principal objects; and these dispositions both Miss Walsingham and
Captain Walsingham were earnest to confirm. No young people could have
higher ideas than they had of the duty of children towards parents, and
of the delight of family confidence and union. In former times, when Mr.
Beaumont had been somewhat to blame in the roughness of his sincerity
towards his mother, and when he had been disposed to break from her
artful restraints, Captain Walsingham, by his conversation, and by his
letters, had always used his power and influence to keep him within
bounds; and whenever he could do so with truth, to raise Mrs. Beaumont
in his opinion. She now appeared in a more advantageous light to her
family, and they were more disposed to believe in her sincerity than
they had ever been since the credulous days of childhood. The days of
love and childhood are perhaps, in good minds, almost equally credulous,
or, at least, confiding. Even Mr. Walsingham was won over by the
pleasure he felt in the prospect of his daughter's happiness; and good
Mr. Palmer was ten times more attentive than ever to Madam Beaumont. In
his attention, however, there was something more ceremonious than
formerly; it was evident, for he was too honest to conceal his feelings,
that his opinion of her was changed, and that his attention was paid to
her rather as the widow of his old friend than on her own account.
Amelia, who particularly remarked this change, and who feared that it
must be severely painful to her mother, tried by every honest art of
kindness to reinstate her in his regard. Amelia, however, succeeded only
in raising herself in his esteem.

"Do not disturb yourself, my dear young lady," said he to her, one day,
"about your mother and me. Things are on their right footing between us,
and can never be on any other. She, you see, is quite satisfied."

Mrs. Beaumont, indeed, had not Amelia's quick sensibility with regard to
the real affections of her friends, though she was awake to every
external mark of attention. She was content, as Mr. Palmer before others
always treated her with marked deference, and gave her no reason to
apprehend any alteration in his testamentary dispositions. When
settlements were talked of for the intended marriages, Mr. Palmer seemed
to consider Mrs. Beaumont first in all their consultations, appealed for
her opinion, and had ever a most cautious eye upon her interests. This
she observed with satisfaction, and she was gratified by the
demonstrations of increased regard from her son and daughter, because
she thought it would facilitate her projects. She wished that her
marriage with Sir John Hunter should appear well to the world; and for
this reason she desired that it should _seem_ to be liked by all her
family--seem, for as to their real opinions she was indifferent.

Things were in this situation, when Mrs. Beaumont _caused herself to be
surprised_[6] one morning by Mr. Palmer, with a letter in her hand, deep
in reverie.

"Oh! my dear Mr. Palmer, is it you?" cried she, starting very naturally;
"I was really so lost in thought--"

Mr. Palmer hoped that he did not disturb her.--"Disturb me! no, my good
friend, you are the very person I wished to consult." Her eye glanced
again and again upon the letter she held in her hand, but Mr. Palmer
seemed provokingly destitute of curiosity; he however took a chair, and
his snuff-box, and with a polite but cold manner said he was much
honoured by her consulting him, but that of course his judgment could be
of little service to a lady of Mrs. Beaumont's understanding.

"Understanding! Ah!" said she, "there are cases where understanding is
of no use to women, but quite the contrary."

Mr. Palmer did not contradict the assertion, nor did he assent to it,
but waited, with a pinch of snuff arrested in its way, to have the cases
specified.

"In love affairs, for instance, we poor women," said Mrs. Beaumont,
looking down prettily; but Mr. Palmer afforded no assistance to her
bashful hesitation; she was under the necessity of finishing her
sentence, or of beginning another, upon a different construction. The
latter was most convenient, and she took a new and franker
tone:--"Here's a letter from poor Sir John Hunter."

Mr. Palmer still sat bending forward to listen with the most composed
deference, but pressed not in the slightest degree upon her confidence
by any question or look down towards the letter, or up towards the
lady's face, but straightforward looked he, till, quite provoked by his
dulness, Mrs. Beaumont took the matter up again, and, in a new tone,
said, "To be candid with you, my dear friend, this is a subject on which
I feel some awkwardness and reluctance in speaking to you--for of all
men breathing, I should in any important action of my life wish for your
approbation; and yet, on the present occasion, I fear, and so does Sir
John, that you will utterly disapprove of the match,"

She paused again, to be asked--What match? But compelled by her
auditor's invincible silence to make out her own case, she proceeded:
"You must know, my good sir, that Sir John Hunter is, it seems,
unconquerably bent upon a connexion with this family; for being refused
by the daughter, he has proposed for the mother!"

"Yes," said Mr. Palmer, bowing.

"I thought you would have been more surprised," said Mrs. Beaumont: "I
am glad the first sound of the thing does not, as I was afraid it would,
startle or revolt you."

"Startle me, it could not, madam," said Mr. Palmer, "for I have been
prepared for it some time past."

"Is it possible? And who could have mentioned it to you--Captain
Lightbody?"

"Captain Lightbody!" cried Mr. Palmer, with a sudden flash of
indignation: "believe me, madam, I never thought of speaking to
Captain Lightbody of your affairs, I am not in the habit of listening
to such people."

"But still, he might have spoken."

"No, madam, no; he would not have dared to bring me secret information."

"Honourable! quite honourable! But then, my dear sir, how came you to
know the thing?"

"I saw it. You know, madam, those who stand by always see more than
the players."

"And do you think my son and daughter, and Captain Walsingham,
know it too?"

"I fancy not; for they have not been standers by: they have been deeply
engaged themselves."

"That's well--for I wished to have your opinion and advice in the first
place, before I hinted it even to them, or any one else living. As I
feared the match would not meet your approbation, I told Sir John so,
and I gave him only a provisional consent."

"Like the provisional consent of that young Irish lady," said Mr.
Palmer, laughing, "who went through the marriage service with her lover,
adding at the end of each response, 'provided my father gives his
consent.'[7] But, madam, though I am old enough certainly to be your
father, yet even if I had the honour to be so in reality, as you are
arrived at years of discretion, you know you cannot need my consent."

"But seriously, my excellent friend," cried she, "I never could be happy
in marrying against your approbation. And let me, in my own vindication,
explain to you the whole of the affair."

Here Mr. Palmer, dreading one of her long explanations, which he knew he
should never comprehend, besought her not to invest him with the
unbecoming character of her judge. He represented that no vindication
was necessary, and that none could be of any use. She however persisted
in going through a sentimental defence of her conduct. She assured Mr.
Palmer, that she had determined never to marry again; that her
inviolable respect for her dear Colonel Beaumont's memory had induced
her to persist in this resolution for many years. That motives of
delicacy and generosity were what first prevailed with her to listen to
Sir John's suit; and that now she consoled and supported herself by the
proud reflection, that she was acting as her dear Colonel Beaumont
himself, could he know the circumstances and read her heart, would wish
and enjoin her to act.

Here a smile seemed to play upon Mr. Palmer's countenance; but the smile
had vanished in an instant, and was followed by a sudden gush of tears,
which were as suddenly wiped away; not, however, before they reminded
Mrs. Beaumont to spread her handkerchief before her face.

"Perhaps," resumed she, after a decent pause, "perhaps I am doing wrong
with the best intentions. Some people think that widows should never, on
any account, marry again, and perhaps Mr. Palmer is of this opinion?"

"No, by no means," said Mr. Palmer; "nor was Colonel Beaumont. Often and
often he said in his letters to me, that he wished his wife to marry
again after he was gone, and to be as happy after his death as she had
been during his life. I only hope that your choice may fulfil--may
justify--" Mr. Palmer stopped again, something in Shakspeare, about
preying on garbage, ran in his head; and, when Mrs. Beaumont went on to
some fresh topics of vindication, and earnestly pressed for his
_advice_, he broke up the conference by exclaiming, "'Fore Jupiter,
madam, we had better say nothing more about the matter; for, after all,
what can the wit of man or woman make of it, but that you choose to
marry Sir John Hunter, and that nobody in the world has a right to
object to it? There is certainly no occasion to use any management with
me; and your eloquence is only wasting itself, for I am not so
presumptuous, or so unreasonable, as to set myself up for the judge of
your actions. You do me honour by consulting me; but as you already know
my opinion of the gentleman, I must decline saying any thing further on
the subject."

Mrs. Beaumont was left in a painful state of doubt as to the main point,
whether Mr. Palmer would or would not alter his will. However, as she
was determined that the match should be accomplished, she took advantage
of the declaration Mr. Palmer made, that he had no right to object to
her following her own inclinations; and she told Sir John Hunter that
Mr. Palmer was perfectly satisfied; and that he had indeed relieved her
mind from some foolish scruples, by having assured her that it was
Colonel Beaumont's particular wish, often expressed in his confidential
letters, that his widow should marry again. So far, so good. Then the
affair was to be broken to her son and daughter. She begged Mr. Palmer
would undertake, for her sake, this delicate task; but he declined it
with a frank simplicity.

"Surely, madam," said he, "you can speak without difficulty to your own
son and daughter; and I have through life observed, that employing one
person to speak to another is almost always hurtful. I should not
presume, however, to regulate your conduct, madam, by my observations; I
should only give this as a reason for declining the office with which
you proposed to honour me."

The lady, compelled to speak for herself to her son and daughter, opened
the affair to them with as much delicacy and address as she had used
with Mr. Palmer. Their surprise was great; for they had not the most
remote idea of her intentions. The result of a tedious conversation of
three hours' length was perfectly satisfactory to her, though it would
have been to the highest degree painful and mortifying to a woman of
more feeling, or one less intent upon _an establishment_, a reversionary
title, and the Wigram estate. How low she sunk in the opinion of her
children and her friends was comparatively matter of small consequence
to Mrs. Beaumont, provided she could keep fair appearances with the
world. Whilst her son and daughter were so much ashamed of her intended
marriage, that they would not communicate their sentiments even to each
other,--they, with becoming duty, agreed that Mrs. Beaumont was very
good in speaking to them on the subject; as she had an uncontroulable
right to marry as she thought proper.

Mrs. Beaumont now wrote letters innumerable to her extensive circle of
connexions and acquaintance, announcing her approaching nuptials, and
inviting them to her wedding. It was settled by Mrs. Beaumont, that the
three marriages should _take place_ on the same day. This point she
laboured with her usual address, and at last brought the parties
concerned to give up their wishes for a private wedding, to gratify her
love for show and parade. Nothing now remained but to draw the
settlements. Mrs. Beaumont, who piqued herself upon her skill in
business, and who thought the sum of wisdom was to excel in cunning,
looked over her lawyer's drafts, and suggested many nice emendations,
which obtained for her from an attorney the praise of being a vastly
clever woman. Sir John was not, on his side, deficient in attention to
his own interests. Never was there a pair better matched in this
respect; never were two people going to be married more afraid that each
should _take the other in_. Sir John, however, pressed forward the
business with an eagerness that surprised every body. Mrs. Beaumont
again and again examined the settlements, to try to account prudentially
for her lover's impatience; but she _saw_ that _all_ was right there on
her part, and her self-love at last acquiesced in the belief that Sir
John's was now the ardour of a real lover. To the lady's entire
satisfaction, the liveries, the equipages, the diamonds, the
wedding-clothes were all bought, and the wedding-day approached. Mrs.
Beaumont's rich and fashionable connexions and acquaintance all promised
to grace her nuptials. Nothing was talked of but the preparations for
Mrs. Beaumont and Sir John Hunter's marriage; and so full of business
and bustle, and mysteries, and _sentimentalities_, and vanities was she,
that she almost forgot that any body was to be married but herself. The
marriages of her son and daughter seemed so completely to merge in the
importance and splendour of her own, that she merely recollected them as
things that were to be done on the same day, as subordinate parts that
were to be acted by inferior performers, whilst she should engross the
public interest and applause. In the mean time Miss Hunter was engaged,
to Mrs. Beaumont's satisfaction and her own, in superintending the
wedding-dresses, and in preparing the most elegant dress imaginable for
herself, as bride's-maid. Now and then she interrupted these occupations
with sighs and fits of pretty sentimental dejection; but Mrs. Beaumont
was well convinced that a new lover would soon make her forget her
disappointment. The nephew was written to, and invited to spend some
time with his aunt, immediately after her marriage; for she determined
that Miss Hunter should be her niece, since she could not be her
daughter. This secondary intrigue went on delightfully in our heroine's
imagination, without interfering with the main business of her own
marriage. The day, the long-expected day, that was to crown all her
hopes, at length arrived.




CHAPTER XVI.

    "On peut étre plus fin qu'un autre, mais pas plus fin que
     tous les autres."--ROCHEFOUCAULT.


The following paragraph[8] extracted from the newspapers of the day,
will, doubtless, be acceptable to a large class of readers.


"FASHIONABLE HYMENEALS.

"Yesterday, Sir John Hunter, of Hunter Hall, Devonshire, Bart., led to
the hymeneal altar the accomplished Mrs. Beaumont, relict of the late
Colonel Beaumont, of Beaumont Park. On the same day her son and daughter
were also married--Mr. Beaumont to Miss Walsingham, daughter of E.
Walsingham, Esq., of Walsingham House;--and Miss Beaumont to Captain
Walsingham of the navy, a near relation of Edward Walsingham, Esq., of
Walsingham House.

"These nuptials in the Beaumont family were graced by an overflowing
concourse of beauty, nobility, and fashion, comprehending all the
relations, connexions, intimate friends, and particular acquaintances of
the interesting and popular Mrs. Beaumont. The cavalcade reached from
the principal front of the house to the south gate of the park, a
distance of three-quarters of a mile. Mrs. Beaumont and her daughter,
two lovely brides, in a superb landau, were attired in the most elegant,
becoming, fashionable, and costly manner, their dress consisting of the
finest lace, over white satin. Mrs. Beaumont's was point lace, and she
was also distinguished by a long veil of the most exquisite texture,
which added a tempered grace to beauty in its meridian. In the same
landau appeared the charming brides'-maids, all in white, of course.
Among these, Miss Hunter attracted particular attention, by the felicity
of her costume. Her drapery, which was of delicate lace, being happily
adapted to show to the greatest advantage the captivating contour of her
elegant figure, and ornamented with white silk fringe and tassels,
marked every airy motion of her sylph-like form.

"The third bride on this auspicious day was Miss Walsingham, who, with
her father and bride's-maids, followed in Mr. Walsingham's carriage.
Miss Walsingham, we are informed, was dressed with simple elegance, in
the finest produce of the Indian loom; but, as she was in a covered
carriage, we could not obtain a full view of her attire. Next to the
brides' equipages, followed the bridegrooms'. And chief of these Sir
John Hunter sported a splendid barouche. He was dressed in the height of
the ton, and his horses deserved particular admiration. After Sir John's
barouche came the equipage belonging to Mr. Beaumont, highly finished
but plain: in this were the two bridegrooms, Mr. Beaumont and Captain
Walsingham, accompanied by Mr. Palmer (the great West-Indian Palmer),
who, we understand, is the intimate friend and relative of the Beaumont
family. Then followed, as our correspondent counted, above a hundred
carriages of distinction, with a prodigious cavalcade of gentry. The
whole was closed by a long line of attendants and domestics. The moment
the park gates were opened, groups of young girls of the Beaumont
tenantry, habited in white, with knots of ribands, and emblematical
devices suited to the occasion, and with baskets of flowers in their
hands, began to strew vegetable incense before the brides, especially
before Mrs. Beaumont's landau.

   'And whilst the priests accuse the bride's delay,
    Roses and myrtles still obstruct her way.'

"The crowd, which assembled as they proceeded along the road to the
church, and in the churchyard, was such that, however gratefully it
evinced the popularity of the amiable parties, it became at last
evidently distressing to the principal object of their homage--Mrs.
Beaumont, who could not have stood the gaze of public admiration but for
the friendly and becoming, yet tantalizing refuge of her veil.
Constables were obliged to interfere to clear the path to the church
door, and the amiable almost fainting lady was from the arms of her
anxious and alarmed bride's-maids lifted out of her landau, and
supported into the church and up the aisle with all the marked gallantry
of true tenderness, by her happy bridegroom, Sir John Hunter.

"After the ceremony was over, Sir John and Lady Hunter, and the two
other new-married couples, returned to Beaumont Park with the _cortège_
of their friends, where the company partook of an elegant collation.
The artless graces and fascinating affability of Lady Hunter won all
hearts; and the wit, festive spirits, and politeness of Sir John,
attracted universal admiration--not to say envy, of all present.
Immediately after the collation, the happy couple set off for their
seat at Hunter Hall.

"Mr. Beaumont, and the new Mrs. Beaumont, remained at Beaumont Park.
Captain and Mrs. Walsingham repaired to Mr. Walsingham's.

"It is a singular circumstance, communicated to us by the indisputable
authority of one of the bride's-maids, that Miss Walsingham, as it was
discovered after the ceremony, was actually married with her gown the
wrong side outwards. Whether this be an omen announcing good fortune to
_all_ the parties concerned, we cannot take upon us to determine; but
this much we may safely assert, that never distinguished female in the
annals of fashion was married under more favourable auspices than the
amiable Lady Hunter. And it is universally acknowledged, that no lady is
better suited to be, as in the natural course of things she will soon
be, Countess of Puckeridge, and at the head of the great Wigram estate."

       *       *       *       *       *

So ends our newspaper writer.

Probably this paragraph was sent to the press before the _fashionable
hymeneals_ had actually taken place. This may in some measure account
for the extraordinary omissions in the narrative. After the three
marriages had been solemnized, just when the ceremony was over, and Lady
Hunter was preparing to receive the congratulations of the brilliant
congregation, she observed that the clergyman, instead of shutting his
book, kept it open before him, and looked round as if expecting another
bride. Mrs. Beaumont, we should say Lady Hunter, curtsied to him,
smiled, and made a sign that the ceremony was finished; but at this
instant, to her astonishment, she saw her bride's-maid, Miss Hunter,
quit her place, and beheld Captain Lightbody seize her hand, and lead
her up towards the altar. Lady Hunter broke through the crowd that was
congratulating her, and reaching Miss Hunter, drew her hack forcibly,
and whispered, "Are you mad, Miss Hunter? Is this a place, a time for
frolic? What are you about?"

"Going to be married, ma'am! following your ladyship's good example,"
answered her bride's-maid, flippantly,--at the same time springing
forward from the detaining grasp, regardless even of the rent she made
in her lace dress, she hurried, or was hurried on by Captain Lightbody.

"Captain Lightbody!" cried Lady Hunter; but, answering only with a
triumphant bow, he passed on with his bride.

"Heavens! will nobody stop him?" cried Lady Hunter, over-taking them
again as they reached the steps. She addressed herself to the clergyman.
"Sir, she is a ward in chancery, and under my protection: they have no
licence; their banns have not been published: you cannot, dare not,
surely, marry them?"

"Pardon me, Lady Hunter," said Captain Lightbody; "I have shown Mr.
Twigg my licence."

"I have seen it--I thought it was with your ladyship's knowledge,"
replied Mr. Twigg. "I--I cannot object--it would be at my own peril. If
there is any lawful impediment, your ladyship will make it at the
proper response."

A friend of Captain Lightbody's appeared in readiness to give the young
lady away.

"The ceremony must go on, madam," said the clergyman.

"At your peril, sir!" said Lady Hunter. "This young lady, is a ward of
chancery, and not of age!"

"I am of age--of age last month," cried the bride.

"Not till next year."

"Of age last month. I have the parish register," said Captain Lightbody.
"Go on, sir, if you please."

"Good Heavens! Miss Hunter, can you bear," said Lady Hunter, "to be the
object of this indecent altercation? Retire with me, and only let me
speak to you, I conjure you!"

No--the young lady stood her ground, resolute to be a bride.

"If there is any lawful impediment, your ladyship will please to make it
at the proper response," said the chaplain. "I am under a necessity of
proceeding."

The ceremony went on.

Lady Hunter, in high indignation, retired immediately to the vestry-room
with her bridegroom. "At least," cried she, throwing herself upon a
seat, "it shall never be said that I countenanced, by my presence, such
a scandalous marriage! Oh! Sir John Hunter, why did you not interfere to
save your own sister?"

"Save her! Egad, she did not choose to be saved. Who can save a woman
that does not choose it? What could I do? Is not she your ladyship's
pupil?--he! he! he! But I'll fight the rascal directly, if that will
give you any satisfaction."

"And he shall have a lawsuit too for her fortune!" said Lady Hunter;
"for she is not of age. I have a memorandum in an old pocket book. Oh!
who would have thought such a girl could have duped me so!"

Lady Hunter's exclamations were interrupted by the entrance of her son
and daughter, who came to offer what consolation they could. The
brilliant congregation poured in a few minutes afterwards, with their
mingled congratulations and condolence, eager, above all things, to
satisfy their curiosity.

Captain Lightbody, with invincible assurance, came up just as Lady
Hunter was getting into her carriage, and besought permission to present
his bride to her. But Lady Hunter, turning her back upon him without
reply, said to her son, "If Captain Lightbody is going to Beaumont Park,
I am not going there."

Mrs. Lightbody, who was now emancipated from all control, and from all
sense of propriety, called out from her _own_ carriage, in which she was
seated, "That, thank Heaven! she had a house of her own to go to, and
that nothing was farther from her thoughts than to interrupt the
festivities of Lady Hunter's more mature nuptials."

Delighted with having made this tart answer, Mrs. Lightbody ordered her
husband to order her coachman to drive off as fast as possible. The
captain, by her particular desire, had taken a house for her at
Brighton, the gayest place she could think of. We leave this amiable
bride rejoicing in the glory of having duped a lady of Mrs. Beaumont's
penetration; and her bridegroom rejoicing still more in the parish
register, by the help of which he hoped to obtain full enjoyment of what
he knew to be his bride's most valuable possession--her portion, and to
defy Lady Hunter's threatened lawsuit.

In the mean time, Lady Hunter, in her point lace and beautiful veil,
seated beside her baronet, in his new barouche, endeavoured to forget
this interruption of her triumph. She considered, that though Miss
Hunter's fortune was lost to her family, yet the title of countess, and
the Wigram estate, were _secure_: this was solid consolation; and
recovering her features from their unprecedented discomposure, she
forced smiles and looks suitable to the occasion, as she bowed to
congratulating passengers.

Arrived at Beaumont Park, she prepared, without appetite, to partake of
the elegant collation, and to do the honours with her accustomed grace:
she took care to seat Mr. Palmer beside her, that she might show the
world on what good terms they were together. She was pleased to see,
that though two younger brides sat near her, she engaged by far the
largest share of public admiration. They were so fully content and
engrossed by their own feelings, that they did not perceive that they
were what is called _thrown into the shade_. All the pride, pomp, and
circumstance of these glorious hymeneals appeared to them but as a
dream, or as a scene that was acting before them, in which they were not
called to take a part. Towards the end of the collation, one of the
guests, my Lord Rider, a nobleman who always gave himself the air of
being in a prodigious hurry, declared that he was under the necessity of
going off, for he expected a person to meet him at his house in town, on
some particular business, at an appointed day. His lordship's travelling
companion, who was unwilling to quit so prematurely the present scene of
festivity, observed that the man of business had engaged to write to his
lordship, and that he should at least wait till the post should come in.
Lady Hunter politely sent to inquire if any letters had arrived for his
lordship; and, in consequence of his impatience, all the letters for the
family were brought: Lady Hunter distributed them. There was one for
Captain Walsingham, with a Spanish motto on the seal: Lady Hunter, as
she gave it to him, whispered to Amelia, "Don't be jealous, my dear, but
that, I can tell you, is a letter from his Spanish incognita." Amelia
smiled with a look of the most perfect confidence and love. Captain
Walsingham immediately opened the letter, and, looking at the signature,
said, "It is not from my Spanish incognita,--it is from her aunt; I will
read it by and by."

"A fine evasion, indeed!" exclaimed Lady Hunter: "look how coolly he
puts it into his pocket! Ah! my credulous Amelia, do you allow him to
begin in this manner?" pursued she, in a tone of raillery, yet as if she
really suspected something wrong in the letter; "and have you no
_curiosity_, Mrs. Walsingham?"

Amelia declared that she had none; that she was not one of those who
think that jealousy is the best proof of love.

"Right, right," said Mr. Palmer; "confidence is the best proof of love;
and yours, I'll venture to say, is, and ever will be, well placed."

Captain Walsingham, with a grateful smile, took his letter again out of
his pocket, and immediately began to read it in a low voice to Amelia,
Lady Hunter, and Mr. Palmer.

       *       *       *       *       *

"DEAR SIR,

"Though almost a stranger to you, I should think myself wanting in
gratitude if I did not, after all the services you have done my family,
write to thank you in my niece's name and in my own: and much I regret
that my words will so ill convey to you the sentiments of our hearts. I
am an old woman, not well accustomed to use my pen in the way of
letter-writing; but can say truly, that whilst I have life I shall be
grateful to you. You have restored me to happiness by restoring to me my
long-lost niece. It will, I am sure, give you satisfaction to hear, that
my niece--"

       *       *       *       *       *

Captain Walsingham stopped short, with a look which confirmed Lady
Hunter in all her suspicions,--which made Mr. Palmer take out his
snuff-box,--which startled even Mr. Beaumont; but which did not raise
in the mind of Amelia the slightest feeling of doubt or suspicion. She
smiled, and looked round at her alarmed friends with a manner which
seemed to say, "Can you suppose it possible that there can be any
thing wrong?"

"Pray go on, Captain Walsingham," said Lady Hunter, "unless--unless you
have particular, very particular reasons."

"I have particular, very particular reasons," said Captain Walsingham;
"and since," turning to Amelia, "this confiding lady does not insist
upon my going on--"

"Oh!" said Lady Hunter, gaily, snatching the letter, "I am not such a
credulous, or, as you call it, confiding lady."

"I beg of your ladyship not to read it," said Captain Walsingham, in an
earnest tone.

"You beg of me not to read it, and with that alarmed look--Oh!
positively, I must, and will read it."

"Not at present, then, I entreat you!"

"This very instant," cried Lady Hunter, affecting all the imperious
vivacity of a young bride, under favour of which she determined to
satisfy her malicious curiosity.

"Pray, Lady Hunter, do not read it," repeated Captain Walsingham, laying
his hand over the letter. "It is for your own sake," added he, in a low
and earnest voice, "it is for your own sake, not mine, that I beg of you
to forbear."

Lady Hunter, imagining this to be only a subterfuge, drew the letter
from beneath Captain Walsingham's hand, exclaiming, "For _my sake!_ Oh,
Captain, that is a charming _ruse de guerre_, but do not hope that it
shall succeed!"

"Oh! mother, believe him, believe him," cried Amelia: "I am sure he
tells you the truth, and he speaks for your sake, not for his own."

Amelia interceded in vain.

Mr. Palmer patted Amelia's shoulder fondly, saying, "You are a dear good
creature."

"A dear credulous creature!" exclaimed Lady Hunter. She had now
undisturbed possession of the letter.

Captain Walsingham stood by with a face of great concern; in which
Amelia and Mr. Beaumont, without knowing the cause, seemed to
sympathize.

The contest had early attracted the attention of all within hearing or
view of her ladyship, and by this time had been pointed out and
accounted for in whispers, even to the most remote parts of the room; so
that the eyes of almost every individual in the assembly were now fixed
upon Lady Hunter. She had scarcely glanced her eye upon the letter, when
she turned pale as death, and exclaimed, "He knew it! he knew it!" Then,
recollecting herself, she made a struggle to conceal her dismay--the
forced smile quivered on her lip,--she fell back in a swoon, and was
carried out of the room by her son and daughter. Sir John Hunter was at
another table, eating eel-pie, and was the last person present who was
made to understand what had happened.

"It is the damned heat of the room, I suppose," said he, "that made her
faint;" and swallowing the last morsel on his plate, and settling his
collar, he came up to Captain Walsingham. "What's this I hear?--that
Lady Hunter has fainted? I hope they have carried her into the air. But
where's the letter they say affected her so?"

"In my pocket," said Captain Walsingham, coolly.

"Any thing new in it?" said Sir John, with a sulky, fashionable
indifference.

"Nothing new to you, probably, Sir John," said Captain Walsingham,
walking away from him in disgust.

"I suppose it was the heat overcame Lady Hunter," continued Sir John,
speaking to those who stood near him. "Is any body gone to see how she
is now? I wonder if they'll let me in to see her."

With assumed carelessness, but with real embarrassment, the bridegroom
went to inquire for his bride.

Good Mr. Palmer went soon afterwards, and knocked softly at the lady's
door. "Is poor Lady Hunter any better?"

"Oh! yes; quite well again now," cried Lady Hunter, raising herself from
the bed, on which she had been laid; but Mr. Palmer thought, as he saw
her through the half-opened door, she still looked a deplorable
spectacle, in all her wedding finery. "Quite well again, now: it was
nothing in the world but the heat. Amelia, my love, go back to the
company, and say so, lest my friends should be uneasy. Thank you, kind
Mr. Palmer, for coming to see me: excuse my not being able to let you in
now, for I must change my dress. Sir John sends me word his barouche
will be at the door in ten minutes, and I have to hurry on my travelling
dress. Excuse me."

Mr. Palmer retired, seeing clearly that she wished to avoid any
explanation of the real cause of her fainting. In the gallery, leading
from her room, he met Captain Walsingham, who was coming to inquire for
Lady Hunter.

"Poor woman! do you know the cause of her fainting?" said Captain
Walsingham.

"No; and I believe she does not wish me to know it: therefore don't tell
it me," said Mr. Palmer.

"It is a secret that must be in the public papers in a few days," said
Captain Walsingham. "This lady that I brought over from Lisbon--"

"Well, what can she have to say to Mrs. Beaumont?"

"Nothing to Mrs. Beaumont, but a great deal to Lady Hunter. You may
remember that I mentioned to you that some of her relations had
contrived to have her kept in that convent abroad, and had spread a
report of her death, that the heir-at-law might defraud her of her
property, and get and keep possession of a large estate, which fell to
him in case of her death. Of further particulars, or even of the name of
this estate, I knew nothing till this morning, when that letter from the
aunt--here it is--tells me, that the estate to which her niece was
entitled is the great Wigram estate, and that old Wigram was the
rascally heir-at-law. The lawyer I recommended to the lady was both an
honest and a clever fellow; and he represented so forcibly to old Wigram
the consequences of his having his fraud brought to light in a court of
equity, that he made him soon agree to a private reference. The affair
has been compromised, and settled thus:--The possession of the estate is
given up, just as it stands, to the rightful owner; and she forbears to
call the old sinner to an account for past arrears. She will let him
make it out to the world and to his own conscience, if he can, that he
bona-fide believed her to be dead."

"So," said Mr. Palmer, "so end Madam Beaumont's hopes of being at the
head of the Wigram estate, and so end her hopes of being a
countess!--And actually married to this ruined spendthrift!--Now we see
the reason he pressed on the match so, and urged her to marry him before
the affair should become public. She is duped, and for life!--poor Madam
Beaumont!"

At this moment Lady Hunter came out of her room, after having changed
her dress, and repaired her smiles.

"Ready for my journey now," said she, passing by Mr. Palmer quickly. "I
must show myself to the world of friends below, and bid them adieu. One
word, Captain Walsingham: there's no occasion, you know," whispered she,
"to say any thing _below_ of that letter; I really don't believe it."

Too proud to let her mortification be known, Lady Hunter constrained her
feelings with all her might. She appeared once more with a pleased
countenance in the festive assembly. She received their compliments and
congratulations, and invited them, with all the earnestness of
friendship, to favour Sir John and her, as soon as possible, with their
company at Hunter Hall. The company were now fast departing; carriages
came to the door in rapid succession. Lady Hunter went through with
admirable grace and variety the sentimental ceremony of taking leave;
and when her splendid barouche was at the door, and when she was to bid
adieu to her own family, still she acted her part inimitably. In all the
becoming mixed smiles and tears of a bride, she was seen embracing by
turns her beloved daughter and son, and daughter-in-law and son-in-law,
over and over again, in the hall, on the steps; to the last moment
contriving to be torn delightfully from the bosom of her family by her
impatient bridegroom. Seated beside him in his barouche, she kissed her
hand to Mr. Palmer,--smiled: all her family, who stood on the steps,
bowed; and Sir John drove away with his prize.

"He's a swindler!" cried Mr. Palmer, "and she is--"

"Amelia's mother," interrupted Captain Walsingham.

"Right," said Mr. Palmer; "but Amelia had a father too,--my excellent
friend, Colonel Beaumont,--whom she and her brother resemble in all that
is open-hearted and honourable. Well, well! I make no reflections; I
hate moral reflections. Every body can think and feel for themselves, I
presume. I only say,--Thank Heaven, we've done with _manoeuvring!_"






ALMERIA.


John Hodgkinson was an eminent and wealthy Yorkshire grazier, who had
no children of his own, but who had brought up in his family Almeria
Turnbull, the daughter of his wife by a former husband, a Mr. Turnbull.
Mr. Turnbull had also been a grazier, but had not been successful in
the management of his affairs, therefore he could not leave his
daughter any fortune; and at the death of her mother, she became
entirely dependent on her father-in-law. Old Hodgkinson was a whimsical
man, who, except in eating and drinking, had no inclination to spend
any part of the fortune he had made; but, enjoying the consequence
which money confers, endeavoured to increase this importance by keeping
all his acquaintance in uncertainty, as to what he called his
"_testamentary dispositions_." Sometimes he hinted that his
step-daughter should be a match for the proudest riband in England;
sometimes he declared, that he did not know of what use money could be
to a woman, except to make her a prey to a fortune-hunter, and that his
girl should not be left in a way to be duped.

As to his daughter's education, that was an affair in which he did not
interfere: all that he wished was, that the girl should be kept humble,
and have no fine notions put into her head, nor any communication with
fine people. He kept company only with men of his own sort; and as he
had no taste for any kind of literature, Almeria's time would have hung
rather heavy upon her hands, had she been totally confined to his
society: but, fortunately for her, there lived in the neighbourhood an
elderly gentleman and his daughter, whom her father allowed her to
visit. Mr. Elmour was a country gentleman of a moderate fortune, a
respectable family, and of a most amiable character: between his
daughter Ellen and Miss Turnbull there had subsisted an intimacy from
their earliest childhood. The professions of this friendship had
hitherto been much the warmest on the part of Almeria; the proofs were,
perhaps, the strongest on the side of Ellen. Miss Elmour, as the
daughter of a gentleman, whose family had been long settled in the
country, was rather _more considered_ than Miss Turnbull, who was the
daughter of a grazier, whose money had but lately raised him to the
level of gentility. At Mr. Elmour's house Almeria had an opportunity of
being in much better company than she could ever have seen at her
father's; better company in every respect, but chiefly in the popular,
or more properly in the aristocratic sense of the term: her visits had
consequently been long and frequent; she appeared to have a peculiar
taste for refinement in manners and conversation, and often deplored the
want she felt of these at home. She expressed a strong desire to acquire
information, and to improve herself in every elegant accomplishment; and
Ellen, who was of a character far superior to the little meanness of
female competition and jealousy, shared with her friend all the
advantages of her situation. Old Hodgkinson never had any books in his
house, but such as Almeria borrowed from Mr. Elmour's library. Ellen
constantly sent Miss Turnbull all the new publications which her father
got from town--she copied for her friend the new music with which she
was supplied, showed her every new drawing or print, gave her the
advantage of the lessons she received from an excellent drawing master,
and let her into those little mysteries of art which masters sometimes
sell so dear.

This was done with perfect readiness and simplicity: Ellen never seemed
conscious that she was bestowing a favour; but appeared to consider what
she did as matters of course, or as the necessary consequences of
friendship. She treated her friend at all times, and in all companies,
with that uniform attention and equality of manner, which most people
profess, and which so few have strength of mind to practise. Almeria
expressed, and probably at this time felt, unbounded gratitude and
affection for Ellen; indeed her expressions were sometimes so vehement,
that Miss Elmour rallied her for being romantic. Almeria one day
declared, that she should wish to pass all the days of her life at
Elmour Grove, without seeing any other human creatures but her friend
and her friend's father.

"Your imagination deceives you, my dear Almeria," said Ellen, smiling.

"It is my heart, not my imagination, that speaks," said Almeria, laying
her hand upon her heart, or upon the place where she fancied her heart
ought to be.

"Your understanding will, perhaps, speak a different language by and by,
and your heart will not be the worse for it, my good young lady," said
old Mr. Elmour.

Almeria persisted even to tears; and it was not till young Mr. Elmour
came home, and till she had spent a few weeks in his company, that she
began to admit that three was the number sacred to friendship. Frederick
Elmour was a man of honour, talents, spirit, and of a decided character:
he was extremely fond of his sister, and was prepossessed in favour of
every thing and person that she loved. Her intimate friend was
consequently interesting to him; and it must be supposed, that Miss
Elmour's praises of Almeria were managed more judiciously than eulogiums
usually are, by the effect which they produced. Frederick became
attached to Miss Turnbull, though he perceived that, in firmness and
dignity of character, she was not equal to his sister. This inferiority
did not injure her in his opinion, because it was always acknowledged
with so much candour and humility by Almeria, who seemed to look up to
her friend as to a being of a superior order. This freedom from envy,
and this generous enthusiasm, first touched young Mr. Elmour's heart.
Next to possessing his sister's virtues and talents, loving them was, in
his opinion, the greatest merit. He thought that a person capable of
appreciating and admiring Ellen's character, must be desirous of
imitating her; and the similarity of their tastes, opinions, and
principles, seemed to him the most secure pledge for his future
happiness. Miss Turnbull's fortune, whatever it might be, was an object
of no great importance to him: his father, though not opulent, was in
easy circumstances, and was "willing," he said, "to deprive himself of
some luxuries for the sake of his son, whom he would not controul in the
choice of a wife--a choice on which he knew, from his own experience,
that the happiness of life so much depends."

The benevolent old gentleman had peculiar merit in this conduct; because
if he had a weakness in the world, it was a prejudice in favour of what
is called _good family and birth_: it had long been the secret wish of
his heart that his only son might marry into a family as ancient as his
own. Frederick was fully sensible of the sacrifice that his father made
of his pride: but that which he was willing to make of what he called
his luxuries, his son's affection and sense of justice forbade him to
accept. He could not rob his father of any of the comforts of his
declining years, whilst in the full vigour of youth it was in his power,
by his own exertions, to obtain an independent maintenance. He had been
bred to the bar; no expense had been spared by his father in his
education, no efforts had been omitted by himself. He was now ready to
enter on the duties of his profession with ardour, but without
presumption.

Our heroine must be pardoned by the most prudent, and admired by the
most romantic, for being desperately in love with a youth of such a
character and such expectations. Whilst the young lady's passion was
growing every hour more lively, her old father was growing every hour
more lethargic. He had a superstitious dread of making a will, as if it
were a preparation for death, which would hasten the fatal moment.
Hodgkinson's friends tried to conquer this prejudice: but it was in vain
to reason with a man who had never reasoned during the whole of his life
about any thing except bullocks. Old Hodgkinson died--that was a matter
of no great consequence to any body--but he died without a will, and
that was a matter of some importance to his daughter. After searching in
every probable and improbable place, there was, at length, found in his
own handwriting a memorandum, the beginning of which was in the first
leaf of his cookery-book, and the end in the last leaf of his
prayer-book. There was some difficulty in deciphering the memorandum,
for it was cross-barred with miscellaneous observations in inks of
various colours--red, blue, and green. As it is dangerous to garble law
papers, we shall lay the document before the public just as it appeared.

    _Copy from first leaf of the Cookery-look_.

I John Hodgkinson of Vetch-field, East Riding of Yorkshire, Grazier and
so forth, not choosing to style myself Gentleman, though entitled so to
do, do hereby certify, that when I can find an honest attorney, _it is
my_ intention to make my will and to leave--

   