forest on each side the clearing of the post and
even extended to the marsh at the south.

Half-naked braves stalked in countless numbers among the tepees that
went rapidly up, tall fellows, mighty of build and fearless of carriage
and of eagle eye, aloof, suspicious, watching the fort, guarding the
rich piles of peltry and exchanging a word with none.

These were the great Nakonkirhirinons from that limitless region of the
Pays Ten d'en Haut.

If McElroy's heart had not been so full of his own trouble he would
have exulted mightily in their coming, for did it not prove one failure
for that reckless Nor'wester on the Saskatchewan? They had come, past
all his blandishments of trade, to Fort de Seviere, and their coming
spelled a number of furs this season far in advance of any other for
that small post. If he wondered at first how they had held out against
De Courtenay it was all made plain when among the strangers he espied
many Assiniboines and saw in the great canoe of the chief Negansahima,
old Quamenoka, who had boasted of the coming of this tribe to De
Seviere as his work.

He had spoken truly and had evidently made his word good by meeting the
approaching columns and returning with them.

To him alone was due the failure of De Courtenay, McElroy felt at once,
and determined in his mind on that present which he had promised for
this zeal.

With the coming of the strangers Fort de Seviere was put under military
rule. The half-moon to the right of thegate, with its small cannon,
received a quota of menwho strayed carelessly all day within reach of
the low rampart; a guard lounged in the great gate, ready at a moment's
notice to clang it shut, and seemingly matter-of-course precautions
were taken throughout, for these Indians were as uncertain as the
flickering north lights crackling in a frosty sky.

There was a scene not to be likened to any other outside the region of
the Hudson Bay country, where strange relations existed between white
trader and savage, when Edmonton Ridgar met the canoe of the chief at
the landing.

Savage delight overspread the eagle features of Negansahima as he
beheld the white man.

Towering mightily in the prow of his canoe, the sweeping head-dress of
feathers crowning him with a certain majesty, he fixed his keen glance
on Ridgar and came gliding toward him across the rippled water.

As the canoe cut cleanly up and stopped just short of scraping on the
stones at the edge, obeying the paddles like a thoroughbred the bit,
the chief trader of De Seviere stepped forward and held out his arms.

"Who art thou?" he called.

Deep and guttural as thunder from the broad chest, naked under the
lines of elk teeth, came the reply,

"Thy father"

"And master of my goods. The heart of thy son melts as the snow in
spring. Wiskendjac has sent thee."

McElroy, standing near, saw the face of his friend illumined with a
real affection as the savage landed and, contrary to the custom of the
Indians in the lower country, embraced with every sign of joy the lean
white man whose skin was nearly as dark as his own and whose greying
temples bespoke almost a as many years as the chief's black locks could
boast.

In the eyes of both, as they regarded each other, were memories known
to no one else. McElroy wondered what they were and what that year, of
which Ridgar had spoken only once, had held.

The trader spoke their tongue as easily as he spoke any other that came
to the post, naturally and with quiet fluency.

So deep was the apparent pleasure of the meeting that, when the
interpreting was done and the ceremonies over, Ridgar went with the
Indian among the tepees and no more did McElroy see him until he came
to the factory at dusk.

"Mother of Heaven!" he ejaculated, flinging himself down at the table
in the living-room where Rette's strong coffee tempted the nostril;
"such furs! Beaver in countless packs, all the fat winter skins, no
Bordeaux, no Mittain. Fox, also of the best only,--black fox, fine and
shining, fox of those far-north regions where they hunt beyond the sun,
white as the snow it runs on, and Mon Dieu, McElroy! Seven silvers as I
hope for salvation! Verily are they a prize beyond price, these Indians
that have come in to us, and I fancy that young Nor'wester is swearing
at his luck in losing them. Old Quamenoka struts as if their wealth
belonged to his meek Assiniboines.... But the furs! Ermine and nekik
and sakwasew and wapistan, all the little fellows that, taken from
those virgin north lands, are worth their weight in gold! Nowhere have
I seen a common pelt. They are connoisseurs, these wild
Nakonkirhirinons, and they carry a king's ransom in their long canoes.
White bear and brown arctic wolf and everywhere the best of its kind!
To-morrow's trade will be worth while--but keep the guns in evidence
and quiet above all things."

"Ah!" said McElroy, "what is there to fear, think you? Is not the chief
bound to you by all ties of ceremony and regard?"

"Most assuredly," returned Ridgar quietly, "but those young braves are
strung like a singing wire and swift as a girl to take suspicious
fright; and there are somewhere near five hundred of them, as near as I
can make out from the numbers seething among the lodges. They are in a
strange country and watching every leaf and shadow."

Thus the sun went down on De Seviere, with the eager maids and women
passing and repassing near the gate to peep out at the rustling throng,
at the tepees with their fine skin coverings painted with all the
wonders of battle and the chase, at the comely squaws and maidens, the
chubby brown children, the dogs snarling arid savage, for they had full
complement of the grey northern huskies.

To a woman they peeped at the gate from all the cabins of the post,
save only that one who had been most eager before when the Indians
came, Maren Le Moyne, sitting in idle apathy on her sister's doorstep.

"Ma'amselle," said Marc Dupre, stopping hesitant before her, "have you
seen the Nakonkirhirinons?"

"Nay," she said listlessly, "I care not, M'sieu."

And the youth went gloomily away.

"Something there is which preys on her like the blood-sucker on the
rabbit's throat. But what? Holy Mother, what?"

His handsome eyes were troubled.

By dawn on the following day the trading had begun. Up the main way
passed a line of braves, each laden with his winter's catch of furs, to
barter at the trading-room, haggle with the clerks by sign and
pantomime, and pass down again with gun and hatchet and axe, kettle and
bright blanket, beads, and, most eagerly sought of all, yards of
crimson cloth.

There was babble of chatter among the squaws, shrill laughter, and
comparison of purchases.

In the trading-room sat the chief with his headmen and old Quamenoka of
the Assiniboines, smoking gravely many pipes and listening to the
trading. Like some wild eagle of the peaks brought down to earth he
seemed, ever alert and watchful behind his stately silence.

For two days the trading progressed finely, and McElroy had so far laid
aside his doubts as to take delight in the quality of the rare furs.

Never before had such pelts stacked themselves in the sorting-room.

It was a sight for eyes tired by many springs of common trade.

Then, like a bomb in a peaceful city, came a running word of
excitement.

The Nor'wester from the Saskatchewan was among the Nakonkirhirinons!
Was at the very gates of De Seviere! When Pierre Garcon brought the
news, McElroy flushed darkly to his fair hair and went on with his
work.

This was unbearable insolence.

"An', M'sieu," pursued Pierre, "not only the man from Montreal, but,
like the treacherous dog he is, among the Nor'westers is that vagabond
Bois DesCaut."

"Turncoat?" said the factor.

"Aye."

True enough. When McElroy, after trading hours, strolled down to the
gate between the bastions, whom should he behold but the hulking figure
of his erstwhile trapper, sulky of appearance, shifty eyes flitting
everywhere but toward his old factor. And farther down the bank, among
a group of warriors, a brown baby on his shoulder and his long curls
shining in the sunset, was that incomparable adventurer, Alfred de
Courtenay.

Apparently he had not come for barter, nor for anything save the love
of the unusual, the thirst for adventure that had brought him primarily
to the wilderness.

"A fine fit of apoplexy would he have, that peppery old uncle at
Montreal, Elsworth McTavish, could he see his precious nephew following
his whims up and down the land, leaving his post in the hands of his
chief trader," thought McElroy, as he looked at the scene before him.

While he stood so, there was a rustle of women behind him and voices
that bespoke more eager eyes for the Indians, and he glanced over his
shoulder.

Micene Bordoux and Mora LeClede approached, and between them walked
Maren Le Moyne. McElroy's heart pounded hard with a quick excitement as
he saw the listless droop of the face under the black braids and
stopped with a prescience of disaster. His glance went swiftly to the
long-haired gallant in the braided coat. Surely were the elements
brought together.

It seemed as if Fate was weaving these little threads of destiny, for
no sooner did Maren Le Moyne step through the gate among the lodges
than her very nearness drew round upon his heel De Courtenay.

His eyes lighted upon her and the sparkling smile lit up his features.
With inimitable grace he swung the child from his shoulder, tossed it
to a timid squaw watching like a hawk, and, shaking back his curls,
came forward.

"Ah, Ma'amselle!" he said, bending before her with his courtly manner,
"you see, as I said in the early spring,--I have come back to Fort de
Seviere."

"So I see, M'sieu," smiled Maren, with a touch of whimsical amusement
at the memory of that morning, and his venturesome spirit. "Have you by
chance brought me a red flower?"

"Why else should I come?" he returned, and, with a flourish, brought
from his bosom a second birchbark box which he held out to the girl.

Over her face there spread a crimson flood at this swift, literal
proving of a secret pact and she stood hesitating, at loss.

The stretch of beach was alive with spectators. Near the wall a group
of girls hugged together, with Francette Moline in the centre; down by
the canoes Pierre Garcon and Marc Dupre stood, the dark eyes of the
latter watching every move, while at the door of the chief's lodge,
directly before the fort and between it and the river, Edmonton Ridgar
talked in low tones with Negansahima. Indeed, like father and son
seemed this strangely assorted pair. Maren remembered afterward how
near together they had stood, the wild savage in his elk teeth and
scant buckskin garments, an indiscreet band of yellow paint showing a
corner above his blanket, and the dark, wiry trader with the grey eyes.
Scattered, here and there among the braves were many Bois-Brules, lean
Runners of the Burnt Woods, belonging she knew to the North-west
Company. Also in that moment she saw the frowning face and ugly eyes of
Bois DesCaut beneath the white lock on his temple. Long afterward was
the girl to recall that evening scene.

For another moment she hesitated, and then, from sheer loss of poise,
reached out her hand. The dancing eyes of the cavalier lit with all the
daring of conquest.

"My heart, Ma'amselle," he said gallantly, as he pressed the fragile
thing in her palm; and in another second he had stooped and kissed her,
as he had kissed many another woman, lightly, delicately, in the face of
the populace, joying to the depths of his careless nature in the dare
of the thing.

With a cry the girl sprang back, crushing the birchbark case with its
red flower into shapeless ruin. There was a muffled word, the flash of
a figure, and McElroy the factor had flung himself before her. She
caught the thud of a blow upon flesh and in a moment there were two men
locked in deadly combat before the post gate. In less time than the
telling, a circle of faces drew round, dark faces of Indians and Bois-
Brules, light faces of De Courtenay's men, and in all there leaped
swift excitement as they saw the combatants. White with passion, his
brilliant eyes flaming and dancing with fury, De Courtenay fought like
a madman to avenge that blow in the face, while McElroy, flushed and
calmer, took with his hands payment for all things,--slighted
kindliness, Company thefts, and, above all else, the stolen heart of
his one woman.

How it would have ended there is no telling, for these two were evenly
matched--what De Courtenay lacked in weight he made up in swiftness and
agility,--had it not been for the side arm that hung at his hip, one of
those small pistols in use across the water where gentlemen fight at
given paces and not across a frozen river or through a mile of brush.

Once, twice, he tried to reach it, and twice did McElroy snatch the
groping hand away. Three times he passed swiftly for the inlaid handle
and, as if there lay luck in the number, the weapon flashed in the red
light.

Swift as was the draw, McElroy was swifter.

With an upward stroke he flung up the hand that held it. There was a
shot, ringing down the Assiniboine and echoing in the woods, and little
Francette by the stockade wall screamed. With the first flash of metal
Maren Le Moyne had gripped her hands until the nails cut raw, standing
where she had sprung at the stranger's kiss.

She could no more move than the bastioned wall behind her.

For a moment there was deathly silence after that shot. Then
pandemonium broke loose as Negansahima, chief of the Nakonkirhirinons,
flung up his arms, the dull metal bands with their inset stones
catching the crimson light, and fell into the outstretched arms of
Edmonton Ridgar.

A long cry broke from his lips, the death-cry of a warrior.



CHAPTER XIII "A SKIN FOR A SKIN"

For a moment the whole evening scene, red with the late light, was set
in the mould of immobility. The two fighting men at sound of that cry
following hard upon the shot stopped rigidly, still clasped in the grip
of rage, the women staring wide-eyed from the wall, the Bois-Brules,
the leaning eager faces of the wild Nakonkirhirinons, the figure of the
girl in the foreground, all, all were stricken into stillness by that
dirge-like cry. For only the fraction of a second it held, that tense
waiting.

Then from nine hundred throats there shot up to the sky, turquoise and
pink and calm, such a sound as all the northland knew,--the wild blood-
cry of the savage.

It filled the arching aisles of the shouldering forest, rolled down the
breast of the river, and echoed in the cabins of the post, and with it
there broke loose the leashed wildness of the Indians. There was one
vast surging around the lodge where Ridgar knelt with the figure of the
chief in his arms, another where a tumbling horde fought to get to the
factor and De Courtenay.

At the stockade gate Prix Laroux, swift of foot and strong as twenty
men in the exigency of the moment, swept the women into his arms and
rushed them within the post. Above the hideous turmoil his voice rose
in carrying command,

"Into the post! Into the post,--every man inside! Man the rampart!"

It fell on ears startled into apathy by the suddenness of the tragic
happening, and there was a wild confusion of white people pulling out
of the mass like threads, all headed for the open gate. Swift as light
those guards of the guns on the rampart sprang to place, the watcher of
the portal swung the great studded gate ready for the clanging close,
and, in a twinkling, so alert to peril do they become who pierce the
wilderness, there were without only that howling mass of savages, De
Courtenay, McElroy, and Edmonton Ridgar gazing with dimmed vision into
the fast glazing eyes of the dying chief.

Only they? Standing where she had leaped at the cavalier's kiss, her
eyes wide, her lips apart, was Maren Le Moyne. In the hurrying rush of
frantic people she had been forgotten and she was utterly helpless.

As in a dream she saw the leaping forms close in upon the two men who
fought for her, knew that those of De Seviere were pouring past her to
safety, heard the boom of the great gate as it swung into place, and
for her life she could move. neither hand nor foot. Her body stood
frozen as in those horrid dreams of night when one is conscious, yet
held, in a clutch of steel.

Over the heaving heads with their waving eagle feathers she saw the
head and shoulders of De Courtenay rise, tipped sidewise so that his
long curls swung clear, shining in the light, and already he was bound
with thongs of hide.

She saw his handsome face again sparkling with that smile that was so
brilliant and that bore such infinite shades of meaning.

Now it was full of devil-may-care, as if he shrugged his shoulders at a
loss at cards, and in that second it fell upon her standing in horror.

"Ah, Ma'amselle!" he called, across the surging feathers; "the tune
changes! But you have my heart, and I,--I have one kiss! Adieu, my Maid
of the Long Trail! The chance was worth its turning."

Then the shining head sank into the mass and she heard no more.

She was conscious only of a giant form lurching, red-eyed and yelling,
out of the turmoil, of brown hands that clutched her arms, and of
another form which shot past her. For the second time in a few moments
one man had reached for her and another flung himself to her rescue.
She saw the Indian reel back with a red line spurting across his eyes,
felt herself lifted and flung across a shoulder, and knew that the gate
behind was swinging open. The next instant she slid down to her feet
with her face in the buckskin shirt of Marc Dupre, who leaned shaking
against the stockade wall and held her in a grip like steel, while
Henri Corlier shot the bolts into place.

Huddled in white groups were the women, some of them already raising
their voices in weeping, others silent with the training of the women
of the wilderness. The men faced each other with lips drawn tight and
breath that came swiftly. Prix Laroux, his dark eyes cool and sharp,
looked swiftly over the populace as they stood, for with that first
shot every man in Fort de Seviere had rushed to the gate, and in that
first moment of getting breath he calculated their strength and their
ability.

A leader born himself, he was looking for a leader among McElroy's men;
but, with that intrepid factor himself gone and Edmonton Ridgar also,
there was nowhere a man with the signs of leadership upon him.

Through Prix's mind this went while they stood listening to the death-
wail that was beginning to rise from the tepees without.

Then he quietly took command, knowing himself to be best fitted.

"Corlier," he said quietly, "leave the gate to Cif Bordoux. Take one
man and get to the southwest bastion. You, Gifford," turning to that
young clerk who worked in the sorting-room, "man the northwest. Garcon
and Dupre will take the forward two. The rest will stand ready with
guns and ammunition along the four walls and at the gates. We know not
what will transpire."

As if their factor spoke, the men of De Seviere turned to obey, feeling
that strange compelling which causes men to follow one man to death on
the field of battle, and which is surely the gift of God.

Out of his shaking arms Marc Dupre loosed Maren, the trembling
lessening as the danger passed. That sight of the defenceless girl
among the Indians had shaken him like a leaf in the wind, had nerved
his arms with iron, had worked in him both with strength and weakness.

Now he looked into her eyes and said never a word, for once again he
saw that they were dazed and void of knowledge.

As he set her upon her own strength, she swayed. Her eyes went round
the hushed groups of faces with wild searching. At last they found the
face of her leader, and clung there, dark and dull.

"Prix!" she cried. "Prix! Open the gate!"

"I cannot, Maren," he said quietly; "'twould be but madness."

"But they are without!"

All horror was in the cry.

"They are among the Indians!"

"Aye,--and may the good God have mercy on them!"

Laroux hastily made the sign of the cross.

"We must guard the post, Maren."

"But--" She turned her eyes slowly around from face to face and not a
woman there but read her secret plain, the open script of love,--but
for which man?

"But-they-will--be--" She did not finish the sentence, staring at
Laroux. Once she moistened her lips.

"They will--Prix,--as I am your leader, open that gate!"

With sudden reviving the daze went out of her features and the old
light came back to her eyes, the far-seeing, undaunted light that had
beaconed the long way from Grand Portage. She was every inch the leader
again, tall, straight against the logs, her brown arm pointing
imperiously to the closed gate.

"Open, I say!"

For a moment Laroux faced her squarely, the man who had tied himself to
her hand, pledged himself to forge the way to the Whispering Hills, who
followed her compelling leadership as these lesser men had turned to
follow his but now. Then he set his will to hers.

"I will not," he said quietly.

With no more words she flung herself upon the gate and tore at the
chains, her strong hands able as a man's. As the sight of her in peril
had worked for both weakness and strength in Dupre, so had McElroy's
plight affected her. That helpless moment was the one defection of her
dauntless life.

Now again she was herself, reaching for the thing of the moment, and
the roar outside the palisade, constantly rising in volume, in menace
and savagery, brushed out of her brain every cloud of shock. Laroux
caught her from behind, pinioning her arms.

"Maren," he said quietly, "hear me. Out there are five hundred warriors
wild as the heart of the Pays d'en Haut, howling over the body of their
dying chief. What would be the opening of the gate but the massacre of
all within? Could forty men take the factor from them? There would be
but as many more scalps on their belts as there are heads within the
post. See you not, Maren?"

In his iron grip the girl stood still, breathing heavily. As he ceased
speaking a great sigh came from her lips, a sigh like a sob.

"Aye," she said brokenly, "I see,--I see! Mary Mother! Let me go, Prix.
I see."

Laroux loosed her, knowing that the moment was past, and went at once
about his duties of throwing the post into a state of defence.

Once more strong and quiet, Maren went to the cabin by the gate. Here
Marie knelt at her bed with a crucifix grasped in her shaking hands,
her face white as milk and prayers on her trembling lips.

"Maren!" she gasped, with the child's appeal to the stronger nature.
"Oh, Maren, what will befall? For love of God, what will befall?"

"Hush, Marie," answered Maren; "'tis but a tragedy of the wild. Naught
will befall us of the post."

"But those without? What is that roaring of many throats? Little Jean
Bleaureau but now ran past crying that the Nakonkirhirinons were
killing the factor"

"No!" Marie jumped at the word like one shot, so wild and sudden it
was. "No! No! Not yet!"

Even in the stress of the moment Marie stared open-mouthed at her
sister.

"Holy Mother! It is love,--that cry! You love the factor!"

"Hush!" whispered Maren, dry-lipped.

The roar from the river bank had sharpened itself into one point of
utterance which pierced the calm heavens in a mingling of native
speech, French and broken English from Nakonkirhirinon and halfbreed,
and, worse than both, dissolute "white Indian," and its burden was,

"A skin for a skin!"



CHAPTER XIV FELLOW CAPTIVES

After that tense moment of hush following the shot, McElroy had no
distinct recollection of what occurred. He was conscious of a sickening
knowledge of Negansahima with his banded brown arms stretching into the
evening light, of the tepees, of the river beyond, of the face of
Edmonton Ridgar, and of all these etched distinctly in that effect of
sun and shade which picks out each smallest detail sometimes of a rare
evening in early summer. Then the whole scene went out in a smother as
an avalanche of bodies descended upon him. He could smell the heavy
odour of flesh half-naked, the scent of the hidden paint, he felt arms
that fought to grip him and fingers that clutched like talons. Under it
all he went down in the grass of the slope, fighting with all his
strength, but powerless as a gnat in a pond. Above the turmoil of cries
and guttural yells, even while he felt himself crushed at the bottom of
that boiling mass, he heard the light voice of De Courtenay ringing
clear in his whimsical farewell to Maren Le Moyne. Then he was wrenched
up through the mass, something struck him on the head with a sharp
blow, a shower of stars fell like a cataract, and the sickening scents
in his nostrils faded away.

When he again opened his eyes it was to behold real stars shining down
from a velvet sky, to hear the river lapping gently at the landing, and
the night birds calling in the forest. From the prairie beyond the
fringe of woods to the east there came the yapping of the coyotes, and
far to the north a wolf howled.

At first a sense of bewilderment held him. Then in a rush came back the
memory of what had happened. He listened intently. Back and forth, back
and forth somewhere near went a soft footstep, the swish and glide of a
moccasin. He strained his eyes, which smarted terribly, into the
darkness, and presently descried a tall form pacing slowly up against
the skyline of his vision and back again into the shadows. A single
feather slanted against the stars. A guard pacing the place of
captives.

With a slight movement McElroy tried to lift a hand.

It was immovable. He tried the other. It likewise refused his will.

So with both feet when he attempted, ever so cautiously, to move them.

He was bound hand and foot, and with cruel tightness, for with that
tiny slipping of his muscles there set up all through him such a
tingling and aching as was almost unbearable.

His head seemed a lump of lead, glued to whatever it lay upon, and big
as a buttertub.

Turning his eyes far as he could to the right, he looked long in that
direction. Faintly, after a while, he picked out the straight line of
the stockade top, the rising tower at the corner. The line of the wall
faded out in darkness the other way, strain as he might. To the left
were the ragged tops of the tepees, their two longer sticks pointing
above the others.

From the sound of the river, he must be between it and the stockade
gate.

Presently his numbed hearing became conscious of a sound somewhere
near, a sound that had rung so ceaselessly since his waking that it had
seemed the background for the lesser noise of the sentry's slipping
moccasin. It was the weird, unending, unbeginning wail of the women,
the death-song of the tribe mourning the passing of a chief, the voices
of some four hundred squaws blending indescribably.

McElroy listened.

With consciousness of that his mind grew clearer and he began to think.

What a fool he had been!

Once more had he played like an unbalanced boy at the game of love.

What right had he to strike De Courtenay for kissing the woman whom he
had won with his red flowers and his curls before the populace? That he
himself had fancied for a brief space that she was his was no excuse
for plunging like a boy at his rival's throat. If he had held his
peace, all would be well now and the old chief would not be lying stiff
and stark somewhere in the shadowed camp, the women wailing without
fires.

It was no balm to his sore heart that he in his blundering wrath had
wrought this fresh disaster. And his post, De Seviere, which he had won
by daring service and loyalty to the H. B. C., what would become of it?

Who after him would rule on the Assiniboine?

For well he knew that death, and death thrice,--aye, a million times
refined,--awaited so luckless a victim as he whose hand had killed the
great chief. But he had not killed Negansahima. It was the gun in De
Courtenay's hand. Ah, De Courtenay! Where was De Courtenay? A captive
assuredly, if he was one. They had both gone down together under the
foam of that angry human sea. And, if he was here, his antagonist must
be somewhere near. With exquisite torture, McElroy slowly turned his
head to right and left. At the second motion his face brushed something
close against his shoulder. It was cloth, a rough surface corrugated
and encrusted with ridges,--what but the braid on the blue coat of the
Montreal gallant!

There was no start, no answering movement at his touch. The rough
surface seemed strangely set and still.

He lay silent and thought a moment with strange feelings of new horror
surging through him.

Was De Courtenay dead?

Or was it by chance a stone under the braided coat, a hillock where it
had been thrown? That strange feeling of starkness never belonged to a
human body soft with the pulse of life.

For hours McElroy lay staring into the night sky with its frosting of
great northern stars, and passed again over every week, every day,--
nay, almost every hour,--since that morning in early spring when she
had stepped off the factory-sill to accompany little Francette to the
river bank where Bois DesCaut stood facing a tall young woman against
the stockade wall.

With dreary insistence his sore heart brought up each sweet memory,
each thrill of joy of those warm days. He saw every flush on her open
face, every droop of her eyes. Again he saw the white fire in her
features that day in the forest glade when she spoke of the Land of the
Whispering Hills. He pondered for the first time, lying bound and
helpless among savages, of that unbending thing within her which drove
her into the wilderness with such resistless force. Granted that she
had loved him as he thought during that delirious short space of time,
would love have been stronger than that force, or would it have been
sacrificed? She was so strong, this strange girl of the long trail, so
strong for all things gentle, so unmoving from the way of tenderness.
Proving that came the picture of the tot on her shoulder. "dipping as
the ships at sea, ma cherie," and the look of her face transfigured.
And yet home for her was "the blue sky above, the wind in the pine-
tops, the sound of water lapping at the prow of a canoe." So she had
said on that last day they spoke together in happiness, passing in
diffident joy to the gate to meet De Courtenay's fateful messenger.

Of all women in the vast world she was the one woman. There was never
another face with that strange allurement, that baffling light of
strength and tenderness.

Sore, sore, indeed, was the heart of the young factor of Fort de
Seviere as he lay under the stars and listened to the death-wail in the
darkened camp.

Nowhere was there a fire.

Desolation sat upon the Nakonkirhirinons.

Along toward dawn, presaged by the westward wheeling of the big stars,
tom-toms began to beat throughout the maze of lodges. They beat oddly
into the air, cold with the chill of the coming day,

McElroy's thoughts had left the great country of the Hudson Bay and
travelled back along the winding waterways, across the lakes, and at
last out on that heaving sea which bore away from his homeland. Once
more he had been in the smoke of London town, had looked into the
loving eyes of his mother and gripped the hand of his tradesman father.
Once more he had wondered what the future held.

The sudden striking up of the tom-toms answered him.

This.

This was to be the end of his eager advance in the Company's favour,
the end of that good glass of life whose red draught he had drunk with
wholesome joy, the end of love that had but dawned for him to sink into
aching darkness.

He sighed wearily. So poignant was his sense of loss and the pain of it
that the end was a weariness rather than a new pain.

The thing that hurt was the fact that he himself had juggled the cards
of fate to this sorry dealing.

The sudden rage concerning De Courtenay had spent itself. There
remained only the deep anger of the man who has lost in the game of
love. And yet, what right had he to cherish even this wholesome anger
against his rival when the maid had chosen of her own free will? As
well hold grudge to the great Power whose wisdom had given the man such
marvellous beauty. As he lay in the darkness listening to the unearthly
noises he worked it all out with justice.

He alone was to blame for the sorry state of things.

De Courtenay was but a man, and what man, looking upon Maren Le Moyne,
could fail to love her?

Therefore, he freed his rival of all blame.

And Maren,--oh, blameless as the winds of heaven was Maren!

What had she given him that he could construe as love?

Only a look, a blush to her cheek, the touch of a warm hand.

In his folly he had hailed himself king of her affections when
perchance it was but the kindliness of her womanly heart.

And what maid could be blind to De Courtenay's sparkling grace,--
compared to which he was himself a blundering yokel?

Thus in bound darkness he reasoned it all out and strove to wash away
the anger from his heart.

And presently there came dawn. First a cold air blowing out of the
forest, and then a deeper darkness that presently gave way to faint,
shadowy light.

Here and there tall figures came looming, ghostly-fashion, out of
chaos, to take slow shape and form, to resolve themselves into tapering
lodges, into hunched and huddled groups.

And with light came action.

McElroy saw that around the central lodge before the gate there was a
solid pack of prostrate Indians covering the ground like a cloth, and
from this centre came the tom-toms and the wailing.

It was the lodge of the chief and within lay the stark body of the
murdered Negansahima.

As the faint light grew, one by one the warriors rose out of the mass
like smoke spirals, drawing away to disappear among the tepees. Soon
there came the sound of falling poles and McElroy knew that they were
striking the camp.

For what?

Why, surely, for one thing.

A chief must go to the great Hunting Ground from his own country; in
his own country must his bones seek rest.

They would journey back up the long and difficult trail down which they
had just come to that vague region from which they hailed.

But what of him, and of De Courtenay, if he was yet alive?

He wondered why they had been reserved.

The light came quickly and he looked eagerly around on the moving camp.

With quickness and precision the whole long village was reduced in a
few minutes to rolled coverings, gathered and tied utensils, stacked
packs of furs, and ranged canoes already in the water lining the shore.

He could not help a feeling of regret for this wild people, coming but
few suns back with their rich peltry, their pomp, and their hopes of
gain, as they prepared for the back trail, the whole tribe in deepest
mourning.

Of all the tents, that one before the post gate alone stood, silent
reproach to the white man's ways.

Around it still knelt a solid pack, wailing and beating the drums.

As the grey light turned whiter, he turned his stiffened neck for a
glance at the thing against his shoulder.

He looked into the smiling eyes of Alfred de Courtenay.

"Bonjour, M'sieu," whispered that ardent venturer; "you nuzzled my arm
all night. Apparently we are fellows in captivity, as we have been
opposed in war,--and love."

"Aye, M'sieu," whispered back McElroy, not relishing the turn of the
sentence but passing it by; "and a sorry man am I for this state of
events. I owe you my regrets,--not for what I did, mark you,--but for
the way and the time and place. Had I waited and proceeded as a
gentleman, we should not be in this devilish plight, nor that fine old
chief a victim to our blunder."

"Tish!" said De Courtenay lightly; "'tis all in a day's march. And,
besides, I have,--memories,--to shorten the way."

The pacing guard came back and the two men fell silent.

At that moment a stentorian call pealed above the dismantled camp, and
there began a vast surge of the mass of Nakonkirhirinons toward the
waiting canoes, a dragging of goods and chattels, a hurry of crying
children, a scurrying of squaws. In the midst of it the flaps of the
big lodge were opened and, amid redoubled wailing, a stark wedge of the
length of a tall man came headforemost out, carried on the shoulders of
six gigantic warriors; and walking beside it, bareheaded in the new
day, was Edmonton Ridgar, his face pale and downcast. He paid no heed
to the two men on the ground, though one was his factor and his friend.



CHAPTER XV LONG TRAIL

The women changed their wail as the procession started for the waiting
canoes, and from all the long camp there drew in a horde of savages,
their eagle feathers slanting in the light, bare shoulders shining
under unhidden paint, skin garments and gaudy shirts alike cast to the
winds.

They surged along chanting their unearthly song, and the mass of them
swept by where lay the two men.

Not a glance was given them, no taunts, no jeers with which the tribes
of the North-west were wont to torment their captives.

The swish of the moccasined feet was as the sound of many waters.

"No time for play," thought McElroy; "that will come later,--when we
have reached the Pays d'en Haut."

For he knew now that he and De Courtenay were to be taken along.

The body of Negansahima was placed in the first canoe, covered with a
priceless robe of six silver foxskins laced together; the six big
warriors, their halfnaked bodies painted black, manned the paddles, and
at the prow there stood the sad figure of Edmonton Ridgar.

At one side had drawn out old Quamenoka and his Assiniboines, their way
lying to the west. They raised a chant as the first canoe circled out
and headed down the stream. Behind it fell in five canoe-loads of Bois-
Brules, their attachment a mystery, and the river became alive with the
great flotilla.

Not until the death-boat had passed the far bend did the pacing Indian
give way to a dozen naked giants, who lifted the captives with ceremony
and carried them down the slope.

As he swung between his captors McElroy looked back at the closed gates
of De Seviere and a sharp pain struck at his heart, a childish hurt
that the post he had loved should watch his exit from the light of life
with unmoved front. It seemed almost that the bastioned wall was
sensate, as if the small portholes here and there were living eyes,
cold and hard with indifference, nay, even a-glitter with selfishness.

But quick on the sense of hurt came the knowledge which is part of
every man in the wilderness; and he knew well that every face in the
little fort was drawn with the tragedy, that from those blank portholes
looked human eyes, sick with the thing they could not avert, that
whoever had taken charge within was only working for the safety of the
greatest number, and with the thought his weakness passed.

Only one more pang assailed him.

He gave one swift thought to Maren Le Moyne. Where in Fort de Seviere
was she, and what was in her heart?

Then he was swung, still bound, into the bottom of a canoe, saw De
Courtenay tossed into another, felt the careless feet of Nakonkirhirinons
as the paddlemen stepped in, and existence became a thing of gliding
motion, the lapping of water on birchbark, and the passing of a long
strip of cloud-flecked sky, pink and blue and gold with the new day.

Lulled by the rocking of the fragile craft that shot forward like a
thing of life beneath the paddles dipping in perfect unison, McElroy
lay its a sort of apathy for hours, watching the sliding strip of sky
and the bending bodies of the Indians. He knew that the end awaited him
somewhere ahead, but it was far ahead, very far, even many leagues
beyond York factory, and his mind, again dropping into the dulness of
his early awakening, refused to concern itself with aught save the blue
sky and the sound of water lapping on birchbark. That sound was sweet
to his befuddled brain, suggesting something vaguely pleasant.

Ah, yes, it was the deep voice of the maid of the long trail speaking
of the streams and the waving grass of that visionary Land of the
Whispering Hills.

He fell to wondering at broken intervals if she would ever reach it, to
see drowsy visions of the tall form leading its band of venturers into
the wilderness beyond Lac a la Croix, penetrating that country which
tried the hearts of men, and with the visions came a sadness.

She would go without love, mourning her cavalier of the curls, and who
would be responsible for the desolation of the heart he would fain have
made happy but himself?

McElroy sighed, and the visions faded.

When he again awakened it was evening and camp had been made. Fires
danced and crackled all up and down the reach of shore set like a half-
moon of pearl in a sea of emerald, where the forest shouldered down to
the stream, and the smell of cooking meat was poignantly sweet. Women
were busy at the work of the camp, carrying wood, mending the fires,
tending the kettles swung from forked sticks, and scolding the
scrambling children.

Here and there a half-naked Indian stalked silently, his long feather
slanting in the light, but for the most part the warriors were gathered
in a silent mass a little way apart where the big tepee had been set
up.

The clouds were gone from his brain, and he was keenly conscious of
hunger.

He was still bound, though not so tightly, some of the thongs having
been taken off entirely, and he found that he could sit up with
comparative ease, though his hands were still fast behind him and his
ankles tied.

There was no pacing guard this time, distance and possession making
such precaution needless, for well the Nakonkirhirinons knew that none
from the little post on the Assiniboine would attempt rescue in face of
so great a horde as an entire tribe.

McElroy sat up and looked around.

One of the first things he encountered was the face of the cavalier,
still smiling and looking very much as it had looked in the dawn.

Like that encounter, too, De Courtenay was the first to speak in this.

"Aha, my fighter of the H. B. C.," he laughed from his seat against a
towering maple, "have your laggard wits come in from wool-gathering?"

He, too, was more comfortably bound, and McElroy noticed that there
were little rubbed creases in the sleeves of the gay blue coat where
the numbing bonds had cut. The sparkling spirit was as high in his
handsome face as it had been that long past morning morning by the
well. The factor wondered if there was in heaven or earth anything with
power to dim it.

He was to see, and marvel at, the test.

"Aye," he answered the cheerful query; "it has been a weary day,
M'sieu, it would seem, with my senses drifting out and in at ragged
intervals of which I have only vague impressions. How has it fared with
you?"

"Much as another day. There has been plenty to see and enjoy, even from
under the feet of our hasty friends of the paddles."

"Enjoy! Holy Mother! Have you not been thinking over your sins,
M'sieu?"

"Sins? I have none. Who thinks of sins while the red blood runs? Rather
have I dreamed dreams of,--memories. Ah, no, M'sieu, it has not been a
weary day to me, but one of swift emotions, of riots of colour in a
strip of racing sky when the sun turned his palette for a gorgeous
spread. The sunset was stupendous at its beginning. Now the darker
greys come with so much forest."

McElroy fell silent, biting his lip.

Sorry as he felt for the plight of his rival, the old anger was close
to his heart, and it seemed that the rascal knew it and probed for a
weak spot with his smiling allusions to his memories. Memories of what
but of the red lips of a girl?

The young factor, too, had memories of those red lips, though they gave
him only a pain so bitter as not to be borne.

Almost it forced from his heart the gentle justice he had striven so
hard to keep in sight.

As he sat thinking and staring at the twilight river rippling below, a
man came from the forest at the back of the camp and passed near on his
way to the fires.

It was Bois DesCaut, and he did not lift his evil eyes.

The white lack on his temple gleamed with a sinister distinctness amid
his black hair.

"Double foe," thought McElroy; "I am to pay for my own words and
Maren's blow."

As the trapper passed he sidled swiftly near the Nor'wester and
something dropped from a legstrap. It was a small knife, and it tumbled
with seeming carelessness close to De Courtenay's knee.

"So," thought McElroy again; "by all rights that should have been for
me."

DesCaut went on into the heart of the camp among the women, and De
Courtenay began moving ever so cautiously toward the priceless bit of
steel.

With that hidden in one's garments what not of hope might rise within a
daring heart?

What not, indeed! Life and liberty and escape and a home-coming to a
rival's very hearthstone, and more,--soft lips and arms of a woman.

The cavalier was smiling still as he edged inch by inch along the
little way, his back against the maple.

"See you, M'sieu," he whispered; "how loyal are the servants of the
North-west Company?"

McElroy did not answer. Bitterness was rife within him. Even his one
friend in the wilderness, Edmonton Ridgar, on whose sound heart he
would have risked his soul, had passed him by without a look.

Verily, life had suddenly been stripped, as the hapless birch, of all
its possessions.

He was thinking grimly of these things when a young squaw came lightly
up from somewhere and stopped for a second beside De Courtenay. She
looked keenly at him, and stooping, picked up the knife.

"Another turn to the wheel, M'sieu," said that intrepid venturer; "what
next?"

As if his thought had reached out among the shadows of the wood where
stood the death tepee and touched its object, Edmonton Ridgar appeared
among the lodges. He was bare-headed, and McElroy saw that his face was
deep-lined and anxious, filled with a sadness at which he could but
marvel and he passed within a stone's throw without so much as a glance
at his superior.

No captive was this man, passing where he listed, but McElroy noticed
the keen eyes watching his every move.

What was he among this silent tribe with their war-paint and their
distrust of white men?

It was a hopeless puzzle, and the factor laid it grimly aside. Next to
the closed and impregnable front of his own post what time he passed
from its sight, this cold aloofness of his chief trader cut to inmost
soul.

But these things were that life of the great North-west whose
unspeakable lure thralled men's souls to the death, and he was content.

It was chance and daring and danger which drew him in the beginning to
the country, love of the wild and breath of the vast reaches, something
within which pushed him forward among these savage peoples, even as the
same thing pushed Maren Le Moyne toward the Whispering Hills, sent De
Courtenay to the Saskatchewan.

At any rate he was very hungry, and when a bent and withered crone of a
squaw brought food and loosed his right hand, the young factor tossed
up his head to get the falling hair out of his eyes and fell to with a
relish.

"Faugh!" said De Courtenay with the first mouthful; "I wonder, M'sieu,
is there nothing we can do to hasten the end? Many meals of this would
equal the stake."

Whereat the gallant smilingly tossed the meat and its birchbark platter
at the woman's feet.

"If you would not prefer starvation, I would suggest that you crawl for
that, M'sieu," said McElroy gravely; but the wrinkled hag gathered it
up, and left them to the night that was fast settling over the forest.

Thus began the long trail up to the waters of Churchill and beyond into
that unknown region where few white men had yet penetrated, and fewer
still. returned.



CHAPTER XVI TRAVEL

Day followed day. Summer was upon the land, early summer, with the
sweet winds stirring upon the waters, with gauze-winged creatures
flitting above the, shallows where willow and vine-maple fringed the
edges and silver fish leaped to their undoing, with fleecy clouds
floating in a sapphire sky, and birds straining their little throats in
the forest.

McElroy and De Courtenay were loosed of their bonds and given paddles
in the canoes, a change which was welcomed gladly.

At night a guard paced their sleeping-place and the strictest
surveillance was kept over them.

Down the Assiniboine, into Red River, and across Portage la Prairie
went the great flotilla, green shores winding past in an endless
pageant of foliage, all hands falling to at the portages and trailing
silently for many pipes, one behind the other, all laden with
provisions and packs of furs, the canoes upturned and carried on heads
and shoulders.

Of unfailing spirits was Alfred de Courteray.

"'Od's blood, M'sieu," he would laugh, oddly mixing his dialect, "but
this is seeing the wilderness with a vengeance! Though there is no lack
of variety to speed the days, yet I would I were back in my post of
Brisac on the Saskatchewan, with a keg of good-liquor on the table and
my hearty voyaguers shouting their chansons outside, my clerks and
traders making merry within. Eh, M'sieu, is it not a better picture?"

"For you, no doubt. For me, I had rather contemplate a prayer-book and
recall my mother's teaching in these days," answered McElroy simply.

"What it is to have sins upon one's conscience!" sighed the venturer.
"Verily, it must preclude all pleasant thoughts." And he fell to
humming a gay French air.

Presently the foaming river, growing swifter as it neared the great
lake, leaped and plunged into the wide surface of Winnipeg, shooting
its burdens out upon the glassy breast of the lake like a spreading
fan.

Here the blue sky was mirrored faithfully below with its lazy clouds,
the green shores rimmed away to right and left, and the swarming
canoes, with their gleaming paddles, made a picture well worth looking
at.

The Nakonkirhirinons were going back to the Pays d'en Haut by another
way than that by which they had come.

Hugging the western shore, the flotilla strung out into the formation
of a wedge, with the canoe of the dead chief at the apex, and went on,
day after day, in comparative silence.

With the passing of the sleeping green shores, the ceaseless slide of
the quiet waters, a tender peace began to come into McElroy's soul.

With the gliding days he could think of Maren without the poignant pain
which had been unbearable at the beginning, could linger in thought
over each .detail of her wondrous beauty, the clear dark eyes, sane and
earnest and full of the hope of the dreamer, the full red mouth with
its sweetness of curled corners, the black hair banded above the smooth
brow, the rounded figure under the faded garment, the shoulders
swinging with the free walk after the fashion of a man.

Verily, the wilderness held healing as well as hurt.

So followed each other the dawns and the summer noons and the
marvellous twilights, with pageantry of light and colour and soft winds
attuned to the songs of birds, and the two men neared the mystery of
Fate.



CHAPTER XVII THE COMPELLING POWER

Back in De Seviere the gloom of the forest in bleak winter sat heavily
on every cabin.

Women went about with misty eyes and men were oddly silent.

Not one of all his people who did not love the whole-hearted factor
with his ready laugh, his sympathy in all the little life of the post,
his unfailing justice; not one who did not strive to keep away the
haunting visions of leaping flames above fagots, and all the ugly
scenes that imagination, abetted by grim reality, could conjure up.

On that fateful morning when the rising sun saw the slim canoes of the
Nakonkirhirinons trailing around the lower bend, Maren Le Moyne stood
by the little window in the small room to the east of the Baptiste
cabin and covered her face with her hands.

Great breaths lifted her breast, breaths that fluttered her open lips
and could not fill the gasping lungs beneath, that sounded in the
little room like tearless tearing sobs.

"Heavenly Mother!" she gasped between them; "Thou who art
woman...Mary..."

But the prayer hung aborted between the shuddering sighs.... Who shall
say that it is not such a cry, torn from the depths of the spirit by
instinct groping for its god, which reaches swiftest the Eternal
Infinite?

Until the last sound had faded into the morning, until the last little
ripple had widened to the shores and died among the willows, until the
screaming birds, startled from the edges of the river, had settled into
quiet, she stood so, fainting in her Gethsemane. She alone of all the
post had remained away from the great gate where was gathered the
populace at the nearest vantage point.

Silence of the young day hung in the palisade, a silence that cut the
soul with its tragic portent.

Even little Francette Moline, weeping openly, pressed close in the mass
and jerked with unconscious savagery of spirit the short ears of the
husky at her heels,--that Loup whom no man dared to touch save only the
master his fierce spirit must needs acknowledge. It had been DesCaut by
brutality. Now it was the little maid by love.

Strange cat of the woods, Francette could be as riotous in her
tenderness as in her enmity.

In the bastions Dupre and Garcon and Gifford watched the scene with the
grim quiet of men born in the wilderness, while at the portholes
trapper and voyageur and the venturers from Grand Portage handled their
guns and waited.

None knew what might happen, for these Indians were not to be judged by
any standard they knew.

Henri Baptiste held the trembling Marie in his arm, while Mora and Anon
and Ninette clung together in a white-faced group. A little way aside
Micene Bordoux comforted a frightened woman and held a child by the
hand.

Big Bard McLellan stood by a porthole, his eyes always pensive with his
own sadness, gazing with grave sorrow to where McElroy swung down the
slope between his captors.

Thus they watched his going, and he had been spared that sick pain had
he known.

When it was over, Prix Laroux turned back to the deserted factory and
stood hesitating on its step.

This was one of the crises which so commonly confronted the fur
industry in the North-west.

What had he a right to do?

The simple man considered carefully. What right but the right of
humanity to do the best for the many could send a servant into the seat
of power?

And yet who among them all was fitted?

Not the clerks, youths from the Bay, not the traders nor the trappers.

With a daring heart the venturer from Grand Portage went in across the
sill.

To a man the men of De Seviere rallied to him and council was held.

Everywhere in the trading-room, the living-room behind, were evidences
of the factor and Ridgar. It seemed as if the two men had but just
stepped out-were not in hostile hands drifting down the river toward an
unspeakable fate.

In the midst of the grave-faced council another step sounded on the
sill and once again Maren Le Moyne stood looking in at the factory
door, though this time there was no eager interest on her face, only a
drawn tenseness which cut to the heart of her leader like a knife.

"Come in, Maren," he said in aching sympathy.

"Men," she said straightly, "is there none among you who will turn a
hand to save his factor?"

Over every face her eyes travelled slowly, hot and burning.

In every face she read the same thing,--a pitying wonder at the folly
of her words.

"Aye," spoke up Henri Corlier, grizzled and weathered by his years of
loyal service to the Great Company, "not a man among us, Ma'amselle,
but would give his life if it would serve. It would not serve."

"And you?" her gaze shifted feverishly to Laroux; "you, Prix?"

"'Tis useless, Maren. What would you have us do?"

"Do?"

She straightened by the door, and the hand on the lintel gripped until
the nails went white.

"Do? Anything save sit with closed gates in safety while savages burn
your factor at the stake! The Hudson's Bay brigade comes from York this
very month. What easier than to meet it and get help of men and guns?"

"Nay," said Laroux gently; "you do but dream, Maren."

Whereat the girl turned abruptly from the doorway and went down among
the cabins.

Here and there in the doorways groups of women stood together, their
voices hushed and trouble in their eyes.

As Maren passed, seeing nothing to right or left, they looked in pity
upon her.

The heart of this woman was drifting with the canoes,--but with which
man?

"'Tis the gay Nor'wester with his golden curls," whispered Tessa Bibye
sympathetically.

"The Nor'wester? 'Tis little you know, truly, Tessa," said the young
wife of old Corlier. "What maid in her senses would look twice at
yonder be-laced dandy when a man like Anders McElroy stood near?"

"Aye, an' may the Good God have mercy on our factor!" whimpered a
withered old woman, wife of a trapper, making the sign of the cross;
"nor hold back His mercy from the other!"

Night seemed to fall early on Fort de Seviere, waiting sadly for its
healing touch on fevered hearts.

Throughout the long day a waiting hush had lain upon the post, an
expectancy of ill.

Over the dark forest the stars came out on a velvet sky, and a little
wind came out of the south, nightbirds called from the depths, and
peace spread over the Northland like a blanket.

While the twilight lasted with its gorgeous phantasmagoria there were
none of the accustomed sounds of pleasure in the post,--no fiddle
squeaked by the stockade wall, no happy laughter wafted from the
cabins. Even the sleepy children seemed to feel the strangeness and
hushed their peevish crying.

Night and darkness and loneliness held sway, and in one heart the
shadows of the world were gathered.

What was the meaning of this Life whose gift was Pain, where was the
glory of existence?

By the window to the east Maren Le Moyne stood in the darkness, with
her hands upon her breast and her face set after the manner of the
dreamer who follows his visions in simpleness of soul.

Once again a great call was sounding from the wilderness, as that which
lured her to the Whispering Hills had sounded since she could remember,
once more the Long Trail beckoned, and once more she answered, simply
and without fear.

She waited for the depth of night.

Long she stood at the little window, facing the east like some
worshipper, even until the wheeling stars spelled the mid hour.

To Marie she gave one thought,--child-like Marie with her dependence
and her loving heart. But Marie, to whom she had been all things, was
safe in the care of Henri. There remained only the dream of the
Whispering Hills and the illusive figure of a man,--an old man, sturdy
of form and with blue eyes set in swarthy darkness.

Poignant was the pain that assailed her at that memory. Would she ever
reach that shadowy country, ever fulfil the quest that was hers from
the beginning? Did she not wrong that ghostly figure which seemed to
gaze with reproach across the years? Her own blood called, and she
turned aside to follow the way of a stranger, an alien whose kiss had
brought her all sorrow.

And yet she was helpless as the water flowing to the sea. The primal
quest must wait. Her being turned to this younger man as the needle to
the pole, even though his words were false, his kiss a betrayal.

When the mid hour hung in silence over the wilderness a figure came out
of the darkness and stood at the gate beside that watcher, Cif Bordoux,
who paced its length with noiseless tread.

A strange figure it was, clad in garments that shone misty white in the
shadow, whose fringes .fluttered in the warm wind and whose glowing
plastron glittered in the starlight.

"Cif Bordoux," said the figure, "I would go without."

Wondering and startled, Bordoux would have refused if he dared; but
this was the leader of the Long Trail and her word had been his law for
many moons, nor had he ever questioned her wisdom.

Therefore he drew the bolts and opened the gate the width of a man's
body, and Maren Le Moyne slipped outside the palisade into the night.

A rifle hung in her arm and a pouch of bullets dangled at her knee.

Swiftly and silently she pushed a canoe into the water at the landing,
stepped in, and with one deep dip of a paddle sent the frail craft out
to midstream. She did not turn her head for a farewell glance toward
the post, but set her face toward the way that led to the Pays d'en
Haut and the man who journeyed thither.

Deep and even her paddle took the sweet waters and the current shot her
forward like a racer. The dark shores flowed by in a long black ribbon
of soft shadow, their leaning grasses and foliage playing with the
ripples in endless dip and lift. No fear was in her, scarce any thought
of what she did, only an obeying of the call which simplified all
things.

McElroy was in danger, and she followed him.

That was all she knew, save the mighty sorrow of his falseness which
never left her day or night.

He had taught her love in that one passionate embrace in the forest,
and it was for all time.

What mattered it that he had turned from her for another? That was the
sorry tangle of the threads of Fate,--she had naught to do with it.

Love was born in her and it set a new law unto her being, the law of
service.

Every fibre in her revolted at thought of his death. If it was to be
done beneath the pitying Heaven, he should be saved. He must be helped
to escape. The other was insupportable. Nothing mattered in all the
world save that. Therefore she set herself, alone and fearless, to
follow the tribe of the Nakonkirhirinons to the far North if need be,
to hang on their flank like a wolverine, to take every chance the good
God might send. Chief of these was her hope of the Hudson's Bay brigade
which should be coming into the wilderness at this time of year.
Somewhere she must meet them and demand their help.

There was no rebellion in her, no hope of gain in what she did. Love
was of her own soul alone, since that evening by the factory when she
had seen the factor bend his head and kiss the little Francette.

No more did she think of his words in the forest, no more did she dream
of the wondrous glory of that first kiss.

Far apart and impersonal was McElroy now,--only she loved him with that
vast idolatry which seeks naught but the good of its idol.

Even if he loved Francette he must be saved for that happiness.

Therefore she knelt in a cockleshell alone on a rushing river and sped
through, a wilderness into appalling danger.

Such was the compelling power of that love which had come tardily to
her.



CHAPTER XVIII "I AM A STONE TO YOUR FOOT, MA'AMSELLE"

At dawn Maren shot her craft into a little cove, opal and pearl in the
pageantry of breaking light, and drawing it high on shore, went
gathering little sticks for a micmac fire.

The bullet pouch held small allowance of food. She would eat and sleep
for a few hours.

Deep and ghostly with white mist-wraiths was the forest, shouldering
close to the living water, pierced with pine, shadowy with trembling
maple, waist-high with ferns. She looked about with the old love of the
wild stirring dumbly under the greater feeling that weighted her soul
with iron and wondered vaguely what had come over the woods and the
waters that their familiar faces were changed.

With her arms full of dead sticks she came back to the canoe,--and face
to face with Marc Dupre. His canoe lay at the cove's edge and his eyes
were anguished in a white face.

"Ma'amselle," he said simply, "I came."

No word was ready on the maid's lips. She stood and looked at him, with
the little sticks in her arms, and suddenly she saw what was in his
eyes, what made his lips ashen under the weathered tan.

It was the same thing that had changed for her the face of the waters
and the wood. She had learned in that moment to read a man better than
she had read aught in her life beside the sign of leaf and wind.

"Oh, M'sieu!" she cried out sharply; "God forbid!"

The youth came forward and took the sticks from her, dropping them on
the ground and holding both her hands in a trembling clasp.

"Forbid?" he said and his voice quivered; "Ma'amselle, I love you.
Though my heart is full of dread, I am at your feet. By the voice of my
own soul I hear the cry of yours. We are both past help, it seems,
Ma'amselle,-yet am I that stone to your foot which we pledged yonder by
the stockade wall. You will let me go the long trail with you? You will
give me to be your stay in this? You will let me do all a man can do to
help you take the factor from the Nakonkirhirinons?"

The infinite sadness in Dupre's voice was as a wind across a harp of
gold, and it struck to Maren's heart with unbearable pain.

Her eyes, looking straight into his, filled slowly with tears, and his
white face danced grotesquely before her vision.

"M'sieu," she said quite simply, "I would to God it had been given me
to love you. We have ever seen eye to eye save in that wherein we
should have. And I know of nothing dearer than this love you have given
me. If you would risk your life and more, M'sieu, I shall count your
going one of the gifts of God."

"I cannot ask you to return, Ma'amselle,--too well do I know you,--nor
to consider all you must risk for, this,--life and death and the
certain slander of the settlement,--though by all the standards of
manhood I should do so. The heart in me is faithful echo of your own.
This trail must be travelled,--therefore we travel it together. And,
oh, Ma'amselle! Think not of my love as that of a man! Rather do I
adore the ground beneath your foot, worship at the shrine of your pure
and gentle spirit! See!"

With all the prodigal fire of his wild French blood, the youth dropped
on his knee and, catching the fringe on the buckskin garment, pressed
it to his lips.

For once Maren, unused to tears, could speak no word.

She only drew him up, her grip like a man's upon his wrists, and turned
to the making of the fire.

Dupre drew up his canoe and took a snared wild hen from the bow.

      *       *       *       *      *      *      *      *      *

"I think, Ma'amselle," said the youth when Maren awaked some hours
later from a heavy sleep, during which Dupre had killed the little
smoke of the fire and kept silent watch from the shore, "that we had
best leave your canoe here and take mine. It is much the better craft."

"So I see. Mine was but the first I could put my hands upon in the
darkness."

"'Tis that of old Corlier, and sadly lacking in repair. If you will
steer, Ma'amselle?"

Thus set forth as forlorn a hope as ever lost itself in that vast
region of hard living and daily tragedy, with the strength of the man
set behind the woman's wisdom in as delicate a compliment as ever
breathed itself in silken halls, and the blind courage of the dreamer
urged it on. .

At the forks of Red River they passed the signs of a landing.

Here had the Indians summarily sent ashore all of the Nor'westers who
had been with De Courtenay and who had followed in the uncertainty of
fear, not daring to desert lest they be overtaken and massacred.

All, that is, save Bois DesCaut and the lean, hawk-faced Runners of the
Burnt Woods.

Thanking their gods, the North-west servants had lost no time in taking
advantage of the fact that they were not wanted, leaving their Montreal
master to whatever fate might befall him.

Dupre went ashore and examined the reach of land, the trampled grass, a
broken bush or two.

"Ten men, I think," he said, returning, "and all in tremendous haste.
The Nor'westers escaping, I have no doubt. Would our captives were
among them."

"No such fortune, M'sieu," said Maren calmly, "Heard you not the cry
before the gate in that unhallowed scramble what time they took the
factor and the venturer? 'Twas 'a skin for a skin.' There are many
guards."

The summer day dreamed by in drowsy beauty, like a woman or a rose
full-blown, and Maren, who would at another time have seen each
smallest detail of its perfection through the eye of love, saw only the
rushing water ahead and counted time and distance.

Dupre, kneeling in the bow, his lithe brown arms bare to the shoulder,
where the muscles lifted and fell like waves, was silent. Sadness sat
upon him like a garment, yet lightened by a holy joy.

Odd servers of Love, these two, who knew only its pain without its
pleasure, yet who were standing on the threshold of its Holy of Holies.

Of nights they sat together at the tiny fire of a few laid sticks and
talked at intervals in a strange companionship.

Never again did they speak of love, nor even so much as skirt its
fringes, though the young trapper read with wistful eyes its working in
the woman's face. Out of her eyes had gone a certain light to be
replaced by another, as if a star had passed near a smouldering world
and gone on, changed by the contact, its radiance darkened by a deeper
glow.

The firm cheeks, dusky as sunset, had lost something of their contour.

Like comrades, too, they shared the work and the watches, the girl
standing guard with rifle and ball while Dupre snatched heavy sleep,
herself dropping down like the veriest old wolf of the North on mossy
bank or green grass for the rest they sternly shortened.

"'Tis near the time of the Hudson's Bay brigade, is it not, M'sieu?"
she would ask sometimes. "Think you we shall meet them surely if we
skirt the eastern shore of Winnipeg?"

And Dupre would always answer, "Assuredly. By the third week in July
they will be at the upper bend where the river comes down from York.
The Nakonkirhirinons will hold to the west, going up Nelson River and
west through the chain of little lakes that lie to the south of
Winnipeg, thence gaining Deer River and that Reindeer Lake which sends
them forth into their unknown region beyond the Oujuragatchousibi. We,
then, will make straight for the eastern shore, skirting upward to the
interception of the ways, and we will surely meet the brigade."

"And they will surely lend help, think you, to a factor of the Company
in such grave plight?"

"Surely, Ma'amselle."

So the hours of day and darkness slipped by with dip of paddle and with
portage, with snatched rest and fare of the wild.

In a plentiful forest and on an abundant stream Dupre was at no loss
for food. Trout, sparkling and fresh from the icy water, roasted on
forked sticks stuck in the ground beside a bed of coals, made fare for
an epicure, and the young trapper, watching Maren as she knelt to tend
them, shielding her face with her hand, thought wistfully of a cabin
where the fire leaped on the hearth and where this woman passed back
and forth at the tasks of home.

"'Tis too great a thing to ask of le bon Dieu," he said in his heart;
"'tis not permitted even that one dream of such joy,--'twould be heaven
robbed of its glory."

So he fished and hunted for her, as the primal man has hunted and
fished for his woman since time began, tended her fires and guarded her
sleep, and the wistful sadness within him grew with the passing days.

Down that northbound river the lone canoe with its two people hurried
after the great flotilla, silent and determined, like a starved wolf on
the flanks of a caribou herd.

Out on the breast of the great blue lake it, too, was shot by the
rushing waters, lone little cockleshell, to head its prow to the
eastward, where the green shore curved away, to take its infinitesimal
chance of victory against all odds.

When the sun came out of the eastern forest, a golden ball in a cloud
of fire, it saw the light craft already cutting the cool waters of
Winnipeg. When it sank into the western woods the bobbing dot was still
shooting forward.

Child of the wilderness by birth was Dupre, child of the wilderness by
dream and desire was Maren, and its simple courage was inborn in both.

The Indians were a day and night ahead, hurrying by dawn and dusk to
the north, that the body of the dead chief, cured like a mummy by the
smoke curling from the big tepee at every stop, might have burial, the
earth-bound spirit begin its journey to the shadowy hunting-grounds.

When McElroy took his last look backward at the blue lake from the
northern end, Maren and Dupre were making their last camp before the
Big Bend on the eastern shore.

"How soon, think you, M'sieu?" she asked that night, standing beside
the little fire; "how soon will they come,--the H. B. C.'s from York?"

"To-morrow, most like, or in a few days at most."

This evening luck had deserted his fishing, so the trapper took a rifle
and went into the woods after a fool-hen. Thoughts kept him company;
thoughts of love and its strangeness, of the odd decrees of Fate and
the helplessness of man. How all the world had changed with its coming,
this love which hail been born in an hour what time he had listened to
a woman's voice beside the stockade wall, and how the very soul within
him had changed also.

Where had been lightness and the recklessness of youth there was now a
wistful tenderness so vast that it covered his life as the pearly mist
covered the world at dawn.

Where he had taken all of joy that post and settlement, friend and foe
could give, lived for naught but his sparkling pleasures, he was now
possessed of a great yearning to give to this woman, this goddess of
the black braids; to give, only to give to her; to give of his
strength, of his overwhelming love; aye, of even his heart's blood
itself as he had told her in the beginning.

He was long in finding a fat grouse this evening, and when he returned
night was thick on forest and shore.

Light of tread in his moccasins, Dupre came quietly out not far from
the blaze of the small fire, and stopped among the shoulder-high brush
that fringed the forest.

In the glow of the fire Maren knelt before a green stake set upright in
the earth, from a fork of which there hung a black iron crucifix, its
ivory Christ gleaming in the light. On either side of this pitiful
altar there flamed, in lieu of candles, a fagot taken from the pine.

On her knees, her hanging hands clasped and her face, raised to the
Symbol, she spoke, and the deep voice was sweet with its sliding
minors.

"Jesu mia," she said softly, "forgive Thou our sins--Ours. Teach me Thy
lesson,--me with pain that will not cease. For him,--Oh, Thou Lord of
Heaven, comfort him living,--shrive him Thyself in dying! Let not the
unspeakable happen! Send, send Thou that help without which I am
helpless, and failing that, send me the strength of him who wrestled
with the Angel, the wisdom of Solomon! Not for my love, O Christ, but
for him, grant that I may find help to save him from death! And more,
--deliver also that venturer who, but for my thoughtless words of the
red flower, would be now safe on the Saskatchewan. These I implore, in
mercy. And for this last I beg in humbleness of spirit complete,--Grant
Thou peace to the friend whose eyes eat into my heart with pity! Peace,
peace, Jesu of the Seven Scars, have mercy on him, for he is good to
his foundations! I beg for him peace and forgetting of unhappy me!
Reward him in some better fate, this youth of the tender heart, of the
great regard! Save us, Thou Lamb Jesus--"

In the dark eyes there was a shine of tears, the lips, with their
curled corners, were trembling. The face upturned in the fitful light
was all tenderness. The calm brown hands clasped before her were all
strength.

Marc Dupre, in the forest's edge, felt his breast heave with an emotion
beyond control as he stood so, looking upon the scene, listening to the
sliding voice. Darkness hid the wilderness, out on the face of the lake
a fish leaped with a slap, and a nightbird called shrilly off to the
south. With aching throat the trapper turned softly back into the
woods. When he came later along the shore, with heavier step than was
his wont, the fagot and the forked stake were gone, there was no black
crucifix, and Maren waited by the fire, water brought from the lake in
Dupre's small pail, the little sticks ready for the roasting.

"Let me have the grouse, M'sieu," she said; "the hunt was long?"

But Dupre did not answer.



CHAPTER XIX THE HUDSON'S BAY BRIGADE

The two days that followed were heavy ones to Maren.

No farther did they dare venture lest they pass to the west and miss
the brigade coming down from the north and entering the lake at the
northeast extremity.

So they waited on the shore in anxiety of spirit, watching the bright
waters with eyes that ached with the intensity of the vigil, and Dupre
hunted in the forest and over the sand dunes, among the high meadows
that broke the heavy woods in this region, and down along the reaches
of the water.

"Farther with each day!" thought Maren to herself. "Holy Mother, send
the brigade!"

And Dupre echoed the thought in sadness of soul.

"More pain for her heart in each hour's delay. Would the trial were
done!"

About three of the clock on the first day of waiting there came sounds
of singing and a string of canoes rounded a bend of the shore at the
south.

"M'sieu!" cried Maren swiftly; "who comes?"

Dupre, tinkering at the canoe overturned on the pebbly beach,
straightened and looked in the direction she indicated.

He looked long with hand to eye, and presently turned quietly.

"Nor'westers, I think, Ma'amselle. They come from Fort William to the
Wilderness."

Fort William!

Back along the trail went memory with mention of the post on the
distant shore of Lake Superior. How oft had she peeped with fascinated
eyes from behind her father's forge at sturdy men in buckskins who
spoke with the blacksmith about the wonders of the country of the Red
River, and they had come from Fort William. She saw again the bustle
and activity of Grand Portage, the comfortable house of the Baptistes.
Once more she felt the old yearning for the unknown.

And this was it,--this gleaming stretch of inland sea, one man who
stood by her and another who betrayed her with a kiss, yet who drew her
after him as the helpless leaf, fallen to the stream, is whirled into
the white destruction of the rapids.

Aye, verily, this was the unknown.

She was looking down the lake with the sun on her uncovered head, on
the soft whiteness of the doeskin garment, and to young Dupre she had
never seemed so near the divine, so far and unattainable.

"Ma'amselle," he said presently, "if these newcomers speak us, heed you
not what I may say. There are times in the open ways when a man must
lie for the good of himself--or others."

The girl turned her eyes from the canoes, some twenty of them, to his
face. It was grave and quiet.

"Assuredly," she said after a moment's scrutiny. "Had I best hide in
the bushes, M'sieu?"

"No, they have seen us."

Sweeping forward, the brigade of the Nor'westers, for such it proved to
be, headed near in a circle and the head canoe turned in to shore.

"Friend?" called a man in the prow; whom Dupre knew for a wintering
partner by the name of McIntosh of none too savoury report.

"Hudson's Bay trapper, M'sieu," he said politely, going a step nearer
the water. "I wait, with Madame my wife, the coming of our brigade from
York, now one day overdue."

"Ah,--my mistake. I had thought the H. B. C.'s this fortnight gone down.
As ever, they are a trifle behind."

While he addressed Dupre his bold eyes were fastened on Maren, where
she hung a dressed fish on a split prong.

"Not behind, M'sieu," said the young man gently. "They but take the
time of certainty. A Saulteur passing this way at daylight reported
them as at McMillan's Landing."

"Then your waiting is short. I am glad,--for Madame. So lone a camp
must be hard for a woman."

With the words the Nor'wester scanned the girl's face with a glance
that pierced her consciousness, though her eyes were fixed on her task.
Not a tinge of deeper colour came to her cheeks. There was no betrayal
of the part Dupre had assigned her, and with a word of parting the
canoe swung out to its place, though McIntosh's eyes clung boldly to
her beauty so long as he could see her.

"Ah-h,--a close shave!" thought the trapper as he picked up a splinter
and once more fell to upon the boat.

Twenty-four hours later there came out of the north the thrice blessed
brigade of the H. B. C., bound down the lake to Grand Rapids, where the
canoes would separate into two parties, one going up the Saskatchewan
to Cumberland House, the other down to the country of the Assiniboine.

Eager as a hound for the quarry Maren stood forth beside Dupre to hail
them.

Head of the brigade was Mr. Thomas Mowbray, a gentleman of fine
presence and of gentle manners.

In answer to the hail from shore he came to, and presently he stood in
the prow of his boat listening to an appeal that lightened his grave
eyes.

"Men we must have, M'sieu," Maren was saying passionately; "men of the
Hudson's Bay. Against all odds we go of a truth, but strategy and wit
accomplish much, and the Nakonkirhirinons have no thought of rescue.
Besides, the farther north they get the less keen will be their
vigilance. With men, M'sieu, we may retake, by strategy alone of
course, the factor of Fort de Seviere. Therefore have we come across
your way, In the Name of Mary, M'sieu, I beg that you refuse me not!"

She was like some young priestess as she stood in the westering light
on the green-fringed shore, one hand caught in the buckskin fringe at
her throat and her eyes on Mr. Mowbray's upright face.

"Upon my word, Madame--?" he said when she had finished.

"Ma'amselle, M'sieu," she corrected simply.

"Ma'amselle,--your pardon,--upon my word, have I never seen such
appalling courage! Do you not know that you go upon a quest as hopeless
as death? This tribe,--I have heard a deal too much about them, and
once they came to York two seasons back,--are unlike any others of the
Indians of the country. Ruled by a peculiar justice which takes 'a skin
for a skin'--not ten or an hundred as do the Blackfeet or the Sioux,--
they yet surpass all others in the cruelty of that taking. Have you not
heard tales of this surpassing cruelty, Ma'amselle?"

"Aye, we have heard. It hastens our going. M'sieu the factor awaits
that cruelty in its extremest manner with the reaching of the Pays d'en
Haut."

"Mother of God!" said Mr. Mowbray wonderingly. "And yet,--I see!"

"And he is Hudson's Bay, M'sieu," said the girl sharply; "a good
factor. Would the Company not make an effort to save such, think you?"

Mr. Mowbray stood a moment, many moments, thinking with a line drawn
deep between his eyes. Out on the burnished water the canoes lay idly,
the red kerchiefs of the trappers making bright points of colour
against the blue background.

Presently he said slowly

"What yon ask is against all precedent, Ma'amselle, and I may lose my
head for tampering with my orders,--but I will see what can be done."

The brigade drew in, and when dusk fell upon the wilderness a dozen
fires kept company with the lone little spiral from Dupre's camp.

Sitting upon the shingle with her hands clasped hard on her knees,
Maren shook her head when the young trapper brought her the breast of a
grouse, roasted brown, along with tea and pemmican from the packs of
the H. B. men.

"I thank you, my friend," she said uncertainly; "but I cannot--not
now. Not until I know, M'sieu. Without many hands at the paddles how
can we overtake the Nakonkirhirinons?"

Thus she sat, alone among men, staring into the fire, and it seemed as
if the heart in her breast would burst with its anxiety. A woman was at
all times a thing of overwhelming interest in the wilderness, and such
a woman as this drew every eye in the brigade to feast upon her beauty,
each according to the nature of the man, either furtively, with
tentative admiration, or openly, with boldness of daring.

And presently, after the meal was over, she saw Mr. Mowbray gather his
men in a group. For a few moments he spoke to them, and a ripple of
words, of ejaculations and exclamations, went across the assemblage
like a wave.

"Nom de Dieu! Not alone?"

"To the Pay d'en Haut,--those two?"

"A woman? Mother of God!"

Wondering eyes turned to the figure in the glow of the fire, to the
brown hands hard clasped, the face with its flame-lit eyes.

"Five men and a good canoe I send with them," said Mowbray quietly;
"who goes? Know you it is a quest of death."

"Who goes, M'sieu?" cried a French trader. "I! 'Tis worth a year of the
fur trade!"

"And I!"

"And I!"

"And I!"

Once more she had made her appeal to man, man in the abstract, and once
more he had come to her, this maid of dreams.

Mr. Mowbray had lost half his brigade had he not fixed on those who
were the strongest among the volunteers, the best canoe-men, the best
shots.

Such were these men of the wilderness, excitable, ready for any hazard,
drawn by the longest odds, and to serve a woman gave the last zest to
danger.

Seldom enough did a woman appeal to them in such romantic wise.

"Brilliers,--Alloybeau,--Wilson," picked out Mr Mowbray, with a finger
pointing his words; "McDonald,--Frith,--make ready the fourth canoe,
Take store of pemmican and all things necessary for light travel and
quick. From to-morrow you will answer to Ma'amselle. When she is
through with you report to me, either at Cumberland or York, according
to the time."

And he left his men to walk over and seat himself beside Maren Le Moyne
on the shingle.

It was dark of the moon and the night was thick with stars and forest
sounds. Out on the lake beyond the ranged canoes at the water's edge,
the fish were slapping.

"Ma'amselle," said Mr. Mowbray gravely, "I have detailed you five men,
a canoe, and stores. May God grant that they may serve your purpose"

A long sigh escaped the girl's lips.

"And may He forever hold you in His grace, M'sieu!" she said
tremulously; "and bless you at the hour of death!"

"And now, Ma'amselle," he said gently, "tell me more of this strange
adventure. How comes it that a young maid, alone but for a youthful
trapper, goes to the Pays d'en Haut after a factor, of the Company? Why
did this duty not fall to the men of the post?"

"They said, as you, M'sieu, but an hour back, that it was a quest of
death. They love life. I love the factor."

She made her explanation simply, in all innocence, looking gravely into
the fire, and Mr. Mowbray gasped inwardly.

"I see. So Anders McElroy is your lover. A fine man, worthy of the love
of such a woman, and blessed above men in its possessing if I may make
so bold, Ma'amselle."

"Nay,--you mistake."

Maren shook her head.

"Not my lover. I but said that I love the factor He does not love me,
M'sieu."

"What? Heaven above us! What was that? Does not love you! And yet you
go into the Pays d'en Haut after the North Indians? You speak in
riddles."

"Why, what plainer? Life would die in me, M'sieu, did I leave him to
death by torture. I can do no less."

Mr. Mowbray sat in silence, amazed beyond speech.

When he rose an hour later to go to his camp he laid a hand on the
beaded shoulder wet with the night dew.

"Ma'amselle," he said, "I have seen a glimpse of God through the blind
eyes of a woman. May Destiny reward you."

Thus it came that before the dawn reddened the east the camp of the
brigade broke up for the start to the south and west, and one big canoe
with six men waited at the shore for one woman, who held both the hands
of Mr. Mowbray in her own and thanked him without words.

As the lone craft shot forth upon the steel-blue waters the leader of
the Hudson's Bay brigade looked after the figure in the bow, glimmering
whitely in the mists, and an unaccustomed tightness gripped his throat.

He had two daughters of his own, sheltered safe in London,--two maids
as far from this woman of the wild as darkness from the light, soft,
gentle creatures, and yet he wondered if either were half so gentle, so
truly tender.

Ere the paddles dipped, the men in the canoes with one accord, touched
off by some quick-blooded French adventurer, set up a chanson,--a
beating rhythmic song of Love going into Battle,--and every throat took
it up.

It flowed across the lightening face of the waters, circled around the
lone canoe and the woman therein, and seemed to waft her forward with
the God-speed of the wilderness.

She lifted her hand above her without turning her head, and it shone
pale in the mist, an eerie beacon, and thus the boat passed from view
in the greyness, though as the paddles dipped for the start the song
still rung forth, beating along the shore.

     *      *     *      *     *      *     *      *     *      *     *

"Men," said Maren Le Moyne at the first stop, "this is a trail of great
hazard. There is in it neither gift nor gain, only a mighty risk. Yet I
have asked you forth upon it as men of the H. B. C. because the man I
would save is a factor of the Great Company."

"Ma'amselle," said Bitte Alloybeau, a splendid black-browed fellow, "it
is enough."

"Aye,--and more." So was bound their simple allegiance.



CHAPTER XX THE WOLF AND THE CARIBOU

Northward along Nelson River went the concourse of the
Nakonkirhirinons, turning westward into the chain of little lakes above
Winnipeg of which Dupre had spoken, sweeping forward over portage and
dalle, and after them came the lone canoe, leaping the leagues like a
loup-garou, for it never rested.

Day and night it shot forward, pulled by sturdy arms, half its people
sleeping curled between thwarts, the other half manning the paddles,
stopping for snatched rations, reading the signs of passing. So it
crept forward upon the thing it sought, untiring, eager, absurd in its
daring and its hope.

Like an embodiment of that very absurdity of courage so dear to the
hearts of these men, the girl sat in the prow, taking a hand in the
work with the best of them, beaconing the way as she had done before
her venturers of Grand Portage, firing them with her calm certainty,
binding them to her more firmly with each day.

To each bit of courtesy done eagerly to her there was her grave "I
thank you,"--at each portage and line her hand to the rope, her
shoulder to the pack, and all in the simple unconsciousness of her
womanhood that made her what she was,--a leader.

Before forty-eight hours had passed they would have followed her to the
brink of death,--to the Pays d'en Haut, to the heart of an hostile
camp.

They fixed their eyes on her shining braids, bare to the sun, and
anticipated her commands, obeyed her few words implicitly, and who
shall say that many a dream did not weave itself around her in the
summer days, for every man in the boat was young.

Who knew?

Perhaps the Nakonkirhirinons had already yielded to the savage wrath
that takes a "skin for a skin,"--perhaps they had passed somewhere in
the forest, hidden from view from the water, the too well-known
blackened stake, the trodden circle. Perhaps there was no factor of
Fort de Seviere.

Only Marc Dupre, nearest Maren in every change and arrangement, had no
such thoughts. Dreams enough he wove in all surety, but they had to do
with the blinding heights of sacrifice, the wistful valleys of
renunciation.

His heart was full to overflowing with idolatry. From shadow and
fireglow his dark eyes looked upon her with a love that had passed far
beyond the need of word or touch, that buoyed her up and supported her
in strength and purity, like the silver cloud beneath the feet of the
Madonna.

And Maren, too, dreamed her dreams, for she had dreamed since the days
of the forge in Grand Portage, and they were sad as death. No more did
she list the sound of a western wind in the bending grass of a far
country, the rush of virgin rivers, the whisper of pine-clad hills. The
joy of the great quest was dead within her, the love of forest and
stream, the lure of trail and trace. Sadness sat upon her like a
garment. She only knew the pain that had birth that night in De Seviere
when she sought McElroy to disclaim the giver of the red flower and
found him kissing the red-rose cheek of the little Francette.

So went forth this little barque o' dreams.

Meanwhile what of the two men who journeyed ahead?

With each day they lost a little of the love of life, for with the
cunning which gave them their hazy fame the Nakonkirhirinons were
tightening the screws of cruelty.

Work beyond a man's strength was meted out to them. Alone in a long
canoe heavily laden, McElroy and De Courtenay were forced to keep the
pace set by the boats, each of which carried five men. Blisters came in
their hands, broke and rose again, sweat poured from their straining
bodies, and if they fell slow a spear-prod from the boat behind sent
them forward.

How much more exquisite could be made the torture of a victim already
worn to the ragged edge, how much sooner the scream be wrung from his
throat. With each passing league that brought them nearer the end of
the journey could be seen the fiendish eagerness rearing in the
glittering eyes.

Turn and turn they took, these two, of the hindmost seat in the canoe,
for the back of each was unspeakable from the spear-prods. Without a
word McElroy took his punishment as the lagging became more pronounced
from arms overtaxed at the paddles, but the long-haired adventurer from
the Saskatchewan taunted them to their faces.

Taunt and fling were unavailing. Of an unearthly poise were these
savages from the distant north. With grinning good humour they withheld
their anger, knowing full well that time would doubly repay.

Here and there among them appeared those worst monsters of the wilds,
INDIANS WITH BLUE EYES AND SQUARED-OUT TOES.

Far up ahead went forward the canoe of the dead chief, with Edmonton
Ridgar sitting in silence among the blackened warriors.

Never once did he glance backward, never once at the night camps did he
come near his factor.

Throughout the long days McElroy pondered this in his heart and turned
it over and over without satisfaction. Unable to form any conclusion he
fell to thinking of their friendship and of the gentle nature of the
man, the unbending faith of him.

It was all a sorry riddle.

"Brace up, M'sieu," De Courtenay would laugh, even in the midst of
exhaustion; "sing,--smile,--perhaps it will be only the stake, not
something worse. Console yourself, as do I, with--memories."

And McElroy would say nothing, trying in his heart to hold back his
wrath against this man for whose death he was to be responsible.

So went the uneven chase. Day's march of the savages and night's rest
on the green shores, mummying fires in the big tepee and the captives
lying in the sleep of exhaustion with one guard pacing the lodge
opening,--day's pursuit of the lone canoe, brief landings for tea made
at a micmac fire, scanning of lake and river and forest, night's
unceasing forging .ahead with Maren asleep in the prow, her head on
Dupre's blanket.

When the last hard portage was made which carried them into Deer River,
the girl looked to the west with a sudden fire of the old passion in
her eyes.

"So, M'sieu?" she said to Dupre, "it lies yonder, the Land of the
Whispering Hills? Would God our course lay there!"

And Dupre, wondering, answered, "Aye, at the Athabasca," for it was to
McElroy alone that she had uncovered her soul concerning the great
quest.

In Deer River the signs began to be plainer and fresher, showing the
passing of the Indians,--here a camp but two days deserted, there
scraps of refuse not yet cleared away by forest scavengers, and the
pursuers knew they drew close to danger and excitement.

All day the men of Mowbray's brigade bent to the paddles in growing
eagerness, and at the evening's stop Maren spoke to them, gathered
around with cold rations in their hands, for no fire was lighted now.

"To-morrow we will overtake the Nakonkirhirinons," she said simply, as
if that meant no more than speaking a brother brigade of Hudson's Bays,
"and then will come the time of action. At night-camp we will make our
effort of deliverance. You, Alloybeau, and you, McDonald, will keep
within my call whatever happens, while Frith and Brilliers and Wilson
will stay with the canoe, ready for instant flight. M'sieu," she laid a
hand on Dupre's arm and her voice deepened softly, "is scout and
captain and he goes at my side. More I cannot say until we know the lie
of land to-morrow."

So they again took boat, this little band of venturers than whom there
were no more daring threaders of the wilderness in all the vast unknown
country; and Maren sat in the prow, her hands idle in her lap, for she
had paddled since four by the sun.

Beside her, huddled half under the feet of Wilson on the foremost
thwart, Dupre watched the stars as they came out in a turquoise sky,
for the sleep that was due him would not come. He thought of the morrow
and what it would bring, and the sadness in his heart grew with the
deepening shades.

The fringed garment of white doeskin lay under his elbow and a fold of
it brushed his cheek, and, boy that he was, its touch brought the quick
tears to his eyes.

"Ma'amselle," he said presently, when the turquoise had faded to purple
and the purple to velvet black, with the stars like a dowager's
diamonds thickset upon it, "Ma'amselle, what think you is behind the
stars?"

Maren turned her face to him like a sweet young moon, pale in the
night.

"Behind the stars? Why, Heaven, M'sieu, where all is glory; Heaven
assuredly."

"Aye. Where all is glory. Yes, for those who keep the holy mandates,
whose hearts are pure as that heaven itself. For such as you. Oh, Holy
Mother!--" his voice fell to a whisper; "there is no heaven,
Ma'amselle, so pure as the white heart of you! But for him whose days
have gone like the butterfly's flight from one prodigal joy to the
next, whose heart has known neither love of God nor love of a good
woman, save for a little space, whose tongue has boasted and
blasphemed, and whose life has been worth no jot of good,--what, think
you, a waits so lost a man as this?"

The light "whoosh,--sst--whoosh" of the dipping paddles, the
occasional rattle of a handle on a gunwale, formed a blending
background against which his low words were distinguishable only to the
girl beside him.

She looked long into his upturned face. The wistfulness sat heavy upon
it. The youthfulness of this dashing trapper of the posts and
settlements came out plain in the starlight. She saw again the pliant
strength beneath the slender grace, caught the suggestion of
contradicting forces that she had felt one day in Marie's doorway when
young Dupre swung up the main way of Fort de Seviere, and beneath it
all she saw that which had caused her to say on that first morning of
the long trail when he faced her in the hidden cove, "Would it had been
given me to love you, M'sieu!"

All this passed through her aching heart, and presently she said with a
little catch in her deep voice,

"What awaits a man like this? A man who has done all these things and
who speaks of their folly, who thinks of God in the nighttimes, whose
heart turns with longing to that land behind the stars, and who
gives,"--she paused a moment,--"I cannot say the rest,--But--but--Oh,
there awaits this man the smile of that Christ of the Seven Scars, the
loving tears of Our Lady of Sorrows, the very grace of the Good God!"

"Truly,--Ma'amselle?" asked Marc Dupre wistfully, "in your heart--not
out of its goodness?"

"In my heart of hearts I think this, M'sieu."

They fell silent for a long time, while the stars travelled with them
in the broken water and the ripples lapped and sucked at the shores and
the swift stream hurried to the bay.

At length the trapper tentatively raised his hand and touched the bare
arm of Maren where it shone brown beneath the white of the fringed
sleeve.

"I thank you for those words, Ma'amselle," he said simply; "they are
healing as the Confessional to my ragged soul."



CHAPTER XXI TIGHTENED SCREWS

"M'sieu," said De Courtenay, "what think you? It would seem that
something stirs in this camp of squaws and old men. Gaiety and festive
garb appear. Behold yonder brave with a double allowance of painted
feathers and more animation than seems warrantable. What's to do?"

The man was worn to the bone with the day's work, yet the old
brilliance played whimsically in his eyes. This day a wearing burden of
skin packs had been added to the canoe, ladening it to the water's lip,
and the vicious prodding from behind had been in consequence of
redoubled vigour.

McElroy, reclining beside him on his face,--to lie on his back was
unbearable,--to one side of the camp, looked at the scene before them.

Surely it seemed as if something was toward.

Here and there among the Indians appeared strangers. More Bois-Brules,
lean half-breeds more to be feared than any Indian from the Mandane
country to the polar regions, decked half after the manner of white man
and savage, all more animated than was the wont of these sullen Runners
of the Burnt Woods, they passed back and forth among the fires, and
presently McElroy caught the gleam of liquid that shone like rubies or
topaz in the evening light.

"Aha!" he said, "these Bois-Brules that have joined our captors appear
to have had dealings with the whites. Yonder is the source of your
discovered animation. Whiskey, as I live, and circling fast among the
braves. It bodes ill for us, my friend."

"So? Why so?"

"Because never was redskin yet who could hold fire-water and himself at
the same time. No matter how determined they are to reach their
stamping-ground before the ceremonies of our despatch, their
determination will evaporate like morning mists before the sun in the
warmth of the spirit, or I know not Indian nature. Prepare for
something, M'sieu."

As the evening fell and the fires leaped against the darkness, sounds
increased in the camp. Groups of warriors gathered and broke, voices
rose; and shrill yells began to cut above the melee of the noise.

From time to time a brave would come running out of the bustle and,
stopping near, glare ferociously at the captives. Twice a hatchet came
flittering through the firelight, its bright blade flashing as it
circled, to fall perilously close, and several times a squaw or two
prodded one or the other with a moccasined toe.

Once a young brave, his black eyes alight with devilishncss, sprang out
from the bushes behind and caught McElroy's face in a pinching clasp of
fingers. With one bound the factor was on his feet and had dealt the
stripling a blow which sent him sprawling with his oiled head in a
squaw's fire. Instantly his long feather was ablaze and his yelp of
dismay brought forth a storm of derisive yells of laughter.

McElroy sat quietly down again.

"It has begun, M'sieu," he said grimly.

All night the liquor circled among the savages, as the spirit fired the
brains in their narrow skulls the aproar became worse. A huge fire was
built in the centre of the camp, tom-toms placed beside it in the hands
of old men, and, forming in a giant circle, the braves began a dance.

At first it was the stamp-dance*, harmless enough, with bending forms
and palms extended to the central fire and the ceaseless "Ah-a, ah-a-a,
ah-a," capable of a thousand intonations and the whole gamut of
suggestion and portent, blood-chilling in its slow excitement.

*I have witnessed this.--V. R.


Without the circle the squaws fought and quarrelled over the portion of
liquor doled out to them by their lords, and their clamour was worse
than the rest.

No sleep came to the two white men lying at the foot of a tree to the
west of the camp, with a guard pacing slowly between them and liberty.

Instead, thoughts were seething like dalle's foam in the mind of each.

If only this giant guard might drink deep enough of the libations of
the others,--who knew?--there might be the faint chance of escape for
which they had watched ceaselessly since leaving Red River.

But, with the irony of fate, this one Indian became the model warrior
of the tribe. As the confusion and uproar grew in intensity, one after
another joined the dancing circle, until it seemed that every brave in
the camp was leaping around the fire. Blue-eyed Indians, Bois-Brules,
Nakonkirhirinons, they circled and uttered the monotonous "Ah-a, ah-a,"
and in the light could be seen the white lock on the temple of Bois
DesCaut.

"I should have killed him long ago," thought McElroy simply, "as one
kills a wolf,--for the good of the settlement."

As they lay watching the unearthly orgy at the fire a plan slowly took
shape in McElroy's mind. They were unbound as they had been for many
days, the silent guard proving sufficient surety for their retention,
and they were two to one in the wild confusion of the growing
excitement. What easier than a swift grapple in the dusk, one man
locked in combat with the sentinel and one lost in the forest and the
night? It was a desperate chance, but they were desperate men with the
post, the hatchet, and the matete before them. As the thought grew it
took on proportions of possibility and the factor threw up his head
with the old motion, shaking out of his eyes the falling sun-burnt
hair.

"M'sieu," he said, in a low voice, carefully modulated to the careless
tone of weary speech which was their habit of nights; "M'sieu, I have a
plan."

The cavalier looked up quickly.

"Ah!" he said; "a plan? Of what,--conduct at the stake? The etiquette
of the ceremony of the Feast of Flame?"

"Peace!" replied McElroy sternly; "you jest, M'sieu. We are in sore
straits and a drowning man snatches at straws. It is this. The fire of
liquor is rising out there. Hear it in the rising note of the blended
voices. How long, think you, will they be content with the dance and
the chanting, the tom-toms and the empty fire? How long before we are
dragged in, to be the centre of affairs? In this plan of mine there is
room for one of us, a bare chance of escape. This guard behind,--he is
a powerful man, but, with every warrior wild in the circling mass
yonder, he might be engaged for the moment needed for one to dart into
the darkness and take to the river. Once there, the mercy of night and
bending bushes might aid him. What think you?"

"Truly 'tis worth the try. My blood answers the risk. At the most it
would but hasten things. But give the word and we'll at it."

"Nay,--we must understand each other, lest we bungle. As the plan was
mine, I take the choice of parts. There is a stain upon my conscience,
M'sieu." McElroy spoke simply from his heart, as was his wont.
"Throughout this long journey it has lain heavy. Though I hold against
you one grave offence, yet I grieve deeply that it was through my hasty
anger you were brought to such sorry plight. As I am at fault, so would
I heal that fault. This the way I find given me. When I spring for our
friend of the painted feather, do you, M'sieu, waiting for nothing,
take to the bush with all the speed there is in you. And before we part
know that, were we free, I would punish you as man to man for that
moment before the gate of De Seviere with all pleasure."

"Ah! You refer to Ma'amselle Le Moyne? By what right?"

"By the right of love, whose advances were more than half-reciprocated
before the advent of your accursed red flowers,--the right of man to
fight for his woman."

"Nom de Dieu!" De Courtenay threw back his head and laughed, the flecks
of light from the fire flittering across his handsome features. "You
speak a lost cause, my friend! She was mine since that first morning by
your well when the high head bent to my hand. What a woman she is,--
Maid of the Long Trail, Spirit of the Woods and Lakes! A lioness with a
dove's heart! I have seen the Queen of the World in this God-forsaken
wilderness; therefore is it worth while."

"Stop!" cried McElroy sharply; "let the old wound be. Only make ready
to act at once."

"Aye,--I am ready now."

"Then rise with me,--swiftly as possible,--when I count to three. One--
"

The two men strained their bodies, leaning forward, for both had risen
to sit facing the fire when the dance began.

"Two,--" breathed McElroy, "ready, M'sieu,--three!"

With one accord they leaped to their feet, and the factor in a flash
was upon the Indian just passing behind him. He had leaped high, for
the Nakonkirhirinon was taller than a common man, and he clutched the
muscled neck in a grasp of steel, pressing his shoulder against his
adversary's face, to still the outcry he knew would come.

The orgy at the fire was lifting its tone of riot into one of savagery
and menace, the tom-toms beat more swiftly with gaining excitement, and
the yapping yells were growing more frequent.

It was an auspicious moment and the heart of McElroy throbbed with a
savage pleasure, but suddenly he felt other hands disputing his grip on
the astonished Indian, who was raining blows upon him having dropped his
gun in the first shock. Over the bare shoulder of the warrior, shining
like bronze in a gleam of light, he saw the face of De Courtenay, its
blue eyes alight.

In a flash his grip was torn from behind, and, as the Indian reared his
head and threw back his great shoulders, lifting him clear of the earth,
he heard the joyous voice of the cavalier.

"Run!" it cried, as he fell clear; "run! And tell Maren Le Moyne that
her name is last upon my lips,--her face last before--"

Out above the words there rang the shrill cry of the guard, his mouth
uncovered by McElroy's shaking off.

The Indian had whirled and grappled with De Courtenay, and, before
McElroy could tear him loose, fighting like a madman, out from the
yelling circle there poured an avalanche of lunatics, jerked from
Gehenna by that ringing cry.

Foremost was Bois DesCaut, his evil eyes glinting like a witch's omen.

Yelling, jumping, flaming with the liquor of the Bois-Brules, they fell
upon the two men and dragged them, half-falling, half-running, toward
the circle, into it, and up to the fire.

"Ho-ho! ho-ho-o! Ha-ha! ha-ha-a! ha-ha!"

Faces wild as the devil's dreams pushed close, hands plucked at them,
and suddenly a dozen painted braves caught up handfuls of live coals
and flung them upon them.

In the midst of it McElroy looked stupidly at De Courtenay.

"For the love of God!" he said, "why did you not run?"

"Why didn't you?"

The cavalier was laughing.

"I could not, M'sieu," he added; "the charm of the hazard was too
great."

And that was the last word he offered the man who would have delivered
him, turning to face the savages.

"Dogs!" he cried in French; "dogs and sons of dogs!"

Stooping suddenly, he snatched a horned headdress from the crown of an
aged medicine man, scooped it full of glowing brands, and tossed its
contents straight into the wild faces before him.

Then he straightened, crossed his arms, and smiled upon them in
contempt.

Pandemonium was loose.

In breathless swiftness the captives were stripped to the skin, tied
hand and foot, and fastened to stakes set hastily up on either side the
fire.

"It begins to look, M'sieu," called De Courtenay, across the space and
the roaring flames, "as if the Nor'westers and the Hudson's Bays must
scratch up a new wintering partner and a fresh factor,--though, 'ods
blood! this one is fresh enough! Will they cure us as as they have
Negansahima?"

At mention of the dead chief a dozen missiles cut the night air and
struck the speaker. One, a lighted torch, landed full in his face, and
McElroy groaned aloud.

If De Courtenay hoped by his taunts and his jeers to reach a swifter
end, he was mistaken in that hope. No fire was kindled at their stakes,
no sudden stroke of death maul or tomahawk followed his words. The
Nakonkirhirinons had keener tortures, torments of a finer fibre than
mere physical suffering, and the Bois-Brules' liquor had stirred the
hidden resources.

Again the dancing commenced, but this time it was not the harmless
measure of the stamp-dance. Instead of the bending bodies, the rhythmic
stamping of soft-shod feet, the extended palms, there were unspeakable
leapings, writhings, and grimaces revolting in their horror,
brandishing of knives, and yelling that was incessant.

McElroy closed his eyes and forced his mind to the Petition for Mercy.

Through the tenor of the beautiful words there cut from time to time De
Courtenay's voice, cool, contemptuous, a running fire of invective, now
in French, now in English, and again in the Assiniboine tongue, which
was familiar to the Nakonkirhirinons, they being friends with that
tribe.

As the hubbub rose with the liquor two slabs were brought, rough
sections of trees hastily smoothed with axe and hatchet, of the height
of a man and the thickness thereof, with a slight margin at top and
sides. These were set up behind the stakes that held them, thus forming
a background, and the two naked forms stood out in the firelight like
pictures in white frames.

A wise old sachem, hideously painted, drew a line on the ground at
thirty feet, facing the central fire, and with a bony finger picked out
a certain number of warriors.

Full fifty there seemed to McElroy when he opened his eyes to see them
ranged before the line, all armed with knives that shone in the glow,
and (grim irony of fate!) in the blades of some there was a familiar
stamp--H. B. C.!

"Ah! Yuagh!" called the sachem, and two young men stepped forward, toe
on the line, glanced each at a framed picture, drew up an arm, and,
"Whut-t-t t-e-e-p," whined two knives that flittered through the light
and struck quivering, one with its cool kiss on McElroy's cheek, the
other just in the edge of the slab at De Courtenay's shoulder.

A shout of derision greeted this throw, and two more took the place of
the retiring braves, this time a Runner of the Burnt Woods, wearing the
garments of the white man, but smeared with bars of red and yellow
paint across the cheeks, and a white renegade.

"A Nor'wester's man once," thought McElroy; "another DesCaut."

Again the "whut-t" of the whimpering blades, again the little impact in
the wood behind, this time with more indifferent aim; for never was
white man yet who sank or rose to Indian level in the matter of spear
or tomahawk.

They were brave men, these two, and they faced the singing knives
without a quiver of muscle, a droop of eye, while the joy of the
savages, at last turned loose, rose and rose in its wildness.

For an hour the mob at the line threw and shifted, the vast circle
sitting or standing in every attitude of keenest enjoyment. The slabs
bristled with steel, to be cleaned and decorated anew, while the fire
in the centre leaped and crackled with an hundred voices.

A stone's-throw away the grim tepee of the dead chief glimmered now out
of the shadow, now in, and to the east behind a rocky bluff, through
which led a narrow gorge, the river hurried to the north.

Blood-painted brilliant splotches here and there against the white
pictures, but neither man was limp in his bonds, neither fair head
drooped, neither pair of blue eyes flinched. De Courtenay's long curls
hung like cords of gold against his bare shoulder, enhancing the great
beauty of him, while his brilliant smile flashed with uncanny
steadiness. McElroy's face was grave, lips tight, eyes narrow, and
forehead furrowed with the thought he strove in vain to make
connected.

Suddenly every shade of colour drained out of his countenance, leaving
it white as the virgin slab behind.

On the outskirts of the concourse, just at the edge of shadow and
light, Edmonton Ridgar stood apart and the look on his face was of
mortal agony. As his eyes met those of his factor all doubt was swept
away. This was his friend, McElroy knew in that one swift moment, even
as he watched his torture, his friend on whose faith and goodness he
would stake his soul anew. It was strange what a keen joy surged
through him with that subtle knowledge, what smart of tear-mist stung
his eyes.

Long their gaze clung, filled with unspeakable things, things that were
high as Heaven itself, that pass only between men clean of heart on the
Calvaries of earth.

Then, as gleaming eyes began to follow the fixed look of McElroy, heads
to turn with waving of feathers on scalp-locks, the factor with an
effort took his eyes from Ridgar's.

"Dog-eaters!" De Courtenay was laughing. "Birds of carrion! Old men!
Squaws of the North!"

And above the hubbub the ritual chanting in his brain turned into an
Act of Thanksgiving.



CHAPTER XXII "CHOOSE, WHITE WOMAN!"

Another day had gone into the great back country of time, from which
the hand of God alone can pluck them and their secrets. Soft haze of
blue and gold hung over forest and stream, sweet breath of summer
fondled the high carpet of interlaced tree-tops, blew down the waters
and wimpled the bending grasses, and the wolf had sighted the caribou
herd.

In a shelter of spruce within sight of the Indian smoke the lone canoe
and its people lay hidden, awaiting the coming of night.

"Now, Ma'amselle," said Dupre earnestly, "do you remain close here with
Frith and Wilson and Alloybeau while Brilliers and McDonald go with me
to reconnoitre."

Maren knelt beside a fallen log binding up the heavy ropes of her hair.
Before her were spread the meagre adjuncts of her toilet, in all
conscience slim enough for any masculine runner of the forest,--a
dozen little pegs hand-whittled from hard wood and polished to finest
gloss by contact with the shining braids.

She looked up at him with eyes that were unreadable to his simple
understanding.

"Remain?" she said; "and send you into my danger alone? You know me
not, M'sieu."

Purple dusk was thick upon the underworld of lesser growth beneath the
towering woods. In its half-light the trapper saw that her face,
usually of so sad a calm, was glowing with excitement.

"Brilliers," she said, rising and fastening the last strand, "bring me
the brown no-wak-wa berries from the pail yonder."

She stood crushing the ripe fruit in her hands and looked into the
faces of her little band. In every countenance she read what she had
read in men's faces all of her life, the dumb longing to serve, and it
lifted her heart with tenderness.

"My men," she said presently, "remember we are Hudson's Bays, and that
we have behind us the Great Company which punishes guilt and upholds
loyalty, and that we go to rescue a factor of the Company. Alloybeau
and McDonald go with me, flanking either side. You, Frith, take up
position a hundred yards inland to cover what retreat may happen.
Wilson and Brilliers stand at the canoe, and, M'sieus, keep hand at
prow ready for instant action. We know not what may happen. I, who am
most concerned, go first. You, Marc Dupre, go with me."

Her voice dropped as it ever did of late when she spoke to this good
friend.

"And now we wait only for full darkness."

"You must go, Ma'amselle?" said Alloybeau miserably. "Cannot another
make the first scouting? Send me."

"And me!" Frith pushed softly forward. "At the last, Ma'amselle, we are
old women. We cannot let you go."

"Cannot?" said Maren sharply. "Do Mr. Mowbray's men so soon forget his
orders? I am good as a man, M'sieus. See!"

She held up her right arm, with the fringed sleeve falling loose. The
muscle sprang up magnificently.

"Fear not for me,--and yet,--I thank you! Now we wait."

One hour,--two,--passed and the last light crept, afraid, out of the
forest to linger a trembling moment on the waters and be drawn up to
the darkening sky.

At last the maid arose, tall and quiet, save for the excitement in her
eyes, and one by one her chosen followers stepped noiselessly after.

Silent as the wood around, the forlorn hope crept forward.

"Here, Frith," commanded Maren, when they had reached a vantage point
of higher ground, "and here you, Alloybeau and McDonald, separate. If
during this night the good God shall deliver into our hands Mr. McElroy
and the venturer from Montreal, you will hear a panther's far-off call.
Make for the canoe, for that will mean swift flight. If, on the other
hand, aught should befall us ahead, a night-hawk will cry once. Hide
and wait. Wait one day, two, three. There is always hope. So. We go
now."

Thus they separated, that small band, as hopeless together as apart in
case of discovery, and at last Dupre followed alone, his heart heavy
within him and a grip in his throat of tears. On through the leafy
forest, parting the lacing vines, holding each branch that it might not
swish to place, they went, far from safety and the commonplace of life,
and a prescience of disaster weighed on the trapper's soul like lead.

At last it grew more than he could bear, and he reached a hand to
Maren's shoulder, a tentative hand, hesitating, as if it felt its touch
blasphemy.

"Ma'amselle," he faltered, "forgive me! But, oh! without confession
this night I am sick to my heart's core! I lied to you back at the
cove, though with a clean conscience, for it is love,--love of a man
warm and wild that tears my soul to tatters! I love you with all love,
of saint and sinner, of Heaven and earth, and I would have you know
it!"

His low voice was shaking, as was his whole slim body, and Maren felt
it in the hand on her shoulder.

"As a man, Ma'amselle, I would give my life for one touch of your lips!
As a lost monk I would kiss your garment's hem! See!"

He dropped to his knee and, catching her beaded skirt, pressed it to
his lips again and again, passionately, swept away by his French blood.

"As I live I love you as the dog loves his master! I am naught save the
dust under your feet, the thorn you brush in the forest, yet like them
I catch and cling! Forgive, Ma'amselle, and if the future is fair for
you, think sometimes in the dusk of Marc Dupre!"

"Hush!" said Maren, catching the hand at her knee, a shaking hand more
slender than her own; "hush, my friend! You break my heart anew. I know
the inmost grace of you, the glory of the love you tell, and be it of
heaven or earth, of angel or man, I would to the Good God there was yet
life enough within me to buy it with my own! I have seen naught so
holy, so worth all price, in the years of my life. It is dear to my
heart as that life itself. Dear as yourself, my more than friend."

In all tenderness she stooped from her fair height and laid her arm
around the shoulders of the youth, drew his head against the beadwork
of McElroy's gift, and kissed him upon the lips,--once, twice,
yearningly, as a mother kisses a weakling child.

At that moment there came, borne on a waking breeze of the night, the
sound of the tom-toms, the yapping of many throats.

"The gods beckon," she said sadly; "this life and love is all awry and
we who are bound against our will must but abide the end."

"Aye," whispered young Dupre, from the warm depths of her shoulder, and
his voice was like gold for joy; "aye,--the end."

He rose swiftly.

"Forgive the passion that could forget the great business of the
night," he said, and they went forward, though Maren's fingers still
rested in his clasp.

Through the thinning wood which neared the stream presently there came
a glow and then the shine of a great fire ahead, with massed figures
that leaped and sprang, fantastic as a witch's carnival, and a roar of
frightful voices.

"Stay now, Ma'amselle!" begged Dupre, at last, for he had caught a
sight that shook him through and through; "stay you here in the wood
while I go forward!"

But his protest was lost on the maid. Eagerly she was pushing on, hid
by the shadows,--nearer and nearer, until suddenly she stopped and
stared upon the scene, the fingers in his clasp gripping Dupre's hand
like steel.

"God! God! God!" breathed Maren Le Moyne at the forest's edge as she
looked once more upon the face of the factor of Fort de Seviere.

Unspeakable was that scene. All reason had fled from the North savages.

What small veneer of docility had been spread over them by their three
years' dealing with the Hudson's Bays and their intercourse with the
quiet and tractable Assiniboines, had vanished. They were themselves as
nature made them, cruel to the point of art.

The work of the day was visible upon the captives tied to their stakes
on either side the fire. Half-clothed, for they had been thrown into a
lodge to recuperate for the night's festivities, they stood in
weariness, that from time to time drooped one head or the other, only
to lift again with taunt and jeer.

De Courtenay, his thin face between the curls thinner, was still facing
the mob with the smile that would not down. McElroy was as Maren had
ever known him, patient and strong, and from time to time he tossed up
the light hair falling in his eyes.

"We are none too soon," she said tensely; "tonight it must end. Go you
around to the east, M'sieu, between the camp and the river. Look for
the lodge of the dead chief, for there will be the trader, Ridgar. Look
for him and read his face,--whether or no he will help us. I will skirt
to the north."

"I--Ma'amselle! Stay far from their sight, for love of Heaven!"

"Sh! Go, my friend;" and Maren turned into the darkness.

"Mary Mother, now do thou befriend!" she whispered, as she felt her way
forward. With touch of tree trunk and slipping moccasin, lithe bend and
sway and turning, as sure in the forest as any savage, this Maid of the
Trail took into her hands the saving of a man. It was simple. Wit must
play the greater part, wit that invades a sleeping camp, risks its
life, and laughs at its victory. So would she work in the late hours
when revelry had worked its own undoing. Now she would learn the camp
and the safest side of it, the place of the captives and a way of
escape. With thought and eager plan she pushed from her mind the look
of McElroy's body.

She would--

In the darkness she stopped with inheld breath. Her groping foot had
touched an object, a soft object that stirred and rolled over on its
side and presently sat up. So near it was that she could feel the
movements of its garments, which fact told her it was human.

Then, without warning, a hand shot out and caught her knee in a grip of
steel. With all her strength the girl tore away, leaping backward. But
a tangle of vines snatched at her foot and she fell crashing forward
with a figure prone upon her, and in the darkness she fought silently
for life.

As in the camp of the Nakonkirhirinons the thin veneer had slipped
away, so now in the forest its heavier counterpart fell from this woman
and she turned savage as the thing with which she fought.

Of superb stature and strength, she was a match for the man, and two
pairs of hands searched for a throat, two bodies strained and struggled
for the mastery. It seemed that the noise of the conflict, the snapping
of dry dead wood, the swish and crash of leafy brush, must draw
attention from the camp, but it was too engrossed in its own mad
hilarity to heed so small a sound.

Over and over strained the strangely-met foes in silence, and presently
they struggled up, barehanded, face to face, for Maren had dropped her
rifle when she fell. As they whirled into a more open space the light
from the fire struck through the foliage and glistened on a tuft of
white hair on the swarthy temple before her.

"Hola! DesCaut!" gasped the girl.

"Oho! I win!"

For, with the sudden illumination, she forgot for a moment the present
and DesCaut; for it was the turncoat awaked from a drunken sleep apart,
who pushed swiftly forward, took the moment's advantage of her
hesitation, and pinioned her arms to her sides.

She might still have had a chance, for she was as strong as he, but
that he raised his voice in a call for help.

Thus it was that, in less time than the telling, Maren Le Moyne,
rescuer, leader of the long trail, was dragged, fast bound by a dozen
gripping hands, into the firelit space in the great circle, a captive
under the eyes of the man she had come to save.

Stumbling, jerked this way and that, one white shoulder gleaming
against the brown stain of throat and face where the doeskin garment
was pulled awry, she came into the central space before the great fire.

Every inch an Indian woman she looked, with the no-wak-wa berries
darkening her bright cheeks, her moccasins and beaded garment belted
with wampum got from the Indians by Henri, save for one thing, no
Indian woman in all the wilderness wrapped her braids around her head
and pinned them with whittled pegs. There alone had she blundered.

As the renegades loosed her and dropped away, leaving her alone in the
appalling light, for one instant she flung her hands over her face.

The quick disaster stunned her.

There was no longer hope within her for the moment. But, with the rise
of the roar of triumph, that part of her nature which joyed in the
facing of odds snatched down her hands, lifted her head, and set the
old fires sparkling in her eyes.

"White! White! White!" was the cry lifting on all sides. "A white woman
of the Settlements! Wis-kend-jac has sent the White Doe! A sign! A
sign! The Great Spirit would know the slayer of Negansahima!"

"The White Doe shall choose!"



CHAPTER XXIII THE PAINTED POST

When McElroy's eyes fell upon the woman he loved the breath was stopped
in his throat. For a moment it seemed he would suffocate with the surge
of emotions that choked him. Then a great sigh filled his lungs and a
cry was forced from him which pierced the uproar like an arrow.

"Maren!" he cried, in anguish; "Maren!"

It drew her eyes as the pole the faithful needle, and across the fire
they stared wide-eyed at each other.

Then De Courtenay's silver voice cut them apart.

"Again, Ma'amselle!" he cried, with the old magic of his smile. "Do you
bring by any chance a red flower to the council of the Nakonkirhirinons?"

But the Indians closed in around her, pulling and plucking at her with
eager fingers, and they saw her fighting among them like a man.

McElroy for the first time loosed his tongue in blasphemy and cursed
like a madman, tugging at the bonds which held him.

"'Tis all in a day's march, M'sieu," said De Courtenay, "and the sweet
spirit of Ma'amselle is like to cross the Styx with us."

But for the first time, also, there was in his tone a note of
weariness, a breath of sadness that sang under the light words with
infinite pathos.

The new attraction drew the crowd, and the old ones were left in
solitude, while the Nakonkirhirinons surged and scrambled for a look at
the white woman fallen from a clear sky, leagues from where they had
seen her. Half-breeds, dissolute renegades, and Indians, they pushed
and peered and in many a face was already burning the excitement of her
beauty, especially those of the savage Bois-Brules.

McElroy prayed aloud to God for the heavens to fall, for some great
disaster.

But soon it became apparent that something of importance was to take
place. A hundred headmen gathered in knots and there was dissension and
brawling and once near a riot, while the girl stood in a circle of
malodorous, leering humans with her back against a tree, warding off
hands with man-like blows.

There was no order in the tribe. Negansahima, whose iron hand had ruled
with power and justice above the average, was dead. The new chief had
not yet come into power with fitting ceremony, and thus the old men of
the tribe were for the moment authority, and, as too many cooks spoil
the broth, so too many rulers breed dissension.

But finally a conclusion was reached.

A hundred hands scurried into preparation and the shouts were filled
with anticipation.

In the open space a post was set up, tall as a man's head and some two
feet thick, adzed flat on one side and painted in two sections,
perpendicularly, one half in red, the other in black. A medicine man,
hideous in adornments of buffalo horns and bearskin, approached De
Courtenay and with a feather painted on his bare breast a circle of
black with little red flames within.

McElroy was decorated in like manner, save that his circle was red and
it enclosed a death-maul, a dozen little arrows, and two knives.

Thus was foreshadowed the manner of their death.

Then arose a babble of voices.

"The White Doe! The White Doe that runs in the forest! Now shall She
who Follows decide!"

And into the midst of the vast circle once more Maren Le Moyne was
brought. She stood panting as they drew back and left her, and McElroy
looked upon her as he had never looked upon living being in all his
days.

There was the same high head, shining in the light, the same tall form
sweet in its rounded womanhood, the same strong shoulders, and from
them hung the white garment that he had carried to her door that day,
in spring. He had wondered then if he would ever see it cling to the
swelling breast, set up the round throat from its foamy fringe. And
thus he saw it again as he had dreamed, though, Holy Mother! in what
sad plight!

She had told him she would wear it. She had relied upon it to help her
get to De Courtenay! Of what depth and glory must be the love that sent
her after the savages! Even in the stress of the moment the old pain
came back an hundredfold. But events went forward and he had soon no
time to think.

They drew a line upon the earth as they had done before, squabbling
over its distance from the painted post; Bois-Brules, their keen eyes
gleaming, haggling for a greater stretch, and presently Maren stood
upon that line and they had pressed into her hand a bright new hatchet,
one of those bought from McElroy himself in the first days of trading.

Then an Indian, naked and painted like a fiend, whose toes turned out,
stepped forth and spoke in good English.

"Woman Who Follows," he said distinctly, "one of these two dogs is a
murderer,--having killed the Great Chief when his people came in peace
to trade at the Fort. Therefore, one of them must die. The
Nakonkirhirinons take a skin for a skin,--not two skins for one. So did
the Great Chief teach his people. But none know which hand is red with
his blood. For two sleeps and a sun have the braves given them the
tests,--the Test of the Flying Knives, the Test of the Pine Splinters,
the Test of the Little Lines, but neither has shown Colour of the Dog's
Blood. Therefore, justice waits. Now has Wiskend-jac, the Great Spirit,
sent the White Doe from the forest to decide. Throw, White Woman, and
where the tomahawk strikes shall Death sit. Hi-a-wo!"

The renegade stepped back and a silence like death itself fell upon the
assembly.

Then did the colour drain out of the soft cheeks under the berry stain
and the girl from Grand Portage stand fingering the bright hatchet in
her hand. Her eyes went to McElroy's face and then to that of the
cavalier leaning forward between his swinging curls, and both men saw
the shine that was like light behind black marble, so mystic was it and
thrilling, beginning to flicker in them.

"Bravo!" cried De Courtenay, his brilliant face aglow with the splendid
hazard. "Bravo! We are akin, Ma'amselle,--both venturers, and my blood
leaps to your spirit! Throw, Sweetheart, throw! And may the gods of
Chance guide your hand!"

"Think not of me, Maren!" cried McElroy, in deadly earnest. "You owe me
naught! Throw for M'sieu, whose peril is my doing!"

For many moments she stood so, fingering the white handle of the
weapon, and there was no sound in all the vast assemblage save the
crackle of the flames. Then they saw her muscles tauten throughout her
whole young body, saw her draw herself up to her full height, and again
for a second's space she stood still. In that moment she had
deliberately put herself back in the surging turmoil of Grand Portage,
was listening to the words of old Pierre Vernaise: "Well done, Little
Maid! Again now! Into the cleft! Into the cleft! Ah-a! Little One, well
done! Alas, but you beat your old teacher!"--was feeling again the
surge of a childhood triumph which scorned to bring nearer that
wilderness of her dreams.

With a swift motion her arm shot up and forward and the tomahawk left
her hand, flying straight as an arrow for the target. It struck with a
clean impact and stood, the handle a little raised and the point well
set in the green wood. There was a rush of the medicine men, who seemed
to act as judges, and then a silence. Peering, bending near to look
closer, they gathered with confusion of voices and presently stepped
back, that all might see.

Neither in black nor red, but directly between the two, the blade
cleaved cleanly down the dividing-line.

They surged forward, gathering round like flies with buzzing and
excitement, examining it from all sides, while the girl stood upon the
line with her hands shut hard beside her.

She did not glance again at the two men beside the fire.

A sachem pulled out the hatchet and carried it back to her, while the
circle formed and widened again.

Again she stood at poise, again they saw the tension of her body, again
the little wait, while the two men held their breath and De Courtenay's
eyes were shining like stars.

"A fitting close!" he was saying to himself, in that joy which was of
his venturer's soul and knew not time or place. "Heart of my Life! What
a close to a merry span!"

Again the swift, sure motion, unmeasured of the brain, coming out of
habit and pure instinct, again the "thud" of the strike, again the
rush, and again the wondering buzz of talk.

Once more the hatchet stood upon the line between the black and the
red, directly in its own cleft!

There was wondering comment, gesticulation, and swarthy faces turned
upon the woman on the line.

Once more the sachem in his waving feathers and tinkling ornaments drew
the blade from the post and gravely carried it back to her.

Excitement was riding high in the eager faces bending forward on all
sides, and everywhere a growing admiration. A tribe of prowess
themselves, the Nakonikirhirinons knew a clever feat when they saw it.

For the third time the tall woman in the beaded garment took the
hatchet and squared her shoulders.

"What does it mean?" McElroy was thinking wildly; "why does she not
save him while there is time?" And, even as the words went through his
brain, something snapped therein and he was conscious of the circle of
faces in the forest edge waving in grotesque undulations, of the arm of
Maren as it straightened forward, of the flash of the hatchet as it
flew for the painted post, and then of great darkness sewn with a
thousand stars.

As Maren had raised her hand for the throw, from somewhere out of the
darkness behind the fire a stone death-maul had hurtled, aimed at her
wrist, but he who threw was sorry of sight as a drunken man, for it
struck the head of McElroy instead and he sagged down against the
moosehide thongs, even as the hatchet once more clicked snugly in its
former cleft.

Then from all the concourse there went up a shout, half in anger and
half in wild applause.

"Nik-o-men-wa!" they cried; "the Thrower of the Seven Tribes! But the
White Doe plays with the decree of Gitche Manitou! Bring the spear!
Fetch forth the spears, oh, Men of Wisdom!"

But in the midst of the excitement a figure walked slowly forth in the
light and held up a hand for silence.

It was Edmonton Ridgar.

Reluctantly they obeyed, sullenly, as if bound by a bond against their
will.

In the sudden hush he spoke.

"What do ye here, my brothers?" he asked, and waited.

There was no reply from the mass before him.

"Wherefore is the spirit of my Father vexed that it disturbs my watch
inside the death-lodge?"

The small rustling of the excited crowd ceased in every quarter.

They stilled themselves in a peculiar manner.

"Oh, ye sachems and Men of Wisdom," he said, turning to the headmen
gathered together, "come ye to the tepee of Negansahima and behold what
ye have done!"

Slowly, as he had come, the chief trader of De Seviere turned about and
passed out of the light. One by one, in utter silence, their faces
changed in a moment into masks of uneasiness, the sachems and medicine
men rose and followed. In the wavering shadows thrown by the central
fire the big tepee stood in awesome majesty. Ridgar raised the flap and
entered, dropping it as the savages filed in to the number of all it
would hold.

"See!" he said dramatically.

Over the bier of piled skins which held the wrapped and smoke-dried
figure of the dead chief there danced upon the darkness, eerie in pale-
green living fire, the ghost of the crested and sweeping head-dress
that he had worn in life.

There was never a word among them, but, with one accord, after one awe-
struck look at the ghostly thing, they fled the lodge in a mass.

For several moments Ridgar stood in the darkness as those outside
peered fearfully in, and, when the last moccasin had slipped silently
away, he reached up and took down the fearsome thing, folding it beside
the chief.

"We were wise together, old friend," he said sadly; "would I had your
knowledge and your power."

Outside the word was spreading wildly.

"The spirit of Negansahima rests not in the lodge! The medicine men
have not dreamed true! Silence in the camp while They who Dream repair
to the forest fastnesses and seek true wisdom!"

And while the sachems and the headmen, the beaters of the tom-toms, and
those who tended the Sacred fires of the Dreamers formed into
procession and slowly filed out into the forest, Edmonton Ridgar drew a
long breath of relief. Maren had postponed the sure culmination of the
tests by her clever feat, he had postponed it a little longer by his
own. Full well he knew that the girl could not go on forever after the
manner of her beginning. She knew the hatchet, but would she know the
spear, the arrow, and the Test of the Flaming Ring? .Sooner or later
she would fail, and then would come the last orgy of the rites of a
Skin for a Skin. He thought of the whimsical fate which so oddly gave
the "Pro pelle cutem" of the H. B. C. to this unknown tribe of the
North, and flayed one with the other.

This night was the last wherein there lay one chance of help for the
two men and this woman who had so strangely followed from the post, and
he lay in the darkness of the death-lodge watching the hushing of the
camp, the loosing of the captives, the carrying of his factor, a limp
figure, to the lodge of captives on the edge, the leading thither of De
Courtenay and Maren.

"Fool woman!" he said in his heart; "sweet, brave, loving fool with the
woman's heart and the man's simple courage!"



CHAPTER XXIV THE STONE TO THE FOOT OF LOVE

Long Ridgar lay in the darkness listening to the hushed sounds that
came from lodge and dying fire--vague, awed sounds, that presently died
into silence as night took toll of humanity and sleep settled among the
savages.

Here and there low gutturals droned into the stillness, and at the west
there was oath and whispered comment where the Bois-Brules camped
together. Not wholly under the spell of mystery were these half-breeds,
but restless and suspicious under the conflicting promptings of their
mixed blood. Slower than the Indians were they to obey the mandate of
silence and peace that the Spirits of Dreams might descend upon the
forest, but at last they were quiet, the tires burned down to red heaps
of coals, then to white ashes, the great fire in the centre flamed and
died and flamed again like some vindictive spirit striving for
vengeance in the grip of death, and the utter stillness of the solitude
fell thick as a garment on all the wilderness. It seemed to Ridgar that
only himself in all the earth was awake and watching, save perhaps the
two guards pacing without a sound the lodge of the captives, and those
two within, so oddly brought near.

As for McElroy, his friend of friends, an aching fear tugged in his
heart that he had waited too long for the chance to help, that the
patient strength was sapped at last, that the end had come. He had seen
the flight of the maul, the sagging of the sturdy figure.

Who had thrown it, if not that brute DesCaut? Who save DesCaut was so
keen on the trail of the factor and the girl? True, De Courtenay was
his latest master, and his spoiling of Maren's aim might as easily send
the blade into the black as the red, but in either case he would cause
her to decide the death she was trying so bravely to postpone.

DesCaut, surely.

The stars wheeled in their endless march, the well-known ones of the
forenight giving place to strangers of the after hours, and Ridgar had
begun to move with the caution of the hunted, inch by inch, out from
the shelter of the lodge, when he felt a hand steal from the darkness
and touch him with infinite care. He lay still and presently a voice
whispered,

"M'sieu Ridgar?

"Aye?" breathed Ridgar.

"'Tis I,--Marc Dupre from De Seviere."

"Voila! Another! Are there more of you?"

"I would know first, M'sieu,--where is your heart, with savage or
Hudson's Bay?"

"Fair question, truly. I but now am started for yonder lodge on quest
of their deliverance, though without hope. Your appearance lends me
that."

"Sacre! 'Tis done already. Listen, M'sieu, with all your ears. Just
beyond earshot, up the river to the south there lies a big canoe, with
at its nose for instant action two men of Mowbray's brigade, while a
hundred yards inland another waits, armed and ready to cover a hurried
flight. There needs but loosing of those yonder, M'sieu, and here are
we. Two Indians pace the lodge.... You one, me one. What easier?

"Many things, my young hot-blood. Yet it is our only way. Here are
death-mauls,--two. Take you,--they make no sound, provided a practised
hand is behind. Strike near and ease the fall, there are those who sleep
lightly here. Even the earth has ears to-night."

"Think you Ma'amselle is bound?" whispered Dupre next; "I could not see
for the swinging of the factor's body."

"No," replied the trader; "both she and the Nor'wester walked free. But
how, for love of Heaven, comes she here?" he added.

Dupre sighed softly in the darkness.

"For love," he said; "for love of a man."

"I had guessed as much,--how how did she pass the many miles of lake
and stream and forest? And how overtake us?"

"I brought her. By day and night also, without camp, have we come,
aided by canoe-men from Mr. Mowbray's brigade, which we met on the
eastern shore of Winnipeg coming down from York, bound for the
Assiniboine and Cumberland House."

"But for which man? She is unreadable, that woman, though love lives
naked in her face."

But a sudden ache had gripped the throat of the young trapper and he
did not answer.

"Let us be off, M'sieu," he whispered; "now is the time."

"Aye,--if ever."

Slowly, inch by inch, lifting their bodies that they might not rustle
the loose earth and trampled leaves of the camp, Ridgar and Dupre drew
forth into the shadows.

Meantime, within the skin tepee, where all three had been summarily
placed, Maren Le Moyne sat with her head upon her arms and her arms
crossed on her drawn-up knees. Across the opening, just inside the
flap, the body of McElroy lay inert, though she knew that a low breath
rose and fell within him, for she had laid a hand upon his breast.
Beside her, close in the darkness, De Courtenay sat upright and alert,
as if no forty hours of torture had hail their will of him. She could
hear his quick breathing.

Anguish rode her soul like a thousand imps and the slow tears were
falling, bitter as aloes, the symbol of defeat. Every fibre of her
being trembled with love of the man stretched beyond; she longed with
all the passion of her nature to gather the tawny head in her arms, to
kiss the silent lips, the closed eyes. Through the dim cloud that
seemed to envelop him since that night at the factory steps, holding
her from him like bars of iron, she heard again the ringing sweetness
of his voice:

"From this day forth you are mine! Mine only and against the whole
world! I have taken you and you are mine!"

False as Lucifer, but, O bon Dieu! sweet as salvation to the lost

A hundred feelings tore at her heart,--bitterness and unbearable scorn
of her own blundering, and wild protest against failure, but chief of
all was the love that drew her to this man like running water to the
sea.

Now that death was near, so near that even now it might be calling his
earnest spirit out of the darkness, she would do more--a thousandfold!
--to give him life. Only life, the gentle, strong soul of him safe in
the sturdy body!

And she had but hastened the end she had come to avert!

"Jesu mia," she prayed, from the shelter of her arms, "help! Help Thou
--Lord of Heaven, give him to be spared!"

And not once did she think of the great quest, broken by a meagre
waiting by the way; no thought crossed her mind in this crisis of the
Land of the Whispering Hills, of an old man, dreaming his dreams in the
wilderness.

Thus had love set aside like a bauble the thing for which her life had
been lived, for which she had grown and prepared herself in the
attainments of men.

She had felt the magic touch of the great mystery, and henceforth she
was captive, servant to its will, and its mandate had been service.
And here was the end--

A hand touched her shoulder, a hand infinitely soft of prcssurc,
infinitely gentle.

"Ma'amselle," whispered the cavalier in her ear, "one more turn of the
wheel of Fate,--and we take the plunge together. Kin are we, truly; kin
of the tribe of Daring Hearts. A lioness are you, oh, maid with the
Madonna face! No woman, but a creature of the wild, superb in courage
and unknown to fear! I saw it in your face that day in De Seviere,--the
something alien to the common race, the spark, the light; oh, I know
not what it is, save that it is Divine and yet splendidly of the earth!
We are matched in heart. Venturers both, and like true venturers we
shall take the longest trail with a laugh and our hands together,--and
trust to the Aftermath to give us largess of that love which has its
beginning in such glorious wise. Pledge me, oh, my Queen of the World!"

With a grace beyond compare he drew her into his arms, silent and
velvet soft, light and inimitable in his love way.

In utter astonishment Maren felt his silken curls sweep her cheek, his
lips on hers. Her tears were wet on his face. She put up her hands and
pushed him loose.

"M'sieu!" she said, "what do you do?"

"Do? Why, bow to the One Woman of my heart," he said; "my Maid of the
Red Flower, whom love has led to share my fate."

"In all pity! M'sieu, you do mistake most grievously!"

"What? Was it not confession at the post gate when this painted rabble
fell upon us? Or is it still the maiden within fearing the word of
love? In such short space, Sweetheart, there is no time for girlish
fears. Be strong in that as in the courage of the lone trail. Speak!"

"Speak?" said Maren, with her old calmness; "of a surety, M'sieu.
Though I have thrilled at your careless bravery, your laughing daring
which, as you say truly, is kin of my heart,--though I have taken your
red flowers, yet there is in me no spark of love for you, no thought
beyond the admiration of a true son of fortune. That alone, M'sieu."

De Courtenay was staring at her in the blackness of the lodge, his arm
fallen loose about her shoulders.

"Name of God!" he whispered wonderingly, "it is not love? Then what, in
the living world, has brought you over the waste to this camp of
hostile savages?"

"This," said Maren, and she reached a hand to the body of McElroy.

"Sancta Maria! This factor? This heavy-blooded man?.... But he did
speak of half-requited--Oh, Saints of Heaven! What a jest of the world!
The threads of tragedy are tangled into a farce!"

De Courtenay threw up his head and took a silent laugh at the ways of
Fate.

"Three fools together! And the riddle's key too late! At least I can
set it straight for one--"

He broke his laughing whisper to listen to new sounds without, a dull
blow, muffled and heavy, the slight whisper of garments sliding against
garments, the crunch and rustle of a body eased down to earth,--nay,
two blows, coming at a little interval, and from either end the beat
walked by the two guards, and from the southern end there came a grunt,
a cry choked in the throat that uttered it. Instantly the venturer was
up and. at the flap, peering outside. A figure loomed against the
stars, paced slowly by with an audible step, passed and turned and
passed again.

It was Marc Dupre, an eagle feather, snatched from the quivering form
of the guard lying in the darkness by the wall of the lodge, slanting
from his head against the heavens.

A little way beyond at the ashes of a fire a warrior stirred, lifted a
head, and peered toward the tepee of captives; then, satisfied that all
was well, lay down again to slumber. Back and forth, back and forth
paced the solitary watcher. De Courtenay within was quivering from head
to foot with the knowledge that something was happening. As he stood so
the pacing figure halted a moment before the opening.

"S-s-t!" it whispered; "warn Ma'amselle!" then walked away.

Swift on the words another figure crept noiselessly to the lodge door.

"M'sieu," said Edmonton Ridgar, beneath his breath, "give me the
factor's shoulders. Do you take his feet and follow,--softly, for your
life. Bring the maid."

De Courtenay stepped back, groped for Maren, took her head in his
hands, and brought her ear up to his lips.

"Rescue!" he breathed; "Ridgar and Dupre. We carry our friend of the
fort here. Follow."

He loosed her and bent to lift McElroy.

With all her courage leaping at the turn, Maren quietly raised the flap
and in a moment they were all outside among the sleeping camp.

With measured tread Dupre came up to them, walked with them as they
moved silently back, and was on the turn when Maren touched his arm.

"This way," she whispered; "straight ahead."

One more step,--two,--the youth took beside her. It seemed that the
heart within him was breaking in his agony. The shadows of the wood
were drawing very near, the chances of escape multiplying with every
step.

Another sweet moment of nearness and the misty white figure beside him
would fade into the darkness forever, pass forever out of his sight.

Dearer than all the joys of Paradise was that black head, that wondrous
face with its strength and its tenderness so adoringly mingled. The one
supreme thing in all the universe was this woman,--and she was passing.
With an involuntary motion he touched her softly and she stopped
instantly, even at that great moment. It thrilled through him, that quick
perception of his desire.

"Ma'amselle," he whispered, "fare thee well!"

She caught his hand swiftly, pulling him forward. "Eh?" she said. "What
mean you?"

There was startled anxiety in her voice and the heart of Dupre leaped
exultantly.

"Naught," he lied bravely, "save that I must hang behind for a moment
or so to cover any sound with my sentry's step, but I cannot part from
you even so small a space without,--God-speed. Hurry now, Ma'amselle!
They pass from sight!"

He pushed her gently after, but she turned against his hand.

"Come!" she commanded; "I will not leave you!"

"Nay,--how long, think you, before utter silence awakes that mob? You
must be at the water's edge before I follow. Go now,--quick, for love
of Heaven!"

He pushed her away and turned back toward the camp, pacing slowly by
the huddled heap that attested Ridgar's hand, past the empty lodge, and
on to the northern turn, where lay that other figure prone upon the
earth, yet still quivering in every muscle. He died hardly, this strong
North warrior, and Dupre almost regretted the need, though the trapper
of the Pays d'en Haut took without thought whatever of life menaced his
own and considered the deed accomplishment.

Back and forth, back and forth he walked the beat of the watcher and a
holy joy played over his soul like a light from the beyond. He turned
his mind to that hour in the woods, to the memory of the lips of Maren
Le Moyne, the warm sweetness of her beaded breast, the tender affection
of her embrace, and the present faded into that land of dreams wherein
walk those who love greatly.

Meanwhile Ridgar and De Courtenay pushed silently forward with the limp
body of McElroy swinging between, while the girl stepped softly in
their trail, straining her ears for sounds from the camp, and carrying
the only weapon among them, a rifle which Ridgar had taken from the
Indian he had killed.

"To the east," she whispered, "down the little defile to the river,
then south along the shore,--it is shingled and open,--to the canoe.
Walk fast as you can, M'sieu."

It was riskful going through the strip of woods, but when they entered
the little canon that cleft a ridge of cliffs, rising impudently out of
a level land, they mended their pace. Here was solid, dry rock beneath
them, walls of rock on either side, and a narrow strip of star-strewn
sky above.

"Thank God!" Ridgar was saying, under his breath, "the distance
widens!"

But no sooner were the words out of his mouth than a cold chill shot
through him, and Maren pushed forward with compelling hands on De
Courtrnay's shoulders.

"Hurry, M'sieu!" she cried; "they have awakened!"

"Hi! Hi! Hi-a! He-a! Hi!"

Danger was waking in the camp behind, first with one sharp cry, then
another and another, until throat after throat took up the sound and
the yapping turned into a roar.

They were but half-way through the narrow gorge. The two men broke into
a stumbling run. Ridgar was going backwards, half-turned to see ahead,
and suddenly his foot struck a loose pebble and he fell headlong. De
Courtenay stumbled, and in the scramble to right themselves they lost
more time than they could spare. Before they were up and started, a
shrill voice came into the gorge, yelling its "Hi! Hi! Hi-a!"

De Courtenay suddenly stopped.

"'Tis useless!" he said breathlessly; "We'll never make it! Here,--do
you take my place, Ma'amselle!"

He caught Maren's shoulder and pushed her forward.

"Take his knees,--so! You are strong,--give me the rifle. Make haste,
Ridgar,--Ma'amselle!"

He bowed in the darkness.

"The last turn of the wheel, Ma'amselle,--and I take the plunge alone.
All in the day's march!"

With the last words he turned back to face the way they had come, shook
his long curls back across his shoulder, and lifted the rifle to his
cheek.

The footsteps of Ridgar and Maren were echoing down the rocky gap.

It had been a promising escape, a neat plan well carried out, and there
was but one thing lacking to its fulfilment,--another step to pace the
deserted lodge of captives.

Across in the darkness among the Bois-Brules one ear had lain close to
the tell-tale earth, one evil face peered unsleeping among the dusky
shapes of the camp, a swarthy face with a white lock on its temple.

Keener than all the rest, Bois DesCaut, driven by personal hate,
listened to all the sounds of night.

And he had heard a changing in the steps that passed and repassed, that
separated and came together, before that lodge across the sleeping
mob,--a change, a little silence, and then the steps again that
presently thinned to ONE,--one step that paced evenly, with a measured
tread, a moccasined step like that of an Indian, yet somehow alien in
its firmness and swing.

One step where there should have been two,--and the half-breed trapper
raised himself and gave the first "Hi! Hi!"

Like startled wolves they were up all around him in a moment and down
on that empty tepee with its one sentry!

A torch flared redly with the sudden revealing of a slim youth in
buckskins and two Nakonkirhirinon warriors deep in the Great Sleep.

What was there for Marc Dupre in that moment of roused fury,--that
tense moment of awaking rage, of baffled rights of payment?

What but death too swift and unrestrained for torture?

A dozen weapons reached him from as many crowding hands and he went
down on the last earth her feet had trod, the spot where she had last
touched his hand.

Her golden voice, sweet with its sliding minors, was in his ears, the
sweetness of her lips on his.

"A stone to your foot, Ma'amselle," he whispered, as the darkness broke
and the stars began to dance on a sky of blood-red fire; "serve you
with my life,--no better fate,--oh, I love you! I--a stone to your
foot,--Ma'amselle!"

And at that moment Maren Le Moyne, straining every muscle of her young
body to save the man she loved, looked swiftly back, having left the
defile to stagger, stumbling, southward to where Mowbray's men waited
with the canoe.

She saw the sudden flaming of the torch, the slim, boyish figure in its
buckskins, the ring of faces, and the flash of weapons; saw the forms
close in and the slim boy go down like a reed in the winter storm, and
a cry broke from her lips as De Courtenay's rifle began to sound in the
gorge.

With tears on her cheeks and her face drawn hard, she raised her head
and gave a panther's far-off call.



CHAPTER XXV ANSWERED PRAYERS

Out of the forest at the signal came running Alloybeau and McDonald and
Frith, alert, ready for anything, wondering beyond wonder at the call
that meant deliverance. Not one of them had thought to see again this
strange, intrepid woman who pierced the forbidden places and wound men
like Mr. Mowbray around her fingers. It would have been a toss-up for
men to attempt what she had done.

She was coming to the canoe, and she was victorious. Yet they knew that
death was up and at her heels, from the sound of the shots.

The big canoe was in the water, the men were ready, paddle in hand,
with Wilson knee-deep in the stream ready to push off, when along the
reach of shore there came that sorry ending to the gallant venture,--
Ridgar and the girl, staggering, stumbling, trying to make what haste
they could, with swinging roughly between them the apparently lifeless
body of the factor of Fort de Seviere.

Breathless and exhausted they reached the boat. Brilliers and Wilson
reached for their burden, threw it into the bottom, and hauled Maren on
her knees among the thwarts.

There was a shove, a word, a dip of the paddles, and the canoe shot out
to the deeper waters, and none aboard her saw the form of Edmonton
Ridgar draw back into the shelter of tangled vines on shore.

"Give me a blade!"

From the rocking bottom Maren was reaching for a paddle, got it, thrust
by some one into her hands, and was cleaving water with the best of
them, deep stroke after deep stroke, the rush and suck of the eddy in
her ears.

In the cold blue darkness the stream whispered and warned like some old
witch at her cauldron, the night was clammy, and behind the new fires
flared against the towering trees.

A babble of voices told of pursuit,--shouts and gutturals that strung
out from the camp all through the gorge and were beginning to flow with
the river.

"Only a matter of time,--a little time," thought Wilson, at the prow,
but never a word was uttered in the canoe.

Exerting every atom of strength, calling on all the will-power aboard,
they shot forward into the night and the current.

The noise behind increased, as the tones of a bell blown by the wind
increase when the wind sets in one's direction.

"Not now!" Maren was saying to herself. "Not now,--when we are so far
toward the winning! Not now,--oh, Friend of my heart! why was that
price demanded? Holy Mary rest him, that young Marc Dupre--and send
deliverance for this--"

Ahead the river swept around a turn. Keeping close to the shore they
caught shallow water and cut round into a wider opening.

The cries behind veered and deadened, and suddenly Wilson in the prow
raised his blade.

Maren leaned behind him and looked into the shadows.

On every side dark shapes covered the face of the stream like water-
bugs, from every side there came the "whoo-sh-st-whoo-sh" of dipping
paddles, the little plank and rattle of their shafts against gunwales.

They had glided into the midst of a flotilla of canoes travelling at
night and in silence.

The maid from Grand Portage threw up her head.

"In among them," she whispered, "quick! Deep as we can!"

"But, Ma'amselle," whispered back Wilson, "they may be Indians."

"What matters? A chance is a chance, and who would not risk its
turning?"

Unconsciously she was quoting that kinsman whose dauntless courage and
love of venture had found its last thrill in covering her retreat in
the gorge.

"In among them! Deep!"

Softly, as one of their number, the fugitive craft crept out to
midstream and forward, usurping boldly place and speed.

Leaning low at each stroke the little company strained eye and ear for
sight and sound, but, look as they might, they saw no eagle feathers
against the stars, heard no word or whisper.

Barely had they reached their uncertain sanctuary when the light of
torches shot southward across the bend and next moment circled, a far-
reaching arm, to spread out and illumine the river broadcast as the
Nakonkirhirinons swept into view, their savage faces peering under the
raised flambeaux, their eyes like fiery points--searching their prey.

It fell on all the river, that light, on the running waters disturbed
by myriad blades of white ash, on the banked background of the trees,
on the drooping foliage at the stream's edge,--frail triflers of the
wilderness, stooping from the sweet winds of Heaven to the water's
wanton kiss,--and on a swarm of canoes, each manned by full complement
of men, most of whose faces were eagle-featured and dark, blackeyed and
high-cheekboned, though here and there were the fair hair and white
skin of white men.

Odd, indeed, was the effect of this tableau on the Indians under the
torches. They had come for one lone canoe,--to find a horde; for one
man and one woman,--to fall upon a brigade.

They halted and the distance widened between.

And then the flotilla parted at a word of command from the darkness
ahead and a boat came back among them. It passed close to the
fugitives, and Maren saw a tall man with a square chin, who stood up in
it.

When it reached the fringe it went on out into the open water toward
the halted canoes of the Nakonkirhirinons, on whose eager faces sat a
sort of stupid awe.

"What do yez want?" called the tall man sternly, as he swept face to
face with the foremost canoe in which stood a headman of the tribe.
"Whyfore is all this bally-hoo wid th' lights?"

There was no answer and he roared at them like a lion

"Can yez not shpake, ye haythen?"

Whereat a canoe glided from the back shadows and the voice of Bois
DesCaut came in its broken English,

"A boat,--M'sieu,--we seek a boat that but now escaped from camp with a
murderer aboard,--one who killed in cold blood the chief Negansahima
back at the post of De Seviere. My brothers travel to the Pays d'en
Haut that justice may be done. We only seek the murderer."

The tall man stood in silence a moment and glared at the scene, at the
excited faces, the gleaming eyes, the shifting glance of the spokesman.

"A likely sthory!" he said presently. "An' who, may I make bould to
ask, is this murderer?"

DesCaut squirmed a moment in silence.

"Who,--did ye say?"

"A man, M'sieu,--a-a-trapper."

"One lone man? Troth I commend his valour in evadin' such a rabble o'
hell-spawn! An' what from did he escape,--th' sthake an' th'
stretchline?"

"Justice, M'sieu,--his life for the chief's."

"Ho-ho! From th' looks o' yer fri'nds, me lad, I'm thinkin' 'twill be
justice wid her eyes shut!...But ye may turrn back an' search the
forest,--we have no sthrangers in our party."

DesCaut glowered at him a moment and spoke to the headmen around in
their speech. There were threatening gutturals and gestures.

The flotilla was small compared to that of the tribe back at the gorge,
they would know, at any rate.

"They say, if M'sieu will let one canoe go through his people with the
torches, all will be well. Otherwise,--five hundred warriors, M'sieu,
can take their will with two hundred."

"Aye?" said the tall man, jerking his head around. He had been scanning
the mass of his own craft, packed behind him, fading into the shadows
out of the light. There was a peculiar look in his eyes when he faced
DesCaut again, a thrust to his square jaw. In that backward look he had
caught sight of the brown face of Maren Le Moyne, the white garment,
glittering with its beads,--but he had seen, too, the crown of braids,
wrapped round her head after the manner of the white woman.

"Go yer ways," he said; "we thravel fast on urgent business,--ye cannot
throuble us wid yer lookin' an' pokin'. Tell yer fri'nds--No."

At this there was commotion among the Indians. A hurried consultation
took place, with indrawing of canoes under the flambeaux, waving arms,
and angry gestures.

"Then, M'sieu,--we come,--make way!" It was DesCaut, important and
ugly.

"No, ye don't, me lad. Shwing back The Little Devil, bhoys!"

The leader's canoe shifted sidewise and another craft, heavy,
lumbersome, and vastly bigger than the light boats of the rest poked
its nose into its place,--and that nose was brass and round with a
gaping maw,--a small cannon, scarcely big enough for the name, but a
roaring braggart for all that.

"Belch, me darlin', if ye have th' belly-ache!" cried this tall man,
and, without more warning, there was a tremendous flash and detonation,
a mighty flying of the clear waters just under the bows of the foremost
canoes of the Indians.

There was hiss and sputter of the torches, an upward leap of canoe and
savage, capsize and panic and fear, and the night screamed with many
voices.

"Formation again, lads!" called the sturdy voice of the leader. "We do
be wastin' time wid these haythen!"

The canoe rounded, passed up between the others, which closed in
behind, and the cannon-boat lumbered into place in the rear.

As he passed the strangers in their midst the tall man looked hard at
Maren, the five men, and leaned out a bit to see what lay in the
bottom.

"A close shave!" he said; "kape close in the middle an' shpake me at
camp in the marnin'."

The mass of dark objects, drawing out of the light, moved forward and,
with a rush of intuition, the girl knew that all danger was past and
that safety hovered over them like the luminous wings of an angel.

"Holy Master!" she cried within, "Thou didst answer my prayer,--but at
what cost! Oh, Lord of Heaven, what cost!"

Then she dropped her blade and, under cover of the darkness, sat back
upon her heels, covered her face with her hands, and wept.

In the silence that had fallen deep again, save for the lessening
tumult behind, her weeping sounded to the outermost canoe low and
awful, hard and terrible as the weeping of a man.

She did not even feel if the breath was still in McElroy.

Friendship was taking its toll of love.



CHAPTER XXVI SANCTUARY

"'Twas yer leader I meant, lassie, should rayport to me. Is it he I saw
yez rollin' out like a bag o' beans?"

"Nay, M'sieu," said Maren Le Moyne, standing before the tall man in the
flush of dawn at the morning camp, her eyes red-rimmed and the curling
corners of her mouth drooped and sad; "what poor leader there is among
us has been myself."

"Eh?"

All along the river bank were little fires, their blue smoke curling up
to the blue sky above, the bustle and fuss of preparation for the
morning meal. At one place in the centre of camp two women, their
appearance that of great fatigue, were languidly directing the work of
a couple of Indians. An abundance of truck was everywhere--utensils for
cooking, clothing, and blankets out of all reason to one used to the
trail.

These things had not escaped Maren as she came through them in search
of the leader. They all set his status in her mind, told her much of
the history of her rescuers.

"Eh?" he said in surprise again; "you the leader? An' whatlike was the
evil hap that placed ye in among that rabble o' painted beauties, may I
ask? An' how comes a slip of a lass"--he looked her over from head to
heel with his sharp grey eyes; "--well, not so much a slip, still a
colleen--like you wid th' command o' men in this part o' th' world?"

"Of a surety you may ask, M'sieu, and it will be my happiness to tell
you, since but for you and your quick help, given without knowledge, we
should be now in sorry plight.

"The man you saw taken from the canoe is Monsieur Anders McElroy,
Factor of Fort de Seviere on the Assiniboine, and of the Hudson's Bay
Company."

"Faith of me fathers! Say ye so! A man of our own men!"

"Aye. Then you are also of the Company? Good! Surely have we fallen on
the lap of fortune.... Those Indians, Nakonkirhirinons from the far
north and strangers in this country, came to De Seviere to trade. For
two--three dais, maybe more,--I have lost track of time, M'sieu,--they
passed up and down at the trading,--camped on the shoreand all seemed
well, though they were wild and shy as partridges. One man among them
seemed to wear the cloak of civilisation,--Negansahima the chief.

"Then one day at dusk,--it was a soft day, gold and sweet, M'sieu, and
soft, with all the post at the great gate watching the Indians,--there
were many,--four or five hundred warriors and as many women and
children,--this day there was,--a tragedy. Something happened,--a
trifle."

The girl stopped a moment and a sigh caught her breath.

"Just a trifle--but two men fought at the gate, the factor and another
--a Nor'wester from the Saskatchewan,--a long-haired venturer,--a man
from Montreal, but a brave man, M'sieu, oh, a very brave man! They
fought and there was the discharge of a pistol,--and--the shot went
wild. It slew the good chief, M'sieu. There was uproar,--they swarmed
upon the two and bound them."

Maren's eyes were growing large with the remembered excitement of that
moment.

The tall Irishman was watching her keenly.

"They bound them and struck away to the north, taking them along, and
the burden of their cry was, 'A skin for a skin!'

"They brought them so far,--they would have reached their own country
but for a band of Bois-Brules, who joined them some suns back with that
red liquor whose touch is hell to an Indian. They had gone wild,
M'sieu; wild!"

She was very weary and she shuddered a bit at the word.

"And,--so,--that is all,--save that we had done that much toward
escaping when you found us."

She ceased and looked gravely into his face.

"Howly Moses! I see,--I see! But ye have left a wide rent in th' tale.
Wherefore are yez here yerself, lassie?"

"I?" said Maren, swaying where she stood. "I followed, M'sieu."

"Followed? From the Assiniboine? Alone?"

"Nay. There was one came with me,--a youth,--a trapper,--my comrade, my
friend. He died yonder in that surging purgatory--"

The tears were welling to her weary eyes.

"The Nor'wester, Alfred de Courtenay, also--We only of that venture are
escaped alive,--a sorry showing. The five men who man my boat belong to
the brigade under Mr. Mowbray, which we met on Winnipeg. Such is our
small history, M'sieu, and all we ask is your protection out of the
reach of the Nakonkirhirinons. I take him back to De Seviere,--God
knows if he will live to reach it. He lies so still. But I must get him
back--"

She ceased and passed her hand across her eyes.

"I must get him back,--I must get him back."

"Aye, aye. Ye come with me. Ye need a woman's hand, girl. Ye're well in
yerself."

There was a huskiness to the sharp voice and the man took her by the
arm, turning her toward the fire and the two women. She stumbled a step
or two in the short stretch.

"I must go back to him, M'sieu!" she protested. "He will need--will
need--broth--and a wet cloth to his bruised head--"

"We'll see to him, don't ye fret. It's shlape ye need yerself. Sheila,
whativer do ye think o' this! Here's a colleen shlipped through the
fingers of those bow-legged signboards and fair done wid heroism an'
strategy, an' Lord knows what all, an' off her feet wid tire! Do ye
take her an' feed her. Put her to bed on th' blankets an' do for her
like yerself knows how, darlint! 'Tis an angel unaware, I'm thinkin'--
an' her on Deer River!"

One of the women, a little creature with dark hair and blue eyes, Irish
eyes "rubbed in with a smutty finger," came forward and looked up into
Maren's stained face, streaked with her tears, her eyes dazed and all
but closing with the weariness that had only laid its hand upon her in
the last few moments, but whose sudden touch was heavy as lead.

"Say ye so!" she said wonderingly; "a girl! So this was what caused the
rumpus in the night! But come, dearie, 'tis rest ye want, sure!"

She laid her and on Maren's arm and there was in its gentle touch
something which broke down the last quivering strand of strength within
the girl, striving to stand upright.

"Yes, Madame," she said dreamily. "Yes, but he must have--he must have
--broth--and a bandage,--wet"

"Sure, sure,--he shall,--but come to the blankets!"

As Maren went down with a long sigh, her limbs shirking the last task
of straightening themselves upon the softness of the unwonted couch,
the little woman looked up across her at the man with a world of
questions in her face.

"Poor darlin'!" she said softly. "Whativer is it, Terence?"

"A heroine, if all she says be thrue, an' as unconscious of it as a
new-born babe!"

When Maren awoke the sun was straight overhead and some one had been
calling from a distance for a very long time.

"Come, come, asthore! Opin yer eyes! That's it! A little more, now.
Wake up, for love av Heaven, or we'll all be overtaken be th' Injuns!"

Ah! Indians! At that she opened her eyes and looked into the pretty
blue ones she remembered last.

The little woman was kneeling beside her with an arm about her
shoulder, trying to lift her heavy head and falling short in the
endeavour.

Maren was too much in her muscled height for the bird-like creature.
She sat up at once and looked around. The canoes were in the water, all
the miscellaneous luggage had been put aboard, and every one was ready
for a new start. Only herself, the blanket bed, and the little woman
were unready.

Just below, her own canoe, with Brilliers, Wilson, Frith, McDonald, and
Alloybeau in place, waited her presence. She could see, from the
elevation of the shore, the stretched form of McElroy in the bottom, a
bright blanket beneath him and his fair head pillowed on a roll of
leaves. A shelter of boughs hid his face, and for one moment her heart
stopped while the river and the woods, the people and the boats whirled
together in a senseless blur.

She sprang to her feet.

"Is he--" she faltered thickly, "is he--"

"No, no, dearie! He is like he was, only they have fixed him a bit av a
shelther from th' sun. Do ye dhrink this now," she coaxed in her pretty
voice; "dhrink it, asthore,--ye'll nade it f'r th' thrip."

She held up a bowl of broth, steaming and sweet as the flesh-pots of
Egypt, and Maren took it from her.

"But--did M'sieu--Oh, I have slept when I should have tended him!"

"Ye poor girl. Dhrink,--he has been fed like a babe be me own hands.
There!"

There were tears in the little woman's eyes, and Maren took the bowl
and drained it clear.

"You are good, Madame," she said, with a long breath. "Merci! How good
to those in need! But now am I right as a trivet and shamed that I must
fail at the last. Are you ready?"

She picked up the blankets, smiled at the tall man who came for them,
and walked with them down to the canoes.

"In th' big boat, lass, wid th' women," said the leader; "'tis more
roomy-like."

"I thank you, M'sieu, but I have my place. I cannot leave it." And she
stepped in her own canoe.

"Did ye iver behold such a shmile, Terence?" cried the little woman,
when the flotilla had strung into shape and the green summer shores
were slipping past. "'Tis like the look av th' Virgin in th' little
Chapel av St. Joseph beyant Belknap's skirts,--so sad and yet as fair
as light!"

And so began with the slipping green shores, the airy summer sky laced
with its vanity of fleecy clouds, the backward journey to safety and De
Seviere.

The large party travelled at forced time, short camps and long pulls,
for, as the little woman told Maren at the next stop, they were
hurrying south to Quebec.

"Where th' ships sail out to th' risin' sun, ochone, and Home calls
over th' sea,--the little green isle wid its pigs an' its shanties, its
fairs an' its frolics, an' the merry face av th' Father to laugh at its
weddin's an' cry over its graves. Home that might make a lass forget
such a haythen land as this, though God knew if it would ever get out
av th' bad dreams at night!

"An' now will ye be afther tellin' us th' sthory av yer adventures, my
dear?"

Maren was cooking a broth of wild hen in the little pail of poor Marc
Dupre, across the fire, and the little woman was busy watching a bit of
bread baking on a smoothed plank. Her companion, a tall, fair-haired
woman with pale eyes, light as the grey-green sheen sometimes seen on
the waters before a storm, was reclining in tired idleness beside her.
This woman had not spoken to Maren, but her cold eyes followed her now
with an odd persistence.

"Or is it too wild and sad? If it gives ye pain, don't say a word,--
though, wurra! 'tis woild I am to hear!"

Maren looked up, and once more the smile that was stranger to her
features played over them in its old-time beauty.

"Nay,--why should I not tell so good a heart as yours?" said the girl
simply, and she began at the beginning and told the sorry tale through
to its end.

"And so he died, this young trapper with the soul of pearl, and I alone
go back to De Seviere with--with M'sieu the factor," she concluded
heavily.

"Mother av Heavin! An' which,--forgive me lass,--which man av the three
did ye love? For 'tis only love could be behind such deeds as these!"

The ready tears were swimming in the Irishwoman's blue eyes, straight
from her warm heart, and she was leaning forward in the intensity of
her sympathy and excitement.

"Which, Madame? Why, M'sieu the factor, surely."

And Maren looked into the red heart of the fire.

With a sudden impulse this daughter of Erin dropped her plank in the
ashes, and coming swiftly forward, fell on her knees with her arms
around the girl's neck.

"Saints be praised!" she cried, weeping openly. "Saints be praised, ye
have him safe! An' there can nothin' ha'arm ye now, with us goin' yer
ways so close! An' there'll be a weddin' av coorse whin th' poor lad
comes round! F'r a flip av ale I'd command Terence to turn aside an' go
triumphant entry-in' to this blessid fort av yours and witness th'
ceremonies!"

Maren smiled sadly and laid her hand on the black head tucked into her
neck. It was a caress, that touch, tender and infinitely sweet, for
with the quick heart of her she knew the little woman to be of the gold
of earth, and she was conscious of a longing to keep her near, who was
so soon to sail "into the risin' sun" and who had been so short a time
her friend.

Friend, assuredly, for friendship was not a thing of time, but hearts
alike, and they had turned together with the first look.

So they sat a while, these two from the ends of the earth, and the warm
Irish heart cleared itself of tears, like April weather, to come up
laughing in another moment.

"An' to think ye niver told us your name, asthore!" she said, wiping
her eyes; "nor yer home place! Were ye raised in this post av
haythins?"

"Maren Le Moyne of Grand Portage. My father--was a smith."

"Of Grand Portage! An' ye are so far inland! I am Sheila O'Halloran, av
all Oirland, an' wife to Terence th' same,--yer fri'nd for always,
asthore, f'r niver will I be forgettin' this time!"

She turned to the fair woman, smiling and alight.

"Did ye iver dhrame av such romance, my dear?" she asked. "An' isn't it
just wonderful to find a real live heroine in th' wilderness?"

The woman was toying with a bunch of grass, winding the slim green
blades around her pale fingers, and she looked back with peculiar
straightness.

"It is all very wonderful, Sheila, and commands admiration, of course;
but, for my part, a strange woman alone on the rivers with a party of
men must have something beside her own word to vouch for her before I
should take her in with open arms. You are too ready to believe
anything. How do you know this venturess is not a--Jezebel?"

For a moment an awful silence fell upon the three, and they could hear
the myriad sounds of the evening camp round about.

Then Maren, her eyes wide in amaze, said stupidly:

"Eh,--Madame?"

And the Irishwoman cried: "Frances! For shame!"

But the other was very much composed.

"I am right, all the same,--what woman of modesty would follow a man to
the wilderness, confessing brazenly her love? You haven't noticed any
hysterics on my part over it,--nor will you. I think it all a very open
scandal."

The little woman was flying into a rage of tumbled words and hopeless
brogue, but Maren Le Moyne, the blood red to her temples, rose
silently, took the pot of broth, and walked away, and never in her life
did she hold herself so tall and straight.

As she knelt beside the blanket bed of McElroy, and lifted his helpless
head, her eyes were burning sombrely.

"This, too?" she was saying dumbly, within herself. "Is this, too, part
of the lesson of life?"

And all through the days that followed, long warm days, with the songs
of birds from the gliding shores, the ripple of waters beneath the prow
of a canoe, she sat beside the unconscious man and looked at him with
dumb yearning.

For love of him,--what would she not have done, what would she not do
still for love of him,--he who had sold her for a kiss; and for it
there came something,--she could not define it,--something that seemed
to live in the atmosphere, to taint the glory of the sunshine, to speak
under every word and whisper.

Never again did she cook at the fire with the others, but had her own
on the outskirts, and Sheila O'Halloran came and cooked with her,
talked and comforted and hovered about Anders McElroy where he lay in a
silence like death, his fair face flushed with fever and his strong
hands plucking at everything within their reach.

"Don't ye worry, dear, he'll not die. 'Twouldn't be accordin' to th'
rights av life,--not afther all ye've done f'r him. He'll opin his
blessid eyes some day an' know ye, an' Heaven itself will not be like
thim f'r glory."

But Maren only looked tragically down upon him.

What would they say, those eyes that she had thought so earnest, so
all-deserving in their eager honesty, if they should open to her alone?

Would they lie as they had done before, with the thought of Francette
behind their blue clearness?

Ah, well,--it was all in the day's march.

This day at noon camp she came upon, close to a fallen tree, a wee red
flower nodding on its slender stalk. She sighed and broke it.

"In memory of a brave man," she said sadly. "Oh, a very brave man!"



CHAPTER XXVII RETURN

Eastward through the little lakes, across the portages where McElroy
was carried by means of pole and blanket swung from sturdy shoulders,
they went at hurried pace, and never a man of Maren's small command but
watched the sadness of her face, that seemed to grow with the days and
to feel an aching counterpart of it within his own heart.

"Take my coat for your head, Ma'amselle," when she rested among the
thwarts,--"Let me, Ma'amselle," when she would do some little task.
Thus they served her from the old desire that sight of her face had
ever stirred in the breasts of men, she who had never played at the
game of love, nor knew its simplest trick.

Southward, presently, up the rivers hurrying to the great bay at the
north, and at last out upon the broad waters of Winnipeg, and never for
an hour had McElroy's wandering soul come back to his suffering body.
Day by day Maren tended him, feeding him as one feeds a helpless babe,
shielding him from the sun by her own shadow when the branches gathered
at morn withered ere noon, wetting the fair head with its waving
sunburnt hair with water dipped from overside, and praying constantly
for his life.

As they neared the southern end, where Winnipeg narrows like the neck
of a bottle, his tongue loosened from its silence and he began to
babble and talk in broken sentences, and it was all about De Courtenay
and a remorse that ate the troubled soul.

"I owe you apologies, M'sieu,--'tis a sorry plight and I alone am to
blame. And yet I have a score,--gladly would I take my will of you for
that one fault,--another time,--another place. Still have I no right,
save as one man who,--But I have a plan,--one may escape,--listen--when
I grapple with this guard, do you make for the river--with all speed--
My God! My God! M'sieu! Why did you not run?" And so he muttered and
sighed, and Maren bent above with wide eyes.

Something there was between these two, some enmity that followed even
into the land of shadows and yet held them gentlemen through it all,
offering and rejecting some chance of escape. A weary, weary tangle.

Again he would fancy himself back in De Seviere and always there was De
Courtenay with his smiling face and tantalizing beauty.

"Welcome, M'sieu, to our post! Seldom do we meet so gay a guest!"

Often the wandering words would stumble among his accounts at the
factory and he would give directions to the clerks, and then Ridgar's
name would come, only to carry him instantly to the camp of the savages
on Deer River.

"Edmonton,--friend of my heart,--alone! and you pass me without speech!
Ah,--that look! That look! I'd stake my soul--"

And once in the cool twilight of an ended day, with the tall trees
above and the river lapping below, he cried out her name,

"Maren!" and once again, "Maren!" with a world of change between the
two words.

The first plunged the girl's heart to her throat with its passion, the
second chilled her like a cool wind.

And all at once he said, after a pause, "What is it, little one?"

So passed the days of the return.

Hour by hour the bright waters of the lake spoke to the girl with
voices of regret and sadness. The blue sky above seemed to mirror the
dark face of Marc Dupre, the wind from the shores to be his low voice,
each passing shadow among the trees his slender figure returning from
the hunt for her.

Her heart was sore that Fate had willed it so, and yet, looking down at
the face of this man at her feet, she knew it had to be and that she
would do again all that she had done.

And ever before her passed the scornful face of the fair woman who had
set the little undertone to all the world.

It troubled her, and for hours together she sat in silence reasoning it
all out, while Mowbray's men dipped the shining blades and here and
there the voyageurs and Indians who wore no feathers sang snatches of
song, now a chanson of the trail and rapid, again a wordless monotony
of savage notes.

The evening camps were short spaces of blessed quietude and converse
when Sheila O'Halloran sat beside her and they talked of many things,--
chiefly the dear little Island whose green sod would soon again receive
the feet of "herself an' Terence."

"'Tis thankful I am, me dear, to be out av this forsaken land alive wid
me hair on me head instid av on a hoop painted green wid little red
arrows on th' stretched shkin inside! 'Tis a sorry counthry an' fit f'r
no woman, but whin Terence must come on some mysterious business av th'
government,--an' niver, till this minute, accushla, do I know whut it
is,--a cryin' shame 'tis, too, wid me, his devoted wife!--I must come
along or die. Wurra! Many's th' time I thought I'd do th' thrick here!
But now are th' dangers passin' wid ivery mile,--hark to th' men
singin'! 'Tis bad business whin men do not sing at th' day's work. 'Tis
glad I am f'r safe deliverance from that counthry av nightmares wid its
outlandish name,--Athabasca,--where Terence must moon from post to post
av th' Hudson's Bay--"

"Athabasca!"

Maren's head was up and she was looking at the little woman with an
eager wistfulness.

"The Land of the Whispering Hills!"

"Thrue,--'tis th' Injun word,--but a woild, woild land f'r all that."

"But beautiful, Madame,--oh! it is beautiful, is it not?"

"Fair,--wid high hills an' a great blue lake an' woildness!--Ah!"

But the tall leader was calling and camp was breaking for another
stretch.

And under the travelling stars of that night there awoke in the heart
of the maid of the trail something of the old love, the old longing for
that goal of her life's ambition.

She had turned aside from it, only to be taught a lesson whose scars
would stay deep in her soul so long as life lasted.

At last came an hour when the party under O'Halloran must turn to the
east, where the bottle-neck of Winnipeg split in two, going down that
well-worn way which led to Lake of the Woods, Rainy River, and at last
to the wide lakes, whose sparkling waves would waft them on to the
great outside world.

There was a scene at parting, when the warmhearted Irishwoman clung to
Maren and wept against her bosom, calling her all the hundred words for
"darling" in the Celtic and vowing to remember her always.

The fair woman, wife of a Scotchman who acted as some sort of secretary
to O'Halloran, sat apart in cold silence.

"M'sieu," said Maren, at the last, "I have no words to thank you for
this that you have done. I but cast it into the balance of God, which
must hang heavy with your goodness."

She had given her hand to the leader, and that impulsive son of the
ould sod kissed it gallantly.

"'Tis little we did, lass, for you and your poor lad yonder, and 'twas
in our hearts to do more. But here's luck to you both,--an early
weddin' an' sturdy sons!"

And, as the morning sun glittered on the ripples of the departing
boats, Maren stood long looking after them, a mist in her eyes and her
full lips quivering.

She looked until the gathering dimness hid the waving kerchief of the
only woman friend who had ever truly reached her heart.

Then she sat down and took up a paddle.

"Last lap, Messieurs," she said, above the mutter of McElroy at her
feet, and they turned toward where the familiar river came rushing to
the lake.

The summer lay heavy on the land when they reached the Assiniboine.

Deep green of the forests, deep green of fern and bush and understuff,
told of the full tide of the year. Here and there a leaf trailed in the
shallows, yellow as gold in an early death.

She thought of the spring, so long past, when she had first come into
this sweet land, and it seemed like another time, another life, another
person.

This day at dusk they passed the hidden cove where she had found Marc
Dupre waiting to build her fire. The abandoned canoe still lay hidden
where he left it.

Cool blue dawn, hushed and wide-reaching, still with that stillness
which precedes the sunrise, lay over the river, when the lone canoe
rounded the lower bend and Anders McElroy, factor of Fort de Seviere,
came back to his own again.

In the prow there knelt a weary figure in a soiled and sun-bleached
garment of doeskin, its glittering plastron of bright beads broken here
and there, the ragged ends of sinews hanging as they were left by briar
and branch, and the haggard eyes went with eager swiftness to the
stockade standing in its grim invincibility facing the east.

The row of wonted canoes lay upturned upon the shelving shore at the
landing, the half-moon at the right still glowered with its puny cannon
which had spoken no word to save their master on that fateful day, and
all things looked as if but a day had passed between.

The great gate with its studded breast was closed, the bastions at the
corners were empty of watchers, for peace folded its wings above the
past.

Without sound the boat cut up to the landing, Brilliers leaped out and
steadied it to place, and Maren stepped once more upon the familiar
slope.

They lifted McElroy, swinging in his blanket, and the tread of the
moccasined feet was hollow on the planks.

Thus there passed up to the gate of De Seviere a triumphal procession
of victory, whose heart was heavy within it, and whose leader in her
tattered dress was the saddest sight of all.

She raised her hand and beat upon the gate, and a voice cried, "Who
comes?"

"Open, my brother," she called, for the voice was that of Henri
Baptiste, whose turn at the gate it was.

There was an ejaculation, a swift rattle of chains, and the heavy
portal swung back, while the blanched face of young Henri stared into
the dawn. Maren motioned to the men and they stepped in with their
burden.

"Holy Mary! Maren! Maren! Maren!" cried Henri Baptiste, and took both
her arms in a gripping clasp. He looked into her face with fear and
wonder, as if the girl had returned from the dead, while joy
unspeakable began to lighten his features.

"Sister! Holy Mary!"

And then, when the touch of her in the flesh had dispelled his first
horror, when the sight of the factor swinging grotesquely in the
blanket had taken on the sense of reality, he raised his voice in a
stentorian call.

From every door it brought the populace running, half-dressed and
startled, and in scant space a ring of faces stared upon the strangers
in stupid awe.

"Ma'amselle Le Moyne!" they whispered, fearfully.

"Mother of Heaven! The factor!"

"Our factor! Out of the hands of Death!"

"Mon Dieu! One of them! And the maid!"

And in the midst of the awed and hushed excitement that was growing
with each passing moment, there cut the voice of McElroy, babbling from
the blanket.

"Throw! Throw, Ma'amselle,--for M'sieu!"

"Hush!" said Maren; "where is Prix Laroux?"

"Here!"

The big fellow was pushing through the gathering crowd, to stand before
the weary girl with burning eyes.

"Maren!" he said simply, and could say no more.

"Take him, Prix," she said quietly; "take him to the factory. Get Rette
de Lancy's hand above him for care, and Jack for all things else. Take
these my men, and give them all the post affords, but chiefly rest at
present. They have--"

Here there came a tumult among the listening populace, and Marie rushed
through and flung herself upon Maren and there was time for nothing
else, save that, as Maren turned with her hanging like a vice about her
throat and Henri's arm across her shoulders, there was a streak of
crimson, a flash of ornaments in the sun, but now risen above the
forest's rim, and some one threw herself upon the unconscious form of
McElroy, kissing his face and his helpless hands and weeping
terribly.

It was the little Francette. At her heels the great dog, Loup, halted
and glowered at the strangers.



CHAPTER XXVIII THE OLD DREAM ONCE MORE

They led her through the new day, between the staring, whispering
people, this comer from beyond the grave, to the little new cabin
beside the northern wall, across its step and into its sweet, fresh
cleanliness of home; and when Henri had shut the door they stood
together in a group, their arms inwound, and Marie wept helplessly
while Maren looked down with moist and weary eyes.

"There! There! Hush, ma cherie! Hush!" she was saying, but Henri was
reading with amaze the change in her glorious face.

"It has been a long trail, Prix, but a longer one beckons with
ceaseless insistence. No longer can I sit in idleness. Can we, think
you, raise the debt to carry us on at once? My heart is sick for the
Athabasca."

Maren stood by the factory door conversing earnestly with Laroux.

From every point of the post curious eyes looked upon her. Here and
there groups of women whispered in the doorways, and once and again a
laugh, quick hushed, broke on the evening air.

Somehow they struck upon the girl's ears with an ugly sound, reminding
her vaguely of the fair woman who travelled eastward with Sheila
O'Halloran, and her voice grew more earnest.

Laroux, who had not spoken with her since that one word of the morning
at the gate, was dumb of tongue, aching with the old feeling in his
heart which had told him faithfully so long ago that all was not well
with her.

"At once, Maren," he said huskily, "I will raise the debt. When would
you be gone?"

"Soon, my friend,--soon, soon."

"The word shall go round to-night. All shall be ready in forty-eight
hours."

He paused a moment and presently, "Maren, maid," he said.

"Yes?"

"Hold you aught against me for the stand I took that day--the duty I
saw first?"

"Against you, Prix?--the truest, bravest friend I own? Nay, man,--you
are my staff, my hope, my courage. Would I had had your strength these
heavy days."

"Would to the good God you had! It shall not fail you again."

Maren held out her hand and Laroux grasped it in a clasp of faith.

"See!" cried Tessa Bibye, peeping eagerly from among the women, "she
holds hands with that blackhaired man of her people who spurs the rest.
One man or another,--as Francette says,--little cat!--all are fish who
come to Ma'amselle's net! The factor, or the cavalier, or a common
voyageur.

"Can they not see, these fool men, that the woman is a venturess,
playing with all?"

"You lie, Tessa Bibye!"

Micene Bordoux had passed unnoticed. Now she turned her accusing glance
on the loose-tongued girl.

"Because you are so small of soul yourself, are your eyes blinded to
the greater heights? Ma'amselle is lost in the clouds above you."

She went on, and Maren at the factory door turned to enter.

"Give the word,--and make all haste. Fix all things as you think best."

The great trading-room, lined with its shelves and circled with
counters, was empty, save for a clerk, Gifford, who cast accounts in
the big book on the factor's desk, and Maren's footsteps rang heavy to
her ears as she passed through it to the little room behind, where she
could see Rette passing back and forth at her tasks of mercy.

She stopped at the open door and looked within that little room. Here
were the things of McElroy's life,--the plain chairs, the table, the
shelf with its books, the chest against the western wall, and on the
bed, pulled out to get the breeze, lay the man himself prone in his
splendid strength.

The light from the setting sun was on his head with its fair hair and
flushed face, rolling restlessly from side to side. There was no reason
in the earnest blue eyes, and Maren felt a mighty anguish swell and
grip her throat as she stood looking on the pathetic scene.

"Come in, Ma'amselle," whispered Rette from her motherly heart, drawn
by sight of her haggard face, but Maren's eyes had fallen on a little
figure huddled on the far side of the bed with its face buried against
McElroy's left hand.

She knew the small head running over with black curls.

"Nay, Rette," she said quietly, "I would speak a moment with you."

The woman came out and closed the door.

"Poor little fool!" she whispered, "she is worn to a shadow with these
weeks of weeping, and, now that he is back, will not give over hanging
to his hand like one drowning."

"Heed not. Is it in your heart, Rette, to do a deed of kindness for me,
to keep a word of faith?"

"With all my heart, Ma'amselle!"

"Then," whispered Maren, apart from the clerk's listening ears, "take
you this letter. Keep it until M'sieu the factor is in his right mind,
then give it him with your own hands. If he--if he should--burn it,
Rette, unopened."

And she gave into the woman's keeping the only letter she had ever
written to a man.

It was in French, and the script was fine and finished.

This was what she had said, alone in the little room with its eastern
window at the end of the Baptiste cabin:

"MONSIEUR MCELROY, Factor of Fort de Seviere, ave atque vale." (The
tender word of Father Tenau when he blessed her that last time in Grand
Portage)

"The time has come when I must take my people out of your post, must
break their contract and their word. Forgive them, M'sieu, and lay not
the fault to them, for I, and I only, am to blame. But the time I
promised is too long.... I can no longer hold back the tide of longing
which drives me to that land of which we spoke once...." (Here there
was a break in the letter, a smudge on the page, as if the quill had
caught the paper or a drop of moisture run into the ink.)

"I must go forward, and at once, to the Athabasca. The great quest is
strong at my heartstrings again. I thank you, M'sieu, for all kindness
done my people, and I promise that, should fortune favour them and me
in that far land to which we journey, they shall send what trade lies
with them to De Seviere. For one thing I ask,--if it be possible,
M'sieu, give to certain men who will be found by word to Mr. Mowbray of
York, such stipend as you can, for they were good and faithful,--
namely, Frith and Wilson and McDonald, Brilliers and Alloybeau....
Adieu, M'sieu. God send you health. (Signed)

"MAREN LE MOYNE, of Grand Portage."

Laroux was worth his word.

Forty-eight hours later there stood at the portal of Fort de Seviere,
ready for the trail, that small band of wanderers who had come into it
in the early spring.

They were fuller of hope, more eager to face the wilderness than on
that day, for joy after sorrow sat blithely on their faces, turned to
the tall young woman at their head. And they were fully equipped for
travel. Three canoes held wealth of supplies, while six huskies whined
in leash, nervous under new masters, touched with the knowledge of
coming change.

Not a man in De Seviere who had not given gladly, nay, vied with his
neighbour to give, to the helping of this woman.

Had they not their factor back from death and its torments?

There was God-speed and hearty handclasp from the men, and Maren smiled
into their faces, reading their simple hearts.

With the women it was different. They hung, gazing, on the outskirts,
calling farewell to Marie, who wept a little at sight of her deserted
cabin, to Anon and Mora and Ninette, but there was no reflection of the
feeling of their masters for this girl with her weary beauty, her
steady, half-tragic eyes. Nor was there great regret over Micene. Too
sharp had been her tongue, too keen her perception of their faults.

True, the autumn was near at hand. Winter would come with its myriad
foes before they could hope to be ready for it, and Maren, looking far
ahead, saw it and its dangers, and her heart sickened a bit with the
thought of her people; but the thing within was stronger than all else.

She must leave De Seviere at once. Therefore, she raised her head with
her face to the west.

It was early dawn again. It seemed that it had ever been dawn when
fateful things had happened in this post, every log and stone of which
was suddenly dear to her.

She stood in the opened gate and looked back upon it, on the cabins,
the well where De Courtenay had placed his first red flower in her
hair, the storehouses, and the factory.

The factory!

With sight of it once more the wave of anguish swept over her. She saw
the small plain room at the back, the figure of a man prone in his
helplessness, a fair head with blue eyes, pleading in their honest
clearness, and her lips trembled.

"Ready?" she said, and the deep voice slipped unsteadily.

"Aye," answered Prix Laroux, and picked up the last pack of chattels.

At that moment there was a flurry among the pressing men around, a
sound above the many voices wishing them luck, and little Francette
broke through.

"Ma'amselle!" she cried, looking up into Maren's eyes with conflicting
expressions on her small face, misery and solemn joy and hatred that
strove to soften itself beneath a better emotion; "Ma'amselle,--I would
thank you! Oh, bon Dieu! I am not all bad! Here"

She seized Loup by the ears and dragged him forward, snarling. "Take
him, Ma'amselle! I love him! Do you take him,--and--and-understand!"

All her red-rose beauty had gone from the little maid along with her
dancing lightness.

These long weeks had turned her into a woman with a woman's heart.

They drew back and looked on with wonder, and then smiles of amusement,
but Maren, gazing into the tragic little face, saw deeper.

"Why,--little one," she said gently, unconsciously falling into
McElroy's words after a trick she had, "I--I understand. You need not
give up the dog,--I know what you would say."

"No!" cried Francette fiercely. "No! Take him! Take him! I will make
you take him! I will!"

She was whimpering, and Maren, stooping, laid a hand on the husky's
collar.

Without more words she turned and followed her people down to the
landing, half-dragging the brute, who hung back and turned his giant
head to the little maid, standing with her hands over her face.

He snarled and bit at Maren's wrist, but she picked him up and flung
him, half-dragging on the ground, for he was a mighty beast, into the
first canoe.

"Push off," she said; and, taking her place in the prow, she raised her
face to the cool blue sky, and turned once more to that West whose
voice had  called from her cradle, but, with some strange perversity of
fate, her heart drew back to the squat stockade slowly fading into the
distance.

The sweet wind of the Whispering Hills was very faint on her soul.



CHAPTER XXIX BITTER ALOES

Eight months passed over the country of the Assiniboine, bringing their
changes. The short full-tide of the summer seemed to run out with the
going of the venturers, and the autumn to come from the north-west in a
night.

Great splashes of colour dropped on the land, spilled from the palette
of some careless giant,--gold and crimson and purple. Glorious fires
burned in the cooling skies and the sweet breath of autumn tingled in
the air.

There was comment, and the shaking of heads among the old trappers. The
wrong time of year to take the long trail with women,--the wrong time,
but, bon Dieu! who was to stop that woman with the sombre eyes? Voila!
A woman to thrill the blood in any man who was still warm with life!

"Love awakened in her would be a thing of flame and fury, they had
thought, that long past day," thought Pierre Garcon to himself; "he and
that friend of his heart, Marc Dupre,--it had been a thing of patient
servitude, of transcendent daring, and Marc Dupre; ah! He had been a
part of it. But there was much of mystery about it all, and no one
knew, nor would any know, all that it had meant."

So the changes came and passed, and when Anders McElroy again opened
his eyes to reason, the world was white against the pane of the one
window of the little room,--the long snows had arrived. Winter was upon
the Northland.

It was on a night when the wind without howled like a lost soul shut
out from the universe and the sucking of the chimney-throat roared to
heaven.

Edmonton Ridgar sat at the hearth gazing into the leaping flames, and
Rette de Lancy passed and repassed among the shifting shadows, busy at
some kindly task.

Long he lay, this man returned from the Borderland of the Unknown, and
stared weakly at the familiar sights that were yet touched with a
puzzling strangeness.

It seemed that this was all as it should be, and yet there was
something lacking,--a great gap, whose images and happenings were wiped
out as a cloth wipes clean a slate,--a space of darkness, of
blankness, whose empty void held prescience of some great sadness. He
lay on his side facing the fire, and twice he thought to speak to
Ridgar with a question of this strangeness, and each time he was
conscious of a vast surprise that the man did not answer.

His lips, so long unused to sane direction, had made no sound in the
roar of the night.

And then Ridgar, drawn by that intangible sense of eyes upon him,
raised his head; and, as their glances met, that great void flashed
suddenly into full panoply of life peopled with a ring of painted faces
against the background of a night forest, a leaping fire, and the
heroic figure of a tall woman who stood in the dancing light and threw
a hatchet at a painted post.

Ridgar's eyes, as he had seen them in the dimness of the outskirts of
that massed circle, brought back the lost period of time and all that
had passed therein.

He stared wildly at him, and then around the firelit room.

"Ah!" said Ridgar softly, getting slowly to his feet with a smile at
once tender and exaggeratedly calm. "You have awakened, have you; eh,
lad? Would you sleep the whole night away as well as the day?"

He came to the bed and took McElroy's hand tenderly in his, while he
gave Rette a warning glance.

McElroy tried to rise, but only his head obeyed, lifting itself a bit
from the pillow to fall helplessly back.

He looked up at Ridgar with a look that cut that good man's heart, so
full was it of wild entreaty and piteous grief.

"Maren?" whispered the weak lips. "Maren,--where--?" And they, too,
failed him."

"Safe," said Ridgar gently; "all is well. We are at De Seviere and
there is no need to think. Do you drink a sip of Rette's good broth and
sleep again."

With a sigh of ineffable relief the sick man obeyed like a child,
falling back into the shadows, though this time they were the blessed
shades of the Vale of Healing Rest.

Rette in a corner was wiping her eyes and saying, over and over, a
prayer of thanksgiving for deliverance from death.

With infinite tact Ridgar kept him quiet, promising the tale of what
had happened, and, when the flow of returning life could no longer be
stemmed, he set himself the task of telling what he knew of those swift
days.

It was again night, though a week of nights had passed since that on
which the factor had awakened to consciousness, and Ridgar had
dismissed Rette.

There was only the roar of the wind without, the whistle of the fire,
and the two men alone in the room as they had been many a winter's
night.

"Now,--where shall I begin?" said the chief trader, gazing into the
fire. "At what point?"

"Maren," said McElroy eagerly, from the bed; "begin with her."

Ridgar shook his head.

"Nay, it goes farther back. Let it begin with the leaving of De Seviere
and the coldness of my bearing to you.... Did you never think, lad,
that it was but a blind, covering the determination to help you at the
first opportunity? Thought you the friendship of years so poor a thing
as to be turned in a day? Day by day my heart ached for some word with
you, or even a glance that would make all straight; but those painted
devils watched my every move, my every look, the very intaking of my
breath, as the coyote watches the gopher-hole when the badger is below.
Only for sake of the dead chief at my feet was I given such seemingly
free leave among them,--for myself, I had been shipped as were poor De
Courtenay's Nor'westers at Wenusk Creek. And now is the time when I
must go farther back and tell you of the good chief who was my father,
indeed, at heart."

Ridgar paused a moment, and his eyes took on a look of distant things

"Have you not wondered how it was, lad, that a man should live long as
I have lived in the wilderness, alone, without ties other than those
which bind him to the Great Company, without love of woman, without the
joy of children?...I have not always lived so. Time was when I had my
own wickiup, when I lay by my own night-fire and played with the braids
of a woman's hair,--long black braids, bound with crimson silk and
heavy with ornaments, for whose buying I paid my year's catch, when I
looked into eyes black as the woods at night and dumb with the great
love she could not speak.... She lived it one day,...nay, died it--when
I had some words with a young man of the tribe, who drew a spear before
I knew what he meant and hurled it at me. She...leaped between. God!"

He ceased again, and McElroy could hear his breathing, see the whitened
knuckles of his hands grasping the poker from the hearth where he had
absently stirred the leaping fire.

"It went quite through her,--a foot beyond her swelling breast, full
for my only child, unborn.... She was Negansahima's daughter.... We
mourned together, the old chief and I, and our hearts were bound close
as the tree and its bark. In a far high hill of the Pays d'en Haut we
put her to sleep with that last look of love on her dark face...and we
made a pact to lie beside her when our time should come, he who out-
lived the other to see the rites of the Death Feast. He has joined her.
I saw his rites. So for this end, reaching far back, I did not return
when you came back to De Seviere, going on with that rabble who dared
not harm me who am to share the Sleep of Chiefs some day....

"So!

"Now for the rest. I know no more of Maren Le Moyne than that first
tragic sight of her, hauled into the light by the brute DesCaut. I only
know that she stood before those savages as fearless as a lioness and
threw again and again, her black head up and sane, her young body under
her own command in every taut cord and muscle, and that again and again
and yet again the flying hatchet landed in its own cleft,--a wonderful
performance!--putting off with coolness and skill the death they would
see her decide, choosing neither man of you."

"But," cried McElroy, "it was De Courtenay she came to see,--to save,--
to die with,--she loved him, man!"

"Aye,--maybe. But I know only that that young trapper, Marc Dupre, gave
his life as gallantly as might be to cover our retreat while we, the
Nor'wester and I, slipping among the sleepers, carried you to the
river; that they woke, those devils, before we had cleared the little
gorge, and that M'sieu de Courtenay, brave man and gay cavalier, gave
your knees to this woman who helped me get you to the canoe, himself
taking the only gun and meeting what fate was his in the narrow seam
among the rocks. She had with her men of Mr. Mowbray's brigade, that
she had got somewhere on Winnipeg, and we put you in their waiting
canoe. She was dragged in among the thwarts,--while I--slipped back
among the shadows, circled the camp, and was at my death-watch inside
the big tepee when peering eyes looked in. I saw no more of the dashing
Nor'wester, save a flash of long gold curls at a headman's belt. What
fate was meted out to him was swift and therefore merciful. Peace be to
him!

"No more I know, my friend, save that, when I returned to De Seviere, I
found you ill with some fever of the brain."

"But, Ridgar, for love of Heaven, what of Maren?"

"She had brought you here, and Rette says the women hung off from her
and laughed in corners, whispering and talking, and that her face was
worn and greatly changed, as if with some deep sorrow."

McElroy turned his head upon the pillow and weak tears smarted under
his lids.

"Me! It was I she saved when it was I who slew her lover! God forgive
me, for I cannot forgive myself!"

"Nay, boy, hush! It is all as God wills. We are but shuttles in the web
of this tangled life."

"But--tell me,--what does she now? How looks her dear face?"

Ridgar was silent a moment, and McElroy repeated his question, with his
face still turned away:

"Does she pass among them,--the vipers? Does she seem to care for life
at all now?"

"Lad," said Ridgar gently, "I know not, for she is gone."

"Gone!"

The pale man on the pillow sprang upright, staring at the other with
open mouth.

"Aye, softly, boy; softly! She has been gone these many weeks; even
while summer was here she gathered her people, outfitted by our men,
all of whom were so glad for your deliverance that they gave readily to
their debt, and took up again her long trail to the Athabasca. Rette, I
believe, has a letter which she left for you.... Would you read it
now?"

McElroy nodded dumbly, and Ridgar went out in the night to Rette's
cabin for this last link between the factor and the woman he loved.

When he returned, and McElroy had taken it in his shaking hands, he sat
down and turned his face to the fire.

There was silence while the flames crackled and the chimney roared, and
presently the factor said heavily:

"I cannot! Read..."

So Ridgar, bending in the light, read aloud Maren's letter.

At its end the man on the bed turned his face to the wall and spoke no
more.

From that time forth the tide of returning life in him stopped
sluggishly, as if the locks were set in some ocean-tapping channel.

The bleakness of the cold north winter was in his heart and life was
barren as the eastern meadows.

So passed the days and the weeks, with quip and jest from Ridgar, whose
eyes wore a puzzled expression; with such coddling and coaxing from
Rette as would have spoiled a well man, and, with not the least to be
counted, daily visits to the factory of the little Francette, who
defied the populace and came openly.

With returned consciousness to McElroy, there came back to the little
maid much of her damask beauty. The pretty cheeks bloomed again and she
was like some bright butterfly flitting about the bare room in her red
kirtle.

Sometimes McElroy would smile, watching her play with a young bob-cat,
which some trapper had brought her from the woods, and whose savage
playfulness seemed to be held in leash under her small hands. The
creature would mouth and fawn upon her, taking her cuffs and slaps, and
follow her about like a dog.

Rette tolerated the two with a bad grace, for, since the day when Maren
Le Moyne had stood at the door with her haggard beauty so wistfully
sad, her sympathies had been all with the strange girl of Grand
Portage.

Light and flitting, sparkling as an elf, full to the brim of laughter
and light, little Francette was playing the deepest game of her life.

With the cunning of a woman she was trying to woo this man back to the
joy of earth, to wind herself into his heart, and so to fill his hours
with her brightness that he would come to need her always.

So she came by day and day, and now it would be some steaming dainty
cooked at her father's hearth by her own hands, again a branch of the
fir-tree coated with ice and sparkling with a million gems, that she
brought into the dull blankness of the room, and with her there always
came a fresh sweet breath of the winter world without.

McElroy smiled at her pretty conceits, her babbling talk, her gambols,
and her gifts.

"What have you done with Loup, little one?" he asked, one day. "Does he
wait on the steps to growl at this usurper purring at your heels?"

The little maid grew pearly white and looked away at Rette fearfully,
as if at sudden loss, in danger of some betrayal.

"Nay," she said, "Loup...is an ingrate. He has ceased to care."

And always after she avoided aught that could excite mention of the
dog.

But, in spite of all her effort, McElroy lay week after week in the
back room, looking for hours together into the red heart of the fire,
silent, uncomplaining, in no apparent pain, but shiftless as an Indian
in the matter of life.

The business of the factory was brought to him nightly by Ridgar and
the young clerk Gifford, and he would look over things and make a few
suggestions, dispose of this and that as a matter of course and fall
back into his lethargy.

"What think you, M'sieu?" asked Rette anxiously, of Ridgar. "Is there
naught to stir him from these hours of dulness?"

"I know not, Rette. Would I did! The surgeon says there is nothing
wrong with the man, save lack of desire to live. He has lost the love
of life."

And so it seemed. Weeks dragged themselves by and months rolled after
them, and still he lay in a great weakness that held his strong limbs
as in a vice.

Winter was roaring itself away with tearing winds, with snow that fell
and drifted against the stockade wall, and fell again, with vast
silences and cold that glazed the surface of the world with ice.

January dragged slowly by, with dances for the young couples in the
cabins at nights, and little Francette, for the first time in her life,
refused to share in the merry-making of which she had always been the
heart and soul.

Instead, she lay awake in the attic of the Moline cabin and cried in
her hands, listening to the whirl of the nights without.

Alone in those long vigils instinct was telling her that she had
failed. Failed utterly!

The young factor cared no more for her than on that night in spring
when he had kissed her and told her to "play in the sunshine and think
no more of him."

She had played for a man and failed.

Moreover, she had not played fairly, and for her wickedness he lay now
as he had lain so long, drifting slowly but surely toward that land of
shadows whence there is no return.

She clinched her small hands in the darkness and wept, and they were
woman's tears.

Back to her led all the threads of tragedy, of death and danger and
heartbreak, that had so hopelessly tangled themselves in Fort de
Seviere.

But for that one hour at the factory steps what time she lay in
McElroy's arms and saw Maren Le Moyne pause at the corner, all would be
well.

Young Marc, Dupre would be singing his gay French songs with his red
cap tilted on his curls, that handsome Nor'wester of the Saskatchewan
would be going his merry way, loving here and there,--instead of
bleaching their bones in some distant forest, as the whispers said;
and, last of all, this man she loved with all the intensity of her soul
would be brown and strong with life, not the weary wreck of a man who
gazed into the fire and would not get well.

So the long nights took toll of the little Francette and a purpose grew
in her chastened heart, a purpose far too big for it.

At last the purpose blossomed into full maturity, hastened by the dark
shadows that were beginning to spread beneath McElroy's hopeless eyes,
as if the spirit, so little in the body, were already leaving it to its
earthly end, and one day at dusk, trembling and afraid, she went to the
factory for the last time.

"Rette," she said plaintively, "will you leave me alone with M'sieu the
factor for an hour? Think what you will," she added fiercely, as she
saw the woman's look; "tell all the populace! I care not! Only give me
one hour! Mon Dieu! A little space to pay the debt of life! Leave me,
Rette, as you hope for Heaven!"

And Rette, wondering and vaguely touched, complied.

McElroy was looking, after his habit, at the leaping flames and his
thin hands played absently and constantly with the covering of the bed,
when the door opened and closed and the little maid stood shrinking
against it.

He did not look up for long, thinking, if his dull mind could form a
thought through his melancholy dreams, that Ridgar had come in.

At last a sigh that was like a gasp pierced his lethargy and he raised
his eyes.

She stood with one small hand over her beating heart and her cheeks
white in the firelight.

"Ah! little one!" he said gently. "Why did you come through such a
night? 'Tis wild as--as--Sit in the big chair," he added kindly.

But Francette, in whose face was an unbearable anguish, came swiftly
and fell on her knees beside the bed, raising her eyes to his.

"M'sieu!" she cried, with great labouring breaths. "Oh! M'sieu, I have
come to confess! If there is in your good heart pity for one who has
sinned beyond pardon, give it me, I pray, for love of the good God!"
McElroy stared down at her in wonder.

"Confess? Sinned?" he said. "Why, little one, what can a child like you
know of sin? 'Tis only some blunderer like myself who should speak its
damnable name."

"Nay, nay! Oh, no! No! No! Not on you is there one lightest touch,
M'sieu, but on me,--me--me--does rest the weight of all!"

Her eyes were wide and full of tears, and McElroy laid a weak hand on
her head.

"Hush, child!" he said, with some of his old sternness, when
condemning wrong; "there is a fever at your brain. You have come too
long to this dull room--"

"No! No! Take away your hand! Touch me not, M'sieu, for I am as dust
beneath your feet! I alone am at bottom of all that has happened in
Fort de Seviere this year past! Through me alone have come death and
sorrow and misunderstanding! I caused it all, M'sieu, because I--loved
you! For love of you and hope to gain your heart I set you apart from
that woman of Grand Portage!"

She buried her face on the covering of the bed and her voice came
muffled and choking.

"That night at the factory steps,--you recall, M'sieu,--she came to
you,--I saw her in the dusk as she turned at the corner, a rod away,
saw her and knew with some touch of deviltry the sudden way of keeping
you from her, your arms from about her, your lips from hers! Oh, that I
could not bear, M'sieu! Not though I died for it! So I threw my own
arms about your throat--you remember, M'sieu--and whispered that for
one kiss I would go and forget. In the gentleness of your heart you
kissed me--and--she saw that kiss. Saw me lying in your arms as if you
held me there from love,--saw and turned away. She made no sound in the
soft dust, and when I loosed your face from my clasp she was gone! So I
broke your faith, M'sieu,--so I dragged forth one by one all the sorry
happenings that have followed that evil night."

The muffled voice fell silent, save for the sobs that would no longer
be withheld, and there was an awful stillness in the room, broken by a
stick falling on the hearth and the added roar in the chimney.

When Francette raised her weeping eyes she saw McElroy's face above her
like a mask.

Its lips were open as if breath had suddenly been denied them, its
wasted cheeks were blue, and its eyes stared down upon her in horror:

"Oh! O God! Rette!"

She screamed and sprang up, to run back and crouch against the empty
chair beside the hearth.

The figure upon the bed, half-risen, worked its lips and then fell
back, and the little maid raised her voice and screamed again and again
in mortal terror.

It brought Rette running from where she had waited in the trading-room.

She raised him, and her face was red with rage.

"What have you done! You evil cat! What have you done to the man?"

But McElroy's breast had heaved with a great breath, sweet as the wind
over a harvest field to a tired man, and he looked up at Rette with
eyes that seemed to be suddenly flooded with life.

"Done?" he whispered; "done, Rette? The child has given me salvation!"
And then he held out a shaking, thin hand.

"Come here," he said softly; "come here."

Fearful, trembling, tear-stained Francette crept back, and the factor
took both her small hands in a tender clasp:

"I thank you, little one," he said, "from my heart I thank you,--there
is nothing to forgive. We are all sinners through the only bit of
Heaven we possess,--love. Go, little one, and cease this crying. Know
that I shall sleep this night in a mighty peace. You have given me--
life!"



CHAPTER XXX THE LAND OF THE WHISPERING HILLS

Springtime once more kissed all the wilderness into tender green. From
the depths of the forest, lacing its myriad branches in finest fluff of
young leaves, came the old-new sound of birds at the mating, rivers and
tiny streams rushed and tumbled to the lakes, and overhead a sky as
blue and sweet as the eyes of loved rocked its baby clouds in cradles
of fresh winds.

They blew over vast reaches of forest and plain, these winds, wimpling
the new grass with playful fingers, and whispering in the ear of bird
and bee and flower that spring was come once more.

They came from the west, sweeping over sweet high meadows, over rushing
streams, and down from fair plateaus, and their breath was fresh and
cool with promise to one who faced them, eager in his hope, for they
brought the virgin sweetness of the Land of the Whispering Hills. By
streams, clear as crystal, he passed with a swinging stride, this lean
young man in the buckskins of the forest traveller, over meadows soft
in their green carpets, through woodlands whose flecked sunshine
quivered and shook on the young moss beneath, and ever his face was
lifted to the west with undying hope, with calmness of faith, and that
great joy which is humble in its splendour.

Thus he swung forward all through the pleasant hours of that last day.
Before him, raised against the sky, there loomed the magic Hills
themselves, fair to the eye of man, clothed in the green of blowing
grass and girdled about below with the encroaching forest.

At dusk he set foot upon their swelling slopes, and knew himself to be
near the goal of his heart's desire.

Over among them somewhere lay the blue lake. He could already hear the
murmur of its whispering shores, the roar of its circling forests, for
the trees followed on and over through some low defile as if loath to
lose the hills themselves, rising to heaven in virgin smoothness of
cloud-shadowed verdure.

The sun had gone behind them in splendid panoply of fire when he came
down into the sheltered woods, and through them to a wondrous meadow,
beautiful as the fields of Paradise, sloping, to the shore beyond where
waters blue as the sky above sent back the pageantry of light.

Here were the signs of tillage and cultivation, and even now a long
dark strip attested the spring's new work, sending forth on the evening
air the sweet scent of fresh-turned earth.

Beyond, across the field, in the edge of the farther woods, thin blue
smoke curled peacefully up from the pointed tops of some forty native
lodges, while nearer the lake there stood two cabins, one old and solid
with a look of having faced the elements for years, the other staring
in its newness. Indian ponies grazed at the clearing's edge or drank of
the rippling waters on the pebbly beach, and a plough lay in the last
furrow.

The stranger stood in amaze and gazed on the scene before him.

While he looked women came from the cabins and passed blithely about at
evening tasks, and one went to the lake with a vessel for water. He
could see its gleam in the reflection of the gorgeous light.

Thin and high came the sound of a voice singing, the ring of an axe
somewhere in the wood beyond the cabins, and peace ineffable seemed to
lie upon this blessed place. Here truly was Arcadia.

Long he stood in the fringe of the forest and looked eagerly among the
distant figures for one, taller than all the rest, clad in plain dark
garments, whose regal head should catch the dying glow, but strain as
he might, he saw no familiar form, could not detect the free and
swinging step.

Now that the goal of his hope was so near, within the very grasp of his
hand, a strange timidity fell upon him, and he shrank from crossing the
open field.

Rather would he follow the circling wood and come out at the upper end
by the lake, going down along the shore to the cabins.

Keeping well within the trees, giants of the wild nursed in this cradle
of sun and water, he bore to the north and ever his eager eyes peered
between the bolls at the distant habitat.

He had gone but short space when, suddenly, he stopped, drawn up by
sight of what lay in his path.

He had pierced a thicket of hanging vines, too eager to go around, and
come abruptly upon some pagan shrine, some savage Holy of Holies.

And yet not wholly savage, for the signs of the red man and the white
were strangely blended.

In the centre of the open space within the hanging wall of the vines,--
perfect sylvan temple,--there lay a mounded grave, covered from head to
foot with articles he knew at once to be the gifts of Indians to some
great chief gone to the shadowy hunting-grounds. Rich they were, these
gifts, in workmanship and carving, though mean and poor in quality,
showing that great love had attended their giving, though the givers
themselves must be a meagre people.

At the head of the mound towered a gigantic totem pole, carved and
painted with scenes of a most minute history, while at the foot of a
smaller stake, alike carved and coloured, bore, one upon another,
twelve rings of bone, each one of which stood for the circle of a year.

Crossed and shielded with infinite care, in the centre there lay a set
of smith's tools, crudely fashioned and well worn, tongs and a heavy
hammer and a small anvil.

But beyond all this, a thing that held his wondering gaze and brought
the fur cap from his head, there stood an altar, rude as the rest, but
still an altar of God, with a black iron crucifix, whose pale ivory
Christ glimmered in the gathering evening, upright upon it. Before the
crucifix, and at either end, were the burnt-out evidences of tallow
candles, while flanking the holy Symbol there stood two wooden crosses,
their pieces held together by bindings of thread. Before one there lay
a heap of little withered flowers, frail things of the forest and the
spring, and every one was snowy white. Across the other hung a solitary
blossom, first of its kind to open its passionate eyes to the sun, and
it was blood-red, counterpart of that wee star which Alfred de
Courtenay had snatched from the stockade wall one day in another
spring.

The earnest blue eyes of the man were very grave, touched with a deep
tenderness.

"Maren!" he whispered reverently; "maid of the splendid heart!"

So deep was he in contemplation of the things before him and his own
holy thoughts that he did not hear a soft sound behind him, the fall of
a light step.

A breath that was half a gasp turned him on his heel.

Leaning through the parted curtain of the hanging vines, one hand at
her throat, the other holding three candles, and her dark eyes wide
above her thinned brown cheeks, she stood herself. At her knee there
hung the heavy head of the great dog, Loup.

She, as she had been when first he looked upon her, yet intangibly
changed, the same yet not the same.

They stood in silence and looked into each other's eyes as if void of
speech, of motion, held by the mighty yearning that must look and look
with insatiable intensity, the half unreal reality of the moment.

And then the stopped breath in the girl's throat caught itself with a
little sound that broke the spell.

The man sprang forward and took her in his arms, not passionately,
strongly, as he had done once before, but with a love so high, so
chastened, so humble that it gentled his touch to reverence.

"I have come, Maren," he said brokenly; "I have followed you to the
land you sought. Maid of my heart! My soul!"

Without words, without question, she yielded herself to his embrace,
lifted her face to him and gave into his keeping that which was his
from the beginning.

"Mother Mary! I thank Thee!" he heard her whisper, and when he loosed
her to look once more into her level eyes, they were dim with tears.


      .     .     .      .     .     .     .      .     .     


Night had fallen on the Athabasca when they passed out of the wood
across the field, and they walked together hand in hand.

A great round moon was rising over the eastern forest, silvering the
hills with shining crowns.

Peace brooded on the world.

"And here I found him, M'sieu," Maren Le Moyne was saying sadly, "in
that low mound, cared for and worshipped by these peaceful beings who
till the land and follow his teachings. They were his people. He taught
them purity and peace, the use of plough and tool, the creed of love
and kindness. Here was his dream of empire, his plan of progress. He of
the Good Heart they called him, these Indians who were his people, and
mourn him as a chief. That was his castle yonder, the older cabin to
the east. Here is the fruit of his labour." She motioned over the new-
ploughed land.

"Beyond the trees yonder are bigger fields, a wider holding. And yet
they are poor, these people of peace. The tribes despise them and scoff
at their worship...He taught them the prayers,--the rosary. I have come
after him...Who knows? This is my dream also, my fulfilment. Love,
M'sieu," she raised her face to him, and the deep eyes flickering with
the old elusive light, "Love shall be my crown!"

"Aye," said Anders McElroy, after the manner of a covenant, "together
we shall work and dream yet greater things, trusting in God,--live and
love and enter into our heritage.... I have left the Company forever.
Together we shall build the empire of your dreams.... Oh, Maid of my
Heart, the Long Trail has ended in the harbour of New Homes!"











Produced by Carrie Fellman




The Young Musician

OR

Fighting His Way

BY

HORATIO ALGER

CHICAGO






CONTENTS





I. A Candidate for the Poorhouse

II. Philip at Home

III. Nick Holden's Call

IV. The Auction

V. An Alliance Against Philip

VI. "A Fuss About a Fiddle"

VII. Mr. Job Tucker

VIII. In the Enemy's Hands

IX. The Poorhouse

X. Bad Tidings

XI. Philip's New Room

XII. A Pauper's Meal

XIII. A Friendly Mission

XIV. Philip Makes His Escape

XV. Escape and Flight

XVI. A Night Adventure

XVII. A Reformed Burglar

XVIII. A Professional Engagement

XIX. New Acquaintances

XX. A Lively Evening

XXI. Fortune Smiles Again

XXII. Rival Musicians

XXIII. An Hour of Triumph

XXIV. Lorenzo Riccabocca

XXV. A Change of Name

XXVI. A Promising Plan

XXVII. Unexpected Honors

XXVIII. A Triumphant Success

XXIX. Beset by Creditors

XXX. A Timely Gift

XXXI. The Professor's Flight

XXXII. The Race Across Fields

XXXIII. The Lost Wallet

XXXIV. A New Business Proposal

XXXV. Squire Pope Is Amazed

XXXVI. The Pretended Guardian

XXXVII. His Own Master

XXXVIII. An Offer Declined

XXXIX. An Ambitious Wayfarer

XL. The Indian Hunter

XXI. An Adventure in the Woods

XLII. An Indian at Last

XLIII. A Welcome Letter

XLIV. A Fresh Start






CHAPTER I.

A CANDIDATE FOR THE POORHOUSE.





"As for the boy," said Squire Pope, with his usual autocratic air,
"I shall place him in the poorhouse."

"But, Benjamin," said gentle Mrs. Pope, who had a kindly and
sympathetic heart, "isn't that a little hard?"

"Hard, Alrnira?" said the squire, arching his eyebrows. "I fail to
comprehend your meaning."

"You know Philip has been tenderly reared, and has always had a
comfortable home--"

"He will have a comfortable home now, Mrs. Pope. Probably you are
not aware that it cost the town two thousand dollars last year to
maintain the almshouse. I can show you the item in the town report."

"I don't doubt it at all, husband," said Mrs. Pope gently. "Of
course you know all about it, being a public man."

Squire Pope smiled complacently. It pleased him to be spoken of as a
public man.

"Ahem! Well, yes, I believe I have no inconsiderable influence in
town affairs," he responded. "I am on the board of selectmen, and am
chairman of the overseers of the poor, and in that capacity I shall
convey Philip Gray to the comfortable and well-ordered institution
which the town has set apart for the relief of paupers."

"I don't like to think of Philip as a pauper," said Mrs. Pope, in a
deprecating tone.

"What else is he?" urged her husband. "His father hasn't left a
cent. He never was a good manager."

"Won't the furniture sell for something, Benjamin?"

"It will sell for about enough to pay the funeral expenses and
outstanding debts-that is all."

"But it seems so hard for a boy well brought up to go to the
poorhouse."

"You mean well, Almira, but you let your feelings run away with you.
You may depend upon it, it is the best thing for the boy. But I must
write a letter in time for the mail."

Squire Pope rose from the breakfast-table and walked out of the room
with his usual air of importance. Not even in the privacy of the
domestic circle did he forget his social and official importance.

Who was Squire Pope?

We already know that he held two important offices in the town of
Norton. He was a portly man, and especially cultivated dignity of
deportment. Being in easy circumstances, and even rich for the
resident of a village, he was naturally looked up to and credited
with a worldly sagacity far beyond what he actually possessed.

At any rate, he may he considered the magnate of Norton.
Occasionally he visited New York, and had been very much annoyed to
find that his rural importance did not avail him there, and that he
was treated with no sort of deference by those whom he had occasion
to meet. Somehow, the citizens of the commercial metropolis never
suspected for a single moment that he was a great man.

When Squire Pope had finished his letter, he took his hat, and with
measured dignity, walked to the village post-office.

He met several of his neighbors there, and greeted them with affable
condescension. He was polite to those of all rank, as that was
essential to his retaining the town offices, which he would have
been unwilling to resign.

From the post-office the squire, as he remembered the conversation
which had taken place at the breakfast-table, went to make an
official call on the boy whose fate he had so summarily decided.

Before the call, it may be well to say a word about Philip Gray, our
hero, and the circumstances which had led to his present
destitution.

His father had once been engaged in mercantile business, but his
health failed, his business suffered, and he found it best-indeed,
necessary--to settle up his affairs altogether and live in quiet
retirement in Norton.

The expenses of living there were small, but his resources were
small, also, and he lived just long enough to exhaust them.

It was this thought that gave him solicitude on his death-bed, for
he left a boy of fifteen wholly unprovided for.

Let us go back a week and record what passed at the last interview
between Philip and his father before the latter passed into the
state of unconsciousness which preceded death.

"Are you in pain, father?" asked Philip, with earnest sympathy, as
his father lay outstretched on the bed, his face overspread by the
deathly pallor which was the harbinger of dissolution.

"Not of the body, Philip," said Mr. Gray. "That is spared me, but I
own that my mind is ill at ease."

"Do you mind telling me why, father!"

"No; for it relates to you, my son, or, rather, to your future. When
my affairs are settled, I fear there will be nothing left for your
support. I shall leave you penniless."

"If that is all, father, don't let that trouble you."

"I am afraid, Philip, you don't realize what it is to be thrown upon
the cold charities of the world."

"I shall work for my living," said Philip confidently.

"You will have to do that, I'm afraid, Philip."

"But I am not afraid to work, father. Didn't you tell me one day
that many of our most successful men had to work their way up from
early poverty!"

"Yes, that is true; but a boy cannot always get the chance to earn
his living. Of one thing I am glad; you have a good education for a
boy of your age. That is always a help."

"Thanks to you, father."

"Yes; though an invalid, I have, at all events, been able to give
private attention to your education, and to do better for you than
the village school would have done. I wish I had some relative to
whom I might consign you, but you will be alone in the world."

"Have I no relatives?" asked Philip.

"Your mother was an only child, and I had but one brother."

"What became of him, father?"

"He got into trouble when he was a young man, and left the country.
Where he went to I have no idea. Probably he went first to Europe,
and I heard a rumor, at one time, that he had visited Australia. But
that was twenty years ago. and as I have heard nothing of him since,
I think it probable that he is dead. Even if he were living, and I
knew where he was, I am not sure whether he would make a safe
guardian for you."

"Have you any advice to give me, father?" asked Philip, after a
pause. "Whatever your wishes may be, I will try to observe them."

"I do not doubt it, Philip. You have always been an obedient son,
and have been considerate of my weakness. I will think it over, and
try to give you some directions which may be of service to you.
Perhaps I may be able to think of some business friend to whom I can
commend you."

"You have talked enough, father," said Philip, noticing his father's
increasing pallor and the evident exertion with which he spoke.
"Rest now, and to-morrow we can talk again."

Mr. Gray was evidently in need of rest. He closed his eyes and
apparently slept. But he never awoke to consciousness. The
conversation above recorded was the last he was able to hold with
his son. For two days he remained in a kind of stupor, and at the
end of that time he died.

Philip's grief was not violent. He had so long anticipated his
father's death that it gave him only a mild shock.

Friends and neighbors made the necessary arrangements for the
funeral, and the last services were performed. Then, at length,
Philip realized that he had lost his best earthly friend, and that
he was henceforth alone in the world. He did not as yet know that
Squire Pope had considerately provided him with a home in the
village poorhouse.






CHAPTER II.

PHILIP AT HOME.





"When the funeral was over, Frank Dunbar, whom Philip regarded as
his most intimate friend, came up to him.

"Philip," he said, "my mother would like to have you spend a few
days with us while you are deciding what to do."

"Thank you, Frank!" answered Philip. "But until the auction I shall
remain at home. I shall soon enough be without a home."

"But it will be very lonely for you," objected Frank.

"No; I shall have my thoughts for company. When I am alone I can
think best of my future plans."

"Won't you come to our house to meals, then?"

"Thank you, Frank! I will do that."

"When is the auction to be?"

"To-day is Monday. It is appointed for Thursday."

"I hope there will be something left for you."

"There will be about enough left to pay my father's small debts and
his funeral expenses. I would not like to have him indebted to
others for those. I don't think there will be anything over."

Frank looked perplexed.

"I am sorry for you, Phil," he said. "I wish we were rich, instead
of having hard work to make both ends meet. You would not lack for
anything then."

"Dear Frank," said Philip earnestly, "I never doubted your true
friendship. But I am not afraid that I shall suffer. I am sure I can
earn my living."

"But why do you shut yourself up alone, Philip?" asked Frank, not
satisfied to leave his friend in what he considered the gloomy
solitude of a house just visited by death.

"I want to look over my father's papers. I may find out something
that I ought to know, and after the auction it will be too late.
Father had some directions to give me, but he did not live long
enough to do it. For three days I have the house to myself. After
that I shall perhaps never visit it again."

"Don't be downhearted, Philip," said Frank, pressing his hand with
boyish sympathy.

"I don't mean to be, Frank. I am naturally cheerful and hopeful. I
shall miss my poor father sadly: but grieving will not bring him
back. I must work for my living, and as I have no money to depend
upon, I cannot afford to lose any time in forming my plans."

"You will come over to our house and take your meals!"

"Yes, Frank."

Frank Dunbar's father was a small farmer, who, as Frank had said,
found it hard work to make both ends meet. Among all the village
boys, he was the one whom Philip liked best, though there were many
others whose fathers were in hotter circumstances. For this,
however, Philip cared little. Rich or poor, Frank suited him, and
they had always been known as chums, to adopt the term used by the
boys in the village.

It may be thought that as Philip's circumstances were no better,
such an intimacy was natural enough. But Philip Gray possessed
special gifts, which made his company sought after. He was a fine
singer, and played with considerable skill on the violin--an
accomplishment derived from his father, who had acted as his
teacher. Then he was of a cheerful temperament, and this is a gift
which usually renders the possessor popular, unless marred by
positive defects or bad qualities. There were two or three young
snobs in the village who looked down upon Philip on account of his
father's poverty, but most were very glad to associate with our
hero, and have him visit their homes. He was courteous to all, but
made--no secret of his preference for Frank Dunbar.

When Philip parted from Frank, and entered the humble dwelling which
had been his own and his father's home for years, there was a sense
of loneliness and desolation which came over him at first.

His father was the only relative whom he knew, and his death,
therefore, left the boy peculiarly, alone in the world. Everything
reminded him of his dead father. But he did not allow himself to
dwell upon thoughts that would depress his spirits and unfit him for
the work that lay before him.

He opened his father's desk and began to examine his papers. There
was no will, for there was nothing to leave, but in one compartment
of the desk was a thick wallet, which he opened.

In it, among some receipted bills, was an envelope, on which was
written, in his father's well-known hand:

"The contents of this envelope are probably of no value, but it will
be as well to preserve the certificate of stock. There is a bare
possibility that it may some day be worth a trifle."

Philip opened the envelope and found a certificate for a hundred
shares of the Excelsior Gold Mine, which appeared to be located in
California. He had once heard his father speak of it in much the
same terms as above.

"I may as well keep it," reflected Philip. "It will probably amount
to nothing, but there won't be much trouble in carrying around the
envelope." He also found a note of hand for a thousand dollars,
signed by Thomas Graham.

Attached to it was a slip of paper, on which he read, also in his
father's writing:

"This note represents a sum of money lent to Thomas Graham, when I
was moderately prosperous. It is now outlawed, and payment could not
be enforced, even if Graham were alive and possessed the ability to
pay. Five years since, he left this part of the country for some
foreign country, and is probably dead, and I have heard nothing from
him in all that time. It will do no harm, and probably no good, to
keep his note,"

"I will keep it," decided Philip. "It seems that this and the mining
shares are all that father had to leave me. They will probably never
yield me a cent, but I will keep them in remembrance of him."

Phillip found his father's watch. It was an old-fashioned gold
watch, but of no great value even when new. Now, after twenty years'
use, it would command a very small price at the coming sale.

Ever since Philip had been old enough to notice anything, he
remembered this watch, which was so closely identified with his
father that more than anything else it called him to mind. Philip
looked at it wistfully as it lay in his hand. "I wish I could keep
it," he said to himself. "No one else will value it much, but it
would always speak to me of my father. I wonder if I might keep it?"

Philip had a mind to put it into his pocket, but the spirit of
honesty forbade.

"It must be sold," he said, with a sigh. "Without it there wouldn't
be enough to pay what we owe, and when I leave Norton, I don't want
any one to say that my father died in his debt."

There was nothing else in the desk which called for particular
notice or appeared to be of any special value. After a careful
examination, Philip closed it and looked around at the familiar
furniture of the few rooms which the house contained.

There was one object which he personally valued more than anything
else. This was his violin, on which he had learned all that he knew
of playing. His father had bought it for him four years before. It
was not costly, but it was of good tone, and Philip had passed many
pleasant hours in practicing on it.

"I can take this violin, at any rate," said Philip to himself. "It
belongs to me, and no one else has a claim on it. I think I will
take it with me and leave it at Frank Dunbar's, so that it needn't
get into the sale."

He put back the violin into the case and laid it on one side. Then
he sat down in the arm-chair, which had been his father's favorite
seat, and tried to fix his mind upon the unknown future which lay
before him.

He had sat there for half an hour, revolving in his mind various
thoughts and plans, when he heard a tap on the window, and looking
up, saw through the pane the coarse, red face of Nick Holden, a
young fellow of eighteen, the son of the village butcher.

"Let me in!" said Nick; "I want to see you on business."






CHAPTER III.

NICK HOLDEN'S CALL.





Philip had never liked Nick Holden. He was a coarse, rough-looking
boy, his reddish face one mass of freckles, and about as
unattractive as a person could be, without absolute deformity. This,
however, was not the ground for Philip's dislike.

With all his unattractiveness, Nick might have possessed qualities
which would have rightly made him popular. So far from this,
however, he was naturally mean, selfish, and a bully, with very
slight regard for truth.

Will it be believed that, in spite of his homely face, Nick really
thought himself good-looking and aspired to be a beau? For this
reason he had often wished that he possessed Philip's accomplishment
of being able to play upon the violin.

His conversational powers were rather limited, and he felt at a loss
when he undertook to make himself fascinating to the young ladies in
the village. If he could only play on the violin like Philip he
thought he would be irresistible.

He had therefore conceived the design of buying Philip's instrument
for a trifle, judging that our hero would feel compelled to sell it.

The reader will now understand the object which led to Nick's call
so soon after the funeral of Mr. Gray. He was afraid some one else
might forestall him in gaining possession of the coveted instrument.

When Philip saw who his visitor was, he was not overjoyed. It was
with reluctance that he rose and gave admission to Nick.

"I thought I would call around and see you, Phil," said Nick, as he
sat down in the most comfortable chair in the room.

"Thank you," responded Phil coldly.

"The old man went off mighty sudden," continued Nicholas, with
characteristic delicacy.

"Do you mean my father?" inquired Philip.

"Of course I do. There ain't any one else dead, is there!"

"I had been expecting my poor father's death for some time," said
Philip gravely.

"Just so! He wa'n't very rugged. We've all got to come to it sooner
or later. I expect dad'll die of apoplexy some time-he's so awful
fat," remarked Nicholas cheerfully. "If he does, it's lucky he's got
me to run the business. I'm only eighteen, but I can get along as
well as anybody. I'm kinder smart in business."

"I am glad you are smart in anything," thought Philip; for he knew
that Nick was a hopeless dunce in school duties.

"I hope your father'll live a good while," he said politely.

"Yes, of course," said Nick lightly. "I'd be sorry to have the old
man pop off; but then you never can tell about such a thing as
that."

Philip did not relish the light way in which Nick referred to such a
loss as he was suffering from, and, by way of changing the subject,
said:

"I believe you said you came on business, Nicholas?"

"Yes; that's what I wanted to come at. It's about your fiddle."

"My violin!" said Philip, rather surprised.

"Oh, well, fiddle or violin! what's the odds? I want to buy it."

"What for?"

"To play on, of course! What did you think I wanted it for?"

"But you can't play, can you?"

"Not yet; but I expect you could show me some--now, couldn't you?"

"What put it into your head to want to play on the violin?" asked
Philip, with some curiosity.

"Why, you see, the girls like it. It would be kind of nice when I go
to a party, or marm has company, to scrape off a tune or two-just
like you do. It makes a feller kinder pop'lar with the girls, don't
you see?" said Nick, with a knowing grin.

"And you want to be popular with the young ladies!" said Philip,
smiling, in spite of his bereavement, at the idea being entertained
by such a clumsy-looking caliban as Nick Holden.

"Of course I do!" answered Nick, with another grin. "You see I'm
gettin' along-I'll be nineteen next month, and I might want to get
married by the time I'm twenty-one, especially if the old man should
drop off sudden."

"I understand all that, Nicholas--"

"Call me Nick. I ain't stuck up if I am most a man. Call me pet
names, dearest."

And Nicholas laughed loudly at his witty quotation.

"Just as you prefer. Nick, then, I understand your object. But what
made you think I wanted to sell the violin?"

It was Nick's turn to be surprised.

"Ain't there goin' to be an auction of your father's things?" he
said.

"Yes; but the violin is mine, and I am not going to sell it."

"You'll have to," said Nick.

"What do you mean by that, Nicholas Holden?" said Philip quickly.

"Because you'll have to sell everything to pay your father's debt.
My father said so this very morning."

"I think I know my own business best," said Philip coldly. "I shall
keep the violin."

"Maybe it ain't for you to say," returned Nick, apparently not aware
of his insolence. "Come, now, I'll tell you what I'll do. My
father's got a bill against yours for a dollar and sixty-four cents.
I told father I had a use for the fiddle, and he says if you'll give
it to me, he'll call it square. There, what do you say to that?"

Nicholas leaned back in his chair and looked at Philip through his
small, fishy eyes, as if he had made an uncommonly liberal offer. As
for Philip, he hardly knew whether to be angry or amused.

"You offer me a dollar and sixty-four cents for my violin?" he
repeated.

"Yes. It's second-hand, to be sure, but I guess it's in pretty fair
condition. Besides, you might help me a little about learnin' how to
play."

"How much do you suppose the violin cost?" inquired Philip.

"Couldn't say."

"It cost my father twenty-five dollars."

"Oh, come, now, that's too thin! You don't expect a feller to
believe such a story as that?"

"I expect to be believed, for I never tell anything but the truth."

"Oh, well, I don't expect yon do, generally, but when it comes to
tradin', most everybody lies," observed Nick candidly.

"I have no object in misrepresenting, for I don't want to sell the
violin."

"You can't afford to keep it! The town won't let you!"

"The town won't let me?" echoed Philip, now thoroughly mystified.

"Of course they won't. The idea of a pauper bein' allowed a fiddle
to play on! Why, it's ridiculous!"

"What do you mean?" demanded Philip, who now began to comprehend the
meaning of this thick-witted visitor. "What have I got to do with
the town, or with paupers?"

"Why, you're goin' to the poorhouse, ain't you?"

"Certainly not!" answered Philip, with flashing eyes.

"I guess you're mistaken," said Nick coolly. "Squire Pope was over
to our shop this mornin', and he told dad that the seleckmen were
goin' to send you there after the auction."

Philip's eyes flashed angrily. He felt insulted and outraged. Never
for a moment had he conceived the idea that any one would regard him
as a candidate for the poorhouse.

He had an honorable pride in maintaining himself, and would rather
get along on one meal a day, earned by himself in honest
independence, than be indebted to public charity even for a
luxurious support.

"Squire Pope doesn't know what he's talking about," retorted Philip,
who had to exercise some self-restraint not to express himself more
forcibly "and you can tell him so when you see him. I am no more
likely to go to the poorhouse than you are!"

"Come, that's a good one," chuckled Nick. "Talk of me goin' to the
poorhouse, when my father pays one of the biggest taxes in town! Of
course, it's different with you."

"You'll have to excuse me now," said Philip, determined to get rid
of his disagreeable companion. "I have something to do."

"Then you won't sell me the fiddle, Phil?"

"No, I won't," answered our hero, with scant ceremony.

"Then I'll have to bid it off at the auction. Maybe I'll get it
cheaper."

And Mr. Nicholas Holden at length relieved Philip of his company.






CHAPTER IV.

THE AUCTION.





It so happened that Nick Holden met Squire Pope on the village
street, and, being rather disappointed at the result of his
negotiations with Philip, thought it might be a good idea to broach
the subject to the squire, who, as he knew, had taken it upon
himself to superintend the sale of Mr. Gray's goods."

"I say, squire, I've just been over to see Phil Gray."

"Ahem! Well, how does he seem to feel?"

"Kinder stuck up, I reckon. He said he wouldn't go to the poorhouse,
and I might tell you so."

"I apprehend," said the squire, in his stately way, "he will be
under the necessity of going, whether he likes it or not."

"Just so; that's what I told him!" interjected Nick.

"And he should be grateful for so comfortable a home," continued the
public man.

"Well, I dunno," said Nick. "They do say that old Tucker most
starves the paupers. Why his bills with dad are awful small."

"The town cannot afford to pamper the appetites of its
beneficiaries," said the squire. "Where is Philip now?"

"I guess he's at home. I offered to buy his fiddle, but he said he
was going to keep it. I offered him a dollar and sixty-four
cents--the same as dad's bill against his father, but he wouldn't
take it."

"Really, Nicholas, your offer was very irregular--extremely
irregular. It should have been made to me, as the administrator of
the late Mr. Gray, and not to a boy like Philip."

"Will you sell me the fiddle for dad's bill, squire?" asked Nicholas
eagerly.

"You are premature, Nicholas--"

"What's that?"

"I mean you must wait till the auction. Then you will have a chance
to bid on the instrument, if you want to secure it."

"Phil says it's his, and won't be for sale at the auction."

"Then Philip is mistaken. He is only a boy. The estate will be
settled by those who are older and wiser than he."

"I guess you'll find him hard to manage, squire," said Nick,
laughing.

"We shall see--we shall see," returned the squire.

And, with a dignified wave of the hand, he cotinued on his walk.

After the visit of Nicholas, Philip thought it most prudent to
convey the violin which he prized so much to the house of his
friend, Frank Dunbar, where he had been invited to take his meals.

He was willing to have the furniture sold to defray his father's
small debts, but the violin was his own. It had not even been given
him by his father. Though the latter purchased it, the money which
it cost had been given to Philip by a friend of the family. He
rightly thought that he had no call to sell it now.

"Frank," said he to his boy-friend, "I want you to put away my violin
safely, and keep it until after the auction."

"Of course I will, Phil; but won't you want to play on it!"

"Not at present. I'll tell you why I want it put away."

And Philip told his friend about Nick's application to purchase it,
and the liberal offer he had made.

"Nick's generosity never will hurt him much," said Frank, laughing.
"What in the world did he want of your violin?"

"He wants to make himself popular with the girls."

"He'll never do that, even if he learns to play like an angel!" said
Frank. "You ought to hear the girls talk about him. He couldn't get
a single one of them to go home with from singing-school last
winter. He teased my sister to go, but she told him every time she
was engaged to some one else."

The two days that intervened between the funeral and the auction
passed, and the last scene connecting Philip with the little cottage
which had been his home was to take place.

In a country town, an auction-however inconsiderable-draws together
an interested company of friends and neighbors; and, though no
articles of value were to be sold, this was the case at the present
sale.

Philip didn't at first mean to be present. He thought it would only
give him pain; but at the last moment he came, having been requested
to do so by Squire Pope, as information might be required which he
could give.

The bulk of the furniture was soon disposed of, at low prices, to be
sure, but sufficiently high to make it clear that enough would be
realized to pay the small bills outstanding.

Philip's lip quivered when his father's watch was put up. He would
have liked to buy it, but this was impossible; for he had only about
a dollar of his own.

Nick Holden's eyes sparkled when he saw the watch. He had forgotten
about that, but as soon as he saw it he coveted it. He had a cheap
silver watch of his own, which he had bought secondhand about three
years before. He had thought that he might some day possess a gold
watch, but he was not willing to lay out the necessary sum of money.

By dint of actual meanness, he had laid up two hundred dollars,
which he now had in the savings-bank in the next village, and he
could therefore have bought one if he had chosen; but, like Gilpin,

"Though on pleasure bent, he had a frugal mind."

Now, however, there seemed a chance of getting a gold watch at a low
price. Nick reasoned rightly that at an auction it would go much
below its value, and it would be a good thing for him to buy it-even
as an investment-as he would probably have chances enough to trade
it off at a handsome profit,

"I shouldn't wonder if I could double my money on it," he reflected.

Accordingly, when the watch was put up, Nick eagerly bid two
dollars.

Philip's lip curled when he heard this generous bid, and he heartily
hoped that this treasured possession of his dead father might not
fall into such hands.

Nick rather hoped that no one would bid against him, but in this he
was destined to be disappointed.

"Five dollars!" was next heard.

And this bid came from Mr. Dunbar, the father of his friend Frank.
Philip's eyes brightened up, for there was no one he would sooner
see the possessor of the watch than his kind friend.

Nick looked chopfallen when he heard this large increase on his
original bid, and hesitated to continue, but finally mustered up
courage to say, in a rather feeble tone:

"Five and a quarter."

"Five dollars and a quarter bid!" said the auctioneer. "Do I hear
more?"

"Six dollars," said Mr. Dunbar quietly.

The bid was repeated, and the auctioneer waited for a higher one,
but Nick retired ignominiously from the contest.

He wasn't sure whether he could get much over six dollars for it
himself, and he foresaw that Mr. Dunbar intended to have it, even if
it cost considerable more.

"It's kinder hard on a feller," he complained to the man standing
next him. "What does Mr. Dunbar want of the watch? He's got one
already,"

"Perhaps he thinks it is a good bargain at the price."

"It's what I've been wantin' all along," said Nick. "He might have let
me have it."

"Why don't you bid more?"

"I wanted to get it cheap."

"And the auctioneer wants to get as much as he can for the articles,
and so do Philip's friends," This was a consideration which, of
course, had no weight with Nicholas. However, he had one comfort. He
would bid on the violin, and probably no one else would bid against
it. He did not see it, to be sure, but concluded, of course, that it
would be bid off. When the sale drew near the end, he went to
Philip, and said:

"Whereabouts is the fiddle, Phil?"

"It isn't here," answered our hero.

"Ain't it goin' to be sold?"

"Of course not! It's mine. I told you that once already."

"We'll see!" said Nicholas angrily.

And going up to Squire Pope, he held a brief conversation with that
gentleman.

The squire nodded vigorously, and walked over to Philip.

"Philip," said he, "go and bring your violin."

"What will I do that for!" asked our hero quietly.

"So that it may be sold."

"It is not to be sold," returned Philip quietly. "It belongs to me."

"Nothing belongs to you except your clothes!" said the squire
angrily. "I require you to go and fetch the instrument."

"And I decline to do it," said Philip.

"Do you know who I am," demanded the squire, with ruffled dignity.

"I know you perfectly well," answered Philip "but I am the owner of
the violin, and I don't mean to have it sold."

"YOU will repent this!" said Squire Pope, who felt that his lawful
authority and official dignity were set at naught.

Philip bowed and left the house. He did not know what steps the
squire might take, but he was resolved not to give up his cherished
violin.






CHAPTER V.

AN ALLIANCE AGAINST PHILIP.





Squire Pope was not a bad man, nor was he by nature a tyrant, but he
was so fully convinced of his own superior judgment that he was in
all things obstinately bent on having his own way. He had persuaded
himself that our young hero, Philip, would be better off in the
poorhouse than in a place where he could earn his own living, and no
one could convince him to the contrary.

As to the boy's feelings on the subject, he considered those of no
importance. He had good reason to know that Philip would object to
being an inmate of the almshouse, but he was determined that he
should go there.

In like manner, before the auction was over, he saw clearly that it
would realize a sum more than sufficient to pay the funeral expenses
of the late Mr. Gray and the few small bills outstanding against his
estate, and that there was no necessity that Philip's violin should
be sold, but none the less he resolved that it should be sold.

"Shall I allow a young lad to dictate to me?" Squire Pope asked
himself, in irritation. "Certainly not! I know better what is right
than he. It is ridiculous that a town pauper should own a violin.
Why, the next thing, we shall have to buy pianos for our almshouses,
for the use of the gentlemen and ladies who occupy them. A violin,
indeed!"

This Squire Pope regarded as irresistible logic and withering
sarcasm combined.

He saw Philip go out of the cottage, but, as the sale was not over,
he was unable to follow him.

"Never mind, I'll fix him as soon as I have time," he said to
himself.

"Back so soon? Is the auction over!" asked his friend, Frank Dunbar,
who was engaged in splitting wood in the rear of the house.

"No, Frank, not quite; but it's almost over..Who do you think bid on
father's gold watch?"

"I don't know."

"Nick Holden."

"He didn't get it, did he?"

"I am glad to say not. Your father bought it."

"Did he! Why, he's got one watch already."

"I am glad he's got it. I couldn't bear to think of Nick Holden
carrying my father's watch. He was disappointed about one thing
besides."

"What was that?"

"The violin. He went to Squire Pope, and complained that it was not
in the sale."

"That's just like his impudence. What did the squire say?"

"He came to me and ordered me to get it, so that it might be sold."

"Shall I get it for you, then?"

"Not much!" answered Philip emphatically. "It is mine, as I have
already told you. If the auction doesn't bring in enough to settle
up everything, I may agree to sell it for a fair price; but I am
sure, from the prices, that it won't be necessary."

"Squire Pope's a dreadful obstinate man," said Frank doubtfully. "He
may insist upon your selling the violin."

"Let him do it!" said Philip contemptuously. "I should like to see
him get it. Where have you put it, Frank?"

"Where Squire Pope won't be apt to find it--in an old chest up in
the garret. It's full of old clothes, belonging to my grandfather,
and hasn't been looked into by any one except me for years. I put it
away under all the clothes at the bottom. No one knows where it is
except you and me, not even mother."

"That's good. I guess we can defy the squire, then."

Half an hour later, Mr. Dunbar came home from the auction.

Philip went to meet him.

"Thank you for buying father's watch," he said. "But for you, Nick
Holden would have had it, and I should have been sorry for it."

"He was badly disappointed," said Mr. Dunbar smiling. "But I didn't
buy the watch for myself, Philip."

"For whom, then?" asked Philip, in some surprise.

"For the one that has the best right to it--for you," and the farmer
took the watch from his pocket, and handed it to Philip.

"But I haven't the money to pay for it, Mr. Dunbar," said our hero.

"Then I give it to you as a present," said Mr. Dunbar.

"I am very grateful," said Philip; "but I ought not to accept it.
You are too kind to me."

"Let me be the judge of that."

"Besides, it wouldn't be safe for me to take it. Squire Pope will
try to get my violin away from me in order to sell it, and he would
be sure to try to do the same by the watch if he found that I had
it."

"But, Philip, I don't need the watch myself."

"Then, Mr. Dunbar, will you be kind enough to keep it for me, and
when I can afford to pay for it, and there is no danger of its being
taken from me, I will ask you for it. I shall be very glad, indeed,
when I am older, to carry my father's watch, for I have seen it in
his hands so often that it will constantly remind me of him."

"Perhaps that will be the best arrangement," said Mr. Dunbar. "You
might have it stolen from you, if you carried it yourself just at
present. As you request, I will keep it, subject to your order; but
I would rather let it be a gift from me, and not require you to pay
for it."

"We won't talk about that now," said Philip, smiling. "At any rate,
you must let me thank you for your great kindness to me."

"Don't speak of that, Phil," said the farmer kindly. "I had a great
respect and liking for your father, and I verily believe my Frank
loves you as well as if you were his own brother. So, come what may,
you have a friend in our family."

"I indorse all that father says," Frank said.

And he extended his hand to Philip, who grasped it heartily.

It warmed his heart to think that he had such good friends, though
he was an orphan and alone in the world.

After supper, Mr. Dunbar went to the village store, while Frank and
Philip remained at home.

Suddenly Frank said:

"Philip, you are going to have a visitor, I guess."

"A visitor!"

"Yes; I saw Squire Pope stumping along the road, nourishing his
gold-headed cane. He is headed this way, and it's likely he is going
to honor you with a call. He's got somebody with him, too. Who is
it!"

Philip shaded his eyes with his hand, for the Sun was near its
setting, and shining with dazzling brightness from the quarter
toward which he was looking.

"It's Nick Holden!" he said.

"So it is! What can he want?"

"I understand very well. He wants my violin. He couldn't get it at
the sale, so he has come here to see if he can't make me give it to
him."

"And will you?"

"You ought to know me better than to ask, Frank," said Philip
firmly. "Nick might as well have stayed away, for he won't
accomplish anything."

Nick, however, held a different opinion. After Philip left the
cottage, he had gone to Squire Pope, and cunningly asked:

"Are you going to let Philip keep his fiddle in spite of you,
squire?"

"What do you mean, Nicholas?" demanded the squire, in a stately way.

"Why, seems to me he's kinder settin' up his will agin yours. You
say the fiddle shall be sold, and he says it shan't. He told me he
didn't care what you said, he should keep it."

"Did he say that, Nicholas?" asked the squire, who felt that his
dignity was outraged by such insolence.

"I'm sartain he did. He's pretty big feelin', Phil is. He always
wants to have his own way."

"He will find that he can't defy me with impunity," said the squire
stiffly.

"Just so. Then you'll sell me the fiddle?"

"I will!" said the squire emphatically.

"You won't ask too much, will you?" asked Nick anxiously.

Now Squire Pope, who knew nothing of the price of violins, and had a
very inadequate idea of their value, after some haggling on the part
of Nick, agreed to sell him the instrument for two dollars and a
half, and to see that it was delivered that evening.

"Do you know where it is, Nicholas?" he asked.

"Why, Phil is staying over at Frank Dunbar's, and I guess he's got
it there somewhere. I guess we'd better go over there and get it."

"Very well, Nicholas. After supper, if you will come to my house, I
will go over there, and see that you have the instrument."

"All right, squire!" said Nick gleefully, "Phil will find that he
can't have his own way this time."

"I apprehend he will," said the squire complacently.

Now the reader understands how it happened that Squire Pope and Nick
Holden made a call on Philip. As to what passed at the interview, we
must refer him to the next chapter.






CHAPTER VI.

FUSS ABOUT A FIDDLE.





"Ahem! Good evening!" said Squire Pope to Frank Dunbar, taking no
notice of Philip's cold but polite salutation.

"Good evening! Will you go into the house?" said Frank.

"I believe not. I have not time."

"I am sorry father isn't home. He just started for the village."

"Ahem! it was not to see your father that I called," answered Squire
Pope. "I wish to have a few words with this young man," indicating
Philip stiffly.

"I am at your service, Squire Pope," said Philip, with ceremonious
politeness.

"We came about the fiddle," interrupted Nick Holden, who always
wanted to have a share in the conversation.

Squire Pope frowned, for he did not relish Nick's interference.

"Nicholas," he said severely, "I apprehend I am competent to manage
the business we have come upon."

"Don't get riled, squire," said Nick, by no means abashed by this
rebuke. "I thought you were kinder slow about comin' to the point."

"Your interruption was very indecorous. I do not require any
assistance or any suggestions."

"All right, squire!"

Squire Pope now turned to our hero, and said:

"As I was about to say, when interrupted by Nicholas, I have come to
require you to give up--the Violin which, without authority and
against my express command, you withheld from the auction."

"The violin is mine, Squire Pope," said Philip firmly, "and I mean
to keep it!"

"You talk like an ignorant boy. As a minor, you had no claim to the
possession of any article except your clothing. I judged it best
that the violin should be sold at the auction, and it is
presumptuous for you to set up your judgment against mine!"

"I don't take that view of it," said Philip, and then he stopped.

He knew it was of no use to argue against the squire, who was
obstinate to the verge of pig-headedness, if I may be allowed to use
the expression. He felt that it would be only wasting his breath.

"It is quite immaterial how you view the subject," said the squire
pompously. "My mind is made up, and my resolution is not likely to
be shaken by a boy."

"Then, sir," answered Philip, in a respectful tone but with a slight
smile, "it is hardly worth while for me to say any more."

"I am glad you have arrived at so sensible a conclusion," said
Squire Pope. "I take it that you have the violin here."

"Yes, sir."

"Then bring it out and give it to me."

Now came the critical point, when Philip must array himself in
determined opposition to Squire Pope. He felt that he was entirely
in the right; still he regretted the necessity of the antagonism.

Philip had one thing in his favor: He had plenty of self-control,
and, although he was very indignant at the course of the squire,
which he regarded as unjustifiable, he made up his mind to be as
respectful as circumstances would permit.

"I don't think you understand me, Squire Pope," he said. "I refuse
to give up the violin!"

"You refuse to give up the violin!" repeated Squire Pope, scarcely
believing the testimony of his ears. "Do I hear you aright?"

"Yes, sir."

"I never see such impudence!" ejaculated Nick Holden, wishing to egg
on the squire.

"Do you mean to defy me to my face?" demoded Squire Pope, growing
very red.

"I don't wish to defy you or anybody else," returned Philip; "but I
shall stand up for my rights."

"Misguided boy!" said the squire severely; "you will yet rue this
rash and heedless course. Frank," he continued, turning to Frank
Dunbar, "do you know where Philip's violin is!"

"Yes, sir."

"Do me the favor to bring it out and place it in my hands."

"You must excuse me, Squire Pope," answered Frank. "It belongs to
Philip, and I have no right to meddle with it."

"If Philip has told you this, he has misrepresented," said the
squire, rather discouraged by this second rebuff. "The violin does
not belong to Philip. It belongs to this young man."

And, with a wave of his hand, he designated Nick Holden.

It was not polite, but Frank Dunbar was so surprised by this
announcement that he whistled.

As for Philip, he regarded Nick calmly; but there didn't seem to be
any sign of yielding in his look.

"It belongs to Nicholas, because I have sold it to him," continued
Squire Pope doggedly.

"That's so!" corroborated Nick complacently. "The squire sold me the
fiddle for two-fifty. It's mine now, and you'd better fetch it along
out, or there'll be trouble."

Philip turned to Squire Pope, and said quietly:

"As you had no right to sell it, the sale amounts to nothing. If you
had a right, I should say you were not very shrewd to sell an
instrument that cost twenty-five dollars--and was considered a
bargain at the price--for two dollars and fifty cents."

"The violin cost twenty-five dollars!" ejaculated the squire, in
genuine surprise.

For, as it has already been stated, he had no idea whatever of the
usual price for a violin.

"Yes, sir."

"Don't you believe him, squire," said Nicholas, afraid that he would
lose what he knew to be a good bargain. "No fiddle that was ever made
cost twenty-five dollars. It's ridiculous!"

"It does seem a large price," said the squire guardedly.

Squire Pope would doubtless have been surprised to learn that
certain violins of celebrated make--such as the Cremonas--have sold
for thousands of dollars. Probably he would have disbelieved it.

Nevertheless, he began to think that he had been too precipitate in
accepting Nick Holden's offer.

If he should sacrifice, or sell at an utterly inadequate price, any
article belonging to the boy whom he considered his ward, he knew
that he would be blamed, and he began to consider how he could
recede from the bargain.

"Nicholas," he said, "I didn't exactly sell the violin to yon. I
will ascertain what is a fair price for it, and then I will consider
your proposal."

"You sold it right out, squire," said Nick, "and I can prove it.
Didn't you just say it was mine. There, now!"

Nick turned triumphantly to Frank and Phil, but, for very good
reasons, they did not care to side with him.

"I say, you haven't treated me right," persisted Nick, who had no
particular respect nor veneration for the squire, and was not to be
deterred from speaking as he felt. "I offered you two-fifty, and you
said I should have it, and you got me to call at your house to come
here for it."

"I cannot sacrifice the property of my ward," said Squire Pope. "I
must ascertain how much the violin is worth."

"A bargain is a bargain, every time!" said Nick, irritated.

"I will let you have it as cheap as anybody," said the squire, who
thought it possible that Nick might be the only one who desired to
purchase it. "That ought to satisfy you. Philip, go and bring me the
violin, and I will carry it home and dispose of it to the best
advantage."

"You must excuse me, Squire Pope. I shall not let it leave my
possession." Just then Squire Pope espied Mr. Dunbar returning from
the village, and hailed him as a probable ally. He laid the matter
before him, and requested him to compel Philip to get the violin.

"You must excuse me, squire," said Mr. Dunbar coldly. "Philip is my
guest, and he shall be protected in his rights as long as he remains
here."

Without a word, Squire Pope walked off, in angry discomfiture, in
one direction, while Nick, equally dissatisfied, walked off in
another.

"They don't seem happy!" said Frank slyly.

"I wish I knew where it was going to end," returned Philip gravely.

"It seems to me," said Frank, "the squire is making a great fuss
about a fiddle, for a man of his dignity."

"He doesn't care about the violin. He wants to have his own way,"
said Philip, thus hitting the nail on the head.






CHAPTER VII.

MR. JOE TUCKER





Before going further, I will introduce to the reader, a citizen of
Norton, who filled a position for which he was utterly unfitted.
This man was Joe Tucker, in charge of the almshouse.

He had not been selected by the town authorities on the ground of
fitness, but simply because he was willing to work cheap. He
received a certain low weekly sum for each one of his inmates, and
the free use of apartments for himself and family, with the right to
cultivate the ten acres of land connected with the establishment,
and known as the Town Farm.

His family consisted of three persons--himself, his wife, and a son,
Ezekiel, familiarly known as Zeke, now sixteen years old. The
leading family trait was meanness.

Mr. Tucker supplied a mean table even for a poorhouse, and some of
the hapless inmates complained bitterly. One had even had the
boldness to present a complaint to the selectmen, and that body,
rather reluctantly, undertook to investigate the justness of the
complaint. They deputed Squire Pope to visit the poorhouse and
inquire into the matter.

Now, though Squire Pope thought himself unusually sharp, it was the
easiest thing in the world for a cunning person like Joe Tucker to
satisfy him that all was right.

"Mr. Tucker," said Squire Pope pompously, "I am deputed by the
selectmen, and I may add by the overseers of the poor, to
investigate a complaint made by one of the paupers in relation to
the fare you offer them."

"Who is it!" inquired Mr. Tucker.

"It is Ann Carter. She says you don't allow her sugar in her tea,
and only allow one slice of bread at supper, and that the meat is so
bad she can't eat it."

"Just like the old woman!" exclaimed Mr. Tucker indignantly. "Oh,
she's a high-strung pauper, she is! Expects all the delicacies of
the season for seventy-five cents a week. She'd ought to go to the
Fifth Avenoo Hotel in New York, and then I'll bet a cent she
wouldn't be satisfied."

It is observable that even in his imaginary bets Mr. Tucker
maintained his economical habits, and seldom bet more than a cent.
Once, when very much excited, he had bet five cents, but this must
be attributed to his excited state of mind.

"So you regard her complaints as unreasonable, do you, Mr. Tucker?"
observed the investigating committee.

"Unreasonable? I should think they was. I allow, Squire Pope, we
don't live like a first-class hotel"--Mr. Tucker's language was
rather mixed--"but we live as well as we can afford to. As to sugar,
we don't allow the paupers to put it in for themselves, or they'd
ruin us by their extravagance. Mrs. Tucker puts sugar in the teapot
before she pours it out. I s'pose Ann Carter would put as much in
one cup of tea as Mrs. T. uses for the whole teapotful, if she had
her way."

This was very probably true, as the frugal Mrs. Tucker only allowed
one teaspoonful for the entire supply.

"That looks reasonable, Mr. Tucker," said the squire approvingly.
"Now about the bread and the meat?"

"The paupers has plenty of bread," said Mr. Tucker. "Our bread bill
is actually enormous."

"And as to the meat?"

"We don't give 'em roast turkey every day, and we don't buy
tenderloin steaks to pamper their appetites," said Mr. Tucker,
"though we're perfectly willing to do it if the town'll pay us so we
can afford it. Do you think the town'll agree to pay me twenty-five
cents more a week for each one, squire?"

"Certainly not. It can't be thought of," said the squire hastily,
knowing that if the selectmen advocated such a measure they would
probably lose their reelection.

"If it would, we might live a little better, so that Ann Carter
wouldn't have to complain, though, bless your soul! that woman is
always complainin'."

"Ahem! Mr. Tucker, you present the matter to me in a new light. I
really feel that Ann Carter is very unreasonable in her complaints."

"I knowed you'd do me justice, squire," said Mr. Tucker effusively.
"You're a sharp man. You ain't a-goin' to be taken in by any of them
paupers' rigmarole. I always said, Squire Pope, that you was the
right man in the right place, and that the town was lucky to have so
intelligent and public-spirited a citizen fillin' her most important
offices."

"Mr. Tucker," said the squire, "you gratify me. It has ever been my
aim to discharge with conscientious fidelity the important trusts
which the town has committed to my charge--"

"I'll bear witness to that, squire."

"And your sincere tribute gives me great satisfaction."

"I hope you'll report things right to the board, Squire Pope?" said
Mr. Job Tucker insinuatingly.

"Be assured I will, Mr. Tucker. I consider you a zealous and
trustworthy official, striving hard to do your duty in the place the
town has assigned you."

"I do, indeed, squire," said Mr. Tucker, pulling on a red
handkerchief and mopping some imaginary tears. "Excuse my emotions,
sir, but your generous confidence quite unmans me. I--I--trust now
that I shall be able to bear meekly the sneers and complaints of Ann
Carter and her fellow paupers."

"I will stand by you, Mr. Tucker," said Squire Pope cordially, for
the man's flattery, coarse as it was, had been like incense to his
vanity. "I will stand by you, and uphold you by my testimony."

"Thank you, squire. With such an impartial advocate I will continue
to do my duty and fear nothing."

As Squire Pope left the almshouse, Mr. Tucker winked at himself in
the glass, and said quizzically:

"I guess I'm all right now. The vain old fool thinks he's a second
Solomon, and thinks I regard him as such. Oh, it takes me to get
round him!"

Squire Pope wrote an elaborate report, in which he stated that,
after searching investigation, he had ascertained that the
complaints of Ann Carter were absolutely groundless, and gave it as
his conviction that Mr. Tucker's treatment of her and her associate
paupers was characterized by remarkable consideration and humanity.

Such officials as he have much to answer for, and yet there are
plenty just as false to their responsibilities as he.

It was two days after Squire Pope's ineffectual attempt to possess
himself of Philip's violin, that our hero was walking along a
country road, on his return from an errand which, he had undertaken
for his friend's father, when his attention was drawn to the yelping
of a small dog, that seemed in fear or pain.

Looking over the stone wall, Philip saw Zeke Tucker amusing himself
by thrusting the dog's head into a pool of dirty water, and holding
it there till the animal was nearly strangled. The dog's suffering
appeared to yield the most exquisite amusement to the boy, who burst
into peal after peal of rude laughter as he watched the struggles of
his victim.

Philip, like every decent boy, had a horror of cruelty, and the
sight stirred him to immediate anger and disgust.

"What are you doing there, Zeke Tucker?" he demanded sternly.

"None of your business!" answered Zeke, frowning.

"You'd better answer my question," said Philip, who had by this time
jumped over the wall.

"Then I will. I'm havin' a little fun. What have you got to say
about it?" retorted Zeke.

And once more he plunged the head of the poor dog into the filthy
pool.

The next moment he found himself floundering on his back, while the
dog, slipping from his grasp, was running across the meadows. "What
did you do that for!" demanded Zeke, springing up, his face flaming
with rage.

"I rather think you understand well enough," answered Philip
contemptuously.

"What business have you to touch me? I can have you arrested, you
low pauper!"

"What's that? What did you call me?" demanded Philip.

"I called you a pauper."

"By what right?"

"Squire Pope told my father he was going to bring you over to the
poorhouse to live. You just see if my father doesn't give it to you
then!"

"Thank you," said Phil contemptuously; "but I don't propose to board
at your establishment, not even to obtain the pleasure of your
society."

"Maybe you can't help yourself," said Zeke gleefully.

For he saw what had escaped the notice of Philip, whose back was
turned--namely, a four-seated carryall, containing his father and
Squire Pope, which had just halted in the road, hard by.

"Mr. Tucker," said Squire Pope, in a low tone, "now will be the best
opportunity to capture the boy and carry him to the almshouse."

"All right--I'm ready" said Tucker readily.

For another boarder would bring him sixty cents a week more.

They stopped the horses and prepared for business.






CHAPTER XIII.

IN THE ENEMY'S HANDS





Philip heard a step, and turned to see whose it was; but, when he
recognized Mr. Tucker, the latter's hand was already on his collar.

"What have you been doin' to Zeke? Tell me that, you young rascal"
said Mr. Tucker roughly.

"He pitched into me savage, father," answered Zeke, who had picked
himself up, and was now engaged in brushing the dust from his coat.

"Pitched into ye, did he?" repeated Joe Tucker grimly. "I reckon he
didn't know your father was 'round. What have you got to say for
yourself, eh?"

Philip regarded his captor contemptuously, and didn't struggle to
escape, knowing that he was not a match for a man five inches taller
than himself. But contempt he could not help showing, for he knew
very well that Zeke had inherited his mean traits largely from his
father.

"I'll thank you to remove your hand from my collar, sir," said
Philip. "When you have done that, I will explain why I pitched into
Zeke, as he calls it."

"Don't you let go, father!" said Zeke hastily. "He'll run away, if
you do."

"If I do, you can catch me between you," returned Philip coolly.

"I reckon that's so," said Mr. Tucker, withdrawing his hand, but
keeping wary watch of our hero.

"Now go ahead!" said he.

Philip did so.

"I saw Zeke torturing a small dog," he explained, "and I couldn't
stand by and let it go on."

"What was he doin' to him?" inquired Mr. Tucker.

"Putting the poor animal's head into this dirty pool, and keeping it
there till it was nearly suffocated."

"Was you doin' that, Zeke?" asked his father.

"I was havin' a little fun with him," said Zeke candidly.

"It might have been fun to you, but it wasn't to him," said Phil.

"Why didn't you ask Zeke to stop, and not fly at him like a tiger?"
demanded Mr. Tucker.

"I did remonstrate with him, but he only laughed, and did it again."

"He hadn't no right to order me," said Zeke. "It wa'n't no business
of his if I was havin' a little fun with the dog."

"And I had a little fun with, you," returned Philip--"You couldn't
have complained if I had dipped your head in the water also."

"I ain't a dog!" said Zeke.

"I should respect you more if you were," said Philip.

"Are you goin' to let him talk to me like that!" asked Zeke,
appealing to his father.

"No, I ain't," said Mr. Tucker angrily. "You've committed an assault
and battery on my son, you rascal, and you'll find there ain't no
fun in it for you. I could have you arrested and put in jail,
couldn't I, squire?"

"Ahem! Well, you could have him fined; but, as he is to be under
your care, Mr. Tucker, you will have a chance of making him conduct
himself properly."

"What do you mean by that, Squire Pope?" asked Philip quickly.

"Young man, I do not choose to be catechized," said Squire Pope, in
a dignified manner; "but I have no objections to tell you that I
have made arrangements with Mr. Tucker to take you into the
poorhouse."

"I've heard that before, but I couldn't believe it", said Philip
proudly.

"I guess you'll have to believe it pretty soon. he, he!" laughed
Zeke, with a grin which indicated his high delight. "I guess dad'll
make you stand round when he gits you into the poor-house."

"Don't you consider me capable of earning my own living, Squire
Pope?" asked Philip.

"Ahem! Yes, you will be one of these days. You won't have to stay in
the almshouse all your life."

"You'll have a chance to earn your livin' with me." said Mr. Tucker.
"I shall give you something to do, you may depend."

"You can make him saw and split wood, father, and do the chores and
milk the cow," suggested Zeke.

"I have no objection to doing any of those things for a farmer,"
said Philip, "but I am not willing to do it where I shall be
considered a pauper."

"Kinder uppish!" suggested Mr. Tucker, turning to Squire Pope. "Most
all of them paupers is proud; but it's pride in the wrong place, I
reckon."

"If it is pride to want to earn an independent living, and not live
on charity, then I am proud," continued Philip.

"Well, squire, how is it to be," asked Mr. Tucker.

"Philip," said Squire Pope pompously, "you are very young, and you
don't know what is best for you. We do, and you must submit.
Mr. Tucker, take him and put him in the wagon, and we'll drive over
to the poorhouse."

"What! now?" asked Philip, in dismay.

"Just so," answered Joe Tucker. "When you've got your bird, don't
let him go, that's what I say."

"That's the talk, dad!" said Zeke gladfully. "We'll take down his
pride, I guess, when we've got him home."

Joe Tucker approached Philip, and was about to lay hold of him, when
our hero started back.

"You needn't lay hold of me, Mr. Tucker," he said. "I will get into
the wagon if Squire Pope insists upon it."

"I'm glad you're gettin' sensible," said the squire, congratulating
himself on finding Philip more tractable than he expected.

"And you will go to the poorhouse peaceful, and without making a
fuss?" asked Joe.

"Yes, I will go there; but I won't stay there."

"You won't stay there!" ejaculated the squire.

"No, sir! In treating me as a dependent on charity, you are doing
what neither you nor any other man has a right to do," said Philip
firmly.

"You don't appear to remember that I am a selectman and overseer of
the poor," said the Squire.

"I am aware that you hold those offices; but if so, you ought to
save money to the town, and not compel them to pay for my support,
when I am willing and able to support myself."

Squire Pope looked a little puzzled. This was putting the matter in
a new light, and he could not help admitting to himself that Philip
was correct, and that perhaps his fellow citizens might take the
same view.

On the other hand, the squire was fond of having his own way, and he
had now gone so far that he could not recede without loss of
dignity.

"I think," he answered stiffly, "that I understand my duty as well
as a boy of fifteen. I don't mean to keep you here long, but it is
the best arrangement for the present."

"Of course it is," said Zeke, well pleased with the humiliation of
his enemy.

"Shut up, Zeke!" said his father, observing from the squire's
expression that he did not fancy Zeke's interference.

"All right, dad," said Zeke good-naturedly, seeing that things had
turned out as he desired.

"Jump in!" said Mr. Tucker to Philip.

Our hero, without a word, obeyed. He was firmly resolved that Squire
Pope should not have his way, but he did not choose to make himself
ridiculous by an ineffectual resistance which would only have ended
in his discomfiture.

Seated between Mr. Tucker and the squire, he was driven rapidly
toward the poorhouse.






CHAPTER IX.

THE POORHOUSE.





There was no room for Zeke to ride--that is, there was no seat for
him--but he managed to clamber into the back part of the wagon,
where he sat, or squatted, rather uncomfortably, but evidently in
the best of spirits--if any inference could be drawn from his
expression.

The poorhouse was not far away. It was a three-story frame house,
which badly needed painting, with a dilapidated barn, and shed near
by.

A three-story farmhouse is not common in the country, but this
dwelling had been erected by a Mr. Parmenter, in the expectation of
making a fortune by taking summer boarders.

There was room enough for them, but they did not come. The situation
was the reverse of pleasant, the soil about was barren, and there
were no shade or fruit trees. It was a crazy idea, selecting such a
spot for a summer boarding-house, and failure naturally resulted.

There had, indeed, been two boarders--a man and his wife--who paid
one week's board, and managed to owe six before the unlucky landlord
decided that they were a pair of swindlers. He had spent more money
than he could afford on his house, and went steadily behind-hand
year after year, till the town--which was in want of a
poorhouse--stepped in and purchased the house and farm at a bargain.
So it came to be a boarding-house, after all, but in a sense not
contemplated by the proprietor, and, at present, accommodated eleven
persons--mostly old and infirm--whom hard fortune compelled to
subsist on charity.

Mr. Tucker had this advantage, that his boarders, had no recourse
except to stay with him, however poor his fare or harsh his
treatment, unless they were in a position to take care of
themselves.

When Philip came in sight of the almshouse--which he had often seen,
and always considered a very dreary-looking building--he was
strengthened in his determination not long to remain a tenant.

Mr. Tucker drove up to the front door with a flourish.

A hard-featured woman came out, and regarded the contents of the
wagon with curiosity.

"Well, Abigail, can you take another boarder!" asked Mr. Tucker, as
he descended from the wagon.

"Who is it?"

"Well, it ain't likely to be Squire Pope!" said Joe facetiously;
"and Zeke and I are regular boarders on the free list."

"Is it that boy?"

"Yes; it's Phil Gray."

"Humph! boys are a trial!" remarked Mrs. Tucker, whose experience
with Zeke had doubtless convinced her of this fact.

"I sha'n't trouble you long, Mrs. Tucker," said Philip. "I don't
intend to stay."

"You don't, hey?" retorted Joe Tucker, with a wolfish grin and an
emphatic nod of the head. "We'll see about that--won't we, Squire
Pope?"

"The boy is rather rebellious, Mrs. Tucker," said the selectman. "He
appears to think he knows better what is good for him than we do.
You may look upon him as a permanent boarder. What he says is of no
account."

Philip said nothing, but he looked full at the squire with an
unflinching gaze. If ever determination was written upon any face,
it was on his.

"Come down there!" said Mrs. Tucker, addressing our hero. "You're at
home now."

"Mr. Dunbar won't know what has become of me," said Philip, with a
sudden thought. "They will be anxious. May I go back there and tell
them where I am?"

"Do you think I am green enough for that?" Mr. Tucker, touching the
side of his nose waggishly. "We shouldn't be likely to set eyes on
you again."

"I will promise to come back here this evening," said Philip.

"And will you promise to stay?" asked Squire Pope doubtfully.

"No, sir," answered Philip boldly. "I won't do that, but I will
engage to come back. Then Mr. Tucker will have to look out for me,
for I tell you and him frankly I don't mean to stay."

"Did you ever hear such talk, squire!" asked Mr. Tucker, with a gasp
of incredulity. "He actually defies you, who are a selectman and an
overseer of the poor."

"So he does, Mr. Tucker. I'm shocked at his conduct."

"Shall we let him go?"

"No, of course not."

"I agree with you, squire. I know'd you wouldn't agree to it. What
shall I do about his wantin' to run away?"

"It will be best to confine him just at first, Mr. Tucker."

"I'll shut him up in one of the attic rooms," said Mr. Tucker.

"I think it will be the best thing to do, Mr. Tucker."

Philip took all this very coolly. As to the way in which they
proposed to dispose of him for the present he cared very little, as
he did not intend stay till morning if there was any possible chance
of getting away. The only thing that troubled him was the doubt and
anxiety of his good friends, the Dunbars, when he did not return to
the house.

"Squire Pope," he said, turning to that official, "will you do me a
favor?"

"Ahem! Explain yourself," said the squire suspiciously.

"Will you call at Mr. Dunbar's and tell them where I am."

Now, for obvious reasons, the squire did not like to do this. He
knew that the Dunbars would manifest great indignation at the
arbitrary step which he had adopted, and he did not like to face
their displeasure, especially as his apology would perforce be a
lame one.

"I don't think I am called upon to do you a favor, seeing how you've
acted, Philip," he said hesitatingly. "Besides, it would be out of
my way, and I ought to get home as soon as possible."

"Then you refuse, sir?"

"Well, I'd rather not."

"Will you get word to them, Mr. Tucker?" asked Philip, turning to
him.

"I hain't got time," answered Mr. Tucker, who feared that the
Dunbars would come for Philip and release him in the course of the
evening.

Philip was nonplused. Always considerate of the feelings of others,
he was unwilling that his friends should suffer anxiety on his
account.

As Mr. Tucker and Squire Pope walked away together, our hero turned
to Zeke.

"I suppose it's no use to ask you to do me a favor, Zeke?" he said.

"Do you want me to tell Frank Dunbar where you are?"

"Yes, I wish you would."

"Then I'll do it."

"You're a better fellow than I thought you were, Zeke," said Philip,
surprised.

"No, I ain't! Do you want to know why I'm willin' to go?"

"Why?"

"I know Frank Dunbar'll feel bad, and I hate him."

"So that is your object, is it, Zeke?"

"You've got it."

"Well, whatever your motive may be, I shall be much obliged to you
if you go. Here's ten cents for you!"

Zeke grasped at the coin with avidity, for his father was very
parsimonious, and his mother no less so, and he seldom got any ready
money.

"Thank you!" said Zeke, with unusual politeness. "I'll go right off.
But, I say, don't you tell dad where I've gone, or he might prevent
me, and don't you let on you've given me this dime, or he'd try to
get it away."

"No, I won't say anything about it," answered Philip.

"A curious family this is!" he thought, "There doesn't seem to be
much confidence in each other."

Zeke sauntered away carelessly, to avert suspicion but when he had
got round a bend of the road he increased his speed, never looking
back, lest he should see his father signaling for him.

Philip breathed a sigh of relief.

"I've got a messenger at last," he said. "Now my friends will know
what has become of me when I don't come home to supper."

He was a little curious to learn what they were going to do with
him, but he was not long kept in suspense.






CHAPTER X.

BAD TIDINGS.





Leaving Philip for a short time in the hands of his captor, we will
follow Zeke on his errand. He didn't have to go as far as Mr.
Dunbar's house, for he met Frank Dunbar about a quarter of a mile
this side of it.

Now, between Frank Dunbar and Zeke Tucker there was no love lost.
There had been a difficulty between them, originating at school,
which need not be particularly referred to. Enough that it led to
Zeke's cordially disliking Frank, while the latter, who was a frank,
straightforward boy, could not see anything in Mr. Tucker's
promising son to enlist either his respect or his liking.

There was a small river running through Norton, which crossed the
main thoroughfare, and had to be bridged over. Frank Dunbar,
fishing-line in hand, was leaning over the parapet, engaged in
luring the fish from their river home. He looked up, when he saw
Zeke approaching him. Not having any particular desire to hold a
conversation with him, he withdrew his eyes, and again watched his
line. Zeke, however, approached him with a grin of anticipated
enjoyment, and hailed him in the usual style:

"Hello, Frank!"

"Oh, it's you, is it?" said Frank Dunbar indifferently.

"Yes it's me. I suppose you thought it was somebody else," chuckled
Zeke, though Frank could see no cause for merriment.

"Well, I see who it is now," he responded.

"Where is Phil Gray?" inquired Zeke, chuckling again.

"Do you want to see him?" asked Frank, rather surprised.

"Oh, no! I shall see him soon enough."

And again Zeke chuckled.

Frank looked up.

He was expecting Philip to join him, and was, in fact, waiting for
him now. Zeke's mysterious merriment suggested that he might have
met Philip--possibly bore some message from him.

"Do you know anything about Phil?" asked Frank, looking fixedly at
his visitor.

"I reckon I do. I know all about him," said Zeke, with evident
enjoyment.

"Well. If you have any message from him, let me hear it."

"You can't guess where he is," blurted out Zeke.

"He isn't in any trouble, is he?" asked Frank quickly.

"No; he's safe enough. But you needn't expect to see him tonight."

"Why not?" demanded Frank, not yet guessing what was likely to
detain his friend.

"Because he's at our house," chuckled Zeke. "Dad and Squire Pope
have carried him to the poorhouse, and he's goin' to stay there for
good."

This was a surprise. In his astonishment, Frank nearly let go his
rod. He was eager now to question Zeke further.

"You don't mean to say Phil has been carried to the poorhouse
against his will?" he exclaimed.

"I reckon he was anxious to go," said Zeke.

"Where was he when your father and Squire Pope committed this
outrage?" said Frank indignantly.

"I thought you'd be mad," said Zeke, with the same unpleasant
chuckle.

"Answer my question, or I'll pitch you into the river," said Frank
sternly.

He did not mean what he said, but Zeke drew back in alarm.

"Quit now! I didn't have nothin' to do with it," said Zeke hastily.
"Me and him was over in Haywood's pasture when dad come along with
the squire in his wagon. Well, they made Phil get in, and that's all
of it, except I promised I'd come and tell your folks, so you
needn't get scared or nothin' when he didn't come back to-night."

"He will come back to-night," said Frank. "He won't stay in the
poorhouse."

"Yes, he will. He can't help himself. Dad's goin' to lock him up in
the attic. I guess he won't jump out of the window. Where you
go-in'! You ain't got through fishin', be you?"

"Yes, I'm through," answered Frank, as he drew his line out of the
water. "Just tell Phil when you go home that he's got friends
outside who won't see him suffer."

"Say, ain't you goin' to give me nothin' for comin' to tell you!"
asked Zeke, who was always intent on the main chance.

Frank flung a nickel in his direction, which Zeke picked up with
avidity.

"I guess it pays to run errands when you can get paid twice," he
reflected complacently.






CHAPTER XI.

PHILIP'S NEW ROOM.





We return to Phil.

"Foller me, boy!" said Mr. Tucker, as he entered the house, and
proceeded to ascend the front steps.

Philip had formed his plans, and without a word of remonstrance, he
obeyed. The whole interior was dingy and dirty. Mrs. Tucker was not
a neat woman, and everything looked neglected and slipshod.

In the common room, to the right, the door of which was partly open,
Philip saw some old men and women sitting motionless, in a sort of
weary patience. They were "paupers," and dependent for comfort on
the worthy couple, who regarded them merely as human machines, good
to them for sixty cents a week each.

Mr. Tucker did not stop at the first landing, but turned and began
to ascend a narrower and steeper staircase leading to the next
story.

This was, if anything, dirtier and more squalid than the first and
second. There were several small rooms on the third floor, into one
of which Mr. Tucker pushed his way. "Come in," he said. "Now you're
at home. This is goin' to be your room."

Philip looked around him in disgust, which he did not even take the
trouble to conceal.

There was a cot-bed in the corner, with an unsavory heap of
bed-clothing upon it, and a couple of chairs, both with wooden
seats, and one with the back gone.

That was about all the furniture. There was one window looking out
upon the front.

"So this is to be my room, is it?" asked our hero.

"Yes. How do you like it?"

"I don't see any wash-stand, or any chance to wash."

"Come, that's rich!" said Mr. Tucker, appearing to be very much
amused. "You didn't think you was stoppin' in the Fifth Avenoo
Hotel, did you?"

"This don't look like it."

"We ain't used to fashionable boarders, and we don't know how to
take care of 'em. You'll have to go downstairs and wash in the
trough, like the rest of the paupers do."

"And wipe my face on the grass, I suppose?" said Philip coolly,
though his heart sank within him at the thought of staying even one
night in a place so squalid and filthy.

"Come, that's goin' too far," said Mr. Tucker, who felt that the
reputation of the boarding. house was endangered by such
insinuations. "We mean to live respectable. There's two towels a
week allowed, and that I consider liberal."

"And do all your boarders use the same towel?" asked Phil, unable to
suppress an expression of disgust.

"Sartain. You don't think we allow 'em one apiece, do you!"

"No, I don't," said Philip decidedly.

He had ceased to expect anything so civilized in Mr. Tucker's
establishment.

"Now you're safe in your room, I reckon I'd better go downstairs,"
said Tucker.

"I will go with you."

"Not much you won't! We ain't a-goin' to give you a chance of
runnin' away just yet!"

"Do you mean to keep me a prisoner?" demanded Philip.

"That's just what we do, at present," answered his genial host.

"It won't be for long, Mr. Tucker."

"What's that you say? I'm master here, I'd have you to know!"

Just then a shrill voice was heard from below:

"Come down, Joe Tucker! Are you goin' to stay upstairs all day?"

"Comin', Abigail!" answered Mr. Tucker hastily, as he backed out of
the room, locking the door behind him. Philip heard the click of the
key as it turned in the lock, and he realized, for the first time in
his life, that he was a prisoner.






CHAPTER XII.

A PAUPER'S MEAL





Half an hour later Philip heard a pounding on the door of his room.

He was unable to open it, but he called out, loud enough for the
outsider to hear:

"Who is it?"

"It's me--Zeke," was the answer that came back.

"Did you tell the Dunbars where I was?" asked Philip eagerly.

"Yes."

"I shouldn't think you had time to go there and back," said Philip,
fearing that Zeke had pocketed his money and then played him false.
But, as we know, he was mistaken in this.

"I didn't go there," shouted Zeke. "I met Frank on the bridge."

"What did he say?"

"He was mad," answered Zeke, laughing. "I thought he would be."

"Did he send any message to me?" asked Philip.

"No; he stopped fishin' and went home." Here the conversation was
interrupted. The loud tones in which Zeke had been speaking, in
order to be heard through the door, had attracted attention below.

His father came to the foot of the attic stairs and demanded
suspiciously:

"What you doin' there, Zeke?"

"Tryin' to cheer up Phil Gray," answered Zeke jocosely.

"He don't need any cheerin' up. He's all right. I reckon you're up
to some mischief."

"No, I ain't."

"Come along down."

"All right, dad, if you say so. Lucky he didn't hear what I was
sayin' about seein' Frank Dunbar," thought Zeke. "He'd be mad."

Presently there was another caller at Philip's room, or, rather,
prison. This time it was Mr. Tucker himself. He turned the key in
the lock and opened the door. Philip looked up inquiringly.

"Supper's ready," announced Joe. "You can come down if you want to."

Philip was provided with an appetite, but he did not relish the idea
of going downstairs and joining the rest of Mr. Tucker's boarders.
It would seem like a tacit admission that he was one of their
number. Of course, he couldn't do without eating, but he had a large
apple in his pocket when captured, and he thought that this would
prevent his suffering from hunger for that night, at least, and he
did not mean to spend another at the Norton poorhouse. The problem
of to-morrow's supply of food might be deferred till then.

"I don't care for any supper," answered Philip.

"Perhaps you expect your meals will be brought up to you?" said Mr.
Tucker, with a sneer.

"I haven't thought about it particularly," said Philip coolly.

"You may think you're spitin' me by not eatin' anything," observed
Mr. Tucker, who was rather alarmed lest Philip might have made up
his mind to starve himself.

This would be embarrassing, for it would make an investigation
necessary.

"Oh, no," answered Philip, smiling; "that never came into my mind."

"I don't mind bringin' you up your supper for once," said Tucker.
"Of course, I can't do it reg'lar, but this is the first night."

"I suppose I shall be better able to make my escape if I eat,"
thought Philip. "Probably the most sensible thing is to accept this
offer."

"How much are you to get for my board, Mr. Tucker?" he asked.

"Only sixty cents," grumbled Tucker. "It ain't enough, but the town
won't pay any more. You've no idea what appetites them paupers has."

"You made a mistake when you agreed to take me" said Philip
gravely. "I'm very hearty, you'll be sure to lose money on me."

Mr. Tucker looked uneasy.

"Well, you see I expect to have you earn part of your board by doin'
chores," he said, after a pause.

"That will give me a good chance to run away," remarked Philip
calmly. "You'll have to let me out of this room to work, you know."

"You wouldn't dare to run away!" said Tucker, trying to frighten
Philip by a blustering manner.

"That shows you don't know me, Mr. Tucker!" returned our hero. "I
give you fair warning that I shall run away the first chance I get."

Philip's tone was so calm and free from excitement that Mr. Tucker
could not help seeing that he was in earnest, and he looked
perplexed.

"You don't look at it in the right light," he said, condescending to
conciliate his new boarder. "If you don't make no trouble, you'll
have a good time, and I'll let you off, now an' then, to play with
Zeke. He needs a boy to play with."

Philip smiled, for the offer did not attract him very much.

"You are very kind," he said, "but I don't think that even that will
reconcile me to staying here with you. But, if you'll agree to let
me pay you for the supper, you may bring me up some."

"The town will pay me," said Tucker.

"That's just what I don't want the town to do," said Philip quickly.
"I will make you an offer. At sixty cents a week the meals for one
day will not cost over ten cents. I'll pay you ten cents for supper
and breakfast."

"You're a cur'us boy," said Tucker. "You want to pay for your
vittles in a free boardin'-house."

"It isn't free to me. At any rate, I don't want it to be. What do
you say?"

"Oh, I ain't no objections to take your money," said Tucker,
laughing. "I didn't know you was so rich."

"I am not rich, but I think I can pay my board as long as I stay
here."

This Philip said because he had decided that his stay should be a
very brief one.

"Just as you say!" chuckled Mr. Tucker.

As he went downstairs he reflected:

"I can take the boy's money and charge his board to the town, too.
There's nothin' to hen-der, and it'll be so much more in my pocket.
I wish the rest of the paupers would foller his example."

He went downstairs and explained to Mrs. Tucker that he wanted
Philip's supper.

"Tell him to come down to the table like the rest of the
folks!" retorted Mrs. Tucker. "He ain't too lazy, is he?"

"No; but it's safer to keep him in his room for the first
twenty-four hours. He's a desperate boy, but I reckon he'll get
tamed after a while."

"I'll desperate him!" said Mrs. Tucker scornfully. "I don't believe
in humorin' him."

"Nor I, Abigail. He'd like to come down, but I won't let him. We can
manage him between us."

"I should smile if we couldn't," said Mrs. Tucker. "If you want any
supper for him, you can get it yourself. I've got too much to do.
No, Widder Jones, you can't have another cup of tea, and you needn't
beg for it. One clip's plenty for you, and it's all we can afford."

"Only this once," pleaded the poor old woman. "I've got a headache."

"Then another cup of tea would only make it worse. If you've got
through your supper, go back to your seat and give more room for the
rest."

While Mrs. Tucker was badgering and domineering over her regular
boarders, her husband put two slices of dry bread on a plate, poured
out a cup of tea, not strong enough to keep the most^ delicate child
awake, and surreptitiously provided an extra luxury in the shape of
a thin slice of cold meat. He felt that, as he was to receive double
price, he ought to deal generously by our hero.

He carried this luxurious supper to the third story, and set it down
before Philip.

Philip promptly produced a dime, which Mr. Tucker pocketed with
satisfaction. He waited till his young guest had finished his
repast, in order himself to carry down the dishes.

There was no butter for the bread, and the tea had been sweetened
scantily. However, Philip had the appetite of a healthy boy, and he
ate and drank everything that had been provided.

"I'll be up in the morning," said Mr. Tucker. "We go to bed early
here. The paupers go to roost at seven, and me and my wife and Zeke
at eight. You'd better go to bed early, too."






CHAPTER XIII.

A FRIENDLY MISSION.





Philip was glad to hear that all in the almshouse went to bed so
early. He had not yet given up the hope of escaping that night,
though he had as yet arranged no definite plan of escape.

Meanwhile, he had an active friend outside. I refer, of course, to
Frank Dunbar. Frank had no sooner heard of his friend's captivity
than he instantly determined, if it were a possible thing, to help
him to escape.

He would not even wait till the next day, but determined after it
was dark to visit the poor-house and reconnoiter. First, he informed
his parents what had befallen Phil. Their indignation was scarcely
less than his.

"Squire Pope is carrying matters with a high hand," said the farmer.
"According to my idea, he has done no less than kidnap Philip,
without the shadow of a legal right."

"Can't he be prosecuted?" asked Frank eagerly.

"I am not sure as to that," answered his father, "but I am confident
that Philip will not be obliged to remain, unless he chooses, a
dependent upon the charity of the town."

"It is outrageous!" said Mrs. Dunbar, who was quite as friendly to
Philip as her husband and son.

"In my opinion," said Mr. Dunbar, "Squire Pope has done a very
unwise thing as regards his own interests. He desires to remain in
office, and the people will not be likely to reelect him if his
policy is to make paupers of those who wish to maintain themselves.
Voters will be apt to think that they are sufficiently taxed already
for the support of those who are actually unable to maintain
themselves."

"If I were a voter," exclaimed Frank indignantly, "I wouldn't vote
for Squire Pope, even for dog-catcher! The meanest part of it is the
underhanded way in which he has taken Phil. He must have known he
was acting illegally, or he would have come here in open day and
required Phil to go with him."

"I agree with you, Frank. Squire Pope may be assured that he has
lost my vote from henceforth. Hitherto I have voted for him annually
for selectman, knowing that he wanted the office and considering him
fairly faithful."

"Father," said Frank, after a thoughtful pause, "do you think Philip
would be justified in escaping from the poorhouse?"

"I do," answered Mr. Dunbar. "In this free country I hold that no
one ought to be made an object of charity against his will."

"Philip is strong enough and smart enough to earn his own living,"
said Frank.

"That is true. I will myself give him his board and clothes if he
will stay with me and work on the farm."

"I wish he would. He would be a splendid companion for me; but I
think he wants to leave Norton, and try his fortune in some larger
place."

"I can't blame him. If his father were living and he had a good
home, I should not think it wise; but, as matters stand, it may not
be a bad plan for him."

"Father," said Frank, after supper, "I am going out and I may not be
back very early."

"Are you going to see Philip?"

"Yes; but I want to see him alone. If possible, I will see him
without attracting the attention of Joe Tucker."

"You won't get into any trouble, Frank?" said his mother anxiously.

"No, mother; I don't know what trouble I can get into."

"You may very likely fail to see Philip," suggested his father. "I
hear that Tucker and his boarders go to bed very early."

"So much the better!" said Frank, in a tone of satisfaction. "The
only one I want to see is Philip, and he isn't likely to go to sleep
very early."

Mr. Dunbar smiled to himself.

"Frank has got some plan in his head," he thought. "I won't inquire
what it is, for he has good common sense, and won't do anything
improper."

About eight o'clock, Frank, after certain preparations, which will
hereafter be referred to, set out for the poorhouse, which was about
a mile distant,






CHAPTER XIV.

PHILIP MAKES HIS ESCAPE.





It grew darker and darker in Philip's chamber, but no one came to
bring him a light. It was assumed that he would go to bed before he
required one.

By seven o'clock the paupers had settled themselves for the night,
and when eight o'clock struck, Mr. and Mrs. Tucker sought their
beds. It was no particular trial for Joe Tucker to go to bed early,
for he was naturally a lazy man, and fond of rest; while his wife,
who worked a great deal harder than he, after being on her feet from
four o'clock in the morning, found it a welcome relief to lie down
and court friendly sleep. Zeke wasn't always ready to go to bed. In
fact, he would much rather have gone up to the village now and then,
but if he had done so he would have had to stay out all night. There
was one thing his parents were strict about, and that was retiring
at eight o'clock.

Philip, however, did not retire at that hour. It was earlier than
his usual hour for bed. Besides, he was in hopes his friend Frank
would make his appearance, and help him, though he didn't exactly
understand how, to make his escape.

At half-past eight it was dark. The stars were out, and the moon was
just making its appearance. Philip had opened his window softly, and
was looking out, when all at once he saw a boyish figure
approaching.

Couldn't be Frank Dunbar.

He hoped so, but in the indistinct light could not be quite certain.

The boy, whoever it might be, approached cautiously, till he stood
within fifty feet of the house.

Then Philip saw that it was indeed Frank, and his heart beat
joyfully. It was something to see a friend, even though they were
separated by what seemed to him to be an impassable gulf.

About the same time, Frank recognized his friend, in the boyish
figure at the window.

"Is that you, Phil?" he asked, in a guarded voice, yet loud enough
to be heard.

"Yes, Frank; I have been expecting you. I knew you wouldn't desert
me."

"I should think not. I didn't come before, because I didn't want to
be seen by any of Tucker's folks."

"They are all abed now, and I hope asleep."

"Can't you come downstairs, and steal away?"

"No; my chamber door is locked on the outside."

"That's what I thought."

"Can't you help me in any way?"

"I'll see. Suppose you had a rope--could you swing out of the
window?"

"Yes; I could fasten it to the bedstead, and fix that just against
the window."

"Then I think I can help you. Can you catch a ball?"

"Yes; but what good will that do?"

"You'll see. Make ready now, and don't miss it."

He produced a ball of common size, and after taking aim, threw it
lightly up toward Philip's window. The first time it didn't come
within reach. The second Philip caught it skilfully, and by the
moonlight saw that a stout piece of twine was attached to it. At the
end of the twine Frank had connected it with a clothesline which he
had borrowed from home.

"Now pull away, Phil," urged Frank.

Philip did, and soon had the stout line in his possession.

"It will hold; it's new and strong," said Frank. "Father only bought
it last week. I didn't think, then, what use we should have for it."

Philip, however, was not afraid. He was so anxious to escape that,
even if there had been any risk to run, he would readily have
incurred it for the sake of getting away from the poor-house, in
which he was unwilling to spend a single night. He fastened one end
of the rope firmly to his bedstead, as he had proposed, then
cautiously got upon the window-sill and lowered himself, descending
hand over hand till he reached the ground.

He breathed a sigh of relief as he detached himself from the rope
and stood beside Frank Dunbar.

Just then the boys heard a second-story window open, and saw Mr.
Tucker's head projecting from it.






CHAPTER XV.

ESCAPE AND FLIGHT.





Though the boys had made as little noise as possible, conversing in
an undertone, they had been heard by Mrs. Tucker. Her husband, as
was his custom, had gone to sleep; but Mrs. Tucker, who, during the
day, had discovered the loss of ten cents from her bureau drawer in
which she kept her savings, had been kept awake by mental trouble.
Some of my readers may think so small a loss scarcely worth keeping
awake for, but Mrs. Joe Tucker was a strictly economical and saving
woman--some even called her penurious--and the loss of ten cents
troubled her.

She would have laid it to one of "them paupers," as she was wont
contemptuously to refer to them, except that she never allowed one
of them to enter the sacred precincts of her chamber.

A horrible thought entered her mind. Could it be Zeke, the boy whom
she thought such a paragon, though no one else had been able to
discover his virtues or attractions! She did not like to think of
it, but it did occur to her that Zeke, the previous day, had asked
her for ten cents, though he would not own the purpose for which he
wanted it. The boy might have been tempted to take the money. At any
rate, she would go and see.

Zeke slept in a small room adjoining. When his mother entered, with
a candle in her hand, he was lying asleep, with his mouth wide open,
and one arm dropped over the side of the bed.

Mrs. Tucker took a look at him, and saw that he was wrapped in
slumber and unable to notice what she proposed to do. His clothes
were thrown down carelessly on a chair near-by.

Mrs. Tucker searched first in the pockets of his pants, and, though
she discovered a large variety of miscellaneous articles, "of no use
to any one except the owner," she didn't discover any traces of the
missing dime. She began to hope that he had not taken it, after all,
although, in that case, the loss would continue to be shrouded in
obscurity. But, on continuing her search, she discovered in one of
the pockets of his vest a silver ten-cent piece.

Mrs. Tucker's eyes flashed, partly with indignation at Zeke's
dishonesty, partly with joy at the recovery of the missing coin.

"I've found you out, you bad boy!" she said, in a low voice, shaking
her fist at the sleeping boy. "I wouldn't have believed that my Zeke
would have robbed his own mother. We must have a reckoning
to-morrow."

She was half-inclined to wake Zeke up and charge him with his crime,
confronting him with the evidence of it which she had just
discovered; but on second thoughts she decided that she might as
well let him sleep, as the next day would do just as well.

Poor Zeke! he was not guilty, after all, though whether his honesty
was strict enough to resist a powerful temptation, I am not sure.

The dime which Mrs. Tucker had discovered was the same one that
Philip had given to Zeke in return for his service in notifying
Frank Dunbar of his captivity. In another pocket was the five-cent
piece given him by Frank, but that had escaped his mother's
attention.

The reader will understand now how it happened that Mrs. Tucker was
kept awake beyond her usual time. She was broad awake when Frank
Dunbar arrived, and she heard something through the partially open
window of the conference between the two boys. She heard the voices
that is to say, but could not tell what was said.

With her mind dwelling upon Zeke's supposed theft, however, she was
more easily frightened than usual, and immediately jumped to the
conclusion that there were burglars outside, trying to get in.

The absurdity of burglars attempting to rob the town poorhouse did
not occur to her in panic. She sat up in bed, and proceeded to nudge
her husband in no gentle fashion.

"Mr. Tucker!" she exclaimed.

Her husband responded by an inarticulate murmur, but did not wake.

"Mr. Tucker!" she exclaimed, in a louder voice, giving him a still
more vigorous shake.

"Eh! What! What's the matter?" said Tucker, opening his eyes at
last, and staring vacantly at his wife.

"What's the matter!" retorted his wife impatiently. "The matter is
that there's burglars outside!"

"Let 'em stay outside!" said Joe Tucker, in a sleepy tone.

"Did any one ever hear such a fool?" exclaimed Mrs. Tucker,
exasperated. "They're trying to get in. Do you hear that, Mr.
Tucker?"

"Trying to get in! Is the door locked?" asked Joe, a little alarmed.

"You must get up and defend the house," continued Mrs. Tucker.

Now, Mr. Tucker was not a brave man. He had no fancy for having a
hand-to-hand conflict with burglars, who might be presumed to be
desperate men. It occurred to him that it would be decidedly better
to stay where he was and ran no risk.

"Never mind, Abigail," he said, soothingly. "The burglars can't do
us any harm. They ean't do any more than carry off a pauper or two,
and I don't, believe they'll do that."

"I wouldn't mind that, Mr. Tucker; but I've left the spoons
down-stairs!" answered his wife.

"How many are there!"

"Six. I want you to go down and get them and bring them up here,
where they will be safe."

"But suppose I should meet some of the burglars!" suggested Tucker,
trembling.

"Then you must defend yourself like a man!"

"You might find me in the morning weltering in my gore!" said Joe,
with an uneasy shudder.

"Are we to have the spoons stolen, then!" demanded Mrs. Tucker
sharply.

"If you care so much for the spoons, Abigail, you'd better go
down-stairs yourself and get 'em. I don't value them as much as my
life."

"I don't know but I will, if you'll look out of the window and see
whether you can see any of the burglars outside," responded Mrs.
Tucker. "If they haven't got in yet, I'll take the risk."

"Where did you hear 'em, Abigail?"

"Eight outside. Open the window and look out, and you may see 'em."

Mr. Tucker was not entirely willing to do this, but still he
preferred it to going down-stairs after the spoons, and accordingly
he advanced, and, lifting the window, put his head out, as described
at the close of the last chapter.

Philip and Frank were just ready to go when they heard the window
rising, and naturally looked up in some trepidation.

"It's old Tucker!" said Frank, in a low voice.

Philip looked up, and saw that his friend was right.

Mr. Tucker had not yet discovered them, but the whisper caught his
ear, and looking down he caught sight of the two boys.

In his alarm, and the obscurity of the night, he did not make out
that they were boys and not men, and was about to withdraw his head
in alarm, when a mischievous impulse seized Frank Dunbar.

"Give me the ball, Philip!" he said quickly.

Philip complied with his request, not understanding his intention.

Now, Frank belonged to a baseball club, and had a capital aim. He
threw up the ball and struck Mr. Tucker fairly in the nose. The
effect upon the terrified Joe was startling.

Full as his mind was of burglars, he fancied that it was something a
great deal more deadly that had struck him.

"Oh, Abigail! I'm shot through the brain!" he moaned in anguish, as
he poked in his head and fell back upon the floor.

"What do you mean, Joe?" asked his wife, in alarm, as she hastened
to her prostrate husband, whose hand was pressed convulsively upon
the injured organ, which, naturally ached badly with the force of
the blow.

"I'm a dead man!" moaned Mr. Tucker; "and it's all your fault. You
made me go to the window."

"I don't believe you're shot at all! I didn't hear any report," said
Mrs. Tucker. "Let me see your face."

Mr. Tucker withdrew his hand mournfully.

"You've only been struck with a rock or something," said she, after
a careful examination.

"It's bleeding!" groaned Job, seeing a dark stain on his
night-dress.

"Suppose it is--it won't kill you. I'll look out myself."

But she saw nothing. Philip and Frank had immediately taken to
flight, and vanished in the darkness.

"They've run away!" announced Mrs. Tucker. "My spoons are safe."

"But my nose isn't," groaned Mr. Tucker.

"You won't die this time," said Mrs. Tucker, not very
sympathetically. "Soak your nose in the wash-basin, and you'll be
all right in the morning."

The two boys were destined to have another adventure that night.






CHAPTER XVI.

A NIGHT ADVENTURE.





"I didn't mean to hit him," said Frank, as he and Philip hurried away
from the poorhouse, "I only intended to give him a fright."

"I think you have. I wonder whether he recognized us!"

"I don't believe it. He had hardly got his head out of the window
before I let drive."

"Then he won't imagine I have escaped."

"What are your plans, Phil? Suppose they try to take you back to the
poorhouse?"

"They won't get the chance. Before five o'clock to-morrow morning I
shall leave Norton."

"Leave town?" exclaimed Frank, in surprise. "And so soon?"

"Yes. There is nothing for me to do here."

"Father would like to have you stay and assist him on the farm. He
said so to me. He wouldn't be able to pay much, but I think we would
have a good time together."

Philip pressed his friend's hand warmly.

"I know we should, Frank," he said, "but if I remained here, it
would only remind me of my poor father. I would rather go out into
the world and try my fortune."

"Isn't it risky, Phil?" objected Frank doubtfully.

"I suppose it is; but I am willing to work, and I don't expect
much."

"Suppose you fall sick?"

"Then, if I can, I will come back to you and your good father and
mother, and stay till I am well."

"Promise me that, Phil?"

"I promise."

"I wish I could go with you, Phil," said Frank, with a boyish
impulse.

"No, it wouldn't be wise for you. You have a good home, and you will
be better off there than among strangers."

"It might be your home, too, Phil."

"Thank you; but I shall be better away from Norton for a time."

A minute later, Frank said suddenly:

"There's Squire Pope coming. He will see you."

"I don't care. He won't take me back."

"Get behind the stone wall, and I will wait and interview him."

Philip immediately followed the advice of his friend. He was curious
to hear what the squire would say.

Squire Pope's eyesight was not good, and it was only when he came
near that he recognized Frank Dunbar. He stopped short, for there
was a subject on which he wished to speak.

"Frank Dunbar!" he said.

"Do you wish to speak to me, sir?" inquired Frank coldly.

"Yes. Where have you been?"

"Out walking," answered Frank shortly.

"Have you been to the poorhouse?"

"I have."

"Did you see Philip?"

"I saw him looking out of a third-story window."

Squire Pope chuckled, if, indeed, such a dignified man can be said
to chuckle.

"What did he say?" he condescended to inquire.

"That he wouldn't stay."

"He will have to," responded Squire Pope complacently. "Mr. Tucker
will see to that."

"Probably Mr. Tucker will wake up some fine morning and find Phil's
room empty," said Frank quietly.

"I'll take the risk of it," returned the squire serenely. "But
there's a matter I want to speak to you about. You've got Philip's
fiddle in your possession."

"Suppose I have."

"I wish you to bring it round to my house in the morning, and I'll
give you something for your trouble."

"You must excuse me, Squire Pope. If it were your property, I would
bring it to you and charge nothing for my trouble."

"Young man," said the squire sternly. "I am Philip's legal guardian,
and I have a right to receive his violin. You will get into trouble
if you resist my authority."

"If you will give me Philip's order for it, you shall have it, sir."

"Frank Dunbar, you are trifling with me. Philip is now a pauper, and
has no right to hold property of any kind. He cannot give a legal
order."

"Then you are guardian to a pauper?"

"In my capacity of overseer of the poor."

"In my capacity as Philip's friend, I refuse to consider you his
guardian. You may call him a pauper, but that doesn't make him one."

"He is an inmate of the Norton Poorhouse."

Frank laughed.

"I don't want to be disrespectful, Squire Pope," he said; "but I
can't help telling you that you undertook a bigger job than you
thought for, when you made up your mind to make a pauper of Philip
Gray."

Squire Pope was indignant at the coolness of Frank.

"I shall come to your house to-morrow morning," he said, "and
convince you to the contrary."

"Very well, sir."

Frank Dunbar bowed, and the squire went his way.

"That's a very impudent boy!" he soliloquized. "Just like the Gray
boy. It wouldn't do him any harm to put him under Joe Tucker's care,
too."

After the squire had passed on, Philip came out from behind the
stone wall.

"Did you hear what passed between your guardian and myself?" asked
Frank.

"Yes, I heard every word."

"He little thought that the bird had flown, Phil."

"He will make all the trouble he can. That is one more reason why I
think it best to leave town."

"I wouldn't let Squire Pope drive you out of town."

"I would stay and face the music if it suited me, but I want to go
away."

"Suppose we cut across this field. It will be a little nearer."

"All right."

There was a pathway through a pasture-lot, comprising some ten
acres, poor land, covered with puny bushes, and a few gnarled trees,
producing cider-apples. It belonged to an old bachelor farmer, who
lived in solitary fashion, doing his own cooking, and in general
taking care of himself. He was reputed to have money concealed about
his premises, which was quite probable, as he spent little, and was
known to have received, four years before, a considerable legacy
from the estate of a brother who had died, a successful merchant in
the city of New York.

The boys had to pass by the small and weather-stained house where he
lived, as the path ran very near it.

When within a few rods of the house, the boys were startled by a
sharp cry of terror, which appeared to proceed from inside the
house.

Both simultaneously stood still.

"What's that!" exclaimed both in concert.

"Somebody must be trying to rob Mr. Lovett," suggested Frank.

"Can't we do something!" said Phil quickly.

"We can try."

There were two stout sticks or clubs lying on the ground at their
feet. They stooped, picked them up, and ran to the house. A glance
showed that one of the windows on the north side had been raised.

The window sill was low. Pausing a moment before springing over it
into the room, they looked in and this was what they saw:

The farmer lay half-prostrate on the floor, half supporting himself
by a chair, which he had mechanically grasped as he was forced
downward. Over him stood a ruffianly looking tramp, whom Phil
remembered to have seen about the streets during the day, with a
stick uplifted. He had not heard the approach of the boys.

"Give me two hundred dollars, and I'll go," he said to the man at
his feet.

"I cannot do it. I haven't got as much here."

"That's a lie!" said the other coarsely. "I heard all about you
to-day. You're a miser, and you've got no end of money stowed away
here. Get it for me, quick, or I'll dash your brains out."

Just then the prostrate farmer saw what the tramp could not see, his
back being turned to the window, the faces of the two boys looking
through the window. Fresh courage came to him. Single-handed, and
taken at advantage, he was no match for the ruffian who had entered
his house; but with these two young auxiliaries he felt that all was
not lost.






CHAPTER XVII.

A REFORMED BURGLAR.





"What do you say!" demanded the tramp impatiently. "Speak quick! I
can't stay here all night."

"Let me up, and I'll see if I can find the money for you."

"I thought I'd bring you to terms," said the tramp, laughing grimly.

He allowed his victim to rise, as he certainly would not have done
if he had looked behind him and seen the two boys at the window.

"Now's our time," answered Philip.

He gave a light spring into the room, followed by Frank.

Of course, the tramp heard them, and turned in sudden alarm. As he
turned, the farmer snatched the club from his hand, and he found
himself unexpectedly unarmed and confronted by three enemies.

"It's my turn now," said Lovett. "Do you surrender?"

The tramp saw that the game was up and made a dash for the open
window, but Philip skillfully inserted a stick between his legs, and
tripped him up, and, with the help of Mr. Lovett, held him,
struggling desperately, till Frank fetched a rope, with which he was
securely bound.

"Confound you!" he said, scowling at the two boys. "But for you I
would have succeeded and got away with my booty."

"That's true!" said the farmer. "I owe my escape from robbery, and,
perhaps, bodily injury, to you."

"I am glad we were at hand," said Philip.

"And now, my friend," said the farmer, "I may as well say that you
were quite mistaken in supposing I kept a large amount of money in
this lonely house. I should be a fool to do it, and I am not such a
fool as that."

"Where do you keep your money, then?" growled the tramp.

"In different savings-banks. I am ready to tell you, for it will do
you no good."

"I wish I'd known it sooner. I came here on a fool's errand."

"I am glad you have found it out."

"Now, what are you going to do with me!"

"Keep you here till I can deliver you into the hands of the law."

"That won't do you any good."

"It will give you a home, where you cannot prey on the community."

"I don't mean to do so any more. I'm going to turn over a new leaf
and become an honest man--that is, if you'll let me go."

"Your conversion is rather sudden. I haven't any faith in it."

"Listen to me," said the man, "and then decide. Do you think I am a
confirmed lawbreaker?"

"You look like it."

"Yes, I do; but I am not. Never in my life have I been confined in
any prison or penitentiary. I have never been arrested on any
charge. I see you don't believe me. Let me tell you how I came to be
what I am: Two years since I was a mechanic, tolerably well-to-do,
owning a house with a small mortgage upon it. It was burned to the
ground one night. I built another, but failed to insure it. Six
months since, that, too, burned down, and left me penniless and in
debt. Under this last blow I lost all courage. I left the town where
I had long lived, and began a wandering life. In other words, I
became a tramp. Steadily I lost my self-respect till I was content
to live on such help as the charitable chose to bestow on me. It was
not until to-day that I formed the plan of stealing. I heard in the
village that you kept a large sum of money in your house, and an
evil temptation assailed me. I had become tired of wandering, and
determined to raise a sum which would enable me to live at ease for
a time, I should have succeeded but for these two boys."

"And you are sorry you did not succeed?"

"I was, five minutes since, but I feel differently now. I have been
saved from crime. Now, I have told you my story. Do with me as you
will."

The man's appearance was rough, but there was something in his tone
which led Mr. Lovett to think that he was speaking the truth.

"Boys," he said, "you have heard what this man says. What do you
think of it?"

"I believe him!" said Philip promptly.

"Thank you, boy," said the tramp. "I am glad some one has confidence
in me."

"I believe you, too," said Frank.

"I have not deceived you. Your words have done me more good than you
think. It is my first attempt to steal, and it shall be my last."

"If you want to become an honest man, God forbid that I should do
aught to prevent you!" said the farmer. "I may be acting unwisely,
but I mean to cut this rope and let you go."

"Will you really do this?" said the tramp, his face lighting up with
mingled joy and surprise.

"I will."

He knelt on the floor, and drawing from his pocket a large
jack-knife, cut the rope.

The tramp sprang to his feet.

"Thank you," he said, in a husky voice. "I believe you are a good
man. There are not many who would treat me as generously,
considering what I tried to do just now. You sha'n't repent it. Will
you give me your hand!"

"Gladly," said the farmer; and he placed his hand in that of the
visitor, lately so unwelcome. "I wish you better luck."

"Boys, will you give me your hands, too?" asked tke tramp, turning
to Philip and Frank.

Tke boys readily complied with his request, and repeated the good
wishes of the farmer.

The stranger was about to leave the house, when Lovett said:

"Stay, my friend, I wish to ask you a question."

"Very well, sir."

"Have you any money?"

"Not a cent."

"Then take this," said the farmer, drawing from his vest pocket a
five-dollar bill. "I lend it to you. Some time you will be able to
repay it, if you keep to your resolution of leading an honest life.
When that time comes, lend it to some man who needs it as you do
now."

"Thank you, sir. I will take it, for it will help me greatly at this
time. Good-by! If you ever see me again, you will see a different
man."

He leaped through the window and was gone.

"I don't know if I have done a wise thing, but I will take the
risk," said the farmer. "And now, boys, I want to make you some
return for your assistance to-night." Both Frank and Philip
earnestly protested that they would receive nothing in the
conversation that ensued. Philip made known his intention to leave
Norton the next morning.

"What are your plans? Where do you mean to go?" asked the farmer.

"I don't know, sir. I shall make up my mind as I go along. I think I
can make my living somehow."

"Wait here five minutes," said Lovett, and he went into an adjoining
room.

Within the time mentioned, he returned, holding in his hand a sealed
letter.

"Philip," he said, "put this envelope in your pocket, and don't open
it till you are fifty miles from here."

"Very well, sir," answered Philip, rather puzzled, but not so much
surprised as he might have been if he had not known the farmer's
reputation for eccentricity.

"I suppose it contains some good advice," he thought. "Well, good
advice is what I need."

The two boys went home immediately upon leaving the farmhouse.
Though so much had happened, it was not late, being not quite
half-past nine.

Philip received a cordial welcome from Mr. and Mrs. Dunbar, who,
however, hardly expected to see him so soon. "Are you willing to
receive a pauper beneath your roof?" asked Philip, smiling.

"That you will never be while you have health and strength, I'll be
bound," said Mr. Dunbar. "I like your pride and independence,
Philip."

They tried to induce Philip to give up his resolution to leave
Norton the next morning, but did not succeed.

"I will come back some time," he said. "Now I feel better to go."

At five o'clock the next morning, with a small bundle swung over his
shoulder, attached to a stick, Philip Gray, carrying his violin,
left the village, which, for some years, had been his home. Frank
accompanied him for the first mile of his journey. Then the two
friends shook hands and parted--not without sorrow, for who could
tell when they would meet again?






CHAPTER XVIII.

A PROFESSIONAL ENGAGEMENT.





A depressing feeling of loneliness came to Phil after he had parted
with Frank. He was going out into the world with no one to lean
upon, and no one to sympathize with him or lend him a helping hand.
No wonder he felt friendless and alone. But this mood did not last
long.

"I shall find friends if I deserve them," he reflected, "and I don't
mean to do anything dishonorable or wrong. I am willing to work, and
I believe I can make a living."

Leaving him to proceed, we go back to the poor-house, where his
absence was not noticed till morning.

Job Tucker, in spite of the blow which his nasal organ had received,
slept pretty comfortably, and was awakened at an early hour by his
vigilant spouse.

"You'd better go up and wake that boy and set him to work, Mr.
Tucker," she said. "There are plenty of chores for him to do."

"You are right, Abigail," said Mr. Tucker, with approval. He
reflected that he could assign to Philip some of the work which
generally fell to himself, and the reflection was an agreeable one.
He had tried to get work out of Zeke, but he generally found that it
was harder to keep him at work than it was to do the job himself.

After he had made his toilet--not a very elaborate one--Mr. Tucker
went up-stairs to arouse his young prisoner. He found the key in the
outside of the door. Everything seemed right.

"I wonder how he feels this morning?" chuckled Mr. Tucker. "Wonder
whether he's tamed down a little?"

He turned the key in the lock and threw open the door. He glanced at
the bed, started in amazement to find that it had not been slept in,
and then his wonder ceased, for the telltale rope explained how the
boy had escaped.

He ran down-stairs in anger and excitement.

"What's the matter with you, Joe Tucker?" demanded his wife. "Are
you drunk or crazy?"

"Enough to make me both, wife," he answered. "The boy's gone!"

"Gone!" exclaimed Mrs. Tucker, stopping short, with a saucepan in
her hand.

"Gone!" ejaculated Zeke, his mouth wide open.

"I don't believe it," said Mrs. Tucker positively. "He couldn't go.
He'd have to jump out of the third-story window."

"Sure enough!" said Zeke.

"I can't help it--he's gone," declared Mr. Tucker. "He tied a
clothesline to the bedstead and let himself down from the window.
Now, I want to know who left a clothesline in the room?"

"There wasn't any," said Mrs. Tucker.

"Maybe he had one in his pocket," suggested Zeke.

But this suggestion was not considered worthy of notice by his
parents.

"Now I know who hit me in the nose!" exclaimed Mr. Tucker, light
flashing upon him. "There was two of 'em--the ones I took for
burglars."

"Then the other one must have been Frank Dunbar," said Mrs. Tucker.

"Zeke," said his father, "go right off and tell Squire Pope that
Philip Gray has escaped. Ask him if I can't have him arrested for
assault and battery. It's likely he's at Frank Dunbar's now. We'll
have him back before the day is out, and then I'll see he don't get
out!"

"All right, dad! As soon as I've had breakfast I'll go."

The result of Zeke's message was that Squire Pope hurried over to
the poorhouse and held a conference with Mr. and Mrs. Tucker.

The next step was that he and Joe rode over to Mr. Dunbar's, to
demand the return of the fugitive.

They found Frank splitting wood in the yard. To him they made known
their errand, requesting him to call Philip out.

"He isn't here," answered Frank.

"Isn't here? I don't believe it!" said the squire hastily.

"Sorry you doubt my word, Squire Pope, but it's just as I say."

"Where is he, then?" demanded the squire suspiciously.

"He has left town."

"Left town?" repeated the squire and Joe Tucker, in dismay. "Where
is he gone!"

"He's probably ten miles away by this time," answered Frank,
enjoying their perplexity. "I guess you'd better wait till he comes
back."

Job and the squire conferred together, but no satisfactory result
was arrived at, except it wouldn't pay to pursue Philip, for two
reasons--one, because they were quite uncertain in what direction he
had gone; another, because, even if overtaken, they would have no
authority to apprehend him, since he had been guilty of no crime.

Finally a bright idea came to the squire.

"Bring me out his fiddle," he said to Frank. "I'm his guardian, and
I will take care of it for him."

"He carried it away with him," said Frank. The squire's lower jaw
fell. He was defeated at all points. "I guess we can't do nothing,
under the circumstances, squire," said Job Tucker, scratching his
head.

"I shall have to reflect upon it," said Squire Pope, in a
crestfallen tone.

"That's as good as a circus," thought Frank, as his roguish glance
followed the two baffled conspirators as they rode out of the yard.
"It's a pity Phil was not here to enjoy it."

At the end of the second day, Philip was some forty miles distant
from Norton. He had not walked all the way, but had got a lift for a
few miles from a tin-peddler, with whom he had a social chat.

It cannot be said that he was depressed, or that he regretted having
left Norton, but he certainly did feel uncomfortable, and his
discomfort sprang from a very homely cause.

To tell the plain truth, he was hungry. He had not had anything to
eat for six hours except an apple, which he had picked up by the
roadside, and during those six hours he had walked not far from
fifteen miles.

"I believe I never was so hungry before," thought Philip. "The
question is, where is my supper to come from?"

Although he knew pretty well the state of his finances, he began to
search his pockets to see if he could not somewhere find a stray
dime, or, better still, a quarter, with which to purchase the meal
of which he stood so much in need. But his search was unproductive,
or, rather, it only resulted in the discovery of a battered cent.

"So that penny constitutes my whole fortune," thought Philip.

There were two houses in sight, one on each side of the road.

Probably they would have given Philip a supper at either, but our
hero's honest pride revolted at the idea of begging for a meal, much
as he stood in need of it. He might as well be a pauper, as he
justly reflected. So he pushed on.

Evidently he was drawing near a village, for houses began to appear
at nearer intervals.

"Hello, my boy! Where are you traveling!" asked a hearty voice.

Philip turned round, and his glance rested on a stout young farmer,
whose face, though very much sunburned, was pleasant and
good-natured.

"I don't know," answered Philip.

"Don't know?" was repeated in surprise.

"I am in search of work."

"Oh, that's it! Are you a musician?" asked the young man, looking at
the violin.

"Yes; a little of one."

"Are you looking for a job at fiddling?" asked the young man.

"Yes, if I can find one," answered Philip, smiling.

"Can you play dancing-music?"

"Yes."

"Then I guess I can get you a job for this evening."

"I wish you could," said Philip hopefully, catching at a way out of
his troubles.

"You see, there's to be a little dance in School-house Hall
to-night," said the farmer; "or there was to be one, but the
fiddler's took sick, and we was afraid we'd have to give it up. Now,
if you'll take his place, we can have it, after all."

"I'll do it," said Philip promptly.

"What'll you charge?"

"How much was the other one going to charge?"

"Five dollars. You see, he would have to come six miles."

"I'll come for three dollars and my supper and lodging," said
Philip.

"All right! You shall have supper and lodging at our house. There it
is, down that lane. Come right along, for supper must be on the
table. After supper I'll go and tell the committee I've engaged
you."

Philip's spirits rose. Help had come from an unexpected quarter. He
felt that a new career was opening before him.






CHAPTER XIX.

NEW ACQUAINTANCES.





On his way to the farmhouse, Philip ascertained that his companion's
name was Abner Webb, and that he and his brother Jonas carried on a
farm of about a hundred acres. Abner appeared to be about
twenty-five years old.

"You seem pretty young to be a fiddler," said the young man,
surveying Philip with a glance of curiosity.

"I am almost sixteen."

"I am twenty-five, and I can't play at all."

"It isn't all in the age," returned our hero. "Did you ever try to
learn?"

"Yes, I took one or two lessons, but I had to give it up for a bad
job. I couldn't get into it somehow."

"You didn't try very long," said Philip, smiling.

"I reckon I'd never do much at it. How long have you been a
fiddler?"

"I've been playing three or four years."

"Sho! You don't say so! Do you like it?"

"Yes; very much."

"Well, I'm glad you happened along. It would have been a pity to
have our dance spoiled."

By this time they had reached the farmhouse, and Abner went in,
followed by our hero.

A young woman, his brother's wife, looked at Philip in some
surprise.

"You see, I've got a fiddler, after all," said Abner gleefully. "We
won't have to put off the dance."

As he spoke, his brother Jonas came into the room, and the
explanation was repeated.

"That's good," said Jonas heartily. "You'd better go down to the
store after supper, Abner, and tell the boys, for they've just heard
that Paul Beck can't come."

"You just save me some supper, and I'll go now. The boy'll stay with
us to-night. That's the bargain I made with him."

"He's heartily welcome," said Jonas Webb, a pleasant-faced man, with
sandy complexion, who was probably from two to three years older
than his brother. "You've happened along just at the right time."

"I am glad of it," said Philip; and there is no doubt he was
sincere, for we know how much he stood in need of employment, though
he naturally did not care to let his new friends know of his
destitution.

"My brother didn't tell me your name," said Jonas.

"My name is Philip Gray," answered our hero.

"Do you go round playing for dances?" inquired Jonas.

"I have only just begun."

Philip didn't think it necessary to say that the idea of making
money in this way had never occurred to him till this very day.

"Sit right up to supper, Jonas, and you, too, Mr. Gray," said Mrs.
Webb.

Philip was by no means loath, for the dishes which he saw on the
table had had the effect of stimulating his appetite, already
sharpened by his long walk and long fast.

Philip, as the guest, was first helped to a bountiful supply of cold
meat, a hot biscuit, and some golden butter, not to mention two
kinds of preserves, for the Webbs always lived well. He was not slow
in doing justice to the good supper spread before him. He was almost
afraid to eat as much as he wanted, lest his appetite should attract
attention, and, therefore, was pleased to see that Jonas quite kept
pace with him.

Indeed, when he had already eaten as much as he dared, Mrs. Webb
said, hospitably:

"I am afraid, Mr. Gray, you won't make out a supper."

"I don't think there is any danger of that," said Philip, smiling.
"I have enjoyed my supper very much."

The young woman looked gratified by this tribute to her cooking, and
just then Abner came in.

"Did you see the boys, Abner?" asked Jonas.

"Yes, I saw them all. They were awfully glad we could have the
dance, after all. You see, we've been lookin' forward to it, and
didn't like to be disappointed. And now I must hurry down my supper,
for I've got to slick up and go for Mary Ann Temple. Are you goin',
Lucy?"

"Of course she is," answered Jonas. "I don't have so far to go for
my girl as you do," he added slyly.

"You used to go farther once, Jonas--six miles, where I have only to
go two."

When supper was over, Philip inquired:

"How early will the dance commence?"

"About eight. We keep early hours in the country, and we like to get
our money's worth."

"If you have no objection, I will go out to the barn and try my
violin a little to see if it is in good tune."

"Try it in the next room," said the farmer's wife.

"Yes, do!" said her husband. "We'd like to hear you."

He was a little afraid, judging from Philip's youth, that he could
not play very well, and this would give him an opportunity of
deciding how competent the boy was to take the place of Paul Beck,
of Pomfret, who had quite a reputation in the towns around.

Philip went into the next room and began to prepare himself for his
evening's task. Though lus training had by no means been confined to
dancing-tunes, he was quite proficient in that department, having
more than once been called upon in Norton to officiate in a similar
capacity.

When Jonas had listened for five minutes to Philip, he turned to
Abner with a satisfied look.

"He understands his business," he said, nodding with emphasis. "He
ain't no new beginner."

"I think he beats Paul Beck," said Abner, delighted to find his
choice approved.

"I don't know but he does. I feel as if I wanted to start off now."

"I don't see how he does it," said Abner, with a puzzled look. "I
never could do anything at it, though I'm almost twice as old."

He passed into the room where Philip was practising.

"You're a tip-top player," said he, to Philip admiringly. "Why, you
beat Paul Beck."

"Is he the one you expected to have?"

"Yes. Paul's got a big name for fiddlin'."

"I am glad you like my playing," said Philip, who was naturally
pleased to find that he was likely to give satisfaction in his new
business.

"The boys will be pleased, I can tell you."

"I will do all I can to give them satisfaction," said Philip
modestly.

"Oh, you will! there's no doubt about that. How much did you pay for
your fiddle?"

"I believe it cost twenty-five dollars. My father gave it to me."

"Sho! I didn't think fiddles cost so much."

"Some cost a great deal more."

"Seems a good deal to lay out, but you'll get your money back, if
you can get enough to do."

"I hope so."

"Well, you must excuse me now. I've got to slick up, and go after
Mary Ann Temple. She'd have been awfully disappointed if we'd had to
give it up."

"Is she fond of dancing?"

"You'd better believe she is. Why, that girl could dance for four
hours stiddy--without wiltin'!"

"How late do you keep it up?"

"Till eleven or twelve. You won't be sleepy, will you?"

"If I am, I will get up later to-morrow morning."

"That's all right. You can get up jest as late as you like. Lucy
will save you some breakfast. We don't allow no one to go hungry
here. But I must be off. You will go to the hall along with Jonas
and Lucy. They'll introduce you round and see that you are taken
care of." Philip congratulated himself on being so well provided
for, at least for one night. The future was uncertain, but with the
money which he was to receive for his services, he would be able to
get along for two or three days, and he might, perhaps, if
successful, obtain another similar engagement.

He had a new reason for being thankful that Squire Pope had not
succeeded in depriving him of his violin, for this was likely to
prove a breadwinner.

He continued to practice till it was time to go over to the hall.






CHAPTER XX.

A LIVELY EVENING.





Schoolhouse Hall, as may be inferred, was a large hall, occupying
the second story of the Center Schoolhouse, and though not
originally intended for dancing-parties, answered very well for that
purpose.

The hall was tolerably well filled when Philip entered in company
with Jonas Webb and his wife.

Philip had effaced, as well as he could, the stains of travel, had
arrayed himself in a clean shirt and collar, brushed his hair
neatly, and, being naturally a very good-looking boy, appeared to
very good advantage, though he certainly did look young.

As he walked through the hall, with his violin under his arm, he
attracted the attention of all, it having been already made known
that in place of the veteran Paul Beck--a man of fifty or more--an
unknown boy would furnish the music for the evening.

Philip could not avoid hearing some of the remarks which his
appearance excited. "What! that little runt play the fiddle?" said
one countrified young man, in a short-waisted blue coat, and
tow-colored hair, plastered down on either side of his head with
tallow. "I don't believe he can play any more than I can."

"I hope he can," retained his partner--a plump, red-cheeked, young
farmer's daughter. "He's very good-looking, anyhow."

"He isn't anything to brag of," said her partner jealously.

"Oh, how can you say so, Jedidiah. I See what beautiful black hair
and eyes he's got, and such a lovely color on his cheeks!"

Now, Jedidiah, in appearance, was just the reverse of Philip. His
hair, as already stated, was tow-color, his face was tanned, and the
color rather resembled brick-dust than the deep red of our hero's
cheeks.

His partner was a rustic flirt, and he was disposed to be jealous,
not being certain how far she favored him. He, therefore, took
offense at his partner's admiration of the young fiddler.

"He looks very common to me," said Jedidiah pettishly. "You've got a
strange taste, Maria."

"Perhaps I have, and perhaps I haven't," retorted Maria, tossing her
head.

"Perhaps you're in love with him?" continued Jedidiah, in a tone
meant to be sarcastic,

"I should be if he was a little older," said the young lady, rather
enjoying her lover's displeasure.

"I don't believe he can play at all," growled Jedidiah. "He's fooled
Abner Webb, like as not. It's a pity we couldn't have Paul Beck."

"Very likely he can play better than Paul Beck," said Maria--not
because she thought so, but because she knew it would tease her
partner.

"Don't be a fool, Maria," said Jedidiah, scarcely conscious of the
impoliteness of his speech.

The young lady, however, resented it at once.

"I am sure you are very polite, Mr. Jedidiah Burbank--so polite that
I think you had better find another partner!"

"Excuse me, Maria," said Jedidiah hastily, alarmed at the prospect
of being left without a partner. "Of course, I didn't mean
anything."

"If you didn't mean it, what made you say it?" retorted Maria,
tossing her head. "I ain't used to being called a fool. I never knew
a gentleman to make such a remark to a lady. I think you'd better
find some other partner."

"I take it all back," said Jedidiah, in alarm. "I was only in fun."

"I don't like that kind of fun," said Maria, in a tone of dignified
coldness.

"Then I won't joke you again. I guess he can play well enough, if
Abner says so."

Miss Maria Snodgrass allowed herself to be propitiated, more
especially as she herself might have been left without a partner,
had she adhered to her determination and sent Jedidiah adrift.

He took his place in a quadrille, not exactly wishing Philip to
fail, but rather hoping that he would prove a poor performer, in
order that he might have a little triumph over Maria, who had the
bad taste to prefer the young musician's appearance to his.

Meanwhile Philip, following Jonas Webb across the room, had been
introduced to Frank Ingalls, who acted as manager.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Gray," said Ingalls. "I hope we sha'n't
make you work too hard. We are very fond of dancing here."

"I don't get tired very easily," answered Philip. "I hope you will
be satisfied with my playing."

"No fear of that, Mr. Ingalls, I've heerd him play at home, and I
tell you he can do it."

"Thank you, Mr. Webb," said Philip, bowing his acknowledgment of the
compliment.

"I guess we may as well commence, Mr. Gray," said Mr. Ingalls. "The
boys seem to be getting impatient. Here's the order of dances for
the evening."

"Very well, Mr. Ingalls."

The manager raised his voice, and said, "Gentlemen and ladies, you
already know that Beck is sick, and cannot be with us this evening,
as he engaged to do. In his place we have engaged a young musician,
who has already gained a great reputation in his profession--"

Philip was rather surprised to hear this, but it was not for him to
gainsay it.

"Let me introduce to you Mr. Philip Gray."

Philip bowed and smiled, and, putting his violin in position,
immediately commenced a lively air.

In less than five minutes the manager felt perfectly at ease
concerning the young musician. It was clear that Philip understood
his business. Philip himself entered into the spirit of his
performance. His cheek flushed, his eyes sparkled, and he almost
outdid himself.

When the first dance was concluded, there was a murmur of approval
throughout the ballroom. The dancers were both surprised and
pleased.

"He's a smart boy!" said more than one. "He plays as well as Paul
Beck, and Paul's been play-in' for more'n twenty years."

"As well? I never heard Paul Beck play as well as that," said
another.

Among those who were most pleased was Miss Maria Snodgrass.

"What do you think now, Mr. Burbank?" she said, addressing her
partner. "Do you think the boy can play now?"

"Yes, he can play most as well as Paul Beck," admitted Jedidiah.

"Most as well? Paul Beck can't begin to play as well as him,"
returned Maria, who was not educated, and occasionally made slips in
grammar.

"Just as you say, Maria," answered Jedidiah, submissively; "only
don't call me Mr. Burbank."

"Why? Ain't that your name?" asked the young lady demurely.

"Not to you, Maria."

"Well, I won't, if you'll take me up and introduce me to Mr. Gray."

"What for?" asked Jedidiah jealously.

"Because I want to know him."

Mr. Burbank was obliged to obey the request of his partner.

"Oh, Mr. Gray, you play just lovely!" said Miss Snodgrass
rapturously.

"Thank you for the compliment," said Philip, with a low bow.

"I like your playing ever so much better than Paul Beck's."

"You are too kind," said Philip, with another bow.

"Isn't he just lovely, Jedidiah!" said Maria, as she walked away
with her lover.

"Maybe he is--I ain't a judge!" said Mr. Burbank, not very
enthusiastically.

So the evening passed. Philip continued to win the favorable opinion
of the merry party by his animated style of playing.

When at half-past eleven the last dance was announced, he was glad,
for after his long walk, and the efforts of the evening, he felt
tired.

At the conclusion, Mr. Ingalls handed him three dollars, saying:

"Here's your money, Mr. Gray, and we are much obliged to you
besides."

"Thank you!" said our hero, carelessly slipping the money into his
vest pocket.

The manager little imagined that it constituted his entire capital.

"I hope we may have you here again some time, Mr. Gray," continued
the manager.

"Perhaps so," said Philip; "but I am not sure when I shall come this
way again."

"Good night, Mr. Gray," said Miss Snodgrass effusively. "I should be
glad to have you call at our house."

Philip bowed his thanks. He did not notice the dark cloud on the
brow of the young lady's escort.






CHAPTER XXI.

FORTUNE SMILES AGAIN.





Notwithstanding his exertions during the day and evening, Philip
rose the next day at his usual hour, and was in time for the family
breakfast, at seven o'clock.

"Don't you feel tired, Mr. Gray?" asked Mrs. Webb.

"No, thank you. I slept well, and feel quite refreshed."

"He's used to it, Lucy," remarked her husband.

"They look upon me as a professional player," thought Philip.

"I think you and I ought to be more tired, for we were dancing all
the evening," continued the farmer.

When they rose from the table, Philip looked for his hat.

"You're not going to leave us so soon, Mr. Gray?" said Mrs. Webb
hospitably. "We shall be glad to have you stay with us a day or two,
if you can content yourself."

"That's right, Lucy. I'm glad you thought to ask him," said her
husband.

Philip was tempted to accept this kind invitation. He would have
free board, and be at no expense, instead of spending the small sum
he had earned the evening previous; but he reflected that he would
be no nearer solving the problem of how he was to maintain himself,
and while this was in uncertainty, he was naturally anxious.

"I am very much obliged to you both," he said. "If I come this way
again, I shall be glad to call upon you, but now I think I must be
pushing on."

"You'll always be welcome, Mr. Gray," said Mrs. Webb.

Philip thanked her, and soon after set out on his way.

He was more cheerful and hopeful than the day before, for then he
was well nigh penniless, and now he had three dollars in his pocket.

Three dollars was not a very large sum, to be sure, but to one who
had been so near destitution as Philip it seemed very important.

Besides, he had discovered in his violin a source of income,
whereas, hitherto, he had looked upon it merely as a source of
amusement. This made him feel more independent and self-reliant.

He had walked perhaps two miles, when he heard the rattle of wheels
behind him. He did not turn his head, for there was nothing strange
in this sound upon a frequented road. He did turn his head, however,
when he heard a strong voice calling "Hello!"

Turning, he saw that a young man who was driving had slackened the
speed of his horse, and was looking toward him.

Philip halted, and regarded the driver inquiringly.

"You're the young chap that played for a dance last night, ain't
you!" said the newcomer.

"Yes, sir."

"Then you're the one I want to see--jump in, and we'll talk as we
are going along."

Philip had no objection to a ride, and he accepted the invitation
with alacrity. The driver, he noticed, was a young man, of pleasant
manners, though dressed in a coarse suit.

"I drove over to Jonas Webb's to see you, and they told me you had
just gone," he continued. "I thought maybe you'd get up late, but you
was up on time. Are you engaged for this evening?"

Philip began to prick up his ears and become interested. Was it
possible that his good luck was to continue, and that he was to have
an opportunity of earning some more money through his faithful
friend, the violin? He didn't think it well to exhibit the
satisfaction he felt, and answered, in a matter-of-fact tone;

"No, I have no engagement for this evening."

"I'm glad of it," responded the young man, evidently well pleased.
"You see, we had arranged to have a dance over to our place, but Mr.
Beck, being sick, we thought we'd have to give it up. One of my
neighbors was over last evening and heard you play, and he thought
maybe we could secure you."

"I shall be glad to play for you," said Philip politely.

"What are your terms?" asked his companion.

"Three dollars and board and lodging for the time I need to stay."

"That's satisfactory. I'll engage you."

"Is it near here?" asked Philip.

"It's in Conway--only four miles from here. I'll take you right over
now, and you shall stay at my house."

"Thank you, I shall find that very agreeable," said Philip.

"Does Mr. Beck live near you?" asked our hero, a little later.

"Bless you! he lives in our place."

"I suppose his services are in demand?"

"Yes, he is sent for to all the towns around. Fact is, there isn't
anybody but he that can play to suit; but I expect, from what I've
heard, that you can come up to him."

"I couldn't expect to do that," said Philip modestly. "I am very
young yet."

"Folks do say you beat Paul. It seems wonderful, too, considering
how young you are. What might be your age, now?"

"Just sixteen."

"Sho! you don't say so? Why, Paul Beck's over fifty."

"Mr. Beck won't think I'm interfering with him, will he?" asked
Philip.

"Of course, he can't. We'd a had him if he was well. We can't be
expected to put off the party because he's sick. That wouldn't be
reasonable, now, would it?"

"I should think not."

Just then Philip became sensible that a light wagon was approaching,
driven by a young lady.

He did not, however, suppose it was any one he knew till the
carriage stopped, and he heard a voice saying:

"Good morning, Mr. Gray!"

Then he discovered that it was the same young lady who had asked for
an introduction to him the evening previous.

"Good morning, Miss Snodgrass!" he said politely, remembering,
fortunately, the young lady's name.

Meanwhile, Maria and Philip's drivers had also exchanged
salutations, for they were acquainted.

"And where are you carrying Mr. Gray, Mr. Blake?" she asked.

"I'm carrying him over to our place. He's going to play for us this
evening."

"Is there going to be a dance in Conway this evening?" inquired Miss
Snodgrass, with sudden interest.

"Yes. Won't you come over?"

"I will, if I can get Jedidiah to bring me," answered Maria.

"I guess there's no doubt about that," answered Andrew Blake, who
knew very well Jedidiah's devotion to the young lady.

"Oh, I don't know!" answered Maria coquet-tishly. "Perhaps he won't
care for my company."

"If he doesn't, you won't have any trouble in finding another beau."

After a little more conversation, the young lady drove away; but not
without expressing to Philip her delight at having another chance to
hear his beautiful playing.

"She'll be there," said Andrew Blake, as they drove away. "She makes
Jedidiah Burbank do just as she orders him."

"Are they engaged?" asked our hero.

"Yes, I expect so; but there may be some chance of your cutting him
out, if you try. The young lady seems to admire you."

Philip smiled.

"I am only a boy of sixteen," he said. "I am too young to think of
such things. I won't interfere with Mr. Burbank."

"Jedidiah's apt to be jealous," said Blake, "and Maria likes to
torment him. However, she'll end by marrying him, I guess."

In half an hour or thereabouts, Andrew Blake drew up at the gate of
a small but neat house on the main street in Conway. He was a
carpenter, as Philip afterward found, and had built the house
himself. He was probably of about the same age as Jonas Webb, and
like him was married to a young wife.

During the afternoon, Philip, being left pretty much to his own
devices, took a walk in and about the village, ascending a hill at
one side, which afforded him a fine view of that and neighboring
villages.

He was pleasantly received and hospitably entertained at the house
of Mr. Blake, and about quarter of eight started out for the hall,
at which he was to play, in company with his host and hostess.

As they approached the hall, a young man approached them with a
perplexed face.

"What do you think, Andrew?" he said. "Paul Beck's in the hall, as
mad as a hatter, and he vows he'll play himself. He says he was
engaged, and no one shall take his place."

Andrew Blake looked disturbed, and Philip shared in his feeling. Was
he to lose his engagement, after all?






CHAPTER XXII.

RIVAL MUSICIANS.





They entered the hall, which was already well filled, for the young
people of both sexes liked to have as long a time for enjoyment as
possible.

At the head of the hall, in the center of a group, stood a tall,
thin man, dressed in solemn black, with a violin under his arm. His
face, which looked like that of a sick man, was marked by an angry
expression, and this, indeed, was his feeling.

"I suppose that's Mr. Beck?" said Philip.

"Yes, it is," answered Andrew Blake, in evident discomposure. "What
on earth brings him here from a sick-bed, I can't understand. I
heard that he had a fever."

The fact was that Paul Beck was jealous of his reputation as a
musician. It was satisfactory to him to think that he was so
indispensable that no one could take his place. He had sent word to
the committee that he should be unable to play for them, supposing,
of course, that they would be compelled to give up the party. When
intelligence was brought to him during the afternoon that it would
come off, and that another musician had been engaged in his place,
he was not only disturbed, but angry, though, of course, the latter
feeling was wholly unreasonable. He determined that he would be
present, at any rate, no matter how unfit his sickness rendered him
for the evening's work. He resolved to have no rival, and to permit
no one to take his place in his own town.

It did not seem to occur to Mr. Beck that, having formally declined
the engagement on account of sickness, he had no claim whatever on
the committee, and was, in fact, an interloper. It was in vain that
his sister protested against his imprudence. (He was an old bachelor
and his sister kept house for him.) He insisted on dressing himself
and making his way to the hall, where, as was to be expected, his
arrival produced considerable embarrassment.

Paul Beck stood in sullen impatience awaiting the arrival of his
rival.

It so happened that no one had thought to mention to him that it was
a boy. He was prepared to see a full-grown man.

Philip followed Andrew Blake up to the central group.

"Who is it, I say," Mr. Beck was inquiring, "that engaged another
musician to take my place?"

"No one, sir," answered Andrew Blake firmly, for Mr. Beck's
unreasonableness provoked him. "I engaged a musician to play this
evening, but it was not in your place, for you had sent us word that
you could not appear."

"Where is he, I say?" continued Paul Beck sourly.

"Here he is," replied Blake, drawing toward our hero, who felt that
he was placed in an awkward position.

"Why, he's only a baby!" said Beck, surveying our hero
contemptuously.

Philip's cheek flushed, and he, too, began to feel angry.

"He isn't as old as you are, Mr. Beck," said Andrew Blake manfully,
"but you'll find he understands his business."

"I certainly didn't expect you to get a child in my place," said
Paul Beck scornfully.

"I suppose a musicain may know how to play, if he isn't sixty-five,"
said Miss Maria Snod-grass, who had listened indignantly to Mr.
Beck's contemptuous remarks about our hero, whose cause she so
enthusiastically championed.

Poor Mr. Beck! He was sensitive about his age, and nothing could
have cut him more cruelly than this exaggeration of it. He was
really fifty-five, and looked at least sixty, but he fondly
flattered himself that he looked under fifty. "Sixty-five!" he
repeated furiously. "Who says I am sixty-five?"

"Well, you look about that age," said Maria, with malicious
pleasure.

"I shall have to live a good many years before I am sixty," said
Paul Beck angrily. "But that's either here nor there. You engaged me
to play to-night, and I am ready to do it."

Andrew Blake felt the difficulty of his position, but he did not
mean to desert the boy-musician whom he had engaged.

"Mr. Beck," said he, "we shall be glad to have you serve us on
another occasion, but to-night Mr. Gray, here, is engaged. You gave
up the engagement of your own accord, and that ended the matter, so
far as you are concerned."

"Do you refuse to let me play?" demanded Paul Beck, his pale cheek
glowing with anger and mortification.

"You understand why," answered Blake. "This young man is engaged,
and we have no right to break the engagement."

Philip, who had felt the embarrassment of his position, had
meanwhile made up his mind what to do. The three dollars he expected
to earn were important to him, but he didn't care to make trouble.
He did not doubt that his lodging and meals would be given him, and
that would be something. Accordingly, he spoke:

"I have been engaged, it is true," he said, "but if Mr. Beck wants
to play I will resign my engagement and stay and hear him."

"No, no!" exclaimed several--Mr. Blake and Miss Snodgrass being
among them.

"Mr. Gray, you were regularly engaged," said one of the committee.

"That's true," answered Philip, "and," he couldn't help adding, "I
should be justified in insisting upon playing; but since Mr. Beck
seems to feel so bad about it, I will give way to him."

He spoke manfully, and there was no sign of weakness or submission
about him. He asserted his rights, while he expressed his
willingness to surrender them.

There was a little consultation among the committee. They were all
disgusted with the conduct of Paul Beck, and were unwilling that he
should triumph. At the same time, as they might need his services at
some future time, they did not wish wholly to alienate him.

Finally, they announced their decision through Andrew Blake.

"We are not willing to accept Mr. Gray's resignation wholly," he
said, "but we propose that he and Mr. Beck shall divide the
evening's work between them--each to receive half the usual
compensation."

There was considerable applause, for it seemed to be a suitable
compromise, and would enable the company to compare the merits of
the rival musicians.

"I agree," said Philip promptly.

"What do you say, Mr. Beck?" asked Andrew Blake.

Now, while Paul Beck did not like to give up half the honor, he felt
thoroughly convinced that Philip was only a beginner, and that he,
as an experienced player, could easily eclipse him, and thus gain a
triumph which would be very gratifying to his pride.

As for the compensation, to do him justice, he did not much care for
that, being a man of very good means. He played more for glory than
for pay--though he, of course, had no objection to receiving
compensation.

"I have no objections," he said. "If you want to give the boy a
chance to practice a little, I am willing."

Philip understood the sneer, and he secretly determined to do his
best.

The committee was much pleased at the satisfactory conclusion of
what had threatened to be a very troublesome dispute, and it was
arranged, Philip consenting, that Mr. Beck should play first.

The old musician played, in a confident manner, a familiar
dancing-tune, accompanying his playing with various contortions of
the face and twistings of his figure, supposed to express feeling.
It was a fair performance, but mechanical, and did not indicate
anything but very ordinary talent. His time was good, and dancers
always found his playing satisfactory.

When Paul Beck had completed his task, he looked about him
complacently, as if to say, "Let the boy beat that if he can," and
sat down.

Philip had listened to Mr. Beck with attention. He was anxious to
learn how powerful a rival he had to compete with. What he heard did
not alarm him, but rather gave him confidence.






CHAPTER XXIII.

AN HOUR OF TRIUMPH.





When Paul rose and stood before this audience, violin in hand, he
certainly presented quite a strong contrast to his rival.

Paul Beck, as we have already said, was a tall, thin, lantern-jawed
man, clad in solemn black, his face of a sickly, sallow hue.

Philip was of fair height, for his age, with a bright, expressive
face, his hair of a chestnut shade, and looking the very picture of
boyish health. His very appearance made a pleasant impression upon
those present.

"He's a nice-looking boy," thought more than one, "but he looks too
young to know much about the violin."

But when Philip began to play, there was general surprise. In a
dancing-tune there was not much chance for the exhibition of talent,
but his delicate touch and evident perfect mastery of his instrument
were immediately apparent. In comparison, the playing of Paul Beck
seemed wooden and mechanical.

There was a murmur of approbation, and when Philip had finished his
first part of the program, he was saluted by hearty applause, which
he acknowledged by a modest and graceful bow.

Paul Beck's face, as his young rival proceeded in his playing, was
an interesting study. He was very disagreeably surprised. He had
made up his mind that Philip could not play at all, or, at any rate,
would prove to be a mere tyro and bungler, and he could hardly
believe his ears when he heard the sounds which Philip evoked from
his violin.

In spite of his self-conceit, he secretly acknowledged that Philip
even now was his superior, and in time would leave him so far behind
that there could be no comparison between them.

It was not a pleasant discovery for a man who had prided himself for
many years on his superiority as a musician. If it had been a man of
established fame it would have been different, but to be compelled
to yield the palm to an unknown boy, was certainly mortifying.

When he heard the applause that followed Philip's performance, and
remembered that none had been called forth by his own, he determined
that he would not play again that evening. He did not like to risk
the comparison which he was sure would be made between himself and
Philip. So, when Andrew Blake came up to him and asked him to play
for the next dance, he shook his head. "I don't feel well enough,"
he said "I thought I was stronger than I am."

"Do you want the boy to play all the rest of the evening?"

"Yes; he plays very fairly," said Beck, in a patronizing manner,
which implied his own superiority.

"There can be no doubt about that," said Andrew Blake, with
emphasis, for he understood Mr. Beck's meaning, and resented it as
one of the warmest admirers of the boy-musician whom he had engaged.

But Paul Beck would not for the world have revealed his real opinion
of Philip's merits.

"Yes," he continued, "he plays better than I expected. I guess you
can get along with him."

"How shall we arrange about the compensation, Mr. Beck?" asked
Blake. "We ought in that case to give him more than half."

"Oh, you can give him the whole," answered Beck carelessly. "If I
felt well enough to play, I would do my part, but I think it will be
better for me to go home and go to bed."

His decision was communicated to Philip, who felt impelled by
politeness to express his regrets to Mr. Beck.

"I am sorry you don't feel able to play, Mr. Beck," he said
politely.

"Oh, it's of no consequence, as they've got some one to take my
place," returned Beck coldly.

"I should be glad to hear you play again," continued Philip.

Paul Beck nodded slightly, but he felt too much mortified to
reciprocate Philip's friendly advances. Half an hour later he left
the hall.

The dancers by no means regretted the change of arrangement. They
evidently preferred the young musician to his elderly rival. The
only one to express regret was Miss Maria Snodgrass.

"I declare it's a shame Mr. Beck has given up," she said. "I wanted
you to dance with me, Mr. Gray. I am sure if you can dance as well
as you can play, you would get along perfectly lovely. Now you've
got to play, and can't dance at all."

"It isn't leap-year, Maria," said Jedidiah Burbank, in a jealous
tone.

Miss Snodgrass turned upon him angrily:

"You needn't put in your oar, Jedidiah Burbank!" she said. "I guess
I know what I'm about. If it was leap-year fifty times over, I
wouldn't offer myself to you!"

And the young lady tossed her head in a very decided manner.

"Now don't get mad, Maria!" implored Jedidiah, feeling that at the
prompting of jealousy; he had put his foot in it. "I didn't mean
nothing."

"Then you'd better say nothing next time," retorted the young lady.

Meanwhile, Philip acknowledged the young lady's politeness by a
smile and a bow, assuring her that if it had been possible, it would
have given him great pleasure to dance with her.

"If Mr. Burbank will play for me," he said with a glance at the
young man, "I shall be glad to dance."

Miss Snodgrass burst out laughing.

"Jedidiah couldn't play well enough for an old cow to dance by," she
said.

"There ain't any old cows here," said Jedidiah, vexed at being
ridiculed.

"Well, there are some calves, anyway," retorted Maria, laughing
heartily.

Poor Jedidiah! It is to be feared that he will have a hard time when
he becomes the husband of the fair Maria. She will undoubtedly be
the head of the new matrimonial firm.

There was nothing further to mar the harmony of the evening. It had
begun with indications of a storm, but the clouds had vanished, and
when Mr. Beck left the hall, there was nothing left to disturb the
enjoyment of those present.

The favorable opinions expressed when Philip commenced playing were
repeated again and again, as the evening slipped away.

"I tell you, he's a regular genius!" one enthusiastic admirer said
to his companion. "Paul Beck can't hold a candle to him."

"That's so. He's smart, and no mistake."

Poor Mr. Beck! It was fortunate he was unable to hear these
comparisons made. He could not brook a rival near the throne, and
had gone home in low spirits, feeling that he could never again hold
his head as high as he had done.

When the dancing was over, there was a brief conference of the
committee of management, the subject of which was soon made known.

Andrew Blake approached Philip and said:

"Mr. Gray, some of us would like to hear you play something else, if
you are not tired--not a dancing-tune."

"I shall be very happy to comply with your request," answered
Philip.

He spoke sincerely, for he saw that all were pleased with him, and
it is gratifying to be appreciated.

He paused a moment in thought, and then began to play the "Carnival
of Venice," with variations. It had been taught him by his father,
and he had played it so often that his execution was all that could
be desired. The variations were of a showy and popular character,
and very well adapted to impress an audience like that to which he
was playing.

"Beautiful! Beautiful!" exclaimed the young ladies, while their
partners pronounced it "tip-top" and "first-rate," by which they
probably meant very much the same thing.

"Oh, Mr. Gray!" exclaimed Miss Snodgrass fervently. "You play like a
seraphim!"

"Thank you!" said Philip, smiling. "I never heard a seraphim play on
the violin, but I am sure your remark is very complimentary."

"I wish you could play like that, Jedidiah," said Maria.

"I'll learn to play, if you want me to," said Mr. Burbank.

"Thank you! You're very obliging," said Maria; "but I won't trouble
you. You haven't got a genius for it, like Mr. Gray."

The evening was over at length, and again Philip was made the happy
recipient of three dollars. His first week had certainly been
unexpectedly prosperous.

"This is better than staying in the Norton Poorhouse!" he said to
himself.






CHAPTER XXIV.

LORENZO RICCABOCCA.





Philip's reputation as a musician was materially increased by his
second night's performance. To adopt a military term, he had crossed
swords with the veteran fiddler, Paul Beck, and, in the opinion of
all who heard both, had far surpassed him.

This was said openly to Philip by more than one; but he was modest,
and had too much tact and good taste to openly agree with them. This
modesty raised him higher in the opinion of his admirers.

He was invited by the Blakes to prolong his visit, but preferred to
continue on his journey--though his plans were, necessarily, not
clearly defined.

Andrew Blake carried him five miles on his way, and from that point
our hero used the means of locomotion with which nature had supplied
him.

Some six miles farther on there was a manufacturing town of
considerable size, named Wilkesville, and it occurred to him that
this would be a good place at which to pass the night.

Something might turn up for him there. He hardly knew what, but the
two unexpected strokes of luck which he had had thus far encouraged
him to think that a third might come to him.

Philip continued on his way--his small pack of clothing in one hand
and his violin under his arm. Being in no especial hurry--for it was
only the middle of the forenoon--he bethought himself to sit down
and rest at the first convenient and inviting place.

He soon came to a large elm tree, which, with its spreading
branches, offered a pleasant and grateful shade.

He threw himself down and lay back on the greensward, in pleasant
contemplation, when he heard a gentle cough--as of one who wished to
attract attention. Looking up he observed close at hand, a tall man,
dressed in black, with long hair, which fell over his shirt collar
and shoulders.

He wore a broad collar and black satin necktie, and his hair was
parted in the middle. His appearance was certainly peculiar, and
excited our hero's curiosity.

"My young friend," he said, "you have chosen a pleasant
resting-place beneath this umbrageous monarch of the grove." "Yes,
sir," answered Philip, wondering whether the stranger was a poet.

"May I also recline beneath it?" asked the newcomer.

"Certainly, sir. It is large enough to shelter us both."

"Quite true; but I did not wish to intrude upon your meditations."

"My meditations are not of much account," answered Philip, laughing.

"I see you are modest. Am I right in supposing that yonder case
contains a violin?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then you are a musician?"

"A little of one," replied Philip.

"May I ask--excuse my curiosity--if you play professionally?"

"Perhaps he may help me to an engagement," thought our hero, and he
said readily, "I do."

"Indeed!" said the stranger, appearing pleased. "What style of music
do you play?"

"For each of the last two evenings I have played for
dancing-parties."

"Alone?"

"Yes."

"You do not confine yourself to dancing-music?"

"Oh, no! I prefer other kinds; but dancing-tunes seem most in
demand, and I have my living to make." The stranger seemed still
more gratified.

"I am delighted to have met you, Mr.--- Ahem!" he paused, and looked
inquiringly at Philip.

"Gray."

"Mr. Gray, I believe Providence has brought us together. I see you
are surprised."

Philip certainly did look puzzled, as he well might.

"I must explain myself more clearly. I am Professor Lorenzo
Riccabocca, the famous elocutionist and dramatic reader."

Philip bowed.

"Doubtless you have heard of me?" said the professor inquiringly.

"I have never lived in large places," answered Philip, in some
embarrassment, "or no doubt your name would be familiar to me."

"To be sure, that must make a difference. For years," said the
professor, "I have given dramatic readings to crowded houses, and
everywhere my merits have been conceded by the educated and
refined."

Philip could not help wondering how it happened in that case that
the professor should look so seedy. A genius appreciated so highly
ought to have brought in more gold and silver.

Perhaps Professor Riccabocca understood Philip's expressive look,
for he went to to say:

"The public has repaid me richly for the exercise of my talent; but,
alas, my young friend, I must confess that I have no head for
business. I invested my savings unwisely, and ascertained a month
since that I had lost all."

"That was a great pity!" said Philip sympathizingly.

"It was, indeed! It quite unmanned me!" said the professor, wiping
away a tear. "I felt that all ambition was quite gone, and I was mad
and sick. Indeed, only a week since I rose from a sick-bed. But
Lorenzo is himself again!" he exclaimed, striking his breast
energetically. "I will not succumb to Fate. I will again court the
favor of the public, and this time I will take care of the ducats my
admirers bestow upon me."

"I should think that was a good plan," said Philip.

"I will begin at once. Nearby is a town devoted to the mammon of
trade, yet among its busy thousands there must be many that will
appreciate the genius of Lorenzo Riccabocca."

"I hope so," answered Philip politely.

He could not help thinking that the professor was rather
self-conceited, and he hardly thought it in good taste for him to
refer so boastfully to his genius.

"I wish you, Mr. Gray, to assist me in my project," continued the
professor.

"How can I do so, sir?" inquired Philip.

"Let me tell you. I propose that we enter into a professional
partnership, that we give an entertainment partly musical, partly
dramatic. I will draw up a program, including some of my most
humorous recitations and impersonations, while interspersed among
them will be musical selections contributed by yourself. Do you
comprehend?"

"Yes," answered Philip, nodding.

"And what do you think of it?"

"I think well of it," replied the boy-musician.

He did think well of it. It might not draw a large audience, this
mixed entertainment, but it would surely pay something; and it would
interfere with no plans of his own, for, in truth, he had none.

"Then you will cooperate with me?" said the professor.

"Yes, professor."

"Give me your hand!" exclaimed Riccabocca dramatically. "Mr. Gray,
it is a perfect bonanza of an idea. I may tell you, in confidence, I
was always a genius for ideas. Might I ask a favor of you?"

"Certainly, sir."

"Give me a touch of your quality. Let me hear you play."

Philip drew his violin from its case and played for his new
professional partner "The Carnival of Venice," with variations--the
same which had been received with so much favor the evening
previous.

Professor Riccabocca listened attentively, and was evidently
agreeably surprised. He was not a musician, but he saw that Philip
was a much better player than he had anticipated, and this, of
course, was likely to improve their chances of pecuniary success.

"You are a splendid performer," he said enthusiastically. "You shall
come out under my auspices and win fame. I predict for you a
professional triumph."

"Thank you," said Philip, gratified by this tribute from a man of
worldly experience. "I hope you will prove a true prophet."

"And now, Mr. Gray, let us proceed on our way. We must get lodgings
in Wilkesville, and make arrangements for our entertainment. I feel
new courage, now that I have obtained so able a partner. Wilkesville
little knows what is in store for her. We shall go, see, and
conquer!"

An hour later Philip and his new partner entered Wilkesville.






CHAPTER XXV.

A CHANGE OF NAME.





Wilkesville was an inland city, of from fifteen to twenty thousand
inhabitants.

As Philip and the professor passed along the principal street, they
saw various stores of different kinds, with here and there a large,
high, plain-looking structure, which they were told was used for the
manufacture of shoes.

"Wilkesville will give us a large audience," he said, in a tone of
satisfaction.

"I hope so," said our hero.

"Hope so? I know so!" said the professor confidently. "The town is
full of young men, employed in shoe-making. They are fond of
amusement, and they will gladly seize an opportunity of patronizing
a first-class entertainment like ours."

The professor's reasoning seemed good, but logic sometimes fails,
and Philip was not quite so sanguine. He said nothing, however, to
dampen the ardor of his partner.

"Let me see," said the professor, pausing, "yonder stands the
Wilkesville Hotel. We had better put up there."

It was a brick structure of considerable size, and seemed to have
some pretensions to fashion.

"Do you know how much they charge?" asked Philip prudently.

"No; I neither know nor care," answered Professor Riccabocca
loftily.

"But," said Philip, "I haven't much money."

"Nor I," admitted Riccabocca. "But it is absolutely necessary for us
to stop at a first-class place. We must not let the citizens suppose
that we are tramps or vagabonds. They will judge us by our
surroundings."

"There is something in that," said Philip. "But suppose we don't
succeed!"

"Succeed? We must succeed!" said the professor, striking an
attitude. "In the vocabulary of youth, there's no such word as
'fail'! Away with timid caution! Our watchword be success!"

"Of course, you have much more experience than I," said Philip.

"Certainly I have! We must keep up appearances. Be guided by me, and
all will come right."

Philip reflected that they could not very well make less than their
expenses, and accordingly he acceded to the professor's plans. They
entered the hotel, and Professor Riccabocca, assuming a dignified,
important step, walked up to the office. "Sir," said he, to the
clerk, "my companion and myself would like an apartment, one
eligibly located, and of ample size."

"You can be accommodated, sir," answered the young man politely.
"Will you enter your names?"

Opening the hotel register, the elocutionist, with various
flourishes, entered, this name: "Professor Lorenzo Riccabocca,
Elocutionist and Dramatic Reader."

"Shall I enter your name?" he asked of Philip.

"If you please."

This was the way Professor Riccabocca complied with his request:
"Philip de Gray, the Wonderful Boy-musician."

He turned the book, so that the clerk could see the entries.

"We propose to give an entertainment in Wilkesville," he said.

"I am glad to hear it," said the clerk politely.

"After dinner I will consult you as to what steps to take. Is there
anything in the way of amusement going on in town this evening?"

"Yes, there is a concert, chiefly of home-talent, in Music Hall.
There is nothing announced for to-morrow evening."

"Then we will fix upon to-morrow evening. It will give us more time
to get out hand-bills, etc. Is there a printing-office in town?"

"Oh, yes, sir. We have a daily paper."

"Is the office near at hand?"

"Yes, sir. It is on the corner of the next street."

"That will do for the present. We will go up to our apartment. Will
dinner be ready soon?"

"In half an hour."

Here the servant made his appearance, and the professor, with a wave
of his hand, said:

"Lead on, Mr. de Gray! I will follow."






CHAPTER XXVI.

A PROMISING PLAN.





They were shown into a front room, of good size, containing two
beds. The servant handed them the key, and left them.

"This looks very comfortable, Mr. de Gray," said the professor,
rubbing his hands with satisfaction.

"Why do you call me Mr. de Gray?" asked Philip, thinking he had been
misunderstood. "It is plain Gray, without any de."

"I am only using your professional name," answered the professor.
"Don't you know people will think a great deal more of you if they
suppose you to be a foreigner?"

Philip laughed.

"Is Lorenzo Riccabocca your true or professional name, professor?"
he asked.

"Professional, of course. My real name--I impart it to you in the
strictest confidence--is Lemuel Jones. Think of it. How would that
look on a poster?"

"It would not be so impressive as the other."

"Of course not; and the public need to be impressed. I thank thee
for that word, Mr. de Gray. By the way, it's rather a pity I didn't
give you a Spanish or Italian name."

"But I can't speak either language. It would be seen through at
once."

"People wouldn't think of asking. You'd be safe enough. They will
generally swallow all you choose to say."

They went down to dinner presently, and the professor--Philip could
not help thinking--ate as if he were half-starved. He explained
afterward that elocutionary effort taxes the strength severely, and
makes hearty eating a necessity.

After dinner was over the professor said:

"Are you content, Mr. de Gray, to leave me to make the necessary
arrangements?"

"I should prefer that you would," said Philip, and he spoke
sincerely. "Probably you understand much better than I what needs to
be done."

" 'Tis well! Your confidence is well placed," said the professor,
with a wave of his hand. "Shall you remain in the hotel?"

"No, I think I will walk about the town and see a little of it. I
have never been here before."

Philip took a walk through the principal streets, surveying with
curiosity the principal building's, for, though there was nothing
particularly remarkable about them, he was a young traveler, to whom
everything was new. He could not help thinking of his late home, and
in particular of Frank Dunbar, his special friend, and he resolved
during the afternoon to write a letter to Frank, apprising him of
his luck thus far. He knew that Frank would feel anxious about him,
and would be delighted to hear of his success as a musician.

He went into a book-store and bought a sheet of paper and an
envelope.

He had just completed his letter, when his partner entered the
reading-room of the hotel with a brisk step.

"Mr. de Gray," he said, "I have made all necessary arrangements. I
have hired the hall for to-morrow evening--five dollars--ordered
some tickets and posters at the printing-office, and secured a
first-class notice in to-morrow morning's paper. Everybody
in Wilkesville will know before to-morrow night that they will have
the opportunity of attending a first-class performance at the Music
Hall."

"It seems to me the necessary expenses are considerable," said
Philip uneasily.

"Of course they are; but what does that matter?"

"What is to be the price of tickets?"

"General admission, twenty-five cents; reserved seats, fifty cents,
and children under twelve, fifteen cents. How does that strike you!"

"Will anyone be willing to pay fifty cents to hear us?" asked
Philip.

"Fifty cents! It will be richly worth a dollar!" said the professor
loftily.

"I suppose he knows best," thought Philip. "I hope all will come out
right. If it does we can try the combination in other places."






CHAPTER XXVII.

UNEXPECTED HONORS.





The next morning at breakfast, Professor Riccabocca handed Philip a
copy of the Wilkesville Daily Bulletin. Pointing to a paragraph on
the editorial page, he said, in a tone of pride and satisfaction:

"Read that, Mr. de Gray."

It ran thus:

"We congratulate the citizens of Wilkesville on the remarkable
entertainment which they will have an opportunity of enjoying this
evening at the Music Hall. Professor Lorenzo Riccabocca, whose fame
as an elocutionist and dramatic reader has made his name a household
word throughout Europe and America, will give some of his choice
recitals and personations, assisted by Philip de Gray, the wonderful
boy-musician, whose talent as a violin-player has been greeted with
rapturous applause in all parts of the United States. It is
universally acknowledged that no one of his age has ever equaled
him. He, as well as Professor Riccabocca, will give but a limited
series of entertainments in this country, having received flattering
inducements to cross the Atlantic, and appear professionally in
London, Paris, and the chief cities of the Continent. Fifty cents is
the pitiful sum for which our citizens will have it put in their
power to hear this wonderful combination of talent. This secures a
reserved seat."

Philip read this notice with increasing amazement.

"What do you think of that, Mr. de Gray?" asked the professor
gleefully. "Won't that make Wilkesville open its eyes, eh?"

"It has made me open my eyes, professor," said Philip.

"Ha, ha!" said the professor, appearing amused.

"How soon are we to sail for Europe?" asked Philip, smiling.

"When Queen Victoria sends our passage-money," answered Riccabocca,
laughing.

"I see that your name is a household word in Europe. Were you ever
there?"

"Never."

"Then how can that be?"

"Mr. de Gray, your performances have been greeted with applause in
all parts of the United States. How do you explain that?"

"I don't pretend to explain it. I wasn't aware that my name had ever
been heard of a hundred miles from here."

"It has not, but it will be. I have only been predicting a little.
The paragraph isn't true now, but it will be some time, if we live
and prosper."

"But I don't like to be looked upon as a humbug, professor," said
Philip uneasily.

"You won't be. You are really a fine player, or I wouldn't consent
to appear with you. The name of Riccabocca, Mr. de Gray, I may
truthfully say, is well known. I have appeared in the leading cities
of America. They were particularly enthusiastic in Chicago," he
added pensively. "I wish I could find a paragraph from one of their
leading papers, comparing my rendering of the soliloquy in 'Hamlet'
to Edwin Booth's, rather to the disadvantage of that tragedian."

"I would like to read the notice," said Philip, who had very strong
doubts as to whether such a paragraph had ever appeared in print.

"You shall see it. It will turn up somewhere. I laid it aside
carefully, for I confess, Mr. de Gray, it gratified me much. I have
only one thing to regret: I should myself have gone on the stage,
and essayed leading tragic roles. It may not be too late now. What
do you think?"

"I can tell better after I have heard you, professor," answered
Philip.

"True, you can. Mr. de Gray," continued the professor, lowering his
voice, "notice how much attention we are receiving from the guests
at the tables. They have doubtless read the notice of our evening
entertainment."

Philip looked round the room, which was of good size, and contained
some thirty or more guests, and he saw that the professor was right.

He met several curious glances, some fair ladies expressing interest
as well as curiosity, and his face flushed.

"Gratifying, isn't it?" said the professor, smiling.

"No, I don't think it is," answered our hero.

"Why not?" demanded Professor Riccabocca, appearing amazed.

"If all were true, it might be," replied Philip. "As it is, I feel
like a humbug."

"Humbug pays in this world," said the professor cheerfully. "By the
way, there's another little paragraph to which I will call your
attention."

Philip read this additional item:

"We understand that Professor Riecabocca and Mr. Philip de Gray have
received a cable despatch from the Prince of Wales, inviting them to
instruct his sons in elocution and music, at a very liberal salary.
They have this proposal under consideration, though they are
naturally rather reluctant to give up the plaudits of the public,
even for so honorable a position."

"Professor Riccabocca," said Philip, considerably annoyed by this
audacious invention, "you ought to have consulted me before
publishing such a falsehood as this."

"Falsehood, Mr. de Gray? Really I'm shocked! Gentlemen don't use
such words, or make such charges."

"You don't mean to say it's true that we have received any such
telegram?"

"No; of course not."

"Then why didn't I use the right word?"

"It's an innocent little fiction, my young friend--a fiction that
will do no one any harm, but will cause us to be regarded with
extraordinary interest."

Here the thought occurred to Philip that he, the future instructor
of British royalty, had only just escaped from a poorhouse, and it
seemed to him so droll that he burst out laughing.

"Why do you laugh, Mr. de Gray?" asked the professor, a little
suspiciously.

"I was thinking of something amusing," said Philip.

"Well, well! We shall have cause to laugh when we play this evening
to a crowded house."

"I hope so. But, professor, if we keep together, you mustn't print
any more such paragraphs about me. Of course, I am not responsible
for what you say about yourself."

"Oh, it will be all right!" said Riccabocca. "What are you going to
do with yourself?"

"I shall practice a little in my room, for I want to play well
to-night. When I get tired I shall take a walk."

"Very wise--very judicious. I don't need to do it, being, as I may
say, a veteran reader. I wouldn't rehearse if I were to play this
evening before the president and all the distinguished men of the
nation."

"I don't feel so confident of myself," said Philip.

"No, of course not. By the way, can you lend me fifty cents, Mr. de
Gray?"

"Certainly."

"I don't want to break a ten."

Professor Riccabocca didn't mention that the only ten he had was a
ten-cent piece.

Slipping Philip's half-dollar into his vest pocket, he said
carelessly:

"We'll take this into the account when we divide the proceeds of the
entertainment."

"Very well," said Philip.

He went up to his room and played for an hour or more, rehearsing
the different pieces he had selected for the evening, and then,
feeling the need of a little fresh air, he took a walk.

In different parts of the town he saw posters, on which his name was
printed in large letters.

"It seems almost like a joke!" he said to himself.

Just then he heard his name called, and, looking up, he recognized a
young fellow, of sixteen or thereabouts, who had formerly lived in
Norton. It seemed pleasant to see a familiar face.

"Why, Morris Lovett," he exclaimed "I didn't know you were here!"

"Yes; I'm clerk in a store. Are you the one that is going to give an
entertainment tonight?"

"Yes," answered Philip, smiling.

"I didn't know you were such a great player," said Morris, regarding
our hero with new respect.

He had read the morning paper.

"Nor I," said Philip, laughing.

"Are you going to Europe soon?"

"It isn't decided yet!" Philip answered, laughing.

"I wish I had your chance."

"Come and hear me this evening, at any rate," said Philip. "Call at
the hotel, at six o'clock, and I'll give you a ticket."

"I'll be sure to come," said Morris, well pleased.






CHAPTER XXVIII.

A TRIUMPHANT SUCCESS.





Philip took another walk in the afternoon, and was rather amused to
see how much attention he received. When he drew near the hotel he
was stared at by several gaping youngsters, who apparently were
stationed there for no other purpose. He overheard their whispers:

"That's him! That's Philip de Gray, the wonderful fiddler!"

"I never suspected, when I lived at Norton, that I was so much of a
curiosity," he said to himself. "I wish I knew what they'll say
about me to-morrow."

At six o'clock Morris Lovett called and received his ticket.

"You'll have a big house to-night, Philip," he said. "I know a lot
of fellows that are going."

"I am glad to hear it," said Philip, well pleased, for he concluded
that if such were the case his purse would be considerably heavier
the next day.

"It's strange how quick you've come up;" said Morris. "I never
expected you'd be so famous.

"Nor I," said Philip, laughing.

"I'd give anything if I could have my name posted round like yours."

"Perhaps you will have, some time."

"Oh, no! I couldn't play more'n a pig," said Morris decidedly. "I'll
have to be a clerk, and stick to business."

"You'll make more money in the end that way, Morris, even if your
name isn't printed in capitals."

They retired into a small room adjoining the stage, to prepare for
their appearance.

The professor rubbed his hands in glee.

"Did you see what a house we have, Mr. de Gray?"

"Yes, professor."

"I think there'll be a hundred dollars over and above expenses."

"That will be splendid!" said Philip, naturally elated.

"The firm of Riccaboeca and De Gray is starting swimmingly."

"So it is. I hope it will continue so."

"Here is the program, Mr. de Gray. You will observe that I appear
first, in my famous soliloquy. You will follow, with the 'Carnival
of Venice.' Do you feel agitated?"

"Oh, no. I am so used to playing that I shall not feel at all
bashful."

"That is well."

"I would like to be on the stage, professor, to hear you."

"Certainly. I have anticipated your desire, and provided an extra
chair."

The time came, and Professor Riccabocca stepped upon the stage, his
manner full of dignity, and advanced to the desk. Philip took a
chair a little to the rear.

Their entrance was greeted by hearty applause. The professor made a
stately bow, and a brief introductory speech, in which he said
several things about Philip and himself which rather astonished our
hero. Then he began to recite the soliloquy.

Probably it was never before so amazingly recited. Professor
Riccabocca's gestures, facial contortions, and inflections were very
remarkable. Philip almost suspected that he was essaying a burlesque
role.

The mature portion of the audience were evidently puzzled, but the
small boys were delighted, and with some of the young men, stamped
vigorously at the close.

Professor Riccabocea bowed modestly, and said:

"Gentlemen and ladies, you will now have the pleasure of listening
to the young and talented Philip de Gray, the wonderful
boy-musician, in his unrivaled rendition of the 'Carnival of
Venice.'"

Philip rose, coloring a little with shame a I this high-flown
introduction, and came forward.

All applauded heartily, for sympathy is always felt for a young
performer, especially when he has a manly bearing and an attractive
face, such as our hero possessed.

Philip was determined to do his best. Indeed, after being advertised
and announced as a boy wonder, he felt that he could not do
otherwise.

He commenced, and soon lost himself in the music he loved so well,
so that before he had half finished he had quite forgotten his
audience, and half started at the boisterous applause which
followed. He bowed his acknowledgments, but found this would not do.

He was forced to play it a second time, greatly to the apparent
satisfaction of the audience. It was clear that, whatever might be
thought of Professor Riccabocea's recitation, the young violinist
had not disappointed his audience.

Philip could see, in a seat near the stage, the beaming face of his
friend Morris Lovett, who was delighted at the success of his old
acquaintance, and anticipated the reflected glory which he received,
from its being known that he was a friend of the wonderful young
musician.

Professor Riccabocca came forward again, and recited a poem called
"The Maniac," each stanza ending with the line: "I am not mad, but
soon shall be."

He stamped, raved, tore his hair, and made altogether a very
grotesque appearance.

Philip could hardly forbear laughing, and some of the boys in the
front seats didn't restrain themselves, Some of the older people
wondered how such a man should be selected by the Prince of Wales to
instruct his sons in elocution--not suspecting that the newspaper
paragraph making mention of this was only a daring invention of the
eminent professor.

Next came another musical selection by Philip, which was as
cordially received as the first.

I do not propose to weary the reader by a recital of the program and
a detailed account of each performance. It is enough to say that
Professor Riccabocca excited some amusement, but was only tolerated
for the sake of Philip's playing.

Naturally, our hero was better received on account of his youth, but
had he been twice as old his playing would have given satisfaction
and pleasure.

So passed an hour and a half, and the musical entertainment was
over. Philip felt that he had reason to be satisfied. Highly as he
had been heralded, no one appeared to feel disappointed by his part
of the performance.

"Mr. de Gray," said the professor, when they reached the hotel, "you
did splendidly. We have made a complete success."

"It is very gratifying," said Philip.

"I felt sure that the public would appreciate us. I think I managed
everything shrewdly."

"How much was paid in at the door?" asked Philip, who naturally felt
interested in this phase of success.

"One hundred and forty-five dollars and a half!" answered the
professor.

Philip's eyes sparkled.

"And how much will that be over and above expenses?" he asked.

"My dear Mr. de Gray, we will settle all bills, and make a fair and
equitable division, in the morning. I think there will be a little
more than fifty dollars to come to each of us."

"Fifty dollars for one evening's work!" repeated Philip, his eyes
sparkling.

"Oh, I have done much better than that," said the professor. "I
remember once at St. Louis I made for myself alone one hundred and
eighty dollars net, and in Chicago a little more."

"I didn't think it was such a money-making business," said Philip,
elated.

"Yes, Mr. de Gray, the American people are willing to recognize
talent, when it is genuine. You are on the threshold of a great
career, my dear young friend."

"And only a week since I was in the Norton Poorhouse," thought
Philip. "It is certainly a case of romance in real life."

The two went to bed soon, being fatigued by their exertions. The
apartment was large, and contained two beds, a larger and smaller
one. The latter was occupied by our hero.

When he awoke in the morning, the sun was shining brightly into the
room. Philip looked toward the opposite bed. It was empty.

"Professor Riccabocca must have got up early," he thought. "Probably
he did not wish to wake me."

He dressed and went downstairs.

"Where is the professor?" he asked of the clerk.

"He started away two hours since--said he was going to take a walk.
Went away without his breakfast, too. He must be fond of walking."

Philip turned pale. He was disturbed by a terrible suspicion. Had
the professor gone off for good, carrying all the money with him?






CHAPTER XXIX.

BESET BY CREDITORS.





Philip was still a boy, and though he had discovered that the
professor was something of a humbug, and a good deal of a braggart,
it had not for a moment occurred to him that he would prove
dishonest. Even now he did not want to believe it, though he was
nervously apprehensive that it might prove true.

"I will take my breakfast," he said, as coolly as was possible, "and
the professor will probably join me before I am through."

The clerk and the landlord thought otherwise. They were pretty well
convinced that Riccabocca was dishonest, and quietly sent for those
to whom the "combination" was indebted: namely, the printer and
publisher of the Daily Bulletin, the agent of the music-hall, and
the bill-sticker who had posted notices of the entertainment. These
parties arrived while Philip was at breakfast.

"Gentlemen," said the landlord, "the boy is at breakfast. I think he
is all right, but I don't know. The professor, I fear, is a
swindle."

"The boy is liable for our debts," said the agent. "He belongs to
the combination."

"I am afraid he is a victim as well as you," said the landlord. "He
seemed surprised to hear that the professor had gone out."

"It may all be put on. Perhaps he is in the plot, and is to meet the
old fraud at some place fixed upon, and divide the booty," suggested
the agent.

"The boy looks honest," said the landlord. "I like his appearance.
We will see what he has to say."

So when Philip had finished his breakfast he was summoned to the
parlor, where he met the creditors of the combination.

"These gentlemen," said the landlord, "have bills against you and
the professor. It makes no difference whether they receive pay from
you or him."

Poor Philip's heart sank within him.

"I was hoping Professor Riccabocca had settled your bills," he said.
"Please show them to me."

This was done with alacrity.

Philip found that they owed five dollars for the hall, five dollars
for advertising and printing, and one dollar for bill-posting--
eleven dollars in all.

"Mr. Gates," said our hero uneasily, to the landlord, "did Professor
Riccabocca say anything about coming back when he went out this
morning?"

"He told my clerk he would be back to breakfast," said the landlord;
adding, with a shrug of the shoulders: "That was two hours and a
half ago. He can't be very hungry."

"He didn't pay his bill, I suppose?"

"No, of course not. He had not given up his room."

Philip became more and more uneasy.

"Didn't you know anything about his going out?" asked the landlord.

"No, sir. I was fast asleep."

"Is the professor in the habit of taking long morning walks?"

"I don't know."

"That is strange, since you travel together," remarked the
publisher.

"I never saw him till day before yesterday," said Philip.

The creditors looked at each other significantly. They began to
suspect that Philip also was a victim.

"Do you know how much money was received for tickets last evening?"

"About a hundred and fifty dollars."

"How much of this were you to receive?"

"Half of what was left after the bills were paid."

"Have you received it?" asked the agent.

"Not a cent," answered Philip.

"What do you think about the situation?"

"I think that Professor Riccabocca has swindled us all," answered
Philip promptly.

"Our bills ought to be paid," said the agent, who was rather a hard
man in his dealings.

"I agree with you," said Philip. "I wish I were able to pay them,
but I have only six dollars in my possession."

"That will pay me, and leave a dollar over," suggested the agent.

"If it comes to that," said the printer, "I claim that I ought to be
paid first."

"I am a poor man," said the bill-sticker. "I need my money."

Poor Philip was very much disconcerted. It was a new thing for him
to owe money which he could not repay.

"Gentlemen," he said, "I have myself been cheated out of fifty
dollars, at least--my share of the profits. I wish I could pay you
all. I cannot do so now. Whenever I can I will certainly do it."

"You can pay us a part with the money you have," said the agent.

"I owe Mr. Gates for nearly two days' board," he said. "That is my
own affair, and I must pay him first."

"I don't see why he should be preferred to me," grumbled the agent;
then, with a sudden, happy thought, as he termed it, he said: "I
will tell you how you can pay us all."

"How?" asked Philip.

"You have a violin. You can sell that for enough to pay our bills."

Poor Philip! His violin was his dependence. Besides the natural
attachment he felt for it, he relied upon it to secure him a living,
and the thought of parting with it was bitter.

"Gentlemen," he said, "if you take my violin, I have no way of
making a living. If you will consider that I, too, am a victim of
this man, I think you will not wish to inflict such an injury upon
me."

"I do not, for one," said the publisher. "I am not a rich man, and I
need all the money that is due me, but I wouldn't deprive the boy of
his violin."

"Nor I," said the bill-sticker.

"That's all very fine," said the agent; "but I am not so soft as you
two. Who knows but the boy is in league with the professor?"

"I know it!" said the landlord stoutly. "The boy is all right, or I
am no judge of human nature."

"Thank you, Mr. Gates," said Philip, extending his hand to his
generous defender.

"Do you expect we will let you off without paying anything?"
demanded the agent harshly.

"If I live, sir, you shall lose nothing by me," said Philip.

"That won't do!" said the man coarsely. "I insist upon the fiddle
being sold. I'll give five dollars for it, and call it square."

"Mr. Gunn," said the landlord, in a tone of disgust, "since you are
disposed to persecute this boy, I will myself pay your bill, and
trust to him to repay me when he can."

"But, Mr. Gates--" said Philip.

"I accept!" said the agent, with alacrity.

"Receipt your bill," said the landlord.

Mr. Gunn did so, and received a five-dollar bill in return.

"Now sir," said the landlord coldly, "if you have no further
business here, we can dispense with your company."

"It strikes me you are rather hard on a man because he wants to be
paid his honest dues!" whined Gunn, rather uncomfortably.

"We understand you, sir," said the landlord. "We have not forgotten
how you turned a poor family into the street, in the dead of winter,
because they could not pay their rent."

"Could I afford to give them house-room?" inquired Gunn.

"Perhaps not. At any rate, I don't feel inclined to give you
house-room any longer."

Mr. Gunn slunk out of the room, under the impression that his
company was no longer desired.

"Mr. Gray," said the publisher, "I hope you don't class me with the
man who has just gone out. I would sooner never be paid than deprive
you of your violin. Let the account stand, and if you are ever able
to pay me half of my bill--your share--I shall be glad to receive
it."

"Thank you, sir!" said Philip, "You shall not repent your confidence
in me."

"I say ditto to my friend, the publisher," said the bill-poster.

"Wait a moment, gentlemen," said Philip. "There is a bare
possibility that I can do something for you."

For the first time since he left Norton he thought of the letter
which he was not to open till he was fifty miles from Norton.

"Mr. Gates," he said, "can you tell me how far Norton is from here?"

"About sixty miles," answered the landlord in surprise.

"Then it's all right."






CHAPTER XXX.

A TIMELY GIFT.





The reader has not forgotten that Farmer Lovett, when Philip refused
to accept any compensation for assisting to frustrate the attempt at
burglary, handed him a sealed envelope, which he requested him not
to open till he was fifty miles away from Norton.

Philip had carried this about in his pocket ever since. He had
thought of it as likely to contain some good advice at the time; but
it had since occurred to him that the farmer had not had time to
write down anything in that line.

He was disposed to think that the mysterious envelope might contain
a five-dollar bill, as a slight acknowledgment of his services.

Though Philip had declined receiving any payment, it did seem to him
now that this amount of money would relieve him from considerable
embarrassment. He therefore drew a penknife from his pocket and cut
open the envelope.

What was his amazement when he drew out three bills--two twenties
and a ten--fifty dollars in all! There was a slip of paper, on which
was written, in pencil:

"Don't hesitate to use this money, if you need it, as you doubtless
will. I can spare it as well as not, and shall be glad if it proves
of use to one who has done me a great service. JOHN LOVETT."

"What's that!" asked the landlord, regarding Philip with interest.

"Some money which I did not know I possessed," answered Philip.

"How much is there?"

"Fifty dollars."

"And you didn't know you had it?" asked the publisher--rather
incredulously, it must be owned.

"No, sir; I was told not to open this envelope till I was fifty
miles away from where it was given me. Of course, Mr. Gates, I am
now able to pay all my bills, and to repay you for what you handed
Mr. Gunn."

"I am pleased with your good fortune," said the landlord cordially.

"Thank you, sir."

"But I am sorry your knavish partner has cheated you out of so much
money."

"I shall make him pay it if I can," said Philip resolutely.

"I approve your pluck, and I wish you success."

"He owes you money, too, Mr. Gates. Give me the bill, and I will do
my best to collect it."

"If you collect it, you may have it," said Gates. "I don't care much
for the money, but I should like to have the scamp compelled to fork
it over."

"I wish I knew where he was likely to be," said Philip.

"He may go to Knoxville," suggested the publisher.

"How far is that?"

"Ten miles."

"What makes you think he will go to Knoxville?" asked the landlord.

"He may think of giving a performance there. It is a pretty large
place."

"But wouldn't he be afraid to do it, after the pranks he has played
here?"

"Perhaps so. At any rate, he is very likely to go there."

"I will go there and risk it," said Philip. "He needn't think he is
going to get off so easily, even if it is only a boy he has
cheated."

"That's the talk, Mr. Gray!" said the landlord. "How are you going?"
he asked, a minute later.

"I can walk ten miles well enough," answered Philip.

He had considerable money now, but he reflected that he should
probably need it all, especially if he did not succeed in making the
professor refund, and decided that it would be well to continue to
practice economy.

"I have no doubt you can," said the landlord, but it will be better
not to let the professor get too much the start of you. I will
myself have a horse harnessed, and take you most of the distance in
my buggy."

"But, Mr. Gates, won't it be putting you to a great deal of
trouble?"

"Not at all. I shall enjoy a ride this morning, and the road to
Knoxville is a very pleasant one."

"Let me pay something for the ride, then."

"Not a cent. You will need all your money, and I can carry you just
as well as not," said the landlord heartily.

"I am very fortunate in such a kind friend," said Philip gratefully.

"Oh, it isn't worth talking about! Here, Jim, go out and harness the
horse directly."

When the horse was brought round, Philip was all ready, and jumped
in.

"Would you like to drive, Mr. Gray?" asked the landlord.

"Yes," answered Philip, with alacrity.

"Take the lines, then," said the landlord.

Most boys of Philip's age are fond of driving, and our hero was no
exception to the rule, as the landlord supposed.

"You'll promise not to upset me," said Mr. Gates, smiling. "I am
getting stout, and the consequences might be serious."

"Oh, I am used to driving," said Philip, "and I will take care not
to tip over."

The horse was a good one, and to Philip's satisfaction, went over
the road in good style.

Philip enjoyed driving, but, of course, his mind could not help
dwelling on the special object of his journey.

"I hope we are on the right track," he said. "I shouldn't like to
miss the professor."

"You will soon know, at any rate," said Gates. "It seems to me," he
continued, "that Riccabocca made a great mistake in running off with
that money."

"He thought it would be safe to cheat a boy."

"Yes; but admitting all that, you two were likely to make money. In
Wilkesville your profits were a hundred dollars in one evening. Half
of that belonged to the professor, at any rate. He has lost his
partner, and gained only fifty dollars, which would not begin to pay
him for your loss."

"Perhaps he thought he would draw as well alone."

"Then he is very much mistaken. To tell the plain truth, our people
thought very little of his share of the performance. I saw some of
them laughing when he was ranting away. It was you they enjoyed
hearing."

"I am glad of that," said Philip, gratified.

"There's no humbug about your playing. You understand it. It was you
that saved the credit of the evening, and sent people away well
satisfied."

"I am glad of that, at any rate, even if I didn't get a cent for my
playing," said Philip, well pleased.

"The money's the practical part of it," said the landlord. "Of
course, I am glad when travelers like my hotel, but if they should
run off without paying, like the professor, I shouldn't enjoy it so
much."

"No, I suppose not," said Philip, with a laugh.

They had ridden some seven miles, and were, therefore, only three
miles from Knoxville, without the slightest intimation as to whether
or not they were on the right track.

To be sure, they had not expected to obtain any clue so soon, but it
would have been very satisfactory, of course, to obtain one.

A little farther on they saw approaching a buggy similar to their
own, driven by a man of middle age. It turned out to be an
acquaintance of the landlord's, and the two stopped to speak.

"Going to Knoxville on business, Mr. Gates?" asked the newcomer.

"Well, not exactly. I am driving this young man over. By the way,
have you seen anything of a tall man, with long, black hair, dressed
in black?"

"Yes. Do you want to see him?"

"This young man has some business with him. Where did you see him?"

"He arrived at our hotel about an hour since, I calculate."

Philip's heart bounded with satisfaction at this important news.

"Did he put up there?"

"Yes. I believe he is going to give a reading this evening."

"Thank you!"

"The professor must be a fool!" said the landlord, as they drove
away.

"I begin to think so myself," replied Philip.

"That's all in our favor, however. We shall get back that money
yet."

The horse was put to his speed, and in fifteen minutes they reached
Knoxville.






CHAPTER XXXI.

THE PROFESSOR'S FLIGHT.





Professor Lorenzo Riccabocca was not a wise man. It would have been
much more to his interest to deal honestly with Philip, paying his
share of the profits of the first performance, and retaining his
services as associate and partner.

But the professor was dazzled by the money, and unwilling to give it
up. Moreover, he had the vanity to think that he would draw nearly
as well alone, thus retaining in his own hands the entire proceeds
of any entertainments he might give.

When he met Philip on the road he was well-nigh penniless. Now,
including the sum of which he had defrauded our hero and his
creditors in Wilkesville, he had one hundred and fifty dollars.

When the professor went to bed, he had not formed the plan of
deserting Philip; but, on awaking in the morning, it flashed upon
him as an excellent step which would put money in his pocket.

He accordingly rose, dressed himself quietly, and, with one cautious
look at Philip--who was fast asleep--descended the stairs to the
office.

Only the bookkeeper was in the office.

"You are stirring early, professor," he said.

"Yes," answered Riccabocca, "I generally take a morning walk, to get
an appetite for breakfast."

"My appetite comes without the walk," said the bookkeeper, smiling.

"If Mr. de Gray comes downstairs, please tell him I will be back
soon," said Riccabocca.

The bookkeeper readily promised to do this, not having the slightest
suspicion that the distinguished professor was about to take French
leave.

When Professor Riccabocca had walked half a mile he began to feel
faint. His appetite had come.

"I wish I had stopped to breakfast," he reflected. "I don't believe
De Gray will be down for an hour or two."

It was too late to go back and repair his mistake. That would spoil
all. He saw across the street a baker's shop, just opening for the
day, and this gave him an idea.

He entered, bought some rolls, and obtained a glass of milk, and,
fortified with these, he resumed his journey.

He had walked three miles, when he was over-taken by a farm wagon,
which was going his way.

He hailed the driver--a young man of nineteen or
thereabouts--ascertained that he was driving to Knoxville, and, for
a small sum, secured passage there.

This brings us to the point of time when Philip and Mr. Gates drove
up to the hotel at Knoxville.

"I can see the professor," said Philip, in eager excitement, when
they had come within a few rods of the inn.

"Where is he?"

"He is in the office, sitting with his back to the front window. I
wonder what he will have to say for himself?"

"So do I," said the landlord curiously.

"Shall we go in together?" questioned Philip.

"No; let us surprise him a little. I will drive around to the sheds
back of the hotel, and fasten my horse. Then we will go round to the
front, and you can go in, while I stand outside, ready to appear a
little later."

Philip thought this a good plan. He enjoyed the prospect of
confronting the rogue who had taken advantage of his inexperience,
and attempted such a bold scheme of fraud. He didn't feel in the
least nervous, or afraid to encounter the professor, though
Riccabocca was a man and he but a boy. When all was ready, Philip
entered through the front door, which was open, and, turning into
the office, stood before the astonished professor.

The latter started in dismay at the sight of our hero. He thought he
might be quietly eating breakfast ten miles away, unsuspiciously
waiting for his return. Was his brilliant scheme to fail? He quickly
took his resolution--a foolish one. He would pretend not to know
Philip.

"Well, Professor Riccabocca," Philip said, in a sarcastic tone, "you
took rather a long walk this morning."

The professor looked at him vacantly.

"Were you addressing me?" he inquired.

"Yes, sir," answered Philip, justly provoked.

"I haven't the pleasure of your acquaintance, young man."

"I wish I hadn't the pleasure of yours," retorted Philip.

"Do you come here to insult me?" demanded Riccabocca, frowning.

"I came here to demand my share of the money received for the
entertainment last evening, as well as the money paid for the hall,
the printer, and bill-poster."

"You must be crazy!" said Riccabocca, shrugging his shoulders. "I
don't know you. I don't owe you any money."

"Do you mean to say we didn't give an entertainment together last
evening at Wilkesville?" asked Philip, rather taken aback by the
man's sublime impudence.

"My young friend, you have been dreaming. Prove what you say and I
will admit your claim."

Up to this point those present, deceived by the professor's
coolness, really supposed him to be in the right. That was what
Riccabocca anticipated, and hoped to get off before the discovery of
the truth could be made. But he did not know that Philip had a
competent witness at hand.

"Mr. Gates!" called Philip.

The portly landlord of the Wilkesville Hotel entered the room, and
Riccaboeca saw that the game was up.

"Mr. Gates, will you be kind enough to convince this gentleman that
he owes me money?" asked Philip.

"I think he won't deny it now," said Gates significantly. "He walked
off from my hotel this morning, leaving his bill unpaid. Professor
Riccabocca, it strikes me you had better settle with us, unless you
wish to pass the night in the lockup."

Professor Riccabocca gave a forced laugh.

"Why, Mr. de Gray," he said, "you ought to have known that I was
only playing a trick on you."

"I supposed you were," said Philip.

"No, I don't mean that. I was only pretending I didn't know you, to
see if I could act naturally enough, to deceive you."

"Why did you desert me?" asked Philip suspiciously.

"I started to take a walk--didn't the bookkeeper tell you?--and
finding a chance to ride over here, thought I would do so, and make
arrangements for our appearance here. Of course, I intended to come
back, and pay our good friend, the landlord, and give you your share
of the common fund."

Neither Gates nor Philip believed a word of this. It seemed to them
quite too transparent.

"You may as well pay us now, Professor Riccabocca," said the
landlord dryly.

"I hope you don't suspect my honor or integrity," said Riccabocca,
appearing to be wounded at the thought.

"Never mind about that," said Mr. Gates shortly. "Actions speak
louder than words."

"I am quite ready to settle--quite," said the professor. "The money
is in my room. I will go up and get it."

There seemed to be no objection to this, and our two friends saw him
ascend the staircase to the second story. Philip felt pleased to
think that he had succeeded in his quest, for his share of the
concert money would be nearly seventy dollars. That, with the
balance of the money; received from Farmer Lovett, would make over a
hundred dollars.

They waited five minutes, and the professor did not come down.

"What can keep him?" said Philip.

Just then one of the hostlers entered and caught what our hero had
said.

"A man has just run out of the back door," he said, "and is cutting
across the fields at a great rate."

"He must have gone down the back stairs," said the clerk.

"In what direction would he go?" asked Philip hastily.

"To the railroad station. There is a train leaves in fifteen
minutes."

"What shall we do, Mr. Gates?" asked Philip, in dismay.

"Jump into my buggy. We'll get to the depot before the train starts.
We must intercept the rascal."






CHAPTER XXXII.

THE RACE ACROSS FIELDS.





It so happened that Professor Riccabocca had once before visited
Knoxville, and remembered the location of the railroad station.
Moreover, at the hotel, before the arrival of Philip, he had
consulted a schedule of trains posted up in the office, and knew
that one would leave precisely at ten o'clock.

The impulse to leave town by this train was sudden. He had in his
pocket the wallet containing the hundred and fifty dollars, of which
a large part belonged to Philip, and could have settled at once,
without the trouble of going upstairs to his room.

He only asked leave to go up there in order to gain time for
thought. At the head of the staircase he saw another narrower flight
of stairs descending to the back of the house. That gave him the
idea of eluding his two creditors by flight.

I have said before that Professor Riccabocca was not a wise man, or
he would have reflected that he was only postponing the inevitable
reckoning. Moreover, it would destroy the last chance of making an
arrangement with Philip to continue the combination, which thus far
had proved so profitable.

The professor did not take this into consideration, but dashed down
the back stairs, and opened the back door into the yard.

"Do you want anything, sir?" asked a maidservant, eyeing the
professor suspiciously.

"Nothing at all, my good girl," returned the professor.

"You seem to be in a hurry," she continued, with renewed suspicion.

"So I am. I am in a great hurry to meet an engagement."

"Why didn't you go out the front door?" asked the girl.

"Oh, bother! What business is it of yours?" demanded the professor
impatiently.

And, not stopping for further inquiries, he vaulted over a fence and
took his way across the fields to the station.

"Here, Sam," called the girl, her suspicions confirmed that
something was wrong, "go after that man as fast as you can!"

This was addressed to a boy who was employed at the hotel to go on
errands and do odd jobs.

"What's he done?" asked Sam.

"I don't know; but he's either run off without paying his bill, or
he's stolen something."

"What good'll it do me to chase him?" asked Sam.

"If he's cheated master, he'll pay you for catching the man."

"That's so," thought Sam. "Besides, I'll be a detective, just like
that boy I read about in the paper. I'm off!"

Fired by youthful ambition, Sam also vaulted the fence, and ran
along the foot-path in pursuit of the professor.

Lorenzo Riccabocca did not know he was pursued. He felt himself so
safe from this, on account of the secrecy of his departure, that he
never took the trouble to look behind him. He knew the way well
enough, for the fields he was crossing were level, and half a mile
away, perhaps a little more, he could see the roof of the
brown-painted depot, which was his destination. Once there, he would
buy a ticket, get on the train, and get started away from Knoxville
before the troublesome acquaintances who were waiting for him to
come down-stairs had any idea where he was gone.

The professor ran at a steady, even pace, looking straight before
him. His eyes were fixed on the haven of his hopes, and he did not
notice a stone, of considerable size, which lay in his path. The
result was that he stumbled over it, and fell forward with
considerable force. He rose, jarred and sore, but there was no time
to take account of his physical damages. He must wait till he got on
the train.

The force with which he was thrown forward was such that the wallet
was thrown from his pocket, and fell in the grass beside the path.
The professor went on his way, quite unconscious of his loss, but
there were other eyes that did not overlook it.

Sam, who was thirty rods behind, noticed Professor Riccabocca's
fall, and he likewise noticed the wallet when he reached the spot of
the catastrophe.

"My eyes!" he exclaimed, opening those organs wide in delight;
"here's luck! The old gentleman has dropped his pocketbook. Most
likely it's stolen. I'll carry it back and give it to Mr. Perry."

Sam very sensibly decided that it wasn't worth while to continue the
pursuit, now that the thief, as he supposed Riccabocca to be, had
dropped his booty.

Sam was led by curiosity to open the wallet. When he saw the thick
roll of bills, he was filled with amazement and delight.

"Oh, what a rascal he was!" ejaculated the boy. "I guess he's been
robbing a safe. I wonder how much is here?"

He was tempted to sit down on the grass and count the bills, but he
was prevented by the thought that the professor might discover his
loss, and returning upon his track, question him as to whether he
had found it. Sam determined that he wouldn't give it up, at any
rate.

"I guess I could wrastle with him," he thought. "He looks rather
spindlin', but then he's bigger than I am, and he might lick me,
after all."

I desire to say emphatically that Sam was strictly honest, and never
for a moment thought of appropriating any of the money to his own
use. He felt that as a detective he had been successful, and this
made him feel proud and happy.

"I may as well go home," he said. "If he's stolen this money from
Mr. Perry, I'll come in for a reward."

Sam did not hurry, however. He was not now in pursuit of any one,
and could afford to loiter and recover his breath.

Meanwhile, Professor Riccabocca, in happy unconsciousness of his
loss, continued his run to the station. He arrived there breathless,
and hurried to the ticket-office.

"Give me a ticket to Chambersburg," he said.

"All right, sir. Ninety cents."

If Riccabocca had been compelled to take out his wallet, he would at
once have discovered his loss, and the ticket would not have been
bought. But he had a two-dollar bill in his vest, and it was out of
this that he paid for the ticket to Chambersburg. Armed with the
ticket, he waited anxiously for the train. He had five minutes to
wait--five anxious moments in which his flight might be discovered.
He paced the platform, looking out anxiously for the train.

At length he heard the welcome sound of the approaching locomotive.
The train came to a stop, and among the first to enter it was the
eminent elocutionist. He took a seat beside the window looking out
toward the village. What did he see that brought such an anxious
look in his face?

A buggy was approaching the depot at breakneck speed. It contained
Mr. Gates, the landlord, and the young musician. Mr. Gates was
lashing the horse, and evidently was exceedingly anxious to arrive
at the depot before the train started.

Beads of perspiration stood on the anxious brow of the professor.
His heart was filled with panic terror.

"The girl must have told them of my flight," he said to himself.
"Oh, why didn't I think to give her a quarter to keep her lips
closed? Why doesn't the train start?"

The buggy was only about ten rods away. It looked as if Philip and
his companion would be able to intercept the fugitive.

Just then the scream of the locomotive was heard. The train began to
move. Professor Riccabocca gave a sigh of relief.

"I shall escape them after all," he said triumphantly, to himself.

He opened the window, and, with laughing face, nodded to his
pursuers.

"We've lost him!" said Philip, in a tone of disappointment. "What
can we do?"

"Find out where he is going, and telegraph to have him stopped,"
said Mr. Gates. "That will put a spoke in his wheel."






CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE LOST WALLET.





Mr. Gates was acquainted with the depot-master, and lost no time in
seeking him.

"Too late for the train?" asked the latter, who observed in the
landlord evidences of haste.

"Not for the train, but for one of the passengers by the train,"
responded the landlord. "Did you take notice of a man dressed in a
shabby suit of black, wearing a soft hat and having very long black
hair?"

"Yes."

"Where is he going?" asked Mr. Gates eagerly.

"He bought a ticket for Chambersburg."

"Ha! Well, I want you to telegraph for me to Chambersburg."

The station-master was also the telegraph-operator, as it chanced.

"Certainly. Just write out your message and I will send it at once."

Mr. Gates telegraphed to a deputy sheriff at Chambersburg to be at
the depot on arrival of the train, and to arrest and detain the
professor till he could communicate further with him.

"Now," said he, turning to Philip, "I think we shall he able to stop
the flight of your friend."

"Don't call him my friend," said Philip. "He is anything but a
friend."

"You are right there. Well, I will amend and call him your partner.
Now, Mr. de Gray--"

"My name is Gray--not de Gray. The professor put in the'de' because
he thought it would sound foreign."

"I presume you have as much right to the name as he has to the title
of professor," said Gates.

"I don't doubt it," returned Philip, smiling.

"Well, as I was about to say, we may as well go back to the hotel,
and await the course of events. I think there is some chance of your
getting your money back."

When they reached the hotel, they found a surprise in store for
them.

Sam had carried the professor's wallet to Mr. Perry, and been told
by them to wait and hand it in person to Philip and his friend, Mr.
Gates, who were then at the depot.

When they arrived, Sam was waiting on the stoop, wallet in hand.

"What have you got there, Sam?" asked Mr. Gates, who often came to
Knoxville, and knew the boy. "It's the wallet of that man you were
after," said Sam.

"How did you get it?" asked Philip eagerly.

"I chased him 'cross lots," said Sam.

"You didn't knock him over and take the wallet from him, did you,
Sam?" asked Mr. Gates.

"Not so bad as that," answered Sam, grinning. "You see, he tripped
over a big rock, and came down on his hands and knees. The wallet
jumped out of his pocket, but he didn't see it. I picked it up and
brought it home."

"Didn't he know you were chasing him?"

"I guess not. He never looked back."

"What made you think of running after him?"

"One of the girls told me to. The way he ran out of the back door
made her think there was something wrong."

"Suppose he had turned round?"

"I guess I could have wrastled with him," said Sam, to the amusement
of those who heard him.

"It is well you were not obliged to."

"Who shall I give the wallet to?" asked Sam.

"Mr. Gray, here, is the professor's partner, and half the money
belongs to him. You can give it to him."

"Have I a right to take it?" asked Philip, who did not wish to do
anything unlawful.

He was assured that, as the business partner of the professor, he
had as much right as Riccabocca to the custody of the common fund.

"But half of it belongs to the professor."

"He'll come back for it, in the custody of the sheriff. I didn't
think I was doing the man a good turn when I telegraphed to have him
stopped."

The first thing Philip did was to take from his own funds a
five-dollar bill, which he tendered to Sam.

"Is it all for me?" asked the boy, his eyes sparkling his joy.

"Yes; but for you I should probably have lost a good deal more.
Thank you, besides."

And Philip offered his hand to Sam, who grasped it fervently.

"I say, you're a tip-top chap," said Sam. "You ain't like a man that
lost a pocketbook last summer, with a hundred dollars in it, and
gave me five cents for finding it."

"No; I hope I'm not as mean as that," said Philip, smiling.

He opened the wallet and found a memorandum containing an exact
statement of the proceeds of the concert. This was of great service
to him, as it enabled him to calculate his own share of the profits.

The aggregate receipts were one hundred and fifty dollars and fifty
cents. Deducting bills paid, viz.:

Rent of hall........................ $5.00

Printing, etc........................ 5.00

Bill-poster ......................... 1.00

Total...........................$11.00

there was a balance of $138.50, of which Philip was entitled to
one-half, namely, $69.25. This he took, together with the eleven
dollars which he had himself paid to the creditors of the
combination, and handed the wallet, with the remainder of the money,
to Mr. Perry, landlord of the Knoxville Hotel, with a request that
he would keep it till called for by Professor Riccabocca.

"You may hand me three dollars and a half, Mr. Perry," said Mr.
Gates. "That is the amount the professor owes me for a day and
three-quarters at my hotel. If he makes a fuss, you can tell him he
is quite at liberty to go to law about it."

Meanwhile, where was the professor, and when did he discover his
loss?

After the train was a mile or two on its way he felt in his pocket
for the wallet, meaning to regale himself with a sight of its
contents--now, as he considered, all his own.

Thrusting his hand into his pocket, it met--vacancy.

Pale with excitement, he continued his search, extending it to all
his other pockets. But the treasure had disappeared!

Professor Riccabocca was panic-stricken. He could hardly suppress a
groan.

A good woman sitting opposite, judging from his pallor that he was
ill, leaned over and asked, in a tone of sympathy:

"Are you took sick?"

"No, ma'am," answered the professor sharply.

"You look as if you was goin' to have a fit," continued the
sympathizing woman. "Jest take some chamomile tea the first chance
you get. It's the sovereignest thing I know of--"

"Will chamomile tea bring back a lost pocket-book?" demanded the
professor sharply.

"Oh, Lor'! you don't say you lost your money?"

"Yes, I do!" said Riccabocca, glaring at her.

"Oh, dear! do you think there's pickpockets in the car?" asked the
old lady nervously.

"Very likely," answered the professor tragically.

The good woman kept her hand in her pocket all the rest of the way,
eyeing all her fellow passengers sharply.

But the professor guessed the truth. He had lost his wallet when he
stumbled in the field. He was in a fever of impatience to return and
hunt for it. Instead of going on to Chambersburg, he got out at the
next station--five miles from Knoxville--and walked back on the
railroad-track. So it happened that the telegram did no good.

The professor walked back to the hotel across the fields, hunting
diligently, but saw nothing of the lost wallet. He entered the
hotel, footsore, weary, and despondent. The first person he saw was
Philip, sitting tranquilly in the office.

"Did you just come down from your room?" asked our hero coolly.

"I am a most unfortunate man!" sighed Riccabocca, sinking into a
seat.

"What's the matter?"

"I've lost all our money."

"I am glad you say 'our money.' I began to think you considered it
all yours. Didn't I see you on the train?"

"I had a bad headache," stammered the professor, "and I didn't know
what I was doing."

"Does riding in the cars benefit your head?"

Professor Riccabocca looked confused.

"The wallet was found," said Philip, not wishing to keep him any
longer in suspense.

"Where is it?" asked the professor eagerly.

"Mr. Perry will give it to you. I have taken out my share of the
money, and Mr. Gates has received the amount of his bill. It would
have been better for you to attend to these matters yourselff like
an honest man."

Professor Riccabocca was so overjoyed to have back his own money
that he made no fuss about Philip's proceedings. Indeed, his own
intended dishonesty was so apparent that it would have required even
more assurance than he possessed to make a protest.






CHAPTER XXXIV.

A NEW BUSINESS PROPOSAL.





Professor Riccabocca put the wallet in his pocket with a sigh of
satisfaction. There were still sixty dollars or more in it, and it
was long since he had been so rich.

He began to think now that it might be well to revive the
combination. There was some doubt, however, as to how Philip would
receive the proposal.

He looked at his young partner and was not much encouraged. He felt
that he must conciliate him.

"Mr. de Gray," he began.

"Call me Gray. My name is not de Gray."

"Well, Mr. Gray, then. I hope you don't have any hard feelings."

"About what?" inquired Philip, surveying the professor curiously.

"About--the past," stammered the professor.

"You mean about your running off with my money?" returned Philip
plainly.

Professor Riccabocca winced. He did not quite like this form of
statement. "I am afraid you misjudge me," he said, rather confused.

"I shall be glad to listen to any explanation you have to offer,"
said our hero.

"I will explain it all to you, in time," said the professor,
recovering his old assurance. "In the meantime, I have a proposition
to make to you."

"What is it?"

"Suppose we give an entertainment in Knoxville--on the same terms as
the last."

"I shouldn't think you would like to appear before an audience here,
Professor Riccabocca."

"Why not?"

"Before night everybody will have heard of your running away with
the proceeds of the last concert."

"Public men are always misjudged. They must expect it," said the
professor, with the air of a martyr.

"I should think you would be more afraid of being justly judged."

"Mr. Gray," said the professor, "I have done wrong, I admit; but it
was under the influence of neuralgia. When I have a neuralgic
headache, I am not myself. I do things which, in a normal condition,
I should not dream of. I am the victim of a terrible physical
malady."

Philip did not believe a word of this, but he felt amused at the
professor's singular excuse.

"Come, Mr. Gray, what do you say?"

"I think I must decline," returned Philip.

But here Professor Riccabocca received unexpected help.

Mr. Perry, the landlord, who had listened to the colloquy,
approached the two speakers and said:

"Gentlemen, I have a proposal to make to you both."

Both Philip and the professor looked up, with interest.

"Some of the young men in the village," said the landlord, "have
formed a literary club, meeting weekly. They have hired and
furnished a room over one of our stores, provided it with, games and
subscribed for a few periodicals. They find, however, that the
outlay has been greater than they anticipated and are in debt. I
have been talking with the secretary, and he thinks he would like to
engage you to give an entertainment, the proceeds, beyond a fixed
sum, to go to the benefit of the club. What do you say?"

"When is it proposed to have the entertainment?" asked Philip.

"I suppose we should have to name to-morrow evening, in order to
advertise it sufficiently."

"I am willing to make any engagement that will suit the club," said
Philip.

"And I, too," said Professor Riccabocca.

"The secretary authorizes me to offer you ten dollars each, and to
pay your hotel expenses in the meantime," said Mr. Perry.

"That is satisfactory," said our hero.

"I agree," said the professor.

"Then I will at once notify the secretary, and he will take steps to
advertise the entertainment."

Ten dollars was a small sum compared with what Philip had obtained
for his evening in Wilkesville, but a week since he would have
regarded it as very large for one week's work. He felt that it was
for his interest to accept the proposal.

He secretly resolved that if the entertainment should not prove as
successful as was anticipated, he would give up a part of the sum
which was promised him for his services.

Professor Riccabocca assented the more readily to the proposal,
because he thought it might enable him again to form a business
alliance with our hero, from whom his conduct had estranged him.

"Suppose we take a room together, Mr. de Gray," he said, with an
ingratiating smile.

"Gray, if you please, professor. I don't like sailing under false
colors."

"Excuse me; the force of habit, you know. Well, do you agree?"

"The professor has more assurance than any man I ever heard of,"
thought Philip. "You must excuse me, professor," he said. "After
what has happened, I should feel safer in a room by myself."

"Why will you dwell upon the past, Mr. Gray?" said the professor
reproachfully.

"Because I am prudent, and learn from experience," answered Philip.

"I assure you, you will have nothing to complain of," said
Riccabocca earnestly. "If we are together, we can consult about the
program."

"We shall have plenty of time to do that during the day, professor."

"Then you don't care to room with me?" said Riccabocca, looking
disappointed.

"No, I don't."

"What are you afraid of?"

"I am afraid you might have an attack of neuralgic headache during
the night," said Philip, laughing.

Professor Riccabocca saw that it would be of no use for him to press
the request, and allowed himself to be conducted to the same room
which he had so unceremoniously left a short time before.

During the afternoon, Philip had a call from John Turner, the
secretary of the Young Men's Club. He was a pleasant,
straightforward young man, of perhaps twenty.

"We are very much obliged to you, Mr. Gray," he said, "for kindly
consenting to play for our benefit."

"It is for my interest," said Philip frankly. "I may as well remain
here and earn ten dollars as to be idle."

"But you made a great deal more, I understand, in Wilkesville?"

"Yes; but I might not be as fortunate here. I had not intended to
appear here at all, and should not have done so unless you had
invited me. How many have you in your club?"

"Only about twenty-five, so far, and some of us are not able to pay
much."

"How long has your club been formed?" asked Philip.

"Only about three months. We wanted a place where we could meet
together socially in the evening, and have a good time. Before, we
had only the stores and barrooms to go to, and there we were tempted
to drink. Our club was started in the interests of temperance, and
we can see already that it is exerting a good influence."

"Then I am very glad to assist you," said Philip cordially.

"You must come round and see our room. Are you at leisure now?"

"Yes, Mr. Turner."

Philip accompanied his new friend to the neatly furnished room
leased by the society. He was so well pleased with its appearance
that he thought he should himself like to belong to such an
association, whenever he found a permanent home. At present he was
only a wanderer.

"Our debt is thirty-four dollars," said the secretary. "You may not
think it large, but it's large for us."

"I hope our entertainment will enable you to clear it off."

"If it should it will give us new courage."

On the evening of the next day Philip and the professor entered the
hall engaged for the entertainment, and took seats on the platform.

The hall was well filled, the scale of prices being the same as at
Wilkesville.

"Mr. Gray," whispered the secretary joyfully, "it is a great
success! After paying all bills the club will clear fifty dollars."

"I am delighted to hear it," said Philip.

The professor commenced the entertainment, and was followed by
Philip.

As Philip began to play his attention was drawn to three persons who
were entering the hall.

These were a lady, a little girl, and a stout gentleman, in whom
Philip, almost petrified with amazement, recognized his old
acquaintance, Squire Pope, of Norton, who had shown himself so
anxious to provide him a home in the poor-house.






CHAPTER XXXV.

SQUIRE POPE IS AMAZED.





Though Philip did not know it, it chanced that Squire Pope's only
sister, Mrs. Cunningham, lived in Knoxville. She was a widow, fairly
well off, with a young daughter, Carrie--a girl of twelve. Squire
Pope had long thought of visiting his sister, and happening about
this time to have a little business in a town near-by, he decided to
carry out his long-deferred plan. He arrived by the afternoon train,
in time for supper.

"I am glad you are here to-night, brother," said Mrs. Cunningham.

"Why particularly to-night, Sister Ellen?" asked the squire.

"Because there is to be an entertainment for the benefit of the
Young Men's Literary Club. It is expected to be very interesting."

"What sort of an entertainment, Ellen?" asked the squire.

"The celebrated elocutionist, Professor Riccabocca, is to give some
readings--"

"Riccabocca!" repeated the squire, in a musing tone. "I can't say I
ever heard of him."

"Nor I; but I hear he's very celebrated."

"Is there anything else?"

"Yes, there's a young musician going to play. He is said to be
wonderful. He plays on the violin."

"He's a very handsome boy," said Carrie enthusiastically. "He's
staying at the hotel. I saw him this afternoon when I was passing."

"So he's good-looking, is he, Carrie?" asked the squire, laughing.

"He's ever so good-looking," answered Carrie emphatically.

"Then we must certainly go, for Carrie's sake," said the squire.

Squire Pope had not the slightest idea that the young musician,
about whom his niece spoke so enthusiastically, was the boy whom he
had so recently persecuted.

If Carrie had mentioned his name, the secret would have been out,
but she had not yet heard it.

In honor of her brother's arrival, Mrs. Cunningham prepared a more
elaborate supper than usual, and to this it was owing that the three
entered the hall late, just as Philip was about to commence playing.

The squire and his companions were obliged to take seats some
distance away from the platform, and as his eyesight was poor, he
didn't immediately recognize as an old acquaintance the boy who was
standing before the audience with his violin in his hand.

"That's he! That's the young violin-player!" whispered Carrie, in a
tone of delight. "Isn't he handsome, uncle!"

"Wait till I get my glasses on," said the squire, fumbling in his
pocket for his spectacle-case.

Adjusting his glasses, Squire Pope directed a glance at the stage.
He instantly recognized Philip, and his surprise was boundless. He
gave a sudden start.

"By gracious, I couldn't have believed it!" he ejaculated.

"Couldn't have believed what, brother?" asked Mrs. Cunningham.

"I know that boy!" he said, in a tone of excitement.

"You know him, uncle?" said Carrie, delighted. "Then you must
introduce me to him. I want to meet him ever so much. Where did you
ever see him?"

"Where did I see him? I'm his guardian. He ran away from me a little
more than a week since, and I never knew where he went."

"You the guardian of the wonderful boy-player?" said Carrie,
astonished. "Isn't it strange?"

"His father died a short time since and left him in my care," said
the squire, not scrupling to make a misstatement. "But I'll tell you
more about it when the performance is over."

When Philip first saw Squire Pope entering the hall it disconcerted
him, but he reflected that the squire really had no authority over
him, and consequently he had nothing to fear from him.

Should his pretended guardian make any effort to recover him, he was
resolved to make a desperate resistance, and even, if necessary, to
invoke the help of the law.

Meanwhile, his pride stimulated him to play his best, and the hearty
applause of the audience when he had finished his piece encouraged
him.

As he was bowing his thanks he could not help directing a triumphant
glance at Squire Pope, who was carefully scrutinizing him through
his gold-bowed spectacles.

He was glad that the squire had a chance to see for himself that he
was well able to make his own way, with the help of the violin of
which the Norton official had attempted to deprive him.

In truth, Squire Pope, who knew little of Philip's playing, except
that he did play, was amazed to find him so proficient. Instead,
however, of concluding that a boy so gifted was abundantly able to
"paddle his own canoe," as the saying is, he was the more resolved
to carry him back to Norton, and to take into his own care any the
boy might have earned. In the middle of the entertainment was a
recess of ten minutes, which most of the audience spent in
conversation.

Miss Carrie began again to speak of Philip.

"Oh,--uncle," she said, "I'm so glad you know that lovely
boy-player! He is earning lots of money."

"Is he!" asked the squire, pricking up his ears. "Who told you so?"

"One of the young men that belongs to the club told me they were to
pay him ten dollars for playing to-night."

"Ten dollars!" ejaculated the squire, in amazement. "I don't believe
it! It's ridiculous!"

"Oh, yes, it is true!" said Mrs. Cunningham. "John Turner told
Carrie; and he is secretary, and ought to know."

"That isn't all," continued Carrie. "Mr. Turner says it is very kind
of Mr. Gray--"

"Mr. Gray!" repeated the squire, amused.

"Well, Philip, then. I suppose you call him Philip, as you are his
guardian."

"Well, what were you going to say?"

"Mr. Turner says that it is very kind of Philip to play for so
little, for he made a good deal more money by his entertainment in
Wilkesville."

"Did he give a concert in Wilkesville?" asked the squire quickly.

"Yes, he and the professor. He was liked very much there."

"And you heard that he made a good deal of money there?"

"Yes; lots of it."

"Then," thought the squire, "he must have considerable money with
him. As his guardian I ought to have the care of it. He's a boy, and
isn't fit to have the charge of money. It's very lucky I came here
just as I did. It's my duty, as his guardian, to look after him."

The squire determined to seek an interview with our hero as soon as
the entertainment was over.






CHAPTER XXXVI.

THE PRETENDED GUARDIAN.





Philip played with excellent effect, and his efforts were received
with as much favor at Knoxville as at Wilkesville. He was twice
encored, and at the end of each of his selections he was greeted
with applause.

As for Professor Riccabocca, people hardly knew what to make of him.
He was as eccentric and extravagant as ever, and his recitations
were received with good-natured amusement. He didn't lack for
applause, however. There were some boys on the front seats who
applauded him, just for the fun of it. Though the applause was
ironical, the professor persuaded himself that it was genuine, and
posed before the audience at each outburst, with his hand on his
heart, and his head bent so far over that he seemed likely to lose
his balance.

"We are making a grand success, Mr. Gray," he said, during the
interval of ten minutes already referred to. "Did you notice how
they applauded me?"

"Yes," answered Philip, with a smile.

"They evidently appreciate true genius. It reminds me of the ovation
they gave me at Cincinnati last winter."

"Does it?" asked Philip, still smiling.

"Yes. I was a great favorite in that intellectual city. By the way,
I noticed that they seemed well pleased with your playing also."

This he said carelessly, as if Philip's applause was not to be
compared to his.

"Yes, they treat me very kindly," answered Philip.

"You are fortunate in having me to introduce you to the public,"
said the professor emphatically. "The name of Riccabocca is so well
known, that it is of great advantage to you."

The professor deluded himself with the idea that he was a great
elocutionist, and that the public rated him as highly as he did
himself. When anything occurred that did not seem to favor this
view, he closed his eyes to it, preferring to believe that he was a
popular favorite.

"I hope I shall never be so deceived about myself," thought Philip.

When the entertainment was over, Mr. Caswell, president of the club,
came up to Philip and said cordially:

"Mr. Gray, we are very much indebted to you. Thanks to you, we are
out of debt, and shall have a balance of from twelve to fifteen
dollars in the treasury."

"I am very glad of it," said Philip.

"So am I," said the professor, pushing forward, jealous lest Philip
should get more than his share of credit.

"And we are indebted to you also, Professor Riccabocca," said the
president, taking the hint.

"You are entirely welcome, sir," said Riccabocca loftily. "My help
has often been asked in behalf of charitable organizations. I
remember once, in Philadelphia, I alone raised five hundred dollars
for a--a--I think it was a hospital."

This was an invention, but Professor Riccabocca had no scruple in
getting up little fictions which he thought likely to redound to his
credit and increase his reputation.

"Doubtless you are often called upon also, Mr. Gray," suggested Mr.
Caswell with a smile.

"No," answered Philip. "This is the first time that I have ever had
the opportunity."

"There's no humbug about the boy," thought Mr. Caswell. "As for the
professor, he is full of it."

"I have pleasure in handing you the price agreed upon," said the
president, presenting each with a ten-dollar bill.

"Thank you," said Philip.

Professor Riccabocca carelessly tucked the bill into his vest
pocket, as if it were a mere trifle.

At this moment, Mr. Turner came up with all the other gentleman.
"Mr. Gray," he said, "here is a gentleman who wishes to speak to
you."

Philip looked up, and saw the well-known figure of Squire Pope.






CHAPTER XXXVII.

HIS OWN MASTER.





"Ahem, Philip," said the squire. "I should like a little
conversation with you."

"Good evening, Squire Pope," said our hero, not pretending to be
cordial, but with suitable politeness.

"I didn't expect to see you here," pursued the squire.

"Nor I you, sir."

"I am visiting my sister, Mrs. Cunningham, who lives in
Knoxville. Will you come around with me, and make a call?"

Now, considering the treatment which Philip had received from the
squire before he left Norton, the reader can hardly feel surprised
that our hero didn't care to trust himself with his unscrupulous
fellow townsman.

"Thank you, Squire Pope," said Philip, "but it is rather late for me
to call at a private house. I am staying at the hotel, and if you
will take the trouble to go around there with me, we will have a
chance to converse."

"Very well," said the squire, hesitating. Just then up came his
niece, Carrie, who was determined to get acquainted with Philip.

"Uncle," she said, "introduce me to Mr. Gray."

"This is my niece, Caroline Cunningham," said the squire stiffly.

"I am glad to meet Miss Cunningham," said Philip, extending his
hand, with a smile.

"What a lovely player you are, Mr. Gray!" she said impulsively.

"I am afraid you are flattering me, Miss Cunningham."

"Don't call me Miss Cunningham. My name is Carrie."

"Miss Carrie, then."

"I was ever so much surprised to hear that uncle was your guardian."

Philip looked quickly at the squire, but did not contradict it. He
only said:

"We used to live in the same town."

During this conversation Squire Pope looked embarrassed and
impatient.

"It's getting late, Carrie," he said. "You had better go home."

"Aren't you coming, too, uncle?"

"I am going to the hotel to settle some business with Philip."

"What business, I wonder?" thought our hero.

Arrived at the hotel, they went up-stairs to Philip's chamber. "You
left Norton very abruptly, Philip," commenced the squire.

"There was good reason for it," answered Philip significantly.

"It appears to me you are acting as if you were your own master,"
observed the squire.

"I am my own master," replied Philip firmly.

"You seem to forget that I am your guardian."

"I don't forget it, for I never knew it," said our hero.

"It is generally understood that such is the case."

"I can't help it. I don't need a guardian, and shall get along
without one."

"Ahem! Perhaps that isn't to be decided by you."

"If I am to have a guardian, Squire Pope," said Philip bluntly, "I
sha'n't select you. I shall select Mr. Dunbar."

"I have much more knowledge of business than Mr. Dunbar," said the
squire, shifting his ground.

"That may be, but there is one important objection."

"What is that?"

"You are not my friend, and Mr. Dunbar is."

"Really this is very extraordinary!" ejaculated the squire. "I am
not your friend? How do you know that?"

"You tried to make a pauper out of me, when, as you must perceive, I
am entirely able to earn my own living."

"Is it true that you were paid ten dollars for playing this
evening?" asked the squire curiously.

"Yes, sir."

"It beats all!" said the squire, in amazement.

"Yet you wanted to sell my violin for a good deal less than I have
earned in one evening," said Philip, enjoying his enemy's surprise.

"You gave an entertainment at Wilkesville also, I hear?"

"Yes, sir."

"Did you make as much there?"

"I made between sixty and seventy dollars over and above expenses."

"You don't expect me to believe that!" said the squire.

"I don't care whether you believe it or not; it's true."

"Have you got the money with you?"

"Yes."

"Then you'd better give it to me to keep for you."

"Thank you; I feel capable of taking care of it myself."

"But it's improper for a boy of your age to carry round so much
money," said the squire sharply.

"If I need help to take care of it, I will ask Mr. Dunbar."

"Come, Philip," said the squire, condescending to assume a
persuasive manner, "you must remember that I am your guardian."

"I dispute that," said Philip.

"I won't insist upon your going back with me to Norton, as long as
you are able to support yourself."

"Then you wouldn't advise me to go back to the poorhouse," said
Philip, with some sarcasm in his voice.

"I didn't mean to have you stay there long," said the squire, rather
confused. "You'd better give me most of your money, and I'll take
care of it for you, and when you're twenty-one you'll have quite a
little sum.

"I am much obliged to you, sir, but I won't put you to the trouble
of taking care of my money," answered Philip coldly.

Squire Pope continued to argue with Philip, but made no impression.
At length he was obliged to say good night.

"I will call round in the morning," he said, at parting. "Perhaps
you'll listen to reason then."

When he called round in the morning he learned to his disappointment
that Philip was gone.






CHAPTER XXXVIII.

AN OFFER DECLINED.





After his interview with Squire Pope, Philip came down to the
office, where he saw Professor Riccabocca, apparently waiting for
him.

"Well, Mr. Gray, where shall we go next?" asked the professor, with
suavity.

"I haven't decided where to go--have you?" asked Philip coolly.

"I suppose we had better go to Raymond. That is a good-sized place.
I think we can get together a good audience there."

"You seem to be under the impression that we are in partnership,"
said Philip.

"Of course," answered Riccabocca.

"I have made no agreement of that sort, professor."

"But, of course, it is understood," said Riccabocca quickly, "as
long as we draw so well."

"You must excuse me, Professor Riccabocca. I must decline the
proposal."

"But why?" inquired the professor anxiously.

"I hope you won't press me for an explanation."

"But I do. I can't understand why you should act so against your own
interest. You can't expect people will come just to hear you play.
You need me to help you."

"It may be as you say, professor, but if you insist upon my speaking
plainly, I don't care to travel with a man who has treated me as you
have."

"I don't understand you," said Riccabocca nervously; but it was
evident, from his expression, that he did.

"Then you seem very forgetful," said Philip. "You tried to deprive
me of my share of the proceeds of the entertainment at Wilkesville,
and would have succeeded but for a lucky accident."

"I told you that it was all owing to neuralgia," said Professor
Riccabocca. "I had such an attack of neuralgic headache that it
nearly drove me wild."

"Then," said Philip, "I would rather find a partner who is not
troubled with neuralgic headache. I think it would be safer."

"It won't happen again, Mr. Gray, I assure you," said the professor
apologetically.

He endeavored to persuade Philip to renew the combination, but our
hero steadily refused. He admitted that it might be to his pecuniary
advantage, but he had lost all confidence in the eminent professor,
and he thought it better to part now than to give him another
opportunity of playing a similar trick upon him.

The professor thereupon consulted the landlord as to whether it
would be advisable for him to give another entertainment unaided,
and was assured very emphatically that it would not pay expenses.

"You make a great mistake, Mr. Gray," said Riccabocca. "It would be
a great advantage for you to have my assistance at this stage of
your professional career."

"I don't expect to have any professional career," answered Philip.

"Don't you intend to become a professional musician?" asked the
professor, surprised.

"Probably not. I have only been playing because I needed money, and
my violin helped me to a living."

"You can't make as much money in any other way."

"Not at present; but I want to get a chance to enter upon some kind
of business. I am going to New York."

"You will some time have a chance to hear me there, in the Academy
of Music," said Riccabocca pompously.

"I will go and hear you," said Philip, laughing, "if I can afford a
ticket."

"Say the word and we will appear there together, Mr. Gray."

"I think not, professor."

In fact, though Philip had found himself unexpectedly successful as
a musician, he knew very well that he was only a clever amateur, and
that years of study would be needed to make him distinguished.

He was glad that he had the means of paying his expenses for a
considerable time, and had in his violin a trusty friend upon which
he could rely in case he got into financial trouble. Directly after
breakfast he set out on his journey.






CHAPTER XXXIX.

AN AMBITIOUS WAYFARER.





The large sums which Philip had received for his playing might have
dazzled a less sensible boy. He was quite conscious that he played
unusually well for a boy, but when it came to selecting music as a
profession, he felt it would not be wise to come to too hasty a
decision. To be a commonplace performer did not seem to him very
desirable, and would not have satisfied his ambition.

He had told Professor Riccabocca that he intended to go to New York.
This design had not been hastily formed. He had heard a great deal
of the great city in his home in the western part of the State of
which it was the metropolis, and he was desirous of seeing it.
Perhaps there might be some opening for him in its multitude of
business houses.

Philip had plenty of money, and could easily have bought a railroad
ticket, which would have landed him in New York inside of
twenty-four hours, for he was only about four hundred miles distant;
but he was in no hurry, and rather enjoyed traveling leisurely
through the country towns, with his violin in his hand.

It reminded him of a biography he had read of the famous Doctor
Goldsmith, author of the "Vicar of Wakefield," who made a tour on
the continent of Europe, paying his way with music evoked from a
similar instrument.

Three days later, he found himself on the outskirts of a village,
which I will call Cranston. It was afternoon, and he had walked far
enough to be tired.

He was looking about for a pleasant place to lounge, when his
attention was drawn to a boy of about his own age, who was sitting
on the stone wall under a large tree.

He was rather a slender boy, and had originally been well dressed,
but his suit was travel-stained, and covered with dust.

Now, boys have a natural attraction for each other, and Philip
determined to introduce himself to the stranger. This he did in
boy-fashion, by saying:

"Hello!"

"Hello!" said the stranger, looking up.

But he spoke slowly and wearily, and to Philip he seemed out of
spirits.

"Do you live in Cranston?" asked Philip, taking a seat beside the
other boy, upon the top of the stone wall.

"No; do you?"

"No."

"Where do you live?"

"I don't live anywhere just at present," answered Philip, with a
smile. "I am traveling."

"So am I," said the other boy.

"I am traveling to New York," Philip continued.

"And I am traveling from there," said his new acquaintance.

Then both boys surveyed each other curiously.

"What's your name?" asked the stranger.

"Philip Gray. What's your's?"

"Mine is Henry Taylor. What have you got there?"

"A violin."

"Do you play on it?"

"Yes; a little."

"I should think you'd be tired lugging it round."

Philip smiled.

"It is about all the property I have," he said; "so it won't do for
me to get tired of it."

"You're richer than I am, then," said Henry.

"Are you poor, then?" asked Philip, in a tone of sympathy.

"I haven't got a cent in my pocket, and I haven't had anything to
eat since breakfast."

"Then I'm glad I met you," said Philip warmly. "I will see that you
have a good supper. How long is it since you left New York?"

"About a week."

"What made you leave it?"

Henry Taylor hesitated, and finally answered, in a confused tone:

"I've run away from home. I wanted to go out West to kill Indians."

Philip stared at his new acquaintance in astonishment.






CHAPTER XL.

THE INDIAN HUNTER.





Philip had lived so long in a country village that he had never
chanced to read any of those absorbing romances in which one boy, of
tender years, proves himself a match for a dozen Indians, more or
less, and, therefore, he was very much amazed at Henry Taylor's
avowal that he was going out West to kill Indians.

"What do you want to kill Indians for?" he asked, after an
astonished pause.

Now it was Henry's turn to be astonished.

"Every boy wants to kill Indians," he answered, looking pityingly at
our hero.

"What for? What good will it do?" asked Philip.

"It shows he's brave," answered his new friend. "Didn't you ever
read the story of 'Bully Bill'; or, The Hero of the Plains'?"

"I never heard of it," said Philip.

"You must have lived in the woods, then," said Henry Taylor, rather
contemptuously. "It's a tip-top story. Bully Bill was only fourteen,
and killed ever so many Indians--twenty or thirty, I guess--as well
as a lot of lions and bears. Oh, he must have had lots of fun!"

"Why didn't the Indians kill him?" asked Philip, desirous of being
enlightened. "They didn't stand still and let him kill them, did
they?"

"No; of course not. They fought awful hard."

"How did one young boy manage to overcome so many Indians?"

"Oh, you'll have to read the story to find out! Bully Bill was a
great hero, and everybody admired him."

"So you wanted to imitate his example?" asked Philip.

"To be sure I did."

"How did you happen to get out of money?"

"Well," said Henry, "you see me and another boy got awful excited
after reading the story, and both concluded nothing could make us so
happy as to go out West together, and do as Bill did. Of course, it
was no use to ask the old man--"

"The old man?" queried Philip.

"The gov'nor--father, of course! So we got hold of some money--"

"You got hold of some money?" queried Philip.

"That's what I said, didn't I?" rejoined Henry irritably.

"Yes."

"Then what's the use of repeating it?"

Philip intended to ask where or how Henry got hold of the money, but
he saw pretty clearly that this would not be agreeable to his new
acquaintance. Though without much experience in the world, he
suspected that the money was not obtained honestly, and did not
press the question.

"Well, me and Tom started about a week ago. First of all, we bought
some revolvers, as, of course, we should need them to shoot Indians.
They cost more than we expected, and then we found it cost more to
travel than we thought."

"How much money did you have?"

"After paying for our revolvers, Tom and me had about thirty
dollars," said Henry.

"Only thirty dollars to go west with!" exclaimed Philip, in amazement.

"Why, you see, the revolvers cost more than we expected. Then we
stopped at a hotel in Albany, where they charged us frightfully.
That is where Tom left me."

"Tom left you at Albany?"

"Yes, he got homesick!" said Henry contemptuously. "He thought we
hadn't money enough, and he said he didn't know as he cared so much
about killing Indians."

"I agree with Tom," said Philip. "I don't think I should care very
much about killing Indians myself, and I should decidedly object to
being killed by an Indian. I shouldn't like to be scalped. Would
you?"

"Oh, I'd take care of that," said Henry. "I wouldn't let them have
the chance."

"It seems to me the best way would be to stay at home," said Philip,
smiling.

"If I stayed at home I'd have to go to school and study. I don't
care much about studying."

"I like it," said Philip. "So Tom left you, did he?"

"Yes; but I wasn't going to give up so easy. He took half the money
that was left, though I thought he ought to have given it to me, as
I needed it more. I wasn't going home just as I'd started."

"Then you've spent all your money now?"

"Yes," answered Henry gloomily. "Have you got much money?" he asked,
after a pause.

"Yes, I have about a hundred dollars-say, ninety-five."

"You don't mean it!" ejaculated Henry, hie eyes sparkling.

"Yes, I do."

"How did you get it?"

"I earned most of it by playing on the violin."

"I say," exclaimed Henry, in excitement, "suppose you and me go into
partnership together, and go out West--"

"To kill Indians?" asked Philip, smiling.

"Yes! With all that money we'll get along. Besides, if we get short,
you can earn some more."

"But what advantage am I to get out of it? I am to furnish all the
capital and pay all expenses, as far as I can understand. Generally,
both partners put in something."

"I put in my revolver," said Henry.

"One revolver won't do for us both."

"Oh, well, you can buy one. Come, what do you say?" asked Henry
eagerly.

"Let me ask you a few questions first. Where does your father live?"

"In New York."

"What is his business?"

"He is a broker in Wall Street."

"I suppose he is rich?"

"Oh, he's got plenty of money, I expect! We live in a nice house on
Madison Avenue. That's one of the best streets, I suppose you know!"

"I never was in New York. Is your mother living?"

"No," answered Henry. "She died three years ago."

If his mother had been living, probably the boy would never have
made such an escapade, but his father, being engrossed by business
cares, was able to give very little attention to his son, and this
accounts in part for the folly of which he had been guilty.

"Have you got any brothers or sisters?" he asked.

"I have one sister, about three years younger than I. Her name is
Jennie."

"I wish I were as well off as you," said Philip.

"How do you mean?"

"I mean I wish I had a father and sister."

"Haven't you?"

"My father is dead," said Philip gravely, "and I never had a
sister."

"Oh, well, I don't know as I'm so lucky," said Henry. "Sisters are a
bother. They want you to go round with them, and the old man is
always finding fault."

Philip's relations with his father had always been so affectionate
that he could not understand how Henry could talk in such a way of
his.

"I don't know what makes you ask me such a lot of questions," said
Henry, showing impatience. "Come, what do you say to my offer ?"

"About forming a partnership?"

"Yes."

"I'd rather not--in that way."

"In what way?"

"I mean for the purpose of going out West to kill Indians."

"You've no idea what fun it would be," said Henry, disappointed.

"No, I suppose not," said Philip, smiling.

"Then I suppose I shall have to give it up," said Henry.

"Now I have a proposal to make to you," said Philip.

"What is it?"

"If you agree to go home, I'll pay your expenses and go along with
you. I've never been to New York, and I'd like to have some one with
me that could show me round the city."

"I can do that," said Henry. "I know the way all about."

"Then will you agree?"

"Yes."

"Then come along, and we'll stop at the first convenient place and
get some supper."






CHAPTER XLI.

AN ADVENTURE IN THE WOODS.





"I shall do a good thing if I induce Henry to go home," thought
Philip. "That is rather a queer idea of his about wanting to kill
Indians. It seems to me as much murder to kill an Indian as any one
else."

He only thought this, but did not express it, as he did not care to
get into a discussion with his new acquaintance, lest the latter
should recall his consent to go home.

"I say, Philip," said Henry, who had now learned our hero's name,
"we ain't in any hurry to go to New York, are we?"

"I thought we might take a train to-morrow morning, and go straight
through."

"But I'd rather take it easy, and travel through the country, and
have adventures."

"But you forget that your father will be anxious about you."

"Yes, I suppose he will."

"I'll tell you what I'll do. If you'll write a letter to your
father, and let him know that you are safe with me, I'll do as you
say."

"All right," said Henry, in a tone of satisfaction; "I'll do it."

"Father'll pay you all you have to spend for me," Henry added, after
a moment's pause.

"Very well; then I will be your banker."

Philip was not foolish enough to protest that he did not care to be
repaid. All he had in the world was a little less than a hundred
dollars, and when that was gone he was not absolutely sure of making
any more at once, though he felt tolerably confident that he could.

"Suppose you let me have ten dollars now," suggested Henry.

"I think I would rather keep the money and pay the bills," said
Philip quietly.

He was not sure but that Henry, if he had a supply of money in his
pockets, would reconsider his promise to go home and take French
leave.

Of course, it would be extremely foolish, but his present expedition
did not indicate the possession of much wisdom.

"I don't see what difference it makes," said Henry, looking
dissatisfied.

"I won't argue the point," answered Philip good-naturedly.

"I wish I was in New York, near a good restaurant," said Henry,
after a pause.

"Oh. I forgot! You are hungry."

"Awfully. I don't believe there's a hotel within two or three miles.
I don't think I can hold out to walk much farther."

A few rods farther on was a farmhouse standing back from the road,
old-fashioned-looking, but of comfortable aspect.

A young girl appeared at the side door and rang a noisy bell with
great vigor.

"They're going to have supper," said Henry wistfully. "I wish it was
a hotel!"

Philip had lived in the country, and understood the hospitable ways
of country people.

"Come along, Henry," he said. "I'll ask them to sell us some supper.
I am sure they will be willing."

Followed by his new acquaintance, he walked up to the side door and
knocked--for there was no bell.

The young girl--probably about Philip's age--opened the door and
regarded them with some surprise.

Philip bowed.

"Will you be kind enough to tell us if there is any hotel near-by?"
he asked.

"There's one about three miles and a half farther on."

Henry groaned inwardly.

"I am going to ask you a favor," said Philip. "My friend and I have
traveled a considerable distance, and stand in need of supper. We
are willing to pay as much as we should have to at a hotel, if you
will let us take supper here."

"I'll ask mother," said the young girl.

And forthwith she disappeared. She came back in company with a
stout, motherly-looking woman. Philip repeated his request.

"Why, to be sure," she said heartily. "We always have enough, and to
spare. Come right in, and we'll have supper as soon as the
men-folks come in."

They entered a neat kitchen, in the middle of which was set out a
table, with a savory supper upon it. Henry's eyes sparkled, and his
mouth watered, for the poor boy was almost famished.

"If you want to wash come right in here," said the farmer's wife,
leading the way into a small room adjoining.

The two boys gladly availed themselves of the permission, though
Henry would not have minded sitting right down, dusty as he was.
However, he felt better after he had washed his face and bands and
wiped them on the long roll towel that hung beside the sink.

They were scarcely through, when their places were taken by the
farmer and his son, the latter a tall, sun-burned young man, of
about twenty, who had just come in from a distant field. The
farmer's wife soon explained the presence of the two young
strangers.

"Sho!" said the farmer. "You're pretty young to be travelin'. You
ain't in any business, be you?"

Henry was rather ashamed to mention that his business was killing
Indians, though, as yet, he had not done anything in that line. He
had an idea that he might be laughed at.

"I am a little of a musician," said Philip modestly.

"Sho! do you make it pay?"

"Pretty well, so far; but I think when I get to New York I shall try
something else."

"Are you a musician as well as he?" asked the farmer of Henry.

"No, sir."

"Come, father, you'd better sit down to supper, and do your talking
afterward," said the farmer's wife.

So they sat down to the table, and all did full justice to the
wholesome fare, particularly Henry, who felt absolutely ravenous.

Never at the luxurious home of his father, in Madison Avenue, had
the wandering city boy enjoyed his supper as much as at the plain
table of this country farmer.

The good mistress of the household was delighted at the justice done
to her viands, considering it a tribute to her qualities as a cook.

When Philip produced his purse to pay for their supper, the farmer
absolutely refused to receive anything. "But I would rather pay,"
persisted our hero.

"Then I'll tell you how you may pay. Give us one or two tunes on
your violin."

This Philip was quite willing to do, and it is needless to say that
his small audience was very much pleased.

"I say," said Henry, "you play well enough to give concerts."

"I have done it before now," answered Philip, smiling.

They were invited to spend the night, but desired to push on to the
hotel, being refreshed by their supper and feeling able to walk
three or four miles farther.

About half-way their attention was drawn to what appeared a deserted
cabin in the edge of the woods, some twenty rods back from the road.

"I say, Philip," said Henry, "there's an old hut that looks as if
nobody lived in it. Wouldn't it be a lark for us to sleep there
to-night? It would save the expense of lodging at the hotel, and
would be an adventure. I haven't had any adventures yet."

"I have no objection," said Philip. "We'll go, at any rate, and look
at it."

They crossed the field, which seemed to have been only partially
cleared, and soon reached the hut.

It was very bare within, but on the floor, in one corner, was a
blanket spread out. There was a place for a window, but the sash had
been removed, and it was easy to step in.

"I wonder how this blanket came here?" said Philip.

"Oh, I guess the last people that lived here left it!" returned
Henry. "I say, Phil, I begin to feel tired. Suppose we lie down? I'm
glad I haven't got to walk any farther."

Philip sympathized with his new friend; and so, without much parley,
the two boys threw themselves down on the blanket, and were soon
fast asleep.

How long Philip slept he didn't know, but he was awakened by a
terrible screech, and, opening his eyes, say Henry sitting bolt
upright, with trembling limbs and distended eyeballs, gazing
fearfully at a tall, muscular-looking Indian, who had just stepped
into the cabin through the open window.






CHAPTER XLII.

AN INDIAN AT LAST.





"What's the matter?" asked Philip, rubbing his eyes, for he was
hardly able--so suddenly had he been roused from sleep--to
comprehend the situation.

Henry, as white as a sheet, could only point at the tall Indian,
who, standing motionless, was gazing as intently at the boys.

He made one step forward, and Henry thought he was about to be
killed and scalped forthwith.

"Oh, Mr. Indian Chief," he exclaimed, in tremulous accents, "don't
kill me! I--I ain't ready to die!"

The Indian looked amazed, and laughed gutturally, but did not speak.
His laugh increased Henry's dismay.

"I've got a revolver. I'll give it to you if you won't kill me,"
continued Henry.

Then the Indian spoke.

"Why should I kill white boy?" he asked in a mild tone, which ought
to have convinced Henry that he had nothing to fear.

But the boy was so frenzied with terror, and so possessed of the
thought that the Indian was just like the savage warriors of the
plains, of whom he had read so much, that he still felt his life to
be in danger, and answered the question in a way not expected.

"I suppose you want my scalp," he said; "but I am only a boy, and I
don't mean any harm. I hope you'll spare my life."

Another fit of guttural laughter from the Indian, which perplexed
Henry, and after a pause he said:

"Me no want white boy's scalp! Me good Indian!"

An immense burden seemed lifted from poor Henry's breast.

"Then you don't want to kill me?" he said.

"No!"

"Then why do you come here?"

"Me live here."

The secret was out--a secret which Philip had suspected from the
first, though Henry had not dreamed of it.

They had lain down in the Indian's cabin, appropriating his blanket,
and were simply intruders.

Philip thought it was time for him to take part in the conversation,

"I hope you'll excuse us," he said, "for coming here. We had no idea
any one lived here."

"No matter," said the Indian civilly--that being one of the phrases
which his knowledge of English included.

"Henry," said Philip, "let us get up. We are sleeping in this--this
gentleman's bed."

He felt a little at a loss how to designate the Indian, but felt
that it was best to be as polite as possible.

The two boys started up, in order to yield to the master of the
house the bed which properly belonged to him.

"No," said the Indian, with a wave of his hand. "White boys stay
there. Indian sleep anywhere."

So saying, he lay down in one corner of the cabin, and settled
himself apparently to repose.

"But," said Philip, "we don't want to take your bed."

"No matter!" said the Indian once more.

"You are very kind," said Philip. "Henry, we may as well lay down
again."

Henry obeyed directions, but he was not altogether free from alarm.
He had read that the Indians are very crafty. How did he know but
their copper-colored host might get up in the night, skillfully
remove their scalps, and leave them in a very uncomfortable plight?

"Hadn't we better get up, and run away as soon as he is asleep?" he
whispered to Philip.

"No; he's friendly," answered Philip confidently.

As Henry had read about friendly Indians--all he knew about Indians,
by the way, was derived from reading stories written by authors
little wiser than himself--he concluded that perhaps there was
nothing to fear, and after a while fell asleep again.

When the boys awoke it was morning. They looked toward the corner
where the Indian had lain down, but it was vacant.

"He's gone." said Henry, rather relieved.

"You were pretty well frightened last night," said Philip, smiling.

"Who wouldn't be!" asked Henry; "to wake up and see a big Indian in
the room?"

"I dare say many boys would be frightened," said Philip, "but I
don't think a boy who left home to go out West to kill Indians ought
to be afraid of one."

"I guess I'll give up going," said Henry, rather abashed.

"I think myself it would be as well," observed Philip quietly.
"You'd find it rather serious business if you should meet any real
Indian warriors."

"I don't know but I should," Henry admitted, rather awkwardly. "I
didn't think much about it when I left home."

"I suppose you thought you'd be a match for half a dozen Indian
warriors?" said Philip, laughing.

"That was the way with 'Bully Bill'; or, 'The Hero of the Plains,'"
said Henry. "He always came off best when he fought with the
Indians."

"I don't think either you or I will ever prove a Bully Bill," said
Philip. "I might enjoy going out West some time, but I shouldn't
expect to kill many Indians. I think they would stand a good deal
better chance of shooting me."

Henry said nothing, but looked thoughtful. His romantic ideas seemed
to have received a sudden shock, and he was trying to adjust his
ideas to the new light he had received.

The boys were preparing to go out, when their Indian host suddenly
reappeared. He carried in his hand a large-sized loaf of baker's
bread, which he had procured at the village store. He was alive to
the duties of hospitality, and did not intend to let his guests go,
uninvited though they were, without a breakfast.

Though his stock of English was limited, he made out to invite the
boys to breakfast with him.

Henry would have preferred to go to the hotel, but Philip signed to
him to accept graciously the Indian's hospitality.

As the bread was fresh, they partook of it with relish, washing it
down with drafts of clear spring water.

The Indian looked on, well pleased to see the justice done to his
hospitality. He explained to the boys that he made baskets, caught
fish, and sometimes engaged in hunting, managing, in one way and
another, to satisfy his simple wants. His name was Winuca, but his
white neighbors called him Tom.

When the boys were ready to go, Philip drew from his pocket a
jack-knife, nearly new, of which he asked the Indian's acceptance.

Winuca seemed very much pleased, and shook hands heartily with his
young guests, wishing them good-by.

The boys kept on to the hotel, where they spent a few hours, taking
dinner there. Their breakfast had been so simple that they had a
very good appetite for their midday meal.

"While we are here, Henry, suppose you write to your father and
relieve his anxiety?" suggested Philip.

"Why can't you write?" asked Henry, who cherished the general boyish
distaste for letter-writing.

"Because it will be more proper for you to write. I am a stranger to
him."

"You won't be long, Philip? I shall want you to come and make me a
visit."

"Perhaps you'll be tired of me before we get to New York," suggested
Philip, with a smile.

"There isn't much chance of it. I like you better than any boy I
know. You're awful brave, too. You didn't seem to be at all scared
last night when the Indian came in."

"It was because I felt sure that any Indian to be found about here
would be harmless."

"I wish we could make a journey together some time. I'd like to go
West--"

"To kill Indians?"

"No. If they'll let me alone, I'll let them alone; but there must be
a lot of fun out on the prairies."

"Well, Henry, go and write your letter, and we can talk about that
afterward."

The letter was written and mailed, and arrived in New York several
days before the boys did.






CHAPTER XLIII.

A WELCOME LETTER.





Alexander Taylor, a Wall Street broker, sat at breakfast in his fine
house on Madison Avenue. His daughter, Jennie, about thirteen years
old, was the only other person at the table.

"Papa, have you heard nothing of Henry?" asked the little girl
anxiously.

"Only that the boy who got started with him on his foolish tramp got
back three days since."

"Is Tom Murray back, then?"

"Yes; he showed himself more sensible than Henry."

"Oh, I'm afraid something's happened to him, papa! Why don't you
advertise for him, or send out a detective, or something?"

"I will tell you, Jennie," said Mr. Taylor, laying down the morning
paper. "I want your brother to stay away long enough to see his
folly."

"But perhaps he may get out of money, and not be able to get
anything to eat. You wouldn't want him to starve, papa?"

"There isn't much chance of it. If he is in danger of that, he will
have sense enough to ask for food, or to write to me for help. I
rather hope he will have a hard time."

"Oh, papa!"

"It will do him good. If I sent for him and brought him back against
his will, he would probably start off again when he has a good
chance."

Jennie could not quite follow her father in his reasoning, and was
inclined to think him hard and unfeeling. She missed her brother,
who, whatever his faults, treated her tolerably well, and was at any
rate a good deal of company, being the only other young person in
the house.

Just then the servant entered with three letters, which he laid down
beside his master's plate.

Mr. Taylor hastily scanned the addresses.

"Here is a letter from Henry," he said, in a tone of satisfaction.

"Oh, read it quick, papa!"

This was the letter which Mr. Taylor read aloud, almost too
deliberately for the impatience of his daughter:

"Dear Father: I am alive and well, and hope to see you in a few
days. I guess I made a mistake in running away, though I didn't
think so at the time, for I wanted to see life, and have adventures.
I don't know how I should have got along if I hadn't met Philip
Gray. He's a tip-top fellow, and is paying my expenses. I told him
you would pay him back. He has got me off the idea of going West to
kill Indians."

"Oh, papa!" exclaimed Jennie, opening her eyes wide. "I didn't know
that was what Henry went for."

"I don't think the Indians would have felt very much frightened if
they had heard of his intention. However, I will proceed:

"I was all out of money when Philip met me, and I hadn't had
anything to eat since morning, he bought me some supper, and is
paying my expenses. He is a poor boy, coming to New York to get a
place, if he can. He has got a violin, and he plays beautifully. He
earned all the money he has by giving concerts."

"I should like to see Philip," said Jennie, with interest.

"I asked him if he wouldn't go out West with me, but he wouldn't. He
told me he wouldn't do anything for me unless I would agree to come
home."

"He is a sensible boy," commented Mr. Taylor, in a tone of approval.

"We thought at first of coming right home on the cars, but I wanted
to walk and see something of the country, and Philip said he didn't
mind. He told me I must write and tell you, so that you needn't feel
anxious.

"You will see us in a few days. I will bring Philip to the house.
Your son, HENRY TAYLOR."

"Is that all?" asked Jennie.

"Yes; I consider it a very fair letter. It is evident Henry has made
the acquaintance of a sensible boy. I shall take care that he
doesn't let it drop."






CHAPTER XLIV.

A FRESH START.





Five days later, just as Mr. Tayior was sitting down to dinner, at
the close of the day, the door-bell rang violently.

There was a hurried step heard in the hall, and the door opening
quickly Henry Taylor rushed in, his face beaming with smiles.

"Oh, I'm so glad to see you, Henry!" said Jennie, embracing him. "I
missed you awfully."

Henry looked at his father, a little doubtful of his reception.

"Are you well, father?" he asked.

"Quite well," responded Mr. Taylor coolly. "Where did you leave your
scalps?"

"What?" ejaculated Henry, bewildered.

"I thought you left home to kill Indians."

"Oh!" said Henry, smiling faintly. "I didn't meet any
Indians--except one--and he was friendly."

"Then your expedition was a failure?"

"I guess I'll leave the Indians alone," said Henry sheepishly.

"That strikes me as a sensible remark. Of course, a few Indian
scalps would be of great use to you. I fully expected a present of
one, as a trophy of my son's valor; but still, in case the Indian
objected to being scalped, there might be a little risk in
performing the operation."

"I see you are laughing at me, father," said Henry.

"Not at all. You can see that I am very sober. If you think you can
make a good living hunting Indians--I don't know myself how much
their scalps bring in the market--I might set you up in the
business."

"I am not so foolish as I was. I prefer some other business. Philip
told me--"

"Where is Philip?" asked Jennie eagerly.

"I left him in the parlor. He said I had better come in first."

"Go and call him. Invite him, with my compliments, to stay to
dinner."

Henry left the room, and reappeared almost immediately with Philip.

Both boys were perfectly neat in appearance, for Philip had insisted
on going to a hotel and washing and dressing themselves.

As he followed Henry into the room, with modest self-possession, his
cheeks glowing with a healthy color, both Jennie and Mr. Taylor were
instantly prepossessed in his favor.

"I am glad to see you, Philip," said the broker, "and beg to thank
you, not only for the material help you gave Henry, but also for the
good advice, which I consider of still greater importance and
value."

"Thank you, sir. I don't feel competent to give much advice, but I
thought his best course was to come home."

"You haven't as high an idea of hunting Indians as Henry, I infer?"

"No, sir," answered Philip, smiling. "It seems to me they have as
much right to live as we, if they behave themselves."

"I think so, too," said Henry, who was rather ashamed of what had
once been his great ambition.

"You haven't introduced me to Philip--I mean Mr. Gray," said Jennie.

"This is my sister Jennie, Phil," said Henry, in an off-hand manner.

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Gray," said Jennie, extending her
hand.

"I am hardly used to that name," said Philip, smiling.

"When I get well acquainted with you I shall call you Philip."

"I hope you will."

Within an hour Miss Jennie appeared to feel well acquainted with her
brother's friend, for she dropped "Mr. Gray" altogether, and called
him Philip.

At her solicitation he played on his violin. Both Mr. Taylor and
Jennie were surprised at the excellence of his execution.

When Philip rose to go, Mr. Taylor said cordially:

"I cannot permit you to leave us, Philip. You must remain here as
our guest."

"But, sir, I left my things at a hotel."

"Then Henry will go with you and get them."

So Philip found himself established in a fine house on Madison
Avenue as a favored guest.

The next morning, when Mr. Taylor went to his office, he asked
Philip to go with him. Arrived in Wall Street, he sent a boy to the
bank with a check. On his return, he selected five twenty-dollar
bills, and handed them to Philip.

"You have expended some money for Henry," he said.

"Yes, sir; but not quarter as much as this."

"Then accept the rest as a gift. You will probably need some new
clothes. Henry will take you to our tailor. Don't spare expense. The
bill will be sent to me."

"But, Mr. Taylor, I do not deserve such kindness."

"Let me be the judge of that. In a few days I shall have a proposal
to make to you."

This was the proposal, and the way it was made:

"I find, Philip," said Mr. Taylor, some days later, "that Henry is
much attached to you, and that your influence over him is excellent.
He has agreed to go to an academy in Connecticut, and study hard for
a year, provided you will go with him. I take it for granted you
haven't completed your education?"

"No, sir."

"I shall pay all the bills and provide for you in every way, exactly
as I do for Henry."

"But, Mr. Taylor, how can I ever repay you?" asked Philip.

"By being Henry's friend and adviser--perhaps, I may say,
guardian--for, although you are about the same age, you are far
wiser and more judicious."

"I will certainly do the best I can for him, sir."

During the next week the two boys left New York, and became pupils
at Doctor Shelley's private academy, at Elmwood--a pleasant country
town not far from Long Island Sound--and there we bid them adieu.

THE END.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Young Musician , by Horatio Alger






Tales of War

by Lord Dunsany


Tales of War was first published in 1918 and the text is in the
public domain. The transcription was done by William McClain
<info@sattre-press.com>, 2002.

A printed version of this book is available from Sattre Press,
http://tow.sattre-press.com. It includes a new introduction and
photographs of the author.



The Prayer of the Men of Daleswood

He said: ``There were only twenty houses in Daleswood. A place you
would scarcely have heard of. A village up top of the hills.

``When the war came there was no more than thirty men there between
sixteen and forty-five. They all went.

``They all kept together; same battalion, same platoon. They was like
that in Daleswood. Used to call the hop pickers foreigners, the ones
that come from London. They used to go past Daleswood, some of them,
every year, on their way down to the hop fields. Foreigners they used
to call them. Kept very much to themselves, did the Daleswood people.
Big woods all round them.

``Very lucky they was, the Daleswood men. They'd lost no more than
five killed and a good sprinkling of wounded. But all the wounded was
back again with the platoon. This was up to March when the big
offensive started.

``It came very sudden. No bombardment to speak of. Just a burst of Tok
Emmas going off all together and lifting the front trench clean out of
it; then a barrage behind, and the Boche pouring over in thousands.
`Our luck is holding good,' the Daleswood men said, for their trench
wasn't getting it at all. But the platoon on their right got it. And
it sounded bad too a long way beyond that. No one could be quite sure.
But the platoon on their right was getting it: that was sure enough.

``And then the Boche got through them altogether. A message came to
say so. `How are things on the right?' they said to the runner. `Bad,'
said the runner, and he went back, though Lord knows what he went back
to. The Boche was through right enough. `We'll have to make a
defensive flank,' said the platoon commander. He was a Daleswood man
too. Came from the big farm. He slipped down a communication trench
with a few men, mostly bombers. And they reckoned they wouldn't see
any of them any more, for the Boche was on the right, thick as
starlings.

``The bullets were snapping over thick to keep them down while the
Boche went on, on the right: machine guns, of course. The barrage was
screaming well over and dropping far back, and their wire was still
all right just in front of them, when they put up a head to look.
There was the left platoon of the battalion. One doesn't bother,
somehow, so much about another battalion as one's own. One's own gets
sort of homely. And there they were wondering how their own officer
was getting on, and the few fellows with them, on his defensive flank.
The bombs were going off thick. All the Daleswood men were firing half
right. It sounded from the noise as if it couldn't last long, as if it
would soon be decisive, and the battle be won, or lost, just there on
the right, and perhaps the war ended. They didn't notice the left.
Nothing to speak of.

``Then a runner came from the left. `Hullo!' they said, `How are
things over there?'

```The Boche is through,' he said. `Where's the officer?' `Through!'
they said. It didn't seem possible. However did he do that? they
thought. And the runner went on to the right to look for the officer.

``And then the barrage shifted further back. The shells still screamed
over them, but the bursts were further away. That is always a relief.
Probably they felt it. But it was bad for all that. Very bad. It meant
the Boche was well past them. They realized it after a while.

``They and their bit of wire were somehow just between two waves of
attack. Like a bit of stone on the beach with the sea coming in. A
platoon was nothing to the Boche; nothing much perhaps just then to
anybody. But it was the whole of Daleswood for one long generation.

``The youngest full-grown man they had left behind was fifty, and some
one had heard that he had died since the war. There was no one else in
Daleswood but women and children, and boys up to seventeen.

``The bombing had stopped on their right; everything was quieter, and
the barrage further away. When they began to realize what that meant
they began to talk of Daleswood. And then they thought that when all
of them were gone there would be nobody who would remember Daleswood
just as it used to be. For places alter a little, woods grow, and
changes come, trees get cut down, old people die; new houses are built
now and then in place of a yew tree, or any old thing, that used to be
there before; and one way or another the old things go; and all the
time you have people thinking that the old times were best, and the
old ways when they were young. And the Daleswood men were beginning to
say, `Who would there be to remember it just as it was?'

``There was no gas, the wind being wrong for it, so they were able to
talk, that is if they shouted, for the bullets alone made as much
noise as breaking up an old shed, crisper like, more like new timber
breaking; and the shells of course was howling all the time, that is
the barrage that was bursting far back. The trench still stank of
them.

``They said that one of them must go over and put his hands up, or run
away if he could, whichever he liked, and when the war was over he
would go to some writing fellow, one of those what makes a living by
it, and tell him all about Daleswood, just as it used to be, and he
would write it out proper and there it would be for always. They all
agreed to that. And then they talked a bit, as well as they could
above that awful screeching, to try and decide who it should be. The
eldest, they said, would know Daleswood best. But he said, and they
came to agree with him, that it would be a sort of waste to save the
life of a man what had had his good time, and they ought to send the
youngest, and they would tell him all they knew of Daleswood before
his time, and everything would be written down just the same and the
old time remembered.

``They had the idea somehow that the women thought more of their own
man and their children and the washing and what-not; and that the deep
woods and the great hills beyond, and the plowing and the harvest and
snaring rabbits in winter and the sports in the village in summer, and
the hundred things that pass the time of one generation in an old, old
place like Daleswood, meant less to them than the men. Anyhow they did
not quite seem to trust them with the past.

``The youngest of them was only just eighteen. That was Dick. They
told him to get out and put his hands up and be quick getting across,
as soon as they had told him one or two things about the old time in
Daleswood that a youngster like him wouldn't know.

``Well, Dick said he wasn't going, and was making trouble about it, so
they told Fred to go. Back, they told him, was best, and come up
behind the Boche with his hands up; they would be less likely to shoot
when it was back towards their own supports.

``Fred wouldn't go, and so on with the rest. Well, they didn't waste
time quarrelling, time being scarce, and they said what was to be
done? There was chalk where they were, low down in the trench, a
little brown clay on the top of it. There was a great block of it
loose near a shelter. They said they would carve with their knives on
the big bowlder of chalk all that they knew about Daleswood. They
would write where it was and just what it was like, and they would
write something of all those little things that pass with a
generation. They reckoned on having the time for it. It would take a
direct hit with something large, what they call big stuff, to do any
harm to that bowlder. They had no confidence in paper, it got so
messed up when you were hit; besides, the Boche had been using
thermite. Burns, that does.

``They'd one or two men that were handy at carving chalk; used to do
the regimental crest and pictures of Hindenburg, and all that. They
decided they'd do it in reliefs.

``They started smoothing the chalk. They had nothing more to do but
just to think what to write. It was a great big bowlder with plenty of
room on it. The Boche seemed not to know that they hadn't killed the
Daleswood men, just as the sea mightn't know that one stone stayed dry
at the coming in of the tide. A gap between two divisions probably.

``Harry wanted to tell of the woods more than anything. He was afraid
they might cut them down because of the war, and no one would know of
the larks they had had there as boys. Wonderful old woods they were,
with a lot of Spanish chestnut growing low, and tall old oaks over it.
Harry wanted them to write down what the foxgloves were like in the
wood at the end of summer, standing there in the evening, `Great
solemn rows,' he said, `all odd in the dusk. All odd in the evening,
going there after work; and makes you think of fairies.' There was
lots of things about those woods, he said, that ought to be put down
if people were to remember Daleswood as it used to be when they knew
it. What were the good old days without those woods? he said.

``But another wanted to tell of the time when they cut the hay with
scythes, working all those long days at the end of June; there would
be no more of that, he said, with machines come in and all.

``There was room to tell of all that and the woods too, said the
others, so long as they put it short like.

``And another wanted to tell of the valleys beyond the wood, far
afield where the men went working; the women would remember the hay.
The great valleys he'd tell of. It was they that made Daleswood. The
valleys beyond the wood and the twilight on them in summer. Slopes
covered with mint and thyme, all solemn at evening. A hare on them
perhaps, sitting as though they were his, then lolloping slowly away.
It didn't seem from the way he told of those old valleys that he
thought they could ever be to other folk what they were to the
Daleswood men in the days he remembered. He spoke of them as though
there were something in them, besides the mint and the thyme and the
twilight and hares, that would not stay after these men were gone,
though he did not say what it was. Scarcely hinted it even.

``And still the Boche did nothing to the Daleswood men. The bullets
had ceased altogether. That made it much quieter. The shells still
snarled over, bursting far, far away.

``And Bob said tell of Daleswood itself, the old village, with queer
chimneys, of red brick, in the wood. There weren't houses like that
nowadays. They'd be building new ones and spoiling it, likely, after
the war. And that was all he had to say.

``And nobody was for not putting down anything any one said. It was
all to go in on the chalk, as much as would go in the time. For they
all sort of understood that the Daleswood of what they called the good
old time was just the memories that those few men had of the days they
had spent there together. And that was the Daleswood they loved, and
wanted folks to remember. They were all agreed as to that. And then
they said how was they to write it down. And when it came to writing
there was so much to be said, not spread over a lot of paper I don't
mean, but going down so deep like, that it seemed to them how their
own talk wouldn't be good enough to say it. And they knew no other,
and didn't know what to do. I reckon they'd been reading magazines and
thought that writing had to be like that muck. Anyway, they didn't
know what to do. I reckon their talk would be good enough for
Daleswood when they loved Daleswood like that. But they didn't, and
they were puzzled.

``The Boche was miles away behind them now, and his barrage with him.
Still in front he did nothing.

``They talked it all over and over, did the Daleswood men. They tried
everything. But somehow or other they couldn't get near what they
wanted to say about old summer evenings. Time wore on. The bowlder was
smooth and ready, and that whole generation of Daleswood men could
find no words to say what was in their hearts about Daleswood. There
wasn't time to waste. And the only thing they thought of in the end
was `Please, God, remember Daleswood just like it used to be.' And
Bill and Harry carved that on the chalk between them.

``What happened to the Daleswood men? Why, nothing. There come one of
them counter-attacks, a regular bastard for Jerry. The French made it
and did the Boche in proper. I got the story from a man with a hell of
a great big hammer, long afterwards when that trench was well behind
our line. He was smashing up a huge great chunk of chalk because he
said they all felt it was so damn silly.''

The Road

The battery Sergeant-Major was practically asleep. He was all worn out
by the continuous roar of bombardments that had been shaking the
dugouts and dazing his brains for weeks. He was pretty well fed up.

The officer commanding the battery, a young man in a very neat uniform
and of particularly high birth, came up and spat in his face. The
Sergeant-Major sprang to attention, received an order, and took a
stick at once and beat up the tired men. For a message had come to the
battery that some English (God punish them!) were making a road at X.

The gun was fired. It was one of those unlucky shots that come on days
when our luck is out. The shell, a 5.9, lit in the midst of the British
working party. It did the Germans little good. It did not stop the
deluge of shells that was breaking up their guns and was driving
misery down like a wedge into their spirits. It did not improve the
temper of the officer commanding the battery, so that the men suffered
as acutely as ever under the Sergeant-Major. But it stopped the road
for that day.

I seemed to see that road going on in a dream.

Another working party came along next day, with clay pipes and got to
work; and next day and the day after. Shells came, but went short or
over; the shell holes were neatly patched up; the road went on. Here
and there a tree had to be cut, but not often, not many of them were
left; it was mostly digging and grubbing up roots, and pushing
wheelbarrows along planks and duck-boards, and filling up with stones.
Sometimes the engineers would come: that was when streams were
crossed. The engineers made their bridges, and the infantry working
party went on with the digging and laying down stones. It was
monotonous work. Contours altered, soil altered, even the rock beneath
it, but the desolation never; they always worked in desolation and
thunder. And so the road went on.

They came to a wide river. They went through a great forest. They
passed the ruins of what must have been quite fine towns, big
prosperous towns with universities in them. I saw the infantry working
party with their stumpy clay pipes, in my dream, a long way on from
where that shell had lit, which stopped the road for a day. And behind
them curious changes came over the road at X. You saw the infantry
going up to the trenches, and going back along it into reserve. They
marched at first, but in a few days they were going up in motors, grey
busses with shuttered windows. And then the guns came along it, miles
and miles of guns, following after the thunder which was further off
over the hills. And then one day the cavalry came by. Then stores in
wagons, the thunder muttering further and further away. I saw
farm-carts going down the road at X. And then one day all manner of
horses and traps and laughing people, farmers and women and boys all
going by to X. There was going to be a fair.

And far away the road was growing longer and longer amidst, as always,
desolation and thunder. And one day far away from X the road grew very
fine indeed. It was going proudly through a mighty city, sweeping in
like a river; you would not think that it ever remembered duck-boards.
There were great palaces there, with huge armorial eagles blazoned in
stone, and all along each side of the road was a row of statues of
kings. And going down the road towards the palace, past the statues of
the kings, a tired procession was riding, full of the flags of the
Allies. And I looked at the flags in my dream, out of national pride
to see whether we led, or whether France or America. America went
before us, but I could not see the Union Jack in the van nor the
Tricolour either, nor the Stars and Stripes: Belgium led and then
Serbia, they that had suffered most.

And before the flags, and before the generals, I saw marching along on
foot the ghosts of the working party that were killed at X, gazing
about them in admiration as they went, at the great city and at the
palaces. And one man, wondering at the Siges Alle, turned round to
the Lance Corporal in charge of the party: ``That is a fine road that
we made, Frank,'' he said.

An Imperial Monument

It is an early summer's morning: the dew is all over France: the train
is going eastwards. They are quite slow, those troop trains, and there
are few embankments or cuttings in those flat plains, so that you seem
to be meandering along through the very life of the people. The roads
come right down to the railways, and the sun is shining brightly over
the farms and the people going to work along the roads, so that you
can see their faces clearly as the slow train passes them by.

They are all women and boys that work on the farms; sometimes perhaps
you see a very old man, but nearly always women and boys; they are out
working early. They straighten up from their work as we go by and lift
their hands to bless us.

We pass by long rows of the tall French poplars, their branches cut
away all up the trunk, leaving only an odd round tuft at the top of
the tree; but little branches are growing all up the trunk now, and
the poplars are looking unkempt. It would be the young men who would
cut the branches of the poplars. They would cut them for some useful
thrifty purpose that I do not know; and then they would cut them
because they were always cut that way, as long ago as the times of the
old men's tales about France; but chiefly, I expect, because youth
likes to climb difficult trees; that is why they are clipped so very
high. And the trunks are all unkempt now.

We go on by many farms with their shapely red-roofed houses; they
stand there, having the air of the homes of an ancient people; they
would not be out of keeping with any romance that might come, or any
romance that has come in the long story of France, and the girls of
those red-roofed houses work all alone in the fields.

We pass by many willows and come to a great marsh. In a punt on some
open water an old man is angling. We come to fields again, and then to
a deep wood. France smiles about us in the open sunlight.

But towards evening we pass over the border of this pleasant country
into a tragical land of destruction and gloom. It is not only that
murder has walked here to and fro for years, until all the fields are
ominous with it, but the very fields themselves have been mutilated
until they are unlike fields, the woods have been shattered right down
to the anemones, and the houses have been piled in heaps of rubbish,
and the heaps of rubbish have been scattered by shells. We see no more
trees, no more houses, no more women, no cattle even now. We have come
to the abomination of desolation. And over it broods, and will
probably brood for ever, accursed by men and accursed by the very
fields, the hyena-like memory of the Kaiser, who has whitened so many
bones.

It may be some satisfaction to his selfishness to know that the
monument to it cannot pass away, to know that the shell holes go too
deep to be washed away by the healing rains of years, to know that the
wasted German generations will not in centuries gather up what has
been spilt on the Somme, or France recover in the sunshine of many
summers from all the misery that his devilish folly has caused. It is
likely to be to such as him a source of satisfaction, for the truly
vain care only to be talked of in many mouths; they hysterically love
to be thought of, and the notice of mankind is to them a mirror which
reflects their futile postures. The admiration of fools they love, and
the praise of a slavelike people, but they would sooner be hated by
mankind than be ignored and forgotten as is their due. And the truly
selfish care only for their imperial selves.

Let us leave him to pass in thought from ruin to ruin, from wasted
field to field, from crater to crater; let us leave his fancy haunting
cemeteries in the stricken lands of the world, to find what glee he
can in this huge manifestation of his imperial will.

We neither know to what punishment he moves nor can even guess what
fitting one is decreed. But the time is surely appointed and the
place. Poor trifler with Destiny, who ever had so much to dread?

A Walk to the Trenches

To stand at the beginning of a road is always wonderful; for on all
roads before they end experience lies, sometimes adventure. And a
trench, even as a road, has its beginnings somewhere. In the heart of
a very strange country you find them suddenly. A trench may begin in
the ruins of a house, may run up out of a ditch; may be cut into a
rise of ground sheltered under a hill, and is built in many ways by
many men. As to who is the best builder of trenches there can be
little doubt, and any British soldier would probably admit that for
painstaking work and excellence of construction there are few to rival
Von Hindenburg. His Hindenburg line is a model of neatness and
comfort, and it would be only a very ungrateful British soldier who
would deny it.

You come to the trenches out of strangely wasted lands, you come
perhaps to a wood in an agony of contortions, black, branchless,
sepulchral trees, and then no more trees at all. The country after
that is still called Picardy or Belgium, still has its old name on the
map as though it smiled there yet, sheltering cities and hamlet and
radiant with orchards and gardens, but the country named Belgium -- or
whatever it be -- is all gone away, and there stretches for miles
instead one of the world's great deserts, a thing to take its place no
longer with smiling lands, but with Sahara, Gobi, Kalahari, and the
Karoo; not to be thought of as Picardy, but more suitably to be named
the Desert of Wilhelm. Through these sad lands one goes to come to the
trenches. Overhead floats until it is chased away an aroplane with
little black crosses, that you can scarcely see at his respectful
height, peering to see what more harm may be done in the desolation
and ruin. Little flashes sparkle near him, white puffs spread out
round the flashes: and he goes, and our airmen go away after him;
black puffs break out round our airmen. Up in the sky you hear a faint
tap-tapping. They have got their machine guns working.

You see many things there that are unusual in deserts: a good road, a
railway, perhaps a motor bus; you see what was obviously once a
village, and hear English songs, but no one who has not seen it can
imagine the country in which the trenches lie, unless he bear a desert
clearly in mind, a desert that has moved from its place on the map by
some enchantment of wizardry, and come down on a smiling country.
Would it not be glorious to be a Kaiser and be able to do things like
that?

Past all manner of men, past no trees, no hedges, no fields, but only
one field from skyline to skyline that has been harrowed by war, one
goes with companions that this event in our history has drawn from all
parts of the earth. On that road you may hear all in one walk where is
the best place to get lunch in the City; you may hear how they laid a
drag for some Irish pack, and what the Master said; you may hear a
farmer lamenting over the harm that rhinoceroses do to his coffee
crop; you may hear Shakespeare quoted and La vie Parisienne.

In the village you see a lot of German orders, with their silly notes
of exclamation after them, written up on notice boards among the
ruins. Ruins and German orders. That turning movement of Von Kluck's
near Paris in 1914 was a mistake. Had he not done it we might have had
ruins and German orders everywhere. And yet Von Kluck may comfort
himself with the thought that it is not by his mistakes that Destiny
shapes the world: such a nightmare as a world-wide German domination
can have had no place amongst the scheme of things.

Beyond the village the batteries are thick. A great howitzer near the
road lifts its huge muzzle slowly, fires and goes down again, and
lifts again and fires. It is as though Polyphemus had lifted his huge
shape slowly, leisurely, from the hillside where he was sitting, and
hurled the mountain top, and sat down again. If he is firing pretty
regularly you are sure to get the blast of one of them as you go by,
and it can be a very strong wind indeed. One's horse, if one is
riding, does not very much like it, but I have seen horses far more
frightened by a puddle on the road when coming home from hunting in
the evening: one 12-inch howitzer more or less in France calls for no
great attention from man or beast.

And so we come in sight of the support trenches where we are to dwell
for a week before we go on for another mile over the hills, where the
black fountains are rising.

A Walk in Picardy

Picture any village you know. In such a village as that the trench
begins. That is to say, there are duck-boards along a ditch, and the
ditch runs into a trench. Only the village is no longer there. It was
like some village you know, though perhaps a little merrier, because
it was further south and nearer the sun; but it is all gone now. And
the trench runs out of the ruins, and is called Windmill Avenue. There
must have been a windmill standing there once.

When you come from the ditch to the trench you leave the weeds and
soil and trunks of willows and see the bare chalk. At the top of those
two white walls is a foot or so of brown clay. The brown clay grows
deeper as you come to the hills, until the chalk has disappeared
altogether. Our alliance with France is new in the history of man, but
it is an old, old union in the history of the hills. White chalk with
brown clay on top has dipped and gone under the sea; and the hills of
Sussex and Kent are one with the hills of Picardy.

And so you may pass through the chalk that lies in that desolate lane
with memories of more silent and happier hills; it all depends on what
the chalk means to you: you may be unfamiliar with it and in that case
you will not notice it; or you may have been born among those
thyme-scented hills and yet have no errant fancies, so that you will
not think of the hills that watched you as a child, but only keep your
mind on the business in hand; that is probably best.

You come after a while to other trenches: notice boards guide you, and
you keep to Windmill Avenue. You go by Pear Lane, Cherry Lane, and
Plum Lane. Pear trees, cherry trees and plum trees must have grown
there. You are passing through either wild lanes banked with briar,
over which these various trees peered one by one and showered their
blossoms down at the end of spring, and girls would have gathered the
fruit when it ripened, with the help of tall young men; or else you
are passing through an old walled garden, and the pear and the cherry
and plum were growing against the wall, looking southwards all through
the summer. There is no way whatever of telling which it was; it is
all one in war; whatever was there is gone; there remain to-day, and
survive, the names of those three trees only. We come next to Apple
Lane. You must not think that an apple tree ever grew there, for we
trace here the hand of the wit, who by naming Plum Lane's neighbour
``Apple Lane'' merely commemorates the inseparable connection that
plum has with apple forever in the minds of all who go to modern war.
For by mixing apple with plum the manufacturer sees the opportunity of
concealing more turnip in the jam, as it were, at the junction of the
two forces, than he might be able to do without this unholy alliance.

We come presently to the dens of those who trouble us (but only for
our own good), the dugouts of the trench mortar batteries. It is noisy
when they push up close to the front line and play for half an hour or
so with their rivals: the enemy sends stuff back, our artillery join
in; it is as though, while you were playing a game of croquet, giants
hundreds of feet high, some of them friendly, some unfriendly,
carnivorous and hungry, came and played football on your croquet lawn.

We go on past Battalion Headquarters, and past the dugouts and
shelters of various people having business with History, past stores
of bombs and the many other ingredients with which history is made,
past men coming down who are very hard to pass, for the width of two
men and two packs is the width of a communication trench and sometimes
an inch over; past two men carrying a flying pig slung on a pole
between them; by many turnings; and Windmill Avenue brings you at last
to Company Headquarters in a dugout that Hindenburg made with his
German thoroughness.

And there, after a while, descends the Tok Emma man, the officer
commanding a trench mortar battery, and is given perchance a whiskey
and water, and sits on the best empty box that we have to offer, and
lights one of our cigarettes.

``There's going to be a bit of a strafe at 5.30,'' he says.

What Happened on the Night of the Twenty-Seventh

The night of the twenty-seventh was Dick Cheeser's first night on
sentry. The night was far gone when he went on duty; in another hour
they would stand to. Dick Cheeser had camouflaged his age when he
enlisted: he was barely eighteen. A wonderfully short time ago he was
quite a little boy; now he was in a frontline trench. It hadn't seemed
that things were going to alter like that. Dick Cheeser was a plowboy:
long brown furrows over haughty, magnificent downs seemed to stretch
away into the future as far as his mind could see. No narrow outlook
either, for the life of nations depends upon those brown furrows. But
there are the bigger furrows that Mars makes, the long brown trenches
of war; the life of nations depends on these too; Dick Cheeser had
never pictured these. He had heard talk about a big navy and a lot of
Dreadnoughts; silly nonsense he called it. What did one want a big
navy for? To keep the Germans out, some people said. But the Germans
weren't coming. If they wanted to come, why didn't they come? Anybody
could see that they never did come. Some of Dick Cheeser's pals had
votes.

And so he had never pictured any change from plowing the great downs;
and here was war at last, and here was he. The Corporal showed him
where to stand, told him to keep a good lookout and left him.

And there was Dick Cheeser alone in the dark with an army in front of
him, eighty yards away: and, if all tales were true, a pretty horrible
army.

The night was awfully still. I use the adverb not as Dick Cheeser
would have used it. The stillness awed him. There had not been a shell
all night. He put his head up over the parapet and waited. Nobody
fired at him. He felt that the night was waiting for him. He heard
voices going along the trench: some one said it was a black night: the
voices died away. A mere phrase; the night wasn't black at all, it was
grey. Dick Cheeser was staring at it, and the night was staring back
at him, and seemed to be threatening him; it was grey, grey as an old
cat that they used to have at home, and as artful. Yes, thought Dick
Cheeser, it was an artful night; that was what was wrong with it. If
shells had come or the Germans, or anything at all, you would know how
to take it; but that quiet mist over huge valleys, and stillness!
Anything might happen. Dick waited and waited, and the night waited
too. He felt they were watching each other, the night and he. He felt
that each was crouching. His mind slipped back to the woods on hills
he knew. He was watching with eyes and ears and imagination to see
what would happen in No Man's Land under that ominous mist: but his
mind took a peep for all that at the old woods that he knew. He
pictured himself, he and a band of boys, chasing squirrels again in
the summer. They used to chase a squirrel from tree to tree, throwing
stones, till they tired it: and then they might hit it with a stone:
usually not. Sometimes the squirrel would hide, and a boy would have
to climb after it. It was great sport, thought Dick Cheeser. What a
pity he hadn't had a catapult in those days, he thought. Somehow the
years when he had not had a catapult seemed all to be wasted years.
With a catapult one might get the squirrel almost at once, with luck:
and what a great thing that would be. All the other boys would come
round to look at the squirrel, and to look at the catapult, and ask
him how he did it. He wouldn't have to say much, there would be the
squirrel; no boasting would be necessary with the squirrel lying dead.
It might spread to other things, even rabbits; almost anything, in
fact. He would certainly get a catapult first thing when he got home.
A little wind blew in the night, too cold for summer. It blew away, as
it were, the summer of Dick's memories; blew away hills and woods and
squirrel. It made for a moment a lane in the mist over No Man's Land.
Dick Cheeser peered down it, but it closed again. ``No,'' Night seemed
to say, ``you don't guess my secret.'' And the awful hush intensified.
``What would they do?'' thought the sentry. ``What were they planning
in all those miles of silence?'' Even the Verys were few. When one
went up, far hills seemed to sit and brood over the valley: their
black shapes seemed to know what would happen in the mist and seemed
sworn not to say. The rocket faded, and the hills went back into
mystery again, and Dick Cheeser peered level again over the ominous
valley.

All the dangers and sinister shapes and evil destinies, lurking
between the armies in that mist, that the sentry faced that night
cannot be told until the history of the war is written by a historian
who can see the mind of the soldier. Not a shell fell all night, no
German stirred; Dick Cheeser was relieved at ``Stand to'' and his
comrades stood to beside him, and soon it was wide, golden, welcome
dawn.

And for all the threats of night the thing that happened was one that
the lonely sentry had never foreseen: in the hour of his watching Dick
Cheeser, though scarcely eighteen, became a full-grown man.

Standing To

One cannot say that one time in the trenches is any more tense than
another. One cannot take any one particular hour and call it, in
modern nonsensical talk, ``typical hour in the trenches.'' The routine
of the trenches has gone on too long for that. The tensest hour ought
to be half an hour before dawn, the hour when attacks are expected and
men stand to. It is an old convention of war that that is the
dangerous hour, the hour when defenders are weakest and attack most to
be feared. For darkness favours the attackers then as night favours
the lion, and then dawn comes and they can hold their gains in the
light. Therefore in every trench in every war the garrison is prepared
in that menacing hour, watching in greater numbers than they do the
whole night through. As the first lark lifts from meadows they stand
there in the dark. Whenever there is any war in any part of the world
you may be sure that at that hour men crowd to their parapets: when
sleep is deepest in cities they are watching there.

When the dawn shimmers a little, and a grey light comes, and widens,
and all of a sudden figures become distinct, and the hour of the
attack that is always expected is gone, then perhaps some faint
feeling of gladness stirs the newest of the recruits; but chiefly the
hour passes like all the other hours there, an unnoticed fragment of
the long, long routine that is taken with resignation mingled with
jokes.

Dawn comes shy with a wind scarce felt, dawn faint and strangely
perceptible, feeble and faint in the east while men still watch the
darkness. When did the darkness go? When did the dawn grow golden? It
happened as in a moment, a moment you did not see. Guns flash no
longer: the sky is gold and serene; dawn stands there like Victory
that will shine, on one of these years when the Kaiser goes the way of
the older curses of earth. Dawn, and the men unfix bayonets as they
step down from the fire-step and clean their rifles with
pull-throughs. Not all together, but section by section, for it would
not do for a whole company to be caught cleaning their rifles at dawn,
or at any other time.

They rub off the mud or the rain that has come at night on their
rifles, they detach the magazine and see that its spring is working,
they take out the breechblock and oil it, and put back everything
clean: and another night is gone; it is one day nearer victory.

The Splendid Traveller

A traveller threw his cloak over his shoulder and came down slopes of
gold in El Dorado. From incredible heights he came. He came from where
the peaks of the pure gold mountain shone a little red with the
sunset; from crag to crag of gold he stepped down slowly. Sheer out of
romance he came through the golden evening.

It was only an incident of every day; the sun had set or was setting,
the air turned chill, and a battalion's bugles were playing
``Retreat'' when this knightly stranger, a British aroplane, dipped,
and went homeward over the infantry. That beautiful evening call, and
the golden cloud bank towering, and that adventurer coming home in the
cold, happening all together, revealed in a flash the fact (which
hours of thinking sometimes will not bring) that we live in such a
period of romance as the troubadours would have envied.

He came, that British airman, over the border, sheer over No Man's
Land and the heads of the enemy and the mysterious land behind,
snatching the secrets that the enemy would conceal. Either he had
defeated the German airmen who would have stopped his going, or they
had not dared to try. Who knows what he had done? He had been abroad
and was coming home in the evening, as he did every day.

Even when all its romance has been sifted from an age (as the
centuries sift) and set apart from the trivial, and when all has been
stored by the poets; even then what has any of them more romantic than
these adventurers in the evening air, coming home in the twilight with
the black shells bursting below?

The infantry look up with the same vague wonder with which children
look at dragon flies; sometimes they do not look at all, for all that
comes in France has its part with the wonder of a terrible story as
well as with the incidents of the day, incidents that recur year in
and year out, too often for us to notice them. If a part of the moon
were to fall off in the sky and come tumbling to earth, the comment on
the lips of the imperturbable British watchers that have seen so much
would be, ``Hullo, what is Jerry up to now?''

And so the British aroplane glides home in the evening, and the light
fades from the air, and what is left of the poplars grows dark against
the sky, and what is left of the houses grows more mournful in the
gloaming, and night comes, and with it the sounds of thunder, for the
airman has given his message to the artillery. It is as though Hermes
had gone abroad sailing upon his sandals, and had found some bad land
below those winged feet wherein men did evil and kept not the laws of
gods or men; and he had brought this message back and the gods were
angry.

For the wars we fight to-day are not like other wars, and the wonders
of them are unlike other wonders. If we do not see in them the saga
and epic, how shall we tell of them?

England

``And then we used to have sausages,'' said the Sergeant.

``And mashed?'' said the Private.

``Yes,'' said the Sergeant, ``and beer. And then we used to go home.
It was grand in the evenings. We used to go along a lane that was full
of them wild roses. And then we come to the road where the houses
were. They all had their bit of a garden, every house.''

``Nice, I calls it, a garden,'' the Private said.

``Yes,'' said the Sergeant, ``they all had their garden. It came right
down to the road. Wooden palings: none of that there wire.''

``I hates wire,'' said the Private.

``They didn't have none of it,'' the N. C. O. went on. ``The gardens
came right down to the road, looking lovely. Old Billy Weeks he had
them tall pale-blue flowers in his garden nearly as high as a man.''

``Hollyhocks?'' said the Private.

``No, they wasn't hollyhocks. Lovely they were. We used to stop and
look at them, going by every evening. He had a path up the middle of
his garden paved with red tiles, Billy Weeks had; and these tall blue
flowers growing the whole way along it, both sides like. They was a
wonder. Twenty gardens there must have been, counting them all; but
none to touch Billy Weeks with his pale-blue flowers. There was an old
windmill away to the left. Then there were the swifts sailing by
overhead and screeching: just about as high again as the houses. Lord,
how them birds did fly. And there was the other young fellows, what
were not out walking, standing about by the roadside, just doing
nothing at all. One of them had a flute: Jim Booker, he was. Those
were great days. The bats used to come out, flutter, flutter, flutter;
and then there'd be a star or two; and the smoke from the chimneys
going all grey; and a little cold wind going up and down like the
bats; and all the colour going out of things; and the woods looking
all strange, and a wonderful quiet in them, and a mist coming up from
the stream. It's a queer time that. It's always about that time, the
way I see it: the end of the evening in the long days, and a star or
two, and me and my girl going home.

``Wouldn't you like to talk about things for a bit the way you
remember them?''

``Oh, no, Sergeant,'' said the other, ``you go on. You do bring it all
back so.''

``I used to bring her home,'' the Sergeant said, ``to her father's
house. Her father was keeper there, and they had a house in the wood.
A fine house with queer old tiles on it, and a lot of large friendly
dogs. I knew them all by name, same as they knew me. I used to walk
home then along the side of the wood. The owls would be about; you
could hear them yelling. They'd float out of the wood like, sometimes:
all large and white.''

``I knows them,'' said the Private.

``I saw a fox once so close I could nearly touch him, walking like he
was on velvet. He just slipped out of the wood.''

``Cunning old brute,'' said the Private.

``That's the time to be out,'' said the Sergeant. ``Ten o'clock on a
summer's night, and the night full of noises, not many of them, but
what there is, strange, and coming from a great way off, through the
quiet, with nothing to stop them. Dogs barking, owls hooting, an old
cart; and then just once a sound that you couldn't account for at all,
not anyhow. I've heard sounds on nights like that that nobody 'ud
think you'd heard, nothing like the flute that young Booker had,
nothing like anything on earth.''

``I know,'' said the Private.

``I never told any one before, because they wouldn't believe you. But
it doesn't matter now. There'd be a light in the window to guide me
when I got home. I'd walk up through the flowers of our garden. We had
a lovely garden. Wonderful white and strange the flowers looked of a
nighttime.''

``You bring it all back wonderful,'' said the Private.

``It's a great thing to have lived,'' said the Sergeant.

``Yes, Sergeant,'' said the other, ``I wouldn't have missed it, not
for anything.''

For five days the barrage had rained down behind them: they were
utterly cut off and had no hope of rescue: their food was done, and
they did not know where they were.

Shells

When the aroplanes are home and the sunset has flared away, and it is
cold, and night comes down over France, you notice the guns more than
you do by day, or else they are actually more active then, I do not
know which it is.

It is then as though a herd of giants, things of enormous height, came
out from lairs in the earth and began to play with the hills. It is as
though they picked up the tops of the hills in their hands and then
let them drop rather slowly. It is exactly like hills falling. You see
the flashes all along the sky, and then that lumping thump as though
the top of the hill had been let drop, not all in one piece, but
crumbled a little as it would drop from your hands if you were three
hundred feet high and were fooling about in the night, spoiling what
it had taken so long to make. That is heavy stuff bursting, a little
way off.

If you are anywhere near a shell that is bursting, you can hear in it
a curious metallic ring. That applies to the shells of either side,
provided that you are near enough, though usually of course it is the
hostile shell and not your own that you are nearest to, and so one
distinguishes them. It is curious, after such a colossal event as this
explosion must be in the life of a bar of steel, that anything should
remain at all of the old bell-like voice of the metal, but it appears
to, if you listen attentively; it is perhaps its last remonstrance
before leaving its shape and going back to rust in the earth again for
ages.

Another of the voices of the night is the whine the shell makes in
coming; it is not unlike the cry the hyena utters as soon as it's dark
in Africa: ``How nice traveller would taste,'' the hyena seems to say,
and ``I want dead White Man.'' It is the rising note of the shell as
it comes nearer, and its dying away when it has gone over, that make
it reminiscent of the hyena's method of diction. If it is not going
over then it has something quite different to say. It begins the same
as the other, it comes up, talking of the back areas with the same
long whine as the other. I have heard old hands say ``That one is
going well over.'' ``Whee-oo,'' says the shell; but just where the
``oo'' should be long drawn out and turn into the hyena's final
syllable, it says something quite different. ``Zarp,'' it says. That
is bad. Those are the shells that are looking for you.

And then of course there is the whizz-bang coming from close, along
his flat trajectory: he has little to say, but comes like a sudden
wind, and all that he has to do is done and over at once.

And then there is the gas shell, who goes over gurgling gluttonously,
probably in big herds, putting down a barrage. It is the liquid inside
that gurgles before it is turned to gas by the mild explosion; that is
the explanation of it; yet that does not prevent one picturing a tribe
of cannibals who have winded some nice juicy men and are smacking
their chops and dribbling in anticipation.

And a wonderful thing to see, even in those wonderful nights, is our
thermite bursting over the heads of the Germans. The shell breaks into
a shower of golden rain; one cannot judge easily at night how high
from the ground it breaks, but about as high as the tops of trees seen
at a hundred yards. It spreads out evenly all round and rains down
slowly; it is a bad shower to be out in, and for a long time after it
has fallen, the sodden grass of winter, and the mud and old bones
beneath it, burn quietly in a circle. On such a night as this, and in
such showers, the flying pigs will go over, which take two men to
carry each of them; they go over and root right down to the German
dugout, where the German has come in out of the golden rain, and they
fling it all up in the air.

These are such nights as Scheherazade with all her versatility never
dreamed of; or if such nightmares came she certainly never told of
them, or her august master, the Sultan, light of the age, would have
had her at once beheaded; and his people would have deemed that he did
well. It has been reserved for a modern autocrat to dream such a
nightmare, driven to it perhaps by the tales of a white-whiskered
Scheherazade, the Lord of the Kiel Canal; and being an autocrat he has
made the nightmare a reality for the world. But the nightmare is
stronger than its master, and grows mightier every night; and the
All-Highest War Lord learns that there are powers in Hell that are
easily summoned by the rulers of earth, but that go not easily home.

Two Degrees of Envy

It was night in the front line and no moon, or the moon was hidden.
There was a strafe going on. The Tok Emmas were angry. And the
artillery on both sides were looking for the Tok Emmas.

Tok Emma, I may explain for the blessed dwellers in whatever far happy
island there be that has not heard of these things, is the crude
language of Mars. He has not time to speak of a trunk mortar battery,
for he is always in a hurry, and so he calls them T. M.'s. But Bellona
might not hear him saying T. M., for all the din that she makes: might
think that he said D. N; and so he calls it Tok Emma. Ak, Beer, C,
Don: this is the alphabet of Mars.

And the huge minnies were throwing old limbs out of No Man's Land into
the frontline trench, and shells were rasping down through the air
that seemed to resist them until it was torn to pieces: they burst and
showers of mud came down from heaven. Aimlessly, as it seemed, shells
were bursting now and then in the air, with a flash intensely red: the
smell of them was drifting down the trenches.

In the middle of all this Bert Butterworth was hit. ``Only in the
foot,'' his pals said. ``Only!'' said Bert. They put him on a
stretcher and carried him down the trench. They passed Bill
Britterling, standing in the mud, an old friend of Bert's. Bert's
face, twisted with pain, looked up to Bill for some sympathy.

``Lucky devil,'' said Bill.

Across the way on the other side of No Man's Land there was mud the
same as on Bill's side: only the mud over there stank; it didn't seem
to have been kept clean somehow. And the parapet was sliding away in
places, for working parties had not had much of a chance. They had
three Tok Emmas working in that battalion front line, and the British
batteries did not quite know where they were, and there were eight of
them looking.

Fritz Groedenschasser, standing in that unseemly mud, greatly yearned
for them to find soon what they were looking for. Eight batteries
searching for something they can't find, along a trench in which you
have to be, leaves the elephant hunter's most desperate tale a little
dull and insipid. Not that Fritz Groedenschasser knew anything about
elephant hunting: he hated all things sporting, and cordially approved
of the execution of Nurse Cavell. And there was thermite too.
Flammenwerfer was all very well, a good German weapon: it could burn a
man alive at twenty yards. But this accursed flaming English thermite
could catch you at four miles. It wasn't fair.

The three German trench mortars were all still firing. When would the
English batteries find what they were looking for, and this awful
thing stop? The night was cold and smelly.

Fritz shifted his feet in the foul mud, but no warmth came to him that
way.

A gust of shells was coming along the trench. Still they had not found
the minnewerfer! Fritz moved from his place altogether to see if he
could find some place where the parapet was not broken. And as he
moved along the sewerlike trench he came on a wooden cross that marked
the grave of a man he once had known, now buried some days in the
parapet, old Ritz Handelscheiner.

``Lucky devil,'' said Fritz.

The Master of No Man's Land

When the last dynasty has fallen and the last empire passed away, when
man himself has gone, there will probably still remain the swede. [The
rutabaga or Swedish turnip.]

There grew a swede in No Man's Land by Croisille near the Somme, and
it had grown there for a long while free from man.

It grew as you never saw a swede grow before. It grew tall and strong
and weedy. It lifted its green head and gazed round over No Man's
Land. Yes, man was gone, and it was the day of the swede.

The storms were tremendous. Sometimes pieces of iron sang through its
leaves. But man was gone and it was the day of the swede.

A man used to come there once, a great French farmer, an oppressor of
swedes. Legends were told of him and his herd of cattle, dark
traditions that passed down vegetable generations. It was somehow
known in those fields that the man ate swedes.

And now his house was gone and he would come no more.

The storms were terrible, but they were better than man. The swede
nodded to his companions: the years of freedom had come.

They had always known among them that these years would come. Man had
not been there always, but there had always been swedes. He would go
some day, suddenly, as he came. That was the faith of the swedes. And
when the trees went the swede believed that the day was come. When
hundreds of little weeds arrived that were never allowed before, and
grew unchecked, he knew it.

After that he grew without any care, in sunlight, moonlight and rain;
grew abundantly and luxuriantly in the freedom, and increased in
arrogance till he felt himself greater than man. And indeed in those
leaden storms that sang often over his foliage all living things
seemed equal.

There was little that the Germans left when they retreated from the
Somme that was higher than this swede. He grew the tallest thing for
miles and miles. He dominated the waste. Two cats slunk by him from a
shattered farm: he towered above them contemptuously.

A partridge ran by him once, far, far below his lofty leaves. The
night winds mourning in No Man's Land seemed to sing for him alone.

It was surely the hour of the swede. For him, it seemed, was No Man's
Land. And there I met him one night by the light of a German rocket
and brought him back to our company to cook.

Weeds and Wire

Things had been happening. Divisions were moving. There had been,
there was going to be, a stunt. A battalion marched over the hill and
sat down by the road. They had left the trenches three days march to
the north and had come to a new country. The officers pulled their
maps out; a mild breeze fluttered them; yesterday had been winter and
to-day was spring; but spring in a desolation so complete and
far-reaching that you only knew of it by that little wind. It was
early March by the calendar, but the wind was blowing out of the gates
of April. A platoon commander, feeling that mild wind blowing, forgot
his map and began to whistle a tune that suddenly came to him out of
the past with the wind. Out of the past it blew and out of the South,
a merry vernal tune of a Southern people. Perhaps only one of those
that noticed the tune had ever heard it before. An officer sitting
near had heard it sung; it reminded him of a holiday long ago in the
South.

``Where did you hear that tune?'' he asked the platoon commander.

``Oh, the hell of a long way from here,'' the platoon commander said.

He did not remember quite where it was he had heard it, but he
remembered a sunny day in France and a hill all dark with pine woods,
and a man coming down at evening out of the woods, and down the slope
to the village, singing this song. Between the village and the slope
there were orchards in blossom. So that he came with his song for
hundreds of yards through orchards. ``The hell of a way from here,''
he said.

For a long while then they sat silent.

``It mightn't have been so very far from here,'' said the platoon
commander. ``It was in France, now I come to think of it. But it was a
lovely part of France, all woods and orchards. Nothing like this,
thank God.'' And he glanced with a tired look at the unutterable
desolation.

``Where was it?'' said the other.

``In Picardy,'' he said.

``Aren't we in Picardy now?'' said his friend.

``Are we?'' he said.

``I don't know. The maps don't call it Picardy.''

``It was a fine place, anyway,'' the platoon commander said. ``There
seemed always to be a wonderful light on the hills. A kind of short
grass grew on them, and it shone in the sun at evening. There were
black woods above them. A man used to come out of them singing at
evening.''

He looked wearily round at the brown desolation of weeds. As far as
the two officers could see there was nothing but brown weeds and bits
of brown barbed wire. He turned from the desolate scene back to his
reminiscences.

``He came singing through the orchards into the village,'' he said.
``A quaint old place with queer gables, called Ville-en-Bois.''

``Do you know where we are?'' said the other.

``No, said the platoon commander.''

``I thought not,'' he said. ``Hadn't you better take a look at the
map?''

``I suppose so,'' said the platoon commander, and he smoothed out his
map and wearily got to the business of finding out where he was.

``Good Lord!'' he said. ``Ville-en-Bois!''

Spring in England and Flanders

Very soon the earliest primroses will be coming out in woods wherever
they have been sheltered from the north. They will grow bolder as the
days go by, and spread and come all down the slopes of sunny hills.
Then the anemones will come, like a shy pale people, one of the tribes
of the elves, who dare not leave the innermost deeps of the wood: in
those days all the trees will be in leaf, the bluebells will follow,
and certain fortunate woods will shelter such myriads of them that the
bright fresh green of the beech trees will flash between two blues,
the blue of the sky and the deeper blue of the bluebells. Later the
violets come, and such a time as this is the perfect time to see
England: when the cuckoo is heard and he surprises his hearers; when
evenings are lengthening out and the bat is abroad again; and all the
flowers are out and all the birds sing. At such a time not only Nature
smiles but our quiet villages and grave old spires wake up from winter
in the mellow air and wear their centuries lightly. At such a time you
might come just at evening on one of those old villages in a valley
and find it in the mood to tell you the secret of the ages that it hid
and treasured there before the Normans came. Who knows? For they are
very old, very wise, very friendly; they might speak to you one warm
evening. If you went to them after great suffering they might speak to
you; after nights and nights of shelling over in France, they might
speak to you and you might hear them clearly.

It would be a long, long story that they would tell, all about the
ages; and it would vary wonderfully little, much less perhaps than we
think; and the repetitions rambling on and on in the evening, as the
old belfry spoke and the cottages gathered below it, might sound so
soothing after the boom of shells that perhaps you would nearly sleep.
And then with one's memory tired out by the war one might never
remember the long story they told, when the belfry and the
brown-roofed houses all murmured at evening, might never remember even
that they had spoken all through that warm spring and evening. We may
have heard them speak and forgotten that they have spoken. Who knows?
We are at war, and see so many strange things: some we must forget,
some we must remember; and we cannot choose which.

To turn from Kent to Flanders is to turn to a time of mourning through
all seasons alike. Spring there brings out no leaf on myriad oaks, nor
the haze of green that floats like a halo above the heads of the birch
trees, that stand with their fairylike trunks haunting the deeps of
the woods. For miles and miles and miles summer ripens no crops, leads
out no maidens laughing in the moonlight, and brings no harvest home.
When Autumn looks on orchards in all that region of mourning he looks
upon barren trees that will never blossom again. Winter drives in no
sturdy farmers at evening to sit before cheery fires, families meet
not at Christmas, and the bells are dumb in belfries; for all by which
a man might remember his home has been utterly swept away: has been
swept away to make a maniacal dancing ground on which a murderous
people dance to their death led by a shallow, clever, callous,
imperial clown.

There they dance to their doom till their feet shall find the
precipice that was prepared for them on the day that they planned the
evil things they have done.

The Nightmare Countries

There are certain lands in the darker dreams of poetry that stand out
in the memory of generations. There is for instance Poe's ``Dark tarn
of Auber, the ghoul-haunted region of Weir''; there are some queer
twists in the river Alph as imagined by Coleridge; two lines of
Swinburne:

By the tideless dolorous inland sea
In a land of sand and ruin and gold

are as haunting as any. There are in literature certain regions of
gloom, so splendid that whenever you come on them they leave in the
mind a sort of nightmare country which one's thoughts revisit on
hearing the lines quoted.

It is pleasant to picture such countries sometimes when sitting before
the fire. It is pleasant because you can banish them by the closing of
a book; a puff of smoke from a pipe will hide them altogether, and
back come the pleasant, wholesome, familiar things. But in France they
are there always. In France the nightmare countries stand all night in
the starlight; dawn comes and they still are there. The dead are
buried out of sight and others take their places among men; but the
lost lands lie unburied gazing up at the winds; and the lost woods
stand like skeletons all grotesque in the solitude; the very seasons
have fled from them. The very seasons have fled; so that if you look
up to see whether summer has turned to autumn, or if autumn has turned
to winter yet, nothing remains to show you. It is like the eccentric
dream of some strange man, very arresting and mysterious, but lacking
certain things that should be there before you can recognize it as
earthly. It is a mad, mad landscape. There are miles and miles and
miles of it. It is the biggest thing man has done. It looks as though
man in his pride, with all his clever inventions, had made for himself
a sorry attempt at creation.

Indeed when we trace it all back to its origin we find at the
beginning of this unhappy story a man who was only an emperor and
wished to be something more. He would have ruled the world but has
only meddled with it; and his folly has brought misery to millions,
and there lies his broken dream on the broken earth. He will never
take Paris now. He will never be crowned at Versailles as Emperor of
Europe; and after that, most secret dream of all, did not the Csars
proclaim themselves divine? Was it not whispered among Macedonian
courtiers that Alexander was the child of God? And was the
Hohenzollern less than these?

What might not force accomplish? All gone now, that dream and the
Hohenzollern line broken. A maniacal dream and broken farms all mixed
up together: they make a pretty nightmare and the clouds still gleam
at night with the flashes of shells, and the sky is still troubled by
day with uncouth balloons and the black bursts of the German shells
and the white of our anti-aircraft.

And below there lies this wonderful waste land where no girls sing,
and where no birds come but starlings; where no hedgerows stand, and
no lanes with wild roses, and where no pathways run through fields of
wheat, and there are no fields at all and no farms and no farmers; and
two haystacks stand on a hill I know, undestroyed in the desolation,
and nobody touches them for they know the Germans too well; and the
tops have been blown off hills down to the chalk. And men say of this
place that it is Pozires and of that place that it is Ginchy; nothing
remains to show that hamlets stood there at all, and a brown, brown
weed grows over it all for ever; and a mighty spirit has arisen in
man, and no one bows to the War Lord though many die. And Liberty is
she who sang her songs of old, and is fair as she ever was, when men
see her in visions, at night in No Man's Land when they have the
strength to crawl in: still she walks of a night in Pozires and in
Ginchy.

A fanciful man once called himself the Emperor of the Sahara: the
German Kaiser has stolen into a fair land and holds with weakening
hands a land of craters and weed, and wire and wild cabbages and old
German bones.

Spring and the Kaiser

While all the world is waiting for Spring there lie great spaces in
one of the pleasantest lands to which Spring cannot come.

Pear trees and cherry and orchards flash over other lands, blossoming
as abundantly as though their wonder were new, with a beauty as fresh
and surprising as though nothing like it before had ever adorned
countless centuries. Now with the larch and soon with the beech trees
and hazel, a bright green blazes forth to illumine the year. The
slopes are covered with violets. Those who have gardens are beginning
to be proud of them and to point them out to their neighbours. Almond
and peach in blossom peep over old brick walls. The land dreams of
summer all in the youth of the year.

But better than all this the Germans have found war. The simple
content of a people at peace in pleasant countries counted for nothing
with them. Their Kaiser prepared for war, made speeches about war,
and, when he was ready, made war. And now the hills that should be
covered with violets are full of murderous holes, and the holes are
half full of empty meat tins, and the garden walls have gone and the
gardens with them, and there are no woods left to shelter anemones.
Boundless masses of brown barbed wire straggle over the landscape. All
the orchards there are cut down out of ruthless spite to hurt France
whom they cannot conquer. All the little trees that grow near gardens
are gone, aspen, laburnum and lilac. It is like this for hundreds of
miles. Hundreds of ruined towns gaze at it with vacant windows and see
a land from which even Spring is banished. And not a ruined house in
all the hundred towns but mourns for some one, man, woman or child;
for the Germans make war equally on all in the land where Spring comes
no more.

Some day Spring will come back; some day she will shine all April in
Picardy again, for Nature is never driven utterly forth, but comes
back with her seasons to cover up even the vilest things.

She shall hide the raw earth of the shell holes till the violets come
again; she shall bring back even the orchards for Spring to walk in
once more; the woods will grow tall again above the southern anemones;
and the great abandoned guns of the Germans will rust by the rivers of
France. Forgotten like them, the memory of the War Lord will pass with
his evil deeds.

Two Songs

Over slopes of English hills looking south in the time of violets,
evening was falling.

Shadows at edges of woods moved, and then merged in the gloaming.

The bat, like a shadow himself, finding that spring was come, slipped
from the dark of the wood as far as a clump of beech trees and
fluttered back again on his wonderful quiet wings.

Pairing pigeons were home.

Very young rabbits stole out to gaze at the calm still world. They
came out as the stars come. At one time they were not there, and then
you saw them, but you did not see them come.

Towering clouds to the west built palaces, cities and mountains;
bastions of rose and precipices of gold; giants went home over them
draped in mauve by steep rose-pink ravines into emerald-green empires.
Turbulences of colour broke out above the departed sun; giants merged
into mountains, and cities became seas, and new processions of other
fantastic things sailed by. But the chalk slopes facing south smiled
on with the same calm light, as though every blade of grass gathered a
ray from the gloaming. All the hills faced the evening with that same
quiet glow, which faded softly as the air grew colder; and the first
star appeared.

Voices came up in the hush, clear from the valley, and ceased. A light
was lit, like a spark, in a distant window: more stars appeared and
the woods were all dark now, and shapes even on the hill slopes began
to grow indistinct.

Home by a laneway in the dim, still evening a girl was going, singing
the Marseillaise.

In France where the downs in the north roll away without hedges, as
though they were great free giants that man had never confined, as
though they were stretching their vast free limbs in the evening, the
same light was smiling and glimmering softly away.

A road wound over the downs and away round one of their shoulders. A
hush lay over them as though the giants slept, or as though they
guarded in silence their ancient, wonderful history.

The stillness deepened and the dimness of twilight; and just before
colours fade, while shapes can still be distinguished, there came by
the road a farmer leading his Norman horse. High over the horse's
withers his collar pointed with brass made him fantastic and huge and
strange to see in the evening.

They moved together through that mellow light towards where unseen
among the clustered downs the old French farmer's house was sheltered
away.

He was going home at evening humming ``God Save the King.''

The Punishment

An exhalation arose, drawn up by the moon, from an old battlefield
after the passing of years. It came out of very old craters and
gathered from trenches, smoked up from No Man's Land, and the ruins of
farms; it rose from the rottenness of dead brigades, and lay for half
the night over two armies; but at midnight the moon drew it up all
into one phantom and it rose and trailed away eastwards.

It passed over men in grey that were weary of war; it passed over a
land once prosperous, happy and mighty, in which were a people that
were gradually starving; it passed by ancient belfries in which there
were no bells now; it passed over fear and misery and weeping, and so
came to the palace at Potsdam. It was the dead of the night between
midnight and dawn, and the palace was very still that the Emperor
might sleep, and sentries guarded it who made no noise and relieved
others in silence. Yet it was not so easy to sleep. Picture to
yourself a murderer who had killed a man. Would you sleep? Picture
yourself the man that planned this war! Yes, you sleep, but nightmares
come.

The phantom entered the chamber. ``Come,'' it said.

The Kaiser leaped up at once as obediently as when he came to
attention on parade, years ago, as a subaltern in the Prussian Guard,
a man whom no woman or child as yet had ever cursed; he leaped up and
followed. They passed the silent sentries; none challenged and none
saluted; they were moving swiftly over the town as the felon Gothas
go; they came to a cottage in the country. They drifted over a little
garden gate, and there in a neat little garden the phantom halted like
a wind that has suddenly ceased. ``Look,'' it said.

Should he look? Yet he must look. The Kaiser looked; and saw a window
shining and a neat room in the cottage: there was nothing dreadful
there; thank the good German God for that; it was all right, after
all. The Kaiser had had a fright, but it was all right; there was only
a woman with a baby sitting before the fire, and two small children
and a man. And it was quite a jolly room. And the man was a young
soldier; and, why, he was a Prussian Guardsman, -- there was his
helmet hanging on the wall, -- so everything was all right. They were
jolly German children; that was well. How nice and homely the room
was. There shone before him, and showed far off in the night, the
visible reward of German thrift and industry. It was all so tidy and
neat, and yet they were quite poor people. The man had done his work
for the Fatherland, and yet beyond all that had been able to afford
all those little knickknacks that make a home so pleasant and that in
their humble little way were luxury. And while the Kaiser looked the
two young children laughed as they played on the floor, not seeing
that face at the window.

Why! Look at the helmet. That was lucky. A bullet hole right through
the front of it. That must have gone very close to the man's head. How
ever did it get through? It must have glanced upwards as bullets
sometimes do. The hole was quite low in the helmet. It would be
dreadful to have bullets coming by close like that. The firelight
flickered, and the lamp shone on, and the children played on the
floor, and the man was smoking out of a china pipe; he was strong and
able and young, one of the wealth-winners of Germany.

``Have you seen?'' said the phantom.

``Yes,'' said the Kaiser. It was well, he thought, that a Kaiser
should see how his people lived.

At once the fire went out and the lamp faded away, the room fell
sombrely into neglect and squalor, and the soldier and the children
faded away with the room; all disappeared phantasmally, and nothing
remained but the helmet in a kind of glow on the wall, and the woman
sitting all by herself in the darkness.

``It has all gone,'' said the Kaiser.

``It has never been,'' said the phantom.

The Kaiser looked again. Yes, there was nothing there, it was just a
vision. There were the grey walls all damp and uncared for, and that
helmet standing out solid and round, like the only real thing among
fancies. No, it had never been. It was just a vision.

``It might have been,'' said the phantom.

Might have been? How might it have been?

``Come,'' said the phantom.

They drifted away down a little lane that in summer would have had
roses, and came to an Uhlan's house; in times of peace a small farmer.
Farm buildings in good repair showed even in the night, and the black
shapes of haystacks; again a well-kept garden lay by the house. The
phantom and the Kaiser stood in the garden; before them a window
glowed in a lamplit room.

``Look,'' said the phantom.

The Kaiser looked again and saw a young couple; the woman played with
a baby, and all was prosperous in the merry room. Again the hard-won
wealth of Germany shone out for all to see, the cosy comfortable
furniture spoke of acres well cared for, spoke of victory in the
struggle with the seasons on which wealth of nations depends.

``It might have been,'' said the phantom. Again the fire died out and
the merry scene faded away, leaving a melancholy, ill-kept room, with
poverty and mourning haunting dusty corners and the woman sitting
alone.

``Why do you show me this?'' said the Kaiser. ``Why do you show me
these visions?''

``Come,'' said the phantom.

``What is it?'' said the Kaiser. ``Where are you bringing me?''

``Come,'' said the phantom.

They went from window to window, from land to land. You had seen, had
you been out that night in Germany, and able to see visions, an
imperious figure passing from place to place, looking on many scenes.
He looked on them, and families withered away, and happy scenes faded,
and the phantom said to him ``Come.'' He expostulated but obeyed; and
so they went from window to window of hundreds of farms in Prussia,
till they came to the Prussian border and went on into Saxony; and
always you would have heard, could you hear spirits speak, ``It might
have been,'' ``It might have been,'' repeated from window to window.

They went down through Saxony, heading for Austria. And for long the
Kaiser kept that callous, imperious look. But at last he, even he, at
last he nearly wept. And the phantom turned then and swept him back
over Saxony, and into Prussia again and over the sentries' heads, back
to his comfortable bed where it was so hard to sleep.

And though they had seen thousands of merry homes, homes that can
never be merry now, shrines of perpetual mourning; though they had
seen thousands of smiling German children, who will never be born now,
but were only the visions of hopes blasted by him; for all the leagues
over which he had been so ruthlessly hurried, dawn was yet barely
breaking.

He had looked on the first few thousand homes of which he had robbed
all time, and which he must see with his eyes before he may go hence.
The first night of the Kaiser's punishment was accomplished.

The English Spirit

By the end of the South African war Sergeant Cane had got one thing
very well fixed in his mind, and that was that war was an overrated
amusement. He said he ``was fed up with it,'' partly because that
misused metaphor was then new, partly because every one was saying it:
he felt it right down in his bones, and he had a long memory. So when
wonderful rumours came to the East Anglian village where he lived, on
August 1, 1914, Sergeant Cane said: ``That means war,'' and decided
then and there to have nothing to do with it: it was somebody else's
turn; he felt he had done enough. Then came August 4th, and England
true to her destiny, and then Lord Kitchener's appeal for men.
Sergeant Cane had a family to look after and a nice little house: he
had left the army ten years.

In the next week all the men went who had been in the army before, all
that were young enough, and a good sprinkling of the young men too who
had never been in the army. Men asked Cane if he was going, and he
said straight out ``No.''

By the middle of August Cane was affecting the situation. He was a
little rallying point for men who did not want to go. ``He knows what
it's like,'' they said.

In the smoking room of the Big House sat the Squire and his son, Arthur
Smith; and Sir Munion Boomer-Platt, the Member for the division. The
Squire's son had been in the last war as a boy, and like Sergeant Cane
had left the army since. All the morning he had been cursing an
imaginary general, seated in the War Office at an imaginary desk with
Smith's own letter before him, in full view but unopened. Why on earth
didn't he answer it, Smith thought. But he was calmer now, and the
Squire and Sir Munion were talking of Sergeant Cane.

``Leave him to me,'' said Sir Munion.

``Very well,'' said the Squire. So Sir Munion Boomer-Platt went off
and called on Sergeant Cane.

Mrs Cane knew what he had come for.

``Don't let him talk you over, Bill,'' she said.

``Not he,'' said Sergeant Cane.

Sir Munion came on Sergeant Cane in his garden.

``A fine day,'' said Sir Munion. And from that he went on to the war.
``If you enlist,'' he said, ``they will make you a sergeant again at
once. You will get a sergeant's pay, and your wife will get the new
separation allowance.''

``Sooner have Cane,'' said Mrs Cane.

``Yes, yes, of course,'' said Sir Munion. ``But then there is the
medal, probably two or three medals, and the glory of it, and it is
such a splendid life.''

Sir Munion did warm to a thing whenever he began to hear his own
words. He painted war as it has always been painted, one of the most
beautiful things you could imagine. And then it mustn't be supposed
that it was like those wars that there used to be, a long way off.
There would be houses where you would be billeted, and good food, and
shady trees and villages wherever you went. And it was such an
opportunity of seeing the Continent (``the Continent as it really
is,'' Sir Munion called it) as would never come again, and he only
wished he were younger. Sir Munion really did wish it, as he spoke,
for his own words stirred him profoundly; but somehow or other they
did not stir Sergeant Cane. No, he had done his share, and he had a
family to look after.

Sir Munion could not understand him: he went back to the Big House and
said so. He had told him all the advantages he could think of that
were there to be had for the asking, and Sergeant Cane merely
neglected them.

``Let me have a try,'' said Arthur Smith. ``He soldiered with me
before.''

Sir Munion shrugged his shoulders. He had all the advantages at his
fingers' ends, from pay to billeting: there was nothing more to be
said. Nevertheless young Smith went.

``Hullo, Sergeant Cane,'' said Smith.

``Hello, sir,'' said the sergeant.

``Do you remember that night at Reit River?''

``Don't I, sir,'' said Cane.

``One blanket each and no ground sheet?''

``I remember, sir,'' said Cane.

``Didn't it rain,'' said Smith.

``It rained that night, proper.''

``Drowned a few of the lice, I suppose.''

``Not many,'' said Cane.

``No, not many,'' Smith reflected. ``The Boers had the range all right
that time.''

``Gave it us proper,'' said Cane.

``We were hungry that night,'' said Smith. ``I could have eaten
biltong.''

``I did eat some of it,'' said Cane. ``Not bad stuff, what there was
of it, only not enough.''

``I don't think,'' said Smith, ``that I've ever slept on the bare
earth since.''

``No, sir?'' said Cane. ``It's hard. You get used to it. But it will
always be hard.''

``Yes, it will always be hard,'' said Smith. ``Do you remember the
time we were thirsty?''

``Oh, yes, sir,'' said Cane, ``I remember that. One doesn't forget
that.''

``No. I still dream of it sometimes,'' said Smith. ``It makes a nasty
dream. I wake with my mouth all dry too, when I dream that.''

``Yes,'' said Cane, ``one doesn't forget being thirsty.''

``Well,'' said Smith, ``I suppose we're for it all over again?''

``I suppose so, sir,'' said Cane.

An Investigation Into the Causes and Origin of the War

The German imperial barber has been called up. He must have been
called up quite early in the war. I have seen photographs in papers
that leave no doubt of that. Who he is I do not know: I once read his
name in an article but have forgotten it; few even know if he still
lives. And yet what harm he has done! What vast evils he has
unwittingly originated! Many years ago he invented a frivolity, a jeu
d'esprit easily forgivable to an artist in the heyday of his youth, to
whom his art was new and even perhaps wonderful. A craft, of course,
rather than an art, and a humble craft at that; but then, the man was
young, and what will not seem wonderful to youth?

He must have taken the craft very seriously, but as youth takes things
seriously, fantastically and with laughter. He must have determined to
outshine rivals: he must have gone away and thought, burning candles
late perhaps, when all the palace was still. But how can youth think
seriously? And there had come to him this absurd, this fantastical
conceit. What else would have come? The more seriously he took the
tonsorial art, the more he studied its tricks and phrases and heard
old barbers lecture, the more sure were the imps of youth to prompt
him to laughter and urge him to something outrageous and ridiculous.
The background of the dull pomp of Potsdam must have made all this
more certain. It was bound to come.

And so one day, or, as I have suggested, suddenly late one night,
there came to the young artist bending over tonsorial books that
quaint, mad, odd, preposterous inspiration. Ah, what pleasure there is
in the madness of youth; it is not like the madness of age, clinging
to outworn formul; it is the madness of breaking away, of galloping
among precipices, of dallying with the impossible, of courting the
absurd. And this inspiration, it was in none of the books; the
lecturer barbers had not lectured on it, could not dream of it and did
not dare to; there was no tradition for it, no precedent; it was mad;
and to introduce it into the pomp of Potsdam, that was the daring of
madness. And this preposterous inspiration of the absurd young
barber-madman was nothing less than a moustache that without any curve
at all, or any suggestion of sanity, should go suddenly up at the ends
very nearly as high as the eyes!

He must have told his young fellow craftsmen first, for youth goes
first to youth with its hallucinations. And they, what could they have
said? You cannot say of madness that it is mad, you cannot call
absurdity absurd. To have criticized would have revealed jealousy; and
as for praise you could not praise a thing like that. They probably
shrugged, made gestures; and perhaps one friend warned him. But you
cannot warn a man against a madness; if the madness is in possession
it will not be warned away: why should it? And then perhaps he went to
the old barbers of the Court. You can picture their anger. Age does
not learn from youth in any case. But there was the insult to their
ancient craft, bad enough if only imagined, but here openly spoken of.
And what would come of it? They must have feared, on the one hand,
dishonour to their craft if this young barber were treated as his
levity deserved; and, on the other hand, could they have feared his
success? I think they could not have guessed it.

And then the young idiot with his preposterous inspiration must have
looked about to see where he could practise his new absurdity. It
should have been enough to have talked about it among his fellow
barbers; they would have gone with new zest to their work next day for
this delirious interlude, and no harm would have been done. ``Fritz,''
(or Hans) they would have said, ``was a bit on last night, a bit full
up,'' or whatever phrase they use to touch on drunkenness; and the
thing would have been forgotten. We all have our fancies. But this
young fool wanted to get his fancy mixed up with practice: that's
where he was mad. And in Potsdam, of all places.

He probably tried his friends first, young barbers at the Court and
others of his own standing. None of them were fools enough to be seen
going about like that. They had jobs to lose. A Court barber is one
thing, a man who cuts ordinary hair is quite another. Why should they
become outcasts because their friend chose to be mad?

He probably tried his inferiors then, but they would have been timid
folk; they must have seen the thing was absurd, and of course daren't
risk it. Again, why should they?

Did he try to get some noble then to patronize his invention? Probably
the first refusals he had soon inflamed his madness more, and he threw
caution insanely to the winds, and went straight to the Emperor.

It was probably about the time that the Emperor dismissed Bismarck;
certainly the drawings of that time show him still with a sane
moustache.

The young barber probably chanced on him in this period, finding him
bereft of an adviser, and ready to be swayed by whatever whim should
come. Perhaps he was attracted by the barber's hardihood, perhaps the
absurdity of his inspiration had some fascination for him, perhaps he
merely saw that the thing was new and, feeling jaded, let the barber
have his way. And so the frivolity became a fact, the absurdity became
visible, and honour and riches came the way of the barber.

A small thing, you might say, however fantastical. And yet I believe
the absurdity of that barber to be among the great evils that have
brought death nearer to man; whimsical and farcical as it was, yet a
thing deadlier than Helen's beauty or Tamerlane's love of skulls. For
just as character is outwardly shown so outward things react upon the
character; and who, with that daring barber's ludicrous fancy visible
always on his face, could quite go the sober way of beneficent
monarchs? The fantasy must be mitigated here, set off there; had you
such a figure to dress, say for amateur theatricals, you would realize
the difficulty. The heavy silver eagle to balance it; the glittering
cuirass lower down, preventing the eye from dwelling too long on the
barber's absurdity. And then the pose to go with the cuirass and to
carry off the wild conceit of that mad, mad barber. He has much to
answer for, that eccentric man whose name so few remember. For pose
led to actions; and just when Europe most needed a man of wise
counsels, restraining the passions of great empires, just then she had
ruling over Germany and, unhappily, dominating Austria, a man who
every year grew more akin to the folly of that silly barber's youthful
inspiration.

Let us forgive the barber. For long I have known from pictures that I
have seen of the Kaiser that he has gone to the trenches. Probably he
is dead. Let us forgive the barber. But let us bear in mind that the
futile fancies of youth may be deadly things, and that one of them
falling on a fickle mind may so stir its shallows as to urge it to
disturb and set in motion the avalanches of illimitable grief.

Lost

Describing a visit, say the papers of March 28th, which the Kaiser
paid incognito to Cologne Cathedral on March 18th before the great
battle, the Cologne correspondent of the Tyd says:

There were only a few persons in the building. Under high arches
and in spacious solitude the Kaiser sat, as if in deep thought,
before the priests' choir. Behind him his military staff stood
respectfully at a distance. Still musing as he rose, the monarch
resting both hands on his walking-stick remains standing immovable
for some minutes... I shall never forget this picture of the musing
monarch praying in Cologne Cathedral on the eve of the great
battle.

Probably he won't forget it. The German casualty lists will help to
remind him. But what is more to the point is that this expert
propagandist has presumably received orders that we are not to forget
it, and that the sinister originator of the then impending holocaust
should be toned down a little in the eyes at least of the Tyd to
something a little more amiable.

And no doubt the little piece of propaganda gave every satisfaction to
those who ordered it, or they would not have passed it out to the Tyd,
and the touching little scene would never have reached our eyes. At
the same time the little tale would have been better suited to the
psychology of other countries if he had made the War Lord kneel when
he prayed in Cologne Cathedral, and if he had represented the Military
Staff as standing out of respect to One who, outside Germany, is held
in greater respect than the All Highest.

And had the War Lord really knelt is it not possible that he might
have found pity, humility, or even contrition? Things easily
overlooked in so large a cathedral when sitting erect, as a War Lord,
before the priests' choir, but to be noticed perhaps with one's eyes
turned to the ground.

Perhaps he nearly found one of those things. Perhaps he felt (who
knows?) just for a moment, that in the dimness of those enormous
aisles was something he had lost a long, long while ago.

One is not mistaken to credit the very bad with feeling far, faint
appeals from things of glory like Cologne Cathedral; it is that the
appeals come to them too far and faint on their headlong descent to
ruin.

For what was the War Lord seeking? Did he know that pity for his poor
slaughtered people, huddled by him on to our ceaseless machine guns,
might be found by seeking there? Or was it only that the lost thing,
whatever it was, made that faint appeal to him, passing the door by
chance, and drew him in, as the scent of some herb or flower in a
moment draws us back years to look for something lost in our youth; we
gaze back, wondering, and do not find it.

And to think that perhaps he lost it by very little! That, but for
that proud attitude and the respectful staff, he might have seen what
was lost, and have come out bringing pity for his people. Might have
said to the crowd that gave him that ovation, as we read, outside the
door: ``My pride has driven you to this needless war, my ambition has
made a sacrifice of millions, but it is over, and it shall be no more;
I will make no more conquests.''

They would have killed him. But for that renunciation, perhaps,
however late, the curses of the widows of his people might have kept
away from his grave.

But he did not find it. He sat at prayer. Then he stood. Then he
marched out: and his staff marched out behind him. And in the gloom of
the floor of the vast Cologne Cathedral lie the things that the Kaiser
did not find and never will find now. Unnoticed thus, and in some
silent moment, passes a man's last chance.

The Last Mirage

The desolation that the German offensive has added to the dominions of
the Kaiser cannot easily be imagined by any one who has never seen a
desert. Look at it on the map and it is full of the names of towns and
villages; it is in Europe, where there are no deserts; it is a fertile
province among places of famous names. Surely it is a proud addition
to an ambitious monarch's possessions. Surely there is something there
that it is worth while to have conquered at the cost of army corps.
No, nothing. They are mirage towns. The farms grow Dead Sea fruit.
France recedes before the imperial clutch. France smiles, but not for
him. His new towns seem to be his because their names have not yet
been removed from any map, but they crumble at his approach because
France is not for him. His deadly ambition makes a waste before it as
it goes, clutching for cities. It comes to them and the cities are not
there.

I have seen mirages and have heard others told of, but the best
mirages of all we never hear described; the mirage that waterless
travellers see at the last. Those fountains rising out of onyx basins,
blue and straight into incredible heights, and falling and flooding
cool white marble; the haze of spray above their feathery heads
through which the pale green domes of weathered copper shimmer and
shake a little; mysterious temples, the tombs of unknown kings; the
cataracts coming down from rose-quartz cliffs, far off but seen quite
clearly, growing to rivers bearing curious barges to the golden courts
of Sahara. These things we never see; they are seen at the last by men
who die of thirst.

Even so has the Kaiser looked at the smiling plains of France. Even so
has he looked on her famous ancient cities and the farms and the
fertile fields and the woods and orchards of Picardy. With effort and
trouble he has moved towards them. As he comes near to them the cities
crumble, the woods shrivel and fall, the farms fade out of Picardy,
even the hedgerows go; it is bare, bare desert. He had been sure of
Paris, he had dreamed of Versailles and some monstrous coronation, he
had thought his insatiable avarice would be sated. For he had plotted
for conquest of the world, that boundless greed of his goading him on
as a man in the grip of thirst broods upon lakes.

He sees victory near him now. That also will fade in the desert of old
barbed wire and weeds. When will he see that a doom is over all his
ambitions? For his dreams of victory are like those last dreams that
come in deceptive deserts to dying men.

There is nothing good for him in the desert of the Somme. Bapaume is
not really there, though it be marked on his maps; it is only a
wilderness of slates and brick. Peronne looks like a city a long way
off, but when you come near it is only the shells of houses. Pozire,
Le Sars, Sapigny, are gone altogether.

And all is Dead Sea fruit in a visible desert. The reports of German
victories there are mirage like all the rest; they too will fade into
weeds and old barbed wire.

And the advances that look like victories, and the ruins that look
like cities, and the shell-beaten broken fields that look like farms,
-- they and the dreams of conquest and all the plots and ambitions,
they are all the mirage of a dying dynasty in a desert it made for its
doom.

Bones lead up to the desert, bones are scattered about it, it is the
most menacing and calamitous waste of all the deadly places that have
been inclement to man. It flatters the Hohenzollerns with visions of
victory now because they are doomed by it and are about to die. When
their race has died the earth shall smile again, for their deadly
mirage shall oppress us no more. The cities shall rise again and the
farms come back; hedgerows and orchards shall be seen again; the woods
shall slowly lift their heads from the dust; and gardens shall come
again where the desert was, to bloom in happier ages that forget the
Hohenzollerns.

A Famous Man

Last winter a famous figure walked in Behagnies. Soldiers came to see
him from their billets all down the Arras road, from Ervillers and
from Sapigny, and from the ghosts of villages back from the road,
places that once were villages but are only names now. They would walk
three or four miles, those who could not get lorries, for his was one
of those names that all men know, not such a name as a soldier or poet
may win, but a name that all men know. They used to go there at
evening.

Four miles away on the left as you went from Ervillers, the guns
mumbled over the hills, low hills over which the Verys from the
trenches put up their heads and peered around, -- greeny, yellowy
heads that turned the sky sickly, and the clouds lit up and went grey
again all the night long. As you got near to Behagnies you lost sight
of the Verys, but the guns mumbled on. A silly little train used to
run on one's left, which used to whistle loudly, as though it asked to
be shelled, but I never saw a shell coming its way; perhaps it knew
that the German gunners could not calculate how slow it went. It
crossed the road as you got down to Behagnies.

You passed the graves of two or three German soldiers with their names
on white wooden crosses, -- men killed in 1914; and then a little
cemetery of a French cavalry regiment, where a big cross stood in the
middle with a wreath and a tricolor badge, and the names of the men.
And then one saw trees. That was always a wonder, whether one saw
their dark shapes in the evening, or whether one saw them by day, and
knew from the look of their leaves whether autumn had come yet, or
gone. In winter at evening one just saw the black bulk of them, but
that was no less marvellous than seeing them green in summer; trees by
the side of the Arras-Bapaume road, trees in mid-desert in the awful
region of Somme. There were not many of them, just a cluster, fewer
than the date palms in an oasis in Sahara, but an oasis is an oasis
wherever you find it, and a few trees make it. There are little places
here and there, few enough as the Arabs know, that the Sahara's deadly
sand has never been able to devastate; and there are places even in
the Somme that German malice, obeying the Kaiser as the sand of Sahara
obeys the accursed sirocco, has not been able to destroy quite to the
uttermost. That little cluster of trees at Behagnies is one of these;
Divisional Headquarters used to shelter beneath them; and near them
was a statue on a lawn which probably stood by the windows of some
fine house, though there is no trace of the house but the lawn and
that statue now.

And over the way on the left a little further on, just past the
officers' club, a large hall stood where one saw that famous figure,
whom officers and men alike would come so far to see.

The hall would hold perhaps four or five hundred seats in front of a
stage fitted up very simply with red, white and blue cloths, but
fitted up by some one that understood the job; and at the back of that
stage on those winter evenings walked on his flat and world-renowned
feet the figure of Charlie Chaplin.

When aroplanes came over bombing, the dynamos used to stop for they
supplied light to other places besides the cinema, and the shade of
Charlie Chaplin would fade away. But the men would wait till the
aroplanes had gone and that famous figure came waddling back to the
screen. There he amused tired men newly come from the trenches, there
he brought laughter to most of the twelve days that they had out of
the line.

He is gone from Behagnies now. He did not march in the retreat a
little apart from the troops, with head bent forward and hand thrust
in jacket, a flat-footed Napoleon: yet he is gone; for no one would
have left behind for the enemy so precious a thing as a Charlie
Chaplin film. He is gone but he will return. He will come with his
cane one day along that Arras road to the old hut in Behagnies; and
men dressed in brown will welcome him there again.

He will pass beyond it through those desolate plains, and over the
hills beyond them, beyond Bapaume. Far hamlets to the east will know
his antics.

And one day surely, in old familiar garb, without court dress, without
removing his hat, armed with that flexible cane, he will walk over the
faces of the Prussian Guard and, picking up the Kaiser by the collar,
with infinite nonchalance in finger and thumb, will place him neatly
in a prone position and solemnly sit on his chest.

The Oases of Death

While the German guns were pounding Amiens and the battle of dull
Prussianism against Liberty raged on, they buried Richthofen in the
British lines.

They had laid him in a large tent with his broken machine outside it.
Thence British airmen carried him to the quiet cemetery, and he was
buried among the cypresses in this old resting place of French
generations just as though he had come there bringing no harm to
France.

Five wreaths were on his coffin, placed there by those who had fought
against him up in the air. And under the wreaths on the coffin was
spread the German flag.

When the funeral service was over three volleys were fired by the
escort, and a hundred aviators paid their last respects to the grave
of their greatest enemy; for the chivalry that the Prussians have
driven from earth and sea lives on in the blue spaces of the air.

They buried Richthofen at evening, and the planes came droning home as
they buried him, and the German guns roared on and guns answered,
defending Amiens. And in spite of all, the cemetery had the air of
quiet, remaining calm and aloof, as all French graveyards are. For
they seem to have no part in the cataclysm that shakes all the world
but them; they seem to withdraw amongst memories and to be aloof from
time, and, above all, to be quite untroubled by the war that rages
to-day, upon which they appear to look out listlessly from among their
cypress and yew, and dimly, down a vista of centuries. They are very
strange, these little oases of death that remain unmoved and green
with their trees still growing, in the midst of a desolation as far as
the eye can see, in which cities and villages and trees and hedges and
farms and fields and churches are all gone, and where hugely broods a
desert. It is as though Death, stalking up and down through France for
four years, sparing nothing, had recognized for his own his little
gardens, and had spared only them.

Anglo-Saxon Tyranny

``We need a sea,'' says Big-Admiral von Tirpitz, ``freed of
Anglo-Saxon tyranny.'' Unfortunately neither the British Admiralty nor
the American Navy permit us to know how much of the Anglo-Saxon
tyranny is done by American destroyers and how much by British ships
and even trawler. It would interest both countries to know, if it
could be known. But the Big-Admiral is unjust to France, for the
French navy exerts a tyranny at sea that can by no means be
overlooked, although naturally from her position in front of the mouth
of the Elbe England practises the culminating insupportable tyranny of
keeping the High Seas Fleet in the Kiel Canal.

It is not I, but the Big-Admiral, who chose the word tyranny as
descriptive of the activities of the Anglo-Saxon navies. He was making
a speech at Dusseldorf on May 25th and was reported in the
Dusseldorfer Nachrichten on May 27th.

Naturally it does not seem like tyranny to us, even the contrary; but
for an admiral, ein Grosse-Admiral, lately commanding a High Seas
Fleet, it must have been more galling than we perhaps can credit to be
confined in a canal. There was he, who should have been breasting the
blue, or at any rate doing something salty and nautical, far out in
the storms of that sea that the Germans call an Ocean, with the
hurricane raging angrily in his whiskers and now and then wafting
tufts of them aloft to white the halyards; there was he constrained to
a command the duties of which however nobly he did them could be
equally well carried out by any respectable bargee. He hoped for a
piracy of which the Lusitania was merely a beginning; he looked for
the bombardment of innumerable towns; he pictured slaughter in many a
hamlet of fishermen; he planned more than all those things of which
U-boat commanders are guilty; he saw himself a murderous old man,
terrible to seafarers, and a scourge of the coasts, and fancied
himself chronicled in after years by such as told dark tales of
Captain Kidd or the awful buccaneers; but he followed in the end no
more desperate courses than to sit and watch his ships on a wharf near
Kiel like one of Jacob's night watchmen.

No wonder that what appears to us no more than the necessary
protection of women and children in seacoast towns from murder should
be to him an intolerable tyranny. No wonder that the guarding of
travellers of the allied countries at sea, and even those of the
neutrals, should be a most galling thing to the Big-Admiral's thwarted
ambition, looking at it from the point of view of one who to
white-whiskered age has retained the schoolboy's natural love of the
black and yellow flag. A pirate, he would say, has as much right to
live as wasps or tigers. The Anglo-Saxon navies, he might argue, have
a certain code of rules for use at sea; they let women get first into
the boats, for instance, when ships are sinking, and they rescue
drowning mariners when they can: no actual harm in all this, he would
feel, though it would weaken you, as Hindenburg said of poetry; but if
all these little rules are tyrannously enforced on those who may think
them silly, what is to become of the pirate? Where, if people like
Beattie and Sims had always had their way, would be those rollicking
tales of the jolly Spanish Main, and men walking the plank into the
big blue sea, and long, low, rakish craft putting in to Indian
harbours with a cargo of men and women all hung from the yard-arm? A
melancholy has come over the spirit of Big-Admiral von Tirpitz in the
years he has spent in the marshes between the Elbe and Kiel, and in
that melancholy he sees romance crushed; he sees no more pearl
earrings and little gold rings in the hold, he sees British
battleships spoiling the Spanish Main, and hateful American cruisers
in the old Sargasso Sea; he sees himself, alas, the last of all the
pirates.

Let him take comfort. There were always pirates. And in spite of the
tyranny of England and America, and of France, which the poor old man
perplexed with his troubles forgot, there will be pirates still. Not
many perhaps, but enough U-boats will always be able to slip through
that tyrannous blockade to spread indiscriminate slaughter amongst the
travellers of any nation, enough to hand on the old traditions of
murder at sea. And one day Captain Kidd, with such a bow as they used
to make in ports of the Spanish Main, will take off his ancient hat,
sweeping it low in Hell, and be proud to clasp the hand of the Lord of
the Kiel Canal.

Memories

... far-off things
And battles long ago.

Those who live in an old house are necessarily more concerned with
paying the plumber, should his art be required, or choosing wall paper
that does not clash with the chintzes, than with the traditions that
may haunt its corridors. In Ireland, -- and no one knows how old that
is, for the gods that lived there before the Red Branch came wrote few
chronicles on the old grey Irish stones and wrote in their own
language, -- in Ireland we are more concerned with working it so that
Tim Flanagan gets the job he does be looking for.

But in America those who remember Ireland remember her, very often,
from old generations; maybe their grandfather migrated, perhaps his
grandfather, and Ireland is remembered by old tales treasured among
them. Now Tim Flanagan will not be remembered in a year's time when he
has the job for which he has got us to agitate, and the jobberies that
stir us move not the pen of History.

But the tales that Irish generations hand down beyond the Atlantic
have to be tales that are worth remembering. They are tales that have
to stand the supreme test, tales that a child will listen to by the
fireside of an evening, so that they go down with those early
remembered evenings that are last of all to go of the memories of a
lifetime. A tale that a child will listen to must have much grandeur.
Any cheap stuff will do for us, bad journalism, and novels by girls
that could get no other jobs; but a child looks for those things in a
tale that are simple and noble and epic, the things that Earth
remembers. And so they tell, over there, tales of Sarsfield and of the
old Irish Brigade; they tell, of an evening, of Owen Roe O'Neill. And
into those tales come the plains of Flanders again and the ancient
towns of France, towns famous long ago and famous yet: let us rather
think of them as famous names and not as the sad ruins we have seen,
melancholy by day and monstrous in the moonlight.

Many an Irishman who sails from America for those historic lands knows
that the old trees that stand there have their roots far down in soil
once richened by Irish blood. When the Boyne was lost and won, and
Ireland had lost her King, many an Irishman with all his wealth in a
scabbard looked upon exile as his sovereign's court. And so they came
to the lands of foreign kings, with nothing to offer for the
hospitality that was given them but a sword; and it usually was a
sword with which kings were well content. Louis XV had many of them,
and was glad to have them at Fontenoy; the Spanish King admitted them
to the Golden Fleece; they defended Maria Theresa. Landen in Flanders
and Cremona knew them. A volume were needed to tell of all those
swords; more than one Muse has remembered them. It was not disloyalty
that drove them forth; their King was gone, they followed, the oak was
smitten and brown were the leaves of the tree.

But no such mournful metaphor applies to the men who march to-day
towards the plains where the ``Wild Geese'' were driven. They go with
no country mourning them, but their whole land cheers them on; they go
to the inherited battlefields. And there is this difference in their
attitude to kings, that those knightly Irishmen of old, driven
homeless over-sea, appeared as exiles suppliant for shelter before the
face of the Grand Monarch, and he, no doubt with exquisite French
grace, gave back to them all they had lost except what was lost
forever, salving so far as he could the injustice suffered by each.
But to-day when might, for its turn, is in the hands of democracies,
the men whose fathers built the Statue of Liberty have left their
country to bring back an exiled king to his home, and to right what
can be righted of the ghastly wrongs of Flanders.

And if men's prayers are heard, as many say, old saints will hear old
supplications going up by starlight with a certain wistful, musical
intonation that has linked the towns of Limerick and Cork with the
fields of Flanders before.

The Movement

For many years Eliphaz Griggs was comparatively silent. Not that he
did not talk on all occasions whenever he could find hearers, he did
that at great length; but for many years he addressed no public
meeting, and was no part of the normal life of the northeast end of
Hyde Park or Trafalgar Square. And then one day he was talking in a
public house where he had gone to talk on the only subject that was
dear to him. He waited, as was his custom, until five or six men were
present, and then he began. ``Ye're all damned, I'm saying, damned
from the day you were born. Your portion is Tophet.''

And on that day there happened what had never happened in his
experience before. Men used to listen in a tolerant way, and say
little over their beer, for that is the English custom; and that would
be all. But to-day a man rose up with flashing eyes and went over to
Eliphaz and gripped him by the hand: ``They're all damned,'' said the
stranger.

That was the turning point in the life of Eliphaz. Up to that moment
he had been a lonely crank, and men thought he was queer; but now
there were two of them and he became a Movement. A Movement in England
may do what it likes: there was a Movement, before the War, for
spoiling tulips in Kew Gardens and breaking church windows; it had its
run like the rest.

The name of Eliphaz's new friend was Ezekiel Pim: and they drew up
rules for their Movement almost at once; and very soon country inns
knew Eliphaz no more. And for some while they missed him where he used
to drop in of an evening to tell them they were all damned: and then a
man proved one day that the earth was flat, and they all forgot
Eliphaz.

But Eliphaz went to Hyde Park and Ezekiel Pim went with him, and there
you would see them close to the Marble Arch on any fine Sunday
afternoon, preaching their Movement to the people of London. ``You are
all damned,'' said Eliphaz. ``Your portion shall be damnation for
everlasting.''

``All damned,'' added Ezekiel.

Eliphaz was the orator. He would picture Hell to you as it really is.
He made you see pretty much what it will be like to wriggle and turn
and squirm, and never escape from burning. But Ezekiel Pim, though he
seldom said more than three words, uttered those words with such
alarming sincerity and had such a sure conviction shining in his eyes
that searched right in your face as he said them, and his long hair
waved so weirdly as his head shot forward when he said ``You're all
damned,'' that Ezekiel Pim brought home to you that the vivid
descriptions of Eliphaz really applied to you.

People who lead bad lives get their sensibilities hardened. These did
not care very much what Eliphaz said. But girls at school, and several
governesses, and even some young clergy, were very much affected.
Eliphaz Griggs and Ezekiel Pim seemed to bring Hell so near to you.
You could almost feel it baking the Marble Arch from two to four on
Sundays. And at four o'clock the Surbiton Branch of the International
Anarchists used to come along, and Eliphaz Griggs and Ezekiel Pim
would pack up their flag and go, for the pitch belonged to the
Surbiton people till six; and the crank Movements punctiliously
recognize each other's rights. If they fought among themselves, which
is quite unthinkable, the police would run them in; it is the one
thing that an anarchist in England may never do.

When the War came the two speakers doubled their efforts. The way they
looked at it was that here was a counter-attraction taking people's
minds off the subject of their own damnation just as they had got them
to think about it. Eliphaz worked as he had never worked before; he
spared nobody; but it was still Ezekiel Pim who somehow brought it
most home to them.

One fine spring afternoon Eliphaz Griggs was speaking at his usual
place and time; he had wound himself up wonderfully. ``You are
damned,'' he was saying, ``for ever and ever and ever. Your sins have
found you out. Your filthy lives will be as fuel round you and shall
burn for ever and ever.''

``Look here,'' said a Canadian soldier in the crowd, ``we shouldn't
allow that in Ottawa.''

``What?'' asked an English girl.

``Why, telling us we're all damned like that,'' he said.

``Oh, this is England,'' she said. ``They may all say what they like
here.''

``You are all damned,'' said Ezekiel, jerking forward his head and
shoulders till his hair flapped out behind. ``All, all, all damned.''

``I'm damned if I am,'' said the Canadian soldier.

``Ah,'' said Ezekiel, and a sly look came into his face.

Eliphaz flamed on. ``Your sins are remembered. Satan shall grin at
you. He shall heap cinders on you for ever and ever. Woe to you,
filthy livers. Woe to you, sinners. Hell is your portion. There shall
be none to grieve for you. You shall dwell in torment for ages. None
shall be spared, not one. Woe everlasting... Oh, I beg pardon,
gentlemen, I'm sure.'' For the Pacifists' League had been kept waiting
three minutes. It was their turn to-day at four.

Nature's Cad

The claim of Professor Grotius Jan Beek to have discovered, or
learned, the language of the greater apes has been demonstrated
clearly enough. He is not the original discoverer of the fact that
they have what may be said to correspond with a language; nor is he
the first man to have lived for some while in the jungle protected by
wooden bars, with a view to acquiring some knowledge of the meaning of
the various syllables that gorillas appear to utter. If so crude a
collection of sounds, amounting to less than a hundred words, if words
they are, may be called a language, it may be admitted that the
Professor has learned it, as his recent experiments show. What he has
not proved is his assertion that he has actually conversed with a
gorilla, or by signs, or grunts, or any means whatever obtained an
insight, as he put it, into its mentality, or, as we should put it,
its point of view. This Professor Beek claims to have done; and though
he gives us a certain plausible corroboration of a kind which makes
his story appear likely, it should be borne in mind that it is not of
the nature of proof.

The Professor's story is briefly that having acquired this language,
which nobody that has witnessed his experiments will call in question,
he went back to the jungle for a week, living all the time in the
ordinary explorer's cage of the Blik pattern. Towards the very end of
the week a big male gorilla came by, and the Professor attracted it by
the one word ``Food.'' It came, he says, close to the cage, and seemed
prepared to talk but became very angry on seeing a man there, and beat
the cage and would say nothing. The Professor says that he asked it
why it was angry. He admits that he had learned no more than forty
words of this language, but believes that there are perhaps thirty
more. Much however is expressed, as he says, by mere intonation.
Anger, for instance; and scores of allied words, such as terrible,
frightful, kill, whether noun, verb or adjective, are expressed, he
says, by a mere growl. Nor is there any word for ``Why,'' but queries
are signified by the inflexion of the voice.

When he asked it why it was angry the gorilla said that men killed
him, and added a noise that the professor said was evidently meant to
allude to guns. The only word used, he says, in this remark of the
gorilla's was the word that signified ``man.'' The sentence as
understood by the professor amounted to ``Man kill me. Guns.'' But the
word ``kill'' was represented simply by a snarl, ``me'' by slapping
its chest, and ``guns'' as I have explained was only represented by a
noise. The Professor believes that ultimately a word for guns may be
evolved out of that noise, but thinks that it will take many
centuries, and that if during that time guns should cease to be in
use, this stimulus being withdrawn, the word will never be evolved at
all, nor of course will it be needed.

The Professor tried, by evincing interest, ignorance, and incredulity,
and even indignation, to encourage the gorilla to say more; but to his
disappointment, all the more intense after having exchanged that one
word of conversation with one of the beasts, the gorilla only repeated
what it had said, and beat on the cage again. For half an hour this
went on, the Professor showing every sign of sympathy, the gorilla
raging and beating upon the cage.

It was half an hour of the most intense excitement to the Professor,
during which time he saw the realization of dreams that many
considered crazy, glittering as it were within his grasp, and all the
while this ridiculous gorilla would do nothing but repeat the mere
shred of a sentence and beat the cage with its great hands; and the
heat of course was intense. And by the end of the half hour the
excitement and the heat seem to have got the better of the Professor's
temper, and he waved the disgusting brute angrily away with a gesture
that probably was not much less impatient than the gorilla's own. And
at that the animal suddenly became voluble. He beat more furiously
than ever upon the cage and slipped his great fingers through the
bars, trying to reach the Professor, and poured out volumes of
ape-chatter.

Why, why did men shoot at him, he asked. He made himself terrible,
therefore men ought to love him. That was the whole burden of what the
Professor calls its argument. ``Me, me terrible,'' two slaps on the
chest and then a growl. ``Man love me.'' And then the emphatic
negative word, and the sound that meant guns, and sudden furious
rushes at the cage to try to get at the Professor.

The gorilla, Professor Beek explains, evidently admired only strength;
whenever he said ``I make myself terrible to Man,'' a sentence he
often repeated, he drew himself up and thrust out his huge chest and
bared his frightful teeth; and certainly, the Professor says, there
was something terribly grand about the menacing brute. ``Me
terrible,'' he repeated again and again, ``Me terrible. Sky, sun,
stars with me. Man love me. Man love me. No?'' It meant that all the
great forces of nature assisted him and his terrible teeth, which he
gnashed repeatedly, and that therefore man should love him, and he
opened his great jaws wide as he said this, showing all the brutal
force of them.

There was to my mind a genuine ring in Professor Beek's story, because
he was obviously so much more concerned, and really troubled, by the
dreadful depravity of this animal's point of view, or mentality as he
called it, than he was concerned with whether or not we believed what
he had said.

And I mentioned that there was a circumstance in his story of a
plausible and even corroborative nature. It is this. Professor Beek,
who noticed at the time a bullet wound in the tip of the gorilla's
left ear, by means of which it was luckily identified, put his
analysis of its mentality in writing and showed it to several others,
before he had any way of accounting for the beast having such a mind.

Long afterwards it was definitely ascertained that this animal had
been caught when young on the slopes of Kilimanjaro and trained and
even educated, so far as such things are possible, by an eminent
German Professor, a persona grata at the Court of Berlin.

The Home of Herr Schnitzelhaaser

The guns in the town of Greinstein were faintly audible. The family of
Schnitzelhaaser lived alone there in mourning, an old man and old
woman. They never went out or saw any one, for they knew they could
not speak as though they did not mourn. They feared that their secret
would escape them. They had never cared for the war that the War Lord
made. They no longer cared what he did with it. They never read his
speeches; they never hung out flags when he ordered flags: they hadn't
the heart to.

They had had four sons.

The lonely old couple would go as far as the shop for food. Hunger
stalked behind them. They just beat hunger every day, and so saw
evening: but there was nothing to spare. Otherwise they did not go out
at all. Hunger had been coming slowly nearer of late. They had nothing
but the ration, and the ration was growing smaller. They had one pig
of their own, but the law said you might not kill it. So the pig was
no good to them.

They used to go and look at that pig sometimes when hunger pinched.
But more than that they did not dare to contemplate.

Hunger came nearer and nearer. The war was going to end by the first
of July. The War Lord was going to take Paris on this day and that
would end the war at once. But then the war was always going to end.
It was going to end in 1914, and their four sons were to have come
home when the leaves fell. The War Lord had promised that. And even if
it did end, that would not bring their four sons home now. So what did
it matter what the War Lord said.

It was thoughts like these that they knew they had to conceal. It was
because of thoughts like these that they did not trust themselves to
go out and see other people, for they feared that by their looks if by
nothing else, or by their silence or perhaps their tears, they might
imply a blasphemy against the All Highest. And hunger made one so
hasty. What might one not say? And so they stayed indoors.

But now. What would happen now? The War Lord was coming to Greinstein
in order to hear the guns. One officer of the staff was to be billeted
in their house. And what would happen now?

They talked the whole thing over. They must struggle and make an
effort. The officer would be there for one evening. He would leave in
the morning quite early in order to make things ready for the return
to Potsdam: he had charge of the imperial car. So for one evening they
must be merry. They would suppose, it was Herr Schnitzelhaaser's
suggestion, they would think all the evening that Belgium and France
and Luxemburg all attacked the Fatherland, and that the Kaiser,
utterly unprepared, quite unprepared, called on the Germans to defend
their land against Belgium.

Yes, the old woman could imagine that; she could think it all the
evening.

And then, -- it was no use not being cheerful altogether, -- then one
must imagine a little more, just for the evening: it would come quite
easy; one must think that the four boys were alive.

Hans too? (Hans was the youngest).

Yes, all four. Just for the evening.

But if the officer asks?

He will not ask. What are four soldiers?

So it was all arranged; and at evening the officer came. He brought
his own rations, so hunger came no nearer. Hunger just lay down
outside the door and did not notice the officer.

A this supper the officer began to talk. The Kaiser himself, he said,
was at the Schartzhaus.

``So,'' said Herr Schnitzelhaaser; ``just over the way.'' So close.
Such an honour.

And indeed the shadow of the Schartzhaus darkened their garden in the
morning.

It was such an honour, said Frau Schnitzelhaaser too. And they began
to praise the Kaiser. So great a War Lord, she said; the most glorious
war there had ever been.

Of course, said the officer, it would end on the first of July.

Of course, said Frau Schnitzelhaaser. And so great an admiral, too.
One must remember that also. And how fortunate we were to have him:
one must not forget that. Had it not been for him the crafty Belgians
would have attacked the Fatherland, but they were struck down before
they could do it. So much better to prevent a bad deed like that than
merely to punish after. So wise. And had it not been for him, if it
had not been for him...

The old man saw that she was breaking down and hastily he took up that
feverish praise. Feverish it was, for their hunger and bitter loss
affected their minds no less than illness does, and the things they
did they did hastily and intemperately. His praise of the War Lord
raced on as the officer ate. He spoke of him as of those that benefit
man, as of monarchs who bring happiness to their people. And now, he
said, he is here in the Schartzhaus beside us, listening to the guns
just like a common soldier.

Finally the guns, as he spoke, coughed beyond ominous hills.
Contentedly the officer went on eating. He suspected nothing of the
thoughts his host and hostess were hiding. At last he went upstairs to
bed.

As fierce exertion is easy to the fevered, so they had spoken; and it
wears them, so they were worn. The old woman wept when the officer
went out of hearing. But old Herr Schnitzelhaaser picked up a big
butcher's knife. ``I will bear it no more,'' he said.

His wife watched him in silence as he went away with his knife. Out of
the house he went and into the night. Through the open door she saw
nothing; all was dark; even the Schartzhaus, where all was gay
to-night, stood dark for fear of aroplanes. The old woman waited in
silence.

When Herr Schnitzelhaaser returned there was blood on his knife.

``What have you done?'' the old woman asked him quite calmly. ``I have
killed our pig,'' he said.

She broke out then, all the more recklessly for the long restraint of
the evening; the officer must have heard her.

``We are lost! We are lost!'' she cried. ``We may not kill our pig.
Hunger has made you mad. You have ruined us.''

``I will bear it no longer,'' he said. ``I have killed our pig.''

``But they will never let us eat it,'' she cried. ``Oh, you have
ruined us!''

``If you did not dare to kill our pig,'' he said, ``why did you not
stop me when you saw me go? You saw me go with the knife?''

``I thought,'' she said, ``you were going to kill the Kaiser.''

A Deed of Mercy

As Hindenburg and the Kaiser came down, as we read, from Mont d'Hiver,
during the recent offensive, they saw on the edge of a crater two
wounded British soldiers. The Kaiser ordered that they should be cared
for: their wounds were bound up and they were given brandy, and
brought round from unconsciousness. That is the German account of it,
and it may well be true. It was a kindly act.

Probably had it not been for this the two men would have died among
those desolate craters; no one would have known, and no one could have
been blamed for it.

The contrast of this spark of imperial kindness against the gloom of
the background of the war that the Kaiser made is a pleasant thing to
see, even though it illuminates for only a moment the savage darkness
in which our days are plunged. It was a kindness that probably will
long be remembered to him. Even we, his enemies, will remember it. And
who knows but that when most he needs it his reward for the act will
be given him.

For Judas, they say, once in his youth, gave his cloak, out of
compassion, to a shivering beggar, who sat shaken with ague, in rags,
in bitter need. And the years went by and Judas forgot his deed. And
long after, in Hell, Judas they say was given one day's respite at the
end of every year because of this one kindness he had done so long
since in his youth. And every year he goes, they say, for a day and
cools himself among the Arctic bergs; once every year for century
after century.

Perhaps some sailor on watch on a misty evening blown far out of his
course away to the north saw something ghostly once on an iceberg
floating by, or heard some voice in the dimness that seemed like the
voice of man, and came home with this weird story. And perhaps, as the
story passed from lip to lip, men found enough justice in it to
believe it true. So it came down the centuries.

Will seafarers ages hence on dim October evenings, or on nights when
the moon is ominous through mist, red and huge and uncanny, see a
lonely figure sometimes on the loneliest part of the sea, far north of
where the Lusitania sank, gathering all the cold it can? Will they see
it hugging a crag of iceberg wan as itself, helmet, cuirass and ice
pale-blue in the mist together? Will it look towards them with
ice-blue eyes through the mist, and will they question it, meeting on
those bleak seas? Will it answer -- or will the North wind howl like
voices? Will the cry of seals be heard, and ice floes grinding, and
strange birds lost upon the wind that night, or will it speak to them
in those distant years and tell them how it sinned, betraying man?

It will be a grim, dark story in that lonely part of the sea, when he
confesses to sailors, blown too far north, the dreadful thing he
plotted against man. The date on which he is seen will be told from
sailor to sailor. Queer taverns of distant harbours will know it well.
Not many will care to be at sea that day, and few will risk being
driven by stress of weather on the Kaiser's night to the bergs of the
haunted part of sea.

And yet for all the grimness of the pale-blue phantom, with cuirass
and helmet and eyes shimmering on deadly icebergs, and yet for all the
sorrow of the wrong he did against man, the women drowned and the
children, and all the good ships gone, yet will the horrified mariners
meeting him in the mist grudge him no moment of the day he has earned,
or the coolness he gains from the bergs, because of the kindness he
did to the wounded men. For the mariners in their hearts are kindly
men, and what a soul gains from kindness will seem to them well
deserved.

Last Scene of All

After John Calleron was hit he carried on in a kind of twilight of the
mind. Things grew dimmer and calmer; harsh outlines of events became
blurred; memories came to him; there was a singing in his ears like
far-off bells. Things seemed more beautiful than they had a while ago;
to him it was for all the world like evening after some quiet sunset,
when lawns and shrubs and woods and some old spire look lovely in the
late light, and one reflects on past days. Thus he carried on, seeing
things dimly. And what is sometimes called ``the roar of battle,''
those arial voices that snarl and moan and whine and rage at
soldiers, had grown dimmer too. It all seemed further away, and
littler, as far things are. He still heard the bullets: there is
something so violently and intensely sharp in the snap of passing
bullets at short ranges that you hear them in deepest thought, and
even in dreams. He heard them, tearing by, above all things else. The
rest seemed fainter and dimmer, and smaller and further away.

He did not think he was very badly hit, but nothing seemed to matter
as it did a while ago. Yet he carried on.

And then he opened his eyes very wide and found he was back in London
again in an underground train. He knew it at once by the look of it.
He had made hundreds of journeys, long ago, by those trains. He knew
by the dark, outside, that it had not yet left London; but what was
odder than that, if one stopped to think of it, was that he knew
exactly where it was going. It was the train that went away out into
the country where he used to live as a boy. He was sure of that
without thinking.

When he began to think how he came to be there he remembered the war
as a very far-off thing. He supposed he had been unconscious a very
long time. He was all right now.

Other people were sitting beside him on the same seat. They all seemed
like people he remembered a very long time ago. In the darkness
opposite, beyond the windows of the train, he could see their
reflections clearly. He looked at the reflections but could not quite
remember.

A woman was sitting on his left. She was quite young. She was more
like some one that he most deeply remembered than all the others were.
He gazed at her, and tried to clear his mind.

He did not turn and stare at her, but he quietly watched her
reflection before him in the dark. Every detail of her dress, her
young face, her hat, the little ornaments she wore, were minutely
clear before him, looking out of the dark. So contented she looked you
would say she was untouched by war.

As he gazed at the clear calm face and the dress that seemed neat
though old and, like all things, so faraway, his mind grew clearer and
clearer. It seemed to him certain it was the face of his mother, but
from thirty years ago, out of old memories and one picture. He felt
sure it was his mother as she had been when he was very small. And yet
after thirty years how could he know? He puzzled to try and be quite
sure. But how she came to be there, looking like that, out of those
oldest memories, he did not think of at all.

He seemed to be hugely tired by many things and did not want to think.
Yet he was very happy, more happy even than tired men just come home
all new to comfort.

He gazed and gazed at the face in the dark. And then he felt quite
sure.

He was about to speak. Was she looking at him? Was she watching him,
he wondered. He glanced for the first time to his own reflection in
that clear row of faces.

His own reflection was not there, but blank dark showed between his
two neighbours. And then he knew he was dead.

Old England

Towards winter's end on a high, big, bare down, in the south of
England, John Plowman was plowing. He was plowing the brown field at
the top of the hill, good soil of the clay; a few yards lower down was
nothing but chalk, with shallow flinty soil and steep to plow; so they
let briars grow there. For generations his forbears had plowed on the
top of that hill. John did not know how many. The hills were very old;
it might have been always.

He scarcely looked to see if his furrow was going straight. The work
he was doing was so much in his blood that he could almost feel if
furrows were straight or not. Year after year they moved on the same
old landmarks; thorn trees and briars mostly guided the plow, where
they stood on the untamed land beyond; the thorn trees grew old at
their guiding, and still the furrows varied not by the breadth of a
hoof-mark.

John, as he plowed, had leisure to meditate on much besides the crops;
he knew so much of the crops that his thoughts could easily run free
from them; he used to meditate on who they were that lived in briar
and thorn tree, and danced as folk said all through midsummer night,
and sometimes blessed and sometimes harmed the crops; for he knew that
in Old England were wonderful ancient things, odder and older things
than many folks knew. And his eyes had leisure to see much beside the
furrows, for he could almost feel the furrows going straight.

One day at his plowing, as he watched the thorn ahead, he saw the
whole big hill besides, looking south, and the lands below it; one day
he saw in the bright sun of late winter a horseman riding the road
through the wide lands below. The horseman shone as he rode, and wore
white linen over what was shining, and on the linen was a big red
cross. ``One of them knights,'' John Plowman said to himself or his
horse, ``going to them crusades.'' And he went on with his plowing all
that day satisfied, and remembered what he had seen for years, and
told his son.

For there is in England, and there always was, mixed with the needful
things that feed or shelter the race, the wanderer-feeling for
romantic causes that runs deep and strange through the other thoughts,
as the Gulf Stream runs through the sea. Sometimes generations of John
Plowman's family would go by and no high romantic cause would come to
sate that feeling. They would work on just the same though a little
sombrely, as though some good thing had been grudged them. And then
the Crusades had come, and John Plowman had seen the Red Cross knight
go by, riding towards the sea in the morning, and Jon Plowman was
satisfied.

Some generations later a man of the same name was plowing the same
hill. They still plowed the brown clay at the top and left the slope
wild, though there were many changes. And the furrows were wonderfully
straight still. And half he watched a thorn tree ahead as he plowed
and half he took in the whole hill sloping south and the wide lands
below it, far beyond which was the sea. They had a railway now down in
the valley. The sunlight glittering near the end of winter shone on a
train that was marked with great white squares and red crosses on
them.

John Plowman stopped his horses and looked at the train. ``An
ambulance train,'' he said, ``coming up from the coast.'' He thought
of the lads he knew and wondered if any were there. He pitied the men
in that train and envied them. And then there came to him the thought
of England's cause and of how those men had upheld it, at sea and in
crumbling cities. He thought of the battle whose echoes reached
sometimes to that field, whispering to furrows and thorn trees that
had never heard them before. He thought of the accursed tyrant's cruel
might, and of the lads that had faced it. He saw the romantic
splendour of England's cause. He was old but had seen the glamour for
which each generation looked. Satisfied in his heart and cheered with
a new content he went on with his age-old task in the business of man
with the hills.
_________________________________________________________________

A printed version of this book is available from Sattre Press,
http://tow.sattre-press.com. It includes a new introduction and
photographs of the author.








Robert Rowe, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.



THIRTY-ONE YEARS ON THE
PLAINS AND IN THE MOUNTAINS

OR, THE

LAST VOICE FROM THE PLAINS.
AN AUTHENTIC RECORD OF A LIFE TIME OF HUNTING,
TRAPPING, SCOUTING AND INDIAN FIGHTING IN THE FAR WEST

BY

CAPT. WILLIAM F. DRANNAN,

WHO WENT ON TO THE PLAINS WHEN FIFTEEN YEARS OLD.






PREFACE.

In writing this preface I do so with the full knowledge that the
preface of a book is rarely read, comparatively speaking, but I
shall write this one just the same.

In writing this work the author has made no attempt at romance, or
a great literary production, but has narrated in his own plain,
blunt way, the incidents of his life as they actually occurred.

There have been so many books put upon the market, purporting to
be the lives of noted frontiersmen which are only fiction, that I
am moved to ask the reader to consider well before condemning this
book as such.

The author starts out with the most notable events of his boyhood
days, among them his troubles with an old negro virago, wherein he
gets his revenge by throwing a nest of lively hornets under her
feet. Then come his flight and a trip, to St. Louis, hundreds of
miles on foot, his accidental meeting with that most eminent man
of his class, Kit Carson, who takes the lad into his care and
treats him as a kind father would a son. He then proceeds to give
a minute description of his first trip on the plains, where he
meets and associates with such noted plainsmen as Gen. John
Charles Fremont, James Beckwith, Jim Bridger and others, and gives
incidents of his association with them in scouting, trapping,
hunting big game, Indian fighting, etc.

The author also gives brief sketches of the springing into
existence of many of the noted cities of the West, and the
incidents connected therewith that have never been written before.
There is also a faithful recital of his many years of scouting for
such famous Indian fighters as Gen. Crook, Gen. Connor, Col.
Elliott, Gen. Wheaton and others, all of which will be of more
than passing interest to those who can be entertained by the early
history of the western part of our great republic.

This work also gives an insight into the lives of the hardy
pioneers of the far West, and the many trials and hardships they
had to undergo in blazing the trail and hewing the way to one of
the grandest and most healthful regions of the United States.
W. F. D.

  CHICAGO, August 1st, 1899.




CONTENTS.

CHAPTER 1. A Boy Escapes a Tyrant and Pays a Debt with a Hornet's
Nest--Meets Kit Carson and Becomes the Owner of a Pony and a Gun

CHAPTER 2. Beginning of an Adventurous Life--First Wild Turkey--
First Buffalo--First Feast as an Honored Guest of Indians--Dog
Meat

CHAPTER 3. Hunting and Trapping in South Park, Where a Boy,
Unaided, Kills and Scalps Two Indians--Meeting with Fremont, the
"Path-finder"

CHAPTER 4. A Winter in North Park--Running Fight with a Band of
Utes for More than a Hundred Miles, Ending Hand to Hand--Victory

CHAPTER 5. On the Cache-la-Poudre--Visit from Gray Eagle, Chief of
the Arapahoes.--A Bear-hunter is Hunted by the Bear--Phil, the
Cannibal

CHAPTER 6. Two Boys Ride to the City of Mexico--Eleven Hundred
Miles of Trial, Danger and Duty--A Gift Horse--The Wind River
Mountains

CHAPTER 7. A Three Days' Battle Between the Comanches and the Utes
for the Possession of a "Hunter's Paradise"--An Unseasonable Bath.

CHAPTER 8. Kit Carson Kills a Hudson Bay Company's Trapper, Who
Was Spoiling for a Fight--Social Good Time with a Train of
Emigrants

CHAPTER 9. Marriage of Kit Carson--The Wedding Feast--Providing
Buffalo Meat, in the Original Package, for the Boarding-house at
Bent's Fort

CHAPTER 10. Robber Gamblers of San Francisco--Engaged by Col.
Elliott as Indian Scout--Kills and Scalps Five Indians--Promoted
to Chief Scout

CHAPTER 11. A Lively Battle with Pah-Utes--Pinned to Saddle with
an Arrow--Some Very Good Indians--Stuttering Captain--Beckwith
Opens His Pass

CAAPTER 12--Col. Elliott Kills His First Deer, and Secures a Fine
Pair of Horns as Present for His Father--Beckwith's Tavern--
Society

CHAPTER l3--Something Worse than Fighting Indians Dance at Col.
Elliott's--Conspicuous Suit of Buckskin I Manage to Get Back to
Beckwith's

CHAPTER 14. Drilling the Detailed Scouts---We Get Among the Utes--
Four Scouts Have Not Reported Yet--Another Lively Fight--Beckwith
Makes a Raise

CHAPTER 15. A Hunt on Petaluma Creek--Elk Fever Breaks Out--The
Expedition to Klamath Lake--A Lively Brush with Modoc Indians

CHAPTER 16. More Fish than I Had Ever Seen at One Time--We
Surprise Some Indians, Who Also Surprise Us--The Camp at Klamath
Lake--I Get Another Wound and a Lot of Horses

CHAPTER 17. Discovery of Indians with Stolen Horses--We Kill the
Indians and Return the Property to Its Owners--Meeting of Miners--
In Society Again

CHAPTER 18. Trapping on the Gila--The Pimas Impart a Secret--
Rescue of a White Girl--A Young Indian Ages--Visit to Taos--Uncle
Kit Fails to Recognize Me

CHAPTER 19. A Warm Time in a Cold Country--A Band of Bannocks
Chase Us Into a Storm that Saves Us--Kit Carson Slightly Wounded--
Beckwith Makes a Century Run

CHAPTER 20. Carson Quits the Trail--Buffalo Robes for Ten Cents--
"Pike's Peak or Bust"--The New City of Denver--"Busted"--How the
News Started

CHAPTER 21. A Fight With the Sioux--Hasa, the Mexican Boy, Killed-
-Mixed Up With Emigrants Some More--Four New Graves--Successful
Trading With the Kiowas

CHAPTER 22. A Trip to Fort Kearney--The General Endorses Us and We
Pilot an Emigrant Train to California--Woman Who Thought I Was "no
Gentleman"--A Camp Dance

CHAPTER 23. Bridger and West Give Christmas a High Old Welcome in
Sacramento--California Gulch--Meeting with Buffalo Bill--Thirty-
three Scalps with One Knife

CHAPTER 24. Face to Face with a Band of Apaches--The Death of
Pinto--The Closest Call I Ever Had--A Night Escape--Back at Fort
Douglas

CHAPTER 25. Three Thousand Dead Indians--A Detective from Chicago-
-He Goes Home with an Old Mormon's Youngest Wife and Gets into
Trouble--The Flight

CHAPTER 26.--Through to Bannock--A Dance of Peace Fright of the
Negroes--A Freight Train Snowed in and a Trip on Snow-shoes--Some
Very Tough Road Agents

CHAPTER 27. Organization of a Vigilance Committe--End of the
Notorious Slade--One Hundred Dollars for a "Crow-bait" Horse--
Flour a Dollar a Pound.

CHATER 28. Twenty-two Thousand Dollars in Gold Dust--A Stage
Robbery--Another Trip to California Meeting with Gen Crook--Chief
of Scouts

CHAPTER 29. Find Some Murdered Emigrants--We Bury the Dead and
Follow and Scalp the Indians--Gen. Crook Is Pleased with the
Outcome--A Mojave Blanket

CHAPTER 30. A Wicked Little Battle--Capture of One Hundred and
Eighty-two Horses--Discovery of Black Canyon--Fort Yuma and the
Paymaster

CHAPTER 31. To California for Horses--My Beautiful Mare, Black
Bess--We Get Sixty-six Scalps and Seventy-eight Horses--A Clean
Sweep

CHAPTER 32. Some Men Who Were Anxious for a Fight and Got It--Gen.
Crook at Black Canyon--Bad Mistake of a Good Man--The Victims

CHAPTER 33. The Massacre at Choke Cherry Canyon--Mike Maloney Gets
Into a Muss--Rescue of White Girls--Mike Gets Even with the
Apaches

CHAPTER 34. Massacre of the Davis Family--A Hard Ride and Swift
Retribution--A Pitiful Story--Burial of the Dead--I am Sick of the
Business

CHAPTER 35. Black Bess Becomes Popular in San Francisco--A Failure
as Rancher--Buying Horses in Oregon--The Klamath Marsh--Captain
Jack the Modoc

CHAPTER 36. The Modoc War--Gen. Wheaton Is Held Off by the
Indians--Gen. Canby Takes Command and Gets It Worse-Massacre of
the Peace Commission

CHAPTER 37-The Cry of a Babe--Capture of a Bevy of Squaws--
Treachery of Gen. Ross' Men in Killing Prisoners--Capture of the
Modoc Chief

CHAPTER 38. Story of the Captured Braves--Why Captain Jack
Deserted--Loathsome Condition of the Indian Stronghold--End of the
War--Some Comments

CHAPTER 39. An Interested Boy--Execution of the Modoc Leaders--
Newspaper Messengers--A Very Sudden Deputy Sheriff--A Bad Man
Wound Up

CHAPTER 40. In Society Some More--A Very Tight Place--Ten Pairs of
Yankee Ears--Black Bess Shakes Herself at the Right Time--Solemn
Compact.

CHAPTER 41. We Locate a Small Band of Red Butchers and Send them
to the Happy Hunting Grounds--Emigrants Mistake Us for Indians--
George Jones Wounded

CHAPTER 42. "We Are All Surrounded"--A Bold Dash and a Bad Wound--
Mrs. Davis Shows Her Gratitude--Most of My Work Now Done on
Crutches

CHAPTER 43. Poor Jones Makes His Last Fight--He Died Among a Lot
of the Devils He Had Slain--End of Thirty-one Years of Hunting,
Trapping and Scouting

CHAPTER 44. A Grizzley Hunts the Hunter--Shooting Seals in Alaskan
Waters--I Become a Seattle Hotel Keeper and the Big Fire Closes Me
Out--Some Rest--The Old Scout's Lament




CHAPTER I.

A BOY ESCAPES A TYRANT AND PAYS A DEBT WITH A HORNET'S NEST--MEETS
KIT CARSON AND BECOMES THE OWNER OF A PONY AND A GUN.

The old saying that truth is stranger than fiction is emphasized
in the life of every man whose career has been one of adventure
and danger in the pursuit of a livlihood. Knowing nothing of the
art of fiction and but little of any sort of literature; having
been brought up in the severe school of nature, which is all
truth, and having had as instructor in my calling a man who was
singularly and famously truthful, truth has been my inheritance
and in this book I bequeath it to my readers.

My name is William F. Drannan, and I was born on the Atlantic
ocean January 30, 1832, while my parents were emigrating from
France to the United States.

They settled in Tennessee, near Nashville, and lived upon a farm
until I was about four years old. An epidemic of cholera prevailed
in that region for some months during that time and my parents
died of the dread disease, leaving myself and a little sister,
seven months old, orphans.

I have never known what became of my sister, nor do I know how I
came to fall into the hands of a man named Drake, having been too
young at that time to remember now the causes of happenings then.
However, I remained with this man, Drake, on his plantation near
The Hermitage, the home of Gen. Andrew Jackson, until I was
fifteen.

Drake was a bachelor who owned a large number of negro slaves, and
I was brought up to the age mentioned among the negro children of
the place, without schooling, but cuffed and knocked about more
like a worthless puppy than as if I were a human child. I never
saw the inside of a school-house, nor was I taught at home
anything of value. Drake never even undertook to teach me the
difference between good and evil, and my only associates were the
little negro boys that belonged to Drake, or the neighbors. The
only person who offered to control or correct me was an old negro
woman, who so far from being the revered and beloved "Black
Mammy," remembered with deep affection by many southern men and
women, was simply a hideous black tyrant. She abused me
shamefully, and I was punished by her not only for my own
performances that displeased her, but for all the meanness done by
the negro boys under her jurisdiction.

Naturally these negro boys quickly learned that they could escape
punishment by falsely imputing to me all of their mischief and I
was their scape-goat.

Often Drake's negro boys went over to General Jackson's plantation
to play with the negro boys over there and I frequently
accompanied them. One day the old General asked me why I did not
go to school. But I could not tell him. I did not know why. I have
known since that I was not told to go and anyone knows that a boy
just growing up loose, as I was, is not likely to go to school of
his own accord.

I do not propose to convey to the reader the idea that I was
naturally better than other boys, on the contrary, I frequently
deserved the rod when I did not get it, but more frequently
received a cruel drubbing when I did not deserve it, that, too, at
the hands of the old negro crone who was exceedingly violent as
well as unjust. This, of course, cultivated in me a hatred against
the vile creature which was little short of murderous.

However, I stayed on and bore up under my troubles as there was
nothing else to do, so far as I knew then, but "grin and bear it."
This until I was fifteen years old.

At this time, however ignorant, illiterate, wild as I was, a faint
idea of the need of education dawned upon me. I saw other white
boys going to school; I saw the difference between them and myself
that education was rapidly making and I realized that I was
growing up as ignorant and uncultured as the slave boys who were
my only attainable companions.

Somehow I had heard of a great city called St. Louis, and little
by little the determination grew upon me to reach that wonderful
place in some way.

I got a few odd jobs of work, now and then, from the neighbors and
in a little while I had accumulated four dollars, which seemed a
great deal of money to me, and I thought I would buy about half of
St. Louis, if I could only get there. And yet I decided that it
would be just as well to have a few more dollars and would not
leave my present home, which, bad it was, was the only one I had,
until I had acquired a little more money. But coming home from
work one evening I found the old negress in an unusually bad
humor, even for her. She gave me a cruel thrashing just to give
vent to her feelings, and that decided me to leave at once,
without waiting to further improve my financial condition. I was
getting to be too big a boy to be beaten around by that old
wretch, and having no ties of friendship, and no one being at all
interested in me, I was determined to get away before my tormentor
could get another chance at me.

I would go to St. Louis, but I must get even with the old hag
before starting. I did not wish to leave in debt to anyone in the
neighborhood and so I cudgeled my brain to devise a means for
settling old scores with my self-constituted governess.

Toward evening I wandered into a small pasture, doing my best to
think how I could best pay off the black termagant with safety to
myself, when with great good luck I suddenly beheld a huge
hornet's nest, hanging in a bunch of shrubbery. My plan instantly
and fully developed. Quickly I returned to the house and hastily
gathered what little clothing I owned into a bundle, done up in my
one handkerchief, an imitation of bandanna, of very loud pattern.
This bundle I secreted in the barn and then hied me to the
hornet's nest. Approaching the swinging home of the hornets very
softly, so as not to disturb the inmates, I stuffed the entrance
to the hornet castle with sassafras leaves, and taking the great
sphere in my arms I bore it to a back window of the kitchen where
the black beldame was vigorously at work within and contentedly
droning a negro hymn.

Dark was coming on and a drizzly rain was falling. It was the
spring of the year, the day had been warm and the kitchen window
was open. I stole up to the open window. The woman's back was
toward me. I removed the plug of sassafras leaves and hurled the
hornet's nest so that it landed under the hag's skirts.

I watched the proceedings for one short moment, and then, as it
was getting late, I concluded I had better be off for St. Louis.
So I went away from there at the best gait I could command.

I could hear my arch-enemy screaming, and it was music to my ears
that even thrills me yet, sometimes. It was a better supper than
she would have given me.

I saw the negroes running from the quarters, and elsewhere, toward
the kitchen, and I must beg the reader to endeavor to imagine the
scene in that culinary department, as I am unable to describe it,
not having waited to see it out.

But I slid for the barn, secured my bundle and started for the
ancient city far away.

All night, on foot and alone, I trudged the turnpike that ran
through Nashville. I arrived in that city about daylight, tired
and hungry, but was too timid to stop for something to eat,
notwithstanding I had my four dollars safe in my pocket, and had
not eaten since noon, the day before.

I plodded along through the town and crossed the Cumberland river
on a ferry-boat, and then pulled out in a northerly direction for
about an hour, when I came to a farm-house. In the road in front
of the house I met the proprietor who was going from his garden,
opposite the house, to his breakfast.

He waited until I came up, and as I was about to pass on, he said:
"Hello! my boy. where are you going so early this morning?"

I told him I was on my way to St. Louis.

"St. Louis?" he said. "I never heard of that place before. Where
is it?"

I told him I thought it was in Missouri, but was not certain.

"Are you going all the way on foot, and alone?"

I answered that I was, and that I had no other way to go. With
that I started on.

"Hold on," he said. "If you are going to walk that long way you
had better come in and have some breakfast."

You may rest assured that I did not wait for a second invitation,
for about that time I was as hungry as I had ever been in my life.

While we were eating breakfast the farmer turned to his oldest
daughter and said:

"Martha, where is St. Louis?"

She told him it was in Missouri, and one of the largest towns in
the South or West. "Our geography tells lots about it," she said.

I thought this was about the best meal I had ever eaten in my
life, and after it was over I offered to pay for it, but the kind-
hearted old man refused to take anything, saying: "Keep your
money, my boy. You may need it before you get back. And on your
return, stop and stay with me all night, and tell us all about St.
Louis."

After thanking them, I took my little bundle, bade them good-bye,
and was on my journey again. I have always regretted that I did
not learn this good man's name, but I was in something of a hurry
just then, for I feared that Mr. Drake might get on my trail and
follow me and take me back, and I had no pressing inclination to
meet old Hulda again.

I plodded along for many days, now and then looking back for Mr.
Drake, but not anxious to see him; rather the reverse.

It is not necessary to lumber up this story with my trip to St
louis. I was about six weeks on the road, the greater part of the
time in Kentucky, and I had no use for my money. I could stay at
almost any farm-house all night, wherever I stopped, and have a
good bed and be well fed, but no one would take pay for these
accommodations. When I got to Owensboro, Ky, I became acquainted
by accident with the mate of a steamboat that was going to St.
Louis and he allowed me to go on the boat and work my way.

The first person that I met in St Louis, that I dared to speak
with, was a boy somewhat younger than myself. I asked him his
name, and in broken English he replied that his name was Henry
Becket.

Seeing that he was French, I began to talk to him in his own
language, which was my mother tongue, and so we were quickly
friends. I told him that my parents were both dead and that I had
no home, and he being of a kind-hearted, sympathetic nature,
invited me to go home with him, which invitation I immediately
accepted.

Henry Becket's mother was a widow and they were very poor, but
they were lovingly kind to me.

I told Mrs. Becket of my troubles with Mr. Drake's old negro
woman; how much abuse I had suffered at her hands and the widow
sympathized with me deeply. She also told me that I was welcome to
stay with them until such time as I was able to get employment. So
I remained with the Beckets three days, during all of which time I
tried hard to get work, but without success.

On the morning of the fourth day she asked me if I had tried any
of the hotels for work. I told her that I had not, so she advised
me to go to some of them in my rounds.

It had not occurred to me that a boy could find anything to do
about a hotel, but I took Mrs. Becket's advice, and that morning
called at the American hotel, which was the first one I came to.

Quite boldly, for a green boy, I approached the person whom I was
told was the proprietor and asked him if he had any work for a
boy, whereupon he looked at me in what seemed a most scornful way
and said very tartly:

"What kind of work do you think you could do?"

I told him I could do most anything in the way of common labor.

He gave me another half-scornful smile and said:

"I think you had better go home to your parents and go to school.
That's the best place for you."

This was discouraging, but instead of explaining my position, I
turned to go, and in spite of all that I could do the tears came
to my eyes. Not that I cared so much for being refused employment,
but for the manner in which the hotel man had spoken to me. I did
not propose to give up at that, but started away, more than ever
determined to find employment. I did not want to impose on the
Beckets, notwithstanding that they still assured me of welcome,
and moreover I wished to do something to help them, even more than
myself.

I had nearly reached the door when a man who had been reading a
newspaper, but was now observing me, called out:

"My boy! come here."

I went over to the corner where he was sitting and I was trying at
the same time to dry away my tears.

This man asked my name, which I gave him. He then asked where my
parents lived, and I told him that they died when I was four years
old.

Other questions from him brought out the story of my boy-life;
Drake, Gen. Jackson, the negro boys and the brutal negress; then
my trip to St. Louis--but I omitted the hornet's-nest incident. I
also told this kindly stranger that I had started out to make a
living for myself and intended to succeed.

Then he asked me where I was staying, and I told him of the
Beckets.

Seeing that this man was taking quite an interest in me, gave me
courage to ask his name. He told me that his name was Kit Carson,
and that by calling he was a hunter and trapper, and asked me how
I would like to learn his trade.

I assured him that I was willing to do anything honorable for a
living and that I thought I would very much like to be a hunter
and trapper. He said he would take me with him and I was entirely
delighted. Often I had wished to own a gun, but had never thought
of shooting anything larger than a squirrel or rabbit. I was ready
to start at once, and asked him when he would go.

Smilingly he told me not to be in a hurry, and asked me where Mrs.
Becket lived. I told him as nearly as I could, and again asked
when he thought we would leave St. Louis. I was fearful that he
would change his mind about taking me with him. I didn't know him
then so well as afterward. I came to learn that his slightest word
was his bond.

But visions of Mr. Drake, an old negro woman and a hornet's nest,
still haunted me and made me overanxious. I wanted to get as far
out of their reach as possible and still remain on the earth.

Mr. Carson laughed in a quiet and yet much amused way and said:

"You must learn to not do anything until you are good and ready,
and there are heaps of things to do before we can start out. Now
let's go and see Mrs. Becket."

So I piloted him to the widow's home, which, as near as I can
remember, was about four blocks from the hotel. Mr. Carson being
able to speak French first-rate, had a talk with Mrs. Becket
concerning me. The story she told him, corresponding with that
which I had told him, he concluded that I had given him nothing
but truth, and then he aked Mrs. Becket what my bill was. She
replied that she had just taken me in because I was a poor boy,
until such time as I could find employment, and that her charges
were nothing. He then asked her how long I had been with her, and
being told that it was four days, he begged her to take five
dollars, which she finally accepted.

I took my little budget of clothes and tearfully bidding Mrs.
Becket and Henry good-bye, started back to the hotel with my new
guardian, and I was the happiest boy in the world, from that on,
so long as I was a boy.

On the way back to the hotel Mr. Carson stopped with me at a store
and he bought me a new suit of clothes, a hat and a pair of boots,
for I was barefooted and almost bareheaded. Thus dressed I could
hardly realize that I was the Will Drannan of a few hours before.

That was the first pair of boots I had ever owned. Perhaps, dear
reader, you do not know what that means to a healthy boy of
fifteen.

It means more than has ever been written, or ever will be.

I was now very ready to start out hunting, and on our way to the
hotel I asked Mr. Carson if he did not think we could get away by
morning, but he told me that to hunt I would probably need a gun,
and we must wait until he could have one made for me, of proper
size for a boy.

The next day we went to a gun factory and Mr. Carson gave orders
concerning the weapon, after which we returned to the hotel. We
remained in St. Louis about three weeks and every day seemed like
an age to me. At our room in the hotel Mr. Carson would tell me
stories about hunting and trapping, and notwithstanding the
intense interest of the stories the days were longer, because I so
much wished to be among the scenes he talked of, and my dreams at
night were filled with all sorts of wonderful animals, my fancy's
creation from what Mr. Carson talked about. I had never fired a
gun in my life and I was unbearably impatient to get my hands on
the one that was being made for me.

During the wait at St. Louis, Henry Becket was with me nearly all
the time, and when we were not haunting the gun factory, we were,
as much as possible, in Mr. Carson's room at the hotel, listening
to stories of adventure on the plains and among the mountains.

I became, at once, very much attached to Mr. Carson and I thought
there was not another man in the United States equal to him--and
there never has been, in his line. Besides, since the death of my
mother he was the only one who had taken the slightest interest in
me, or treated me like a human being, barring, of course, the
Beckets and those persons who had helped me on my long walk from
Nashville to St. Louis.

Finally Mr. Carson--whom I had now learned to address as Uncle
Kit--said to me, one morning, that as my gun was about completed
we would make preparations to start West. So we went out to a
farm, about two miles from St. Louis, to get the horses from where
Uncle Kit had left them to be cared for during the winter.

We went on foot, taking a rope, or riatta, as it is called by
frontiersmen, and on the way to the farm I could think or talk of
nothing but my new rifle, and the buffalo, deer, antelope and
other game that I would kill when I reached the plains. Uncle Kit
remarked that he had forgotten to get me a saddle, but that we
would not have to wait to get one made, as there were plenty of
saddles that would fit me already made, and that he would buy me
one when he got back to town.

When we reached the farm where the horses were, Uncle Kit pointed
out a little bay pony that had both his ears cropped off at the
tips, and he said:

"Now Willie, there is your pony. Catch him and climb on," at the
same time handing me the riatta.

The pony being gentle I caught and mounted him at once, and by the
time we had got back to town money could not have bought that
little crop-eared horse from me. As will be seen, later on, I kept
that pony and he was a faithful friend and servant until his
tragic death, years afterward.

In two days we had a pack-train of twenty horses rigged for the
trip. The cargo was mostly tobacco, blankets and beads, which
Carson was taking out to trade to the Indians for robes and furs.
Of course all this was novel to me as I had never seen a pack-
saddle or anything associated with one.

A man named Hughes, of whom you will see much in this narrative,
accompanied and assisted Uncle Kit on this trip, as he had done
the season before, for besides his experience as a packer, he was
a good trapper, and Uncle Kit employed him.




CHAPTER II.

BEGINNING OF AN ADVENTUROUS LIFE.--FIRST WILD TURKEY.--FIRST
BUFFALO.--FIRST FEAST AS AN HONORED GUEST OF INDIANS.--DOG MEAT.


It was on the morning of May 3, 1847, that we rounded up the
horses and Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes began packing them.

It being the first trip of the season some of the pack-ponies were
a little frisky and would try to lie down when the packs were put
on them. So it became my business to look after them and keep them
on their feet until all were packed.

Everything being in readiness, I shook hands, good-bye, with my
much-esteemed friend, Henry Becket, who had been helping me with
the pack-horses, and who also coveted my crop-eared pony, very
naturally for a boy. Then we were off for a country unknown to me,
except for what Uncle Kit had told me of it.

My happiness seemed to increase, if that were possible. I was
unspeakably glad to get away from St. Louis before Mr. Drake had
learned of my whereabouts, and up to the time of this writing I
have never been back to St. Louis, or Tennessee, nor have I heard
anything of Mr. Drake or my ancient enemy, the angel of Erebus.

From St. Louis we struck out westward, heading for Ft. Scott,
which place is now a thriving little city in southeastern Kansas,
but then the extreme out-edge of settlement.

The first day out we traveled until about 2 o'clock in the
afternoon, when we came to a fine camping place with abundance of
grass, wood and water.

Uncle Kit, thinking we had traveled far enough for the first day,
said:

"I reckon the lad is gittin' tired, Hughes, 's well as the horses,
an' I think we'd better pull up for the day."

I was glad to hear this, for I had done more riding chat day than
in any one day in my life, before.

Uncle Kit told me it would be my job, on the trip as soon as my
horse was unsaddled, to gather wood and start a fire, while he and
Mr. Hughes unpacked the animals. So I unsaddled my horse, and by
the time they had the horses unpacked I had a good fire going and
plenty of water at hand for all purposes. Mr. Hughes, meantime,
got out the coffee-pot and frying-pan, and soon we had a meal that
I greatly enjoyed and which was the first one for me by a camp-
fire.

After we had eaten, and smoked and lounged for a while, Uncle Kit
asked me if I did not wish to try my rifle.

Of course I did.

So taking a piece of wood and sharpening one end that it might be
driven into the ground, he took a piece of charcoal and made on
the flat side of the wood a mark for me to shoot at.

"Now Willie," said Uncle Kit, "if you ever expect to be a good
hunter you must learn to be a good shot, and you can't begin
practicin' too soon."

I had never fired a gun, but I had made up my mind to be a mighty
hunter and so started in for shooting practice with much zeal.
Uncle Kit gave me few instructions about How to hold the gun, and
I raised the rifle to my face and fired the first shot of my life.

I do not know how close my bullet came to that mark, nor how far
it missed, for the wood was untouched. But I tried it again and
with much better success, for this time I struck the stick about
eight inches below the mark. This was great encouragement and from
that on I could scarcely take time to eat meals in camp, in my
anxiety to practice, and I was further encouraged by Uncle Kit's
approval of my desire to practice.

One evening I overheard Uncle Kit say to Mr. Huges, "That boy is
going to make a dead shot afterwhile."

This gave me great faith in my future as a hunter and Uncle Kit
and Mr. Hughes seemed to take great delight in teaching me all the
tricks of rifle marksmanship.

After we had traveled about two days we came to a belt of country
where there were wild turkeys in great numbers, and on the morning
of the third day out, Uncle Kit called me early, saying:

"Come Willie, jump up now, an' le's go an' see if we can't git a
wild turkey for breakfast." He had heard the turkeys that morning
and knew which direction to go to find them.

I rolled out and was quickly dressed and ready.

When near the turkey haunt Uncle Kit took a quill from his pocket
and by a peculiar noise on the quill called the turkeys up near to
him, then took aim at one, fired and killed it.

"Now Willie," he said, "do you think you can do that to-morrow
morning?"

I told him that I thought if I could get close enough, and the
turkeys would stand right still, I believed I could fetch one. And
I desired to know if it was certain that there would be turkeys
where we were to camp that night.

"Oh, yes;" said he, "thar'll be plenty of 'em for some days yit."

Early the next morning Uncle Kit called me as usual, and said,
"Git up now, an' see what you can do for a turkey breakfast."

Instantly I was on my feet, Uncle Kit showed me the direction to
go, loaned me his turkey-call quill, which, by the way, he had
been teaching me how to use as we rode the day before.

I shouldered my rifle and had not gone far when I heard the
turkeys, up the river. Then I took the quill and started my turkey
tune. Directly a big old gobbler came strutting towards me and I
called him up as near to me as he would come, for I wanted to make
sure of him.

Uncle Kit had told me about the "buck-ague" and I knew I had it
when I tried to draw a bead on that big gobbler. I had never shot
at a living thing, and when I leveled my rifle it was impossible
to control my nerves.

The turkey seemed to jump up and down, and appeared to me to be as
big as a pony, when I looked at him along the rifle. Two or three
times I tried to hold the bead on him, but could not. Now I
wouldn't have missed killing him for anything, in reason, for I
feared that Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes would laugh at me.

At last, however, the sights of my gun steadied long enough for me
to pull the trigger, and to my great delight--and I may as well
admit, surprise--Mr. Gobbler tumbled over dead when I fired, and
he was so heavy as to be a good load for me to carry to camp.

Now I was filled with confidence in myself, and became eager for a
shot at bigger game; antelope, deer or buffalo.

In a few days we passed Ft. Scott and then we were entirely beyond
the bounds of civilization.

From that on, until we reached our destination, the only living
things we saw were jack-rabbits, prairie-dogs, antelope, deer,
buffalo, sage-hens and Indians, barring, of course, insects,
reptiles and the like, and the little owls that live with the
prairie-dogs and sit upon the mounds of the dog villages, eyeing
affairs with seeming dignity and wisdom.

The owls seem to turn their heads while watching you, their bodies
remaining stationary, until, it has been said, you may wring their
heads off by walking around them a few times. I would not have my
young friends believe, however, that this is true. It is only a
very old joke of the plains.

The first herd of buffalo we saw was along a stream known as Cow
Creek and which is a tributary to the Arkansas river. We could see
the herd feeding along the hills in the distance.

Here was good camping ground and it was time to halt for the
night. So as soon as we had decided on the spot to pitch camp,
Uncle Kit directed me to go and kill a buffalo, so that we might
hgve fresh meat for supper.

That suited me, exactly, for I was eager to get a shot at such big
game.

Uncle Kit told me to follow up the ravine until opposite the herd
and then climb the hill, but to be careful and not let the buffalo
see me.

I followed his instructions to the dot, for I had come to believe
that what Kit Carson said was law and gospel, and what he didn't
know would not fill a book as large as Ayer's Almanac. I was
right, too, so far as plainscraft was concerned.

Uncle Kit had also directed me to select a small buffalo to shoot
at, and to surely kill it, for we were out of meat.

It so happened that when I got to the top of the hill and in sight
of the herd again the first animal that seemed to present an
advantageous shot was a two-year-old heifer.

I dropped flat on the ground and crawled toward her, like a snake.
Once she raised her head, but the wind being in my favor, she did
not discern me, but put her head down and went on feeding. I
succeeded in crawling quite close enough to her, drew a bead on
her and fired. At the crack of the rifle she came to the ground,
"as dead as a door-nail," much to the surprise of Uncle Kit and
Mr. Hughes, who were watching me from a distance.

When the animal fell, I threw my hat in the air and gave a yell
that would have done credit to an Apache warrior.

Uncle Kit and I dressed the buffalo and carried the meat into camp
while Mr. Hughes gathered wood for the night-fires.

I could scarcely sleep that night for thinking of my buffalo, and
could I have seen Henry Becket that night I would almost have
stunned him with my stories of frontier life.

The novice is ever enthusiastic.

The following morning we woke up early, and off, still heading up
the Arkansas river for Bent's Fort, and from here on the buffalo
were numerous, and we had that sort of fresh meat until we got
good and tired of it.

The second day out from Cow Creek, in the afternoon, we saw about
twenty Indians coming towards us. At the word, "Indians," I could
feel my hair raise on end, and many an Indian has tried to raise
it since.

This was my first sight of the red man. He looked to me to be more
of a black man.

Uncle Kit asked Mr. Hughes what Indians he thought they were. The
reply was that he thought them to be Kiowas, and on coming up to
them the surmise proved to be correct.

They were Black Buffalo, the chief of the Kiowas, and his
daughter, accompanied by twenty warriors.

Black Buffalo, and indeed all the Kiowa tribe, were well
acquainted with Uncle Kit and had great respect for him. So a
general hand-shaking and pow-wow followed.

Carson spoke their language as well as they could, and
consequently had no difficulty conversing with them.

In those days very few Indians knew a word of English,
consequently all conversation with them had to be carried on in
the several tribal languages or dialects, or in the jargon.

This latter was a short language composed of Indian, French and
English words, and was called "Chinook." It originated with the
fur traders of Astoria, Ore., and its growth was assisted by
missionaries, until it became the means of communication between
the whites and the Indians of the coast and interior of the vast
Northwest, and even between Indians whose dialects were unknown to
each other. In short it was a sort of Indian "Volapuk," and was
very easily mastered. There has been a dictionary of it printed,
and I have known a bright man to acquire the vocabulary in two or
three days.

Black Buffalo and his little band shortly turned about and rode
back to their village, which was only two miles away. But they
first invited us to visit them, which we did, as not to have done
so would have been a violent breach of plains etiquette, that
might cause a disruption of friendship.

In the Indian village, after our horses had been unpacked and
turned out to graze, Uncle Kit and Black Buffalo strolled about
among the lodges or wick-i-ups, of which there were something like
fifteen hundred. I followed very closely for I was mortally afraid
to get fifteen feet away from Uncle Kit, in that sort of company.

Black Buffalo did us the honor, that evening, to take us to his
own private wick-i-up for supper. It was a custom with this, and
many other tribes of Indians, that conveyed great distinction to
visitors, to kill and cook for them a nice fat dog. However, I was
not then aware that I was so distinguished a guest, as indeed
neither I nor Mr. Hughes would have been had we not been in the
company of Kit Carson. With him we shone by reflected greatness.

While we were out on our walk about the village, Black Buffalo's
cook was preparing this distinguishing feast for us.

I had kept unusually quiet all the time we were among the Indians,
not even asking one question, which was very remarkable in me. For
I presume that on the journey I had asked more questions to the
lineal mile than any boy ever had before.

But I ate the dog in silence and liked it. Of course I had no idea
what the meat was. So, Uncle Kit observing the gusto with which I
was devouring dog, asked me if I knew what the meat was. I told
him that I did not, but supposed it to be antelope, or buffalo. He
informed me that it was neither, but good, healthy dog.

I thought he was joking, and simply replied that it was mighty
good meat, even if it was dog, and gave the matter no further
reflection, at the time.

The next day, when Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes assured me that it was
really dog meat, we had eaten the night before, I felt very much
like throwing up everything I had eaten at the village, but it was
too late then.

After supper, that night in the Indian village, we had what was
called a "peace smoke." The Chief selected about a dozen of his
braves, and all being seated in a circle, two of our party on one
side of the Chief, and Uncle Kit at his right, a pipe was lit and
the Chief took one whiff, the smoke of which he blew up into the
air. He then took another whiff, and turning to his chief guest,
handed him the pipe, who blew a whiff into the air and the second
one into the face of the host. This performance having been gone
through with for each guest, the Chief then handed the pipe to the
first Indian on his right, and thus it went around the circle,
each Indian blowing a whiff into the air.

It was considered a great breach of etiquette to speak, or even
smile, during this ceremony.

This Indian village was situated at Pawnee Rock, on the Arkansas
river, in a beautiful valley, in what is now the southwest corner
of Benton Co., Kan. The wick-i-ups were made of poles set on ends,
gathered together at the top, and covered with buffalo skins from
which the hair had been removed.

The Kiowas were, at that time, the most numerous tribe of Indians
in the United States.

Early the next morning after our dog-feast and peace-smoke, our
party was up and off, and I was particularly glad to get away,
feeling that I would rather camp out and feed on buffalo,
antelope, jack-rabbits and wild turkey than dwell in the lodges of
Kiowas and be "honored" with banquets of the nicest dogs in all
that region.

We took the Santa Fe trail and the buffalo were so numerous along
the way that we had to take some pains to avoid them, as when they
were traveling or on a stampede, nothing could turn or stop them
and we would be in danger of being ground to atoms beneath their
thousands of hoofs.

In two days more of travel we reached another Indian village, on
another beautiful plain, in what is now Pawnee Co., Kan. Here the
country was so level that one could see for miles in any
direction, and the sun rising or setting, seemed to come up or go
down, as a great golden disk, out of or into the earth. We could
see many bands of wild horses feeding on the luxuriant grasses,
and little did I think, then, that I would live to see the day
when that broad and unfenced plain would be converted into homes
for hundreds of the pale-faced race.

We were met on the outskirts of the village by White Horse, Chief
of the Comanches, who, being an intimate friend of Uncle Kit,
shook hands with us and conducted us to his own wick-i-up. There
we unpacked the animals and piled up our goods, and White Horse
detailed an Indian to guard the packs day and night.

After our horses had been picketed out to grass, the Chief took us
into his lodge to dine with him, and here again we had boiled dog
and the peace smoke.

White Horse insisted upon our being his guests until morning, it
being about noon when we arrived, and as our horses were much
jaded we decided to give them the advantage of such a rest.

The Comanche Chief was most exceedingly hospitable, in his way,
and would not allow us to eat of our own provisions, but insisted
upon our eating with him, and "trotted" out the best "grub" he
had.

After breakfast the next morning our horses were brought in by the
Indians, who also helped us to pack, and we struck the trail
again, accompanied by White Horse and his daughter, who traveled
with us all that day and camped with us at night.

That evening Uncle Kit killed a fine buffalo calf, and I thought
it the best meat I had ever eaten--even better than dog.

The following morning the Chief and his daughter returned to the
village, and we proceeded on our journey.

That day, riding along on my crop-eared pony, about fifty yards
behind my companions, I chanced to look behind me and I saw what I
thought to be a man, walking on a hill towards us, and he appeared
to be at least twenty feet high. As he got further down the hill
he appeared to grow shorter, until, I thought, he went down a
ravine and out of sight.

I put spurs to Croppy and galloped up to Uncle Kit, and told him I
had seen the tallest man on earth, declaring that the man was at
least twenty feet high.

"An' you saw a man that high?" said Uncle Kit

"Indeed I did," I replied.

"Sure you saw him?" he asked.

"Yes, sir; and if you will watch you will see him come up out of
the ravine, directly."

Uncle Kit, laughing, said: "It was not a man you saw, my boy, but
a mirage," and he explained to me the phenomena, which I became
familiar with in the years that followed.

Sometimes the mirages present to the vision what appear to be men,
at other times bodies of water surrounded by trees, and often
houses and whole towns. They appear before you on the dryest
plains and then disappear as if the earth opened and swallowed
them.

Early in June we reached Bent's Fort and met there Col. Bent and
his son, Mr. Roubidoux and his son, and a man named James Bridger,
of whom you will see a great deal, later on in this narrative.
These men were all traders, buying furs and buffalo robes from
Indians, white hunters and trappers.

We remained at Bent's Fort six weeks, and often during that time
some one of the many hunters, trappers and traders, that made this
place their headquarters, would ask Uncle Kit what he was going to
do with that boy--meaning me. To all of which Carson would reply
"I'm goin' to make a hunter and trapper of him."

During the six weeks at the fort I was out nearly every day with
some of the men, and to me they gave the name of "Young Kit."

By the time we were ready to leave Bent's Fort, Young Kit became
quite a rider, and Uncle Kit had been training me in the dexterous
use of the rifle, shooting from my knee, lying on my back, resting
the gun on my toes, lying flat on my belly, resting the gun on my
hat, and in various other positions.

Having disposed of all our blankets, beads and all of the tobacco,
except what was reserved for home consumption, we left Bent's
Fort, crossed the Arkansas river and followed up Apishapa creek
three days, when we came to the Rocky Mountains, among which we
were during four days, passing Trinkara Peak then turning south
toward a little Mexican village called Taos, where Uncle Kit made
his home, he having a house of his own in that village.

On the morning after our arrival at Taos, Uncle Kit said to me at
breakfast:

"Willie, there are a lot of Mexican boys here who would like to
play with you."

Some of them were standing near in a group, gazing at me in much
wonderment.

"But," continued Uncle Kit, "you will have to learn to speak their
language in order to have much fun. Go with them if you wish, and
tell me to-night how many words you have learned."

Then he spoke to the group of boys in their own tongue and told
them I wished to play with them but couldn't speak their language,
and wanted to learn.

We had a jolly time that day in many boyish games that I had never
seen, and when I came home Uncle Kit asked me how many words I had
learned.

"Three," I replied.

"Splendid!" he exclaimed. "'Twont be long fo'you are a fus'-class
Mexican."

One evening, after we had been in Taos about two weeks, Uncle Kit
told me to put on my best suit and he would take me to a fandango.
I was not sure what a fandango was but was willing to experience
one, just the same, and, togged out in our best, we went to the
fandango, which was simply a Mexican dance. Sort of a public ball.

I looked on that night with much interest, but declined to
participate further than that. I learned better in a little while,
and the fandango, with the tinkle of guitars and mandolins, the
clink of the cavalleros' spurs, and the laugh and beauty of the
Mexican senoritas, became a great pleasure to me.

Thus began our life at the little Mexican town of Taos, the home
of that great hero of the West, Kit Carson.




CHAPTER III.

HUNTING AND TRAPPING IN SOUTH PARK, WHERE A BOY, UNAIDED, KILLS
AND SCALPS TWO INDIANS--MEETING WITH FREMONT, THE "PATH-FINDER."


One evening in October as I was getting ready to retire for the
night, Uncle Kit said to me:

"Now Willie, to-morrow you must put in the day moulding bullets,
for we must begin making preparations to go trapping."

This was pleasant news to me, for I had laid around so long with
nothing to do but skylark with those Mexican boys, that life was
getting to be monotonous.

The reader will understand that in those early days we had only
muzzle-loading guns, and for every one of those we had to have a
pair of bullet-moulds the size of the rifle, and before starting
out on an expedition it was necessary to mould enough bullets to
last several weeks, if not the entire trip, and when you realize
that almost any time we were liable to get into a "scrap" with the
Indians, you can understand that it required a great number of
these little leaden missiles to accommodate the red brethren, as
well as to meet other uses.

That evening after I had gone to bed, Mr Hughes said:

"Kit, what are you going to do with that boy?"

"What boy?" asked Uncle Kit, as if he were astonished.

"Why, Willie. What are you going to do with him while we are away
trapping?"

"Why, take him along to help us, of course."

"Thunderation!" exclaimed Hughes; "he will only be a bother to us
in the mountains."

I had been with Kit Carson three months, and this was the first
time I had seen him, apparently, out of humor. But at Hughes' last
remark, he said in a decidedly angry tone:

"Jim Hughes, I want you to understand that wherever I go that boy
can go, too, if he likes."

Hughes seeing that Carson did not like what he had said about
"that boy," turned the matter off by saying that he had only made
the remark to tease the boy.

Next morning Uncle Kit started a Mexican lad out to round up the
horses, and the next two days were spent in fixing up our pack-
saddles preparatory for the trip.

Our horses were as fat as seals, as there was no end to the range
for them in this part of the country.

All being in readiness we pulled out from Taos, four of us, Uncle
Kit, Mr. Hughes, myself and a Mexican boy named Juan. The latter
went along to bring our horses back home.

We crossed back over that spur of the Rocky Mountains that we had
came in through, and struck the Arkansas river near where Pueblo,
Colo., now stands, and from here we polled for the headwaters of
that river, carefully examining every stream we came to for beaver
sign.

We saw abundance of game on the trip, such as antelope, deer and
buffalo.

When we had traveled up the river about two days, Uncle Kit
thought it was not best to take the horses any further as the
country was now too rough for them, so we spent the next two days
caching our cargo.

As some may not know what a cache is, I will explain.

Cache is French for "hide." A hole is dug in the ground and the
things to be hidden are put in there and covered with brush, then
with dirt, then more brush and more dirt, and the whole is covered
with turf, to make the surface look as natural as possible, so
that it is not likely to be discovered by Indians at a distance.

We having about a thousand pounds of stores to cache, it was no
small job.

On the morning of the third day in this camp, we all started out
to kill some game for Juan to take back home. Mr. Hughes started
out in one direction and Uncle Kit and I in the opposite. We had
gone but a short distance, when, looking across a canyon, I saw a
herd of some kind of animals and asked Uncle Kit what they were.
He told me they were bison, and complimented me on having such
good eyes.

Bison, by the way, is the distinctive name in that region for
mountain buffalo, all buffalo belonging to the bison family.

We then started on a round-about way to try and get in gunshot of
the herd, in which we were successful. When we had got in gunshot
of them and he had pointed out the one for me to shoot at, he
said:

"Now take a rest on that big rock, and when I count three, pull
the trigger, and be sure that you break its neck."

The guns went off so near together that I turned and asked Uncle
Kit why he didn't shoot, too, for I did not think that he had
fired; but as soon as the smoke from our guns had cleared away, I
saw two bison kicking their last.

After dressing the animals we returned to camp and learned that
Mr. Hughes had killed two deer, which, with the two bisons, were
enough to load the pack-horses.

We were now in the extreme south end of South Park, which was
mostly a prairie country, except along the streams, and more or
less pine trees were scattered here and there along the hillsides.

Next morning we loaded the pack-horses with the game and Juan
started back home, alone, with the horses.

After we had seen him off, we rolled up our blankets and taking
enough provisions to last several days, we "packed up our packs"
and pulled out up the Arkansas again.

This, to me, was like breaking a colt to the saddle, only I didn't
buck.

Notwithstanding I had a light pack, for I was a light subject, it
was hard work for me. Mr. Hughes had been out the year before, and
being a grown man, it did not worry him as it did me. However, we
traveled very slowly, looking well all the time for beaver sign.

In the afternoon of the second day we came to where there was
plenty of beaver sign. In fact the trees they had gnawed down were
so thick that we could not travel along the river, but had to take
to the hillsides.

We camped that night at the mouth of a little stream that empties
into the Arkansas, and the following morning, after looking over
the trapping ground, the two men selected a place to build our
winter quarters, and we went to work. They worked at the cabin
while I killed the game for our meat and did the cooking, my
outfit being a frying-pan, a coffee-pot and a tin cup for each of
us.

They were about two weeks getting our cabin, or dugout, completed.
It was made by first digging out a place in the hillside, about
twelve feet square, and building up the front with logs, then
brush and pine boughs, and then the whole with dirt, the door was
made of hewed logs, fastened together with crossed pieces by means
of wooden pins, and it was hung on heavy wooden hinges.

Our winter quarters being thus completed, Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes
set out one morning for the cache, intending to return that same
evening. Before starting they told me to go out some time during
the day and kill a small deer, that I would be able to carry to
camp, and have a good lot of it cooked for supper, as they would
be very hungry when they returned that night. They started
sometime before daylight, and I stayed around the cabin, clearing
things up and cutting wood, until about ten o'clock, then cleaned
up my rifle and started out to kill the deer. It was an easy
matter to find one, for they were as thick in that country as
sheep on a mutton farm. But, boy-like, I wandered off up the
canyon about two miles before I found a deer that just suited me,
and I wanted to see the country, anyway.

At last I found a little deer that I thought about the right thing
and I killed and dressed it--or rather undressed it--threw it on
my shoulder and pulled for camp.

Instead of going the way I had come, I climbed out on the ridge to
avoid the down timber, that was so thick in the creek bottom, When
I was near the top of the ridge, I looked off a short distance and
saw three Indians, on foot, going down the ridge in the direction
of our dug-out.

I had often heard Uncle Kit tell how the Indians robbed the camps
of trappers and that they invariably burned the cabins.

As soon as I got sight of the Indians, I dropped back over the
ridge, for, luckily, they had not got sight of me. In a few
seconds I did some powerful thinking, and I came to the conclusion
that it would never do to let them find our dug-out, for while it
would hardly burn, they might carry off our bedding, or destroy
it. So I crawled up to a log, took good aim at the leader and
fired, striking him just under the arm, bringing him down. The
other two dropped to their knees, and looked all around, and I
suppose the only thing that saved me was the wind was coming from
them to me and blew the smoke from my gun down the canyon, so that
they did not see where the shot came from.

I heard Uncle Kit tell of lying on his back and loading his rifle,
when in a close place, so I did likewise and crawled up to my log
again. The remaining two Indians, having looked all around and
seeing no one, had got on their feet again, and were standing with
bow and arrow in hand, each having a quiver full of arrows on his
back, and if they had got sight of me that would have been the
last of Young Kit. But I took aim at one of them and fired, with
the same result as before. As my second Indian fell, the third one
started back up the ridge, in the direction from which they had
come, and if I ever saw an Indian do tall sprinting, that one did.
I watched him until he was out of sight, and then loaded my gun,
shouldered my deer and went to where the two Indians were lying.
They were both as dead as dried herring.

I had never seen an Indian scalped, but had often heard how it was
done, so I pulled my hunting-knife and took their top-nots, and
again started for the dug-out, a great hunter and Indian fighter,
in my own estimation.

I hung the scalps up inside the dug-out, directly in front of the
door, so that Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes would see them the first
thing on entering the cabin. Then I set about getting supper, all
the while thinking what a mighty deed I had done in saving our
cabin, which was probably true.

The two men did not return until after dark and they were very
tired and hungry, having walked forty miles that day, carrying on
the return trip a hundred pounds each. That is a heavy load for a
man to carry twenty miles, but they did it, and it was no uncommon
thing for the hardy frontiersmen of that day to perform like feats
of strength and endurance.

When they pushed open the heavy log door, the scalps were almost
in their faces.

"Who did this?" said Uncle Kit, as he threw his heavy pack on the
dirt floor.

I told him and he was very much astonished.

"How was it, Willie?" he asked, and I told him the whole story.

While I was telling him the story, as briefly as I could, he
showed more agitation than I had ever seen him exhibit.

During all the time I had been with him, he had never spoken a
harsh word to me, up to this time. But while we were at supper he
said to me:

"My boy, don't let me ever hear of you taking such chances again.
Not that I care for you killin' the Injuns, but you took great
chances for losing your own hair, for had them redskins got sight
of you, by the time they had got through with you, your hide
wouldn't have held corn shucks. And it's a mystery to me that they
didn't see you."

The following morning after breakfast we all took a trip up the
canyon, where I had gone the morning before, and we took with us
twelve beaver traps that they had brought up from the cache, and
these we set at different places along the stream.

After they were set Uncle Kit asked me if I thought I could find
all of them again, and I said I thought I could.

"All right then," he said. "It will be your job to tend these
traps, until Jim and me get the balance of the stuff packed up
from the cache. Now le's go and see your Injuns."

I took them to where I had shot the two Indians, and Uncle Kit, as
soon as he saw them, said:

"They are Utes, and the wust hoss-thieves on the waters of the
Colorado. Willie, I'm dog-goned glad you killed 'em. I would a
give the best boss I've got to a been here with you, for I think
Old Black Leg would a caught the other feller, afore he got to the
top o' the mountain."

"Black Leg" was Uncle Kit's pet name for his rifle.

That night, before going to bed, Uncle Kit said we must be up
early next morning, as he and Hughes would have to make another
trip to the cache, and that I must tend to the traps and keep a
sharp lookout for Indians "But whatever happens," he said, "don't
ever be taken prisoner."

They started very early the next morning, and as soon as it was
light I struck out to examine the traps. From the twelve I took
nine beaver, skinned them, reset the traps, returned to the dug-
out and stretched the skins.

The stretching is done by making a bow of a small willow or other
pliant wood, for each hide, and then pulling the hide over it. The
hides are thus left until they are dry, when the bows are taken
out and the hides are packed in a frame made for that purpose,
fifty in a bale.

All of this kind of work I had learned at Bent's Fort, while
there, from the many trappers there. Besides, Uncle Kit had given
me other lessons in the work.

Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes made a trip to the cache every other day
until the stuff was all packed up to our winter quarters.

I had my hands full attending to the traps, as the men brought
more of them on the second trip, and they set enough of them to
make double work for me. One dozen traps is called a "string," and
it is considered one man's work, ordinarily, to "tend a string."

The two men brought all the stuff up from the cache in five trips.
On the day the last trip was made, I went out early, as usual, to
attend to the traps, of which we had thirty-six. That morning I
took twenty-three beaver, and seeing that it would be impossible
for me to skin them all, I set about to carry them to the dug-out.
If ever a boy worked, I did that day, and had just got through
carrying them in when Uncle Kit and Mr. Hughes returned.

After we had got caught up with our work and rested a few days,
Uncle Kit said one morning that we must be out early next day and
get our work done so that we could go and kill some elk. "For,"
said he, "we have got to have meat for the winter and we must have
some hides for beds."

In those days the trappers made their beds by first constructing a
frame or rough bedstand, over which they stretched a green elk
hide, securing that by thongs or strings cut from a green deer
skin. By lying on these at once, before they are dry, they get
shaped to the body and they make a first-class bed for comfort.

We were out early to the traps next morning, and the catch being
somewhat smaller than usual, we got through by 11 o'clock, and
after eating a "snack"--a lunch--we started on the elk hunt.

After going about four miles we jumped up a band of fifty elk,
which was considered a small herd then. But we didn't get close
enough to shoot any of them.

"Let 'em go," said Uncle Kit; "no doubt they will go to the
quaking-asp grove, and we can git 'em to-morrow." So we returned
to camp without any elk. But the next morning we went to the
quaking-asp thicket, and there, sure enough, we found the same
band of elk, and succeeded in killing five of them. Thus we had
enough meat to last a year, if we had wanted that much, and we had
skins enough for our beds and moccasins for the winter.

Now we were in no danger of starving, and from now on we could
devote our whole attention to the traps.

I had to work very hard that winter, but I was much better
contented than when I was with Drake and in the grasp of that old
"nigger wench."

Not until now did I tell Uncle Kit of the prank I played on the
black tyrant. I also told him why I was so anxious to get away
from St. Louis. That it was I feared Drake would discover me and
take me back to his farm and the society of his slaves.

Mr. Hughes here interrupted me to say: "Well Willie, you are safe
enough from Drake and the wench, but I think by the time you get
out o' here in the spring, you would much rather be with them."

I assured him, however, that he was mistaken, and that I was bent
on being a hunter and trapper.

"And an Indian fighter?" he added.

"Yes, and an Indian fighter, too, if you like;" I replied.

Well, we remained at this camp all winter, not seeing a person
outside of our own crowd, and to take it on the whole, it was one
of the most enjoyable winters of my life. It being my first winter
in the mountains, I was learning something new every day, and
whenever I found the track of any wild animal that I was not
acquainted with, I would report to Uncle Kit, and he would go
miles with me to see the sign, and would take great pains to tell
me what sort of an animal it was and all about its nature and
habits.

This was one of the most successful winter's trapping he had ever
had, as we were on entirely new ground, where trapping had not
been done before, and, moreover, the weather was particularly
favorable.

Winter began to break up about a month earlier than usual, it
being toward the last days of March when the snow commenced going
off. We then took a pair of blankets each, and enough provisions
to last us on our trip, and started for Taos, the only kind of
provisions we had left being dried elk and venison. It was an easy
matter to cure meat in this style in that country, for the air is
so light that meat stuck upon the top of a pole eight or ten feet
high, will quickly become dried, or "jerked." Trappers seldom take
enough flour and coffee to last all winter, as it made too much
bulk and weight to pack so far. Sugar was almost unknown in a
trapper camp.

The second day after leaving the dug-out we met Juan, the Mexican
boy. He was not bringing our horses, but was carrying a letter for
Uncle Kit, from Col. John C. Fremont, asking him to come to Taos,
as he wished to employ him as guide for his expedition to
California.

That evening, after reading the letter, Uncle Kit said: "Willie, I
have got to go to California in the summer to pilot Col. Fremont
through. Do you want to go along?"

I said I was perfectly willing to go anywhere that he went.

He said: "We will pass through some mighty rough country, and also
through the country of the Utes. If you go, you will, no doubt,
have plenty of chances to try your hand at shootin' Injuns, for
them Utes are tough nuts."

That didn't scare me a bit, for I was now sixteen years' old, had
killed and scalped two Indians, and had already begun to consider
myself a hunter and Indian fighter from away back. Besides, when
the story of my killing the two Indians got out, I came to be
generally called "the boy scalper." But Uncle Kit never spoke of
me in that way, for he always respected me as a father would his
own son.

Now Uncle Kit was anxious to reach Taos and meet Col. Fremont, so
we pushed on with all possible speed until the third day from
where we met Juan with the letter, we met Col. Fremont at the
crossing of the Arkansas river. He had became over-anxious and had
started out to meet us.

It was late in the afternoon, so we went into camp and had supper,
which consisted of dried venison and water, but for breakfast we
had a change of diet, which was dried elk and water.

We learned that Col. Fremont had been detailed the summer before
by the government to command an exploring expedition across the
continent, and, if possible, find a better route from the "States"
to California.

It leaked out that some of the trappers who did not like to have
him in the neighborhood of Bent's Fort, for their own selfish
motives, had misinformed him that first summer out, as to the lay
of the country, hoping thereby to mislead him and his company into
the mountains, where they would get snowed in and die of
starvation.

Fremont and his party, consisting of twenty-eight men, had started
up the Black Canyon, and they did get snowed in and had to stop
for the winter.

They ran out of provisions and killed and ate some of their
horses, but the other horses died of starvation and six of the men
died of scurvy.

It being late when the Fremont party got into the mountains, and
the snow-fall being very deep, the game went early to the lowlands
and the men were forced to live on salt bacon and horse-flesh.
Even that became scarce and the entire company came near perishing
before spring.

In the camp with Col. Fremont that evening Uncle Kit and he made
their bargain. Carson was to furnish all the horses and was to
have the right to take as many extra men and horses as he liked,
also the right to trade for furs and send his men and their horses
back whenever he desired to do so,

After eating heartily of the dried venison and hearing Col.
Fremont's story of the dreadful experiences of his party in the
Black Canyon, it was bedtime, and each man rolled himself in his
blankets and soon all were sleeping, as tired men can, out on the
plains.

We had an early breakfast, each man's hunk of dried meat being
handy, so there was really no preparation to be made, except to
wash. No compulsion, however, as to that. But having distinguished
company, all hands washed this morning before squatting for
breakfast.

While we were eating, Fremont asked whose boy I was. Uncle Kit
replied that I was his boy, and "a first-class hunter and trapper,
and he shoots Injuns purty well, too." He then related the
incident of my killing the two Utes.

All arrangements having been made, Uncle Kit agreeing to meet Col.
Fremont at Bent's Fort in three weeks, they separated and we
pushed on for Taos. On arriving there Uncle Kit hired two Mexicans
to go back with Mr. Hughes to our beaver camp and get the furs,
and he gave instructions to take the furs to Santa Fe and dispose
of them. Uncle Kit then employed Juan and a Texan boy named John
West to assist us in fitting up for our California trip. So at the
end of three weeks we met Fremont at Bent's Fort as per agreement.

Fremont's company consisted of twenty-two men, and they were,
beyond doubt, the worst looking set of men I ever saw. Many of
them were scarcely able to walk from the effects of scurvy and
they were generally knocked out.

We had taken with us from Taos a pack-train loaded with
vegetables, such as potatoes, onions and the like, and after
Freemont's men had associated with those vegetables for a few
days, they came out fresh and smiling and were able to travel.

It was about the Middle of May, 1848, that we left Bent's Fort to
hunt a new route to the golden shores of California.

The first night out we camped at Fountain Qui Bouille--pronounced
Koh-boo-yah--and here a little incident occurred that created much
fun for all the party except one--that was me.

As soon as we went into camp, Carson told Johnnie West and me to
let Juan take our horses and for us to go out and kill some meat.

We started out in opposite directions, and I had not gone more
than a quarter of a mile when I saw a small deer, which I shot,
threw on my shoulder and pulled for camp. Only a few rods on the
way I came to a little mound of rock about three feet high, and from it
flowed a spring of the nicest looking, sparkling water I thought I had
ever seen. Being very thirsty, I made a cup of my hat by pinching the
rim together, dipped up some of the water and gulped it down, not
waiting to see whether it was hot or cold, wet or dry. But a
sudden change came over me. I felt a forthwith swelling under the
waistband of my buckskin breeches, and I seemed to have an
internal and infernal hurricane of gas, which in a second more
came rushing through my mouth and nostrils like an eruption from
Cotopaxi or Popocatapel. To say that I was frightened would be
putting it mild. I rushed down the hill like mad, and fairly flew
to camp and up to Uncle Kit, exclaiming as best I could, "I'm
poisoned!"

"Pizened?" said Uncle Kit.

"Yes, poisoned;" and just then another rush of gas came through my
nostrils.

When the men saw me running so fast they grabbed their guns,
thinking the Indians were after me, and quickly surrounded me to
hear what was the matter.

Uncle Kit asked me how I got poisoned, and I told him of the
spring water I had drank, and asked him if he could do anything to
save my life. Then there was another eruption.

Uncle Kit laughed harder than I had ever seen him, but he told me,
as fast as he could, that I had drank from a soda spring and that
it would not hurt me. Everybody laughed and then all went to the
spring to get some of the "poisoned water," which was very good
when taken in reasonable quantities and in a reasonable way.

My gun, deer and hat were all lying near the spring, and I secured
them, but it was many a day before I heard the last of the "pizen-
spring."

Johnnie West came in soon after, having missed all the fun, and
Juan and I went with him, taking each a horse, and packed the game
into camp.

I was anxious to get away from camp on that little packing trip,
hoping the crowd would forget all about the soda-spring before I
returned, but I hoped in vain, for when I returned they laughed at
and joked me more than ever.

We traveled up the Arkansas river nearly a hundred miles, and as
we neared the snow-line the deer and elk were more plentiful and
we never went hungry for meat.

At Jimmie's Fork we turned to the left and followed that stream to
its head, then crossed over to the Blue river, which is a
tributary of the Colorado. Now we were in the Ute country, and had
to keep a sharp lookout for Indians. Every evening, after making
camp, Uncle Kit would climb to the top of the highest hill near us
to look for Indian camps, as it was an easy matter late in the
evening to discover their camps by the smoke from their fires. He
used to take me along with him, and he would point out different
landmarks in the country and would tell me to make close
observations, as I would have to return, without him, over the
same route and if I were not careful I might lose my way.

On the third day after crossing the divide, we met Tawson, chief
of the Apache tribes. Tawson had never met Carson but knew him by
reputation; but a number of the warriors were personally
acquainted with him.

The Indians all turned about and rode back with us to their
village, which was only a short distance away.

Uncle Kit being able to speak Spanish, as were all the Indians in
that country, he had quite a talk with the old chief, and in the
meantime he had bought all the furs the Indians had to sell.

When we were ready to start from the village, Carson said in
Spanish:

"Now, Tawson, I have always been a friend to your tribe and I will
tell you what I'm going to do. In about one moon I will start this
boy back through your country, with the horses and two other boys-
-referring to Juan and West--and if anything happens to them while
passing through your country I will hold you personally
responsible."

The chief having heard a great deal of Carson, knew he meant just
what he said.

The third day after leaving the Apache village we reached the
Colorado river, and we had a hard time finding a suitable place to
cross. Finally we decided to build a raft of logs and ferry our
stuff on that, and swim the horses. This we did successfully, and
also cached the furs to keep them safe until my return.

As soon as we crossed the river we began to see signs of the Ute
Indians, and Uncle Kit told me to keep my rifle in trim as I might
need it soon.

The second day after crossing the river, about 4 o'clock in the
afternoon, and just as we had gone into camp, a band of about
forty Indians made a dash for our horses. This was the first time
I had ever heard the war-whoop, and it fairly made my hair stand
on end. Some of our crowd had seen the Indians while yet a
distance off, and when the men yelled "Indians! boys, Indians!" I
made a bee-line for Croppy, who had by this time fed himself away
about fifty yards from camp. When Col. Fremont saw me start on the
run, he asked me where I was going. I told him that I was going
for my pony as I didn't intend that the Utes should get him.

By the time I got to Croppy I could see the Indians coming, full
tilt, and some of the men had already fired upon them. I got back
to camp as fast as I could get Croppy to go, and when in a few
yards of the camp, I took a rest off of his back and fired, but I
missed my Indian. I reloaded as quickly as possible and laid my
gun on Croppy's back again, for another shot, and just then it
struck me that the reason I missed the first time was because I
didn't take good aim.

Uncle Kit had always taught me that it was not the fastest
shooting in an Indian fight that did the most execution, and that
it was better to fire one shot with good aim than four at random.

When I went to shoot the second time, Uncle Kit was near me, and
he said:

"Take good aim, Willie, before you fire."

I did take good aim and had the satisfaction of seeing the Indian
tumble to the ground. But whether I killed him or some one else
did, I could not say, for an absolute certainty, but I have always
thought he belonged to my list.

The Indians were no match for Col. Fremont's men, being only armed
with bows and arrows, and they beat a hasty retreat, closely
followed for a distance by the soldiers, who, however, did not get
any Indians on the run,

When the men returned to camp, and, as usual, after a scrap with
Indians, were telling how many red-skins they had killed, Uncle
Kit turned to me and asked how many I had got. I said, "one."

"Are you sure?" he asked.

"Well," I said, "I took a rest off of Croppy's back; with a good
aim. at the crack of my rifle, the Indian came down."

The crowd went with me to where I had seen the Indian fall, and
there he was, as useless for Indian work as Powhattan is.

Col. Fremont then asked the soldiers where were their dead
Indians, and Uncle Kit said:

"I reckon Willie is the only one that got his man. Didn't I tell
you, Colonel, that he could shoot Injuns?"

However, after looking around awhile, he found five more dead
Indians, and, doubtless, more were killed but were carried away by
their companions.

The only harm the Indians did our party was to wound two of
Fremont's men, slightly.

This was the last trouble we had with the Utes on the trip.

The second day from this little brush we struck a village of
Goshoot Indians, and there Uncle Kit bought enough furs to make
out his cargo.

We went into camp here for the night, but Uncle Kit and I did not
sleep much, as we were up very late as we did not expect to meet
again until the next spring, and he had a great deal to tell me
before we parted.

The following morning Johnnie West, Juan and I loaded up and
started for Santa Fe, and Uncle Kit went on to Los Angeles with
Col. Fremont, as guide.

Before I left camp that morning, Col. Fremont, unbeknown to Uncle
Kit, came to me and said:

"Willie, in about a year from now I will be on my way back to St.
Louis, and I will take you home with me if you would like to go. I
will send you to school and make a man of you. You are too good a
boy to spend your life here, in this wild country."

But I told him I was perfectly satisfied to remain with Kit
Carson.

Had Uncle Kit known of that conversation I think he would have
been very much displeased, and it might have caused serious
trouble. Therefore I kept my own counsel and did not mention the
matter to Carson.

Us boys were four weeks making the return trip to Santa Fe, and we
did not see a hostile Indian on the way. I wondered much at that,
but a year or two afterward Uncle Kit told me that the Apaches saw
us every day and were protecting us, for he had seen Tawson on his
return and the chief told him that we had gone through safe.

We arrived at Santa Fe about the first of October, and there I met
Jim Hughes, who was waiting our arrival, and I was very glad to
see him. I gave him a letter that Uncle Kit had sent him
concerning our trapping for the coming winter.

Mr. Hughes said that he was glad that we had got back so early,
for it was time we were getting into the mountains for our winter
work.

I asked him if we would trap in the same place as the winter
before, and he said we would not, as he had brought all the traps
out to Taos, and we would go the next winter up to North Park, as
he had just returned from there and knew we could put in a good
winter's work, as it was new trapping ground that had not been
worked, and it was a fine country, too.

Soon as we had got rid of our furs, which Mr. Hughes had sold
before our arrival, we pulled out for Taos and begun operations
for going to North Park.

All being in readiness in a few days thereafter, Mr. Hughes,
Johnnie West had started for the new trapping ground, taking Juan
along, again, to fetch our horses home. We had to travel over some
rough country on the way, but found the North Park a fine region,
with scattering pine timber on the hills and quaking-asp and
willows along the streams. I have been told that this park is now
owned by sheep men, and it is an excellent region for their
business.

After looking around over our trapping field Mr. Hughes selected a
suitable place for our winter cabin, and we fell to work building
it. This time we built entirely above ground with pine logs, an
unusual thing for trappers to do.

As soon as our cabin was built, Juan returned to Taos with the
horses and we set into our winter's employment.

In those days hunters never wore boots or shoes, but moccasins
from the tanned hides of elk. This winter we made enough gloves
and moccasins to last us for two years, and each made himself a
buckskin suit, out and out.

Game was very plentiful in that country, such as moose, elk and
deer, and early in the winter a few mountain buffalo.

We were successful this winter, our beaver catch being nearly
eight hundred. The winter was also an unusually long one, lasting
until far into April.

After the snow had gone off so that we could travel, Jim Hughes,
who had been our foreman, in the absence of Carson, asked me if I
thought I could find the way back to Taos, which I said I could.
He said that one of us would have to go and get our horses to pack
the furs in on.

It was now the spring of 1849 and I was seventeen years old, but
it looked to me to be a big undertaking for a boy of my age, a
trip of three hundred miles, a foot and alone, with my rifle and
blankets; but some one had to go, and I agreed to tackle the trip.

This was on Saturday, and as we never worked on Sundays, except to
tend the traps, Mr. Hughes and Johnnie West talked the matter over
and decided that before I started away we had better cache the
furs and such traps as they would not use in my absence. This was
done, so that in the event of their being killed by the Indians, I
could find the furs on my return. It was a wise conclusion, as
will be seen later on.

It was the custom of the Utes to cross over the mountains in small
squads every spring and kill all the trappers they could find and
take their traps and furs.

On Monday morning we all set about to cache the furs and traps
that would not be used, and it took two days hard work to
accomplish the task. Then I made preparations to start on my
journey to Taos.

Mr. Hughes thought that as it would be a long and tedious trip, I
had better rest up a day or two before starting, but I thought
that as I had to make the trip I might as well begin first as
last, so Wednesday morning was set as the time for my start.




CHAPTER IV,

A WINTER IN NORTH PARK--RUNUPS FIGHT WITH A BAND OF UTES FOR MOKE
THAN A HUNDRED MILES, ENDING HAND TO HAND--VICTORY.


On the day set for my departure, having had our breakfast, Mr.
Hughes stepped outside of the cabin, and I was just rolling up try
blankets and a piece of dried venison, and Johnnie West was
sympathizing with me over the long and lonesome trip that was
before me, when all of a sudden Mr. Hughes came bounding into the
cabin and exclaimed.

"Get your guns and knives, boys. The Indians are upon us and we
must run for our lives."

Each man sprang for his gun, and by this time the Indians were in
sight of the cabin and had raised the war-whoop, which, again,
raised the hair on the head of your humble servant.

We made for the top of the hill, which was about one hundred and
fifty yards from the cabin, and slopped The Indians were by this
time at the cabin. Johnnie West counted them and said there were
twenty-seven all told.

We each fired a shot among them, but could not tell whether we
killed any of them or not. We then started on the run, loading our
guns as we ran, the Indians in hot pursuit of us.

After running about two miles, Jonnie West proposed that we make a
stand. We stopped on a little ridge, and did not have to wait long
until the Indians were in gun-shot of us.

"Now, Willie," said Mr. Hughes, "don't get excited and shoot too
quick, but take good aim and be sure that you get your Indian."

As they came up, each of us selected our Indian, fired and each
got his man. In a moment the smoke from our guns had cleared away,
and the whole band being in sight, Mr. Hughes said:

"Let's run for our lives. There are too many of them for us." And
run we did, loading as we flew.

We ran about five miles and made another stand, but not with the
same success as before, for we only got one Indian.

We had a running fight all that day and made three or four stands,
but could not tell how many Indians we killed, for we would fire
at them and then load our guns on the run. They having nothing but
loose arrows and tomahawks, we could easily keep out of danger.
But they figured on running us down.

That evening near sundown, Mr. Hughes asked me, as I was a little
faster on foot than the rest, to drop back far enough to count
them, which I did, and found there were eleven of them still in
pursuit of us.

When they saw me behind the other two they started the war-whoop
and did their best to overtake me, no doubt thinking I was tired
out and that the other two had left me. But they were disappointed
when I ran on and overtook my friends.

We were now in sight of a large body of timber, and Mr. Hughes
thought that if we could reach that by dark we might be able to
dodge the Indians and get away from them.

We reached the timber just at dark and tried very hard to dodge
our pursuers, but it seemed as though they could scent us like
blood-hounds, for we would no more than get stopped and lie down
to rest, when they would be upon us.

A number of times during the night we would build up a fire and
then go a hundred yards or so from it and lie down to rest, but
the redskinned devils kept close to us, and, conseqently, we got
but little rest during the night.

The following morning we left the timber and took to the prairie.
After running some four miles we looked back and saw four Indians
very near to us and gaining at every step. Johnnie West proposed
that we stop and accommodate them, saying that he felt hungry and
tired enough to fight any two Indians in the band. So each man
selected his Indian and fired, and we succeeded in killing two of
them; the remaining two hid behind some big rocks until the others
came up and, again we were compelled to flee.

We ran for about two hours, when we stopped and made another fight
and killed two more Indians. This was kept up until late in the
afternoon, which made two days and one night that we had been
chased by these savages, with not a bite to eat during the whole
time, and we were getting so tired that we could scarcely raise
the trot.

We were now running down a long slope, when I looked at Mr. Hughes
and could see a change in his countenance. There was an expression
different from that which I had ever seen on his face before. Just
about a half mile ahead of on down a little flat, was a wash-out,
and Mr. Hughes said:

"Right down there by that little bunch of willows, at that wash-
out, is where I intend to make my last fight, Now you boys can do
as you please, but I am exhausted and can go no further."

Before we got to the wash-out, Johnnie West told Mr. Hughes to run
straight for the patch of willows, also telling me to turn to the
right, while he took to the left, and as soon as we were in the
wash-out for me to run to where Mr. Hughes was. This was to be
done to cause the Indians to scatter so they would not all be on
us at once, there now being seven of them in the gang.

Johnnie West told me to take a bandy-shanked-fellow on the left
and he would take one who had two feathers in his hair.

"All right," said Mr. Hughes, "and I'll take the leader."

We all took good aim and each of us brought down his Indian, but
we did not have time to load before the others were upon us, and
it ended m a hand-to-hand fight, besides it got to where each man
had to look out for himself

One of the Indians came straight for me and dealt me a desperate
blow with his tomahawk, but I threw up my left hand and received a
severe cut in my wrist--the mark of which I carry to this day--at
the same time I struck him with my knife and almost cut him in two
As he was falling he threw his tomahawk at me with all the
vengeance in him, but missed my head and struck a rock just behind
me. I sprang at once and picked it up.

Mr. Hughes was fighting one of the Indians; the other two had
attacked Johnnie West, who was on his back with his head against
the bank of the wash-out, and they were trying to get a chance to
deal him a blow, but he was kicking at them with both feet and was
striking so fast with his knife that they had not yet been able to
get a lick in on him.

They were so busily engaged with Johnnie that I sprang at once,
unseen by them, and buried the tomahawk so deep in the head of one
of them that I was unable, for the moment, to recover it. As soon
as my Indian was out of the way, Johnnie was on his feet, quick as
the twinkling of an eye, and stabbed the remaining one through the
heart with his hunting-knife.

In the meantime Mr. Hughes was having a hard fight with his
Indian. He succeeded in killing the red fiend but got badly used
up. He had a severe wound in the shoulder, also one in the thigh.
I received a cut in the wrist, and Johnnie West did not get a
severe wound, in fact but little more than a scratch.

The fight and flight being now ended, we went a few rods to a
little clump of pine trees, where Mr. Hughes dropped down and
said: "Boys, there's no use of talking, I can't go any further; I
think I have done my last trappin' and Injun fightin'."

I gathered some limbs and chunks and started a fire, while Johnnie
pulled Mr. Hughes' moccasins off and bathed his feet and legs with
cold water. They were swollen almost to twice their usual size.

The fire being started, Johnnie proposed that we lie down and take
a nap and a rest before starting out to hunt for meat, saying it
was impossible for him to stand on his feet any longer. "My legs,"
said he, "are swollen clear to my body." I was too hungry to
sleep, so I proposed that Johnnie stay and care for Mr. Hughes and
I would take my gun and go out and kill some game, which was
plentiful in this part of the country. I had not gone more than a
quarter of a mile when I looked up the ridge and saw a small deer
coming down almost in the direction of where I stood, and never
before in my life had I cast my eyes on a living animal that
pleased me so much as did that one I waited until he was in
gunshot and fired. It ran about one hundred yards in the direction
of camp and fell dead I dressed it, cut off its head and carried
it to camp, and it was all I could do to get along with it in my
half-famished condition

I found Hughes and West both sound asleep by the fire It was not
long before I had some of the venison cooked, and I had it
fashionably rare, at that. After I had wakened my companions and
we had broiled and eaten venison for a time, Johnnie and I rolled
some logs together and gathered pine knots and made a good fire.
Then we broiled more venison and ate again, until we got sleepy
and fell over by the side of the fire, lost to ourselves and
Indians. During the night we all woke up again, cooked and ate as
long as we could keep our eyes open, and by sun-up next morning
there was not enough of that little deer left to feed a cat.

We found ourselves very sore and stiff from the effects of our
run, but Mr. Hughes thought we were about one hundred miles nearer
Taos than when we started, as we had been running most of the time
in that direction, and this was some consolation.

We remained here and rested two days, and as game was plentiful we
did not have to go far from the camp to get all the meat we
wanted.

On the morning of the third day we started for Taos, which was
about two hundred miles away, but all being so badly worn out and
Mr. Hughes having such severe wounds, we had to travel slowly, it
taking us about two weeks to make the trip. But we had no more
trouble with the Indians.

At Taos we met Uncle Kit Carson, who had been waiting our arrival
for two weeks. After resting up for a few days, Uncle Kit, Johnnie
West and myself started for North Park to pack out the furs. Mr.
Hughes stayed at Taos, as he was too badly wounded to accompany us
on the trip.

On our arrival at North Park we found everything just as we had
left it, except that the traps, which we had not cached with the
furs, had been stolen.

On our return trip we camped one evening in a beautiful little
valley where the grass was knee high, and along the little stream
were green quaking-asp, alder and willows, with scattering pine
trees here and there on the hills and in the valley. About sundown
that evening the horses commenced to show signs of uneasiness and
occasionally they would raise their heads and look in the
direction of a little pine grove near by, and snort. Johnnie West,
being the first to notice it, said: "Kit, what is the matter with
the horses? I believe there are Indians around."

"I don't think so," said Carson, "for I havn't seen any sign of
Injuns today."

Shortly after dark that night Uncle Kit went out about fifty yards
from camp in the direction of the horses, taking with him neither
his gun or his pistol, which was a rare thing for him to do. Just
as he was passing around a pine tree a panther sprang at him from
the tree. On hearing the rustle in the limbs, Carson jumped back
from the tree as far as he could and thus avoided the full force
of the blow from the panther. As he jumped back he drew his knife
and had a hand-to-hand fight with the huge feline and succeeded in
killing it.

Johnnie and I sat at the camp-fire, knowing nothing of the affair
until Uncle Kit came in, covered with blood from head to foot, and
his heavy buckskin shirt, which had no doubt been the means of
saving his life, was torn almost into strings. When he told us he
had been engaged in a fight with some kind of a wild animal,
Johnnie asked why he did not call for help, and his reply was that
he did not have time to call as he had his hands full with the
"varmint."

After we had dressed his wounds as best we could, we took a torch
and went to the foot of the pine tree, and there lay the panther,
dead. He had stabbed it to the heart.

Uncle Kit had a very bad wound in one thigh, also in one arm, so
we did not move camp next day, but the day after we proceeded on
our journey. We took our furs to Santa Fe, where we disposed of
them at a good price, furs being higher that season than usual.

Our furs being disposed of we returned to Taos and rested for
about two weeks.




CHAPTER V.

ON THE CACHE-LA-POUDRE.--VISIT FROM GRAY EAGLE, CHIEF OF THE
ARAPAHOES.--A BEAR-HUNTER IS HUNTED BY THE BEAR.--PHIL, THE
CANNIBAL.


Uncle Kit, having made quite a sum of money, concluded that he
would take a trip over to the headwaters of the Cache-la-Poudre to
look for a new field where he could trap the coming winter on a
large scale, and wanted Johnnie and I to accompany him, which we
did.

Each taking a saddle-horse and one pack animal, we started on the
trip, taking a new route to Uncle Kit, as well as to Johnnie and
myself.

Carson took the lead, for, like a deer, he could find his way
anywhere he wished to go.

We crossed the Arkansas river above Bent's Fort, and from here we
traveled along the foothills of the Rocky Mountains, striking the
Platte at the mouth of Cherry creek, which is now the center of
Denver City, Colo. Here we met Mountain Phil--of whom you will
hear more in this narrative. He was living in a wick-i-up and had
a squaw for a wife. Uncle Kit and I, being acquainted with him,
stopped and had a chat with him while our horses were feeding.
Uncle Kit asked him what he intended to do the coming winter, and
he replied:

"I will trap for you if you like, but you will have to furnish me
with an outfit, for I have none of my own."

"All right, Phil," said Carson, "I will give you a job, but you
will have to stop alone, for none of my men will live with you."

"All right," said Phil, "me and Klooch will be enough to stop in
one cabin, anyway."

These things being understood we rode off, Mountain Phil agreeing
to meet us at Taos about two months from that time.

After we rode away I asked Uncle Kit why no one would live with
Mountain Phil. His reply was, "Phil is a very bad man, and I yet
have to hear the first man speak a good word for him."

Late that afternoon we saw a little band of Indians--ten in
number--coming toward us, and when near them we saw that they were
Arapahoes and Gray Eagle, the chief, was with them. Uncle Kit
being well acquainted, all shook hands, and the chief insisted on
our going to their camp and staying all night with them. Uncle Kit
knowing the nature of the Indians, and knowing that Gray Eagle
would take it as an insult if we should refuse to visit him,
turned about and went home with him. He sent two of his men ahead
to the village, and we were met by about five hundred warriors
with all the women and children of the village. Just at the outer
edge of the village we were honored with what they considered a
great reception.

Gray Eagle took us to his own wick-i-up, his men taking charge of
our horses and packs. I had learned to speak the Arapahoe language
fairly well and could understand anything they said. When supper
time came, Gray Eagle came to Uncle Kit and said: "I have a great
feast for you; my men have killed a very fat dog; supper is ready,
come in and eat."

I remarked to Uncle Kit as we were going to supper, that I was
very glad we came home with Gray Eagle, for it had been a long
time since I had had a good meal of dog.

Supper being over, the chief got his pipe and selected six men
from his tribe and we had a peace-smoke, and he and Uncle Kit
smoked and talked nearly all night. During their conversation that
night he said that Mountain Phil was a very bad man, and that he
would often steal their horses and sell them to the Comanches.

Next morning after breakfast our horses were brought in, saddled
up and we were off on our journey again to Cache-la-Poudre.

It might be of interest to our readers to know how this stream
acquired its name. There was a Frenchman by the name of Virees
Roubidoux camped on the stream spoken of, with a little squad of
men; they were attacked by a band of Indians, and the first word
uttered by Roubidoux was "Cache-la-poudre," which means in
English, "hide the powder," and from that time on the stream has
been so called.

We arrived at our proposed trapping field, and after looking over
the country we found plenty of beaver sign along the streams and
game in abundance, and Uncle Kit decided that there was room
enough for four camps.

We returned by the way of Bent's Fort, as Uncle Kit wished to
employ the best men he could get to trap for him the coming
winter. On our way to the fort, which was four hundred miles from
the proposed trapping ground, Uncle Kit told me that he would have
to leave me in charge the coming winter, as he was going to the
City of Mexico on business, but said that he would come out and
get the camps established and return to Taos with the horses
before going there.

We found plenty of men at Bent's Fort, and, as usual, they were
all broke, having squandered the money earned the winter before
for whiskey and card playing. Uncle Kit experienced no trouble in
getting all the men he wanted, but had to furnish them with traps
and provisions--which took considerable money--he to have half of
the furs caught by each of them. Everything being understood we
returned to Taos, the men agreeing to meet us there two weeks
later. They were all on hand at the appointed time, but there
being a large party to outfit it took some weeks to make
preparations for the trip, there being eleven in the crowd. It was
about the last of October when we arrived at the trapping-ground
ready to begin work.

There was a man in the crowd named Charlie Jones, who was an old
friend of Johnnie West, and they and I lived in the same cabin
that winter. One morning after we had got fixed up comfortably in
our winter quarters and Uncle Kit had returned to Taos with the
horses, Charlie Jones waked us up very early, saying that there
was a light snow and he thought we would be able to get a bear if
we got out early. We rolled out, got breakfast and were off as
soon as it was light enough to see.

There were three small ridges, all pointing to our cabin; Johnnie
West took up the right-hand ridge, Charlie Jones the left and I
the middle one. The ridges were open, with scattering pine trees
here and there, but along the creek was heavy timber and a dense
growth of underbrush. While walking along up the ridge, keeping a
sharp lookout for bear, I came in sight of Johnnie West, who
beckoned me to cross over to where he was, saying that in the
thicket, which covered about an acre of ground, there was a small
bear. I proposed calling Charlie Jones over before entering the
thicket, but Johnnie said no, as it was such a small bear that
Charlie would get mad and would not speak to either of us for a
week if we should call him over for such a little bear, "and if we
cannot kill that bear," he continued, "we had better quit the
mountains."

We both cocked our guns and started into the brush side by side.
When near the center of the thicket I saw the bear raise on its
haunches. The snow was falling from the bushes so thickly that it
was almost impossible to get a bead on him, but I fired, anyway,
and hit too low, thus failing to bring him down,

He made a rush for us, but Johnnie had saved his charge in case I
failed to kill, but the snow was falling from the bushes so fast
and thick that he could not get a shot at the bear as he rushed
for us, so we were both compelled to flee for our lives, Johnnie
to the hillside, while I took down the canyon, jumping the small
logs and falling over the large ones and riding down the brush,
while I could almost feel the bear's breath on my posterior at
every jump, and had it not been that West had saved his charge,
you would now be reading some other book--certainly not this one,
as it would never have been written.

Just as we crossed a little opening, Johnnie fired, the ball
cutting Bear's jugular vein and also his windpipe, but the bear
still seemed to have a "hankering" after me and kept coming for
several yards.

After its windpipe was severed, the bear made a louder noise than
ever, but not knowing the cause, I thought he was nearer me and I
strained every nerve and fibre of my body to widen the distance
between us, as I almost imagined his teeth clashing down on me,
while Johnnie West was yelling: "Run, Willie; run for your life!"

Well I rather think I was running some about that time, for just
then I came to a big log, and I jumped, climbed and fell over it,
in fact, I never knew exactly how I did get over it; however, I
fell on one side of the log, utterly exhausted, and the bear, not
being able to get over, fell on the other side and died.

Of all the hunting and Indian fighting I have ever done, I never
had anything to scare me as did that little, insignificant bear.

Charlie Jones, hearing the two shots and Johnnie yelling for me to
run, came to the scene and had no little fun with me for running
from so small a bear, saying: "If a little bear like that were to
come at me, I would take it by the tail and beat its brains out
against a tree."

By the time the boys got the bear dressed, I had recovered
sufficiently from my run and excitement to help carry the meat to
the cabin, which was only a few rods away, as in our foot-race we
had been running in direction of the camp. The boys had a great
deal of sport at my expense, and many times during the winter I
was reminded of the bear hunt, in which the bear hunted me.

After we had got everything nicely fixed up in our new quarters,
Johnnie West one evening got down his sachel, took out a book and
sat and read till bed time. The following evening when he took the
book up again, I asked him what he was reading, and he said,
"Robinson Crusoe." I asked him why he did not read aloud so the
rest of us could hear, and he did read aloud until bed time. I
told him I would give anything if I could read as he did. So he
said if I would try to learn, he would teach me to read that
winter as good as he could. I assured him there would be nothing
lacking on my part, so the next night I took my first lesson. At
that time I did not know all the letters, but I was determined to
learn to read. In a very short time I had learned all my letters,
and being possessed of a great memory, I learned very fast, and
Johnnie, seeing I was so determined in the matter, spared no pains
in teaching me, and by the next spring I could read Robinson
Crusoe myself. Having a start, I could learn of my own accord, and
to Johnnie West I am greatly indebted for the limited education I
now possess; and were he now living I could not express to him my
gratitude for his labors as my tutor in that lonely wilderness,
hundreds of miles from any white man's habitation. And, although
my education is quite limited, yet what little I do possess has
been of great value to me through life.

We had good success trapping this winter, until about the first of
January, when we had an unusual heavy fall of snow in the
mountains which drove all the game to the lowlands, nothing being
left that was fit for meat except a few mountain sheep, and the
snow made it very inconvenient getting around to attend to the
traps. In the latter part of February I asked Charlie Jones one
day to go down to Mountain Phil's camp and see if there was
anything that he wanted, as we had kept all the extra supplies at
our camp. Mountain Phil and his Klooch--that being the name he
called his squaw, which is also the Arapahoe name for wife--were
staying alone about ten miles further down the country from where
we were located.

On Charlie Jones' return, he said: "It seems that Mountain Phil
has been faring better than any of us, for he has been able to
kill his meat at camp, thereby saving him the trouble of having to
get out and hunt for it."

Johnnie and I did not understand what he meant by this. So, after
hesitating a moment, Jones said: "Boys, If I should tell you what
I know about Mountain Phil, you would not believe it, but as sure
as you live he has killed his squaw and eaten most of her, and he
has left his camp."

We insisted that he must be mistaken, but he declared that he was
not, saying he had seen the bones in the cabin, and further
investigation had developed the fact that he had beyond any doubt
killed and eaten his Indian wife.

From that time on, Mountain Phil went by the name of the American
Cannibal until his death, which was--if my memory serves me right-
-in 1863 or '64, at Virginia City, Mont.

After the snow had settled so that a person could travel on top of
it, I took my gun and stole out one day to see if I could not kill
a mountain sheep. As I clambered up the mountain I looked about
one hundred yards or so ahead of me on a cliff of rock, and saw a
panther, which I supposed was looking out for the same kind of
game that I was. I fired and killed her the first shot and started
to skin her, when I heard the kittens, or young panthers, crying
up in the rocks near where I had shot the old one. My first
thought then was what a nice pet I would have if I could only get
hold of those young panthers. I was afraid to crawl into the cave
for fear the other old panther might come in on me, so I cut a
forked stick and twisted in their fur and in that way managed to
pull them out, all the time keeping a sharp lookout for the other
old one. I took the two young panthers to the cabin and made pets
of them. They grew to be very watchful; nothing could move without
their knowing it. The female grew to be very tame, and a more
affectionate creature I never saw. But it was different with the
male. When he was six months old he got to be very cross, and I
had to keep him tied up. One day I went out to feed them and he
drew back and slapped me, and I shot him on the spot with my
pistol. The female I kept until she was considerably over a year
old, when I sold her for one hundred dollars to an Englishman
named Mace, and had I only known it, that panther was worth five
hundred dollars. I had taught her many tricks.

She could count ten, by putting her paw on the ground ten times,
and would do various other tricks, but when asked by any other
person than her master to perform, she would shake her head and
would not allow any one else to touch her. I always tied her up
when going out for a hunt, and when I would return she would cry
and scream so shrill that it would almost raise the hat on a man's
head until I would untie her. She never was contented until she
could get to lick my face, and I never saw a dog more watchful
than she.

It was in the month of April that Uncle Kit came in with a pack-
train for the furs, the snowfall having been so heavy that he
could not get in earlier. Our catch had been light, as we had more
snow that winter than has ever been known before or since in the
history of that country. Uncle Kit was, however, very well
satisfied with our work, with the exception of Mountain Phil, whom
he had furnished for the winter, and who had not caught a beaver.
We soon had our traps and furs together, loaded up and were on our
way to New Mexico.

The third day about noon we reached the Cache-la-Poudre, where we
again ran on to the American Cannibal. We stopped here to let our
horses feed and to partake of some refreshments ourselves. Uncle
Kit, after giving Mountain Phil a lecture for his past conduct,
said:

"Phil, if ever you and I are out together in the mountains and run
short of provisions, I will shoot you down as I would a wolf,
before you get hungry."

Phil asked him why he would do so, and Carson replied: "Because I
wouldn't take the chances of being killed and eaten up by a
cannibal like you."

It might be well to give a brief description of this cannibal. He
was a large, raw-boned man, who would weigh about two hundred and
fifty pounds, though he was not very fleshy. He always wore his
hair long and never combed it, also wore his beard long and never
sheared or combed that. His hair grew down on his forehead almost
to his eyes. In fact he looked more like an animal than a human
being.

Three days' travel brought us to South Platte, where we crossed
the river and made camp on a little stream called Sand Creek. It
was our custom to stake our saddle horses out at night as near
camp as good grass could be found. The following morning Johnnie
West and myself had been out after the pack animals, and on our
return when within about a quarter of a mile from camp, we heard a
rumbling noise that sounded like a band of buffalo in a stampede.
We looked off to our right and saw a large herd of horses, driven
by seven Ute Indians, who were pushing them at the greatest
possible speed. We urged our horses in the direction of camp as
fast as possible. As soon as we were in sight of camp, we gave the
alarm and every man sprang to his gun, mounted his horse and was
ready to receive them. The Indians did not see us until they had
run the herd of horses almost into our camp. Our saddle horses
being fresh, we succeeded in killing the seven Indians before they
got far away, and captured the herd of horses, which proved to be
a herd they had stolen from the, Arapahoe Indians the night
before, and in less than an hour, Gray Eagle, the Arapahoe chief,
came along in pursuit, accompanied by fifty of his select
warriors. When Uncle Kit showed him the dead Utes, he walked up to
one of them, gave him a kick and said: "Lo-mis-mo-cay-o-te," which
means, "All the same as cayote."

Gray Eagle gave us each a horse, thanked us very kindly and
returned to his village with his animals.

We proceeded on our journey to Santa Fe, which took us twelve
days. Here we met our old friend, Joe Favor, who we had sold our
furs to the year before, and who bought them again this season.

Furs being still higher this year, notwithstanding our small
catch, Uncle Kit did fairly well out of his winter's trapping.

After settling up with Uncle Kit, Mr. Favor called me into the
store and presented me with a single-shot, silver-mounted pistol,
also a knife that weighed two and one-fourth pounds, that had been
manufactured in St. Louis. We stopped at Santa Fe and rested two
days, after which time Uncle Kit, Johnnie West, myself and my pet
panther returned home to Taos, which was a distance of ninety
miles from Santa Fe.




CHAPTER VI.

TWO BOYS RIDE TO THE CITY OF MEXICO. ELEVEN HUNDRED MILES OF
TRIAL, DANGER AND DUTY---A GIFT HORSE.--THE WIND RIVER MOUNTAINS.


It was now the spring of 1850. I was eighteen years old and
beginning to think myself a man. Uncle Kit asked me to go to the
City of Mexico, saying that he owed a man there two hundred and
fifty dollars, and wished to pay him. He also told me that he
would have Juan, the Mexican boy, accompany me on the journey, but
cautioned me not to let any one know that I had money. "For," said
he, "them Mexican guerrillas would kill you if they knew you had
money about you."

The reader can fancy two boys at the age of eighteen, starting out
on a trip of eleven hundred miles, over a wild country, with no
settlement except hostile Indians and Mexicans, who are worse than
Indians if they know a person has money about him. At that time
there were no roads across the country in that direction; nothing
but a trail--a part of the way not even that--and the whole
country full of Mexican guerrillas--or, as we would term them,
Mexican robbers--who made it a business to murder people whom they
suspected of having money, and who would even masacre whole trains
of emigrants, take what money they might have, their provisions
and clothing, burn their wagons and drive their stock away. The
fact is that many of the depredations committed in those days, for
which the Indians were blamed, were done by those fiendish
Mexicans.

When the time arrived for starting and we were mounted, Uncle Kit,
Johnnie West and Mr. Hughes came out to bid us good-bye.

Johnnie West said: "Well, I am afraid I shall never see you again,
for those Mexican guerrillas are worse than Indians, especially
when they think a traveler has money about him."

All this helped to put me on my guard, and I didn't even tell Juan
that I had money with me.

We started on our journey with two saddled horses and one pack-
horse each. We met numerous little bands of Navajoe Indians, but
they being on good terms with the whites, gave us no trouble,
whatever. We also met numerous little squads of Mexican
guerrillas, but they not suspecting two boys as young as we were
with having money, did not disturb us. Uncle Kit had sent the
shabbiest looking horses along that he had, in order to deceive
them. Every band of Mexicans that we met on our trip would ask us
where we were from, where we were going and our business. I always
told them that I was from Taos, and was going to the City of
Mexico to see a friend, and they would pass on.

The first river we came to, Juan asked me if I could swim. I told
him that I did not know, as I had never had a trial. We stripped
down, tied our clothing about our shoulders and mounted our horses
again.

I wanted Juan to take the lead and let me drive the horses after
him, but he thought we had best ride side by side and let the
pack-animals follow, so in case of accident we could help each
other. We made it across safe, and from this time on we never
hesitated at a stream.

We were thirty-one days making the trip to the City of Mexico.

I found Mr. Reed at his residence and paid the two hundred and
fifty dollars to him. He was much astonished at Uncle Kit sending
two boys eleven hundred miles to pay so small a debt, and said
that he had not expected to get the money until such time as
Carson might be coming that way on other business, for it was so
far that he would not have gone after it and taken the chances of
crossing the country between the City of Mexico and Taos, as we
had done, for the two hundred and fifty dollars.

But Uncle Kit owed this money and had agreed to pay it at a
certain time, and he, like many other frontiersman, valued his
word more than he did his gold.

We laid over two days at the City of Mexico in order to let our
horses rest. The day before we were to start, Mr. Reed, who had
invited us to his residence to board while in the City, went out
to where our horses were, and seeing that one of the horses had a
sore back, told me that he would make me a present of a horse
that, if I took good care of, would be able to carry me the entire
trip.

I named this horse Mexico, and as will be seen later, he proved to
be a noble saddle-horse, which I kept and rode for seven years.

We made the trip home somewhat quicker than we did on our way out,
being better acquainted with the country, and so could make better
time.

We were just two months making the round trip, arriving at Taos
two weeks sooner than Uncle Kit had expected us. Johnnie West and
Mr. Hughes were glad to see us return, for it was more than they
expected.

By the time my panther had grown to be quite large, and was glad
to see me.

On my return to Taos I learned that Uncle Kit and Jim Bridger had
formed a co-partnership, for the purpose of trapping the coming
winter in the Wind River mountains, which were about seven hundred
miles from Taos, and had employed Johnnie West, Charlie Jones and
Jake Harrington to trap for them, and in a few days after my
return from the City of Mexico we made the start with thirty-two
pack-animals, besides our saddle-horses.

Nothing happening worthy of note on our way out, we arrived at our
proposed trapping ground, and found plenty of beaver and plenty of
fresh Indian sign as well, but the Indians were not apt to give us
any trouble at this season of the year, more than to run our
horses off, as they would prefer to let trappers alone until
spring and then kill them and take their furs.

We established our two camps about four miles apart, and kept our
horses in the valley between the two camps; there was an abundance
of grass, plenty of game and no end to the beaver. In fact, to
take it on the whole, it seemed that this was going to be the
lovliest place to spend the winter that we had ever struck, and
the boys were all highly elated over their new winter quarters. We
had only been in our trapping field about two weeks when Uncle Kit
went out one morning to kill a deer and to look after the horses.
He had not gone far when he looked across the little valley and
saw an Indian driving off our horses. Being in gunshot of the
Indian, he fired at him and brought him to the ground. When

Uncle Kit returned to camp, he said:

"Boys, I am afraid we have made a mistake in coming here to trap
this winter; we must be near the Blackfoot Indians, for I just
killed one that was driving our horses off, and I just happened to
see him in time to catch him with old Blackleg." At that time the
Blackfoot Indians were considered worst tribe in the entire
Northwest.

I went at once to the other camp to notify Jim Bridger and his
crowd that they might be on their guard. Bridger said he had been
expecting it, as he had seen fresh Indian sign out on the ridges
some days before, but thought it was getting so late now that they
would not give us any more trouble this winter, but that we would
have to get out early the next spring.

We stayed here and trapped all winter, with splendid success. Jim
Bridger took twelve beaver from his string of traps every twenty-
four hours for seven successive days, being the greatest catch I
ever knew from one string of traps.

About the last of March we commenced making preparations to leave
the mountains, for fear the Indians might come and clean us out.

The day before we were to start there came a heavy fall of snow,
and we were not able to move until the first of April, when we
made another start for Santa Fe, going via Sweetwater, and we had
enough furs to load our entire train.

The second day after leaving camp we were attacked, about noon, by
twenty Indians of the Blackfoot tribe, who entertained us for
about an hour.

We huddled our horses and used them for breast-works, and killed
seven Indians without one of our men being wounded, but we lost
two horses.

It might be well to describe the manner in which trappers traveled
those days while passing through a country where there were
hostile Indians.

Each man would take the number of horses he was to lead and and
string them out and fasten them together by tying each horse to
the tail of the horse ahead of him and the head horse of the
string he would tie to the tail of his saddle-horse. This had to
be done to prevent a stampede when attacked, and the horses, too,
were a great protection to the men, for when they were attacked by
Indians the men would ride to the center and use the horses for
breastworks in time of battle.

After the fight was over the boys all felt jubilant over their
victory. We had no more trouble with Indians for four days, when
we reached Rock Creek, a beautiful little mountain stream that
pays tribute to the North Platte river. Here was a nice place to
camp; plenty of wood and an abundance of grass, and the finest
water in the land. Here was a lovely valley, and just off to the
northwest was a little hill or ridge, only a short distance from
which we made our camp. Some of the men went to getting wood and
building a fire, while others were unpacking, not thinking of
Indians, and just as the packs were off we were aroused by the
war-whoop of a little squad of Indians who were coming over the
ridge spoken of. We had a hot little fight, but it only lasted a
few minutes, when the Indians withdrew, and Uncle Kit gave orders
to follow them, which we did, and had a running fight for about
five miles. We captured five horses from the redskins, and in the
affair did not lose a man, nor even a horse.

This ended our trouble with the Indians for this trip.

On arriving at Santa Fe, Uncle Kit and Jim Bridger sold their furs
to Joe Favor and Mr. Roubidoux for a good price.

Here we met an Englishman, who lived in London, England, and had
come that spring from St. Louis, in company with Mr. Roubidoux and
Joe Favor.

I had my pet panther with me, and the Englishman took a fancy to
her and asked my price for her. I told him that she was not for
sale. He offered me a hundred dollars for her. I hated to part
with her, but a hundred dollars was more money than I had ever had
before at one time, and looked like a big lot to me, so I accepted
his offer, and in less than twenty-four hours I was very sorry,
for during the time I stayed in Santa Fe, every time that I would
pass in sight of her she would cry as pitifully as any child ever
heard. Five hundred dollars would not have bought her from Mr.
Mace, as he had purchased her with the intention of taking her to
England.

Mr. Roubidoux and Joe Favor employed Uncle Kit to go out and trade
for buffalo robes with the Comanche and Kiowa Indians. I
accompanied him on this trip, and we were out two months, during
which time we did not see a white man.

This was the first shipment of buffalo robes that had ever been
made from this region, consequently we were able to get them
almost at our own price.

As soon as Uncle Kit got out there with his little stock of goods
that had been furnished him to trade on, and which consisted of
beads and rings and a very few blankets, and the Indians had
learned that he would trade for robes, the squaws all fell to
dressing them. Among the Indians it was considered disgraceful for
men to do such work.

In a very short time there were plenty of dressed buffalo robes,
and some very nice ones, and I have seen Uncle Kit trade a string
of beads a foot and a half long for a first-class robe, and for a
red blanket he could get almost as many robes as he had a mind to
ask.

As fast as the robes were bought they were baled, and by the time
Uncle Kit pretty well bought up all that were for sale, the wagon-
train came and hauled them away.

There were twenty wagon loads of robes and the goods Uncle Kit
traded for them would not have cost to exceed seventy-five
dollars.

Our work being done, we started for Taos, for it was now almost
time to start out for the winter's trapping. On our arrival at
Taos we found Johnnie West, who had been loafing around for two
months, and who was anxious to get at work again. Uncle Kit hired
him to go with us to South Park to trap the coming winter, that
being the place he had decided upon for the season's work.




CHAPTER VII.

BATTLING THREE DAYS' BATTLE BETWEEN THE COMANCHES AND THE UTES FOR
THE POSSESSION OF A "HUNTER'S PARADISE."--AN UNSEASONABLE BATH.


All being ready, Uncle Kit, Johnnie West and myself pulled out for
South Park. We passed over a high range of mountains, struck the
Park on the east side, and a more beautiful sight I never saw than
the region was at that time. Coming in from the direction
mentioned, one could overlook the entire park, which was almost
surrounded by snow-capped mountains, and the valley, several miles
below, which was about eighty miles long and from ten to twenty
miles wide, was as green as a wheatfield in June. When we were
near the valley we could see elk in bands of a hundred or more,
with small herds of bison scattered here and there in the valley,
and antelope by the hundred.

I had often heard of a hunter's paradise, and when I got sight of
this lovely valley, with its thousands of wild animals of almost
every description known to the continent, I made up my mind that
if there ever was such a place as a hunter's paradise, I had
surely found it. The high mountains with scattering pine trees on
the sides; the snowy white peaks above the timber line, and the
many little mountain streams and rills that paid tribute to the
main stream that coursed this beautiful valley, all combined to
form a scene of magnificent grandeur. The quaking-asp, balm and
various other kinds of small timber that grew along the streams
all helped to add to the beauty of the scene.

We crossed over to the west side to a cove that ran back some
twelve miles from the main valley; here, we decided, was the best
place to establish our winter quarters. Every little mountain
stream in the valley was alive with beaver, and Uncle Kit thought
it so late that we would not be bothered by the Indians that fall,
but, that we would have to get out early the following spring.
Feeling perfectly safe, we built our cabin this winter entirely on
top of the ground, consequently we were not long in getting our
winter quarters completed and were soon ready to start in
trapping. We had excellent success this winter; very little snow
to contend with, making it much better getting around than usual
and an easier task to look after strings of traps.

In those cases each man had his string of traps, and it was his
business to go to each trap every day, take the beaver out, skin
them, set the traps, carry the skins home and stretch them.
Sometimes we would trap as far as seven miles from camp, that
being the outside limit. After we had trapped here about three
weeks there came a light fall of snow which drove most of the game
to the valley, and we experienced no trouble in getting all the
meat we wanted close to camp, in fact we could often kill deer and
antelope from our cabin door.

The second morning after the snowfall, Uncle Kit, Johnnie West and
myself all started down the valley to took after our traps. We
went about a mile together, I left the other two, my traps being
the farthest away, some three miles down the valley. After leaving
the other two I struck out down the valley on a turkey trot, that
being my usual gait when alone. I had not gone far when I heard
two gun shots. Thinking that Uncle Kit and Johnnie had been
attacked by the Indians, I turned in the direction that I heard
the shooting, and ran back much faster than I had come, but had
not gone far when I saw ahead of me, up the narrow valley, a band
of about twenty bison coming direct for me. I thought by shooting
the leader it might check their speed and perhaps cause them to
change their course. So I brought my gun to my face and dropped
the leader, but it neither caused the others to halt or change
their course, and they were making a bee line for me, and there
was not a tree in reach large enough for me to climb nor a place
of any kind that I could hide.

Now I was not long in making up my mind that I had a first-class
foot-race on my hands--as an Irishman might say--and after running
some distance I looked back and saw the bison were on me at every
jump. Had I only known the nature of bison, which I learned
afterward were not so vicious as buffalo, I could have turned to
the right or left and they would have passed on; but thinking that
they were after me, I got out like a quarter-horse, putting in my
best licks to try to reach a wash-out that I knew of ahead of me.
Thinking that if I only could reach that ditch I might have some
possible show for my life, I lost no time in getting there, but
got right down to business and did the prettiest running I have
ever done in my life. Every time I looked back I saw that the
rushing herd was closer upon me, until they were within a few
feet, and by the time I reached the ditch I fancied that I could
feel the bsreath from the nostrils of a half dozen bison on the
rear base of my buckskin trousers. Then into the ditch I went,
head-long and into about four feet of water. It seemed to me that
those buffalo were half an hour crossing that ditch, but I stood
perfectly quiet in the water up to my waist until they had all
passed over.

The ditch being deep and the banks perpendicular, I had to wade
the water for some distance up the ditch before I could find a
place where I could climb out. I had just scrambled up the bank
and shaken myself, when up came Uncle Kit and Johnnie, who had
heard the report of my gun and had come to see whether or not I
had killed anything.

"Rather cold to go bathing," said Uncle Kit. "When I go bathin' I
allus pull off my buckskin suit."

But I told them I considered myself lucky to be able to find a
suitable place to go swimming just at that time, and congratulated
myself on being all there.

Aside from my race with the bison, I put in a very pleasant
winter, and Uncle Kit said he had never spent as pleasant a time
in the mountains as he did that winter in South Park. "In fact,"
said he, "it was more like a pleasure trip than anything else."

Our camp at this time was near where the town of Tarryall has
since been built, and we ranged our horses in the extreme south
end of the park, where they had the best kind of grazing the
entire winter.

It was in the latter part of March--this now being the spring of
1852--when Uncle Kit made a trip to the south end of the park to
get our horses, thinking we had stayed there about as long as it
was safe.

During his absence Johnnie West and I were busily engaged in
making preparations to start for Bent's Fort, as soon as Carson
should get back with the horses. On his return he informed us that
he would not leave the park until about the first of May, which
was a surprise and disappointment to us both, as we had made all
calculations on getting started the following day. We asked what
was up that we were to be detained so long.

"On my trip for the horses," said Carson, "I saw some Injuns of
the Comaneche tribe, and they told me that them and the Utes war
goin' to have a battle as soon as the Utes can cross the
mountains, and the place for the battle decided on is in the south
end of the park." He also said that with all the Indian fighting
he had been mixed up in he had never be