ng
policy of Washington and filled with insinuations and exaggerated
complaints against the Commander-in-Chief. [1]

Washington was not unaware of what his enemies were attempting, but it
was not till after the victory of Saratoga that the matter assumed a
definite shape. The success of the northern army, which in fact was
chiefly due to Schuyler, so elated Gates that he seemed to adopt the
views of those other members of the cabal who were disposed to favor
his aspirations to the office of commander-in-chief. He even ventured
to do what few men ever dared, to treat Washington with disrespect.
After the victory of the 7th of October (1777) had opened to him the
prospect of subduing the army of Burgoyne, he not only omitted to
communicate his success to Washington, but carried on a correspondence
with Conway, in which that officer expressed great contempt for the
Commander-in-Chief. When the purport of this correspondence, which had
been divulged by Wilkinson to Lord Stirling, became known to
Washington, he exploded the whole affair by sending the offensive
expressions directly to Conway, who communicated the information to
Gates. [1] Gates demanded the name of the informer in a letter to
Washington, far from being conciliatory in its terms, which was
accompanied with the very extraordinary circumstance of being passed
through Congress. Washington's answer completely humbled him.

It pointed out the inconsistencies and contradictions of Gates' defense
and showed him that Washington had penetrated his whole scheme and
regarded it with lofty contempt. In a subsequent letter Gates besought
him to bury the subject in oblivion.

Meantime, Washington's enemies in Congress were bold and active. A new
Board of War was created, of which Gates was appointed the president,
and Mifflin, who was of the party unfriendly to Washington, was one of
its members. Conway, who was probably the only brigadier in the army
that had joined this faction, was appointed Inspector-general and was
promoted above senior brigadiers to the rank of major-general. These
were evidences that if the hold which the Commander-in-Chief had taken
of the affections and confidence of the army and nation could be
loosened, the party in Congress disposed to change their general was
far from being contemptible in point of numbers. But to loosen this
hold was impossible. The indignation with which the idea of such a
change was received, even by the victorious troops who had conquered
under Gates, forms the most conclusive proof of its strength. Even the
northern army clung to Washington as the savior of his country.

These machinations to diminish the well-earned reputation of Washington
made no undue impression on his steady mind, nor did they change one of
his measures. His sensibilities seem to have been those of patriotism,
of apprehension for his country, rather than of wounded pride. [2]

His desire to remain at the head of the army seemed to flow from the
conviction that his retaining that station would be useful to his
country, rather than from the gratification his high rank might furnish
to ambition.

When he unbosomed himself to his private friends, the feelings and
sentiments he expressed were worthy of Washington. To Mr. Laurens, [3]
the President of Congress, and his private friend, who, in an
unofficial letter, had communicated an anonymous accusation made to
him, as President, containing heavy charges against the Commander-in-Chief,
he said. "I cannot sufficiently express the Obligation I feel toward you
for your friendship and politeness upon an occasion in which I am deeply
interested. I was not unapprised that a malignant faction had been for
some time forming to my prejudice, which, conscious as I am of having
ever done all in my power to answer the important purposes of the trusts
reposed in me, could not but give me some pain on a personal account;
but my chief concern arises from an apprehension of the dangerous
consequences which intestine dissensions may produce to the common
cause.

"As I have no other view than to promote the public good, and am
unambitious of honors not founded in the approbation of my country, I
would not desire in the least degree to suppress a free spirit of
inquiry into any part of my conduct that even faction itself may deem
reprehensible. The anonymous paper handed you exhibits many serious
charges and it is my wish that it may be submitted to Congress. This I
am the more inclined to as the suppression or concealment may possibly
involve you in embarrassment hereafter since it is uncertain how many
or who may be privy to the contents.

"My enemies take an ungenerous advantage of me. They know the delicacy
of my situation and that motives of policy deprive me of the defense I
might otherwise make against their insidious attacks. They know I
cannot combat their insinuations, however injurious, without disclosing
secrets it is of the utmost moment to conceal. But why should I expect
to be free from censure, the unfailing lot of an elevated station?
Merit and talents which I cannot pretend to rival have ever been
subject to it. My heart tells me it has been my unremitted aim to do
the best which circumstances would permit. Yet I may have been very
often mistaken in my judgment of the means and may in many instances
deserve the imputation of error."

While Washington expressed himself in these modest terms to a personal
friend, he assumed a much bolder and higher tone to the dastardly
enemies who were continually thwarting his designs and injuring the
public service by their malignity and incapacity. These were public
enemies to be publicly arraigned. Seizing the occasion to which we have
already referred, when the army was unable to march against the enemy
for want of provisions, he sent to the President of Congress the
following letter which, of course, like the rest of his correspondence,
was to be read to the whole house. It is severer than any he had ever
written: "Full as I was in my representation of the matters in the
commissary's department yesterday, fresh and more powerful reasons
oblige me to add that I am now convinced beyond a doubt that unless
some great and capital change suddenly takes place in that line this
army must inevitably be reduced to one or other of these three
things--to starve, dissolve, or disperse in order to obtain
subsistence. Rest assured, sir, that this is not an exaggerated
picture, and that I have abundant reason to suppose what I say.

"Saturday afternoon receiving information that the enemy in force had
left the city and were advancing toward Darby with apparent design to
forage and draw subsistence from that part of the country, I ordered
the troops to be in readiness that I might give every opposition in my
power, when, to my great mortification, I was not only informed but
convinced that the men were unable to stir on account of a want of
provisions, and that a dangerous mutiny begun the night before, and
which with difficulty was suppressed by the spirited exertions of some
officers, was still much to be apprehended from the want this article.

"This brought forth the only commissary in the purchasing line in this
camp and with him this melancholy and alarming truth, that he had not a
single hoof of any kind to slaughter and not more than twenty-five
barrels of flour! From hence form an opinion of our situation when I
add that he could not tell when to expect any.

"All I could do under these circumstances was to send out a few light
parties to watch and harass the enemy, whilst other parties were
instantly detached different ways to collect, if possible, as much
provisions as would satisfy the pressing wants of the soldiers; but
will this answer? No, sir. Three or four days of bad weather would
prove our destruction. What then is to become of the army this winter?
And if we are now as often without provisions as with them what is to
become of us in the spring when our force will be collected, with the
aid perhaps of militia, to take advantage of an early campaign before
the enemy can be reinforced? These are considerations of great
magnitude, meriting the closest attention, and will, when my own
reputation is so intimately connected with and to be affected by the
event, justify my saying that the present commissaries are by no means
equal to the execution of the office, or that the disaffection of the
people surpasses all belief. The misfortune, however, does in my
opinion proceed from both causes, and though I have been tender
heretofore of giving my opinion or of lodging complaints, as the change
in that department took place contrary to my judgment and the
consequences thereof were predicted, yet finding that the inactivity of
the army, whether for want of provisions, clothes, or other essentials
is charged to my account, not only by the common vulgar but by those in
power, it is time to speak plain in exculpation of myself. With truth
then I can declare that no man, in my opinion, ever had his measures
more impeded than I have by every department of the army. Since the
month of July we have had no assistance from the Quartermaster-General,
and to want of assistance from this department the Commissary-General
charges great part of his deficiency. To this I am to add that
notwithstanding it is a standing order (often repeated) that the troops
shall always have two days' provision by them, that they may be ready
at any sudden call, yet scarcely any opportunity has ever offered of
taking advantage of the enemy that has not been either totally
obstructed or greatly impeded on this account, and this, the great and
crying evil, is not all. Soap, vinegar, and other articles allowed by
Congress we see none of, nor have we seen them, I believe, since the
battle of Brandywine. The first, indeed, we have little occasion
for--few men having more than one shirt, many only the moiety of one,
and some none at all. In addition to which, as a proof of the little
benefit from a clothier-general, and at the same time as a further
proof of the inability of an army under the circumstances of this to
perform the common duties of soldiers, we have, by a field return this
day made, besides a number of men confined to hospitals for want of
shoes and others in farmers' houses on the same account, no less than
2,898 men now in camp unfit for duty because they are barefoot and
otherwise naked. By the same return it appears that our whole strength
in Continental troops, including the eastern brigades, which have
joined us since the surrender of General Burgoyne, exclusive of the
Maryland troops sent to Wilmington, amounts to no more than 8,200 in
camp fit for duty; notwithstanding which, and that since the 4th inst.,
our number fit for duty, from the hardships and exposures they have
undergone, particularly from the want of blankets, have decreased near
2,000 men, we find, gentlemen, without knowing whether the army was
really going into winter quarters or not (for I am sure no resolution
of mine would warrant the remonstrance), reprobating the measure as
much as if they thought the soldiers were made of stocks or stones, and
equally insensible to frost and snow; and, moreover, as if they
conceived it easily practicable for an inferior army, under the
disadvantages I have described ours to be--which are by no means
exaggerated--to confine a superior one, in all respects well appointed
and provided for a winter's campaign, within the city of Philadelphia,
and to cover from depredation and waste the States of Pennsylvania,
Jersey, etc. But what makes this matter still more extraordinary in my
eye is that these very gentlemen, who were well apprised of the
nakedness of the troops from ocular demonstration, who thought their
own soldiers worse clad than others and advised me near a month ago to
postpone the execution of a plan I was about to adopt, in consequence
of a resolve of Congress for seizing clothes, under strong assurances
that an ample supply would be collected in ten days, agreeably to a
decree of the State (not one article of which, by the by, is yet come
to hand), should think a winter's campaign and the covering of their
States from the invasion of an enemy so easy and practicable a
business. I can assure those gentlemen that it is a much easier and
less distressing thing to draw remonstrances in a comfortable room, by
a good fireside, than to occupy a cold, bleak hill, and sleep under
frost and snow without clothes or blankets. However, although they seem
to have little feeling for the naked and distressed soldiers, I feel
superabundantly for them, and from my soul pity those miseries which it
is not in my power either to relieve or to prevent."

This letter must have convinced Washington's implacable enemies in
Congress that he had no thoughts of conciliating them. He despised and
defied them. Its effect on those who were friendly to him would
necessarily be inspiriting. His bold attitude justified their reliance
on his moral courage and enabled them to demand the enactment of those
measures which were necessary for the preservation of the army and the
successful assertion of the country's independence.

It is probable that this letter gave the finishing stroke to the Conway
Cabal. While Gates and Mifflin denied that they had ever desired or
aimed at Washington's removal from the office of Commander-in-Chief and
sought to recover his confidence, Conway himself, who was still
inspector-general, after denying any design to remove Washington, still
maintained an offensive attitude toward him, wrote impertinent letters
to him, and persisted in intriguing against him with Congress. But he
found himself foiled in all his ambitious and factious designs, and he
had become excessively unpopular in the army. He felt at last that he
was in a false position; we shall presently see how his career in this
country terminated.

Washington's conduct through the whole period of the Conway Cabal,
which lasted several months, is highly characteristic of the man. While
he regarded it with contempt, so far as he was personally concerned, he
felt annoyed and distressed at the injury which it was inflicting on
the public service. When the moment was come for unmasking the
conspirators, by informing Conway that he was aware of their designs,
he applied the match which was to explode the whole plot and cover its
originators with shame and confusion. This he did in a quiet,
business-like way because the public service required it. Congress,
having committed itself by promoting his enemies, could not at once
retract, but the officers themselves made haste to escape from public
indignation by denials and apologies, and the final effect of the
Conway Cabal was to establish Washington more firmly than ever in the
confidence and affection of the whole country. [4]

His situation, however, was by no means enviable. His army was much
attached to him, but weakened by disease, and irritated by nakedness
and hunger, it was almost on the point of dissolution. In the midst of
the difficulties and dangers with which he was surrounded Washington
displayed a singular degree of steady perseverance, unshaken fortitude,
and unwearied activity. Instead of manifesting irritable impatience
under the malignant attacks made on his character he behaved with
magnanimity, and earnestly applied to Congress and to the legislative
bodies of the several States for reinforcements to his army in order
that he might be prepared to act with vigor in the ensuing campaign.

But to recruit and equip the army was no easy task. The great
depreciation of paper money rendered the pay of the soldiers inadequate
to their support, and consequently it was not likely that voluntary
enlistment would be successful, especially since the patriotic ardor of
many had begun to cool by the continuance of the war, and all knew that
great hardships and dangers were to be encountered by joining the army.
The pay even of the officers, in the depreciated paper currency, was
wholly unequal to the maintenance of their rank. Some of them who had
small patrimonial estates found them melting away, while their lives
were unprofitably devoted to the service of their country, and they who
had no private fortune could not appear in a manner becoming their
station. A commission was a burden, and many considered the acceptance
of one as conferring rather than receiving a favor--a state of things
highly disadvantageous to the service, for the duties of an office
scarcely reckoned worth holding will seldom be zealously and actively
discharged. There was reason to apprehend that many of the most
meritorious officers would resign their commissions, and that they only
who were less qualified for service would remain with the army.

Congress, moved by the remonstrances of Washington, and by the
complaints with which they were assailed from every quarter, deputed a
committee of their body to reside in camp during the winter, and in
concert with the general to examine the state of the army and report on
the measures necessary to be taken for placing it in a more respectable
condition. The members of this committee were Francis Dana, General
Reed, Nathaniel Folsom, Charles Carroll, and Governeur Morris. On their
arrival at Valley Forge Washington submitted to them a memoir, filling
fifty folio pages, exhibiting the existing state of the army, the
deficiencies and disorders, and their causes, and suggesting such
reforms as he deemed necessary. Upon this document the plan for
improving the efficiency of the army was formed and communicated to
Congress by the committee, who remained in camp nearly three months.
Congress approved of their proceedings and adopted their plan, but they
legislated so slowly that the effect of their proceedings was hardly
felt before the month of April (1778).

Among the reforms recommended by the committee, called the "Committee
of Arrangement," who were sent to the camp, none met with so much
opposition in Congress as that which provided for increasing the pay of
the officers and soldiers of the army. Hitherto there had been no
provision made for officers after the war should end, and the pay which
they were actually receiving being in depreciated Continental bills was
merely nominal. To the effect of this state of things in the army we
have already adverted. It was most disastrous. Washington was desirous
that Congress should make provision for giving officers half pay for
life, or some other permanent provision, and increasing the inducements
for soldiers to enlist. A party in Congress opposed this as having the
appearance of a standing army, a pension list, and a privileged order
in society.

In a letter to Congress Washington said: "If my opinion is asked with
respect to the necessity of making this provision for the officers I am
ready to declare that I do most religiously believe the salvation of
the cause depends upon it, and without it your officers will moulder to
nothing, or be composed of low and illiterate men, void of capacity for
this or any other business.

"Personally, as an officer, I have no interest in their decision,
because I have declared, and I now repeat it, that I never will receive
the smallest benefit from the half-pay establishment, but as a man who
fights under the weight of a proscription, and as a citizen, who wishes
to see the liberty of his country established upon a permanent
foundation, and whose property depends upon the success of our arms, I
am deeply interested. But all this apart and justice out of the
question, upon the single ground of economy and public saving, I will
maintain the utility of it, for I have not the least doubt that until
officers consider their commissions in an honorable and interested
point of view, and are afraid to endanger them by negligence and
inattention, no order, regularity, or care either of the men or public
property, will prevail."

The following passages, from a letter addressed to a delegate in
Congress from Virginia, exhibit the view Washington took at the time of
public affairs and the spirit and eloquence with which he pleaded the
cause of the country and the army.

"Before I conclude there are one or two points more upon which I will
add an observation or two. The first is the indecision of Congress and
the delay used in coming to determinations on matters referred to them.
This is productive of a variety of inconveniences, and an early
decision, in many cases, though it should be against the measure
submitted, would be attended with less pernicious effects. Some new
plan might then be tried, but while the matter is held in suspense
nothing can be attempted. The other point is the jealousy which
Congress unhappily entertain of the army, and which, if reports are
right, some members labor to establish. You may be assured there is
nothing more injurious or more unfounded. This jealousy stands upon the
commonly received opinion, which under proper limitations is certainly
true, that standing armies are dangerous to a State. The prejudices in
other countries have only gone to them in time of peace, and these from
their not having in general cases any of the ties, the concerns, or
interests of citizens, or any other dependence than what flowed from
their military employ; in short, from their being mercenaries,
hirelings. It is our policy to be prejudiced against them in time of
war, though they are citizens, having all the ties and interests of
citizens, and in most cases property totally unconnected with the
military line.

"If we would pursue a right system of policy, in my opinion, there
should be none of these distinctions. We should all, Congress and army,
be considered as one people, embarked in one cause, in one interest,
acting on the same principle and to the same end. The distinction, the
jealousies set up, or perhaps only incautiously let out, can answer not
a single good purpose. They are impolitic in the extreme. Among
individuals the most certain way to make a man your enemy is to tell
him you esteem him such. So with public bodies, and the very jealousy
which the narrow politics of some may affect to entertain of the army,
in order to a due subordination to the supreme civil authority, is a
likely means to produce a contrary effect--to incline it to the pursuit
of those measures which they may wish it to avoid. It is unjust because
no order of men in the thirteen States has paid a more sacred regard to
the proceedings of Congress than the army, for without arrogance or the
smallest deviation from truth it may be said that no history now extant
can furnish an instance of an army's suffering such uncommon hardships
as ours has done, and bearing them with the same patience and
fortitude. To see men without clothes to cover their nakedness, without
blankets to lie on, without shoes (for the want of which their marches
might be traced by the blood from their feet), and almost as often
without provisions as with them, marching through the frost and snow,
and at Christmas taking up their winter quarters within a day's march
of the enemy, without a house or hut to cover them till they could be
built, and submitting without a murmur, is a proof of patience and
obedience which in my opinion can scarcely be paralleled."

Such representations as these could not fail to produce some effect
even on the minds of those who were opposed to the measures which
Washington proposed. Still the action of Congress was, as usual,
dilatory. After a great deal of discussion a vote was passed by a small
majority to give the officers half pay for life. This vote was
reconsidered, and it was finally agreed that the officers should
receive half pay for seven years after the close of the war, or that
each noncommissioned officer and soldier, who should continue in the
army till the close of the war, should receive a bounty of $80.

We have anticipated the order of time in order to dispose finally of
this matter which was not terminated till the spring of 1778.

During the winter Howe confined his operations to those small
excursions that were calculated to enlarge the comforts of his own
soldiers, who, notwithstanding the favorable dispositions of the
neighboring country, were much distressed for fuel and often in great
want of forage and fresh provisions. The vigilance of the parties on
the lines, especially on the south side of the Schuylkill, intercepted
a large portion of the supplies intended for the Philadelphia market,
and corporal punishment was frequently inflicted on those who were
detected in attempting this infraction of the laws. As Capt. Henry Lee,
called in the army "Light Horse Harry," was particularly active, a plan
was formed late in January to surprise and capture him in his quarters.
An extensive circuit was made by a large body of cavalry who seized
four of his patrols without communicating an alarm. About break of day
the British horse appeared, upon which Captain Lee placed his troopers
that were in the house at the doors and windows, who behaved so
gallantly as to repulse the assailants without losing a horse or man.
Only Lieutenant Lindsay and one private were wounded. The whole number
in the house did not exceed ten. That of the assailants was said to
amount to 200. They lost a sergeant and three men, with several horses
killed, and an officer and three men wounded. The result of this
skirmish gave great pleasure to Washington who had formed a high
opinion of Lee's talents as a partisan. He mentioned the affair in his
orders with strong marks of approbation, and in a private letter to the
captain testified the satisfaction he felt. For his merit through the
preceding campaign Congress promoted him to the rank of major and gave
him an independent partisan corps, to consist of three troops of horse.

While the deficiency of the public resources, arising from the alarming
depreciation of the bills of credit, manifested itself in all the
military departments, a plan was matured in Congress and in the Board
of War, without consulting the Commander-in-Chief, for a second
irruption into Canada. It was proposed to place the Marquis de
Lafayette at the head of this expedition and to employ Generals Conway
and Stark as the second and third in command.

This was a measure planned by those who were not friendly to
Washington; and one of its objects was to detach Lafayette from his
best and dearest friend and bring him over to the Conway party.
Lafayette would have declined the appointment, but Washington advised
him to accept it, probably foreseeing how the affair would terminate.

The first intimation to Washington that the expedition was contemplated
was given in a letter from the President of the Board of War of the
24th of January (1778), enclosing one of the same date to the Marquis,
requiring his attendance on Congress to receive his instructions.
Washington was requested to furnish Colonel Hazen's regiment, chiefly
composed of Canadians, for the expedition, and in the same letter his
advice and opinion were asked respecting it. The northern States were
to furnish the necessary troops.

Without noticing the manner in which this business had been conducted
and the marked want of confidence it betrayed, Washington ordered
Hazen's regiment to march toward Albany, and Lafayette proceeded
immediately to the seat of Congress at Yorktown. At his request he was
to be considered as an officer detached from the army of Washington, to
remain under his orders, and Major-General the Baron de Kalb was added
to the expedition; after which Lafayette repaired in person to Albany
to take charge of the troops who were to assemble at that place in
order to cross the lakes on the ice and attack Montreal.

On arriving at Albany he found no preparations made for the expedition.
Nothing which had been promised being in readiness, he abandoned the
enterprise as impracticable. Some time afterward Congress also
determined to relinquish it, and Washington was authorized to recall
both Lafayette and De Kalb.

While the army lay at Valley Forge the Baron Steuben arrived in camp.
This gentleman was a Prussian officer who came to the United States
with ample recommendations. He had served many years in the armies of
the great Frederick, had been one his aides-de-camp, and had held the
rank of lieutenant-general. He was well versed in the system of field
exercise which the King of Prussia had introduced, and was qualified to
each it to raw troops. He claimed no rank and offered his services as a
volunteer. After holding a conference with Congress he proceeded to
Valley Forge.

Although the office of inspector-general had been bestowed on Conway,
he had never entered on its duties, and his promotion to the rank of
major-general had given much umbrage to the brigadiers who had been his
seniors. That circumstance, in addition to the knowledge of his being
in a faction hostile to the Commander-in-Chief, rendered his situation
in the army so uncomfortable that he withdrew to Yorktown, in
Pennsylvania, which was then the seat of Congress. When the expedition
to Canada was abandoned he was not directed, with Lafayette and De
Kalb, to rejoin the army. Entertaining no hope of being permitted to
exercise the functions of his new office, he resigned his commission
about the last of April and, some time afterward, returned to France.
[6]

On his resignation the Baron Steuben, who had, as a volunteer,
performed the duties of inspector-general much to the satisfaction of
the Commander-in-Chief and of the army, was, on the recommendation of
Washington, appointed to that office, with the rank of major-general,
without exciting the slightest murmur.

This gentleman was of immense service to the American troops. He
established one uniform system of field exercise, and, by his skill and
persevering industry, effected important improvements through all ranks
of the army during its continuance at Valley Forge.

While it was encamped at that place several matters of great interest
engaged the attention of Congress. Among them was the stipulation in
the convention of Saratoga for the return of the British army to
England. Boston was named as the place of embarkation. At the time of
the capitulation the difficulty of making that port early in the winter
was unknown to General Burgoyne. Consequently, as some time must elapse
before a sufficient number of vessels for the transportation of his
army could be collected, its embarkation might be delayed until the
ensuing spring.

On being apprised of this circumstance, Burgoyne applied to Washington,
desiring him to change the port of embarkation and to appoint Newport,
in Rhode Island, or some other place on the Sound instead of Boston,
and, in case this request should not be complied with, soliciting, on
account of his health and private business, that the indulgence might
be granted to himself and suite. Washington, not thinking himself
authorized to decide on such an application, transmitted it to
Congress, which took no notice of the matter further than to pass a
resolution "That General Washington be directed to inform General
Burgoyne that Congress will not receive or consider any proposition for
indulgence or altering the terms of the convention of Saratoga, unless
immediately addressed to their own body." The application was
accordingly made to Congress, who readily complied with the request in
so far as it respected himself personally, but refused the indulgence
to his troops, and ultimately forbade their embarkation.

Congress watched with a jealous eye every movement of the convention
army and soon gave public indications of that jealousy. Early in
November they ordered General Heath, who commanded in Boston, "to take
the name, rank, former place of abode, and description of every person
comprehended in the convention of Saratoga, in order that, if afterward
found in arms against the United States, they might be punished
according to the law of nations." Burgoyne showed some reluctance to
the execution of this order, and his reluctance was imputed to no
honorable motives.

If the troops had been embarked in the Sound they might have reached
Britain early in the winter, where, without any breach of faith,
government might have employed them in garrison duty and been enabled
to send out a corresponding number of troops in time to take an active
part in the next campaign. But if the port of Boston were adhered to as
the place of embarkation, the convention troops could not, it was
thought, sail before the spring, and, consequently, could not be
replaced by the troops whose duties they might perform at home till
late in the year 1778. This circumstance, perhaps, determined Congress
to abide by Boston as the port of embarkation, and in this their
conduct was free from blame. But, by the injuries mutually inflicted
and suffered in the course of the war, the minds of the contending
parties were exasperated and filled with suspicion and distrust of each
other. Congress placed no reliance on British faith and honor, and, on
the subject under consideration, gave clear evidence that on those
points they were not over-scrupulous themselves.

On arriving in Boston the British officers found their quarters
uncomfortable. This probably arose from the large number of persons to
be provided for and the scarcity of rooms, fuel, and provisions,
arising from the presence of the whole captured army. But the officers
were much dissatisfied, and, after a fruitless correspondence with
Heath, Burgoyne addressed himself to Gates and complained of the
inconvenient quarters assigned his officers as a breach of the articles
of capitulation. Congress was highly offended at the imputation and
considered or affected to consider the charge as made with a view to
justify a violation of the convention by his army as soon as they
escaped from captivity. A number of transports for carrying off the
convention troops was collected in the Sound sooner than was expected,
but that number, amounting only to twenty-six, the Americans thought
insufficient for transporting such a number of men to Britain in the
winter season, and inferred that the intention could only be to carry
them to the Delaware and incorporate them with Howe's army. They also
alleged that a number of cartouche-boxes and other accoutrements of war
belonging to the British army had not been delivered up, agreeably to
the convention, and argued that this violation on the part of the
British released Congress from its obligations to fulfill the terms of
that compact.

On the 8th of January (1778), Congress resolved "to suspend the
embarkation of the army till a distinct and explicit ratification of
the convention of Saratoga shall be properly notified by the court of
Great Britain to Congress." Afterward the embarkation of the troops was
delayed or refused for various reasons, and that part of the convention
remained unfulfilled. The troops were long detained in Massachusetts;
they were afterward sent to the back parts of Virginia and none of them
were released but by exchange.

Mrs. Washington, as usual, visited her illustrious consort in his
quarters at Valley Forge during the winter. Writing from thence to a
friend in Boston, she says: "I came to this place some time about the
1st of February (1778), where I found the General very well. The
General's apartment is very small; he has had a log cabin built to dine
in, which has made our quarters much more tolerable than they were at
first." To those American citizens who are now reaping the rich fruits
of Washington's toils and sufferings in his country's cause, these few
lines are very suggestive. One cannot help contrasting the luxurious
habitations of the present generation with that log hut of the Father
of his Country at Valley Forge, to which the addition of another log
hut to dine in was considered by his consort a very comfortable
appendage. We should remember these things.

The effect of the news of Burgoyne's surrender, which reached Europe in
the autumn of 1777, could not be otherwise than highly favorable to the
cause of American independence. Our envoys in France, Dr. Franklin,
Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee had long been soliciting an alliance with
France. But the cautious ministers of Louis XVI, although secretly
favoring our cause and permitting supplies to be forwarded by
Beaumarchais, and the prizes of our ships to be brought into their
ports and sold, had hitherto abstained from openly supporting us, lest
our arms should finally prove unsuccessful. But the surrender of a
large army to Gates and the firm attitude of Washington's army,
besieging Howe in Philadelphia, as they had previously besieged him in
Boston, gave a new turn to French policy and disposed the ministry of
Louis to treat for an alliance with the new republic.

On the other hand, the British court was in a state of utter
consternation. The war began to assume a more portentous aspect, and
the British ministry, unable to execute their original purpose, lowered
their tone and showed an inclination to treat with the Colonies on any
terms which did not imply their entire independence and complete
separation from the British empire. In order to terminate the quarrel
with America before the actual commencement of hostilities with France,
Lord North introduced two bills into the House of Commons. The first
declared that Parliament would impose no tax or duty whatever, payable
within any of the Colonies of North America, except only such duties as
it might be expedient to impose for the purposes of commerce, the net
produce of which should always be paid and applied to and for the use
of the Colonies in which the same shall be respectively levied, in like
manner as other duties collected under the authority of their
respective Legislatures are ordinarily paid and applied; the second
authorized the appointment of commissioners by the Crown, with power to
treat with either the constituted authorities or with individuals in
America, but that no stipulation entered into should have any effect
till approved in Parliament. It empowered the commissioners, however,
to proclaim a cessation of hostilities in any of the Colonies; to
suspend the operation of the Non-intercourse Act; also to suspend,
during the continuance of the act, so much of all or any of the acts of
Parliament which have passed since the 10th day of February, 1763, as
relates to the Colonies; to grant pardons to any number or description
of persons, and to appoint a governor in any Colony in which his
Majesty had heretofore exercised the power of making such appointment.
The duration of the act was limited to the 1st day of June, 1779.

These bills passed both Houses of Parliament, and as about the time of
their introduction ministry received information of the conclusion of
the treaty between France and the Colonies, they sent off copies of
them to America, even before they had gone through the usual
formalities, in order to counteract the effects which the news of the
French alliance might produce. Early in March, the Earl of Carlisle,
George Johnstone, and William Eden, Esqs., were appointed commissioners
for carrying the acts into execution, and the celebrated Dr. Adam
Ferguson, then professor of moral philosophy in the University of
Edinburgh, was nominated their secretary. The commissioners sailed
without delay for America. But the present measure, like every other
concession in the course of this protracted contest, came too late.
What was now offered would at one time have been hailed in America with
acclamations of joy and secured the grateful affection of the
Colonists. But circumstances were now changed. The minds of the people
were completely alienated from the parent state and their spirits
exasperated by the events of the war. Independence had been declared,
victory had emblazoned the standards of Congress, and a treaty of
alliance with France had been concluded.

On the 16th of December (1777) the preliminaries of a treaty between
France and America were agreed on, and the treaty itself was signed at
Paris on the 6th of February, 1778--an event of which the British
ministry got information in little more than forty-eight hours after
the signatures were affixed. The principal articles of the treaty were:
That if Britain, in consequence of the alliance, should commence
hostilities against France, the two countries should mutually assist
each other; that the independence of America should be effectually
maintained; that if any part of North America still professing
allegiance to the Crown of Britain should be reduced by the Colonies it
should belong to the United States; that if France should conquer any
of the British West India Islands they should be deemed its property;
that the contracting parties should not lay down their arms till the
independence of America was formally acknowledged, and that neither of
them should conclude a peace without the consent of the other.

Lord North's conciliatory bills reached America before the news of the
French treaty and excited in Congress considerable alarm. There were a
number of Loyalists in each of the Colonies; many, though not
unfriendly to the American cause, had never entered cordially into the
quarrel, and the heavy pressure of the war had begun to cool the zeal
and exhaust the patience of some who had once been forward in their
opposition to Britain. Congress became apprehensive lest a disposition
should prevail to accept of the terms proposed by the British
government, and the great body of the people be willing to resign the
advantages of independence, in order to escape from present calamity.

The bills were referred to a committee, which, after an acute and
severe examination, gave in a report well calculated to counteract the
effects which it was apprehended the terms offered would produce on the
minds of the timid and wavering. They reported as their opinion that it
was the aim of those bills to create divisions in the States; and "that
they were the sequel of that insidious plan, which, from the days of
the Stamp Act down to the present time, hath involved this country in
contention and bloodshed; and that, as in other cases, so in this,
although circumstances may at times force them to recede from their
un-

[missing text]

of the British fleets and armies and the acknowledgment of American
independence. At the same time the bills were published, together with
the action of Congress on the subject, and dispersed throughout the
country. This decisive stand was taken before it was known that a
treaty had been concluded with France.

The British commissioners, Carlisle, Johnstone, and Eden, charged with
negotiating and reconciliation on the basis of Lord North's bills, did
not arrive until (June, 1778) six weeks after drafts of the bills had
been published by Governor Tryon and rejected by Congress. On their
arrival at New York, Sir Henry Clinton, who had succeeded Howe as
Commander-in-Chief, requested a passport for Dr. Ferguson, the
secretary of the commissioners, to proceed to Yorktown and lay certain
papers before Congress.

Washington, not deeming the matter within his province, declined until
he could have the instruction of Congress, who sustained him in
refusing the passport. The commissioners, impatient of delay, sent on
the papers through the ordinary medium of a flag, addressed to the
President of Congress.

The commissioners offered in their letter to consent to an immediate
cessation of hostilities by sea and land; to agree that no military
force should be kept up in the Colonies without the consent of
Congress, and also both to give up the right of taxation and to provide
for a representation in Parliament. They promised to sustain and
finally pay off the paper money then in circulation. Every inducement
short of the recognition of independence was held out to lead the
Colonists to return to their allegiance. But if, when relying upon
their own strength alone, they had refused to listen to such overtures,
they were not likely to do so now that they were assured of the support
of France. By order of Congress the President of that body wrote as
follows to the commissioners: "I have received the letter from your
Excellencies, dated the 9th instant, with the enclosures, and laid them
before Congress. Nothing but an earnest desire to spare the further
effusion of human blood could have induced them to read a paper
containing expressions so disrespectful to his Most Christian Majesty,
the good and great ally of these States, or to consider propositions so
derogatory to the honor of an independent nation. The acts of the
British Parliament, the commission from your sovereign, and your letter
suppose the people of these States to be subjects of the Crown of Great
Britain and are founded on the idea of dependence, which is utterly
inadmissible. I am further directed to inform your Excellencies that
Congress are inclined to peace, notwithstanding the unjust claims from
which this war originated, and the savage manner in which it hath been
conducted. They will, therefore, be ready to enter upon the
consideration of a treaty of peace and commerce not inconsistent with
treaties already subsisting, when the King of Great Britain shall
demonstrate a sincere disposition for that purpose. The only solid
proof of this disposition will be an explicit acknowledgment of these
States or the withdrawing his fleets and armies."

The British commissioners remained several months in the country and
made many and various attempts to accomplish the objects of their
mission, but without success.

They were compelled to return to England baffled and disappointed. Thus
the Americans, as an eloquent historian suggests, steady in their
resolutions, chose rather to trust to their own fortune, which they had
already proved, and to the hope they placed in that of France, than to
link themselves anew to the tottering destiny of England; abandoning
all idea of peace, war became the sole object of their solicitude. Such
was the issue of the attempts to effect an accommodation and thus were
extinguished the hopes which the negotiation had given birth to in
England. It was the misfortune of England to be governed by ministers
who were never willing to do justice until they were compelled by main
force. Their present concessions, as on all previous occasions, came
too late.

We have had frequent occasion to notice the embarrassments and
mortifications to which Washington was subjected by the interference of
Congress in those executive matters which should have been left
entirely under his own control. This was particularly injurious to the
public service in their conduct with respect to the treatment and
exchange of prisoners. Much correspondence on this subject took place
between Washington and Howe during the winter when the army was at
Valley Forge, and whenever the generals were on the eve of arranging an
exchange Congress would interfere and prevent it. Washington had been
compelled, by his sense of justice and humanity, to censure Howe for
his treatment of American prisoners. An order hastily given out by the
Board of War exposed Washington himself, without any fault of his own,
to a similar censure from Howe. The circumstances, as related by
Marshall, were these:

"General Washington had consented that a quartermaster, with a small
escort, should come out of Philadelphia, with clothes and other
comforts for the prisoners who were in possession of the United States.
He had expressly stipulated for their security, and had given them a
passport. While they were traveling through the country, information
was given to the Board of War that General Howe had refused to permit
provisions to be sent in to the American prisoners in Philadelphia by
water. This information was not correct. General Howe had only
requested that flags should not be sent up or down the river without
previous permission obtained from himself. On this information,
however, the board ordered Lieutenant-Colonel Smith immediately to
seize the officers, though protected by the passport of Washington,
their horses, carriages, and the provisions destined for the relief to
the British prisoners, and to secure them until further orders, either
from the Board or from the Commander-in-Chief.

"Washington, on hearing this circumstance, dispatched one of his aids
with orders for the immediate release of the persons and property which
had been confined; but the officers refused to proceed on their
journey, and returned to Philadelphia. [10]

"This untoward event was much regretted by Washington. In a letter
received some time afterwards, Howe, after expressing his willingness
that the American prisoners should be visited by deputy commissaries,
who should inspect their situation and supply their wants, required, as
the condition on which this indulgence should be granted, 'that a
similar permit should be allowed to persons appointed by him, which
should be accompanied with the assurance of General Washington, that
his authority will have sufficient weight to prevent any interruption
to their progress, and any insult to their persons.' This demand was
ascribed to the treatment to which officers under the protection of his
passport had already been exposed.

"Washington lamented the impediment to the exchange of prisoners, which
had hitherto appeared to be insuperable, and made repeated but
ineffectual efforts to remove it. Howe had uniformly refused to proceed
with any cartel unless his right to claim for all the diseased and
infirm, whom he had liberated, should be previously admitted.

"At length, after all hope of inducing him to recede from that high
ground had been abandoned, he suddenly relinquished it of his own
accord, and acceded completely to the proposition of Washington for the
meeting of commissioners, in order to settle equitably the number to
which he should be entitled for those he had discharged in the
preceding winter. This point being adjusted, commissioners were
mutually appointed, who were to meet on the 10th of March (1778), at
Germantown, to arrange the details of a general cartel.

"Washington had entertained no doubt of his authority to enter into
this agreement. On the 4th of March, however, he had the mortification
to perceive in a newspaper a resolution of Congress, calling on the
several States for the amounts of supplies furnished the prisoners,
that they might be adjusted according to the rule of the 10th of
December, before the exchange should take place.

"On seeing this embarrassing resolution, Washington addressed a letter
to Howe, informing him that particular circumstances had rendered it
inconvenient for the American commissioners to attend at the time
appointed, and requesting that their meeting should be deferred from
the 10th to the 21st of March. The interval was employed in obtaining a
repeal of the resolution.

"It would seem probable that the dispositions of Congress, on the
subject of an exchange, did not correspond with those of Washington.
From the fundamental principle of the military establishment of the
United States at its commencement, an exchange of prisoners would
necessarily strengthen the British much more than the American army.
The war having been carried on by troops raised for short times, aided
by militia, the American prisoners, when exchanged, returned to their
homes as citizens, while those of the enemy again took the field.

"Washington, who was governed by a policy more just, and more
permanently beneficial, addressed himself seriously to Congress, urging
as well the injury done the public faith and his own personal honor, by
this infraction of a solemn engagement, as the cruelty and impolicy of
a system which must cut off forever all hopes of an exchange, and
render imprisonment as lasting as the war. He represented in strong
terms the effect such a measure must have on the troops on whom they
should thereafter be compelled chiefly to rely, and its impression on
the friends of those already in captivity. These remonstrances produced
the desired effect, and the resolutions were repealed. The
commissioners met according to the second appointment; but, on
examining their powers, it appeared that those given by Washington were
expressed to be in virtue of the authority vested in him, while those
given by Howe contained no such declaration. This omission produced an
objection on the part of Congress; but Howe refused to change the
language, alleging that he designed the treaty to be of a personal
nature, founded on the mutual confidence and honor of the contracting
generals, and had no intention either to bind his government or to
extend the cartel beyond the limits and duration of his own command.

"This explanation being unsatisfactory to the American commissioners,
and Howe persisting in his refusal to make the required alteration in
his powers, the negotiation was broken off, and this fair prospect of
terminating the distresses of the prisoners on both sides passed away
without effecting the good it had promised.

"Some time after the failure of this negotiation for a general cartel,
Howe proposed that all prisoners actually exchangeable should be sent
into the nearest posts, and returns made of officer for officer of
equal rank, and soldier for soldier, as far as numbers would admit; and
that if a surplus of officers should remain, they should be exchanged
for an equivalent in privates.

"On the representations of Washington, Congress acceded to this
proposition so far as related to the exchange of officer for officer
and soldier for soldier, but rejected the part which admitted an
equivalent in privates for a surplus of officers, because the officers
captured with Burgoyne were exchangeable within the powers of Howe.
Under this agreement an exchange took place to a considerable extent;
but as the Americans had lost more prisoners than they had taken,
unless the army of Burgoyne should be brought into computation, many of
their troops were still detained in captivity."

The British army held possession of Philadelphia during the winter and
the following spring; but they were watched and checked during the
whole time by the Americans. They were not quite so closely besieged as
in Boston, but they were quite as effectually prevented from
accomplishing any military purpose. They sent out occasional foraging
parties, who were fiercely attacked by Washington's detachments, and
almost always purchased their supplies with blood. But Howe never made
an attack on Washington's camp. Doctor Franklin, when he heard in Paris
that General Howe had taken Philadelphia, corrected his informant very
justly. "Say, rather," said the acute philosopher, "that Philadelphia
has taken General Howe." The capture of Philadelphia, as we have
already taken occasion to remark, was perfectly useless--in fact, worse
than useless--to the British arms. It only provided winter quarters to
an army which would have been more comfortable and secure in New York;
and it held them beleaguered at a remote point when their services were
greatly needed to aid Burgoyne and save his army from capture. In point
of fact, Philadelphia did take Howe; and Washington kept him out of the
way and fully employed until Burgoyne had fallen, and by his fall had
paved the way to the French alliance and to the ruin of the British
cause in America.

1. Footnote: The cool contempt expressed in Washington's letter to
Conway is one of the most curious features of this affair. It reads as
follows: "To Brigadier-General Conway: Sir--A letter which I received
last night contained the following paragraph: 'In a letter from General
Conway to General Gates, he says, "Heaven has determined to save your
country, or a weak general and bad counsellors would have ruined it."'
I am, sir, your humble servant."

2. Footnote: Marshall

3. Footnote: John Hancock, who succeeded Peyton Randolph as president
of Congress, retired on the 29th of October, 1777. His successor was
Henry Laurens, of South Carolina.

4. Footnote: The correspondence relating to the Conway Cabal is given
entire in the Appendix to the fifth volume of Sparks' "Writings of
Washington." It is very curious and interesting. Among other letters
are anonymous ones addressed to Patrick Henry, Governor of Virginia,
and to Mr. Laurens, President of Congress, full of slanders against
Washington.

5. Footnote: Previous to this affair, Captain Lee, in his frequent
skirmishes with the enemy, had already captured at least a hundred of
their men.

6. Footnote: General Conway, after his resignation, frequently indulged
in expressions of extreme hostility to the Commander-in-Chief. These
indiscretions were offensive to the gentlemen of the army. In
consequence of them, he was engaged in an altercation with General
Caldwalader, which produced a duel, in which Conway received a wound
supposed for some time to be mortal. While his recovery was despaired
of, he addressed the following letter to General Washington:

PHILADELPHIA, July 23d, 1778.

SIR--I find myself just able to hold the pen during a few minutes, and
take this opportunity of expressing my sincere grief for having done,
written, or said, any thing disagreeable to your excellency. My career
will soon be over; therefore, justice and truth prompt me to declare my
last sentiments. You are, in my eyes, the great and good man. May you
long enjoy the love, veneration, and esteem of these States, whose
liberties you have asserted by your virtues. I am, with the greatest
respect, sir,

Your excellency's most obedient humble servant, THS. CONWAY.

7. Footnote: Gordon says: "May 13, 1778. General Burgoyne landed at
Portsmouth. On his arrival at London, he soon discovered that he was no
longer an object of court favor. He was refused admission to the royal
presence; and from thence experienced all those marks of being in
disgrace, which are so well understood, and so quickly observed by the
retainers and followers of courts."

8. Footnote: As early as the month of April, 1776, Turgot had said to
the ministers of Louis XVI--"The supposition of the absolute separation
between Great Britain and her Colonies seems to me infinitely probable.
This will be the result of it; when the independence of the Colonies
shall be entire and recognized by the English themselves, a total
revolution will follow in the political and commercial relations
between Europe and America; and I firmly believe that every other
mother-country will be forced to abandon all empire over her Colonies,
and to leave an entire freedom of commerce with all nations, to content
herself with partaking with others in the advantages of a free trade,
and with preserving the old ties of friendship and fraternity with her
former colonists. If this is an evil, I believe that there exists no
remedy or means of hindering it; that the only course to pursue is to
submit to the inevitable necessity, and console ourselves as best we
may under it. I must also observe, that there will be a very great
danger to all such powers as obstinately attempt to resist this course
of events; that after ruining themselves by efforts above their means,
they will still see their Colonies equally escape from them, and become
their bitter enemies, instead of remaining their allies." Mmoire de M.
Turgot,  l'occasion du Mmoire remis par M. le Compte de Vergennes sur
la manire dont la France at l'Espagne doivent envisager les suites de
la querelle entre la Grande Bretagne et ses Colonies. In "Politique de
tous les Cabinets de l'Europe pendant les Rgnes to Louis XV. et de
Louis XVI." Par L.P. Segue l'ain.

9. Footnote: The commissioners published their final manifesto and
proclamation to the Americans on the 3d of October, and on the 10th.
Congress issued a cautionary declaration in reply. No overtures were
made to the commissioners from any quarter, and not long after they
embarked for England. Thacher, in his "Military Journal," states that
"Governor Johnstone, one of the commissioners, with inexcusable
effrontery, offered a bribe to Mr. Reed, a member of Congress. In an
interview with Mrs. Ferguson at Philadelphia, whose husband was a
Royalist, he desired she would mention to Mr. Reed, that if he would
engage his interest to promote the object of their commission, he might
have any office in the Colonies in the gift of his Britannic majesty,
and ten thousand pounds in hand. Having solicited an interview with Mr.
Reed, Mrs. Ferguson made her communication. Spurning the idea of being
purchased, he replied that he was not worth purchasing, but such as he
was, the King of Great Britain was not rich enough to do it."

10. Footnote: They alleged that their horses had been disabled, and the
clothing embezzled.




CHAPTER XIV


MONMOUTH. 1778.


For prosecuting the campaign of 1778 Washington had not been provided
with an adequate force. The committee of Congress who visited the army
at Valley Forge had agreed that the army should consist of about 40,000
men, besides artillery and horse. In May (1778) the army, including the
detachments at different places, was found to amount only to 15,000,
with little prospect of increase. At Valley Forge Washington had
11,800. The British army at this time numbered 33,000. With such odds
the plan of operations for this season must necessarily be defensive.

From the position which Washington had taken at Valley Forge, and from
the activity and vigilance of his patrols, the British army in
Philadelphia was straitened for forage and fresh provisions. A
considerable number of the people of Pennsylvania were well affected to
the British cause and desirous of supplying the troops, while many more
were willing to carry victuals to Philadelphia, where they found a
ready market and payment in gold or silver, whereas the army at Valley
Forge could pay only in paper money of uncertain value. But it was not
easy to reach Philadelphia nor safe to attempt it, for the American
parties often intercepted and took the provisions without payment and
not unfrequently chastised those engaged. The first operations on the
part of the British, therefore, in the campaign of 1778, were
undertaken in order to procure supplies for the army. About the middle
of March a strong detachment, under Lieutenant-Colonel Mawhood, made a
foraging excursion for six or seven days into Jersey, surprised and
defeated the American parties at Hancock's and Quinton's bridges on
Always creek, which falls into the Delaware to the south of Reedy
Island, killed or took fifty or sixty of the militia prisoners, and
after a successful expedition returned to Philadelphia with little
loss.

A corps of Pennsylvania militia, daily varying in number, sometimes not
exceeding fifty, sometimes amounting to 600, under General Lacey, had
taken post at a place called Crooked Billet, about seventeen miles from
Philadelphia on the road to New York, for the purpose of intercepting
the country people who attempted to carry provisions to the British
army. Early on the morning of the 4th of May, Colonel Abercrombie and
Major Simcoe, with a strong detachment, attempted to surprise this
party, but Lacey escaped with little loss, except his baggage, which
fell into the hands of the enemy.

On the 7th of May the British undertook an expedition against the
galleys and other shipping which had escaped up the Delaware after the
reduction of Mud Island, and destroyed upward of forty vessels and some
stores and provisions. The undisputed superiority of the British naval
force and the consequent command of the Delaware gave them great
facilities in directing a suitable armament against any particular
point, and the movements of the militia, on whom Congress chiefly
depended for repelling sudden predatory incursions and for guarding the
roads to Philadelphia, were often tardy and inefficient. The roads were
ill guarded, and the British frequently accomplished their foraging and
returned to camp before an adequate force could be assembled to oppose
them.

To remedy these evils--to annoy the rear of the British troops in case
they evacuated Philadelphia, which it was now suspected they intended
to do, and also to form an advanced guard of the main army--Lafayette,
with upward of 2,000 chosen men and six pieces of artillery, was
ordered to the east of the Schuylkill, and took post on Barren Hill,
seven or eight miles in advance of the army at Valley Forge. Sir
William Howe immediately got notice of his position and formed a plan
to surprise and cut him off. For that purpose a detachment of 5,000 of
the best troops of the British army, under General Grant, marched from
Philadelphia on the night of the 20th of May and took the road which
runs along the Delaware and consequently does not lead directly to
Barren Hill. But after advancing a few miles the detachment turned to
the left, and proceeding by White Marsh passed at no great distance
from Lafayette's left flank and about sunrise reached a point in his
rear where two roads diverged, one leading to the camp of the marquis,
the other to Matson's ford, each about a mile distant. There General
Grant's detachment was first observed by the Americans, and the British
perceived by the rapid movements of some hostile horsemen that they
were seen. Both Lafayette's camp and the road leading from it to
Matson's ford were concealed from the British troops by intervening
woods and high grounds. General Grant spent some time in making
dispositions for the intended attack. That interval was actively
improved by Lafayette, who, although not apprised of the full extent of
his danger, acted with promptitude and decision. He marched rapidly to
Matson's ford, from which he was somewhat more distant than the British
detachment, and reached it while General Grant was advancing against
Barren Hill in the belief that Lafayette was still there. The Americans
hurried through the ford leaving their artillery behind, but on
discovering they were not closely pursued some of them returned and
dragged the field pieces across the river; a small party was also sent
into the woods to retard the progress of the British advanced guard, if
it should approach while the artillery was in the ford.

On finding the camp at Barren Hill deserted General Grant immediately
pursued in the track of the retreating enemy toward Matson's ford. His
advanced guard overtook some of the small American party, which had
been sent back to cover the passage of the artillery, before they could
recross the river and took or killed a few of them, but on reaching the
ford General Grant found Lafayette so advantageously posted on the
rising ground on the opposite bank and his artillery so judiciously
placed that it was deemed unadvisable to attack him. Thus the attempt
against Lafayette failed, although the plan was well concerted and on
the very point of success. In the British army sanguine expectations of
the favorable issue of the enterprise were entertained, and in order to
insure a happy result a large detachment, under General Grey, in the
course of the night took post at a ford of the Schuylkill, two or three
miles in front of Lafayette's right flank, to intercept him if he
should attempt to escape in that direction, while the main body of the
army advanced to Chestnut Hill to support the attack, but on the
failure of the enterprise the whole returned to Philadelphia.

General Grant's detachment was seen by Washington from the camp at
Valley Forge about the time it was discovered by the troops at Barren
Hill, alarm guns were fired by his order to warn Lafayette of his
danger, and the whole army was drawn out to be in readiness to act as
circumstances might require. The escape of the detachment was the cause
of much joy and congratulation in the American and of disappointment
and chagrin in the British army.

That a strong detachment of hostile troops should pass at a small
distance from Lafayette's flank and gain his rear unobserved seems to
argue a want of due vigilance on the part of that officer, but a
detachment of the Pennsylvania militia had been posted at a little
distance on his left and he relied on them for watching the roads in
that quarter. The militia, however, had quitted their station without
informing him of their movement, and consequently his left flank and
the roads about White Marsh remained unguarded.

This was the last enterprise attempted by Sir William Howe. Soon after
he resigned the command of the army. So far back as the month of
October in the preceding year he had requested to be relieved from the
painful service in which he was engaged. On the 14th of April, 1778, he
received the King's permission to resign, but at the same time he was
directed, while he continued in command, to embrace every opportunity
of putting an end to the war by a due employment of the force under his
orders. In the beginning of June after having received, in a triumphal
procession and festival, a testimony of the approbation and esteem of
the army he sailed for England, leaving the troops under the care of
Sir Henry Clinton as his successor.

Sir William Howe has been much blamed for inactivity and for not
overwhelming the Americans, but he was at least as successful as any
other general employed in the course of the war. He was cautious and
sparing of the lives of his men. In his operations he discovered a
respectable share of military science, and he met with no great
reverses. They who blame him for want of energy may look to the history
of Generals Burgoyne and Cornwallis for the fate of more enterprising
leaders in America.

About the time when Howe resigned the command of the army the British
government ordered the evacuation of Philadelphia. While the British
had an undisputed naval superiority Philadelphia was in some respects a
good military station. Although in all the States a decided majority of
the people gave their support to Congress, yet in every province south
of New England there was a considerable minority friendly to the claims
of the mother country. The occupation of Philadelphia, the principal
city of the confederation, encouraged the latter class of the
inhabitants, and the army there formed a point round which they might
rally. But Philadelphia is more than 100 miles up the Delaware, and as
Howe had been unable to drive Washington from the field he had found
some difficulty in subsisting his army in that city, even when the
British ships had the full command of the sea and could force their way
up the great rivers; but when the empire of the ocean was about to be
disputed by the French Philadelphia became a hazardous post on account
of the difficulty and uncertainty of procuring provisions, receiving
communications, or sending aid to such places as might be attacked. It
was accordingly resolved to abandon that city, and after shipping his
cavalry, formed of the German troops and American Loyalists, his
provision train and heavy baggage, on the few vessels that were in the
river, Clinton had to march the remainder of his army through the
Jerseys to New York, where the communication with the ocean is more
easy.

The preparations for this movement could not be so secretly made as to
escape the notice of the Americans, and to be in readiness for it was
one reason of detaching Lafayette to Barren Hill, where he had been
exposed to so much danger. Washington called in his detachments and
pressed the State governments to hasten the march of their new levies
in order that he might be enabled to act offensively; but the new
levies arrived slowly, and in some instances the State Legislatures
were deliberating on the means of raising them at the time when they
should have been in the field.

Although Washington was satisfied of the intention of the British
Commander-in-Chief to evacuate Philadelphia yet it was uncertain in
what way he would accomplish his purpose, but the opinion that he
intended to march through the Jerseys to New York gained ground in the
American camp; and in this persuasion Washington detached General
Maxwell with the Jersey brigade across the Delaware to cooperate with
General Dickinson, who was assembling the Jersey militia, in breaking
down the bridges, felling trees across the roads, and impeding and
harassing the British troops in their retreat, but with orders to be on
his guard against a sudden attack.

Washington summoned a council of war to deliberate on the measures to
be pursued in that emergency. It was unanimously resolved not to molest
the British army in passing the Delaware, but with respect to
subsequent operations there was much difference of opinion in the
council. General Lee, who had lately joined the army after his
exchange, was decidedly against risking either a general or partial
engagement. The British army he estimated at 10,000 men fit for duty,
exclusive of officers, while the American army did not amount to more
than 11,800; he was, therefore, of opinion that with so near an
equality of force it would be criminal to hazard a battle. He relied
much on the imposing attitude in which their late foreign alliance
placed them, and maintained that nothing but a defeat of the army could
now endanger their independence. Almost all the foreign officers agreed
in opinion with General Lee, and among the American generals only Wayne
and Cadwalader were decidedly in favor of attacking the enemy. Under
these circumstances Washington, although strongly inclined to fight,
found himself constrained to act with much circumspection.

Having made all the requisite preparations Sir Henry Clinton, early in
the morning of the 18th of June (1778), led the British army to the
confluence of the Delaware and Schuylkill, where boats and other
vessels were ready to receive them, and so judicious were the
arrangements made by Admiral Lord Howe that all the troops, with the
baggage and artillery, were carried across the Delaware and safely
landed on the Jersey side of the river before 10 in the forenoon. Many
of the Loyalists of Philadelphia accompanied the army, carrying their
effects along with them, and such of them as ventured to remain behind
met with little indulgence from their irritated countrymen. Several of
them were tried for their lives and two Quakers were executed. The
Americans entered the city before the British rear guard had entirely
left it.

There were two roads leading from Philadelphia to New York--the one
running along the western bank of the Delaware to Trenton Ferry, and
the other along the eastern bank to the same point. The British army
had wisely crossed the river at the point where it was least exposed to
molestation and entered on the last of these two roads. In marching
through a difficult and hostile country Sir Henry Clinton prudently
carried along with him a considerable quantity of baggage and a large
supply of provisions, so that the progress of the army, thus heavily
encumbered, was but slow. It proceeded leisurely through Huddersfield,
Mount Holly, and Crosswick, and reached Allentown on the 24th (June,
1778), having in seven days marched less than forty miles. This slow
progress made the Americans believe that Sir Henry Clinton wished to be
attacked. General Maxwell, who was posted at Mount Holly, retired on
his approach, and neither he nor General Dickinson was able to give him
much molestation.

As the march of the British army till it passed Crosswick was up the
Delaware, and only at a small distance from that river, Washington, who
left Valley Forge on the day that Sir Henry Clinton evacuated
Philadelphia, found it necessary to take a circuitous route and pass
the river higher up at Coryell's Ferry, where he crossed it on the 22d
and took post at Hopewell on the high grounds in that vicinity, and
remained during the 23d in that position.

From Allentown there were two roads to New York--one on the left,
passing through South Amboy to the North river; the other on the right,
leading to Sandy Hook. The first of these was somewhat shorter but the
river Raritan lay in the way and it might be difficult and dangerous to
pass it in presence of a hostile force. Sir Henry Clinton, therefore,
resolved to take the road to Sandy Hook by which the Raritan would be
altogether avoided.

Although a great majority in the American council of war were averse to
fighting, yet Washington was strongly inclined to attack the British
army. He summoned the council of war a second time and again submitted
the subject to their consideration, but they adhered to their former
opinion, and Washington, still inclined to attack the enemy, determined
to act on his own responsibility.

The Jersey militia and a brigade of Continentals, under Generals
Dickinson and Maxwell, hovered on the left flank of the British army;
General Cadwalader, with a Continental regiment and a few militia was
in its rear, and Colonel Morgan, with his rifle regiment 600 strong,
was on its right. These detachments were ordered to harass the enemy as
much as possible.

As Sir Henry Clinton proceeded on the route toward Sandy Hook
Washington strengthened his advanced guard till it amounted to 5,000
men. General Lee, from his rank, had a claim to the command of that
force, but at first he declined it and Lafayette was appointed to that
service. But General Lee perceiving the importance of the command
solicited the appointment which he had at first declined, and was
accordingly sent forward with a reinforcement, when, from seniority,
the whole of the advanced guard became subject to his orders.

On the evening of the 27th (June, 1778) Sir Henry Clinton took a strong
position on the high grounds about Freehold Court House, in the county
of Monmouth. His right was posted in a small wood; his left was covered
by a thick forest and a morass; he had a wood in front, also a marsh
for a considerable space toward his left, and he was within twelve
miles of the high grounds at Middletown, after reaching which no
attempt could be made upon him with any prospect of success. His
position was unassailable, but Washington resolved to attack his rear
in the morning, as soon as it descended from the high grounds into the
plain beyond them and gave orders accordingly to Lee, who was at
Englishtown, three miles in the rear of the British army and as much in
advance of the main body of the Americans.

By the strong parties on his flanks and rear Clinton was convinced that
the hostile army was at hand, and suspecting that an attempt on his
baggage was intended on the morning of the 28th he changed his order of
march and put all the baggage under the care of General Knyphausen, who
commanded the van division of his army, in order that the rear
division, consisting of the flower of the troops under Cornwallis,
might be unencumbered and ready to act as circumstances might require.
Clinton remained with the rear division.

To avoid pressing on Knyphausen Cornwallis remained on his ground until
about 8, and then descending from the heights of Freehold into an
extensive plain took up his line of march in rear of the front
division.

General Lee had made dispositions for executing orders given the
preceding evening, and repeated in the morning, and soon after the
British rear had moved from its ground prepared to attack it. General
Dickinson had been directed to detach some of his best troops, to take
such a position as to cooperate with him, and Morgan, with his
riflemen, was ordered to act on the right flank.

Lee appeared on the heights of Freehold soon after Cornwallis had left
them, and following the British into the plain ordered General Wayne to
attack the rear of their covering party with sufficient vigor to check
it, but not to press it so closely as either to force it up to the main
body or to draw reinforcements to its aid. In the meantime he intended
to gain the front of this party by a shorter road, and, intercepting
its communication with the line, to bear it off before it could be
assisted. While in the execution of this design an officer in the suite
of Washington came up to gain intelligence and Lee communicated to him
his present object. Before he reached the point of destination,
however, there was reason to believe that the British rear was much
stronger than had been conjectured. The intelligence on this subject
being contradictory, and the face of the country well calculated to
conceal the truth, he deemed it advisable to ascertain the fact
himself.

Sir Henry Clinton, soon after the rear division was in full march,
received intelligence that an American column had appeared on his left
flank. This, being a corps of militia, was soon dispersed and the march
was continued. When his rear guard had descended from the heights he
saw it followed by a strong corps, soon after which a cannonade was
commenced upon it, and at the same time a respectable force showed
itself on each of his flanks. Suspecting a design on his baggage he
determined to attack the troops in his rear so vigorously as to compel
a recall of those on his flanks, and for this purpose marched back his
whole rear division. This movement was in progress as Lee advanced for
the purpose of reconnoitering. He soon perceived his mistake respecting
the force of the British rear, but still determined to engage on that
ground although his judgment disapproved the measure--there being a
morass immediately in his rear, which would necessarily impede the
reinforcements which might be advancing to his aid and embarrass his
retreat should he be finally overpowered. This was about 10. While both
armies were preparing for action General Scott (as stated by General
Lee) mistook an oblique march of an American column for a retreat, and
in the apprehension of being abandoned left his position and repassed
the ravine in his rear.

Being himself of opinion that the ground was unfavorable Lee did not
correct the error he ascribed to Scott but ordered the whole detachment
to regain the heights. He was closely pressed and some slight
skirmishing ensued without much loss on either side.

As soon as the firing announced the commencement of the action the rear
division of the army advanced rapidly to the support of the front. As
they approached the scene of action, Washington, who had received no
intelligence from Lee giving notice of his retreat, rode forward, and
to his utter astonishment and mortification met the advanced corps
retiring before the enemy without having made a single effort to
maintain its ground. The troops he first saw neither understood the
motives which had governed Lee nor his present design, and could give
no other information than that by his orders they had fled without
fighting.

Washington rode to the rear of the division where he met Lee, to whom
he spoke in terms of some warmth, implying disapprobation of his
conduct. [2]

Orders were immediately given to Colonel Stewart and Lieutenant-Colonel
Ramsay to form their regiments for the purpose of checking the pursuit,
and Lee was directed to take proper measures with the residue of his
force to stop the British column on that ground. Washington then rode
back to arrange the rear division of the army.

These orders were executed with firmness, and, when forced from his
ground, Lee brought off his troops in good order, and was directed to
form in the rear of Englishtown.

This check afforded time to draw up the left wing and second line of
the American army on an eminence covered by a morass in front. Lord
Stirling, who commanded the left wing, brought up a detachment of
artillery under Lieutenant-Colonel Carrington, and some field pieces,
which played with considerable effect on a division of the British
which had passed the morass, and was pressing on to the charge. These
pieces, with the aid of several parties of infantry, effectually
stopped the advance of the enemy.

Finding themselves warmly opposed in front, the British attempted to
turn the left flank of the American army, but were repulsed. They then
attempted the right with as little success. General Greene had advanced
a body of troops with artillery to a commanding piece of ground in his
front, which not only disappointed the design of turning the right, but
enfiladed the party which yet remained in front of the left wing.

At this moment General Wayne was advanced with a body of infantry to
engage them in front, who kept up so hot and well-directed a fire that
they soon withdrew behind the ravine to the ground on which the action
had commenced immediately after the arrival of Washington.

Lafayette, speaking of this battle, said: "Never was General Washington
greater in war than in this action. His presence stopped the retreat.
His dispositions fixed the victory. His fine appearance on horseback,
his calm courage roused by the animation produced by the vexation of
the morning, gave him the air best calculated to excite enthusiasm."

The position now taken by the British army was very strong. Both flanks
were secured by thick woods and morasses, and their front was
accessible only through a narrow pass. The day had been intensely hot,
and the troops were much fatigued. Notwithstanding these circumstances,
Washington resolved to renew the engagement. For this purpose he
ordered Brigadier-General Poor, with his own and the North Carolina
brigade, to gain their right flank, while Woodford with his brigade
should turn their left. At the same time the artillery was ordered to
advance and play on their front. These orders were obeyed with
alacrity, but the impediments on the flanks of the British were so
considerable, that before they could be overcome it was nearly dark.
Further operations were therefore deferred until next morning; and the
brigades which had been detached to the flanks of the British army
continued on their ground through

[missing text]

the justifiable claims, there can be no doubt but they will, as
heretofore, upon the first favorable occasion, again display that lust
of domination which hath rent in twain the mighty empire of Britain."

They further reported it as their opinion that any men or body of men
who should presume to make any separate or partial convention or
agreement with commissioners under the Crown of Great Britain should be
considered and treated as open and avowed enemies of the United States.
The committee further gave it as their opinion that the United States
could not hold any conference with the British commissioners unless
Britain first withdrew her fleets and armies, or in positive and
express terms acknowledged the independence of the States.

While these things were going on, Mr. Silas Deane arrived from Paris
with the important and gratifying information that treaties of alliance
and commerce had been concluded between France and the United States.
This intelligence diffused a lively joy throughout America and was
received by the people as the harbinger of their independence. The
alliance had been long expected, and the delays thrown in the way of
its accomplishment had excited many uneasy apprehensions. But these
were now dissipated, and, to the fond imaginations of the people, all
the prospects of the United States appeared gilded with the cheering
beams of prosperity.

Writing to the President of Congress on this occasion (May 4, 1778),
Washington says: "Last night at 11 o'clock I was honored with your
dispatches of the 3d. The contents afford me the most sensible
pleasure. Mr. Silas Deane had informed me by a line from Bethlehem that
he was the bearer of the articles of alliance between France and the
States. I shall defer celebrating this happy event in a suitable manner
until I have liberty from Congress to announce it publicly. I will only
say that the army are anxious to manifest their joy upon the occasion."

On the 7th of May the great event referred to in the preceding extract
was celebrated by the army at Valley Forge with the highest enthusiasm.
The following general orders were issued by Washington on the day
before:

"It having pleased the Almighty Ruler of the universe to defend the
cause of the United American States, and finally to raise us up a
powerful friend among the princes of the earth, to establish our
liberty and independency upon a lasting foundation, it becomes us to
set apart a day for gratefully acknowledging the Divine goodness and
celebrating the important event, which we owe to his Divine
interposition. The several brigades are to be assembled for this
purpose at 9 o'clock to-morrow morning, when their chaplains will
communicate the intelligence contained in the postscript of the
'Pennsylvania Gazette' of the 2d instant, and offer up thanksgiving and
deliver a discourse suitable to the occasion. At half after 10 o'clock
a cannon will be fired, which is to be a signal for the men to be under
arms; the brigade inspectors will then inspect their dress and arms and
form the battalions according to the instructions given them, and
announce to the commanding officers of the brigade that the battalions
are formed.

"The commanders of brigades will then appoint the field officers to the
battalions, after which each battalion will be ordered to load and
ground their arms. At half-past 11 a second cannon will be fired as a
signal for the march, upon which the several brigades will begin their
march by wheeling to the right by platoons and proceed by the nearest
way to the left of their ground by the new position; this will be
pointed out by the brigade inspectors. A third signal will then be
given, on which there will be a discharge of thirteen cannon, after
which a running fire of the infantry will begin on the right of
Woodford's and continue throughout the front line; it will then be
taken upon the left of the second line and continue to the right. Upon
a signal given, the whole army will huzza, 'Long live the King of
France!' The artillery then begins again and fires thirteen rounds;
this will be succeeded by a second general discharge of the musketry in
a running fire, and huzza, 'Long live the friendly European Powers!'
The last discharge of thirteen pieces of artillery will be given,
followed by a general running fire and huzza, 'The American States!'"

An officer who was present describes the scene as follows:

"Last Wednesday was set apart as a day of general rejoicing, when we
had a _feu de joie_ conducted with the greatest order and regularity.
The army made a most brilliant appearance, after which his Excellency
dined in public, with all the officers of his army, attended with a
band of music. I never was present where there was such unfeigned and
perfect joy as was discovered in every countenance. The entertainment
was concluded with a number of patriotic toasts, attended with huzzas.
When the General took his leave there was a universal clap, with loud
huzzas, which continued till he had proceeded a quarter of a mile,
during which time there were a thousand hats tossed in the air. His
Excellency turned round with his retinue and huzzaed several times."

Dr. Thacher, in his "Military Journal," mentions the presence of
"Washington's lady and suite, Lord Stirling and the Countess of
Stirling, with other general officers and ladies," at this _fte_. Our
readers, after passing with us through the dismal scenes of the
preceding winter, will readily sympathize with the army in the feelings
attending this celebration. It is worthy of special notice that in his
general order Washington was careful to give the religious feature of
the scene a prominent place by distinctly acknowledging the Divine
interposition in favor of the country. This was his invariable habit on
all occasions. Religion with him was not merely an opinion, a creed, or
a sentiment. It was a deep-rooted, all-pervading feeling, governing his
life and imparting earnestness, dignity, and power to all his actions.
Hence the reverence and affection which was the voluntary homage of all
who knew him.

Lord North's conciliatory bills, as we have seen, were not acceptable
to Congress. Washington's views in relation to them are given in the
following letter, written to a member of that body two days after he
had learned the terms proposed by the British government:

"Nothing short of independence, it appears to me, can possibly do. A
peace on other terms would, if I may be allowed the expression, be a
peace of war. The injuries we have received from the British nation
were so unprovoked, and have been so great and so many, that they can
never be forgotten. Besides the feuds, the jealousies, the animosities
that would ever attend a union with them; besides the importance, the
advantages, which we should derive from an unrestricted commerce, our
fidelity as a people, our gratitude, our character as men, are opposed
to a coalition with them but in case of the last extremity. Were we
easily to accede to terms of dependence, no nation, upon future
occasions, let the oppression of Britain be ever so flagrant and
unjust, would interpose for our relief, or, at most; they would do it
with a cautious reluctance and upon conditions most probably that would
be hard, if not dishonorable, to us."

Congress fully agreed in these views and rejected the advances of the
British government, refusing all terms of accommodation which did not
begin with the withdrawal is probable that explanations might have been
made which would have rescued him from the imputations that were cast
on him, and have restored him to the esteem of the army, could his
haughty temper have brooked the indignity he believed to have been
offered him on the field of battle. Washington had taken no measures in
consequence of the events of that day, and would probably have come to
no resolution concerning them without an amicable explanation, when he
received from Lee a letter expressed in very unbecoming terms, in which
he, in the tone of a superior, required reparation for the injury
sustained "from the very singular expressions" said to have been used
on the day of the action by Washington.

This letter was answered (July 30, 1778) by an assurance that, so soon
as circumstances would admit of an inquiry, he should have an
opportunity of justifying himself to the army, to America, and to the
world in general; or of convincing them that he had been guilty of
disobedience of orders and misbehavior before the enemy. On his
expressing a wish for a speedy investigation of his conduct, and for a
court-martial rather than a court of inquiry, he was arrested--first,
for disobedience of orders in not attacking the enemy on the 28th of
June, agreeably to repeated instructions; secondly, for misbehavior
before the enemy on the same day, in making an unnecessary, disorderly,
and shameful retreat; and thirdly, for disrespect to the
Commander-in-Chief in two letters.

Before this correspondence had taken place, strong and specific charges
of misconduct had been made against General Lee by several officers of
his detachment, and particularly by Generals Wayne and Scott. In these,
the transactions of the day, not being well understood, were
represented in colors much more unfavorable to Lee than facts, when
properly explained, would seem to justify.

These representations, most probably, induced the strong language of
the second article in the charge. A court-martial, over which Lord
Stirling presided, after a tedious investigation, found him guilty of
all the charges exhibited against him, and sentenced him to be
suspended for one year. This sentence was afterward, though with some
hesitation, approved almost unanimously by Congress. The court,
softened in some degree the severity of the second charge, by finding
him guilty, not in its very words, but "of misbehavior before the
enemy, by making an unnecessary, and, in some few instances, a
disorderly retreat."

Lee defended himself with his accustomed ability. He proved that, after
the retreat had commenced, in consequence of General Scott's repassing
the ravine, on the approach of the enemy, he had designed to form on
the first advantageous piece of ground he could find; and that in his
own opinion, and in the opinion of some other officers, no safe and
advantageous position had presented itself until he met Washington, at
which time it was his intention to fight the enemy on the very ground
afterwards taken by Washington himself. He suggested a variety of
reasons in justification of his retreat, which, if they do not
absolutely establish its propriety, give it so questionable a form as
to render it probable that a public examination never would have taken
place, could his proud spirit have stooped to offer explanation instead
of outrage to the Commander-in-Chief.

His suspension gave general satisfaction through the army. Without
judging harshly of his conduct as a military man, they perfectly
understood the insult offered to their general by his letters; and,
whether rightly or not, believed his object to have been to disgrace
Washington and to obtain the supreme command for himself. So devotedly
were all ranks attached to their general, that the mere suspicion of
such a design would have rendered his continuance in the army extremely
difficult.

Whatever judgment may be formed on the propriety of his retreat, it is
not easy to justify either the omission to keep the Commander-in-Chief
continually informed of his situation and intentions, or the very rude
letters written after the action was over.

The battle of Monmouth gave great satisfaction to Congress. A
resolution was passed unanimously, thanking Washington for the activity
with which he marched from the camp at Valley Forge in pursuit of the
enemy; for his distinguished exertions in forming the line of battle,
and for his great good conduct in the action; and he was requested to
signify the thanks of Congress to the officers and men under his
command who distinguished themselves by their conduct and valor in the
battle.

After the battle of Monmouth, Washington gave his army one day's
repose, and then (June 30, 1778,) commenced his march toward Brunswick,
at which place he encamped, and remained for several days. Thence he
sent out parties to reconnoiter the enemy's position, and learn his
intentions. Among other persons sent out with this design was Aaron
Burr, a lieutenant-colonel, who had served in Arnold's expedition to
Quebec, and who was destined to become a conspicuous person in American
history.

Clinton had arrived with his army in the neighborhood of Sandy Hook on
the 30th of June. Here he was met by Lord Howe with the fleet, which
had just arrived from Philadelphia. Sandy Hook having been converted by
the winter storms from a peninsula to an island, Lord Howe caused a
bridge of boats to be constructed, over which Clinton's army passed
from the mainland to the Hook. It was soon afterward distributed into
different encampments on Staten Island, Long Island, and the island of
New York.

When Washington had learned that the British army was thus situated, he
was satisfied that Clinton had no present intention of passing up the
Hudson, and he halted a few days at Paramus, at which place he received
intelligence of an important event which will claim our attention in
the next chapter.

1. Footnote: Spencer, "History of the United States."

2. Footnote: This interview between Washington and Lee was followed by
such important results that one is naturally curious to know exactly
what passed between them. The interview is described by Lee himself in
his defense before the court-martial:

"When I arrived first in his presence, conscious of having done nothing
which could draw on me the least censure, but rather flattering myself
with his congratulation and applause, I confess I was disconcerted,
astonished, and confounded by the words and manner in which his
Excellency accosted me. It was so novel and unexpected from a man,
whose discretion, humanity, and decorum I had from the first of our
acquaintance stood in admiration of, that I was for some time unable to
make any coherent answer to questions so abrupt, and in a great measure
to me unintelligible. The terms, I think, were these: 'I desire to
know, sir, what is the reason, whence arises this disorder and
confusion?' The manner in which he expressed them was much stronger and
more severe than the expressions themselves. When I recovered myself
sufficiently, I answered that I saw or knew of no confusion but what
naturally arose from disobedience of orders, contradictory
intelligence, and the impertinence and presumption of individuals, who
were invested with no authority, intruding themselves in matters above
them and out of their sphere; that the retreat in the first instance
was contrary to my intentions, contrary to my orders, and contrary to
my wishes."

Washington replied that all this might be true, but that he ought not
to have undertaken the enterprise unless he intended to go through with
it. He then rode away, and ordered some of the retreating regiments to
be formed on the ground which he pointed out.

Gordon says that, after the first meeting with Lee, Washington rode on
towards the rear of the retreating troops. He had not gone many yards
before he met his secretary, who told him that the British army were
within fifteen minutes' march of that place, which was the first
intelligence he received of their pushing on so briskly. He remained
there till the extreme rear of the retreating troops got up, when,
looking about, and judging the ground to be an advantageous spot for
giving the enemy the first check, he ordered Colonel Stewart's and
Lieutenant-Colonel Ramsey's battalions to form and incline to their
left, that they might be under cover of a corner of woods, and not be
exposed to the enemy's cannon in front. Lee having been told by one of
his aids that Washington had taken the command, answered, "Then I have
nothing further to do," and turned his horse and rode after his
Excellency in front. Washington, on his coming up, asked, "Will you
command on this ground or not? If you will, I will return to the main
body and have them formed upon the next height." Lee replied, "It is
equal with me where I command." Washington then told him, "I expect you
will take proper measures for checking the enemy," Lee said, "Your
orders shall be obeyed, and I will not be the first to leave the
field." Washington then rode to the main army, which was formed with
the utmost expedition on the eminence, with the morass in front.
Immediately upon his riding off, a warm cannonade commenced between the
British and American artillery on the right of Stewart and Ramsay,
between whom and the advanced troops of the British army a heavy fire
began soon after in the skirt of the woods before mentioned. The
British pressed on close; their light horse charged upon the right of
the Americans, and the latter were obliged to give way in such haste,
that the British horse and infantry came out of the wood seemingly
mixed with them.

The action then commenced between the British and Colonel Livingston's
regiment, together with Varnum's brigade, which had been drawn up by
Lee's order, and lined the fence that stretched across the open field
in front of the bridge over the morass, with the view of covering the
retreat of the artillery and the troops advanced with them. The
artillery had timely retired to the rear of the fence, and from an
eminence discharged several rounds of shot at the British engaged with
Livingston's and Varnum's troops; these were soon broken by a charge of
the former, and retired. The artillery were then ordered off. Prior to
the commencement of the last action, Lee sent orders to Colonel Ogden,
who had drawn up in the wood nearest the bridge to defend that post to
the last extremity, thereby to cover the retreat of the whole over the
bridge. Lee was one of the last that remained on the field, and brought
off the rear of the retreating troops. Upon his addressing General
Washington, after passing the morass, with, "Sir, here are my troops,
how is it your pleasure that I should dispose of them?" he was ordered
to arrange them in the rear of Englishtown.




CHAPTER XV.


WASHINGTON DIRECTS A DESCENT ON RHODE ISLAND. 1778.


Previous to evacuating Philadelphia, Clinton had received notice from
his government that, in consequence of the alliance between France and
the United States, a new plan of operations had been determined on. The
French were to be attacked in their West Indian possessions by way of
diversion from the main scene of action. Five thousand men were
detached from his army to aid in the execution of this purpose, and
3,000 were sent to Florida. Clinton was also apprised that a French
fleet would probably appear in the Delaware and thus prevent any
possibility of his leaving Philadelphia by water. Hence his sudden
departure from Philadelphia with the remainder of his forces. He was
only just in time to save his army and Lord Howe's fleet.

On the 5th of July (1778), the day on which the British army arrived at
New York, the Count D'Estaing, with a French fleet, appeared on the
coast of Virginia.

In the month of March the French ambassador in London, by order of his
government, notified to the British court the treaties entered into
between France and America. In a few days afterward he quitted London
without the ceremony of taking leave, and about the same time the
British ambassador left Paris in a similar manner. This was considered
equivalent to a declaration of war, and although war was not actually
declared, yet both parties diligently prepared for hostilities.

The French equipped at Toulon a fleet of twelve sail of the line and
six frigates, and gave the command to Count D'Estaing, who, with a
considerable number of troops on board, sailed on the 13th of April
(1778); but meeting with contrary winds he did not reach the coast of
America till the 5th of July. He expected to find the British army in
Philadelphia and the fleet in the Delaware, and if this expectation had
been realized the consequences to Britain must have been calamitous.
But the British fleet and army were at Sandy Hook or New York before
the French fleet arrived on the coast. Count D'Estaing touched at the
capes of the Delaware on the 5th of July, and on learning that the
British had evacuated Philadelphia, he dispatched one of his frigates
up the river with M. Gerard, the first minister from France to the
United States, and then sailed for Sandy Hook.

Washington received intelligence of D'Estaing's arrival in a letter
from the President of Congress while he was at Paramus. The next day he
received a second letter on the same subject, enclosing two
resolutions--one directing him to cooperate with the French admiral and
the other authorizing him to call on the States from New Hampshire to
New Jersey, inclusive, for such aids of militia as he might deem
necessary for the operations of the allied arms. He determined to
proceed immediately to White Plains, whence the army might cooperate
with more facility in the execution of any attempt which might be made
by the fleet, and dispatched Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens, one of his
aides-de-camp, with all the information relative to the enemy, as well
as to his own army, which might be useful to D'Estaing.
Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens was authorized to consult on future conjoint
operations, and to establish conventional signals for the purpose of
facilitating the communication of intelligence.

The French admiral, on arriving off the Hook, dispatched Major de
Choisi, a gentleman of his family, to Washington for the purpose of
communicating fully his views and his strength. His first object was to
attack New York. If this should be found impracticable, he was desirous
of turning his attention to Rhode Island. To assist in coming to a
result on these enterprises, Washington dispatched Lieutenant-Colonel
Hamilton, another of his aides-de-camp, with such further
communications as had been suggested by inquiries made since the
departure of Laurens.

Fearing that the water on the bar at the entrance of the harbor was not
of sufficient depth to admit the passage of the largest ships of the
French fleet without much difficulty and danger, Washington had turned
his attention to other objects which might be eventually pursued.
General Sullivan, who commanded the troops in Rhode Island, was
directed (July 21, 1778) to prepare for an enterprise against Newport,
and Lafayette was detached with two brigades to join him at Providence.
The next day Lieutenant-Colonel Hamilton returned to camp with the
final determination of the Count D'Estaing to relinquish the meditated
attack on the fleet in the harbor of New York, in consequence of the
impracticability of passing the bar.

General Greene was immediately ordered to Rhode Island, of which State
he was a native, and Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens was directed to attach
himself to the French admiral and to facilitate all his views by
procuring whatever might give them effect, after which he was to act
with the army under Sullivan.

Writing to the President of Congress (August 3, 1778), Washington says:
"As the army was encamped and there was no great prospect of a sudden
removal, I judged it advisable to send General Greene to the eastward
on Wednesday last, being fully persuaded his services, as well in the
quartermaster line as in the field, would be of material importance in
the expedition against the enemy in that quarter. He is intimately
acquainted with the whole of that country, and, besides, he has an
extensive interest and influence in it. And, in justice to General
Greene, I take occasion to observe that the public is much indebted to
him for his judicious management and active exertions in his present
department. When he entered upon it, he found it in a most confused,
distracted, and destitute state. This, by his conduct and industry, has
undergone a very happy change and such as enabled us, with great
facility, to make a sudden move, with the whole army and baggage, from
Valley Forge, in pursuit of the enemy, and to perform a march to this
place. In a word, he has given the most general satisfaction, and his
affairs carry much the face of method and system. I also consider it as
an act of justice to speak of the conduct of Colonel Wadsworth,
commissary-general. He has been indefatigable in his exertions to
provide for the army, and, since his appointment, our supplies of
provision have been good and ample."

We copy this extract from Washington's correspondence because it does
justice to Greene and gives us information of the favorable change
which had taken place in the condition of the army since its dreary
sojourn at Valley Forge.

The resolution being taken to proceed against Rhode Island, the fleet
got under way and on the 25th of July (1778) appeared off Newport and
cast anchor about five miles from that place; soon after which General
Sullivan visited D'Estaing and concerted with him a plan of operations.
The fleet was to enter the harbor and land the French troops on the
west side of the island, a little to the north of Dyer's Island. The
Americans were to land at the same time on the opposite coast under
cover of the guns of a frigate.

A delay of several days now took place on account of the tardiness of
the neighboring militia in joining Sullivan's army.

As the militia of New Hampshire and Massachusetts approached, Sullivan
joined Greene at Tiverton and it was agreed with the admiral that the
fleet should enter the main channel immediately (August 8th), and that
the descent should be made the succeeding day. The French fleet passed
the British batteries and entered the harbor without receiving or doing
any considerable damage.

The militia not arriving precisely at the time they were expected,
Sullivan could not hazard the movement which had been concerted, and
stated to the Count the necessity of postponing it till the next day.
Meanwhile the preparations for the descent being perceived, General
Pigot drew the troops which had been stationed on the north end of the
island into the lines at Newport.

On discovering this circumstance the next morning, Sullivan determined
to avail himself of it and to take immediate possession of the works
which had been abandoned. The whole army crossed the east passage and
landed on the north end of Rhode Island. This movement gave great
offense to D'Estaing who resented the indelicacy supposed to have been
committed by Sullivan in landing before the French and without
consulting him.

Unfortunately some difficulties on subjects of mere punctilio had
previously arisen. D'Estaing was a land as well as sea officer, and
held the high rank of lieutenant-general in the service of France.
Sullivan being only a major-general, some misunderstanding on this
delicate point had been apprehended, and Washington had suggested to
him the necessity of taking every precaution to avoid it. This, it was
supposed, had been effected in their first conference, in which it was
agreed that the Americans should land first, after which the French
should land to be commanded by D'Estaing in person. The motives for
this arrangement are not stated. Either his own after-reflections or
the suggestions of others dissatisfied D'Estaing with it and he
insisted that the descent should be made on both sides of the island
precisely at the same instant, and that one wing of the American army
should be attached to the French and land with them. He also declined
commanding in person and wished Lafayette to take charge of the French
troops as well as of the Americans attached to them.

It being feared that this alteration of the plan might endanger both
its parts D'Estaing was prevailed on to reduce his demand from one wing
of the American army to 1,000 militia. When afterward Sullivan crossed
over into the island before the time to which he had himself postponed
the descent, and without giving previous notice to the count of this
movement, considerable excitement was manifested. The count refused to
answer Sullivan's letter, and charged Lieutenant-Colonel Fleury, who
delivered it, with being more an American than a Frenchman.

At this time a British fleet appeared which, after sailing close into
the land and communicating with General Pigot, withdrew some distance
and came to anchor off Point Judith, just without the narrow inlet
leading into the harbor.

After it had been ascertained that the destination of the Count
D'Estaing was America, he was followed by a squadron of twelve ships of
the line under Admiral Byron who was designed to relieve Lord Howe,
that nobleman having solicited his recall. The vessels composing this
squadron meeting with weather unusually bad for the season, and being
separated in different storms, arrived, after lingering through a
tedious passage in various degrees of distress, on different and remote
parts of the American coast. Between the departure of D'Estaing from
the Hook on the 23d of July (1778) and the 30th of that month, four
ships of sixty-four and fifty guns arrived at Sandy Hook.

This addition to the British fleet, though it left Lord Howe
considerably inferior to the Count D'Estaing, determined him to attempt
the relief of Newport. He sailed from New York on the 6th of August and
on the 9th appeared in sight of the French fleet before intelligence of
his departure could be received by the admiral.

At the time of his arrival the wind set directly into the harbor so
that it was impossible to get out of it, but it shifted suddenly to the
northeast the next morning and the count determined to stand out to sea
and give battle. Previous to leaving port (August 10th) he informed
General Sullivan that on his return he would land his men as that
officer should advise.

Not choosing to give the advantage of the weather-gauge Lord Howe also
weighed anchor and stood out to sea. He was followed by D'Estaing, and
both fleets were soon out of sight.

The militia were now arrived and Sullivan's army amounted to 10,000
men. Notwithstanding some objections made by Lafayette to his
commencing operations before the return of D'Estaing, Sullivan
determined to commence the siege immediately. Before this determination
could be executed a furious storm blew down all the tents, rendered the
arms unfit for immediate use, and greatly damaged the ammunition, of
which fifty rounds had just been delivered to each man. The soldiers
having no shelter suffered extremely, and several perished in the storm
which continued three days. On the return of fair weather the siege was
commenced and continued without any material circumstance for several
days.

As no intelligence had been received from the admiral the situation of
the American army was becoming very critical. On the evening of the
19th their anxieties were relieved for a moment by the reappearance of
the French fleet.

The two admirals, desirous the one of gaining and the other of
retaining the advantage of the wind, had employed two days in
maneuvering without coming to action. Toward the close of the second
they were on the point of engaging when they were separated by the
violent storm which had been so severely felt on shore and which
dispersed both fleets. Some single vessels afterward fell in with each
other, but no important capture was made, and both fleets retired in a
very shattered condition, the one to the harbor of New York and the
other to that of Newport.

A letter was immediately dispatched by D'Estaing to Sullivan, informing
him that, in pursuance of orders from the King and of the advice of all
his officers, he had taken the resolution to carry the fleet to Boston.
His instructions directed him to sail for Boston should his fleet meet
with any disaster or should a superior British fleet appear on the
coast.

To be abandoned by the fleet in such critical circumstances and not
only deprived of the brilliant success which they thought within their
reach, but exposed to imminent hazard, caused much disappointment,
irritation, and alarm in the American camp. Lafayette and Greene were
dispatched to D'Estaing to remonstrate with him on the subject and to
press his cooperation and assistance for two days only, in which time
they flattered themselves the most Brilliant success would crown their
efforts. But the count was not popular in the fleet; he was a military
officer as well as a naval commander, and was considered as belonging
to the army rather than to the navy. The officers of the sea service
looked on him with a jealous and envious eye and were willing to thwart
him as far as they were able with safety to themselves. When, on the
pressing application of Lafayette and Greene, he again submitted the
matter to their consideration, they took advantage of the letter of the
admiral's instructions and unanimously adhered to their former
resolution, sacrificing the service of their prince to their own petty
jealousies and animosities. D'Estaing, therefore, felt himself
constrained to set sail for Boston.

The departure of the French marine force left Sullivan's army in a
critical situation. It was in a firm reliance on the cooperation of the
French fleet that the expedition was undertaken, and its sudden and
unexpected departure not only disappointed the sanguine hopes of speedy
success, but exposed the army to much hazard, for the British troops
under General Pigot might have been reinforced and the fleet might have
cut off Sullivan's retreat.

The departure of the French fleet greatly discouraged the American
army, and in a few days Sullivan's force was considerably diminished by
desertion. On the 26th of August he therefore resolved to raise the
siege and retreat to the north end of the island, and took the
necessary precautions for the successful execution of that movement.

In the night of the 28th, Sullivan silently decamped and retired
unobserved. Early in the morning the British discovered his retreat and
instantly commenced a pursuit. They soon overtook the light troops who
covered the retreat of the American army, and who continued skirmishing
and retreating till they reached the north end of the island, where the
army occupied a strong position at a place where the British formerly
had a fortified post, the works of which had been strengthened during
the two preceding days. There a severe conflict for about half an hour
ensued, when the combatants mutually withdrew from the field. The loss
of the armies was nearly equal, amounting to between two and three
hundred killed or wounded in the course of the day.

On the 30th of August there was a good deal of cannonading, but neither
party ventured to attack the other. The British were expecting
reinforcements, and Sullivan, although he made a show of resolutely
maintaining his post, was busily preparing for the evacuation of the
island. In the evening he silently struck his tents, embarked his army,
with all the artillery, baggage, and stores, on board a great number of
boats and landed safely on the continent before the British suspected
his intention to abandon the post. General Sullivan made a timely
escape, for Sir Henry Clinton was on his way, with 4,000 men, to the
assistance of General Pigot. He was detained four days in the Sound by
contrary winds, but arrived on the day after the Americans left the
island. A very short delay would probably have proved fatal to their
army.

The most sanguine expectations had been entertained throughout the
United States of the reduction of Rhode Island and the capture of the
British force which defended it, so that the disappointment and
mortification on the failure of the enterprise were exceedingly bitter.
The irritation against the French, who were considered the authors of
the miscarriage, was violent. Sullivan was confident of success; and
his chagrin at the departure of the French fleet made him use some
expressions, in a general order, which gave offense to D'Estaing.

Washington foresaw the evils likely to result from the general and
mutual irritation which prevailed, and exerted all his influence to
calm the minds of both parties. He had a powerful coadjutor in
Lafayette, who was as deservedly dear to the Americans as to the
French. His first duties were due to his King and country, but he loved
America, and was so devoted to the Commander-in-Chief of its armies, as
to enter into his views and second his softening conciliatory measures
with truly filial affection. Washington also wrote to General Heath,
who commanded at Boston, and to Sullivan and Greene, who commanded at
Rhode Island. In his letter to General Heath he stated his fears "that
the departure of the French fleet from Rhode Island at so critical a
moment, would not only weaken the confidence of the people in their new
allies, but produce such prejudice and resentment as might prevent
their giving the fleet, in its present distress, such zealous and
effectual assistance as was demanded by the exigency of affairs and the
true interests of America;" and added "that it would be sound policy to
combat these effects and to give the best construction of what had
happened; and at the same time to make strenuous exertions for putting
the French fleet, as soon as possible, in a condition to defend itself
and be useful." He also observed as follows: "The departure of the
fleet from Rhode Island is not yet publicly announced here; but when it
is, I intend to ascribe it to necessity produced by the damage received
in the late storm. This, it appears to me, is the idea which ought to
be generally propagated. As I doubt not the force of these reasons will
strike you equally with myself, I would recommend to you to use your
utmost influence to palliate and soften matters, and to induce those
whose business it is to provide succors of every kind for the fleet, to
employ their utmost zeal and activity in doing it. It is our duty to
make the best of our misfortunes and not suffer passion to interfere
with our interest and the public good."

Writing to General Sullivan he observed: "The disagreement between the
army under your command and the fleet has given me very singular
uneasiness. The continent at large is concerned in our cordiality, and
it should be kept up by all possible means consistent with our honor
and policy. First impressions are generally longest retained, and will
serve to fix in a great degree our national character with the French.
In our conduct toward them we should remember that they are a people
old in war, very strict in military etiquette, and apt to take fire
when others seem scarcely warmed. Permit me to recommend, in the most
particular manner, the cultivation of harmony and good agreement, and
your endeavors to destroy that ill-humor which may have found its way
among the officers. It is of the utmost importance, too, that the
soldier and the people should know nothing of this misunderstanding; or
if it has reached them, that means may be used to stop its progress and
prevent its effects."

To General Greene, Washington wrote: "I have not now time to take
notice of the several arguments which were made use of, for and against
the count's quitting the harbor of Newport and sailing for Boston.
Right or wrong, it will probably disappoint our sanguine expectations
of success and which I deem a still worse consequence, I fear it will
sow the seeds of dissension and distrust between us and our new allies,
unless the most prudent measures be taken to suppress the feuds and
jealousies that have already arisen. I depend much on your temper and
influence to conciliate that animosity which, subsists between the
American and French officers in our service. I beg you will take every
measure to keep the protest entered into by the general officers from
being made public. Congress, sensible of the ill consequences that will
flow from our differences being known to the world, have passed a
resolve to that purpose. Upon the whole, my dear sir, you can conceive
my meaning better than I can express it; and I therefore fully depend
on your exerting yourself to heal all private animosities between our
principal officers and the French, and to prevent all illiberal
expression and reflections that may fall from the army at large."

Washington also improved the first opportunity of recommencing his
correspondence with Count D'Estaing, in a letter to him, which, without
noticing the disagreements that had taken place, was well calculated to
soothe every unpleasant sensation which might have disturbed his mind.
In the course of a short correspondence, the irritation which
threatened serious mischiefs gave way to returning good understanding
and cordiality; although here and there popular ill-will manifested
itself in rather serious quarrels and disputes with the French sailors
and marines.

Meantime, in the storm which had separated the fleets of D'Estaing and
Howe when just about to engage, the British fleet had suffered
considerably, but had not sustained so much damage as the French. In a
short time Lord Howe was again ready for sea; and having learned that
D'Estaing had sailed for Boston, he left New York with the intention of
reaching that place before him, or of attacking him there, if he found
it could be done with advantage. But on entering the bay of Boston he
perceived the French fleet in Nantasket Roads, so judiciously stationed
and so well protected by batteries that there was no prospect of
attacking it with success. He therefore returned to New York, where,
finding that by fresh arrivals his fleet was decidedly superior to that
of the French, he availed himself of the permission which he had
received some time before and resigned the command to Admiral Gambier,
who was to continue in the command till the arrival of Admiral Byron,
who was daily expected from Halifax.

Sir Henry Clinton, finding that General Sullivan had effected his
retreat from Rhode Island, set out on his return to New York; but that
the expedition might not be wholly ineffectual, he meditated an attack
on New London, situated on a river which falls into the Sound. The
wind, however, being unfavorable to the enterprise, he gave the command
of the troops on board the transports to Maj.-Gen. Sir Charles Grey,
with orders to proceed in an expedition against Buzzard's Bay, and
continued his voyage to New York. [1]

In obedience to the orders which he had received, General Grey sailed
to Acushnet river where he landed on the 5th of September (1778), and
destroyed all the shipping in the river, amounting to more than seventy
sail. He burned a great part of the towns of Bedford and Fairhaven, the
one on the west and the other on the east bank, destroying a
considerable quantity of military and naval stores, provisions, and
merchandise. He landed at six in the evening, and so rapid were his
movements that the work of destruction was accomplished and the troops
re-embarked before noon the next day. He then proceeded to the island
called Martha's Vineyard, a resort of privateers, where he took or
burned several vessels, destroyed the salt works, compelled the
inhabitants to surrender their arms, and levied from them a
contribution of 1,000 sheep and 300 oxen.

Having mercilessly ravaged the seacoast, the hero of the Paoli massacre
returned, heavily laden with plunder, to New York.

The return of the British fleet and of the troops under Grey relieved
the Americans from the anxious apprehension of an attack on their
allies at Boston. Under that apprehension, Washington had broken up his
camp at White Plains, and proceeding northward taken a position at
Fredericksburg, thirty miles from West Point near the borders of
Connecticut. He detached Generals Gates and M'Dougall to Danbury, in
Connecticut, in order that they might be in readiness to move as
circumstances might require, and he sent General Putnam to West Point
to watch the North river and the important passes in the Highlands. But
the return of the fleet and troops to New York quieted those
apprehensions.

Meanwhile Washington received intelligence that an expedition was
preparing at New York, the object of which was not clearly apparent;
but soon after the return of the troops under Grey the British army
advanced in great force on both sides of the North river. The column on
the west bank, consisting of 5,000 men commanded by Cornwallis,
extended from the Hudson to the Hackensack. The division on the east
side consisting of about 3,000 men under Knyphausen, stretched from the
North river to the Bronx. The communication between them was kept up by
flat-bottomed boats, by means of which the two divisions could have
been readily united if the Americans had advanced against either of
them.

Washington sent out several detachments to observe the movements of
those columns. Colonel Baylor, who with his regiment of cavalry
consisting of upwards of a hundred men had been stationed near Paramus,
crossed the Hackensack on the morning of the 27th of September and
occupied Tappan or Herringtown, a small village near New Tappan, where
some militia were posted. Of these circumstances Cornwallis received
immediate notice and he formed a plan to surprise and cut off both the
cavalry and militia. The execution of the enterprise against Baylor was
entrusted to the unscrupulous General Grey, and Colonel Campbell with a
detachment from Knyphausen's division was to cross the river and attack
the militia at New Tappan. Colonel Campbell's part of the plan failed
by some delay in the passage of the river, during which a deserter
informed the militia of their danger and they saved themselves by
flight. But Grey completely surprised Baylor's troops and killed,
wounded, or took the greater part of them. Colonel Baylor was wounded
and made prisoner. The slaughter on that occasion which as at the
Paoli, was a literal massacre of surprised and defenseless men excited
much indignation and was the subject of loud complaints throughout the
United States.

Three days after the surprise of Baylor, Col. Richard Butler with a
detachment of infantry assisted by Maj. Henry Lee with part of his
cavalry, fell in with a party of 15 chasseurs and about 100 yagers
under Captain Donop, on whom they made such a rapid charge that without
the loss of a man, they killed ten of them on the spot and took about
twenty prisoners.

The movement of the British army up the North river already mentioned,
was made for the purpose of foraging and also to cover a meditated
attack on Little Egg Harbor, and having accomplished its object it
returned to New York. Little Egg Harbor, situated on the coast of
Jersey, was a rendezvous of privateers, and being so near the entrance
to New York ships bound to that port were much exposed to their
depredations. An expedition against it was therefore planned and the
conduct of the enterprise entrusted to Capt. Patrick Ferguson of the
Seventeenth regiment with about 300 men, assisted by Captain Collins of
the navy. He sailed from New York, but short as the passage was he was
detained several days by contrary winds and did not arrive at the place
of his destination till the evening of the 5th of October (1778). The
Americans had got notice of his design and had sent to sea such of
their privateers as were ready for sailing. They had also hauled the
largest of the remaining vessels, which were chiefly prizes, twenty
miles up the river to Chestnut Neck, and had carried their smaller
vessels still further into the country. Ferguson proceeded to Chestnut
Neck, burned the vessels there, destroyed the storehouses and public
works of every sort, and in returning committed many depredations on
private property.

Count Pulaski with his legionary corps composed of three companies of
foot and a troop of horse, officered principally by foreigners, had
been detached by Washington into Jersey to check these depredations. He
was ordered toward Little Egg Harbor and lay without due vigilance
eight or ten miles from the coast. One Juliet, a Frenchman, who had
deserted from the British service and obtained a commission in
Pulaski's corps redeserted, joined Captain Ferguson at Little Egg
Harbor after his return from Chestnut Neck and gave him exact
information of the strength and situation of Pulaski's troops.

Ferguson and Collins immediately resolved to surprise the Polish
nobleman, and for that purpose, on the 15th of October (1778), they
embarked 250 men in boats, rowed ten miles up the river before
daybreak, landed within a small distance of his infantry, left fifty
men to guard their boat, and with the remainder of their force suddenly
fell on the unsuspicious detachment, killed fifty of them among whom
were the Baron de Bosc and Lieutenant de la Borderie, and retreated
with scarcely any loss before they could be attacked by Pulaski's
cavalry.

This was another massacre similar to those of the infamous Grey. [2]
Only five prisoners were taken. The commander pretended to have
received information that Pulaski had ordered his men to give no
quarter, but this was false.

Admiral Byron reached New York and took command of the fleet about the
middle of September (1778). After repairing his shattered vessels he
sailed for the port of Boston. Soon after his arrival in the bay
fortune disconcerted all his plans. A furious storm drove him out to
sea and damaged his fleet so much that he found it necessary to put
into Newport to refit. This favorable moment was seized by the Count
D'Estaing who sailed on the 3d of November for the West Indies.

Thus terminated an expedition from which the most important advantages
had been anticipated. A variety of accidents had defeated plans
judiciously formed which had every probability of success in their
favor.

Lafayette, ambitious of fame on another theater, was now desirous of
returning to France. Expecting war on the continent of Europe he was
anxious to tender his services to his King and to his native country.

From motives of real friendship as well as of policy, Washington was
desirous of preserving the connection of this officer with the army and
of strengthening his attachment to America. He therefore expressed to
Congress his wish that Lafayette, instead of resigning his commission,
might have unlimited leave of absence to return when it should be
convenient to himself, and might carry with him every mark of the
confidence of the government. This policy was adopted by Congress in
its full extent. The partiality of America for Lafayette was well
placed. Never did a foreigner, whose primary attachments to his own
country remained undiminished, feel more solicitude for the welfare of
another than was unceasingly manifested by this young nobleman for the
United States.

The French alliance having effected a change in the position of affairs
on the ocean, Congress devoted a good deal of attention to naval
matters; several new vessels were built and others were purchased, and
the present year (1778) gave token of the spirit and ability of some of
our earlier naval officers in contending with a navy usually held to be
invincible. Early in the year Captain Biddle, in the Randolph, a
frigate of thirty-six guns, engaged his majesty's ship the Yarmouth, a
sixty-four, but after an action of twenty minutes the Randolph blew up
and Captain Biddle and crew perished with the exception of only four
men who were picked up a few days after on a piece of wreck. The
celebrated Paul Jones made his appearance on the English coast during
this year, and rendered his name a terror by the bold and daring
exploits which he performed. Captain Barry, off the coast of Maine,
behaved in a most gallant manner in an action with two English ships,
sustaining the contest for seven hours, and at last escaping with his
men on shore. Captain Talbot in October of this year (1778)
distinguished himself by a well-planned and successful attack upon a
British vessel off Rhode Island. The schooner Pigot, moored at the
mouth of Seconset river, effectually barred the passage, broke up the
local trade, and cut off the supplies of provisions and reinforcements
for that part of the colony. Talbot, earnestly desirous of relieving
the country of this annoyance, obtained the consent of General Sullivan
to make the attempt. With his usual alacrity he set about the affair
and was entirely successful. The Pigot was captured and carried off in
triumph by the gallant band under Talbot. In the succeeding November
Captain Talbot received a complimentary letter from the President of
Congress, together with a resolve of Congress, presenting him with the
commission of lieutenant-colonel in the army of the United States.

There being no prospect of an active winter campaign in the northern or
middle States and the climate admitting of military operations
elsewhere, a detachment from the British army consisting of 5,000 men
commanded by Major-General Grant, sailed early in November under a
strong convoy for the West India islands, and toward the end of the
same month another embarkation was made for the southern parts of the
continent. This second detachment was commanded by Lieutenant-Colonel
Campbell who was escorted by Com. Hyde Parker, and was destined to act
against the Southern States.

As a force sufficient for the defense of New York yet remained the
American army retired into winter quarters (Dec., 1778). The main body
was cantoned in Connecticut, on both sides the North river, about West
Point, and at Middlebrook. Light troops were stationed nearer the
lines, and the cavalry were drawn into the interior to recruit the
horses for the next campaign. In this distribution the protection of
the country, the security of important points, and a cheap and
convenient supply of provisions were consulted.

The troops again wintered in huts, but they were used to this mode of
passing that inclement season. Though far from being well clothed their
condition in that respect was so much improved by supplies from France
that they disregarded the inconveniences to which they were exposed.

Colonel Campbell, who sailed from the Hook about the last of November,
1778, escorted by a small squadron commanded by Com. Hyde Parker
reached the Isle of Tybee, near the Savannah, on the 23d of December,
and in a few days the fleet and the transports passed the bar and
anchored in the river.

The command of the Southern army, composed of the troops of South
Carolina and Georgia, had been committed to Major-General Robert Howe,
who in the course of the preceding summer had invaded East Florida. The
diseases incident to the climate made such ravages among his raw
soldiers that though he had scarcely seen an enemy he found himself
compelled to hasten out of the country with considerable loss. After
this disastrous enterprise his army, consisting of between six and
seven hundred Continental troops aided by a few hundred militia had
encamped in the neighborhood of the town of Savannah, situated on the
southern bank of the river bearing that name. The country about the
mouth of the river is one track of deep marsh intersected by creeks and
cuts of water impassable for troops at any time of the tide, except
over causeways extending through the sunken ground.

Without much opposition Lieutenant-Colonel Campbell effected a landing
on the 29th (December, 1778), about three miles below the town, upon
which Howe formed his line of battle. His left was secured by the
river, and along the whole extent of his front was a morass which
stretched to his right and was believed by him to be impassable for
such a distance as effectually to secure that wing.

After reconnoitering the country Colonel Campbell advanced on the great
road leading to Savannah, and about 3 in the afternoon appeared in
sight of the American army. While making dispositions to dislodge it he
accidentally fell in with a negro who informed him of a private path
leading through the swamp round the right of the American lines to
their rear. Determining to avail himself of this path he detached a
column under Sir James Baird which entered the morass unperceived by
Howe.

As soon as Sir James emerged from the swamp he attacked and dispersed a
body of Georgia militia which gave the first notice to the American
general of the danger which threatened his rear. At the same instant
the British troops in his front were put in motion and their artillery
began to play upon him. A retreat was immediately ordered and the
Continental troops were under the necessity of running across a plain
in front of the corps which had been led to the rear by Sir James Baird
who attacked their flanks with great impetuosity and considerable
effect. The few who escaped retreated up the Savannah, and crossing
that river at Zubly's Ferry took refuge in South Carolina.

The victory was complete and decisive in its consequences. About 100
Americans were either killed in the field or drowned in attempting to
escape through a deep swamp. Thirty-eight officers and 415 privates
were taken. Forty-eight pieces of cannon, twenty-three mortars, the
fort, with all its military stores, a large quantity of provisions
collected for the use of the army, and the capital of Georgia fell into
the hands of the conqueror. These advantages were obtained at the
expense of only seven killed and nineteen wounded.

No military force now remained in Georgia except the garrison of
Sunbury whose retreat to South Carolina was cut off. All the lower part
of that State was occupied by the British who adopted measures to
secure the conquest they had made. The inhabitants were treated with a
lenity as wise as it was humane. Their property was spared and their
persons protected. To make the best use of victory and of the
impression produced by the moderation of the victors a proclamation was
issued inviting the inhabitants to repair to the British standard and
offering protection to those who would return to their allegiance.

The effect of these measures was soon felt. The inhabitants flocked in
great numbers to the royal standard; military corps for the protection
of the country were formed, and posts were established for a
considerable distance up the river.

The northern frontier of Georgia being supposed to be settled into a
state of quiet Colonel Campbell turned his attention toward Sunbury and
was about to proceed against that place when he received intelligence
that it had surrendered to General Prevost.

Sir Henry Clinton had ordered that officer from East Florida to
cooperate with Colonel Campbell. On hearing that the troops from the
north were off the coast he entered the southern frontier of Georgia
(Jan. 9, 1779) and invested Sunbury, which, after a slight resistance
surrendered at discretion. Having placed a garrison in the fort he
proceeded to Savannah, took command of the army, and detached Colonel
Campbell with 800 regulars and a few Provincials to Augusta which fell
without resistance, and thus the whole State of Georgia was reduced.

1. Footnote: This officer was the same Grey who had surprised Wayne's
detachment near the Paoli Tavern, in Pennsylvania (Sept. 20, 1777), as
already related in the text. His merciless massacre of Wayne's men,
with the bayonet, will ever be remembered. A monument is erected on the
spot where the massacre took place, consecrated to the memory of the
sufferers.

2. Footnote: The British government rewarded Grey for his cruelty by
making him a peer. He was the father of Earl Grey, who became prime
minister of Great Britain. This reward to Colonel Grey was in strict
consistency with the spirit in which the whole war against the United
States was conducted. Fortunately, the cruel and brutal outrages of the
invaders reacted on themselves, and contributed greatly to the final
result.




CHAPTER XVI.


WASHINGTON PREPARES TO CHASTISE THE INDIANS. 1778.


While the events were passing which are recorded in the preceding
chapter a terrible war with the Indians was raging on the western
frontier of the United States. While the British were abundantly able
to supply the Indians with all those articles of use and luxury which
they had been accustomed to receive from the whites, Congress was not
in a condition to do anything of this sort to conciliate them or to
secure their neutrality in the existing war. Stimulated by the presents
as well as by the artful representations of British agents the Indians
had consequently become hostile. Early in 1778 there were many
indications of a general disposition among the savages to make war on
the United States, and the frontiers, from the Mohawk to the Ohio, were
threatened with the tomahawk and the scalping-knife. Every
representation from that country supported Washington's opinion that a
war with the Indians should never be defensive and that to obtain peace
it must be carried into their own country. Detroit was understood to be
in a defenseless condition, and Congress resolved on an expedition
against that place. This enterprise was entrusted to General M'Intosh,
who commanded at Pittsburgh, and was to be carried on with 3,000 men,
chiefly militia, to be drawn from Virginia. To facilitate its success
another force was to attack the Senecas, advancing from the east of the
Hudson.

Unfortunately the acts of the government did not correspond with the
vigor of its resolutions. The necessary preparations were not made and
the inhabitants of the frontiers remained without sufficient protection
until the plans against them were matured and the storm which had been
long gathering burst upon them with a fury which spread desolation
wherever it reached.

About 300 white men, commanded by the British Col. John Butler, and
about 500 Indians, led by the Indian Chief Brandt, who had assembled in
the north, marched late in June (1778) against the settlement of
Wyoming. These troops embarked on the Chemung or Tioga and descending
the Susquehanna, landed at a place called the Three Islands, whence
they marched about twenty miles, and crossing a wilderness and passing
through a gap in the mountain, entered the valley of Wyoming near its
northern boundary. At this place a small fort called Wintermoots had
been erected, which fell into their hands without resistance and was
burnt. The inhabitants who were capable of bearing arms assembled on
the first alarm at Forty Fort on the west side of the Susquehanna, four
miles below the camp of the invading army.

The regular troops, amounting to about sixty, were commanded by Col.
Zebulon Butler, [1] the militia by Colonel Dennison. Colonel Butler was
desirous of awaiting the arrival of a small reinforcement under Captain
Spalding who had been ordered by Washington to his aid on the first
intelligence of the danger which threatened the settlement, but the
militia generally, believing themselves sufficiently strong to repel
the invading force, urged an immediate battle so earnestly that Colonel
Butler yielded to their remonstrances, and on the 3d of July (1778)
marched from Forty Fort at the head of near 400 men to attack the
enemy.

The British and Indians were prepared to receive him. Their line was
formed a small distance in front of their camp on a plain thinly
covered with pine, shrub-oaks, and under-growth, and extended from the
river about a mile to a marsh at the foot of the mountain. The
Americans advanced in a single column without interruption until they
approached the enemy, when they received a fire which did not much
mischief. The line of battle was instantly formed and the action
commenced with spirit. The Americans rather gained ground on the right
where Colonel Butler commanded, until a large body of Indians passing
through the skirt of the marsh turned their left flank, which was
composed of militia, and poured a heavy and most destructive fire on
their rear. The word "retreat" was pronounced by some person and the
efforts of the officers to check it were unavailing. The fate of the
day was decided, and a flight commenced on the left which was soon
followed by the right. As soon as the line was broken the Indians,
throwing down their rifles and rushing upon them with the tomahawk,
completed the confusion. The attempt of Colonel Butler and of the
officers to restore order was unavailing and the whole line broke and
fled in confusion. The massacre was general and the cries for mercy
were answered by the tomahawk. Rather less than sixty men escaped, some
to Forty Fort, some by swimming the river, and some to the mountain. A
very few prisoners were made, only three of whom were preserved alive,
who were carried to Niagara.

Further resistance was impracticable and Colonel Dennison proposed
terms of capitulation which were granted to the inhabitants. It being
understood that no quarter would be allowed to the Continental troops
Colonel Butler with his few surviving soldiers fled from the valley.

The inhabitants generally abandoned the country and, in great distress,
wandered into the settlements on the Lehigh and the Delaware. The
Indians, according to their usual practice, destroyed the houses and
improvements by fire and plundered the country. After laying waste the
whole settlement they withdrew from it before the arrival of the
Continental troops, who were ordered to meet them. On the 11th of
November (1778) 500 Indians and Loyalists, with a small detachment of
regular troops, under the command of the notorious John Butler, made an
irruption into the settlement at Cherry Valley, in the State of New
York, surprised and killed Colonel Allen, commander of the American
force at that place, and ten of his soldiers. They attacked a fort
erected there, but were compelled to retreat. Next day they left the
place, after having murdered and scalped thirty-two of the inhabitants,
chiefly women and children.

On the first intelligence of the destruction of Wyoming the regiments
of Hartley and Butler with the remnant of Morgan's corps, commanded by
Major Posey, were detached to the protection of that distressed
country. They were engaged in several sharp skirmishes, made separate
incursions into the Indian settlements, broke up their nearest
villages, destroyed their corn, and, by compelling them to retire to a
greater distance, gave some relief to the inhabitants.

While the frontiers of New York and Pennsylvania were thus suffering
the calamities incident to savage warfare, a fate equally severe was
preparing for Virginia. The western militia of that State had made some
successful incursions into the country northwest of the Ohio and had
taken some British posts on the Mississippi. These were erected into
the county of Illinois, and a regiment of infantry with a troop of
cavalry was raised for its protection. The command of these troops was
given to Col. George Rogers Clarke, a gentleman who courage, hardihood,
and capacity for Indian warfare had given repeated success to his
enterprises against the savages.

This corps was divided into several detachments, the strongest of which
remained with Colonel Clarke at Kaskaskia. Colonel Hamilton, the
Governor of Detroit, was at Vincennes with about 600 men, principally
Indians, preparing an expedition, first against Kaskaskia and then up
the Ohio to Pittsburgh, after which he purposed to desolate the
frontiers of Virginia. Clarke anticipated and defeated his design by
one of those bold and decisive measures, which, whether formed on a
great or a small scale, mark the military and enterprising genius of
the man who plans and executes them.

He was too far removed from the inhabited country to hope for support,
and was too weak to maintain Kaskaskia and the Illinois against the
combined force of regulars and Indians by which he was to be attacked
as soon as the season for action should arrive. While employed in
preparing for his defense he received unquestionable information that
Hamilton had detached his Indians on an expedition against the
frontiers, reserving at the post he occupied only about eighty regulars
with three pieces of cannon and some swivels. Clarke instantly resolved
to seize this favorable moment. After detaching a small galley up the
Wabash with orders to take her station a few miles below Vincennes and
to permit nothing to pass her, he marched in the depth of winter with
130 men, the whole force he could collect, across the country from
Kaskaskia to Vincennes. This march through the woods and over high
waters required sixteen days, five of which were employed in crossing
the drowned lands of the Wabash. The troops were under the necessity of
wading five miles in water frequently up to their breasts. After
subduing these difficulties this small party appeared before the town,
which was completely surprised and readily consented to change its
master.

Hamilton, after defending the fort a short time, surrendered himself
and his garrison prisoners of war. With a few of his immediate agents
and counselors, who had been instrumental in the savage barbarities he
had encouraged, he was, by order of the Executive of Virginia, put in
irons and confined in a jail.

This expedition was important in its consequences. It disconcerted a
plan which threatened destruction to the whole country west of the
Allegheny Mountains, detached from the British interest many of those
numerous tribes of Indians south of the waters immediately
communicating with the Great Lakes, and had most probably considerable
influence in fixing the boundary of the United States.

These Indian hostilities on the western border were a subject of
extreme solicitude to Washington, ever alive as he was to the cry of
distress and ever anxious to preserve peace and security to the rural
population of the country. Experience and observation had long since
taught him that the only effectual protection to the inhabitants of the
frontier settlements consisted in carrying the war with severity into
the enemy's own country. Hence we find that from the moment these
atrocities of the Indians commenced in the western country he was
engaged in planning that expedition which, in the next campaign, under
the direction of General Sullivan, carried desolation to their own
homes and taught them a lesson which they could not soon forget. In the
following extract of a letter to Gov. George Clinton of New York, dated
March 4, 1779, it will be perceived that he speaks of his plan as
already matured:

"The President of Congress has transmitted to me your Excellency's
letter to the delegates of New York, representing the calamitous
situation of the northwestern frontier of that State, accompanied by a
similar application from the Pennsylvania Assembly, and a resolve of
the 25th, directing me to take the most effectual measures for the
protection of the inhabitants and chastisement of the Indians. The
resolve has been in some measure anticipated by my previous
dispositions for carrying on offensive operations against the hostile
tribes of savages. It has always been my intention early to communicate
this matter to your Excellency in confidence, and I take occasion, from
the letter above mentioned, to inform you that preparations have some
time since been making, and they will be conducted to the point of
execution at a proper season, if no unexpected accident prevents, and
the situation of affairs on the maritime frontier justifies the
undertaking.

"The greatest secrecy is necessary to the success of such an
enterprise, for the following obvious reasons: That, immediately upon
the discovery of our design, the savages would either put themselves in
condition to make head against us, by a reunion of all their force and
that of their allies, strengthened besides by succors from Canada; or
elude the expedition altogether, which might be done at the expense of
a temporary evacuation of forests which we could not possess, and the
destruction of a few settlements which they might speedily re-
establish."

Washington concludes this letter by calling upon Governor Clinton for
an account of the force which New York can furnish for the contemplated
expedition and describing the kind of men most desirable for this
peculiar service--"active rangers, who are at the same time expert
marksmen, and accustomed to the irregular kind of wood-fighting
practiced by the Indians." He concludes by expressing a desire to have
the advantage of any sentiments or advice the Governor might be pleased
to communicate relative to the expedition. This is but one among many
instances which might be cited of the vigilance and unceasing activity
of Washington in everything connected with the national defense.

In addition to this Indian war Washington at this time (1778) had
another cause of deep anxiety continually upon his mind, in the
comparatively weak and inefficient character of the legislative body to
whom he must necessarily look for support and sanction in all measures
for the defense of the country. The Congress of 1774--that Congress
whose proceedings and State papers had elicited the admiration of the
illustrious Earl of Chatham--had comprised the ablest and most
influential men in the country. But most of these men had withdrawn
from Congress or had accepted high offices under their own State
governments, and their places had either not been filled at all or had
been filled by incompetent men. For the year 1778 the average number of
members had been between twenty-five and thirty. Some States were not
represented and others had not sent delegates enough to entitle them to
a vote. But small as the number of delegates in Congress was they were
sufficiently numerous to entertain the fiercest feuds among themselves,
and seriously to embarrass the public service by permitting party
considerations to interfere with the measures most essential to the
safety and efficiency of the army and the preservation of order in the
country.

Washington was acutely sensible to this disastrous state of things.
Full of disinterested zeal for the public service he could hardly
comprehend the apathy prevailing in the different States, which
occasioned their omitting to fill up their "quotas" of representatives
in Congress, and he was embarrassed and distressed with the weak and
inefficient manner in which the military and civil affairs, under the
direction of Congress, were conducted. In a letter to Benjamin Harrison
of Virginia, a member of the Congress of 1774, he expresses frankly his
views on this unpleasant topic as follows:

"It appears as clear to me as ever the sun did in its meridian
brightness, that America never stood in more eminent need of the wise,
patriotic, and spirited exertions of her sons than at this period, and
if it is not a sufficient cause for general lamentation my
misconception of the matter impresses it too strongly upon me that the
States, separately, are too much engaged in their local concerns and
have too many of their ablest men withdrawn from the general council
for the good of the commonweal. In a word I think our political system
may be compared to the mechanism of a clock and that we should derive a
lesson from it, for it answers no good purpose to keep the smaller
wheels in order if the greater one, which is the support and prime
mover of the whole, is neglected. How far the latter is the case it
does not become me to pronounce, but as there can be no harm in a pious
wish for the good of one's country, I shall offer it as mine, that each
would not only choose, but absolutely compel their ablest men to attend
Congress, and that they would instruct them to go into a thorough
investigation of the causes that have produced so many disagreeable
effects in the army and country, in a word, that public abuses should
be corrected. Without this it does not in my judgment require the
spirit of divination to foretell the consequences of the present
administration nor to how little purpose the States individually are
framing constitutions, providing laws, and filling offices with the
abilities of their ablest men. These, if the great whole is mismanaged,
must sink in the general wreck, which will carry with it the remorse of
thinking that we are lost by our own folly and negligence or by the
desire, perhaps, of living in ease and tranquility during the
accomplishment of so great a revolution, in the effecting of which the
greatest abilities and the most honest men our American world affords
ought to be employed.

"It is much to be feared, my dear sir, that the States in their
separate capacities have very inadequate ideas of the present danger.
Many persons removed far distant from the scene of action and seeing
and hearing such publications only as flatter their wishes, conceive
that the contest is at an end and that to regulate the government and
police of their own State is all that remains to be done, but it is
devoutly to be wished that a sad reverse of this may not fall upon them
like a thunderclap that is little expected. I do not mean to designate
particular States. I wish to cast no reflections upon any one. The
public believe (and if they do believe it, the fact might almost as
well be so) that the States at this time are badly represented and that
the great and important concerns of the nation are horribly conducted
for want either of abilities or application in the members, or through
the discord and party views of some individuals. That they should be so
is to be lamented more at this time than formerly, as we are far
advanced in the dispute and, in the opinion of many, drawing to a happy
period; we have the eyes of Europe upon us and I am persuaded many
political spies to watch, who discover our situation and give
information of our weaknesses and wants."

We have already seen that Congress, actuated by their wishes rather
than governed by a temperate calculation of the means in their
possession, had, in the preceding winter, planned a second invasion of
Canada to be conducted by Lafayette and that, as the generals only were
got in readiness for this expedition, it was necessarily laid aside.
The design, however, seems to have been suspended, not abandoned. The
alliance with France revived the latent wish to annex that extensive
territory to the United States. That favorite subject was resumed, and
toward autumn a plan was completely digested for a combined attack to
be made by the allies on all the British dominions on the continent and
on the adjacent islands of Cape Breton and Newfoundland. This plan was
matured about the time Lafayette obtained leave to return to his own
country and was ordered to be transmitted by him to Doctor Franklin,
the minister of the United States at the court of Versailles with
instructions to induce, if possible, the French cabinet to accede to
it. Some communications respecting this subject were also made to
Lafayette, on whose influence in securing its adoption by his own
government much reliance was placed, and in October 1778, it was for
the first time transmitted to Washington, with a request that he would
enclose it by Lafayette, with his observations on it, to Doctor
Franklin.

This very extensive plan of military operations for the ensuing
campaign, prepared entirely in the cabinet without consulting, so far
as is known, a single military man, consisted of many parts.

Two detachments, amounting each to 1,600 men, were to march from
Pittsburgh and Wyoming against Detroit and Niagara. A third body of
troops which was to be stationed on the Mohawk during the winter and to
be powerfully reinforced in the spring, was to seize Oswego and to
secure the navigation of Lake Ontario with vessels to be constructed of
materials to be procured in the winter. A fourth corps was to penetrate
into Canada by the St. Francis and to reduce Montreal and the posts on
Lake Champlain, while a fifth should guard against troops from Quebec.

Thus far America could proceed unaided by her ally. But Upper Canada
being reduced another campaign would still be necessary for the
reduction of Quebec. This circumstance would require that the army
should pass the winter in Canada, and in the meantime the garrison of
Quebec might be largely reinforced. It was therefore essential to the
complete success of the enterprise that France should be induced to
take a part in it.

The conquest of Quebec and of Halifax was supposed to be an object of
so much importance to France as well as to the United States that her
aid might be confidently expected.

It was proposed to request the King of France to furnish four or five
thousand troops, to sail from Brest the beginning of May under convoy
of four ships of the line and four frigates, the troops to be clad as
if for service in the West Indies and thick clothes to be sent after
them in August. A large American detachment was to act with this French
army and it was supposed that Quebec and Halifax might be reduced by
the beginning or middle of October. The army might then either proceed
immediately against New Foundland or remain in garrison until the
spring when the conquest of that place might be accomplished.

It had been supposed probable that England would abandon the further
prosecution of the war on the continent of North America, in which case
the government would have a respectable force at its disposal, the
advantageous employment of which had engaged in part the attention of
Washington. He had contemplated an expedition against the British posts
in Upper Canada as a measure which might be eventually eligible and
which might employ the arms of the United States to advantage if their
troops might safely be withdrawn from the sea-board. He had, however,
considered every object of this sort as contingent. Having estimated
the difficulties to be encountered in such an enterprise he had found
them so considerable as to hesitate on the extent which might safely be
given to the expedition admitting the United States to be evacuated by
the British armies.

In this state of mind Washington received the magnificent plan already
prepared by Congress. He was forcibly struck with the impracticability
of executing that part of it which, was to be undertaken by the United
States should the British armies continue in the country and with the
serious mischief which would result to the common cause as well as from
diverting so considerable a part of the French force from other objects
to one which was, in his opinion, so unpromising as from the ill
impression which would be made on the court and nation by the total
failure of the American government to execute its part of a plan
originating with itself--a failure would most probably sacrifice the
troops and ships employed by France.

On comparing the naval force of England with that of France in
different parts of the world, the former appeared to Washington to
maintain a decided superiority and consequently to possess the power of
shutting up the ships of the latter which might be trusted into the St.
Lawrence. To suppose that the British government would not avail itself
of this superiority on such an occasion would be to impute to it a
blind infatuation or ignorance of the plans of its adversary, which
could not be safely assumed in calculations of such serious import.

A plan, too, consisting of so many parts to be prosecuted both from
Europe and America by land and by water--which, to be successful,
required such an harmonious cooperation of the whole, such a perfect
coincidence of events--appeared to him to be exposed to too many
accidents to risk upon it interests of such high value.

In a long and serious letter to Congress he apologized for not obeying
their orders to deliver the plan with his observations upon it to
Lafayette, and entering into a full investigation of all its parts
demonstrated the mischiefs and the dangers with which it was replete.
This letter was referred to a committee whose report admits the force
of the reasons urged by Washington against the expedition and their own
conviction that nothing important could be attempted unless the British
armies should be withdrawn from the United States and that even in that
event the present plan was far too complex.

Men, however, recede slowly and reluctantly from favorite and
flattering projects on which they have long meditated, and the
committee in their report proceeded to state the opinion that the posts
held by the British in the United States would probably be evacuated
before the active part of the ensuing campaign, and that, therefore,
eventual measures for the expedition ought to be taken.

This report concludes with recommending, "that the general should be
directed to write to the Marquis de Lafayette on that subject, and also
write to the minister of these States at the court of Versailles very
fully, to the end that eventual measures may be taken in case an
armament should be sent from France to Quebec for co-operating
therewith to the utmost degree which the finances and resources of
these States will admit."

This report also was approved by Congress and transmitted to Washington
who felt himself greatly embarrassed by it. While his objections to the
project retained all their force he found himself required to open a
correspondence for the purposes of soliciting the concurrence of France
in an expedition he disapproved, and of promising a cooperation he
believed to be impracticable. In reply to this communication he said:
"The earnest desire I have strictly to comply in every instance with
the views and instructions of Congress cannot but make me feel the
greatest uneasiness when I find myself in circumstances of hesitation
or doubt with respect to their directions. But the perfect confidence I
have in the justice and candor of that honorable body emboldens me to
communicate without reserve the difficulties which occur in the
execution of their present order, and the indulgence I have experienced
on every former occasion induces me to imagine that the liberty I now
take will not meet with disapprobation."

After reviewing the report of the committee and stating his objections
to the plan and the difficulties he felt in performing the duty
assigned to him, he added: "But if Congress still think it necessary
for me to proceed in the business I must request their more definite
and explicit instructions and that they will permit me, previous to
transmitting the intended dispatches, to submit them to their
determination. I could wish to lay before Congress more minutely the
state of the army, the condition of our supplies and the requisites
necessary for carrying into execution an undertaking that may involve
the most serious events. If Congress think this can be done more
satisfactorily in a personal conference I hope to have the army in such
a situation before I can receive their answer as to afford me an
opportunity of giving my attendance."

Congress acceded to his request for a personal interview, and on his
arrival in Philadelphia a committee was appointed to confer with him as
well on this particular subject as on the general state of the army and
of the country.

The result of these conferences was that the expedition against Canada
was entirely, though reluctantly, given up, and every arrangement
recommended by Washington received that attention which was due to his
judgment and experience and which his opinions were entitled to
receive.

If anything were necessary to be added to this ridiculous scheme for
the conquest of Canada in order to prove the inefficiency and folly of
the Congress of 1778 we have it in the fact that France was averse to
adding that province to the United States and did not desire to acquire
it for herself. She only sought the independence of this country and
its permanent alliance.

Mr. De Sevelinges in his introduction to Botta's History recites the
private instructions to Mr. Gerard on his mission to the United States.
One article was, "to avoid entering into any formal engagement relative
to Canada and other English possessions which Congress proposed to
conquer." Mr. De Sevelinges adds, that "the policy of the cabinet of
Versailles viewed the possession of those countries, especially of
Canada by England as a principle of useful inquietude and vigilance to
the Americans. The neighborhood of a formidable enemy must make them
feel more sensibly the price which they ought to attach to the
friendship and support of the King of France."

 [C.] REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE APPOINTED TO CONFER WITH WASHINGTON ON
THE SECOND SCHEME FOR THE CONQUEST OF CANADA, AND ON THE GENERAL STATE
OF THE ARMY AND THE COUNTRY.

"January I, 1779. The committee appointed to confer with the commander-
in-chief on the operations of the next campaign, report that the plan
proposed by Congress for the emancipation of Canada, in cooperation
with an army from France, was the principal subject of the said
conference. That, impressed with a strong sense of the injury and
disgrace which must attend an infraction of the proposed stipulations,
on the part of these States, your committee have taken a general view
of our finances, of the circumstances of our army, of the magazines of
clothes, artillery, arms and ammunition, and of the provisions in
store, and which can be collected in season.

"Your committee have also attentively considered the intelligence and
observations communicated to them by the commander-in-chief, respecting
the number of troops and strongholds of the enemy in Canada; their
naval force, and entire command of the water communication with that
country; the difficulties, while they possess such signal advantages,
of penetrating it with an army by land; the obstacles which are to be
surmounted in acquiring a naval superiority; the hostile temper of many
of the surrounding Indian tribes towards these States; and above all,
the uncertainty whether the enemy will not persevere in their system of
harassing and distressing our sea-coast and frontiers by a predatory
war.

"That on a most mature deliberation, your committee cannot find room for
a well grounded presumption that these States will be able to perform
their part of the proposed stipulations. That in a measure of such
moment, calculated to call forth, and direct to a single object, a
considerable portion of the force of our ally which may otherwise be
essentially employed, nothing else than the highest probability of
success could justify Congress in making the proposition.

"Your committee are therefore of opinion, that the negotiation in
question, however desirable and interesting, should be deferred until
circumstances render the cooperation of these States more certain,
practicable, and effectual.

"That the minister plenipotentiary of these States at the court of
Versailles, the minister of France in Pennsylvania, and the minister of
France, be respectively informed that the operations of the next
campaign must depend on such a variety of contingencies to arise, as
well from our own internal circumstances and resources as the progress
and movements of our enemy, that time alone can mature and point out
the plan which ought to be pursued. That Congress, therefore, cannot,
with a degree of confidence answerable to the magnitude of the object,
decide on the practicability of their cooperating the next campaign in
an enterprise for the emancipation of Canada; that every preparation in
our power will nevertheless be made for acting with vigor against the
common enemy, and every favorable incident embraced with alacrity to
facilitate and hasten the freedom and independence of Canada, and her
union with these States--events which Congress, from motives of policy
with respect to the United States, as well as of affection to their
Canadian brethren, have greatly at heart."

This report is evidently inspired by Washington, from beginning to end.

1. Footnote: This officer was not of the same family with the Tory
Butler.




CHAPTER XVII.


WASHINGTON'S OPERATIONS IN THE NORTHERN STATES. 1779.


We have seen that Washington had gone from his winter quarters near
Middlebrook in the Jerseys to hold a conference with Congress on the
subject of the invasion of Canada. When this matter had been disposed
of there still remained many subjects demanding the joint attention of
the supreme Legislature and the Commander-in-Chief, and accordingly he
spent a considerable part of the winter of 1778-9 at Philadelphia
consulting with Congress on measures for the general defense and
welfare of the country. Washington felt extreme anxiety at the
inadequate means at his disposal for conducting the campaign of 1779.
The state of Congress itself, as we have already shown, was
sufficiently embarrassing to him, but there were other causes of
uneasiness in the general aspect of affairs. The French alliance was
considered by the people as rendering the cause of independence
perfectly safe; with little or no exertion on our part England was
supposed to be already conquered in America, and, moreover, she was
threatened with a Spanish war. Hence the States were remiss in
furnishing their quotas of men and money. The currency, consisting of
Continental bills, was so much depreciated that a silver dollar was
worth forty dollars of the paper money. The effect of this last
misfortune was soon apparent in the conduct of the officers of the
Jersey brigade.

In pursuance of Washington's plan of chastising the Indians, to which
we referred in the last chapter, it was resolved to lead a force into
those villages of the Six Nations which were hostile to the United
States and destroy their settlements.

As the army destined for this expedition was about to move alarming
symptoms of discontent appeared in a part of it. The Jersey brigade,
which had been stationed during the winter at Elizabethtown, was
ordered early in May (1779) to march by regiments. This order was
answered by a letter from General Maxwell stating that the officers of
the First regiment had delivered a remonstrance to their colonel,
addressed to the Legislature of the State, declaring that unless their
complaints on the subjects of pay and support should obtain the
immediate attention of that body, they were, at the expiration of three
days, to be considered as having resigned, and requesting the
Legislature, in that event, to appoint other officers to succeed them.
They declared, however, their readiness to make every preparation for
obeying the orders which had been given, and to continue their
attention to the regiment until a reasonable time should elapse for the
appointment of their successors. "This," added the letter of General
Maxwell, "is a step they are extremely unwilling to take, but it is
such as I make no doubt they will all take; nothing but
necessity--their not being able to support themselves in time to come
and being loaded with debts contracted in time past--could have
induced them to resign at so critical a juncture."

The intelligence conveyed in this letter made a serious impression on
Washington. He was strongly attached to the army and to its interests,
had witnessed its virtues and its sufferings, and lamented sincerely
its present distresses. The justice of the complaints made by the
officers could no more be denied than the measure they had adopted
could be approved. Relying on their patriotism and on his own
influence, he immediately wrote a letter to General Maxwell to be laid
before them in which, mingling the sensibility of a friend with the
authority of a general, he addressed to their understanding and to
their love of country, observations calculated to invite their whole
attention to the consequences which must result from the step they were
about to take.

"The patience and perseverance of the army," proceeds the letter, "have
been, under every disadvantage, such as to do them the highest honor
both at home and abroad, and have inspired me with an unlimited
confidence of their virtue, which has consoled me amidst every
perplexity and reverse of fortune to which our affairs, in a struggle
of this nature, were necessarily exposed. Now that we have made so
great a progress to the attainment of the end we have in view, so that
we cannot fail without a most shameful desertion of our own interests,
anything like a change of conduct would imply a very unhappy change of
principles, and a forgetfulness as well of what we owe to ourselves as
to our country. Did I suppose it possible this could be the case, even
in a single regiment of the army, I should be mortified and chagrined
beyond expression. I should feel it as a wound given to my own honor,
which I consider as embarked with that of the army at large. But this I
believe to be impossible. Any corps that was about to set an example of
the kind would weigh well the consequences, and no officer of common
discernment and sensibility would hazard them. If they should stand
alone in it, independent of other consequences, what would be their
feelings on reflecting that they had held themselves out to the world
in a point of light inferior to the rest of the army? Or if their
example should be followed, and become general, how could they console
themselves for having been the foremost in bringing ruin and disgrace
upon their country? They would remember that the army would share a
double portion of the general infamy and distress, and that the
character of an American officer would become as infamous as it is now
glorious.

"I confess the appearances in the present instance are disagreeable,
but I am convinced they seem to mean more than they really do. The
Jersey officers have not been outdone by any others in the qualities
either of citizens or soldiers; and I am confident no part of them
would seriously intend anything that would be a stain on their former
reputation. The gentlemen cannot be in earnest; they have only reasoned
wrong about the means of obtaining a good end, and, on consideration, I
hope and flatter myself they will renounce what must appear to be
improper. At the opening of a campaign, when under marching orders for
an important service, their own honor, duty to the public and to
themselves, and a regard to military propriety, will not suffer them to
persist in a measure which would be a violation of them all. It will
even wound their delicacy, coolly to reflect that they have hazarded a
step which has an air of dictating terms to their country, by taking
advantage of the necessity of the moment."

This letter did not completely produce the desired effect. The officers
did not recede from their claims. In an address to Washington, they
expressed their unhappiness that any act of theirs should give him
pain, but proceeded to justify the step they had taken. Repeated
memorials had been presented to their Legislature which had been
received with promises of attention, but had been regularly neglected.
"At length," said they, "we have lost all confidence in our
Legislature. Reason and experience forbid that we should have any. Few
of us have private fortunes; many have families, who already are
suffering everything that can be received from an ungrateful country.
Are we then to suffer all the inconveniences, fatigues, and dangers of
a military life, while our wives and our children are perishing for
want of common necessaries at home--and that without the most distant
prospect of reward, for our pay is now only nominal? We are sensible
that your Excellency cannot wish nor desire this from us. We are sorry
that you should imagine we meant to disobey orders. It was and still is
our determination to march with our regiment and to do the duty of
officers until the Legislature should have a reasonable time to appoint
others, but no longer.

"We beg leave to assure your Excellency that we have the highest sense
of your ability and virtues; that executing your orders has ever given
us pleasure; that we love the service, and we love our country--but
when that country gets so lost to virtue and justice as to forget to
support its servants, it then becomes their duty to retire from its
service."

This letter was peculiarly embarrassing to Washington. To adopt a stern
course of proceeding might hazard the loss of the Jersey line, an event
not less injurious to the service than painful to himself. To take up
the subject without doing too much for the circumstances of the army
would be doing too little for the occasion. He therefore declined
taking any other notice of the letter than to declare through General
Maxwell, that while they continued to do their duty in conformity with
the determination they had expressed he should only regret the part
they had taken and should hope they would perceive its impropriety.

The Legislature of New Jersey, alarmed at the decisive step taken by
the officers, was at length induced to pay some attention to their
situation--they consenting on their part to withdraw their
remonstrance. In the meantime they continued to perform their duty and
their march was not delayed by this unpleasant altercation.

In communicating this transaction to Congress Washington took occasion
to remind that body of his having frequently urged the absolute
necessity of some general and adequate provision for the officers of
the army. "I shall only observe," continued the letter, "that the
distresses in some corps are so great, either where they were not until
lately attached to any particular State, or where the State has been
less provident, that the officers have solicited even to be supplied
with the clothing destined for the common soldiery, coarse and
unsuitable as it was. I had not power to comply with the request.

"The patience of men animated by a sense of duty and honor will support
them to a certain point, beyond which it will not go. I doubt not
Congress will be sensible of the danger of an extreme in this respect,
and will pardon my anxiety to obviate it."

Before the troops destined for the grand expedition were put in motion
an enterprise of less extent was undertaken which was completely
successful. A plan for surprising the towns of the Onondagas, one of
the nearest of the hostile tribes, having been formed by General
Schuyler and approved by Washington, Colonel Van Schaick assisted by
Lieutenant-Colonel Willet and Major Cochran marched from Fort Schuyler
on the morning of the 19th of April at the head of between five and six
hundred men and on the third day reached the point of destination. The
whole settlement was destroyed after which the detachment returned to
Fort Schuyler without the loss of a single man. For this handsome
display of talents as a partisan, the thanks of Congress were voted to
Colonel Van Schaick and the officers and soldiers under his command.

The cruelties exercised by the Indians in the course of the preceding
year had given a great degree of importance to the expedition now
meditated against them, and the relative military strength and
situation of the two parties rendered it improbable that any other
offensive operations could be carried on by the Americans in the course
of the present campaign. The army under the command of Sir Henry
Clinton, exclusive of the troops in the southern department, was
computed at between sixteen and seventeen thousand men. The American
army, the largest division of which lay at Middlebrook under the
immediate command of Washington, was rather inferior to that of the
British in real strength. The grand total, except those in the southern
and western country, including officers of every description amounted
to about 16,000. Three thousand of these were in New England under the
command of General Gates, and the remaining 13,000 were cantoned on
both sides of the North river.

After the destruction of Forts Clinton and Montgomery in 1777, it had
been determined to construct the fortifications intended for the future
defense of the North river at West Point, a position which being more
completely embosomed in the hills was deemed more defensible. The works
had been prosecuted with unremitting industry but were far from being
completed.

King's Ferry, some miles below West Point, where the great road, the
most convenient communication between the middle and eastern States,
crossed the North river, is completely commanded by two opposite points
of land. That on the west side, a rough and elevated piece of ground,
is denominated Stony Point; and the other, on the east side, a flat
neck of land projecting far into the water, is called Verplanck's
Point. The command of King's Ferry was an object worth the attention of
either army, and Washington had comprehended the points which protect
it within his plan of defense for the Highlands. A small but strong
work called Fort Fayette was completed at Verplanck's and was
garrisoned by a company commanded by Captain Armstrong. The works on
Stony Point were unfinished. As the season for active operations
approached Sir Henry Clinton formed a plan for opening the campaign
with a brilliant _coup de main_ up the North river and toward the
latter end of May made preparations for the enterprise.

These preparations were immediately communicated to Washington who was
confident that Clinton meditated an attack on the forts in the
Highlands or designed to take a position between those forts and
Middlebrook, in order to interrupt the communication between the
different parts of the American army, to prevent their reunion and to
beat them in detail. Measures were instantly taken to counteract either
of these designs. The intelligence from New York was communicated to
Generals Putnam and M'Dougal, who were ordered to hold themselves in
readiness to march, and on the 29th of May (1779) the army moved by
divisions from Middlebrook toward the Highlands. On the 30th the
British army commanded by Clinton in person and convoyed by Sir George
Collier proceeded up the river, and General Vaughan at the head of the
largest division, landed next morning about eight miles below
Verplanck's. The other division under the particular command of General
Patterson, but accompanied by Clinton, advancing further up, landed on
the west side within three miles of Stony Point.

That place being immediately abandoned, General Patterson took
possession of it on the same afternoon. He dragged some heavy cannon
and mortars to the summit of the hill in the course of the night (June
1, 1779), and at five next morning opened a battery on Fort Fayette at
the distance of about 1,000 yards. During the following night two
galleys passed the fort and anchoring above it prevented the escape of
the garrison by water while General Vaughan invested it closely by
land. No means of defending the fort or of saving themselves remaining
the garrisons became prisoners of war. Immediate directions were given
for completing the works at both posts and for putting Stony Point in
particular in a strong state of defense.

Washington determined to check any further advance of the enemy, and
before Clinton was in a situation to proceed against West Point,
General M'Dougal was so strengthened and the American army took such a
position on the strong grounds about the Hudson that the enterprise
became too hazardous to be further prosecuted.

After completing the fortifications on both sides of the river at
King's Ferry, Clinton placed a strong garrison in each fort and
proceeded down the river to Philipsburg. The relative situation of the
hostile armies presenting insuperable obstacles to any grand operation
they could be employed offensively only on detached expeditions.
Connecticut, from its contiguity to New York and its extent of sea
coast, was peculiarly exposed to invasion. The numerous small cruisers
which plied in the sound, to the great annoyance of British commerce,
and the large supplies of provisions drawn from the adjacent country
for the use of the Continental army, furnished great inducements to
Clinton to direct his enterprises particularly against that State. He
also hoped to draw Washington from his impregnable position on the
North river into the low country and thus obtain an opportunity of
striking at some part of his army or of seizing the posts which were
the great object of the campaign. With these views he planned an
expedition against Connecticut, the command of which was given to
Governor Tryon, who reached New Haven bay on the 5th of July (1779)
with about 2,600 men.

Washington was at the time on the lines examining in person the
condition of the works on Stony and Verplanck's Points, in consequence
of which the intelligence which was transmitted to headquarters that
the fleet had sailed could not be immediately communicated to the
Governor of Connecticut, and the first intimation which that State
received of its danger was given by the appearance of the enemy. The
militia assembled in considerable numbers with alacrity, but the
British effected a landing and took possession of the town. After
destroying the military and naval stores found in the place, they re-
embarked and proceeded westward to Fairfield which was reduced to
ashes. The spirited resistance made by the militia at this place is
attested by the apology made by General Tryon for the wanton
destruction of private property which disgraced his conduct. "The
village was burnt," he says, "to resent the fire of the rebels from
their houses and to mask our retreat."

From Fairfield the fleet crossed the sound to Huntington bay where it
remained until the 9th (July, 1779), when it recrossed that water. The
troops were landed in the night on a peninsula on the east side of the
Bay of Norwalk. About the same time a much larger detachment from the
British army directed its course towards Horse Neck and made
demonstrations of a design to penetrate into the country in that
direction.

On the first intelligence that Connecticut was invaded, General
Parsons, a native of that State, had been directed by Washington to
hasten to the scene of action. Placing himself at the head of about 150
Continental troops who were supported by considerable bodies of
militia, he attacked the British on the morning of the twelfth as soon
as they were in motion and kept up an irregular distant fire throughout
the day. But, being too weak to prevent the destruction of any
particular town on the coast, Norwalk was reduced to ashes, after which
the British re-embarked and returned to Huntington bay there to await
for reinforcements. At this place, however, Tryon received orders to
return to Whitestone where in a conference between Clinton and Sir
George Collier it was determined to proceed against New London with an
increased force.

On the invasion of Connecticut, Washington was prompt in his exertions
to send Continental troops from the nearest encampments to its aid, but
before they could afford any real service Clinton found it necessary to
recall Tryon to the Hudson.

Washington had planned an enterprise against the posts at King's Ferry,
comprehending a double attack to be made at the same time on both. But
the difficulty of a perfect cooperation of detachments, incapable of
communicating with each other, determined him to postpone the attack on
Verplanck's and to make that part of the plan dependent on the success
of the first. His whole attention, therefore, was turned to Stony Point
and the troops destined for this critical service proceeded on it as
against a single object.

The execution of the plan was entrusted by Washington to General Wayne
who commanded the light infantry of the army. His daring courage had
long since obtained for him the sobriquet of "Mad Anthony." He accepted
the command with alacrity. Secrecy was deemed so much more essential to
success than numbers that no addition was made to the force already on
the lines. One brigade was ordered to commence its march so as to reach
the scene of action in time to cover the troops engaged in the attack
should any unlooked-for disaster befall them, and Maj. Henry Lee of
the light dragoons, who had been eminently useful in obtaining the
intelligence which led to the enterprise, was associated with Wayne as
far as cavalry could be employed in such a service. The night of the
15th (July, 1779), and the hour of twelve, were chosen for the assault.

Stony Point is a commanding hill projecting far into the Hudson which
washes three-fourths of its base. The remaining fourth was in a great
measure covered by a deep marsh, commencing near the river on the upper
side and continuing into it below. Over this marsh there was only one
crossing place, but at its junction with the river was a sandy beach
passable at low tide. On the summit of this hill stood the fort which
was furnished with heavy ordnance. Several breastworks and strong
batteries were advanced in front of the main work, and about half way
down the hill were two rows of abattis. The batteries were calculated
to command the beach and the crossing place of the marsh, and to rake
and enfilade any column which might be advancing from either of those
points toward the fort. In addition to these defenses several vessels
of war were stationed in the river and commanded the ground at the foot
of the hill. The garrison consisted of about 600 men commanded by
Colonel Johnson.

Wayne arrived about eight in the evening at Springsteel's, one and a
half miles from the fort and made his dispositions for the assault.

It was intended to attack the works on the right and left flanks at the
same instant. The regiments of Febiger and of Meigs with Major Hull's
detachment formed the right column, and Butler's regiment, with two
companies under Major Murfree, formed the left. One hundred and fifty
volunteers led by Lieutenant-Colonel Fleury and Major Posey constituted
the van of the right, and 100 volunteers under Major Stewart composed
the van of the left. At 11:30 the two columns moved to the assault, the
van of each with unloaded muskets and fixed bayonets. They were each
preceded by a forlorn hope of twenty men, the one commanded by
Lieutenant Gibbon and the other by Lieutenant Knox. They reached the
marsh undiscovered and at 12:20 commenced the assault.

Both columns rushed forward under a tremendous fire of grape-shot and
musketry. Surmounting every obstacle, they entered the works at the
point of the bayonet and without discharging a single musket obtained
possession of the fort.

The humanity displayed by the conquerors was not less conspicuous nor
less honorable than their courage. Not an individual suffered after
resistance had ceased.

All the troops engaged in this perilous service manifested a degree of
ardor and impetuosity which proved them to be capable of the most
difficult enterprises, and all distinguished themselves whose situation
enabled them to do so. Colonel Fleury, who had distinguished himself in
defense of the forts on the Delaware in 1777, was the first to enter
the fort and strike the British standard. Major Posey mounted the works
almost at the same instant and was the first to give the watch-word,
"The fort's our own." Lieutenants Gibbon and Knox performed the service
allotted to them with a degree of intrepidity which could not be
surpassed. Of twenty men who constituted the party of the former,
seventeen were killed or wounded. [1] Sixty-three of the garrison were
killed, including two officers. The prisoners amounted to 543, among
whom were 1 lieutenant-colonel, 4 captains, and 20 subaltern officers.
The military stores taken in the fort were considerable.

The loss sustained by the assailants was not proportioned to the
apparent danger of the enterprise. The killed and wounded did not
exceed 100 men. Wayne, who marched with Febiger's regiment in the right
column received a wound in the head which stunned him. Recovering
consciousness, but believing the wound to be mortal, he said to his
aids, "Carry me into the fort and let me die at the head of my column."
Being supported by his aids he entered the fort with the regiment.
Lieutenant-Colonel Hay was also among the wounded.

Although the design upon Fort Fayette had yielded to the desire of
securing the success of the attack on Stony Point it had not been
abandoned. Two brigades under General M'Dougal had been ordered to
approach the works on Verplanck's, in which Colonel Webster commanded,
and be in readiness to attack them the instant Wayne should obtain
possession of Stony Point. That this detachment might not permit the
favorable moment to pass unimproved Wayne had been requested to direct
the messenger who should convey the intelligence of his success to
Washington to pass through M'Dougal's camp and give him advice of that
event. He was also requested to turn the cannon of the fort against
Verplanck's and the vessels in the river. The last orders were executed
and a heavy cannonade was opened on Fort Fayette and on the vessels,
which compelled them to fall down the river. Through some
misconception, never explained, the messenger dispatched by Wayne did
not call on M'Dougal, but proceeded directly to headquarters. Thus,
every advantage expected from the first impression made by the capture
of Stony Point was lost, and the garrison had full leisure to recover
from the surprise occasioned by that event and to prepare for an
attack. This change of circumstances made it necessary to change the
plan of operation. Washington ordered General Howe to take the command
of M'Dougal's detachment to which some pieces of heavy artillery were
to be annexed. He was directed, after effecting a breach in the walls,
to make the dispositions for an assault and to demand a surrender, but
not to attempt a storm until it should be dark. To these orders
explicit instructions were added not to hazard his party by remaining
before Verplanck's after the British should cross Croton river in
force.

Through some unaccountable negligence in the persons charged with the
execution of these orders the battering artillery was not accompanied
with suitable ammunition, and the necessary entrenching tools were not
brought. These omissions were supplied the next day, but it was then
too late to proceed against Verplanck's.

On receiving intelligence of the loss of Stony Point and of the danger
to which the garrison of Fort Fayette was exposed, Sir Henry Clinton
relinquished his views on Connecticut and made a forced march to Dobb's
Ferry. Some troops were immediately embarked to pass up the river and a
light corps was pushed forward to the Croton. This movement relieved
Fort Fayette.

The failure of the attempt to obtain possession of Verplanck's Point,
leaving that road of communication still closed, diminished the
advantages which had been expected to result from the enterprise so
much that it was deemed unadvisable to maintain Stony Point. On
reconnoitering the ground Washington believed that the place could not
be rendered secure with a garrison of less than 1,500 men--a number
which could not be spared from the army without weakening it too much
for further operations. He determined, therefore, to evacuate Stony
Point and retire to the Highlands. As soon as this resolution was
executed Clinton repossessed himself of that post, repaired the
fortifications, and placed a stronger garrison in it, after which he
resumed his former situation at Philipsburg.

The two armies watched each other for some time. At length, Clinton,
finding himself unable to attack Washington in the strong position he
had taken or to draw him from it, and being desirous of transferring
the theater of active war to the south, withdrew to New York and was
understood to be strengthening the fortifications erected for its
defense, as preparatory to the large detachments he intended making to
reinforce the southern army.

Although this movement was made principally with a view to southern
operations, it was in some degree hastened by the opinion that New York
required immediate additional protection during the absence of the
fleet, which was about to sail for the relief of Penobscot.

Scarcely had Sir George Collier, who had accompanied Clinton up the
Hudson to take possession of Stony Point, returned to New York, when he
was informed that a fleet of armed vessels with transports and troops
had sailed from Boston to attack a post which General M'Lean was
establishing at Penobscot in the eastern part of the province of
Massachusetts bay. He immediately got ready for sea that part of the
naval force which was at New York, and on the 3d of August sailed to
relieve the garrison of Penobscot.

In the month of June (1779) General M'Lean, who commanded the royal
troops in Nova Scotia, arrived in the bay of Penobscot with nearly 700
men, in order to establish a post which might at once be a means of
checking the incursions of the Americans into Nova Scotia and of
supplying the royal yards at Halifax with ship timber, which abounded
in that part of the country. This establishment alarmed the government
of Massachusetts bay, which resolved to dislodge M'Lean, and, with
great promptitude, equipped a fleet and raised troops for that purpose.
The fleet, which consisted of fifteen vessels of war, carrying from
thirty-two to twelve guns each with transports, was commanded by
Commodore Saltonstall; the army, amounting to between three and four
thousand militia, was under the orders of General Lovell.

General M'Lean chose for his post a peninsula on the east side of
Penobscot bay, which is about seven leagues wide and seventeen deep,
terminating at the point where the river Penobscot flows into it.
M'Lean's station was nine miles from the bottom of the bay. As that
part of the country was then an unbroken forest he cleared away the
wood on the peninsula and began to construct a fort in which he was
assisted and protected by the crews of three sloops-of-war which had
escorted him thither. M'Lean heard of the expedition against him on the
21st of July (1779), when he had made little progress in the erection
of his fort. On the 25th the American fleet appeared in the bay, but,
owing to the opposition of the British sloops-of-war and to the bold
and rugged nature of the shore, the troops did not effect a landing
until the 28th. This interval M'Lean improved with such laborious
diligence that his fortifications were in a state of considerable
forwardness. Lovell erected a battery within 750 yards of the works,
and for nearly a fortnight a brisk cannonade was kept up and
preparations were made to assault the fort. But, on the 13th of August
(1779), Lovell was informed that Sir George Collier with a superior
naval force had entered the bay; therefore in the night he silently
embarked his troops and cannon, unperceived by the garrison, which was
every moment in expectation of being assaulted.

On the approach of the British fleet the Americans, after some show of
preparation for resistance, betook themselves to flight. A general
pursuit and unresisted destruction ensued. The Warren, a fine new
frigate of thirty-two guns, and fourteen other vessels of inferior
force, were either blown up or taken. The transports fled in confusion
and, after having landed the troops in a wild and uncultivated part of
the country, were burnt. The men, destitute of provisions and other
necessaries, had to explore their way for more than 100 miles through
an uninhabited and pathless wilderness and many of them perished before
reaching the settled country. After this successful exploit Sir George
Collier returned to New York, where he resigned the command of the
fleet to Admiral Arbuthnot, who had arrived from England with some
ships of war and with provisions, stores, and reinforcements for the
army.

On descending the river, after replacing the garrison of Stony Point,
Sir Henry Clinton encamped above Harlem, with his upper posts at
Kingsbridge. Washington remained in his strong position in the
Highlands, but frequently detached numerous parties on both sides of
the river in order to check the British foragers and to restrain the
intercourse with the Loyalists. Major Lee ("Light Horse Harry"), who
commanded one of those parties, planned a bold and hazardous enterprise
against the British post at Paulus Hook on the Jersey bank of the
river, opposite New York. That post was strongly fortified and of
difficult access, and therefore the garrison thought themselves secure.
But Lee determined to make an attempt on the place and chose the
morning of the 20th of August (1779) for his enterprise, when part of
the garrison was absent on a foraging excursion. Advancing silently at
the head of 300 men the sentinel at the gate mistook his party for that
which had marched out the preceding day, and allowed them to pass
unchallenged, and almost in an instant they seized the blockhouse and
two redoubts before the alarm was given. Major Sutherland, commandant
of the post, with sixty Hessians, entered a redoubt and began a brisk
fire on the assailants. This gave an extensive notice of the attack,
and the firing of guns in New York, and by the shipping in the roads,
proved that the alarm was widely spread. In order, therefore, not to
hazard the loss of his party, Lee retreated with the loss of two men
killed and three wounded, carrying along with him about 150 prisoners.
Notwithstanding the difficulties and dangers which he had to encounter,
he effected his retreat. It was not his design to keep possession of
the place, but to carry off the garrison, reflect credit on the
American arms, and encourage a spirit of enterprise in the army. [2]

The expedition planned by Washington for chastising the Indians who had
committed such atrocities last year on the frontier and particularly at
Wyoming, was the most important of this campaign. Washington entrusted
the command of it to General Sullivan. The largest division of the army
employed on that service assembled at Wyoming. Another division, which
had wintered on the Mohawk, marched under the orders of Gen. James
Clinton and joined the main body at the confluence of the two great
sources of the Susquehanna. On the 22d. of August (1779), the united
force, amounting to nearly 5,000 men, under the command of General
Sullivan, proceeded up the Cayuga or western branch of the last-named
river which led directly into the Indian country. The preparations for
this expedition did not escape the notice of those against whom it was
directed, and the Indians seem fully to have penetrated Sullivan's plan
of operation. Formidable as his force was they determined to meet him
and try the fortune of a battle. They were about 1,000 strong,
commanded by the two Butlers, Guy Johnson, M'Donald, and Brandt. They
chose their ground with judgment and fortified their camp at some
distance above Chemung and within a mile of Newtown.

There Sullivan attacked them and, after a short but spirited
resistance, they retreated with precipitation. The Americans had thirty
men killed or wounded; the Indians left only eleven dead bodies on the
field, but they were so discouraged by this defeat that they abandoned
their villages and fields to the unresisted ravages of the victor, who
laid waste their towns and orchards, so that they might have no
inducement again to settle so near the settlements of the whites.

The severity of this proceeding has been censured by some writers, but
it requires no apology. Nothing could convince the savages of the
injustice and inhumanity of their usual system of warfare on the
frontier so effectually as to give them a specimen of it, even in a
milder form, in their own country. Sullivan desolated their villages
and farms, but we do not learn that he took any scalps or murdered any
women or children, or tortured any of his prisoners. The measure of
retaliation which he dealt to the miscreants who sacked Wyoming was
gentleness and humanity when compared with their proceedings. It is
only to be regretted that his retaliation could not have been applied
to the homes of the British and Tories who assisted the Indians at
Wyoming. Sullivan and his army received a vote of thanks from Congress,
but the general's health failing, he soon resigned his commission and
retired from the service.

Sullivan's orders from Washington exculpate him from all blame as to
the mode of punishing the Indians. "Of the expedition," Washington
says, in writing to him, "the immediate objects are the total
destruction and devastation of their settlements and the capture of as
many prisoners of every age and sex as possible." Washington knew that
this kind of warfare was the only possible means of putting an end to
Indian wars. Any other mode of proceeding, he was fully aware, was
treachery and cruelty to his own countrymen.

A few days after the surprise of Paulus Hook by Major Lee, the long-
expected fleet from Europe, under the command of Admiral Arbuthnot,
having on board a reinforcement for the British army, arrived at New
York. This reinforcement, however, did not enable Clinton to enter
immediately on that active course of offensive operations which he had
meditated. It was soon followed by the Count D'Estaing, who arrived on
the southern coast of America with a powerful fleet, after which
Clinton deemed it necessary to turn all his attention to his own
security. Rhode Island and the posts up the North river were evacuated
and the whole army was collected in New York, the fortifications of
which were carried on with unremitting industry.

The Count D'Estaing and Admiral Byron having sailed about the same time
from the coast of North America, met in the West Indies, where the war
was carried on with various success. St. Lucia surrendered to the
British in compensation for which the French took St. Vincent's and
Grenada. About the time of the capture of the latter island D'Estaing
received reinforcements which gave him a decided naval superiority,
after which a battle was fought between the two hostile fleets, in
which the count claimed the victory and in which so many of the British
ships were disabled that the admiral was compelled to retire into port
in order to refit.

Early in May (1779) Sir Henry Clinton had dispatched from New York a
squadron under Sir George Collier with 2,500 troops under General
Mathews, who entered Chesapeake Bay, and, after taking possession of
Portsmouth, sent out parties of soldiers to Norfolk, Suffolk, Gosport,
and other places in the neighborhood, where there were large deposits
of provisions and military and naval stores, and many merchant vessels,
some on the stocks and some laden with valuable cargoes. These were all
burnt and the whole neighborhood subjected to plunder and devastation.
This was a severe blow to the commerce on which Congress placed great
dependence for supplies to the army and for sustaining its own credit.

In compliance with the solicitations of General Lincoln and the
authorities of South Carolina, D'Estaing directed his course to the
coast of Georgia with twenty-two ships of the line and eleven frigates
having on board 6,000 soldiers, and arrived so suddenly on the southern
coast of America that the Experiment, of fifty guns, and three
frigates, fell into his hands. A vessel was sent to Charleston with
information of his arrival and a plan was concerted for the siege of
Savannah.

General Lincoln, who, after the fall of Savannah, had been sent to
Charleston to take command of the southern department of the army, was
to cooperate with D'Estaing's fleet and army in the siege. Instead of
assaulting the place at the earliest practicable moment, they granted
Prevost, the British commander at Savannah, an armistice of twenty-four
hours, during which he received reinforcements and set them at
defiance. They then commenced a siege by regular approaches on land and
cannonade and bombardment from D'Estaing's formidable fleet in the
harbor. This lasted for three weeks.

On the 9th of October (1779), without having effected a sufficient
breach, the united French and American forces stormed the works. Great
gallantry was displayed by the assailants. The French and American
standards were both planted on the redoubts. But it was all in vain.
They were completely repulsed, the French losing 700 and the Americans
340 men. Count Pulaski was among the slain.

The loss of the garrison was astonishingly small. In killed and wounded
it amounted only to fifty-five--so great was the advantage of the cover
afforded by their works. After this repulse the Count D'Estaing
announced to General Lincoln his determination to raise the siege. The
remonstrances of that officer were unavailing, and the removal of the
heavy ordnance and stores was commenced. This being accomplished, both
armies moved from their ground on the evening of the 18th of October
(1779). The Americans, recrossing the Savannah at Zubly's Ferry, again
encamped in South Carolina, and the French re-embarked. D'Estaing
himself sailed with a part of his fleet for France; the rest proceeded
to the West Indies.

Although the issue of this enterprise was the source of severe chagrin
and mortification the prudence of General Lincoln suppressed every
appearance of dissatisfaction, and the armies separated with
manifestations of reciprocal esteem. The hopes which had brought the
militia into the field being disappointed they dispersed, and the
affairs of the southern States wore a more gloomy aspect than at any
former period.

During the siege of Savannah an ingenious enterprise of partisan
warfare was executed by Colonel White of the Georgia line. Before the
arrival of the French fleet in the Savannah, a British captain with in
men had taken post near the river Ogeeche, twenty-five miles from
Savannah. At the same place were five British vessels, four of which
were armed, the largest with fourteen guns, the least with four, and
the vessels were manned with forty sailors. Late at night, on the 30th
of September (1779), White, who had only six volunteers, including his
own servant, kindled a number of fires in different places so as to
exhibit the appearance of a considerable encampment, practiced several
other corresponding artifices, and then summoned the captain instantly
to surrender. That officer, believing that he was about to be attacked
by a superior force and that nothing but immediate submission could
save him and his men from destruction, made no defense. The stratagem
was carried on with so much address that the prisoners, amounting to
141, were secured and conducted to the American post at Sunbury,
twenty-five miles distant.

On receiving intelligence of the situation of Lincoln, Congress passed
a resolution requesting Washington to order the North Carolina troops,
and such others as could be spared from the northern army, to the aid
of that in the South and assuring the States of South Carolina and
Georgia of the attention of government to their preservation, but
requesting them, for their own defense to comply with the
recommendations formerly made respecting the completion of their
Continental regiments, and the government of their militia while in
actual service.

Washington had already received (November 1779) intelligence of the
disastrous result of D'Estaing and Lincoln's attack on Savannah, and
had formed his plans of operation before Congress sent assurances of
aid to the South. Giving up all expectation of cooperation from the
French fleet, he disbanded the New York and Massachusetts militia and
made his arrangements for the winter. He ordered one division of the
army under General Heath to the Highlands to protect West Point and the
posts in that neighborhood, and with the other division he went into
winter quarters near Morristown, the army being quartered in huts, as
at Valley Forge. The cavalry were sent to Connecticut.

Washington had already penetrated the design of the enemy to make the
southern States their principal field of operation, and accordingly he
dispatched to Charleston the North Carolina brigade in November, and
the whole of the Virginia line in December. On the other hand, Clinton
and Cornwallis embarked with a large force in transports convoyed by
Admiral Arbuthnot with a fleet of five ships of the line and several
frigates, and sailed on the 26th of December 1779, for Savannah.
Knyphausen was left in command of the garrison of New York. [3]

Washington's own summary of the operations of this campaign (1779) is
contained in a letter to Lafayette in the following terms: "The
operations of the enemy this campaign have been confined to the
establishment of works of defense, taking a post at King's Ferry, and
burning the defenseless towns of New Haven, Fairfield, and Norwalk, on
the Sound, within reach of their shipping, where little else was or
could be opposed to them than the cries of distressed women and
children; but these were offered in vain. Since these notable exploits
they have never stepped out of their works or beyond their lines. How a
conduct of this kind is to effect the conquest of America, the wisdom
of a North, a Germaine, or a Sandwich can best decide. It is too deep
and refined for the comprehension of common understandings and the
general run of politicians."

1. Footnote: For their bravery and good conduct at Stony Point, Wayne
received a gold, and Stewart and Fleury silver medals, with the thanks
of Congress. A separate medal was designed and struck for each of them.

2. Footnote: Lee, for this exploit at Paulus Hook, was presented with a
gold medal by Congress.

3. Footnote: Irving




CHAPTER XVIII.


CAMPAIGN IN THE NORTH-ARNOLD'S TREASON. 1780.


During the winter which followed the campaign of 1779, Washington, with
his army hutted on the heights of Morristown, was beset by pressing and
formidable difficulties. The finances of Congress were in a most
depressed condition, and the urgent wants of the army were but ill
supplied. The evils of short enlistment, though distinctly understood
and strongly felt, could not be remedied, and the places of those men
who were leaving the army on the expiration of their stipulated term of
service could not easily be filled up. Besides, the troops were in
danger of perishing by cold and famine. During the preceding year
General Greene and Colonel Wadsworth had been at the head of the
quartermaster and commissary departments, and notwithstanding their
utmost exertions, the wants of the army had been ill supplied. After
being put into winter quarters it was in great danger of being
dissolved by want of provisions or of perishing through famine. The
Colonial paper money was in a state of great and increasing
depreciation, and in order to check the alarming evil Congress, which,
like other popular assemblies had in it no small share of ignorance and
self-sufficiency, resolved to diminish the circulation and keep up the
value of their paper currency by withholding the necessary supplies
from the public agents. This foolish resolution threatened the ruin of
the army. Nobody was willing to make contracts with the public and some
of those entered into were not fulfilled.

Congress, jealous of the public agents, because ignorant of what was
really necessary, repeatedly changed the form of its engagements with
them, and, at length, by its fluctuating policy, real wants, and
imprudent parsimony, brought matters to such extremities that
Washington was compelled to require the several counties of the State
of New Jersey to furnish his army with certain quantities of provisions
within six days in order to prevent them from being taken by force.
Although the province was much exhausted, yet the people instantly
complied with the requisition and furnished a temporary supply to the
army. [1]

Soon after Clinton sailed on his expedition against Charleston a frost
of unexampled intensity began. The Hudson, East river, and all the
waters around New York were so completely frozen that an army with its
artillery and wagons might have crossed them in all directions with
perfect safety. New York lost all the advantages of its insular
situation and became easily accessible on every side. The city was
fortified by the British, but on account of its insular situation,
several parts being considered of difficult access were left
undefended. By the strength of the ice, however, every point became
exposed, and in that unforeseen emergency, Knyphausen who commanded in
the city with a garrison of 10,000 men took every prudent precaution
for his defense and fortified every vulnerable part, but the
inefficiency of the American army was his best security. Washington
easily perceived the advantages which the extraordinary frost gave him,
but from the destitute state of his army he was unable to avail himself
of them. The army under his immediate command was inferior in number to
the garrison of New York; it was also ill clad, scantily supplied with
provisions, and in no condition to undertake offensive operations.

The British had a post on Staten Island, and as the ice opened a free
communication between the island and the New Jersey coast, Washington,
notwithstanding the enfeebled condition of his army resolved to attack
the garrison, and appointed Lord Stirling to conduct the enterprise.
The night of the 14th of January (1780) was chosen for the attempt,
but, though the Americans used every precaution, the officer commanding
on Staten Island discovered their intention and took effectual measures
to defeat it. The attack was repulsed, but little loss was sustained on
either side.

The extreme cold occasioned much suffering in New York by want of
provisions and fuel, for as the communication by water was entirely
stopped the usual supplies, were cut off. The demand for fuel in
particular was so pressing that it was found expedient to break up some
old transports, and to pull down some uninhabited wooden houses for the
purpose of procuring that necessary article. As the British paid in
ready money for provisions or firewood carried within the lines many of
the country people, tempted by the precious metals, so rare among them,
tried to supply the garrison. The endeavors of the British to encourage
and protect this intercourse and the exertions of the Americans to
prevent it brought on a sort of partisan warfare in which the former
most frequently had the advantage. In one of the most important of
those encounters, early in February (1780), near White Plains, a
captain and 14 men of a Massachusetts regiment were killed on the spot,
17 were wounded, and 90, with Colonel Thompson, the officer who
commanded the party, were made prisoners. Washington, writing to
General Heath respecting this affair, says: "It is some consolation
that our officers and men appear to have made a brave resistance. I
cannot help suspecting that our officers in advance quarter too long in
a place. By these means the enemy by their emissaries gain a perfect
knowledge of their cantonments and form their attacks accordingly. Were
they to shift constantly the enemy could scarcely ever attain this
knowledge."

Congress found itself placed in very difficult circumstances. It always
contained a number of men of talents and manifested no small share of
vigor and activity. Many of the members were skilful in the management
of their private affairs, and having been successful in the world
thought themselves competent to direct the most important national
concerns, although unacquainted with the principles of finance,
legislation, or war. Animated by that blind presumption which generally
characterizes popular assemblies they often entered into resolutions
which discovered little practical wisdom. In pecuniary matters they
were dilatory and never anticipated trying emergencies, or made
provision for probable events, till they were overtaken by some urgent
necessity. Hence they were frequently deliberating about levying troops
and supplying the army when the troops ought to have been in the field,
and the army fully equipped for active service. This often placed
Washington in the most trying and perilous circumstances.

Congress had solemnly resolved not to exceed $200,000,000 in
Continental bills of credit. In November, 1779, the whole of that sum
was issued and expended also. The demand on the States to replenish the
treasury by taxes had not been fully complied with, and even although
it had been completely answered would not have furnished a sum adequate
to the expenses of government. Instead of maturely considering and
digesting a plan, adhering to it, and improving it by experience,
Congress often changed its measures, and even in the midst of those
distresses which had brought the army to the verge of dissolution, was
busy in devising new and untried expedients for supporting it. As the
treasury was empty and money could not be raised, Congress, on the 25th
of February (1780), resolved to call on the several States for their
proportion of provisions, spirits, and forage for the maintenance of
the army during the ensuing campaign, but specified no time within
which these were to be collected, and consequently the States were in
no haste in the matter. In order to encourage and facilitate compliance
with this requisition it was further resolved that any State which
should have taken the necessary measures for furnishing its quota, and
given notice thereof to Congress, should be authorized to prohibit any
Continental quartermaster or commissary from purchasing within its
limits.

Every man who had a practical knowledge of the subject easily perceived
the defective nature and dangerous tendency of this arrangement. It was
an attempt to carry on the war rather by separate provincial efforts
than by a combination of national strength, and if the army received
from any State where it was acting the appointed quantity of
necessaries it had no right, though starving, to purchase what it stood
in need of. Besides the carriage of provisions from distant parts was
troublesome, expensive, and sometimes impracticable.

The troops were ill clothed, their pay was in arrear, and that of the
officers, owing to the great depreciation of the paper currency, was
wholly unequal to their decent maintenance. These multiplied privations
and sufferings soured the temper of the men, and it required all the
influence of Washington to prevent many of the officers from resigning
their commissions. The long continuance of want and hardship produced
relaxation of discipline which at length manifested itself in open
mutiny. On the 25th of May (1780) two regiments belonging to
Connecticut paraded under arms, with the avowed intention of returning
home, or of obtaining subsistence at the point of the bayonet. The rest
of the soldiers, though they did not join in the mutiny, showed little
disposition to suppress it. At length the two regiments were brought
back to their duty, but much murmuring and many complaints were heard.
While the army was in such want the inhabitants of New Jersey, where
most of the troops were stationed, were unavoidably harassed by
frequent requisitions, which excited considerable discontent. Reports
of the mutinous state of the American army and of the dissatisfaction
of the people of New Jersey, probably much exaggerated, were carried to
General Knyphausen, who, believing the American soldiers ready to
desert their standards and the inhabitants of New Jersey willing to
abandon the Union, on the 6th of June (1780), passed from Staten Island
to Elizabethtown, in Jersey, with 5,000 men. That movement was intended
to encourage the mutinous disposition of the American troops, and to
fan the flame of discontent among the inhabitants of the province.
Early next morning he marched into the country toward Springfield by
the way of Connecticut Farms, a flourishing plantation, so named
because the cultivators had come from Connecticut. But even before
reaching that place which was only five or six miles from
Elizabethtown, the British perceived that the reports which they had
received concerning the discontent of the Americans were incorrect, for
on the first alarm the militia assembled with great alacrity and aided
by some small parties of regular troops, annoyed the British by an
irregular but galling fire of musketry, wherever the nature of the
ground presented a favorable opportunity, and although those parties
were nowhere strong enough to make a stand, yet they gave plain
indications of the temper and resolution which were to be encountered
in advancing into the country. At Connecticut Farms the British
detachment halted. The settlers were known to be zealous in the
American cause and therefore with a little spirit of revenge, the
British, among whom was General Tryon, laid the flourishing village,
with its church and the minister's house, in ashes. Here occurred one
of those affecting incidents which being somewhat out of the ordinary
course of the miseries of war make a deep impression on the public
mind. Mr. Caldwell, minister of the place, had withdrawn toward
Springfield, but had left his wife and family behind believing them to
be in no danger. The British advanced to the industrious and peaceful
village. Mrs. Caldwell, trusting to her sex for safety and unsuspicious
of harm, was sitting in her house with her children around her when a
soldier came up, leveled his musket at the window, and shot her dead on
the spot in the midst of her terrified family. On the intercession of a
friend the dead body was permitted to be removed when the house was set
on fire. This atrocious deed excited such general horror and
detestation that the British thought proper to disavow it, and to
impute the death of Mrs. Caldwell to a random shot from the retreating
militia, though the militia did not fire a musket in the village. The
wanton murder of the lady might be the unauthorized act of a savage
individual, but can the burning of the house after her death be
accounted for in the same way? Knyphausen was a veteran officer and
cannot be supposed capable of entering into local animosities or of
countenancing such brutality, but Tryon was present and his conduct on
other occasions was not unblemished.

Mr. Caldwell had rendered himself particularly obnoxious to the enemy,
and was cordially hated by Tryon for his zealous devotion to the
patriotic cause. He had served as a chaplain in the army, was
exceedingly popular among the patriots of New Jersey, had given up his
church to be used as a hospital, and had exerted himself by eloquent
appeals to arouse his countrymen to unflinching resistance against the
enemy. For this Tryon caused his church to be burnt and did not prevent
the soldiers from shooting his wife.

After destroying the Connecticut Farms, Knyphausen advanced toward
Springfield, where the Jersey brigade, under General Maxwell, and a
large body of militia had taken an advantageous position and seemed
resolved to defend it. General Knyphausen, however, had met with a
reception so different from what he expected that without making any
attempt on the American post he withdrew during the night to
Elizabethtown.

On being informed of the invasion of New Jersey, Washington put his
army in motion early on the morning of the day in which Knyphausen
marched from Elizabethtown and proceeded to the Short hills behind
Springfield, while the British were in the vicinity of that place.
Feeble as his army was, he made the necessary dispositions for
fighting, but the unexpected retreat of Knyphausen rendered a battle
unnecessary. The British were followed by an American detachment, which
attacked their rear guard next morning but was repulsed. Instead of
returning to New York, Knyphausen lingered in the vicinity of
Elizabethtown and on Staten Island, and Washington, unwilling with his
inadequate force to hazard an engagement except on advantageous ground,
remained on the hills near Springfield to watch the movements of the
British army. At that time the army under the immediate orders of
Washington did not exceed 4,000 effective men.

On the 18th of June (1780), Sir Henry Clinton returned from South
Carolina with about 4,000 men, and after receiving this reinforcement
the British force in New York and its dependencies amounted to 12,000
effective and regular troops, most of whom could be brought into the
field for any particular service; besides these, the British commander
had about 4,000 militia and refugees for garrison duty. The British
army directed on any one point would have been irresistible; therefore
Washington could only follow a wary policy, occupying strong ground,
presenting a bold front, and concealing the weakness of his army as far
as possible.

The embarkation of troops by Sir Henry Clinton awakened the
apprehensions of Washington lest he should sail up the Hudson and
attack the posts in the Highlands. Those posts had always been objects
of much solicitude to Washington, and he was extremely jealous of any
attack upon them. In order to be in readiness to resist any such
attack, he left General Greene at Springfield, with 700 Continentals,
the Jersey militia, and some cavalry, and proceeded toward Pompton with
the main body of the army. Sir Henry Clinton, after having perplexed
the Americans by his movements, early on the morning of the 23d of June
(1780), rapidly advanced in full force from Elizabethtown toward
Springfield. General Greene hastily assembled his scattered detachments
and apprised Washington of the march of the royal army, who instantly
returned to support Greene's division. The British marched in two
columns--one on the main road leading to Springfield and the other on
the Vauxhall road. Greene scarcely had time to collect his troops at
Springfield and make the necessary dispositions when the royal army
appeared before the town and a cannonade immediately began. A fordable
rivulet, with bridges corresponding to the different roads, runs in
front of the place. Greene had stationed parties to guard the bridges
and they obstinately disputed the passage, but after a smart conflict
they were overpowered and compelled to retreat.

Greene then fell back and took post on a range of hills, where he
expected to be again attacked. But the British, instead of attempting
to pursue their advantage, contented themselves with setting fire to
the village and laying the greater part of it in ashes. Discouraged by
the obstinate resistance they had received and ignorant of the weakness
of the detachment which opposed them, they immediately retreated to
Elizabethtown, pursued with the utmost animosity by the militia, who
were provoked at the burning of Springfield. They arrived at
Elizabethtown about sunset, and, continuing their march to Elizabeth
Point, began at midnight to pass over to Staten Island. Before 6 next
morning they had entirely evacuated the Jerseys and removed the bridge
of boats which communicated with Staten Island.

In the skirmish at Springfield the Americans had about 20 men killed
and 60 wounded. The British suffered a corresponding loss. Clinton's
object in this expedition seems to have been to destroy the American
magazines in that part of the country. But the obstinate resistance
which he met with at Springfield deterred him from advancing into a
district abounding in difficult passes, where every strong position
would be vigorously defended. He seems also to have been checked by the
apprehension of a fleet and army from France.

Washington was informed of Clinton's march soon after the British left
Elizabethtown, but, though he hastily returned, the skirmish at
Springfield was over before he reached the vicinity of that place.

After Clinton left the Jerseys, Washington planned an enterprise
against a British post at Bergen point, on the Hudson, opposite New
York, garrisoned by seventy Loyalists. It was intended to reduce the
post and also to carry off a number of cattle on Bergen Neck, from
which the garrison of New York occasionally received supplies of fresh
provisions. General Wayne was appointed to conduct the enterprise. With
a respectable force he marched against the post, which consisted of a
blockhouse covered by an abattis and palisade. Wayne pointed his
artillery against the blockhouse, but his field pieces made no
impression on the logs. Galled by the fire from the loopholes, some of
his men rushed impetuously through the abattis and attempted to storm
the blockhouse, but they were repulsed with considerable loss. Though
the Americans, however, failed in their attempt against the post, they
succeeded in driving off most of the cattle.

On the commencement of hostilities in Europe, Lafayette, as we have
seen, returned home in order to offer his services to his King, still,
however, retaining his rank in the army of Congress. His ardor in
behalf of the Americans remained unabated and he exerted all his
influence with the court of Versailles to gain its effectual support to
the United States. His efforts were successful and the King of France
resolved vigorously to assist the Americans both by sea and land.
Having gained this important point, and perceiving that there was no
need for his military services in Europe, he obtained leave from his
sovereign to return to America and join his former companions in arms.
He landed at Boston toward the end of April (1780), and, on his way to
Congress, called at the headquarters of Washington and informed him of
the powerful succor which might soon be expected from France. He met
with a most cordial reception both from Congress and Washington on
account of his high rank, tried friendship, and distinguished services.

The assistance expected from their powerful ally was very encouraging
to the Americans, but called for corresponding exertions on their part.
Washington found himself in the most perplexing circumstances; his army
was feeble, and he could form no plan for the campaign till he knew
what forces were to be put under his orders. His troops, both officers
and privates, were ill clothed and needed to be decently appareled
before they could be led into the field to cooperate with soldiers in
respectable uniforms, for his half-naked battalions would only have
been objects of contempt and derision to their better-dressed allies.
In order to supply these defects and to get his army in a state of due
preparation before the arrival of the European auxiliaries, Washington
made the most pressing applications to Congress and to the several
State Legislatures. Congress resolved and recommended, but the States
were dilatory, and their tardy proceedings ill accorded with the
exigencies of the case or with the expectations of those who best
understood the affairs of the Union. Even on the 4th of July (1780),
Washington had the mortification to find that few new levies had
arrived in camp and some of the States had not even taken the trouble
to inform him of the number of men they intended to furnish.

In the month of June the State of Massachusetts had resolved to send a
reinforcement, but no part of it had yet arrived. About the same time a
voluntary subscription was entered into in Philadelphia for the purpose
of providing bounties to recruits to fill up the Pennsylvania line, and
the President or Vice-President in council was empowered, if
circumstances required it, to put the State under martial law.

The merchants and other citizens of Philadelphia, with a zeal guided by
that sound discretion which turns expenditure to the best account,
established a bank, for the support of which they subscribed 315,000,
Pennsylvania money, to be paid, if required, in specie, the principal
object of which was to supply the army with provisions. By the plan of
this bank its members were to derive no emolument whatever from the
institution. For advancing their credit and their money they required
only that Congress should pledge the faith of the Union to reimburse
the costs and charges of the transaction in a reasonable time, and
should give such assistance to its execution as might be in their
power.

The ladies of Philadelphia, too, gave a splendid example of patriotism
by large donations for the immediate relief of the suffering army. [2]

This example was extensively followed, but it is not by the
contributions of the generous that a war can or ought to be maintained.
The purse of a nation alone can supply the expenditures of a nation,
and when all are interested in a contest all ought to contribute to its
support. Taxes and taxes only can furnish for the prosecution of a
national war means which are just in themselves or competent to the
object.

Notwithstanding these donations the distresses of the army, for
clothing especially, still continued and were the more severely felt
when a cooperation with French troops was expected. So late as the 20th
of June (1780) Washington informed Congress that he still labored under
the painful and humiliating embarrassment of having no shirts for the
soldiers, many of whom were destitute of that necessary article. "For
the troops to be without clothing at any time," he added, "is highly
injurious to the service and distressing to our feelings, but the want
will be more peculiarly mortifying when they come to act with those of
our allies. If it be possible, I have no doubt immediate measures will
be taken to relieve their distress.

"It is also most sincerely wished that there could be some supplies of
clothing furnished to the officers. There are a great many whose
condition is still miserable. This is, in some instances, the case with
the whole lines of the States. It would be well for their own sakes and
for the public good if they could be furnished. They will not be able,
when our friends come to cooperate with us, to go on a common routine
of duty, and if they should, they must, from their appearance, be held
in low estimation."

This picture presents in strong colors the real patriotism of the
American army. One heroic effort, though it may dazzle the mind with
its splendor, is an exertion most men are capable of making, but
continued patient suffering and unremitting perseverance in a service
promising no personal emolument and exposing the officer unceasingly
not only to wants of every kind, but to those circumstances of
humiliation which seem to degrade him in the eyes of others,
demonstrate a fortitude of mind, a strength of virtue, and a firmness
of principle which ought never to be forgotten.

Washington was greatly embarrassed by his uncertainty with respect to
the force which he might count upon to cooperate with the expected
succors from France. Writing to Congress on this subject he said: "The
season is come when we have every reason to expect the arrival of the
fleet, and yet, for want of this point of primary consequence, it is
impossible for me to form a system of cooperation. I have no basis to
act upon, and, of course, were this generous succor of our ally now to
arrive, I should find myself in the most awkward, embarrassing, and
painful situation. The general and the admiral, from the relation in
which I stand, as soon as they approach our coast, will require of me a
plan of the measures to be pursued, and there ought of right to be one
prepared; but, circumstanced as I am, I cannot even give them
conjectures. From these considerations I have suggested to the
committee, by a letter I had the honor of addressing them yesterday,
the indispensable necessity of their writing again to the States,
urging them to give immediate and precise information of the measures
they have taken and of the result. The interest of the States, the
honor and reputation of our councils, the justice and gratitude due to
our allies, all require that I should, without delay, be enabled to
ascertain and inform them what we can or cannot undertake. There is a
point which ought now to be determined, on the success of which all our
future operations may depend, on which, for want of knowing our
prospects, I can make no decision. For fear of involving the fleet and
army of our allies in circumstances which would expose them, if not
seconded by us, to material inconvenience and hazard, I shall be
compelled to suspend it, and the delay may be fatal to our hopes."

While this uncertainty still continued, the expected succors from
France, consisting of a fleet of eight ships of the line, with frigates
and other vessels, under the Chevalier de Ternay, having about 6,000
troops on board under General the Count de Rochambeau, reached Rhode
Island on the evening of the 10th of July (1780), and in a few days
afterward Lafayette arrived at Newport from Washington's headquarters
to confer with his countrymen.

At the time of the arrival of the French in Rhode Island, Admiral
Arbuthnot had only four sail of the line at New York, but in a few days
Admiral Graves arrived from England with six sail of the line, which
gave the British a decided superiority over the French squadron, and
therefore Sir Henry Clinton, without delay, prepared for active
operations. He embarked about 8,000 men and sailed with the fleet to
Huntington bay, in Long Island, with the intention of proceeding
against the French at Newport. The militia of Massachusetts and
Connecticut were ordered by Washington to join the French forces in
Rhode Island, and the combined army there thought itself able to give
the British a good reception.

As the garrison of New York was weakened by the sailing of the armament
under Clinton, Washington, having received considerable reinforcements,
suddenly crossed the North river and advanced toward New York; that
movement brought Clinton back to defend the place and consequently
Washington proceeded no further in his meditated enterprise.

The want of money and of all necessaries still continued in the
American camp, and the discontent of the troops, gradually increasing,
was matured into a dangerous spirit of insubordination. The men,
indeed, bore incredible hardships and privations with unexampled
fortitude and patience, but the army was in a state of constant
fluctuation; it was composed, in a great measure, of militia harassed
by perpetual service and obliged to neglect the cultivation of their
farms and their private interests in order to obey the calls of public
duty, and of soldiers on short enlistments, who never acquired the
military spirit and habits.

In consequence of an appointment, Washington and suite set out to a
conference with Count Rochambeau and Admiral de Ternay, and on the 21st
of September (1780) met them at Hartford, in Connecticut, where they
spent a few days together, and conversed about a plan for the next
campaign.

The conference was useful in making the respective commanders well
acquainted with each other, and promoting a spirit of harmony between
them; but it led to no settled plan for the next campaign. A plan of
operations for the combined forces, which had been drawn up by
Washington and sent to Rochambeau by Lafayette when he went to Newport,
had contemplated the superiority of the naval force of the French,
which had now ceased to exist in consequence of the arrival of Admiral
Graves with a fleet of six ships of the line. It was consequently
agreed that nothing could be done in the way of offensive movements
until the arrival of a second division of the French fleet and army
from Brest, which was expected, or that of the Count de Guichen from
the West Indies. In the sequel, neither of these arrivals took place.
The second French division was blockaded at Brest, and never came to
this country, and de Guichen sailed direct to France from the West
Indies. Meantime Admiral Arbuthnot blockaded the French fleet at
Newport, and Rochambeau's army remained there for its protection. Both
the parties remained watching each other's movements, and depending on
the operations of the British and French fleets. Washington crossed the
Hudson to Tappan and remained there till winter.

Washington did not relinquish without infinite chagrin the sanguine
expectations he had formed of rendering this campaign decisive of the
war. Never before had he indulged so strongly the hope of happily
terminating the contest. In a letter to an intimate friend, this
chagrin was thus expressed: "We are now drawing to a close an inactive
campaign, the beginning of which appeared pregnant with events of a
very favorable complexion. I hoped, but I hoped in vain, that a
prospect was opening which would enable me to fix a period to my
military pursuits and restore me to domestic life. The favorable
disposition of Spain, the promised succor from France, the combined
force in the West Indies, the declaration of Russia (acceded to by
other powers of Europe, humiliating the naval pride and power of Great
Britain), the superiority of France and Spain by sea in Europe, the
Irish claims and English disturbances, formed in the aggregate an
opinion in my breast (which is not very susceptible of peaceful
dreams), that the hour of deliverance was not far distant; for that,
however unwilling Great Britain might be to yield the point, it would
not be in her power to continue the contest. But, alas, these
prospects, flattering as they were, have proved delusive, and I see
nothing before us but accumulating distress. We have been half of our
time without provisions and are likely to continue so. We have no
magazines nor money to form them. We have lived upon expedients until
we can live no longer. In a word, the history of the war is a history
of false hopes and temporary devices, instead of system and economy. It
is in vain, however, to look back, nor is it our business to do so. Our
case is not desperate if virtue exists in the people, and there is
wisdom among our rulers. But to suppose that this great revolution can
be accomplished by a temporary army, that this army will be subsisted
by State supplies and that taxation alone is adequate to our wants is
in my opinion absurd, and as unreasonable as to expect an inversion of
the order of nature to accommodate itself to our views. If it were
necessary it could be easily proved to any person of a moderate
understanding that an annual army or any army raised on the spur of the
occasion besides being unqualified for the end designed is, in various
ways that could be enumerated, ten times more expensive than a
permanent body of men under good organization and military discipline,
which never was nor will be the case with raw troops. A thousand
arguments, resulting from experience and the nature of things, might
also be adduced to prove that the army, if it is to depend upon State
supplies, must disband or starve, and that taxation alone (especially
at this late hour) cannot furnish the means to carry on the war. Is it
not time to retract from error and benefit by experience? Or do we want
further proof of the ruinous system we have pertinaciously adhered to?"

While the respective armies were in the state of inaction to which we
have just referred, the whole country was astounded by the discovery of
Arnold's treason. The details of this sad affair disclosed traits in
the character of this officer which were previously unknown, and, by
the public generally, unsuspected.

The great service and military talents of General Arnold, his courage
in battle and patient fortitude under excessive hardships had secured
to him a high place in the opinion of the army and of his country. Not
having sufficiently recovered from the wounds received before Quebec
and at Saratoga to be fit for active service, and having large accounts
to settle with the government, which required leisure, he was, on the
evacuation of Philadelphia in 1778, appointed to the command in that
place.

Unfortunately that strength of principle and correctness of judgment
which might enable him to resist the various seductions to which his
fame and rank exposed him in the metropolis of the Union, were not
associated with the firmness which he had displayed in the field and in
the most adverse circumstances. Yielding to the temptations of a false
pride and forgetting that he did not possess the resources of private
fortune, he indulged in the pleasures of a sumptuous table and
expensive equipage, and soon swelled his debts to an amount which it
was impossible for him to discharge. Unmindful of his military
character, he engaged in speculations which were unfortunate, and with
the hope of immense profits took shares in privateers which were
unsuccessful. His claims against the United States were great and he
looked to them for the means of extricating himself from the
embarrassments in which his indiscretions had involved him; but the
commissioners to whom his accounts were referred for settlement had
reduced them considerably, and on his appeal from their decision to
Congress, a committee reported that the sum allowed by the
commissioners was more than he was entitled to receive.

He was charged with various acts of extortion on the citizens of
Philadelphia, and with peculating on the public funds. [3]

Not the less soured by these multiplied causes of irritation, from the
reflection that they were attributable to his own follies and vices, he
gave full scope to his resentments, and indulged himself in expressions
of angry reproach against what he termed the ingratitude of his
country, which provoked those around him, and gave great offense to
Congress. Having become peculiarly odious to the government of
Pennsylvania, the executive of that State (President Reed, formerly aid
to Washington) exhibited formal charges against him to Congress, who
directed that he should be arrested and brought before a court-martial.
His trial was concluded late in January, 1779, and he was sentenced to
be reprimanded by the Commander-in-Chief. This sentence was approved by
Congress and carried into execution. [4]

From the time the sentence against him was approved, if not sooner, his
proud unprincipled spirit revolted from the cause of his country and
determined him to seek an occasion to make the objects of his
resentment the victims of his vengeance.

Turning his eyes on West Point as an acquisition which would give value
to treason and inflict a mortal wound on his former friends, he sought
the command of that fortress for the purpose of gratifying both his
avarice and his hate.

To New York the safety of West Point was peculiarly interesting, and in
that State the reputation of Arnold was particularly high. To its
delegation he addressed himself; and one of its members had written a
letter to Washington, suggesting doubts respecting the military
character of General Robert Howe, to whom its defense was then
entrusted, and recommending Arnold for that service. This request was
not forgotten. Some short time afterward General Schuyler mentioned to
Washington a letter he had received from Arnold intimating his wish to
join the army, but stating his inability, in consequence of his wounds,
to perform the active duties of the field. Washington observed that, as
there was a prospect of a vigorous campaign he should be gratified with
the aid of General Arnold--that so soon as the operations against New
York should commence, he designed to draw his whole force into the
field, leaving even West Point to the care of invalids and a small
garrison of militia. Recollecting, however, the former application of a
member of Congress respecting this post, he added that "if, with this
previous information, that situation would be more agreeable to him
than a command in the field, his wishes should certainly be indulged."

This conversation being communicated to Arnold, he caught eagerly at
the proposition, though without openly discovering any solicitude on
the subject, and in the beginning of August (1780) repaired to camp,
where he renewed the solicitations which had before been made
indirectly.

At this juncture Clinton embarked on an expedition he meditated against
Rhode Island, and Washington was advancing on New York. He offered
Arnold the left wing of the army, which he declined under the pretexts
mentioned in his letter to Schuyler.

Incapable of suspecting a man who had given such distinguished proofs
of courage and patriotism, Washington was neither alarmed at his
refusal to embrace so splendid an opportunity of recovering the favor
of his countrymen nor at the embarrassment accompanying that refusal.
Pressing the subject no further, he assented to the request which had
been made and invested Arnold with the command of West Point. Previous
to his soliciting this station Arnold had, in a letter to Colonel
Robinson, of the British army, signified his change of principles, and
his wish to restore himself to the favor of his prince by some signal
proof of his repentance. This letter opened the way to a correspondence
with Clinton, the immediate object of which, after obtaining the
appointment he had solicited, was to concert the means of delivering
the important post he commanded to the British general.

Major John Andr, an aide-de-camp of Clinton, and adjutant-general of
the British army, was selected as the person to whom the maturing of
Arnold's treason, and the arrangements for its execution should be
entrusted. A correspondence was carried on between them under a
mercantile disguise in the feigned names of Gustavus and Anderson; and
at length, to facilitate their communications, the Vulture,
sloop-of-war, moved up the North river and took a station convenient
for the purpose, but not so near as to excite suspicion.

The time when Washington met Rochambeau at Hartford was selected for
the final adjustment of the plan, and as a personal interview was
deemed necessary Andr came up the river and went on board the Vulture.
The house of a Mr. Smith, without the American posts, was appointed for
the interview, and to that place both parties repaired in the
night--Andr being brought under a pass for John Anderson in a boat
dispatched from the shore. While the conference was yet unfinished,
daylight approached, and to avoid discovery Arnold proposed that Andr
should remain concealed until the succeeding night. They continued
together during the day, and when, in the following night, his return
to the Vulture was proposed, the boatmen refused to carry him because
she had shifted her station during the day, in consequence of a gun
which was moved to the shore without the knowledge of Arnold and
brought to bear upon her. This embarrassing circumstance reduced him to
the necessity of endeavoring to reach New York by land. To accomplish
this purpose, he reluctantly yielded to the urgent representations of
Arnold, and laying aside his regimentals, which he had hitherto worn
under a surtout, put on a plain suit of clothes and received a pass
from Arnold, authorizing him, under the name of John Anderson, to
proceed on the public service to White Plains or lower if he thought
proper.

With this permit he had passed all the guards and posts on the road
unsuspected and was proceeding to New York in perfect security, when
one of three militiamen who [5]

[missing text]

night, and the other troops lay on the field of battle with their arms
in their hands. Washington passed the night in his cloak in the midst
of his soldiers.
The British employed the early part of the morning in removing their
wounded, and about midnight marched away in such silence that their
retreat was not perceived until day.

As it was certain that they must gain the high grounds about Middletown
before they could be overtaken, as the face of the country afforded no
prospect of opposing their embarkation, and as the battle already
fought had terminated in a manner to make a general impression
favorable to the American arms, Washington decided to relinquish the
pursuit. Leaving a detachment to hover about the British rear, the main
body of the army moved towards the Hudson.

Washington was highly gratified with the conduct of his troops in this
action. Their behavior, he said, after recovering from the first
surprise occasioned by the unexpected retreat of the advanced corps,
could not be surpassed. Wayne he particularly mentioned, and spoke of
the artillery in terms of high praise.

The loss of the Americans in the battle of Monmouth was 8 officers and
61 privates killed, and about 160 wounded. Among the slain were
Lieutenant-Colonel Bonner, of Pennsylvania, and Major Dickinson, of
Virginia, both of whom were much regretted. One hundred and thirty were
missing, but a considerable number of these afterward rejoined their
regiments.

In his official letter, Sir Henry Clinton states his dead and missing
at 4 officers and 184 privates; his wounded, at 16 officers and 154
privates. This account, so far as it respects the dead, cannot be
correct, as 4 officers and 245 privates were buried on the field by
persons appointed for the purpose, who made their report to Washington;
and some few were afterward found, so as to increase the number to
nearly 300. The uncommon heat of the day proved fatal to several on
both sides.

As usual, when a battle has not been decisive, both parties claimed the
victory. In the early part of the day the advantage was certainly with
the British; in the latter part it may be pronounced with equal
certainty to have been with the Americans. They maintained their
ground, repulsed the enemy, were prevented only by the night and by the
retreat of the hostile army from renewing the action, and suffered less
in killed and wounded than their adversaries.

It is true that Sir Henry Clinton effected what he states to have been
his principal object--the safety of his baggage. But when it is
recollected that the American officers had decided against hazarding an
action, that this advice must have trammeled the conduct and
circumscribed the views of Washington, he will be admitted to have
effected no inconsiderable object in giving the American arms that
appearance of superiority which was certainly acquired by this
engagement.

Independent of the loss sustained in the action, the British army was
considerably weakened in its march from Philadelphia to New York. About
100 prisoners were made, and near 1,000 soldiers, chiefly foreigners,
deserted while passing through Jersey. Many of the soldiers had formed
attachments in Philadelphia, which occasioned their desertion.
Clinton's whole loss, including killed, wounded, prisoners, and
deserters, amounted to at least 2,000 men.

The conduct of Lee was generally disapproved. As, however, he had
possessed a large share of the confidence and good opinion of the
Commander-in-Chief, it

[missing text]

were employed between the lines of the two armies, springing suddenly
from his covert into the road, seized the reins of his bridle and
stopped his horse. Losing his accustomed self possession, Andr,
instead of producing the pass from Arnold, asked the man hastily where
he belonged. He replied, "To below," a term implying that he was from
New York. "And so," said Andr, not suspecting deception, "am I." He
then declared himself to be a British officer on urgent business, and
begged that he might not be detained. The appearance of the other
militiamen disclosed his mistake too late to correct it. He offered a
purse of gold and a valuable watch, with tempting promises of ample
reward from his government if they would, permit him to escape; but his
offers were rejected, and his captors proceeded to search him. They
found concealed in his stockings, in Arnold's handwriting, papers
containing all the information which could be important respecting West
Point. When carried before Lieutenant-Colonel Jameson, the officer
commanding the scouting parties on the lines, he maintained his assumed
character and requested Jameson to inform his commanding officer that
Anderson was taken. Jameson dispatched an express with this
communication. On receiving it, Arnold comprehended the full extent of
his danger, and flying from well-merited punishment took refuge on
board the Vulture.

When sufficient time for the escape of Arnold was supposed to have
elapsed, Andr, no longer effecting concealment, acknowledged himself
to be the adjutant-general of the British army. Jameson, seeking to
correct the mischief of his indiscreet communication to Arnold,
immediately dispatched a packet to the Commander-in-Chief containing
the papers which had been discovered, with a letter from Andr relating
the manner of his capture and accounting for the disguise he had
assumed.

The express was directed to meet the Commander-in-Chief, who was then
on his return from Hartford, but, taking different roads, they missed
each other, and a delay attended the delivery of the papers, which
ensured the escape of Arnold.

Washington, with Generals Lafayette and Knox, had turned from the
direct route in order to visit a redoubt. Colonels Hamilton and
M'Henry, the aides-de-camp of Washington and Lafayette, went forward to
request Mrs. Arnold not to wait breakfast. Arnold received Andr's
billet in their presence. He turned pale, left them suddenly, called
his wife, communicated the intelligence to her, and left her in a
swoon, without the knowledge of Hamilton and M'Henry. Mounting the
horse of his aide-de-camp, which was ready saddled, and directing him
to inform Washington on his arrival that Arnold was gone to receive him
at West Point, he gained the river shore, and was conveyed in a canoe
to the Vulture.

Washington, on his arrival, was informed that Arnold awaited him at
West Point. Taking it for granted that this step had been taken to
prepare for his reception he proceeded thither without entering the
house, and was surprised to find that Arnold was not arrived. On
returning to the quarters of that officer he received Jameson's
dispatch which disclosed the whole mystery.

Every precaution was immediately taken for the security of West Point,
after which the attention of the Commander-in-Chief was turned to
Andr. A board of general officers, of which General Greene was
president, and Lafayette and Steuben were members, was called, to
report a precise state of his case, and to determine the character in
which he was to be considered, and the punishment to which he was
liable.

The frankness and magnanimity with which Andr had conducted himself
from the time of his appearance in his real character had made a very
favorable impression on all those with whom he had held any
intercourse. From this cause he experienced every mark of indulgent
attention which was compatible with his situation, and, from a sense of
justice as well as of delicacy, was informed, on the opening of the
examination that he was at liberty not to answer any interrogatory
which might embarrass his own feelings. But, as if only desirous to
rescue his character from imputations which he dreaded more than death,
he confessed everything material to his own condemnation, but would
divulge nothing which might involve others.

The board reported the essential facts which had appeared, with their
opinion that Major Andr was a spy and ought to suffer death. The
execution of this sentence was ordered to take place on the day
succeeding that on which it was pronounced.

Superior to the terrors of death, but dreading disgrace, Andr was
deeply affected by the mode of execution which the laws of war decree
to persons in his situation. He wished to die like a soldier not as a
criminal. To obtain a mitigation of his sentence in this respect he
addressed a letter to Washington, replete with the feelings of a man of
sentiment and honor. But the occasion required that the example should
make its full impression, and this request could not be granted. He
encountered his fate with composure and dignity, and his whole conduct
interested the feelings of all who witnessed it.

The general officers lamented the sentence which the usages of war
compelled them to pronounce, and never perhaps did the Commander-in-
Chief obey with more reluctance the stern mandates of duty and policy.
The sympathy excited among the American officers by his fate was as
universal as it is unusual on such occasions, and proclaims alike the
merit of him who suffered, and the humanity of those who inflicted
the punishment.

Great exertions were made by Sir Henry Clinton, to whom Andr was
particularly dear, first, to have him considered as protected by a flag
of truce, and afterward as a prisoner of war.

Even Arnold had the hardihood to interpose. After giving a certificate
of facts tending, as he supposed, to exculpate the prisoner, exhausting
his powers of reasoning on the case, and appealing to the humanity of
Washington, he sought to intimidate that officer by stating the
situation of many of the most distinguished individuals of South
Carolina, who had forfeited their lives, but had hitherto been spared
through the clemency of the British general. This clemency, he said,
could no longer be extended to them should Major Andr suffer.

It may well be supposed that the interposition of Arnold could have no
influence on Washington. He caused Mrs. Arnold to be conveyed to her
husband in New York, and also transmitted his clothes and baggage, for
which he had written, but in every other respect his letters, which
were unanswered, were also unnoticed.

The night after Arnold's escape, when his letter respecting Andr was
received, the general directed one of his aides to wait on Mrs. Arnold,
who was convulsed with grief, and inform her that he had done
everything which depended on him to arrest her husband, but that, not
having succeeded, it gave him pleasure to inform her that her husband
was safe. It is honorable to the American character that, during the
effervescence of the moment, Mrs. Arnold was permitted to go to
Philadelphia to take possession of her effects, and to proceed to New
York under the protection of a flag without receiving the slightest
insult.

This treatment of Mrs. Arnold by Washington is the more remarkable for
its delicacy when we recollect that she was under very strong
suspicions at the time of being actively concerned in the treason of
her husband. Historians are still divided on the question of her guilt
or innocence.

The mingled sentiments of admiration and compassion excited in every
bosom for the unfortunate Andr, seemed to increase the detestation in
which Arnold was held. "Andr," said General Washington in a private
letter, "has met his fate with that fortitude which was to be expected
from an accomplished man and a gallant officer, but I am mistaken if at
this time Arnold is undergoing the torments of a mental hell. He wants
feeling. From some traits of his character which have lately come to my
knowledge, he seems to have been so hardened in crime, so lost to all
sense of honor and shame, that while his faculties still enable him to
continue his sordid pursuits, there will be no time for remorse."

The traits in his character above alluded to, were disclosed in a
private letter from Hamilton, who said: "This man (Arnold) is in every
sense despicable. In addition to the scene of knavery and prostitution
during his command in Philadelphia, which the late seizure of his
papers has unfolded, the history of his command at West Point is a
history of little as well as great villainies. He practiced every dirty
act of peculation, and even stooped to connections with the sutlers to
defraud the public." [6]

From motives of policy, or of respect for his engagements, Sir Henry
Clinton conferred on Arnold the commission of a brigadier-general in
the British service, which he preserved throughout the war. Yet it is
impossible that rank could have rescued him from the contempt and
detestation in which the generous, and honorable, and the brave could
not cease to hold him. It was impossible for men of this description to
bury the recollection of his being a traitor--a sordid traitor--first
the slave of his rage, then purchased with gold, and finally secured at
the expense of the blood of one of the most accomplished officers in
the British army.

His representations of the discontent of the country and of the army,
concurring with reports from other quarters, had excited the hope that
the Loyalists and the dissatisfied, allured by British gold and the
prospect of rank in the British service, would flock to his standard
and form a corps at whose head he might again display his accustomed
intrepidity. With this hope he published an address to the inhabitants
of America in which he labored to palliate his own guilt, and to
increase their dissatisfaction with the existing state of things.

This appeal to the public was followed by a proclamation addressed "To
the officers and soldiers of the Continental army, who have the real
interests of their country at heart, and who are determined to be no
longer the tools and dupes of Congress or of France."

The object of this proclamation was to induce the officers and soldiers
to desert the cause they had embraced from principle by holding up to
them the very flattering offers of the British general, and contrasting
the substantial emoluments of the British service with their present
deplorable condition. He attempted to cover this dishonorable
proposition with a decent garb, by representing the base step he
invited them to take as the only measure which could restore peace,
real liberty, and happiness to their country.

These inducements did not produce their intended effect. Although the
temper of the army might be irritated by real suffering, and by the
supposed neglect of government, no diminution of patriotism had been
produced. Through all the hardships, irritations, and vicissitudes of
the war Arnold remains the solitary instance of an American officer who
abandoned the side first embraced in this civil contest, and turned his
sword upon his former companions in arms.

In the whole course of this affair of Arnold's treason, Washington,
according to the habitually religious turn of his mind, distinctly
recognized the hand of Divine Providence. Writing to Col. John Laurens
he says: "In no instance since the commencement of the war has the
interposition of Providence appeared more remarkably conspicuous than
in the rescue of the post and garrison of West Point from Arnold's
villainous perfidy. How far he meant to involve me in the catastrophe
of this place does not appear by any indubitable evidence, and I am
rather inclined to think he did not wish to hazard the more important
object of his treachery by attempting to combine two events, the less
of which might have marred the greater. A combination of extraordinary
circumstances, an unaccountable deprivation of presence of mind in a
man of the first abilities, and the virtue of three militiamen, threw
the adjutant-general of the British forces, with full proofs of
Arnold's treachery, into our hands. But for the egregious folly, or the
bewildered conception, of Lieutenant-Colonel Jameson, who seemed lost
in astonishment and not to know what he was doing, I should undoubtedly
have got Arnold."

Arnold, however, had not yet displayed the whole of his character.
Savage revenge and ruthless cruelty were yet to become apparent in his
conduct as an officer in the British service. It seems to have been the
design of Providence that Americans, in all ages, should learn to
detest treason by seeing it exhibited in all its hideous deformity, in
the person of "ARNOLD, THE TRAITOR." [7]

1. Footnote: While Washington was in winter quarters at Morristown, he
requested Congress to send a committee to the camp, as had been
previously done at Valley Forge, for the purpose of giving effect to
the arrangements for the ensuing campaign, and drawing more
expeditiously from the States their respective quotas of soldiers and
supplies. General Schuyler, who had retired from the army and was then
in Congress, was a member of this committee. He rendered essential
service at this time by his judgment and experience. The committee
remained in camp between two and three months.

2. Footnote: It is pleasant to know that Mrs. Washington was at the head
of this movement. Dr. Spencer says: "In all parts of the country the women
displayed great zeal and activity, particularly in providing clothing for
the soldiers. In Philadelphia they formed a society, at the head of which
was Martha Washington, wife of the Commander-in-Chief. This lady was as
prudent in private affairs as her husband was in public. She alone
presided over their domestic finances, and provided for their common
household. Thus it was owing to the talents and virtues of his wife, that
Washington could give himself wholly to the dictates of that patriotism
which this virtuous pair mutually shared and reciprocally invigorated.
Mrs. Washington, Mrs. Reed, Mrs. Bache, the daughter of Dr. Franklin,
with the other ladies who had formed the society, themselves subscribed
considerable sums for the public; and having exhausted their own means,
they exerted their influence, and went from house to house to stimulate
the liberality of others."

3. Footnote: While these charges were hanging over his head, Arnold
courted and married Miss Shippen, a young lady, not yet eighteen, the
daughter of Mr. Edward Shippen, of Philadelphia.

4. Footnote: "Our service,"--such were his words,--"is the chastest of
all. Even the shadow of a fault tarnishes the lustre of our finest
achievements. The least inadvertence may rob us of the public favor, so
hard to be acquired. I reprimand you for having forgotten, that in
proportion as you had rendered yourself formidable to our enemies, you
should have been guarded and temperate in your deportment toward your
fellow-citizens.

"Exhibit anew those noble qualities which have placed you on the list of
our most valued commanders. I will myself furnish you, as far as it may
be in my power, with opportunities of gaining the esteem of your
country."

5. Footnote: The names of these militiamen were John Paulding, David
Williams, and Isaac Van Wart.

6. Footnote: "I am inclined to believe that Arnold was a finished
scoundrel from early manhood to his grave; nor do I believe that he had
any real and true-hearted attachment to the Whig cause. He fought as a
mere adventurer, and took sides from a calculation of personal gain,
and chances of plunder and advancement."--_Sabine's "American
Loyalists_," p. 131.

7. Footnote: On the third of November it was resolved, "That Congress
have a high sense of the virtuous and patriotic conduct of John
Paulding, David Williams, and Isaac Van Wart; in testimony whereof,
ordered, that each of them receive annually $200 in specie, or an
equivalent in the current money of these States, during life, and that
the Board of War be directed to procure for each of them a silver
medal, on one side of which shall be a shield, with this
inscription--FIDELITY: and on the other, the following motto--VINCIT
AMOR PATIAE, and forward them to the Commander-in-Chief, who is
requested to present the same, with a copy of this resolution, and the
thanks of Congress for their fidelity, and the eminent service they
have rendered their country."




CHAPTER XIX.


OPERATIONS AT THE SOUTH. 1780.


Although Washington was aware that the British were aiming at the
conquest of the southern States he still considered the middle States
to be the main theater of war, and felt the necessity of reserving his
main force for the defense of that portion of the Union. He did not
believe that the possession by the British of a few posts in the South
would contribute much to the purposes of the war, and he sent no more
troops to that part of the country than he could conveniently spare
from the main army. Writing to Lafayette in Paris, after the fall of
Savannah (8th March, 1779), he says: "Nothing of importance has
happened since you left us except the enemy's invasion of Georgia and
possession of its capital, which, though it may add something to their
supplies on the score of provisions, will contribute very little to the
brilliancy of their arms; for, like the defenseless Island of St.
Lucia, [1] it only required the appearance of force to effect the
conquest of it, as the whole militia of the State did not exceed 1,200
men, and many of them disaffected. General Lincoln is assembling a
force to dispossess them, and my only fear is that he will precipitate
the attempt before he is fully prepared for the execution."

As early as September 1778, General Lincoln had been appointed to
supersede Gen. Robert Howe in the command of the southern army. Lincoln
had baffled the attempts of General Prevost on South Carolina, and had
commanded the American forces in the unsuccessful siege of Savannah,
acting in concert with D'Estaing. He was still in command at Charleston
when Clinton, whose departure from New York on an expedition to the
South we have already noticed, made his descent on South Carolina. In
this command at Charleston General Lincoln unfortunately labored under
great disadvantages and discouragements.

The failure of the attack on Savannah (in which bombardment 1,000 lives
were lost, Count Pulaski, the Polish patriot, was mortally wounded, and
the simple-hearted Sergeant Jasper died grasping the banner presented
to his regiment at Fort Moultrie), with the departure of the French
fleet from the coast of America, presented a gloomy prospect and was
the forerunner of many calamities to the southern States. By their
courage and vigor the northern provinces had repelled the attacks of
the enemy and discouraged future attempts against them. And although
having bravely defended Sullivan's Island, in 1776, the southern
colonists were latterly less successful than their victorious brethren
in the North. The rapid conquest of Georgia and the easy march of
Prevost to the very gates of Charleston had a discouraging effect and
naturally rendered the southern section vulnerable to attack. In the
North the military operations of 1778 and 1779 had produced no
important results, and, therefore, the late transactions in Georgia and
South Carolina more readily attracted the attention of the British
Commander-in-Chief to those States.

Savannah, the chief town of Georgia, as we have already seen, was in
the hands of the British troops, and had been successfully defended
against a combined attack of the French and Americans, and therefore
Sir Henry Clinton resolved to gain possession of Charleston also, the
capital of South Carolina, which would give him the command of all the
southern parts of the Union. Having made the necessary preparations he
sailed, as we have seen, from New York on the 26th of December 1779,
under convoy of Admiral Arbuthnot, but did not arrive at Savannah till
the end of January (1780). The voyage was tempestuous; some of the
transports and victuallers were lost, others shattered, and a few taken
by the American cruisers. Most of the cavalry and draught horses
perished. One of the transports, which had been separated from the
fleet and captured by the Americans, was brought into Charleston on the
23d of January, and the prisoners gave the first certain notice of the
destination of the expedition.

As soon as it was known that an armament was fitting out at New York
many suspected that the southern States were to be assailed, and such
was the unhappy posture of American affairs at that time, that no
sanguine expectations of a successful resistance could be reasonably
entertained. The magazines of the Union were everywhere almost empty,
and Congress had neither money nor credit to replenish them. The army
at Morristown, under the immediate orders of Washington, was
threatened, as we have seen, with destruction by want of provisions,
and consequently could neither act with vigor in the North, nor send
reinforcements to the South.

General Lincoln, though aware of his danger,--was not in a condition to
meet it. On raising the siege of Savannah he had sent the troops of
Virginia to Augusta; those of South Carolina were stationed partly at
Sheldoa, opposite Port Royal, between thirty and forty miles north from
Savannah, and partly at Fort Moultrie, which had been allowed to fall
into decay; those of North Carolina were with General Lincoln at
Charleston. All these detachments formed but a feeble force, and to
increase it was not easy, for the Colonial paper money was in a state
of great depreciation; the militia, worn out by a harassing service,
were reluctant again to repair to the standards of their country, and
the brave defense of Savannah had inspired the people of the southern
provinces with intimidating notions of British valor. The patriotism of
many of the Colonists had evaporated; they contemplated nothing but the
hardships and dangers of the contest and recoiled from the protracted
struggle.

In these discouraging circumstances Congress recommended the people of
South Carolina to arm their slaves, a measure to which they were
generally averse; although, had they been willing to comply with the
recommendation, arms could not have been procured. Washington had, as
we have already seen, ordered the Continental troops of North Carolina
and Virginia to march to Charleston, and four American frigates, two
French ships of war; the one mounting twenty-six and the other eighteen
guns, with the marine force of South Carolina under Commodore Whipple,
were directed to cooperate in the defense of the town. No more aid
could be expected; yet, under these unpromising circumstances, a full
house of assembly resolved to defend Charleston to the last extremity.

Although Clinton had embarked at New York on the 26th of December,
1779, yet, as his voyage had been stormy and tedious, and as some time
had been necessarily spent at Savannah, it was the 11th of February,
1780, before he landed on John's Island, thirty miles south from
Charleston. Had he even then marched rapidly upon the town he would
probably have entered it without much opposition, but mindful of his
repulse in 1776 his progress was marked by a wary circumspection. He
proceeded by the islands of St. John and St. James, while part of his
fleet advanced to blockade the harbor. He sent for a reinforcement from
New York, ordered General Prevost to join him with 1,100 men from
Savannah, and neglected nothing that could insure success.

General Lincoln was indefatigable in improving the time which the slow
progress of the royal army afforded him. Six hundred slaves were
employed in constructing or repairing the fortifications of the town;
vigorous though not very successful measures were taken to bring the
militia into the field; and all the small detachments of regular troops
were assembled in the capital. The works which had been begun on
Charleston Neck when General Prevost threatened the place were resumed.
A chain of redoubts, lines, and batteries was formed between the Cooper
and Ashley rivers. In front of each flank the works were covered by
swamps extending from the rivers; those opposite swamps were connected
by a canal; between the canal and the works were two strong rows of
abattis, and a ditch double picketed, with deep holes at short
distances, to break the columns in case of an assault. Toward the
water, works were thrown up at every place where a landing was
practicable. The vessels intended to defend the bar of the harbor
having been found insufficient for that purpose, their guns were taken
out and planted on the ramparts, and the seamen were stationed at the
batteries. One of the ships, which was not dismantled, was placed in
the Cooper river to assist the batteries, and several vessels were sunk
at the mouth of the channel to prevent the entrance of the royal fleet.
Lincoln intended that the town should be defended until such
reinforcements would arrive from the North as, together with the
militia of the State, would compel Clinton to raise the siege. As the
regular troops in the town did not exceed 1,400, a council of war found
that the garrison was too weak to spare detachments to obstruct the
progress of the royal army. Only a small party of cavalry and some
light troops were ordered to hover on its left flank and observe its
motions.

While these preparations for defense were going on in Charleston the
British army was cautiously but steadily advancing toward the town. As
he proceeded Clinton erected forts and formed magazines at proper
stations, and was careful to secure his communications with those forts
and with the sea. All the horses of the British army had perished in
the tedious and stormy voyage from New York to Savannah, but on landing
in South Carolina Clinton procured others to mount his dragoons, whom
he formed into a light corps, under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel
Tarleton. That officer was extremely active in covering the left wing
of the army and in dispersing the militia. In one of his excursions he
fell in with Lieut.-Col. William Washington, who commanded the remnant
of Baylor's regiment, and who beat him back with loss.

On the 20th of March (1780) the British fleet, under Admiral Arbuthnot,
consisting of 1 ship of 50 guns, 2 of 44 each, 4 of 32 each, and an
armed vessel, passed the bar in front of Rebellion Road, and anchored
in Five Fathom Hole.

It being now thought impossible to prevent the fleet from passing Fort
Moultrie, and taking such stations in Cooper river as would enable them
to rake the batteries on shore, and to close that communication between
the town and country, the plan of defense was once more changed, and
the armed vessels were carried into the mouth of Cooper river, and sunk
in a line from the town to Shute's Folly.

This was the critical moment for evacuating the town. The loss of the
harbor rendered the defense of the place, if not desperate, so
improbable, that the hope to maintain it could not have been rationally
entertained by a person who was not deceived by the expectation of aids
much more considerable than were actually received.

When this state of things was communicated to Washington by
Lieutenant-Colonel Laurens he said in reply: "The impracticability of
defending the bar, I fear, amounts to the loss of the town and
garrison. At this distance it is impossible to judge for you. I have
the greatest confidence in General Lincoln's prudence, but it really
appears to me that the propriety of attempting to defend the town
depended on the probability of defending the bar, and that when this
ceased, the attempt ought to have been relinquished. In this, however,
I suspend a definitive judgment, and wish you to consider what I say as
confidential." Unfortunately this letter did not arrive in time to
influence the conduct of the besieged.

On the 4th of April (1780), Admiral Arbuthnot, taking advantage of a
strong southerly wind and a flowing tide, passed Fort Moultrie [2] and
anchored just without reach of the guns of Charleston. The fort kept up
a heavy fire on the fleet while passing which did some damage to the
ships and killed or wounded twenty-seven men.

On the 29th of March the royal army reached Ashley river and crossed it
ten miles above the town without opposition, the garrison being too
weak to dispute the passage. Sir Henry Clinton having brought over his
artillery, baggage, and stores marched down Charleston Neck, and on the
night of the 1st of April, broke ground at the distance of 800 yards
from the American works. The fortifications of Charleston were
constructed under the direction of Mr. Laumoy, a French engineer of
reputation in the American service, and, although not calculated to
resist a regular siege, were by no means contemptible; and Clinton made
his approaches in due form. Meanwhile the garrison received a
reinforcement of 700 Continentals under General Woodford, and, after
this accession of strength, amounted to somewhat more than 2,000
regular troops, besides 1,000 militia of North Carolina, and the
citizens of Charleston.

On the 9th of April (1780) Clinton finished his first parallel, forming
an oblique line between the two rivers, from 600 to 1,100 yards from
the American works, and mounted his guns in battery. He then, jointly
with the admiral, summoned Lincoln to surrender the town. Lincoln's
answer was modest and firm: "Sixty days," said he, "have passed since
it has been known that your intentions against this town were hostile,
in which time was afforded to abandon it, but duty and inclination
point to the propriety of supporting it to the last extremity."

On receiving this answer Clinton immediately opened his batteries, and
his fire was soon felt to be superior to that of the besieged. Hitherto
the communication with the country north of the Cooper was open and a
post was established to prevent the investiture of the town on that
side. After the summons, Governor Rutledge, with half of his council,
left the town for the purpose of exercising the functions of the
executive government in the State, and in the hope of being able to
bring a large body of the militia to act on the rear or left flank of
the besieging army, but the militia were as little inclined to embody
themselves as to enter the town.

For the purpose of maintaining the communication with the country north
of the Cooper, of checking the British foragers, and of protecting
supplies on their way to the town, the American cavalry, under General
Huger, had passed the river and taken post at Monk's Corner, thirty
miles above Charleston. Posts of militia were established between the
Cooper and Santee and at a ferry on the last-named river, where boats
were ordered to be collected in order to facilitate the passage of the
garrison, if it should be found necessary to evacuate the town. But
Clinton defeated all these precautions. For as the possession of the
harbor rendered the occupation of the forts to the southward
unnecessary, he resolved to call in the troops which had been employed
in that quarter, to close the communication of the garrison with the
country to the northward, and to complete the investiture of the town.
For these purposes, as the fleet was unable to enter the Cooper river,
he deemed it necessary to dislodge the American posts and employed
Tarleton to beat up the quarters of General Huger's cavalry at Monk's
Corner. Conducted during the night by a negro slave through
unfrequented paths, Tar