quently that to fast would still be necessary.

Their final resolve was that, the moment Mr. Clifton should have given
Mac Fane the bond, they would then delay no longer: and, from the
threats which he vaunted of having used, he expected the bond to be
given the next day, when Mr. Clifton was to come to the keeper's, if I
understood them rightly, after his visit to Anna St. Ives.

This idea again conjured up torturing images, and fears which no
efforts I have been able to make can entirely appease.

I began this narrative the first day on which I found my life was in
danger, and have continued it to this time, which is now the twelfth
day of my confinement. The desire which the keeper expresses to possess
himself of the money convinces me of my great jeopardy. He was eager to
have committed the murder last night, during the last conversation I
heard. That I should escape with life from the hands of these wicked
men is but little probable; but I will not desert myself; I will not
forward an act of blood by timidity. Were I to destroy the bank-bills,
and to tell them they were destroyed, I should not be believed. I mean
to try another expedient--I hear them in the keeper's room!

These are the last words I shall ever write. They are determined on
immediate murder--But I will sell my life dearly.




LETTER CXXVI

_Anna Wenbourne St. Ives to Louisa Clifton_

Oh my friend! I am escaped! Have broken my prison and am sitting now--I
cannot tell you where, but in a place of safety. I have been thus
successful by the aid of Laura.

It is now four days since I saw your brother. Lulled to security by the
peaceable manner in which I had submitted to confinement, and imagining
Laura to be still in the interest of Mr. Clifton, though this silly
girl is now a very sincere penitent, the old woman began to indulge her
in still greater liberties. I warned Laura very seriously against any
precipitate attempts, for I saw it was probable this incautiousness
would increase, provided it were encouraged.

No good opportunity offered till this morning, when Laura was suffered
to take the key of my prison chamber, and let herself in and out.

The moment she told me of it I enquired what other obstacles there
were. Laura said we might get into the yard, but no further, for there
was a high wall which no woman could climb. I asked her if she thought
a man could climb it? She answered, yes, she had seen men do such
things, but she could not think how.

The absence of Mr. Clifton for so long a time, without releasing me
from my imprisonment, made me in hourly expectation of his return. I
therefore did not stay to hesitate, but desired Laura to steal down
stairs before me, and open the door, for that I was determined to
attempt the wall.

Laura was terrified at the fear of being left behind, for she said she
never could climb it. 'Alas! What was to become of her?'--I told her
she should have thought of consequences long ago; but that she might be
certain I would not desert her: on the contrary, I would go to the
first house I could find and send her relief, if I should happen to
climb a wall which she could not. Though, I likewise added, it was
weakness and folly to suppose that men were better able to climb walls
than women, or that she could not follow, if I could lead.

The assurance of relief in part quieted her fears: she opened the first
door, stole down to the second, I followed, she unlocked it, and we
both got into the yard.

The wall as she said was high and not easily climbed; but I had little
time for reflection: the old woman saw us through the window, and was
coming.

To this wall there was a gate, equally high, but with a handle to shut,
ledges running across, and two or three cracked places that afforded
hold for the hand. You and I, Louisa, have often discoursed on the
excellence of active courage, and the much greater efforts of which
both sexes are capable than either of them imagine. I climbed the
gate with great speed and little I difficulty.

The old woman was already in the yard, and Laura stood wondering to see
me on the top of the wall, fearing I should now break my neck in
getting down again, and still in greater terror at the approach of the
old woman. I made some attempt to persuade the latter to give Laura her
liberty; but our turnkey is very deaf, and instead of listening to me
she ran for some offensive weapon to beat me off the wall: so, once
more assuring Laura I would send her immediate aid, and keeping hold of
the gate post with my hand, I let myself down and with very little
hurt.

I proceeded along a narrow lane: I knew not in what direction, but
hurried forward in great haste; not only from the possibility of being
pursued, but because it began to blow and rain very heavily. In less
than ten minutes I came to a house: I rang, a man came to the gate, and
I readily gained admission. I was shewn into the room where I am now
writing, and another person was sent to me, who perhaps is the master
of the house, though from his appearance I should rather suppose the
contrary. I asked first if it were possible to get a coach; and he
enquired where I came from? I told him, from a house at a considerable
distance, in the same lane, where I had been forcibly shut up, and
where my maid still was, whom I wished to have released; adding I would
well reward any two men, by whom it might easily be effected, if they
would go and help her over the wall.

He listened very attentively, stood some time to consider, and then
replied there was no coach to be procured within a mile of the place,
but that a man should go for one; and that I might make myself easy
concerning the young woman (Laura) for she should soon join me. The
look and manner of the man did not please me, but the case was urgent,
the storm increasing, and I in want of shelter and protection.

I then recollected it would perhaps be safest to write immediately to
Grosvenor-Street, to prevent surprise as well as to guard against
accidents, and I asked if he could furnish me with a sheet of paper and
pen and ink. He answered he feared not, but called a boy, and said to
him--'Did not I see you with some writing paper the other day?' The boy
answered yes; and he bade him go and fetch it, and bring me the pen and
ink.

He then left me, and the boy presently returned, with a sheet of paper,
an old ink-bottle, and a very indifferent pen. The boy looked at me
earnestly, and then examined the pen, saying it was a very bad one, but
he would fetch me a better.

The man who was just gone had told me that nobody could be spared, to
go as far as I required, in less than an hour at the soonest; I
therefore have time to write at length.

I think there can be little doubt but that my Louisa is long before
this in Grosvenor-Street. I would not wish Sir Arthur to be informed
too suddenly, I will therefore direct to her at a venture; but for fear
of accidents will add to the direction--'If Miss Clifton be not there,
to be opened and read by Mrs. Clarke.'--In the present alarmed state of
the family this will ensure its being opened, even if both my good
friends should be absent.

Good heaven! What does this mean?--I have just risen to see if the
little boy were within call, and find the door is locked upon me!

I have been listening!--I hear stern and loud voices!--I fear I have
been very inconsiderate!--I know not what to think!

Where am I?--Oh, Louisa, I am seized with terror! Looking into the
table-drawer at which I am sitting, in search of wafers, I have found
my own letter; opened, dirtied, and worn! Alas! You know of no such
letter!--Again I am addressing myself to the winds!--The very fatal
letter in which I mentioned the eight thousand pounds!--Where am I,
where am I?--In what is all this to end?

All is lost!--Flight is hopeless!--The very man who headed the ruffians
that seized me has just walked into the room, placed himself with his
back against the door, surveyed me, satisfied himself who it was, then
warily left me, locked the door, and called a man to guard it!--Oh my
incautious folly!

I am in the dwelling of demons!--I never heard such horrible
oaths!--Surely there is some peculiar mischief working!--The noise
increases, with unheard-of blasphemy!

Merciful Heaven! I hear the voice of Frank!--What is doing?--Must I
remain here?--Oh misery!----What cries!




LETTER CXXVII

_Coke Clifton to Guy Fairfax_

_London, Dover Street_

All is over, Fairfax!--I am just brought from the scene of blood!--You
see this is not my hand-writing--My hand must never write more--But I
would employ the little strength I have, in relating 'the last scene of
this eventful history'. My sister is my amanuensis. These surgical
meddlers issued their edict that I should not speak; but they found I
could be as obstinate as themselves: I would not suffer a probe to be
drawn at me till I had written, for when they begin I expect it will
soon be over.

I remember I ended my last at the very minute I was about to mount my
horse. It was a wintery day. The rain fell in sheets, and the wind
roared in my face. My pistols were charged and locked in my pocket.

I rode full speed, but I set off too late! When I approached the
madhouse, I heard the most piercing shrieks and cries of murder!--They
mingled with the storm, in wild and appalling horror!--I rang
violently at the bell!... A ready and an eager hand soon flew to open
the gate--It was Anna St. Ives!--A boy shewed her the way--It was her
cries and his, mingled with the blasphemies of the wretches above,
which I had heard!

Her first word again was murder!--'Fly! Save him, save him!'

I rushed forward--The noise above stairs was dreadful--I blundered and
missed the stairs, but the terrified boy had run after me to shew me. I
heard two pistols fire as I ascended--The horror that struck my heart
was inconceivable!--A fellow armed with a bludgeon was standing to
guard the door. My pistols were unlocked and ready: I presented and
bade him give way--He instantly obeyed--I made the lock fly and
entered!--The first object that struck my sight was Frank, besmeared
with blood, a discharged pistol in his hand, defending himself against
a fellow aiming blows at him with a bludgeon, Mac Fane hewing at him
with a cutlass, and the keeper, who had just been shot, expiring at his
feet!

I fired at Mac Fane--My shot took place, though not so effectually but
that he turned round, made a stab at me, and pierced the abdomen almost
to the spine. But he had met his fate; and the return he made was most
welcome!--He fell, and the remaining antagonists of Frank immediately
fled.

Frank is living, but dreadfully hacked by the villain Mac Fane. They
tell me his life is safe, and that his wounds are deep, but not
dangerous. Perhaps they mean to deceive me. If so their folly is
extreme, and their pity to me ill placed. I well know I deserve no
pity.

With respect to myself, my little knowledge of surgery teaches me that
a wound so violent, made with a cutlass in such a part, must be mortal.
But mortality to me is a blessing. To live would indeed be misery.
Torments never yet were imagined equal to those I have for some time
endured: but, though I have lived raving, I do not mean to die canting.
Take this last adieu therefore, dear Fairfax, and do not because you
once esteemed me endeavour to palliate my errors. Let my letters to you
do justice to those I have injured. To have saved his life who once
saved mine, is a ray of consolation to that proud swelling heart, which
has sometimes delighted to confer, but has always turned averse from
the receiving of obligations, I would have been more circumstantial in
my narrative, were it not for the teasing kindness of my sister.

Once more, and everlastingly, adieu!

C. CLIFTON

P.S. ADDED BY LOUISA CLIFTON

As to a friend of my brother, sir, I have taken the liberty to delay
sending the letter, till his wound has been examined. The surgeons are
divided in their judgment. Two of them affirm the wound is mortal; the
third is positive that a cure is possible; especially considering the
youth and high courage of the patient, on which he particularly
insists. I dare not indulge myself too much in hope: I merely state
opinion. Neither dare I speak of my own sensations. Of the worth of a
mind like that of Mr. Clifton, you, sir, his friend and correspondent,
cannot be ignorant. The past is irrevocable; but hope always smiles on
the future. Should he recover--! Resignation becomes us, and time will
quickly relieve us from doubt.

L. CLIFTON




LETTER CXXVIII

_Anna Wenbourne St. Ives to Mrs. Wenbourne_

_Grosvenor-Street_

I return you my sincere thanks, dear madam, for your kind
congratulations; and think myself honoured by the great joy you
express, at my safety and the deliverance of Mr. Henley. I will not
attempt to describe my own feelings; they are inexpressible; but will
endeavour to obey your commands, and give you the best account I am
able of all that has befallen us.

For this purpose, I inclose the narrative written by Mr. Henley during
his confinement; and three letters addressed to my friend, Louisa, but
never sent; with a copy of a letter dictated by Mr. Clifton to his
friend, Mr. Fairfax. To these be pleased to add the following
particulars of what passed after Mr. Henley's narrative breaks off, and
the sudden interruption of my third letter by terror. Mr. Henley heard
but had no time to write their last consultation. It was the eagerness
of the keeper which overcame the reluctance of Mac Fane to the murder,
till he should have procured the bond of Mr. Clifton. The keeper was
violent: he had bargained with his two men to assist in the murder, for
fifty pounds each; and he told Mac Fane, if he would not consent, they
would proceed without him, and he should have no share of the eight
thousand pounds.

This argument had its effect: Mac Fane had some doubts relative to the
money won of Mr. Clifton; and four thousand pounds was a temptation not
to be resisted.

Mr. Henley omitted mentioning a circumstance that occurred of some
moment, because he did not know the meaning of it. Probably they had
planned it out of his hearing. The day before the attack, the keeper
returned him his watch and purse, with the same sum, but not, as Mr.
Henley thinks, the same pieces, it contained when delivered. The
purpose of this, it appears, was to make him believe the keeper a man
of his word.

On the morning of the intended murder, previous to the assault, the
keeper came up to Mr. Henley; but not into the room. He talked to him
with the usual security of his chains, and proposed that Mr. Henley
should deliver up the bank-bills, which the keeper now told him he knew
to be in his possession; with a promise that they should be returned,
as the watch and purse had been. An artifice so shallow was not likely
to impose on Mr. Henley. He had determined how to act, relative to the
bank bills, and answered it was true they were in his possession; but
that he would not deliver them to the keeping of any other. Immediately
after this repulse, the keeper, Mac Fane, and the two attendants
ascended.

The keeper (I speak after Mr. Henley) was much the most confident, and
seemed chiefly fearful that Mr. Henley should slip by them. He
therefore stationed one of his men at the outside of the door, which he
ordered him to lock and guard. Himself, Mac Fane, and the other entered
the room; the keeper and the man each with a bludgeon, and Mac Fane
with a pair of pistols and his cutlass hanging by his side.

Mr. Henley had purposely kept up a good fire, and had the bank bills in
his hand. He bade them keep off a moment, as if he wished to parley;
and they, desirous of having the bills quietly, remained where they
were. Mr. Henley then took the bills one by one, repeating the amount
of each to convince them that the whole sum was there, and then
suddenly thrust them into the fire. They all rushed forward to save
them, and this was the lucky moment on which Mr. Henley seized the two
arms of Mac Fane, who, on account of his weapons, was the principal
object, and who, intending to fire at him, in the struggle shot the
keeper. The other pistol Mr. Henley wrested from him, during which
contest it went off, but without doing mischief.

Mac Fane then drew his hanger, and made several cuts at Mr. Henley, who
was attacked on the other side by the keeper's man.

In the heat of this conflict Mr. Clifton arrived; and what then
followed, his letter will inform you.

It is necessary I should now say a word of myself, and of the small
part which I had in this very dreadful affair. And here I must remind
you of the boy, so often mentioned in Mr. Henley's narrative; for to
him, perhaps, we all owe our safety. At least, had it not been for him,
Mr. Clifton could not certainly have gained admission.

The poor fellow heard and saw enough to let him understand some strange
crime was in agitation. He has great acuteness and sensibility: he
looked at me when I first came, in a very significant manner; and would
have spoken had he dared.

The door of the room in which I was shut was both locked and bolted;
but the man that was set to guard it was wanted, for a more
blood-thirsty purpose.

I need not inform you how much my fears were alarmed, the moment I
found myself in the custody of the man by whom I had at first been
seized. But how infinitely was my terror increased when I heard the
voice of Frank, which I did very distinctly, and presently afterward of
the horror about to be committed! My shrieks were incessant! The poor
boy heard them, and though shrieking with terror almost as violent as
my own, yet had the presence of mind to come and set me free.

Mr. Clifton's ringing was heard at the same moment. The top bolt of the
gate was high, and I opened it with difficulty; but despair lent me
force. It certainly could not have been opened time enough by the boy.

Of this and the following scene, and of the agonizing sensations that
accompanied them, I will attempt no further description. I will now
only relate by what means, and whose aid, we left this house of horror.

You know, madam, with what activity my dear Louisa exerted herself, and
employed every expedient in her power. You are likewise acquainted with
the zeal of Mrs. Clarke, her niece Peggy, and the two men, her husband
and brother. Their ardour increased rather than abated.

Mr. Webb, whose watchings and efforts were incessant, saw Mac Fane step
out of a hackney-coach into the shop where Mr. Clifton lodges. This I
understand to have happened on the ninth evening of my confinement. It
was natural that this circumstance should immediately excite suspicion
and alarm. The coach was dismissed, Mac Fane remained, and Mr. Webb
continued hovering about the door, waiting in expectation of seeing him
come out, till two o'clock in the morning, but waiting in vain: after
which, concluding that he had missed him, he quitted his post.

On the morrow, by very diligent enquiry, he found out Mac Fane's
lodgings; but he had not been at home all night. The same ineffectual
search was continued during that and the next day; but, on the morning
of deliverance, Mr. Webb met a person with whom he had formerly been
acquainted, who told him of the house hired by the keeper, and
mentioned the names of his two assistants, with rumours and surmises
sufficiently dark and unintelligible, but enough to make Mr. Webb
suppose it was possible the persons he was in search of were there
confined.

The intelligence was immediately brought to Louisa and Sir Arthur, and
application as immediately made to the magistracy. Webb had obtained
very accurate information of the site of the house; and, what was more
effectual, had prevailed on his informer to lend his aid.

The relief he brought, though too late to prevent mischief, was not
wholly useless; Mr. Clifton was the first object of our care; for Mr.
Henley, though bruised, cut, and mangled has received no serious
injury. Laura was likewise sent for and relieved from her prison.
Proper conveyances were soon provided, and we all removed as fast as
possible from this scene of horror.

You may be sure, madam, we did not forget to bring the boy with us. Mr.
Henley has an affection for him, which the poor fellow very sincerely
returns; and finds himself relieved from the most miserable of
situations, and placed in the most happy.

That I may wholly acquit myself of the task I have undertaken, I must
just mention the Count de Beaunoir. He is a gentleman of the most
pleasant temper. Urbanity is his distinctive mark, for in this quality
most of his flights originate. He has thought himself my admirer, but
in reality he is the general admirer of whatever he supposes excellent.
When he was told of my being affianced to Mr. Henley, instead of
expressing chagrin, he broke into raptures at our mutual happiness, and
how much it was merited. He does not seem to understand the selfishness
of jealousy.

Perhaps, madam, you have not heard the last accounts of the physical
gentlemen, relative to Mr. Clifton. The surgeon who first gave hope is
now positive of a cure; and his opponents begin to own it is not
impossible, but they will not yet allow that Mr. Clifton is out of
danger.

The Count de Beaunoir has paid Mr. Clifton the utmost attention; he
visits him twice a day, and, according to the accounts my friend gives
me, infuses a spirit of benevolence and affection into his visits which
are highly honourable to his heart. Indeed I and Mr. Henley have
several times met him there: for you may well imagine, madam, we are
not the least attentive of Mr. Clifton's visitors. It is at present the
sole study of Mr. Henley, which way best to address himself to a heart
and understanding so capable of generous sensations, and noble
energies. There is an attachment to consistency in the human mind,
which will not admit of any sudden and absolute change; it must be
gradual: but thus much may with certainty be said, Mr. Clifton does not
at present, and I hope will never again, treat with complacency those
vindictive but erroneous notions which had so nearly proved destructive
to all. He makes no professions; but so much the better; he thinks them
the more strongly. His mind preserves its usual tone; is sometimes
disturbed even to excess, and bitterly angry, almost to phrensy, at its
own mistakes; but has lost none of those quick and powerful qualities,
by which it is so highly distinguished.

Sir Arthur, madam, has desired me to communicate a circumstance, which
I shall readily do, without the false delicacy of supposing that I am
not the proper person. It is agreed, between him and Mr. Abimelech
Henley, that the marriage between me and Mr. Frank Henley shall take
place in a month; to which I thought it my duty to assent. I am sorry,
madam, that Lord Fitz-Allen should continue to imagine his honour will
be sullied by this marriage: but I am in like manner sorry for a
thousand follies, which I daily see in the world, without having the
immediate power of correcting one of them.

A. W. ST. IVES




LETTER CXXIX

_Coke Clifton to Guy Fairfax_

_London, Dover-Street_

It is not to be endured! They drive me mad! I will not have life thus
palmed upon me! There is neither kindness nor justice in it. I will
hear no more of duty, and philanthropy, and general good! I am all
fiend!--Hell-born!--The boon companion of the foulest miscreants the
womb of sin ever vomited on earth!--The arm in arm familiar of
them!--In the face of the world!--This it is to be honourable!--I
am a man of honour, a despiser of peasants, an assertor of rank!--

Day after day, hour after hour, here I lie, rolling, ruminating on
ideas which none but demons could suggest; haunted by visions which
devils only could conjure up! And wish me to live? Where is the charity
of that? Angels though they be, they have made me miserable! I know I
have injured them; I don't deny it. Say what they will, they cannot
forgive me--Shall I ask it?--No!--Hell should not make me! I will have
no more favours; I am loaded too much already.

For it cannot be true!--Their hearts can feel no kindness for
me!--Oh!--

I have lost her!--For ever lost her!--Yet even this deep damnation I
could bear, I think I could, had I not made myself so very foul and
detestable a villain!--It is intolerable!--The rage of cannibals to
mine is patience! I could feed on human hearts; my own the first and
sweetest morsel!

Well, well!--Her I have lost; him I have injured!--Injured?--Arrogance,
outrage, contempt, blows, imprisonment, and murder!--These are the
damning injuries I have done him!--took greatness upon me; I mimicked
tyranny, and pretended to inflict large vengeance for petty
affronts!--I trusted in wiles, and imagined mind might be caught in a
net!

Lo how the adder egg of vanity can brood in its own dunghill, and hatch
itself to persecution, rape, and murder!--Lo how Guilt and Folly
couple, and engender darkness to hide their own deformity!--The picture
is mine!--Black, midnight rape, and blood red murder! A horrid but
indubitable likeness.

There are but two ways, either to live and pursue revenge, or to die
and forget it--Of the pursuit I am weary. I have had a full meal of
villany, and am glutted: its foulness is insufferable, and I turn from
it loathing. Then welcome death! Again it would have sought me, but for
their eternal officiousness. It is in vain. There are swords, pistols,
and poison still. Life has a thousand outlets: and to live, knowing
what I know and never can forget, would be rank and hateful cowardice!
I am determined. I will listen to their glosses no more. Persuasion is
vain, and soothing mockery.

Yet one act of justice I will perform before I die. Send me my
letters, Fairfax. They shall see me in my native colours!--Send them
directly!--There is consolation in the thought--They have dared to shew
letters that exposed them to persecution and malice--I will shew what
shall expose me to contempt and hatred!--Let them equal me if they
can--I am Clifton!--Inimitable in absurdity, in vice damnable!--

Take copies if you will. Proclaim me to the world! Read them in
coffee-houses, nail them up at the market cross! Let boys hoot at me,
and trulls and drabs pluck me by the beard!--What can they?--It is I,
myself, who hold the scorpion whip!--'Tis memory!--What! Envy, rage,
revenge, hatred, rape and murder, all possessing one man?--Poor
creature! Poor creature!--Pity him, Fairfax!--Pity?--Ask pity?--Despise
him! Trample on him! Spit in his face!

C. CLIFTON




LETTER CXXX

_Frank Henley to Oliver Trenchard_

_London, Grosvenor Street_

How violent and reiterated are the conflicts, between truth and error,
in every mind of ardour!--And, of all errors, the love of self is the
most rooted, the least easy to detect, and supremely difficult to
eradicate. We can pardon ourselves any thing, except a want of
self-respect; but that is intolerable.

I described, in my last,[1] the dissatisfied state of mind of Mr.
Clifton. But, while he imagined he should die and soon lose all memory
of a scene become so irksome to him, his dissatisfaction was trifling,
compared to what it is at present. Repugnant as the idea was to his
habitual feelings, still I have more than half convinced him that
suicide is an act as cowardly as it is criminal. Yet to live and face
the world, loaded as he imagines with unpardonable crimes and
everlasting ignominy, is a thing to which he knows not how to consent.
To combat this new mistake, into which he has fallen, has for some time
past been my chief employment. No common efforts could assuage the
turbulence of his tempestuous soul. Energy superior even to his own was
necessary, to subject and calm this perturbation. But, in the
simplicity of truth, this energy was easy to be found: it is from
self-distrust, confusion or cowardice, if it ever fail.

[Footnote 1: Omitted.]

I have just left him, and our conversation will give you the best
history of his mind, which is well worthy our study. I found him
verging even toward delirium, and a fever coming on, which if not
impeded might soon be fatal. He keeps his bed; but instead of lying at
his ease, he remained raised on his elbow, having just finished a
letter to his friend. Louisa had described the state of his mind, and I
resolved to catch its tone, that I might the more certainly command his
attention. Without preface, and as if continuing a chain of reasoning,
he addressed me; with his eye fixed, in all the ardour of enquiry.

What is man?--What are his functions, qualities, and uses?--Does he not
sleep trembling, live envying, and die cursing?--And is this worth
aught?--Is it to be endured?--Why do I suffer life thus to be imposed
upon me?

It is not suffering: or, if it be, such sufferings are of our own
creation--To the virtuous and the wise, life is joy and bliss.

Perhaps so--Wisdom there may be, and truth and virtue. And, for the
virtuous and the wise, the full stream of pleasure may richly flow: but
not for me! Pretend not that I may walk with the gods! I who have been
the inmate of fiends! I, who proposed glory to myself from the most
contemptible of pursuits! I, who could dangle after coquettes and
prudes; feed on and inflate myself with the baubles of a beauty's
toilette; and, in the book of vanity, inscribe myself a great hero, a
mighty conqueror, for having heaped ridicule on the ridiculous; or
brought innocence to shame, misery, and destruction! And this I did
with a light and vain heart! Did it laughing, boasting, exulting!
Satanic dog! Pest of hell! What! Stretch souls on the rack, and then
girn and mock at them for lying there! 'Tis the sport of devils, and by
devils invented!

Your present indignation is honourable both to your heart and
understanding.

Oh, flatter me not!--Vain, supercilious coxcomb!--I spread my wings,
crowed in conceit, threatened, resolved, laughed at opposition, and
kicked the world before me!--Oh, it was who but I!--And what was it I
proposed?--Fair conquest?--Honourable opposition?--No!--It was
treachery, covert malice, and cowardly conspiracy!--A league with
hell-dogs!--Horrible, blood-thirsty villains!--And baffled too;
defeated, after all this infernal enginery! Nay, had I been so wholly
devil as to have joined in murder, what would have followed? Why they
would next have murdered me; and for the justice of the second murder
would have hoped pardon, even for the hell-born guilt of the first!

Do not, while you detest and shun one crime, plunge into a greater.
This agony is for having been unjust to others; you are now still more
unjust to yourself. You will not suppose yourself capable of a single
virtue: yet, in your most mistaken moments, you never could be so
illiberal to your enemies.

Would you persuade me I am not a most guilty, foul, and hateful
monster?--Oh be more worthy of yourself, avoid me, detest me, curse me!

I will answer when you are more calm.

Calm?--Never, while this degraded being shall continue, shall such a
moment come!--I calm? Sleeping or waking, I at peace? I pardon
hypocrisy, treachery, blows, bruises, prisons, chains, poison, rape and
murder? Ministers of wrath descend, point here your flaming swords,
annihilate all memory of what manhood and honour were, and fit me for
the society of the damned!

Forbear!--(Never before did I address him in such a voice--The last
dreadful word of his sentence was drowned, by my stern and awful
violence; which reason dictated as the only means of recalling his
maddening thoughts, from the despair and horror into which they were
hurrying--I continued)--Frantic man, forbear! Recall your wild spirits
and command them to order. How long will you suffer this petty slavery?
How long shall the giant rage, and expend his strength, in tearing up
stubble and rending straws?--Stretch forth your hand, and grasp the
oak--Labours worthy of your Herculean mind await and invite you. Away
to the temple of Error; shake its pillars, and make its foundations
totter!--Be yourself--Shall the soaring eagle swoop at reptiles, the
prey of bats and owls?

Do not mock me with impossible hopes--What! Have you not held the
mirror up to me, and shewn me my own hatefulness?

Are you a man? Will you never shake off this bondage? Oh it is base!
it is beneath you! Of what have you been guilty? Why of ignorance,
mistakes of the understanding, false views, which you wanted knowledge
enough, truth enough, to correct. Have not many of the godlike men whom
we admire most been guilty, in their youth, of equal or of greater
errors?--Thus, alas, it happens that minds of the highest hope, and
most divine stamp and coinage, are cut off daily; swept away by
that other grand mistake of man-kind--'Exemplary punishment is
necessary'--So they say--But no--'Tis exemplary reformation! Can the
world be better warned by a body in gibbets, than by the active virtues
of a once misguided but now enlightened understanding? The gibbet will
remain an object of terror to the traveller, who dreads being robbed
and murdered; but an incitement to despair, in the mind of the
murderer!--Banish then these black pictures from your mind, by
which it continues darkened and misled; and in their stead behold a
soul-inspiring prospect, of all that is great and glorious, rising to
your view! Feel yourself a man! Nay you shall feel it, in your own
despite! A man capable of high and noble actions!

Here, Oliver, I at this time left him. His eye remained fixed, and he
was silent; but its wildness was diminished: the frown of his brow
disappeared, and his countenance became more clear. Such associations
as these tokens denoted ought not to meet interruption. However I took
care to return in less than an hour; fearful lest he should decline
into his former gloom, which was little short of phrensy. I had been
fortunate enough to reduce his discordant feelings to something like
harmony; and the moment I entered his room the second time he
exclaimed--

You are a generous fellow! A magnanimous fellow! You can work
miracles!--I know you of old--Can bring the dead to life!--Can almost
persuade me that even I, by living, may now and then effect some
trifling, pitiful good; may snatch some of the remnants, the offals of
honour--But aught eminent, aught worthy of--

Be calm.

No! It cannot be forgotten, or forgiven!--Cruel, malignant, remorseless
wretch!

Can you speak thus of the present?--You know you cannot!--And wherefore
unjustly insist on the past? Be firm! Conquer this pride of heart!

Why, ay--Pride of heart! It is the very damning sin of my soul!

Exorcise the foul fiend then, and in its stead give welcome to firm but
unassuming self-respect. Arise! Shake torpor from you, and feel your
strength! It is Atlean; made to bear a world! Cherish life, and become
worthy of yourself! What! Would you kill a mind so mighty? Do you not
feel it, now; possessing you, emanating, flaming, bursting to spread
itself?

Why, that were something!--Could I but once again get into my own good
liking--! You are a strange fellow!--You will not hate me! Nay, will
not suffer me to hate myself!--Damnation! To be cast at such an immense
distance! Oh it is intolerable! It is contemptible!--But I will have my
revenge!--Some how or another I will yet have my revenge! And, since
hate must not be the word, why--! But no matter--I will have no more
vaunting--Yet, if I do not--! I have had a glimpse, and begin to know
you--The soul of benevolence, of tenderness, of attention, of love, of
all the divine faculties that make men deities, infuses itself and
pervades you--Had I but been wholly fool, I had been but partly
villain--But I!--Oh monstrous!--The fiends with whom I was leagued to
me were angels!

Why, ay; contemplate the picture, but do not forget it is that of a man
you once knew, who is now no more. He has disappeared, and in his stead
an angel of light is come!

Stop!--Go not too fast!--I promise nothing--Mark that!--I promise
nothing--Do not imagine I am now in the feverish repentance of white
wine whey--You would have me stay in a world which I myself have
rendered hateful--I will think of it--I know your arts--You would
realize the fable of Pygmalion, and would infuse soul into marble!

There is no need; you have a soul already; inventive, capacious,
munificent, sublime!

Ay, ay--I know--You have a choice collection of words.

A soul of ten thousand! Nay, an army of souls in one!

And must I submit? Are you determined to make a rascal like me admire,
and love, and give place to all the fine affections of the heart?

Ay, determined!

Oh, sister!--(Louisa at this moment entered.) To you too I have behaved
like a scoundrel! A tyrant! A petulant, ostentatious, imperious
braggart!

You mistake! replied Louisa, eagerly. You mistake! You are talking of a
very different man! A being I could not understand. You are my
brother!--My brother!--I have found the way to your heart! Will make it
all my own! Will twine myself round it! Shake me off if you can!

The energy with which she spoke, and looked, and kissed him, was
irresistible! He was overpowered: the tears gushed to his eyes, but he
repressed them; he thought them unmanly; and, seeing his medical friend
enter, exclaimed--I have surgeons for the body, and surgeons for the
mind, who cut with so deep yet so steady a hand that they take away the
noxious, and leave the wound to suppurate and heal!

Can we do less? said I. Ours is no common task! We are acting in behalf
of society: we have found a treasure, by which it is to be enriched.
Few indeed are those puissant and heavenly endowed spirits, that are
capable of guiding, enlightening, and leading the human race onward to
felicity! What is there precious but mind? And when mind, like a
diamond of uncommon growth, exceeds a certain magnitude, calculation
cannot find its value!

I once more left him; and never did I quit the company of human being,
no not of Anna St. Ives herself, with a more glowing and hoping heart.
But why describe sensations to thee, Oliver, with which thou art so
intimately acquainted? To bid thee rejoice, to invite thee to
participate in felicity, which may and must so widely diffuse itself,
were equally to wrong thy understanding and thy heart.

F. HENLEY








Produced by Ted Garvin, Lorna Hanrahan, Charles Franks,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team




NINE  GREEK  DRAMAS

BY AESCHYLUS, SOPHOCLES, EURIPIDES
AND ARISTOPHANES



TRANSLATIONS BY E.D.A. MORSHEAD
E.H. PLUMPTRE, GILBERT MURRAY
AND B.B. ROGERS



WITH INTRODUCTIONS AND NOTES



THE HOUSE OF ATREUS. (Aeschylus)

  AGAMEMNON

  THE LIBATION-BEARERS

  THE FURIES

TRANSLATED BY E.D.A. MORSHEAD

_INTRODUCTORY NOTE

Of the life of Aeschylus, the first of the three great masters of
Greek tragedy, only a very meager outline has come down to us. He was
born at Eleusis, near Athens, B. C. 525, the son of Euphorion. Before
he was twenty-five he began to compete for the tragic prize, but did
not win a victory for twelve years. He spent two periods of years in
Sicily, where he died in 456, killed, it is said, by a tortoise which
an eagle dropped on his head. Though a professional writer, he did his
share of fighting for his country, and is reported to have taken part
in the battles of Marathon, Salamis, and Plataea.

Of the seventy or eighty plays which he is said to have written, only
seven survive: "The Persians," dealing with the defeat of Xerxes at
Salamis; "The Seven against Thebes," part of a tetralogy on the legend
of Thebes; "The Suppliants," on the daughters of Danaüs; "Prometheus
Bound," part of a trilogy, of which the first part was probably
"Prometheus, the Fire-bringer," and the last, "Prometheus Unbound";
and the "Oresteia," the only example of a complete Greek tragic
trilogy which has come down to us, consisting of "Agamemnon,"
"Choephorae" (The Libation-Bearers), and the "Eumenides" (Furies).

The importance of Aeschylus in the development of the drama is
immense. Before him tragedy had consisted of the chorus and one actor;
and by introducing a second actor, expanding the dramatic dialogue
thus made possible, and reducing the lyrical parts, he practically
created Greek tragedy as we understand it. Like other writers of his
time, he acted in his own plays, and trained the chorus in their
dances and songs; and he did much to give impressiveness to the
performances by his development of the accessories of scene and
costume on the stage. Of the four plays here reproduced, "Prometheus
Bound" holds an exceptional place in the literature of the world. (As
conceived by Aeschylus, Prometheus is the champion of man against the
oppression of Zeus; and the argument of the drama has a certain
correspondence to the problem of the Book of Job.) The Oresteian
trilogy on "The House of Atreus" is one of the supreme productions of
all literature. It deals with the two great themes of the retribution
of crime and the inheritance of evil; and here again a parallel
may be found between the assertions of the justice of God by
Aeschylus and by the Hebrew prophet Ezekiel. Both contend against the
popular idea that the fathers have eaten sour grapes and the
children's teeth are set on edge; both maintain that the soul that
sinneth, it shall die. The nobility of thought and the majesty of
style with which these ideas are set forth give this triple drama its
place at the head of the literary masterpieces of the antique
world._

       *       *       *       *       *

THE  HOUSE OF ATREUS

BEING

THE AGAMEMNON, THE LIBATION-BEARERS,
AND THE FURIES OF AESCHYLUS

AGAMEMNON

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

A WATCHMAN
A HERALD
CHORUS
AGAMEMNON
AEGISTHUS
CLYTEMNESTRA
CASSANDRA

_The Scene is the Palace of Atreus at Mycenae. In front of the
Palace stand statues of the gods, and altars prepared for
sacrifices._


_A Watchman_

I pray the gods to quit me of my toils,
To close the watch I keep, this livelong year;
For as a watch-dog lying, not at rest,
Propped on one arm, upon the palace-roof
Of Atreus' race, too long, too well I know
The starry conclave of the midnight sky,
Too well, the splendours of the firmament,
The lords of light, whose kingly aspect shows--
What time they set or climb the sky in turn--
The year's divisions, bringing frost or fire.

And now, as ever, am I set to mark
When shall stream up the glow of signal-flame,
The bale-fire bright, and tell its Trojan tale--
_Troy town is ta'en:_ such issue holds in hope
She in whose woman's breast beats heart of man.

Thus upon mine unrestful couch I lie,
Bathed with the dews of night, unvisited
By dreams--ah me!--for in the place of sleep
Stands Fear as my familiar, and repels
The soft repose that would mine eyelids seal.
And if at whiles, for the lost balm of sleep,
I medicine my soul with melody
Of trill or song--anon to tears I turn,
Wailing the woe that broods upon this home,
Not now by honour guided as of old.

But now at last fair fall the welcome hour
That sets me free, whene'er the thick night glow
With beacon-fire of hope deferred no more.
All hail!

[_A beacon-light is seen reddening the distant sky._

Fire of the night, that brings my spirit day,
Shedding on Argos light, and dance, and song,
Greetings to fortune, hail!

Let my loud summons ring within the ears
Of Agamemnon's queen, that she anon
Start from her couch and with a shrill voice cry
A joyous welcome to the beacon-blaze,
For Ilion's fall; such fiery message gleams
From yon high flame; and I, before the rest,
Will foot the lightsome measure of our joy;
For I can say, _My master's dice fell fair--
Behold! the triple sice, the lucky flame!_
Now be my lot to clasp, in loyal love,
The hand of him restored, who rules our home:
Home--but I say no more: upon my tongue
Treads hard the ox o' the adage.
                                  Had it voice,
The home itself might soothliest tell its tale;
I, of set will, speak words the wise may learn,
To others, nought remember nor discern.

[_Exit. The chorus of old men of Mycenae enter, each leaning on a
staff. During their song Clytemnestra appears in the background,
kindling the altars. _

CHORUS

Ten livelong years have rolled away,
Since the twin lords of sceptred sway,
By Zeus endowed with pride of place,
The doughty chiefs of Atreus' race,
  Went forth of yore,
To plead with Priam, face to face,
  Before the judgment-seat of War!

A thousand ships from Argive land
Put forth to bear the martial band,
That with a spirit stern and strong
Went out to right the kingdom's wrong--
Pealed, as they went, the battle-song,
  Wild as the vultures' cry;
When o'er the eyrie, soaring high,
In wild bereavèd agony,
Around, around, in airy rings,
They wheel with oarage of their wings,
But not the eyas-brood behold,
That called them to the nest of old;
But let Apollo from the sky,
Or Pan, or Zeus, but hear the cry,
The exile cry, the wail forlorn,
Of birds from whom their home is torn--
On those who wrought the rapine fell,
Heaven sends the vengeful fiends of hell.

Even so doth Zeus, the jealous lord
And guardian of the hearth and board,
Speed Atreus' sons, in vengeful ire,
'Gainst Paris--sends them forth on fire,
Her to buy back, in war and blood,
Whom one did wed but many woo'd!
And many, many, by his will,
The last embrace of foes shall feel,
And many a knee in dust be bowed,
And splintered spears on shields ring loud,
  Of Trojan and of Greek, before
  That iron bridal-feast be o'er!
  But as he willed 'tis ordered all,
  And woes, by heaven ordained, must fall--
  Unsoothed by tears or spilth of wine
  Poured forth too late, the wrath divine
  Glares vengeance on the flameless shrine.

  And we in gray dishonoured eld,
  Feeble of frame, unfit were held
  To join the warrior array
  That then went forth unto the fray:
  And here at home we tarry, fain
  Our feeble footsteps to sustain,
  Each on his staff--so strength doth wane,
  And turns to childishness again.
  For while the sap of youth is green,
  And, yet unripened, leaps within,
  The young are weakly as the old,
  And each alike unmeet to hold
  The vantage post of war!
  And ah! when flower and fruit are o'er,
    And on life's tree the leaves are sere,
    Age wendeth propped its journey drear,
  As forceless as a child, as light
  And fleeting as a dream of night
  Lost in the garish day!

  But thou, O child of Tyndareus,
    Queen Clytemnestra, speak! and say
    What messenger of joy to-day
  Hath won thine ear? what welcome news,
  That thus in sacrificial wise
  E'en to the city's boundaries
  Thou biddest altar-fires arise?
  Each god who doth our city guard,
  And keeps o'er Argos watch and ward
    From heaven above, from earth below--
  The mighty lords who rule the skies,
  The market's lesser deities,
    To each and all the altars glow,
  Piled for the sacrifice!
  And here and there, anear, afar,
  Streams skyward many a beacon-star,
  Conjur'd and charm'd and kindled well
  By pure oil's soft and guileless spell,
  Hid now no more
  Within the palace' secret store.

  O queen, we pray thee, whatsoe'er,
    Known unto thee, were well revealed,
  That thou wilt trust it to our ear,
    And bid our anxious heart be healed!
  That waneth now unto despair--
  Now, waxing to a presage fair,
  Dawns, from the altar, Hope--to scare
  From our rent hearts the vulture Care.

List! for the power is mine, to chant on high
  The chiefs' emprise, the strength that omens gave!
List! on my soul breathes yet a harmony,
  From realms of ageless powers, and strong to save!

How brother kings, twin lords of one command,
  Led forth the youth of Hellas in their flower,
Urged on their way, with vengeful spear and brand,
  By warrior-birds, that watched the parting hour.

_Go forth to Troy_, the eagles seemed to cry--
  And the sea-kings obeyed the sky-kings' word,
When on the right they soared across the sky,
  And one was black, one bore a white tail barred.

High o'er the palace were they seen to soar,
  Then lit in sight of all, and rent and tare,
Far from the fields that she should range no more,
  Big with her unborn brood, a mother-hare.

And one beheld, the soldier-prophet true,
  And the two chiefs, unlike of soul and will,
In the twy-coloured eagles straight he knew,
  And spake the omen forth, for good and ill.

(Ah woe and well-a-day! but be the issue fair!)

_Go forth,_ he cried, _and Priam's town shall fall.
   Yet long the time shall be; and flock and herd,
The people's wealth, that roam before the wall.
   Shall force hew down, when Fate shall give the word.

But O beware! lest wrath in Heaven abide,
   To dim the glowing battle-forge once more,
And mar the mighty curb of Trojan pride,
   The steel of vengeance, welded as for war!

For virgin Artemis bears jealous hate
   Against the royal house, the eagle-pair,
Who rend the unborn brood, insatiate--
   Yea, loathes their banquet on the quivering hare._

(Ah woe and well-a-day! but be the issue fair!)

_For well she loves--the goddess kind and mild--
   The tender new-born cubs of lions bold,
Too weak to range--and well the sucking child
   Of every beast that roams by wood and wold.

So to the Lord of Heaven she prayeth still,
   "Nay. if it must be, be the omen true!
Yet do the visioned eagles presage ill;
   The end be well, but crossed with evil too!"

Healer Apollo! be her wrath controll'd,
   Nor weave the long delay of thwarting gales,
To war against the Danaans and withhold
   From the free ocean-waves their eager sails!

She craves, alas! to see a second life
   Shed forth, a curst unhallowed sacrifice--
'Twixt wedded souls, artificer of strife,
   And hate that knows not fear, and fell device.

At home there tarries like a lurking snake,
   Biding its time, a wrath unreconciled,_
_A wily watcher, passionate to slake,
  In blood, resentment for a murdered child._

Such was the mighty warning, pealed of yore--
  Amid good tidings, such the word of fear,
What time the fateful eagles hovered o'er
  The kings, and Calchas read the omen clear.

(In strains like his, once more,
Sing woe and well-a-day! but be the issue fair!)

  Zeus--if to The Unknown
    That name of many names seem good--
  Zeus, upon Thee I call.
    Thro' the mind's every road
  I passed, but vain are all,
  Save that which names thee Zeus, the Highest One,
    Were it but mine to cast away the load,
The weary load, that weighs my spirit down.

  He that was Lord of old,
In full-blown pride of place and valour bold,
  Hath fallen and is gone, even as an old tale told!
  And he that next held sway,
  By stronger grasp o'erthrown
  Hath pass'd away!
And whoso now shall bid the triumph-chant arise
  To Zeus, and Zeus alone,
He shall be found the truly wise.
'Tis Zeus alone who shows the perfect way
  Of knowledge: He hath ruled,
Men shall learn wisdom, by affliction schooled.

  In visions of the night, like dropping rain,
  Descend the many memories of pain
Before the spirit's sight: through tears and dole
  Comes wisdom o'er the unwilling soul--
  A boon, I wot, of all Divinity,
That holds its sacred throne in strength, above the sky!

  And then the elder chief, at whose command
  The fleet of Greece was manned,
  Cast on the seer no word of hate,
  But veered before the sudden breath of Fate--

  Ah, weary while! for, ere they put forth sail,
  Did every store, each minish'd vessel, fail,
    While all the Achaean host
    At Aulis anchored lay,
  Looking across to Chalics and the coast
  Where refluent waters welter, rock, and sway;
    And rife with ill delay
  From northern Strymon blew the thwarting blast--
    Mother of famine fell,
    That holds men wand'ring still
  Far from the haven where they fain would be!--
    And pitiless did waste
    Each ship and cable, rotting on the sea,
    And, doubling with delay each weary hour,
Withered with hope deferred th' Achaeans' warlike flower.

  But when, for bitter storm, a deadlier relief,
  And heavier with ill to either chief,
Pleading the ire of Artemis, the seer avowed,
  The two Atridae smote their sceptres on the plain,
  And, striving hard, could not their tears restrain!
  And then the elder monarch spake aloud--
    _Ill lot were mine, to disobey!
    And ill, to smite my child, my household's love and pride!
    To stain with virgin Hood a father's hands, and slay
    My daughter, by the altar's side!
    'Twixt woe and woe I dwell--
  I dare not like a recreant fly,
And leave the league of ships, and fail each true ally;
  For rightfully they crave, with eager fiery mind,
  The virgin's blood, shed forth to lull the adverse wind--
     God send the deed be well!_

      Thus on his neck he took
      Fate's hard compelling yoke;
Then, in the counter-gale of will abhorr'd, accursed,
    To recklessness his shifting spirit veered--
    Alas! that Frenzy, first of ills and worst,
With evil craft men's souls to sin hath ever stirred!

    And so he steeled his heart--ah, well-a-day--
      Aiding a war for one false woman's sake,
          His child to slay,
    And with her spilt blood make
An offering, to speed the ships upon their way!

    Lusting for war, the bloody arbiters
Closed heart and ears, and would nor hear nor heed
      The girl-voice plead,
  _Pity me, Father!_ nor her prayers,
      Nor tender, virgin years.

     So, when the chant of sacrifice was done,
     Her father bade the youthful priestly train
Raise her, like some poor kid, above the altar-stone,
     From where amid her robes she lay
        Sunk all in swoon away--
Bade them, as with the bit that mutely tames the steed,
      Her fair lips' speech refrain,
Lest she should speak a curse on Atreus' home and seed,

      So, trailing on the earth her robe of saffron dye,
    With one last piteous dart from her beseeching eye
       Those that should smite she smote--
    Fair, silent, as a pictur'd form, but fain
    To plead, _Is all forgot?
How oft those halls of old,
Wherein my sire high feast did hold,_
  _Rang to the virginal soft strain,
    When I, a stainless child,
  Sang from pure lips and undefiled,
    Sang of my sire, and all
His honoured life, and how on him should fall
    Heaven's highest gift and gain!_
  And then--but I beheld not, nor can tell,
    What further fate befel:
  But this is sure, that Calchas' boding strain
    Can ne'er be void or vain.
  This wage from Justice' hand do sufferers earn,
    The future to discern:
  And yet--farewell, O secret of To-morrow!
    Fore-knowledge is fore-sorrow.
  Clear with the clear beams of the morrow's sun,
    The future presseth on.
  Now, let the house's tale, how dark soe'er,
    Find yet an issue fair!--
  So prays the loyal, solitary band
    That guards the Apian land.

[_They turn to Clytemnestra, who leaves the altars and comes
forward._

O queen, I come in reverence of thy sway--
For, while the ruler's kingly seat is void,
The loyal heart before his consort bends.
Now--be it sure and certain news of good,
Or the fair tidings of a flatt'ring hope,
That bids thee spread the light from shrine to shrine,
I, fain to hear, yet grudge not if thou hide.

CLYTEMNESTRA

As saith the adage, _From the womb of Night
Spring forth, with promise fair, the young child Light._
Ay--fairer even than all hope my news--
By Grecian hands is Priam's city ta'en!

CHORUS

What say'st thou? doubtful heart makes treach'rous ear.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Hear then again, and plainly--Troy is ours!

CHORUS

Thrills thro' my heart such joy as wakens tears.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Ay, thro' those tears thine eye looks loyalty.

CHORUS

But hast thou proof, to make assurance sure?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Go to; I have--unless the god has lied.

CHORUS

Hath some night-vision won thee to belief?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Out on all presage of a slumb'rous soul!

CHORUS

But wert thou cheered by Rumour's wingless word?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Peace--thou dost chide me as a credulous girl.

CHORUS

Say then, how long ago the city fell?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Even in this night that now brings forth the dawn.

CHORUS

Yet who so swift could speed the message here?

CLYTEMNESTRA

From Ida's top Hephaestus, lord of fire,
Sent forth his sign; and on, and ever on,
Beacon to beacon sped the courier-flame.
From Ida to the crag, that Hermes loves,
Of Lemnos; thence unto the steep sublime
Of Athos, throne of Zeus, the broad blaze flared.
Thence, raised aloft to shoot across the sea,
The moving light, rejoicing in its strength,
Sped from the pyre of pine, and urged its way,
In golden glory, like some strange new sun,
Onward, and reached Macistus' watching heights.
There, with no dull delay nor heedless sleep,
The watcher sped the tidings on in turn,
Until the guard upon Messapius' peak
Saw the far flame gleam on Euripus' tide,
And from the high-piled heap of withered furze
Lit the new sign and bade the message on.
Then the strong light, far flown and yet undimmed,
Shot thro' the sky above Asopus' plain,
Bright as the moon, and on Cithaeron's crag
Aroused another watch of flying fire.
And there the sentinels no whit disowned,
But sent redoubled on, the hest of flame--
Swift shot the light, above Gorgopis' bay,
To Aegiplanctus' mount, and bade the peak
Fail not the onward ordinance of fire.
And like a long beard streaming in the wind,
Full-fed with fuel, roared and rose the blaze,
And onward flaring, gleamed above the cape,
Beneath which shimmers the Saronic bay,
And thence leapt light unto Arachne's peak,
The mountain watch that looks upon our town.
Thence to th' Atrides' roof--in lineage fair,
A bright posterity of Ida's fire.
So sped from stage to stage, fulfilled in turn,
Flame after flame, along the course ordained,
And lo! the last to speed upon its way
Sights the end first, and glows unto the goal.
And Troy is ta'en, and by this sign my lord
Tells me the tale, and ye have learned my word.

CHORUS

To heaven, O queen, will I upraise new song:
But, wouldst thou speak once more, I fain would hear
From first to last the marvel of the tale.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Think you--this very morn--the Greeks in Troy,
And loud therein the voice of utter wail!
Within one cup pour vinegar and oil,
And look! unblent, unreconciled, they war.
So in the twofold issue of the strife
Mingle the victor's shout, the captives' moan.
For all the conquered whom the sword has spared
Cling weeping--some unto a brother slain,
Some childlike to a nursing father's form,
And wail the loved and lost, the while their neck
Bows down already 'neath the captive's chain.
And lo! the victors, now the fight is done,
Goaded by restless hunger, far and wide
Range all disordered thro' the town, to snatch
Such victual and such rest as chance may give
Within the captive halls that once were Troy--
Joyful to rid them of the frost and dew,
Wherein they couched upon the plain of old--
Joyful to sleep the gracious night all through,
Unsummoned of the watching sentinel.
Yet let them reverence well the city's gods,
The lords of Troy, tho' fallen, and her shrines;
So shall the spoilers not in turn be spoiled.
Yea, let no craving for forbidden gain
Bid conquerors yield before the darts of greed.
For we need yet, before the race be won,
Homewards, unharmed, to round the course once more.
For should the host wax wanton ere it come,
Then, tho' the sudden blow of fate be spared,
Yet in the sight of gods shall rise once more

The great wrong of the slain, to claim revenge.
Now, hearing from this woman's mouth of mine,
The tale and eke its warning, pray with me,
_Luck sway the scale, with no uncertain poise.
For my fair hopes are changed to fairer joys._

CHORUS

A gracious word thy woman's lips have told,
Worthy a wise man's utterance, O my queen;
Now with clear trust in thy convincing tale
I set me to salute the gods with song,
Who bring us bliss to counterpoise our pain.

[_Exit Clytemnestra._

Zeus, Lord of heaven! and welcome night
Of victory, that hast our might
  With all the glories crowned!
On towers of Ilion, free no more,
Hast flung the mighty mesh of war,
  And closely girt them round,
Till neither warrior may 'scape,
Nor stripling lightly overleap
The trammels as they close, and close,
Till with the grip of doom our foes
  In slavery's coil are bound!

Zeus, Lord of hospitality,
In grateful awe I bend to thee--
  'Tis thou hast struck the blow!
  At Alexander, long ago,
  We marked thee bend thy vengeful bow,
But long and warily withhold
The eager shaft, which, uncontrolled
And loosed too soon or launched too high,
Had wandered bloodless through the sky.

Zeus, the high God!--whate'er be dim in doubt,
  This can our thought track out--
The blow that fells the sinner is of God,
  And as he wills, the rod

Of vengeance smiteth sore.    One said of old,
  _The gods list not to hold
A reckoning with him whose feet oppress
  The grace of holiness--_
An impious word! for whensoe'er the sire
  Breathed forth rebellious fire--
What time his household overflowed the measure
  Of bliss and health and treasure--
His children's children read the reckoning plain,
  At last, in tears and pain.
On me let weal that brings no woe be sent,
  And therewithal, content!
Who spurns the shrine of Right, nor wealth nor power
  Shall be to him a tower,
To guard him from the gulf: there lies his lot,
  Where all things are forgot.
Lust drives him on--lust, desperate and wild,
  Fate's sin-contriving child--
And cure is none; beyond concealment clear,
  Kindles sin's baleful glare.
As an ill coin beneath the wearing touch
  Betrays by stain and smutch
Its metal false--such is the sinful wight.
  Before, on pinions light,
Fair Pleasure flits, and lures him childlike on,
  While home and kin make moan
Beneath the grinding burden of his crime;
  Till, in the end of time,
Cast down of heaven, he pours forth fruitless prayer
  To powers that will not hear.

  And such did Paris come
  Unto Atrides' home,
And thence, with sin and shame his welcome to repay,
  Ravished the wife away--
And she, unto her country and her kin
Leaving the clash of shields and spears and arming ships,
And bearing unto Troy destruction for a dower,
  And overbold in sin,
Went fleetly thro' the gates, at midnight hour.
  Oft from the prophets' lips
Moaned out the warning and the wail--Ah woe!
Woe for the home, the home! and for the chieftains, woe
  Woe for the bride-bed, warm
Yet from the lovely limbs, the impress of the form
  Of her who loved her lord, a while ago!
    And woe! for him who stands
Shamed, silent, unreproachful, stretching hands
  That find her not, and sees, yet will not see,
    That she is far away!
And his sad fancy, yearning o'er the sea,
    Shall summon and recall
Her wraith, once more to queen it in his hall.
    And sad with many memories,
The fair cold beauty of each sculptured face--
  And all to hatefulness is turned their grace,
Seen blankly by forlorn and hungering eyes!
  And when the night is deep,
Come visions, sweet and sad, and bearing pain
  Of hopings vain--
Void, void and vain, for scarce the sleeping sight
  Has seen its old delight,
When thro' the grasps of love that bid it stay
  It vanishes away
On silent wings that roam adown the ways of sleep.

  Such are the sights, the sorrows fell,
About our hearth--and worse, whereof I may not tell.
  But, all the wide town o'er,
Each home that sent its master far away
  From Hellas' shore,
Feels the keen thrill of heart, the pang of loss, to-day.
  For, truth to say,
The touch of bitter death is manifold!
Familiar was each face, and dear as life,
  That went unto the war,
But thither, whence a warrior went of old,
  Doth nought return--
Only a spear and sword, and ashes in an urn!
  For Ares, lord of strife,
Who doth the swaying scales of battle hold,
War's money-changer, giving dust for gold,
  Sends back, to hearts that held them dear,
Scant ash of warriors, wept with many a tear,
Light to the hand, but heavy to the soul;
  Yea, fills the light urn full
  With what survived the flame--
Death's dusty measure of a hero's frame!

_Alas!_ one cries, _and yet alas again!
Our chief is gone, the hero of the spear,
  And hath not left his peer!
Ah woe!_ another moans--_my spouse is slain,
  The death of honour, rolled in dust and blood,
Slain for a woman's sin, a false wife's shame!_
  Such muttered words of bitter mood
Rise against those who went forth to reclaim;
  Yea, jealous wrath creeps on against th' Atrides' name.

      And others, far beneath the Ilian wall,
    Sleep their last sleep--the goodly chiefs and tall,
  Couched in the foeman's land, whereon they gave
Their breath, and lords of Troy, each in his Trojan grave.

  Therefore for each and all the city's breast
  Is heavy with a wrath supprest,
As deep and deadly as a curse more loud
  Flung by the common crowd;
And, brooding deeply, doth my soul await
  Tidings of coming fate,
Buried as yet in darkness' womb.
For not forgetful is the high gods' doom
  Against the sons of carnage: all too long
Seems the unjust to prosper and be strong,
  Till the dark Furies come,
And smite with stern reversal all his home,
  Down into dim obstruction--he is gone,
And help and hope, among the lost, is none!

O'er him who vaunteth an exceeding fame,
  Impends a woe condign;
The vengeful bolt upon his eyes doth flame,
  Sped from the hand divine.
This bliss be mine, ungrudged of God, to feel--
  To tread no city to the dust,
  Nor see my own life thrust
Down to a slave's estate beneath another's heel!

Behold, throughout the city wide
Have the swift feet of Rumour hied,
  Roused by the joyful flame:
But is the news they scatter, sooth?
Or haply do they give for truth
  Some cheat which heaven doth frame?
A child were he and all unwise,
  Who let his heart with joy be stirred,
To see the beacon-fires arise,
  And then, beneath some thwarting word,
  Sicken anon with hope deferred.
  The edge of woman's insight still
  Good news from true divideth ill;
Light rumours leap within the bound
That fences female credence round,
But, lightly born, as lightly dies
The tale that springs of her surmise.

Soon shall we know whereof the bale-fires tell,
The beacons, kindled with transmitted flame;
Whether, as well I deem, their tale is true.
Or whether like some dream delusive came
The welcome blaze but to befool our soul.
For lo! I see a herald from the shore
Draw hither, shadowed with the olive-wreath--
And thirsty dust, twin-brother of the clay,
Speaks plain of travel far and truthful news--
No dumb surmise, nor tongue of flame in smoke,
Fitfully kindled from the mountain pyre;
But plainlier shall his voice say, _All is well,_
Or--but away, forebodings adverse, now,

And on fair promise fair fulfilment come!
And whoso for the state prays otherwise,
Himself reap harvest of his ill desire!

_Enter_ HERALD

O land of Argos, fatherland of mine!
To thee at last, beneath the tenth year's sun,
My feet return; the bark of my emprise,
Tho' one by one hope's anchors broke away,
Held by the last, and now rides safely here.
Long, long my soul despaired to win, in death,
Its longed-for rest within our Argive land:
And now all hail, O earth, and hail to thee,
New-risen sun! and hail our country's God,
High-ruling Zeus, and thou, the Pythian lord,
Whose arrows smote us once--smite thou no more!
Was not thy wrath wreaked full upon our heads,
O king Apollo, by Scamander's side?
Turn thou, be turned, be saviour, healer, now!
And hail, all gods who rule the street and mart
And Hermes hail! my patron and my pride,
Herald of heaven, and lord of heralds here!
And Heroes, ye who sped us on our way--
To one and all I cry, _Receive again
With grace such Argives as the spear has spared._

Ah, home of royalty, beloved halls,
And solemn shrines, and gods that front the morn!
Benign as erst, with sun-flushed aspect greet
The king returning after many days.
For as from night flash out the beams of day,
So out of darkness dawns a light, a king,
On you, on Argos--Agamemnon comes.
Then hail and greet him well! such meed befits
Him whose right hand hewed down the towers of Troy
With the great axe of Zeus who righteth wrong--
And smote the plain, smote down to nothingness
Each altar, every shrine; and far and wide
Dies from the whole land's face its offspring fair.

Such mighty yoke of fate he set on Troy--
Our lord and monarch, Atreus' elder son,
And comes at last with blissful honour home;
Highest of all who walk on earth to-day--
Not Paris nor the city's self that paid
Sin's price with him, can boast, _Whate'er befal,
The guerdon we have won outweighs it all._
But at Fate's judgment-seat the robber stands
Condemned of rapine, and his prey is torn
Forth from his hands, and by his deed is reaped
A bloody harvest of his home and land
Gone down to death, and for his guilt and lust
His father's race pays double in the dust.

CHORUS

Hail, herald of the Greeks, new-come from war.

HERALD

All hail! not death itself can fright me now.

CHORUS

Was thine heart wrung with longing for thy land?

HERALD

So that this joy doth brim mine eyes with tears.

CHORUS

On you too then this sweet distress did fall--

HERALD

How say'st thou? make me master of thy word.

CHORUS

You longed for us who pined for you again.

HERALD

Craved the land us who craved it, love for love?

CHORUS

Yea till my brooding heart moaned out with pain.

HERALD

Whence thy despair, that mars the army's joy?

CHORUS

_Sole cure of wrong is silence,_ saith the saw.

HERALD

Thy kings afar, couldst thou fear other men?

CHORUS

Death had been sweet, as thou didst say but now.

HERALD

'Tis true; Fate smiles at last. Throughout our toil,
These many years, some chances issued fair,
And some, I wot, were chequered with a curse.
But who, on earth, hath won the bliss of heaven,
Thro' time's whole tenor an unbroken weal?
I could a tale unfold of toiling oars,
Ill rest, scant landings on a shore rock-strewn,
All pains, all sorrows, for our daily doom.
And worse and hatefuller our woes on land;
For where we couched, close by the foeman's wall,
The river-plain was ever dank with dews,
Dropped from the sky, exuded from the earth,
A curse that clung unto our sodden garb,
And hair as horrent as a wild beast's fell.
Why tell the woes of winter, when the birds
Lay stark and stiff, so stern was Ida's snow?
Or summer's scorch, what time the stirless wave
Sank to its sleep beneath the noon-day sun?
Why mourn old woes? their pain has passed away;
And passed away, from those who fell, all care,
For evermore, to rise and live again.

Why sum the count of death, and render thanks
For life by moaning over fate malign?
Farewell, a long farewell to all our woes!
To us, the remnant of the host of Greece,
Comes weal beyond all counterpoise of woe;
Thus boast we rightfully to yonder sun,
Like him far-fleeted over sea and land.
_The Argive host prevailed to conquer Troy,
And in the temples of the gods of Greece
Hung up these spoils, a shining sign to Time._
Let those who learn this legend bless aright
The city and its chieftains, and repay
The meed of gratitude to Zeus who willed
And wrought the deed. So stands the tale fulfilled.

CHORUS

Thy words o'erbear my doubt: for news of good,
The ear of age hath ever youth enow:
But those within and Clytemnestra's self
Would fain hear all; glad thou their ears and mine.

_Re-enter_ CLYTEMNESTRA

Last night, when first the fiery courier came,
In sign that Troy is ta'en and razed to earth,
So wild a cry of joy my lips gave out,
That I was chidden--_Hath the beacon watch
Made sure unto thy soul the sack of Troy?
A very woman thou, whose heart leaps light
At wandering rumours!_--and with words like these
They showed me how I strayed, misled of hope.
Yet on each shrine I set the sacrifice,
And, in the strain they held for feminine,
Went heralds thro' the city, to and fro,
With voice of loud proclaim, announcing joy;
And in each fane they lit and quenched with wine
The spicy perfumes fading in the flame.
All is fulfilled: I spare your longer tale--
The king himself anon shall tell me all.

Remains to think what honour best may greet
My lord, the majesty of Argos, home.
What day beams fairer on a woman's eyes
Than this, whereon she flings the portal wide,
To hail her lord, heaven-shielded, home from war?
This to my husband, that he tarry not,
But turn the city's longing into joy!
Yea let him come, and coming may he find
A wife no other than he left her, true
And faithful as a watch-dog to his home,
His foemen's foe, in all her duties leal,
Trusty to keep for ten long years unmarred
The store whereon he set his master-seal.
Be steel deep-dyed, before ye look to see
Ill joy, ill fame, from other wight, in me!

HERALD

'Tis fairly said: thus speaks a noble dame,
Nor speaks amiss, when truth informs the boast.

[_Exit Clytemnestra._

CHORUS

So has she spoken--be it yours to learn
By clear interpreters her specious word.
Turn to me, herald--tell me if anon
The second well-loved lord of Argos comes?
Hath Menelaus safely sped with you?

HERALD

Alas--brief boon unto my friends it were,
To flatter them, for truth, with falsehoods fair!

CHORUS

Speak joy, if truth be joy, but truth, at worst--
loo plainly, truth and joy are here divorced.

HERALD

The hero and his bark were rapt away
Far from the Grecian fleet? 'tis truth I say.

CHORUS

Whether in all men's sight from Ilion borne,
Or from the fleet by stress of weather torn?

HERALD

Full on the mark thy shaft of speech doth light,
And one short word hath told long woes aright.

CHORUS

But say, what now of him each comrade saith?
What their forebodings, of his life or death?

HERALD

Ask me no more: the truth is known to none,
Save the earth-fostering, all-surveying Sun,

CHORUS

Say, by what doom the fleet of Greece was driven?
How rose, how sank the storm, the wrath of heaven?

HERALD

Nay, ill it were to mar with sorrow's tale
The day of blissful news. The gods demand
Thanksgiving sundered from solicitude.
If one as herald came with rueful face
To say, _The curse has fallen, and the host
Gone down to death; and one wide wound has reached
The city's heart, and out of many homes
Many are cast and consecrate to death,
Beneath the double scourge, that Ares loves,
The bloody pair, the fire and sword of doom_--
If such sore burden weighed upon my tongue,
'Twere fit to speak such words as gladden fiends.
But--coming as he comes who bringeth news
Of safe return from toil, and issues fair,
To men rejoicing in a weal restored--
Dare I to dash good words with ill, and say
How the gods' anger smote the Greeks in storm?
For fire and sea, that erst held bitter feud,
Now swore conspiracy and pledged their faith,
Wasting the Argives worn with toil and war.
Night and great horror of the rising wave
Came o'er us, and the blasts that blow from Thrace
Clashed ship with ship, and some with plunging prow
Thro' scudding drifts of spray and raving storm
Vanished, as strays by some ill shepherd driven.
And when at length the sun rose bright, we saw
Th' Aegaean sea-field flecked with flowers of death,
Corpses of Grecian men and shattered hulls.
For us indeed, some god, as well I deem,
No human power, laid hand upon our helm,
Snatched us or prayed us from the powers of air,
And brought our bark thro' all, unharmed in hull:
And saving Fortune sat and steered us fair,
So that no surge should gulf us deep in brine,
Nor grind our keel upon a rocky shore.

So 'scaped we death that lurks beneath the sea,
But, under day's white light, mistrustful all
Of fortune's smile, we sat and brooded deep,
Shepherds forlorn of thoughts that wandered wild,
O'er this new woe; for smitten was our host,
And lost as ashes scattered from the pyre.
Of whom if any draw his life-breath yet,
Be well assured, he deems of us as dead,
As we of him no other fate forebode.
But heaven save all! If Menelaus live,
He will not tarry, but will surely come:
Therefore if anywhere the high sun's ray
Descries him upon earth, preserved by Zeus,
Who wills not yet to wipe his race away,
Hope still there is that homeward he may wend.
Enough--thou hast the truth unto the end.

CHORUS

  Say, from whose lips the presage fell?
  Who read the future all too well,
    And named her, in her natal hour,
    Helen, the bride with war for dower?
  'Twas one of the Invisible,
    Guiding his tongue with prescient power.
  On fleet, and host, and citadel,
    War, sprung from her, and death did lour,
  When from the bride-bed's fine-spun veil
  She to the Zephyr spread her sail.

  Strong blew the breeze--the surge closed o'er
  The cloven track of keel and oar,
    But while she fled, there drove along,
    Fast in her wake, a mighty throng--
  Athirst for blood, athirst for war,
    Forward in fell pursuit they sprung,
  Then leapt on Simois' bank ashore,
    The leafy coppices among--
  No rangers, they, of wood and field,
  But huntsmen of the sword and shield.

  Heaven's jealousy, that works its will,
  Sped thus on Troy its destined ill,
    Well named, at once, the Bride and Bane;
    And loud rang out the bridal strain;
  But they to whom that song befel
    Did turn anon to tears again;
  Zeus tarries, but avenges still
    The husband's wrong, the household's stain!
  He, the hearth's lord, brooks not to see
  Its outraged hospitality.

  Even now, and in far other tone,
  Troy chants her dirge of mighty moan,
    _Woe upon Paris, woe and hate!
    Who wooed his country's doom for mate_--
This is the burthen of the groan,
  Wherewith she wails disconsolate
The blood, so many of her own
  Have poured in vain, to fend her fate;
Troy! thou hast fed and freed to roam
A lion-cub within thy home!

A suckling creature, newly ta'en
From mother's teat, still fully fain
  Of nursing care; and oft caressed,
  Within the arms, upon the breast,
Even as an infant, has it lain;
  Or fawns and licks, by hunger pressed,
The hand that will assuage its pain;
  In life's young dawn, a well-loved guest,
A fondling for the children's play,
A joy unto the old and gray.

But waxing time and growth betrays
The blood-thirst of the lion-race,
  And, for the house's fostering care,
  Unbidden all, it revels there,
And bloody recompense repays--
  Rent flesh of tine, its talons tare:
A mighty beast, that slays and slays,
  And mars with blood the household fair,
A God-sent pest invincible,
A minister of fate and hell.

  Even so to Ilion's city came by stealth
    A spirit as of windless seas and skies,
  A gentle phantom-form of joy and wealth,
    With love's soft arrows speeding from its eyes--
Love's rose, whose thorn doth pierce the soul in subtle wise.

Ah, well-a-day! the bitter bridal-bed,
  When the fair mischief lay by Paris' side!
What curse on palace and on people sped
    With her, the Fury sent on Priam's pride,
By angered Zeus! what tears of many a widowed bride!

  Long, long ago to mortals this was told,
    How sweet security and blissful state
  Have curses for their children--so men hold--
    And for the man of all-too prosperous fate
Springs from a bitter seed some woe insatiate.

  Alone, alone, I deem far otherwise;
    Not bliss nor wealth it is, but impious deed,
  From which that after-growth of ill doth rise!
    Woe springs from wrong, the plant is like the seed--
While Right, in honour's house, doth its own likeness breed.

  Some past impiety, some gray old crime,
    Breeds the young curse, that wantons in our ill,
  Early or late, when haps th' appointed time--
    And out of light brings power of darkness still,
A master-fiend, a foe, unseen, invincible;

  A pride accursed, that broods upon the race
    And home in which dark Atè holds her sway--
  Sin's child and Woe's, that wears its parents' face;
    While Right in smoky cribs shines clear as day,
And decks with weal his life, who walks the righteous way.

  From gilded halls, that hands polluted raise,
    Right turns away with proud averted eyes,
  And of the wealth, men stamp amiss with praise,
    Heedless, to poorer, holier temples hies,
And to Fate's goal guides all, in its appointed wise.

    Hail to thee, chief of Atreus' race,
    Returning proud from Troy subdued!
How shall I greet thy conquering face,
How nor a fulsome praise obtrude,
Nor stint the meed of gratitude?
For mortal men who fall to ill
Take little heed of open truth,
But seek unto its semblance still:
The show of weeping and of ruth
To the forlorn will all men pay,
But, of the grief their eyes display,
Nought to the heart doth pierce its way.
And, with the joyous, they beguile
Their lips unto a feigned smile,
And force a joy, unfelt the while;
But he who as a shepherd wise
  Doth know his flock, can ne'er misread
Truth in the falsehood of his eyes,
Who veils beneath a kindly guise
  A lukewarm love in deed.
And thou, our leader--when of yore
Thou badest Greece go forth to war
For Helen's sake--I dare avow
That then I held thee not as now;
That to my vision thou didst seem
Dyed in the hues of disesteem.
I held thee for a pilot ill,
And reckless, of thy proper will,
Endowing others doomed to die
With vain and forced audacity!
Now from my heart, ungrudgingly,
To those that wrought, this word be said--
_Well fall the labour ye have sped--_
Let time and search, O king, declare
What men within thy city's bound
Were loyal to the kingdom's care,
  And who were faithless found.

[_Enter Agamemnon in a chariot, accompanied by Cassandra. He speaks
without descending._

AGAMEMNON

First, as is meet, a king's All-hail be said
To Argos, and the gods that guard the land--
Gods who with me availed to speed us home,
With me availed to wring from Priam's town
The due of justice. In the court of heaven
The gods in conclave sat and judged the cause,
Not from a pleader's tongue, and at the close,
Unanimous into the urn of doom
This sentence gave, _On Ilion and her men,
Death:_ and where hope drew nigh to pardon's urn
No hand there was to cast a vote therein.
And still the smoke of fallen Ilion
Rises in sight of all men, and the flame
Of Atè's hecatomb is living yet,
And where the towers in dusty ashes sink,
Rise the rich fumes of pomp and wealth consumed.
For this must all men pay unto the gods
The meed of mindful hearts and gratitude:
For by our hands the meshes of revenge
Closed on the prey, and for one woman's sake
Troy trodden by the Argive monster lies--
The foal, the shielded band that leapt the wall,
What time with autumn sank the Pleiades.
Yea, o'er the fencing wall a lion sprang
Ravening, and lapped his fill of blood of kings.

Such prelude spoken to the gods in full,
To you I turn, and to the hidden thing
Whereof ye spake but now: and in that thought
I am as you, and what ye say, say I.
For few are they who have such inborn grace,
As to look up with love, and envy not,
When stands another on the height of weal.
Deep in his heart, whom jealousy hath seized,
Her poison lurking doth enhance his load;
For now beneath his proper woes he chafes,
And sighs withal to see another's weal.

AGAMEMNON

I speak not idly, but from knowledge sure--
There be who vaunt an utter loyalty,
That is but as the ghost of friendship dead,
A shadow in a glass, of faith gone by.
One only--he who went reluctant forth
Across the seas with me--Odysseus--he
Was loyal unto me with strength and will,
A trusty trace-horse bound unto my car.
Thus--be he yet beneath the light of day,
Or dead, as well I fear--I speak his praise.

Lastly, whate'er be due to men or gods,
With joint debate, in public council held,
We will decide, and warily contrive
That all which now is well may so abide:
For that which haply needs the healer's art,
That will we medicine, discerning well
If cautery or knife befit the time.

Now, to my palace and the shrines of home,
I will pass in, and greet you first and fair,
Ye gods, who bade me forth, and home again--
And long may Victory tarry in my train!

[_Enter Clytemnestra, followed by maidens bearing purple robes._

CLYTEMNESTRA

Old men of Argos, lieges of our realm,
Shame shall not bid me shrink lest ye should see
The love I bear my lord. Such blushing fear
Dies at the last from hearts of human kind.
From mine own soul and from no alien lips,
I know and will reveal the life I bore,
Reluctant, through the lingering livelong years,
The while my lord beleaguered Ilion's wall.

First, that a wife sat sundered from her lord,
In widowed solitude, was utter woe--
And woe, to hear how rumour's many tongues
  All boded evil--woe, when he who came
  And he who followed spake of ill on ill,
  Keening _Lost, lost, all lost!_ thro' hail and bower.
  Had this my husband met so many wounds,
  As by a thousand channels rumour told,
  No network e'er was full of holes as he.
  Had he been slain, as oft as tidings came
  That he was dead, he well might boast him now
  A second Geryon of triple frame,
  With triple robe of earth above him laid--
  For that below, no matter--triply dead,
  Dead by one death for every form he bore.
  And thus distraught by news of wrath and woe,
  Oft for self-slaughter had I slung the noose,
  But others wrenched it from my neck away.
  Hence haps it that Orestes, thine and mine,
  The pledge and symbol of our wedded troth,
  Stands not beside us now, as he should stand.
  Nor marvel thou at this: he dwells with one
  Who guards him loyally; 'tis Phocis' king,
  Strophius, who warned me erst, _Bethink thee, queen,
  What woes of doubtful issue well may fall!
  Thy lord in daily jeopardy at Troy,
  While here a populace uncurbed may cry
  "Down with the council, down!" bethink thee too,
  'Tis the world's way to set a harder heel
  On fallen power._
                     For thy child's absence then
  Such mine excuse, no wily afterthought.
  For me, long since the gushing fount of tears
  Is wept away; no drop is left to shed.
  Dim are the eyes that ever watched till dawn,
  Weeping, the bale-fires, piled for thy return,
  Night after night unkindled. If I slept,
  Each sound--the tiny humming of a gnat,
  Roused me again, again, from fitful dreams
  Wherein I felt thee smitten, saw thee slain,
  Thrice for each moment of mine hour of sleep.

All this I bore, and now, released from woe,
I hail my lord as watch-dog of a fold,
As saving stay-rope of a storm-tossed ship,
As column stout that holds the roof aloft,
As only child unto a sire bereaved,
As land beheld, past hope, by crews forlorn,
As sunshine fair when tempest's wrath is past,
As gushing spring to thirsty wayfarer.
So sweet it is to 'scape the press of pain.
With such salute I bid my husband hail!
Nor heaven be wroth therewith! for long and hard
I bore that ire of old.
                        Sweet lord, step forth,
Step from thy car, I pray--nay, not on earth
Plant the proud foot, O king, that trod down Troy!
Women! why tarry ye, whose task it is
To spread your monarch's path with tapestry?
Swift, swift, with purple strew his passage fair,
That justice lead him to a home, at last,
He scarcely looked to see.
                           For what remains,
Zeal unsubdued by sleep shall nerve my hand
To work as right and as the gods command.

AGAMEMNON

Daughter of Leda, watcher o'er my home,
Thy greeting well befits mine absence long,
For late and hardly has it reached its end.
Know, that the praise which honour bids us crave,
Must come from others' lips, not from our own:
See too that not in fashion feminine
Thou make a warrior's pathway delicate;
Not unto me, as to some Eastern lord,
Bowing thyself to earth, make homage loud.
Strew not this purple that shall make each step
An arrogance; such pomp beseems the gods,
Not me. A mortal man to set his foot
On these rich dyes? I hold such pride in fear,
And bid thee honour me as man, not god.

  Fear not--such footcloths and all gauds apart,
  Loud from the trump of Fame my name is blown;
  Best gift of heaven it is, in glory's hour,
  To think thereon with soberness: and thou?
  Bethink thee of the adage, _Call none blest
  Till peaceful death have crowned a life of weal._
  'Tis said: I fain would fare unvexed by fear.

CLYTEMNESTRA

  Nay, but unsay it--thwart not thou my will!

AGAMEMNON

  Know, I have said, and will not mar my word.

CLYTEMNESTRA

  Was it fear made this meekness to the gods?

AGAMEMNON

  If cause be cause, 'tis mine for this resolve.

CLYTEMNESTRA

  What, think'st thou, in thy place had Priam done?


AGAMEMNON

  He surely would have walked on broidered robes.


CLYTEMNESTRA

  Then fear not thou the voice of human blame.

AGAMEMNON

 Yet mighty is the murmur of a crowd.

CLYTEMNESTRA

  Shrink not from envy, appanage of bliss.

AGAMEMNON

  War is not woman's part, nor war of words.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Yet happy victors well may yield therein.

AGAMEMNON

Dost crave for triumph in this petty strife?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Yield; of thy grace permit me to prevail!

AGAMEMNON

Then, if thou wilt, let some one stoop to loose
Swiftly these sandals, slaves beneath my foot:
And stepping thus upon the sea's rich dye,
I pray, _Let none among the gods look down
With jealous eye on me_--reluctant all,
To trample thus and mar a thing of price,
Wasting the wealth of garments silver-worth.
Enough hereof: and, for the stranger maid,
Lead her within, but gently: God on high
Looks graciously on him whom triumph's hour
Has made not pitiless. None willingly
Wear the slave's yoke--and she, the prize and flower
Of all we won, comes hither in my train,
Gift of the army to its chief and lord.
--Now, since in this my will bows down to thine,
I will pass in on purples to my home.

CLYTEMNESTRA

A Sea there is--and who shall stay its springs?
And deep within its breast, a mighty store,
Precious as silver, of the purple dye,
Whereby the dipped robe doth its tint renew.
Enough of such, O king, within thy halls
There lies, a store that cannot fail; but I--
I would have gladly vowed unto the gods
Cost of a thousand garments trodden thus,
(Had once the oracle such gift required)
Contriving ransom for thy life preserved.
  For while the stock is firm the foliage climbs,
  Spreading a shade what time the dog-star glows;
  And thou, returning to thine hearth and home,
  Art as a genial warmth in winter hours,
  Or as a coolness, when the lord of heaven
  Mellows the juice within the bitter grape.
  Such boons and more doth bring into a home
  The present footstep of its proper lord.
  Zeus, Zeus, Fulfilment's lord! my vows fulfil,
  And whatsoe'er it be, work forth thy will!

[_Exeunt all but Cassandra and the Chorus._

CHORUS

  Wherefore for ever on the wings of fear
    Hovers a vision drear
  Before my boding heart? a strain,
  Unbidden and unwelcome, thrills mine ear,
    Oracular of pain.
  Not as of old upon my bosom's throne
    Sits Confidence, to spurn
    Such fears, like dreams we know not to discern.
  Old, old and gray long since the time has grown,
    Which saw the linked cables moor
  The fleet, when erst it came to Ilion's sandy shore;
    And now mine eyes and not another's see
      Their safe return.

    Yet none the less in me
  The inner spirit sings a boding song,
    Self-prompted, sings the Furies' strain--
      And seeks, and seeks in vain,
      To hope and to be strong!

  Ah! to some end of Fate, unseen, unguessed,
    Are these wild throbbings of my heart and breast?
      Yea, of some doom they tell?
        Each pulse, a knell.
    Lief, lief I were, that all
  To unfulfilment's hidden realm might fall.

    Too far, too far our mortal spirits strive,
      Grasping at utter weal, unsatisfied--
    Till the fell curse, that dwelleth hard beside,
    Thrust down the sundering wall. Too fair they blow,
      The gales that waft our bark on Fortune's tide!
      Swiftly we sail, the sooner all to drive
      Upon the hidden rock, the reef of woe.

    Then if the hand of caution warily
      Sling forth into the sea
    Part of the freight, lest all should sink below,
    From the deep death it saves the bark: even so,
      Doom-laden though it be, once more may rise
      His household, who is timely wise.

      How oft the famine-stricken field
Is saved by God's large gift, the new year's yield!
        But blood of man once spilled,
    Once at his feet shed forth, and darkening the plain,--
      Nor chant nor charm can call it back again.

        So Zeus hath willed:
Else had he spared the leech Asclepius, skilled
    To bring man from the dead: the hand divine
Did smite himself with death--a warning and a sign.

    Ah me! if Fate, ordained of old,
Held not the will of gods constrained, controlled,
      Helpless to us ward, and apart--
      Swifter than speech my heart
Had poured its presage out!
Now, fretting, chafing in the dark of doubt,
    'Tis hopeless to unfold
Truth, from fear's tangled skein; and, yearning to proclaim
    Its thought, my soul is prophecy and flame.

_Re-enter_ CLYTEMNESTRA

Get thee within thou too, Cassandra, go!
For Zeus to thee in gracious mercy grants
To share the sprinklings of the lustral bowl,
Beside the altar of his guardianship,
Slave among many slaves.   What, haughty still?
Step from the car; Alcmena's son, 'tis said,
Was sold perforce and bore the yoke of old.
Ay, hard it is, but, if such fate befall,
'Tis a fair chance to serve within a home
Of ancient wealth and power. An upstart lord,
To whom wealth's harvest came beyond his hope,
Is as a lion to his slaves, in all
Exceeding fierce, immoderate in sway.
Pass in: thou hearest what our ways will be.

CHORUS

Clear unto thee, O maid, is her command,
But thou--within the toils of Fate thou art--
If such thy will, I urge thee to obey;
Yet I misdoubt thou dost nor hear nor heed.

CLYTEMNESTRA

I wot--unless like swallows she doth use
Some strange barbarian tongue from oversea--
My words must speak persuasion to her soul.

CHORUS

Obey: there is no gentler way than this.
Step from the car's high seat and follow her.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Truce to this bootless waiting here without!
I will not stay: beside the central shrine
The victims stand, prepared for knife and fire--
Offerings from hearts beyond all hope made glad.
Thou--if thou reckest aught of my command,
'Twere well done soon: but if thy sense be shut
From these my words, let thy barbarian hand
Fulfil by gesture the default of speech.

CHORUS

No native is she, thus to read thy words
Unaided: like some wild thing of the wood,
New-trapped, behold! she shrinks and glares on thee.

CLYTEMNESTRA

'Tis madness and the rule of mind distraught,
Since she beheld her city sink in fire,
And hither comes, nor brooks the bit, until
In foam and blood her wrath be champed away.
See ye to her; unqueenly 'tis for me,
Unheeded thus to cast away my words.

[_Exit Clytemnestra._

CHORUS

But with me pity sits in anger's place.
Poor maiden, come thou from the car; no way
There is but this--take up thy servitude.

CASSANDRA

Woe, woe, alas! Earth, Mother Earth! and thou
Apollo, Apollo!

CHORUS

Peace! shriek not to the bright prophetic god,
Who will not brook the suppliance of woe.

CASSANDRA

Woe, woe, alas! Earth, Mother Earth! and thou
Apollo, Apollo!

CHORUS

Hark, with wild curse she calls anew on him,
Who stands far off and loathes the voice of wail.

CASSANDRA

Apollo, Apollo!
God of all ways, but only Death's to me,
Once and again, O thou, Destroyer named,
Thou hast destroyed me, thou, my love of old!

CHORUS

She grows presageful of her woes to come,
Slave tho' she be, instinct with prophecy.

CASSANDRA

Apollo, Apollo!
God of all ways, but only Death's to me,
O thou Apollo, thou Destroyer named!
What way hast led me, to what evil home?

CHORUS

Know'st thou it not? The home of Atreus' race:
Take these my words for sooth and ask no more.

CASSANDRA

Home cursed of God! Bear witness unto me,
  Ye visioned woes within--
The blood-stained hands of them that smite their kin--
The strangling noose, and, spattered o'er
With human blood, the reeking floor!

CHORUS

How like a sleuth-hound questing on the track,
Keen-scented unto blood and death she hies!

CASSANDRA

Ah! can the ghostly guidance fail,
Whereby my prophet-soul is onwards led?
Look! for their flesh the spectre-children wail,
Their sodden limbs on which their father fed!

CHORUS

Long since we knew of thy prophetic fame,--
But for those deeds we seek no prophet's tongue.

CASSANDRA

God! 'tis another crime--
Worse than the storied woe of olden time,
Cureless  abhorred, that one is plotting here--
A shaming death, for those that should be dear!
  Alas! and far away, in foreign land,
  He that should help doth stand!

CHORUS

I knew th' old tales, the city rings withal--
But now thy speech is dark, beyond my ken.

CASSANDRA

O wretch, O purpose fell!
Thou for thy wedded lord
The cleansing wave hast poured--
A treacherous welcome!
                       How the sequel tell?
Too soon 'twill come, too soon, for now, even now,
She smites him, blow on blow!

CHORUS

Riddles beyond my rede--I peer in vain
Thro' the dim films that screen the prophecy.

CASSANDRA

God! a new sight! a net, a snare of hell,
Set by her hand--herself a snare more fell!
  A wedded wife, she slays her lord,
Helped by another hand!
                       Ye powers, whose hate
  Of Atreus' home no blood can satiate,
Raise the wild cry above the sacrifice abhorred!

CHORUS

Why biddest thou some fiend, I know not whom,
Shriek o'er the house? Thine is no cheering word.
  Back to my heart in frozen fear I feel
  My waning life-blood run--
  The blood that round the wounding steel
  Ebbs slow, as sinks life's parting sun--
Swift, swift and sure, some woe comes pressing on!

CASSANDRA

  Away, away--keep him away--
  The monarch of the herd, the pasture's pride,
  Far from his mate! In treach'rous wrath,
  Muffling his swarthy horns, with secret scathe
    She gores his fenceless side!
  Hark! in the brimming bath,
  The heavy plash--the dying cry--
Hark--in the laver--hark, he falls by treachery!

CHORUS

  I read amiss dark sayings such as thine,
  Yet something warns me that they tell of ill.
    O dark prophetic speech,
    Ill tidings dost thou teach
    Ever, to mortals here below!
    Ever some tale of awe and woe
    Thro' all thy windings manifold
    Do we unriddle and unfold!

CASSANDRA

  Ah well-a-day! the cup of agony,
  Whereof I chant, foams with a draught for me.
  Ah lord, ah leader, thou hast led me here--
  Was't but to die with thee whose doom is near?

CHORUS

  Distraught thou art, divinely stirred,
  And wailest for thyself a tuneless lay,
  As piteous as the ceaseless tale
  Wherewith the brown melodious bird
  Doth ever Itys! Itys! wail,
Deep-bowered in sorrow, all its little life-time's day!

CASSANDRA

  Ah for thy fate, O shrill-voiced nightingale!
  Some solace for thy woes did Heaven afford,
  Clothed thee with soft brown plumes, and life apart from wail?
  But for my death is edged the double-biting sword!

CHORUS

  What pangs are these, what fruitless pain,
    Sent on thee from on high?
  Thou chantest terror's frantic strain,
  Yet in shrill measured melody.
  How thus unerring canst thou sweep along
  The prophet's path of boding song?

CASSANDRA

  Woe, Paris, woe on thee! thy bridal joy
  Was death and fire upon thy race and Troy!
    And woe for thee, Scamander's flood!
    Beside thy banks, O river fair,
    I grew in tender nursing care
    From childhood unto maidenhood!
  Now not by thine, but by Cocytus' stream
  And Acheron's banks shall ring my boding scream.

CHORUS

  Too plain is all, too plain!
A child might read aright thy fateful strain.
  Deep in my heart their piercing fang
  Terror and sorrow set, the while I heard
  That piteous, low, tender word,
Yet to mine ear and heart a crushing pang.

CASSANDRA
  Woe for my city, woe for Ilion's fall!
    Father, how oft with sanguine stain
  Streamed on thine altar-stone the blood of cattle, slain
    That heaven might guard our wall!
    But all was shed in vain.
  Low lie the shattered towers whereas they fell,
  And I--ah burning heart!--shall soon lie low as well.

CHORUS

  Of sorrow is thy song, of sorrow still!
    Alas, what power of ill
  Sits heavy on thy heart and bids thee tell
  In tears of perfect moan thy deadly tale?
Some woe--I know not what--must close thy piteous wail.

CASSANDRA

  List! for no more the presage of my soul,
  Bride-like, shall peer from its secluding veil;
  But as the morning wind blows clear the east,
  More bright shall blow the wind of prophecy,
  And as against the low bright line of dawn
  Heaves high and higher yet the rolling wave,
  So in the clearing skies of prescience
  Dawns on my soul a further, deadlier woe,
  And I will speak, but in dark speech no more.
  Bear witness, ye, and follow at my side--
  I scent the trail of blood, shed long ago.
  Within this house a choir abidingly
  Chants in harsh unison the chant of ill;
  Yea, and they drink, for more enhardened joy,
  Man's blood for wine, and revel in the halls,
  Departing never, Furies of the home.
  They sit within, they chant the primal curse,
  Each spitting hatred on that crime of old,
  The brother's couch, the love incestuous
  That brought forth hatred to the ravisher.
  Say, is my speech or wild and erring now,
  Or doth its arrow cleave the mark indeed?
  They called me once, _The prophetess of lies,
  The wandering hag, the pest of every door--_
  Attest ye now, She knows in very sooth
  _The house's curse, the storied infamy._

CHORUS

  Yet how should oath--how loyally soe'er
  I swear it--aught avail thee? In good sooth,

AGAMEMNON

My wonder meets thy claim: I stand amazed
That thou, a maiden born beyond the seas,
Dost as a native know and tell aright
Tales of a city of an alien tongue.


CASSANDRA

That is my power--a boon Apollo gave.

CHORUS

God though he were, yearning for mortal maid?

CASSANDRA

Ay! what seemed shame of old is shame no more.


CHORUS

Such finer sense suits not with slavery.

CASSANDRA

He strove to win me, panting for my love.

CHORUS

Came ye by compact unto bridal joys?

CASSANDRA

Nay--for I plighted troth, then foiled the god.

CHORUS

Wert thou already dowered with prescience?

CASSANDRA

Yea--prophetess to Troy of all her doom.

CHORUS

How left thee then Apollo's wrath unscathed?

CASSANDRA

I, false to him, seemed prophet false to all.

CHORUS

Not so--to us at least thy words seem sooth.

CASSANDRA

Woe for me, woe! Again the agony--
Dread pain that sees the future all too well
With ghastly preludes whirls and racks my soul.
Behold ye--yonder on the palace roof
The spectre-children sitting--look, such things
As dreams are made on, phantoms as of babes,
Horrible shadows, that a kinsman's hand
Hath marked with murder, and their arms are full--
A rueful burden--see, they hold them up,
The entrails upon which their father fed!

For this, for this, I say there plots revenge
A coward lion, couching in the lair--
Guarding the gate against my master's foot--
My master--mine--I bear the slave's yoke now,
And he, the lord of ships, who trod down Troy,
Knows not the fawning treachery of tongue
Of this thing false and dog-like--how her speech
Glozes and sleeks her purpose, till she win
By ill fate's favour the desired chance,
Moving like Atè to a secret end.
O aweless soul! the woman slays her lord--
Woman? what loathsome monster of the earth
Were fit comparison? The double snake--
Or Scylla, where she dwells, the seaman's bane,
Girt round about with rocks? some hag of hell,
Raving a truceless curse upon her kin?
Hark--even now she cries exultingly
The vengeful cry that tells of battle turned--
How fain, forsooth, to greet her chief restored!
Nay then, believe me not: what skills belief
Or disbelief? Fate works its will--and thou
Wilt see and say in ruth, _Her tale was true._

CHORUS

Ah--'tis Thyestes' feast on kindred flesh--
I guess her meaning and with horror thrill,
Hearing no shadow'd hint of th' o'er-true tale,
But its full hatefulness: yet, for the rest,
Far from the track I roam, and know no more.

CASSANDRA

'Tis Agamemnon's doom thou shalt behold.

CHORUS

Peace, hapless woman, to thy boding words!

CASSANDRA

Far from my speech stands he who sains and saves.

CHORUS

Ay--were such doom at hand--which God forbid!

CASSANDRA

Thou prayest idly--these move swift to slay.

CHORUS

What man prepares a deed of such despite?

CASSANDRA

Fool! thus to read amiss mine oracles.

CHORUS

Deviser and device are dark to me.

CASSANDRA

Dark! all too well I speak the Grecian tongue.

CHORUS

Ay--but in thine, as in Apollo's strains,
Familiar is the tongue, but dark the thought.

CASSANDRA

Ah ah the fire! it waxes, nears me now--
Woe, woe for me, Apollo of the dawn!

Lo, how the woman-thing, the lioness
Couched with the wolf--her noble mate afar--
Will slay me, slave forlorn! Yea, like some witch
She drugs the cup of wrath, that slays her lord
With double death--his recompense for me!
Ay, 'tis for me, the prey he bore from Troy,
That she hath sworn his death, and edged the steel!
Ye wands, ye wreaths that cling around my neck,
Ye showed me prophetess yet scorned of all--
I stamp you into death, or e'er I die--
Down, to destruction!
                      Thus I stand revenged--
Go, crown some other with a prophet's woe.
Look! it is he, it is Apollo's self
Rending from me the prophet-robe he gave
God! while I wore it yet, thou saw'st me mocked
There at my home by each malicious mouth--
To all and each, an undivided scorn.
The name alike and fate of witch and cheat--
Woe, poverty, and famine--all I bore;
And at this last the god hath brought me here
Into death's toils, and what his love had made
His hate unmakes me now: and I shall stand
Not now before the altar of my home,
But me a slaughter-house and block of blood
Shall see hewn down, a reeking sacrifice.
Yet shall the gods have heed of me who die,
For by their will shall one requite my doom.
He, to avenge his father's blood outpoured,
Shall smite and slay with matricidal hand.
Ay, he shall come--tho' far away he roam,
A banished wanderer in a stranger's land--
To crown his kindred's edifice of ill,
Called home to vengeance by his father's fall:
Thus have the high gods sworn, and shall fulfil.

And now why mourn I, tarrying on earth,
Since first mine Ilion has found its fate
And I beheld, and those who won the wall
Pass to such issue as the gods ordain?
I too will pass and like them dare to die!

[_Turns and looks upon the palace door._

Portal of Hades, thus I bid thee hail!
Grant me one boon--a swift and mortal stroke,
That all unwrung by pain, with ebbing blood
Shed forth in quiet death, I close mine eyes.

CHORUS

Maid of mysterious woes, mysterious lore,
Long was thy prophecy: but if aright
Thou readest all thy fate, how, thus unscared,
Dost thou approach the altar of thy doom,
As fronts the knife some victim, heaven-controlled?

CASSANDRA

Friends, there is no avoidance in delay.

CHORUS

Yet who delays the longest, his the gain.

CASSANDRA

The day is come--flight were small gain to me!

CHORUS

O brave endurance of a soul resolved!

CASSANDRA

That were ill praise, for those of happier doom.

CHORUS

All fame is happy, even famous death.

CASSANDRA

Ah sire, ah brethren, famous once were ye!

[_She moves to enter the house, then starts back._

CHORUS

What fear is this that scares thee from the house?

CASSANDRA

Pah!

CHORUS

What is this cry? some dark despair of soul?

CASSANDRA

Pah! the house fumes with stench and spilth of blood.

CHORUS

How? 'tis the smell of household offerings.


CASSANDRA

'Tis rank as charnel-scent from open graves.

CHORUS

Thou canst not mean this scented Syrian nard?

CASSANDRA

Nay, let me pass within to cry aloud
The monarch's fate and mine--enough of life.
Ah friends!
Bear to me witness, since I fall in death,
That not as birds that shun the bush and scream
I moan in idle terror. This attest
When for my death's revenge another dies,
A woman for a woman, and a man
Falls, for a man ill-wedded to his curse.
Grant me this boon--the last before I die.

CHORUS

Brave to the last! I mourn thy doom foreseen.

CASSANDRA
Once more one utterance, but not of wail,
Though for my death--and then I speak no more.

I thou whose beam I shall not see again,
To thee I cry, Let those whom vengeance calls
To slay their kindred's slayers, quit withal
The death of me, the slave, the fenceless prey.

Ah state of mortal man! in time of weal,
A line, a shadow! and if ill fate fall,
One wet sponge-sweep wipes all our trace away--
And this I deem less piteous, of the twain.

[_Exit into the palace._

CHORUS

Too true it is! our mortal state
With bliss is never satiate,
And none, before the palace high
And stately of prosperity,
Cries to us with a voice of fear,
_Away! 'tis ill to enter here!_

Lo! this our lord hath trodden down,
By grace of heaven, old Priam's town,
  And praised as god he stands once more
  On Argos' shore!
Yet now--if blood shed long ago
Cries out that other blood shall flow--
His life-blood, his, to pay again
The stern requital of the slain--
Peace to that braggart's vaunting vain,
Who, having heard the chieftain's tale,
Yet boasts of bliss untouched by bale!

[_A loud cry from within._

VOICE OF AGAMEMNON

O I am sped--a deep, a mortal blow.

CHORUS

Listen, listen! who is screaming as in mortal agony?

VOICE OF AGAMEMNON

O! O! again, another, another blow!

CHORUS

The bloody act is over--I have heard the monarch cry--
Let us swiftly take some counsel, lest we too be doomed to die.

ONE OF THE CHORUS

'Tis best, I judge, aloud for aid to call,
"Ho! loyal Argives! to the palace, all!"

ANOTHER

Better, I deem, ourselves to bear the aid,
And drag the deed to light, while drips the blade.

ANOTHER

Such will is mine, and what thou say'st I say:
Swiftly to act! the time brooks no delay.

ANOTHER

Ay, for 'tis plain, this prelude of their song
Foretells its close in tyranny and wrong.

ANOTHER

Behold, we tarry--but thy name, Delay,
They spurn, and press with sleepless hand to slay.

ANOTHER

I know not what 'twere well to counsel now--
Who wills to act, 'tis his to counsel how.

ANOTHER

Thy doubt is mine: for when a man is slain,
I have no words to bring his life again.

ANOTHER

What? e'en for life's sake, bow us to obey
These house-defilers and their tyrant sway?

ANOTHER

Unmanly doom! 'twere better far to die--
Death is a gentler lord than tyranny.

ANOTHER

Think well--must cry or sign of woe or pain
Fix our conclusion that the chief is slain?

ANOTHER

Such talk befits us when the deed we see--
Conjecture dwells afar from certainty.

LEADER OF THE CHORUS

I read one will from many a diverse word,
To know aright, how stands it with our lord!

[_The scene opens, disclosing Clytemnestra, who comes forward. The
body of Agamemnon lies, muffled in a long robe, within a silver-sided
laver; the corpse of Cassandra is laid beside him._


CLYTEMNESTRA

Ho, ye who heard me speak so long and oft
The glozing word that led me to my will?
Hear how I shrink not to unsay it all!
How else should one who willeth to requite
Evil for evil to an enemy
Disguised as  friend, weave the mesh straitly round him,
Not to be overleaped, a net of doom?
This is the sum and issue of old strife,
Of me deep-pondered and at length fulfilled.
All is avowed, and as I smote I stand
With foot set firm upon a finished thing!
I turn not to denial: thus I wrought
So that he could nor flee nor ward his doom,
Even as the trammel hems the scaly shoal,
I trapped him with inextricable toils,
The ill abundance of a baffling robe;
Then smote him, once, again--and at each wound
He cried aloud, then as in death relaxed
Each limb and sank to earth; and as he lay,
Once more I smote him, with the last third blow,
Sacred to Hades, saviour of the dead.
And thus he fell, and as he passed away,
Spirit with body chafed; each dying breath
Flung from his breast swift bubbling jets of gore,
And the dark sprinklings of the rain of blood
Fell upon me; and I was fain to feel
That dew--not sweeter is the rain of heaven
To cornland, when the green sheath teems with grain,

Elders of Argos--since the thing stands so,
I bid you to rejoice, if such your will:
Rejoice or not, I vaunt and praise the deed,
And well I ween, if seemly it could be,
'Twere not ill done to pour libations here,
Justly--ay, more than justly--on his corpse
Who filled his home with curses as with wine,
And thus returned to drain the cup he filled.

CHORUS

I marvel at thy tongue's audacity,
To vaunt thus loudly o'er a husband slain.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Ye hold me as a woman, weak of will,
And strive to sway me: but my heart is stout,
Nor fears to speak its uttermost to you,
Albeit ye know its message. Praise or blame,
Even as ye list,--I reck not of your words.
Lo! at my feet lies Agamemnon slain,
My husband once--and him this hand of mine,
A right contriver, fashioned for his death.
Behold the deed!

CHORUS

  Woman, what deadly birth,
What venomed essence of the earth
Or dark distilment of the wave,
To thee such passion gave,
Nerving thine hand
To set upon thy brow this burning crown,
The curses of thy land?
_Our king by thee cut off, hewn down!
Go forth--they cry--accursèd and forlorn,
To hate and scorn!_

CLYTEMNESTRA

O ye just men, who speak my sentence now,
The city's hate, the ban of all my realm!
Ye had no voice of old to launch such doom
On him, my husband, when he held as light
My daughter's life as that of sheep or goat,
One victim from the thronging fleecy fold!
Yea, slew in sacrifice his child and mine,
The well-loved issue of my travail-pangs,
To lull and lay the gales that blew from Thrace.
That deed of his, I say, that stain and shame,
Had rightly been atoned by banishment;
But ye, who then were dumb, are stern to judge
This deed of mine that doth affront your ears.
Storm out your threats, yet knowing this for sooth,
That I am ready, if your hand prevail
As mine now doth, to bow beneath your sway:
If God say nay, it shall be yours to learn
By chastisement a late humility.

CHORUS

Bold is thy craft, and proud
Thy confidence, thy vaunting loud;
Thy soul, that chose a murd'ress' fate,
Is all with blood elate--
Maddened to know
The blood not yet avenged, the damnèd spot
Crimson upon thy brow.
But Fate prepares for thee thy lot--
Smitten as thou didst smite, without a friend,
To meet thine end!

CLYTEMNESTRA

Hear then the sanction of the oath I swear?
By the great vengeance for my murdered child,
By Atè, by the Fury unto whom
This man lies sacrificed by hand of mine,
I do not look to tread the hall of Fear,
While in this hearth and home of mine there burns
The light of love--Aegisthus--as of old
Loyal, a stalwart shield of confidence--
As true to me as this slain man was false,
Wronging his wife with paramours at Troy,
Fresh from the kiss of each Chryseis there!
Behold him dead--behold his captive prize,
Seeress and harlot--comfort of his bed,
True prophetess, true paramour--I wot
The sea-bench was not closer to the flesh,
Full oft, of every rower, than was she.
See, ill they did, and ill requites them now.
His death ye know: she as a dying swan
Sang her last dirge, and lies, as erst she lay,
Close to his side, and to my couch has left
A sweet new taste of joys that know no fear.

CHORUS

Ah woe and well-a-day! I would that Fate--
Not bearing agony too great,
Nor stretching me too long on couch of pain--
Would bid mine eyelids keep
The morningless and unawakening sleep!
For life is weary, now my lord is slain,
The gracious among kings!
Hard fate of old he bore and many grievous things,
And for a woman's sake, on Ilian land--
Now is his life hewn down, and by a woman's hand.
    O Helen, O infatuate soul,
    Who bad'st the tides of battle roll,
    Overwhelming thousands, life on life,
    'Neath Ilion's wall!
And now lies dead the lord of all.
  The blossom of thy storied sin
  Bears blood's inexpiable stain,
  O thou that erst, these halls within,
  Wert unto all a rock of strife,
    A husband's bane!

CLYTEMNESTRA

Peace! pray not thou for death as though
Thine heart was whelmed beneath this woe,
Nor turn thy wrath aside to ban
The name of Helen, nor recall
How she, one bane of many a man,
Sent down to death the Danaan lords,
To sleep at Troy the sleep of swords,
And wrought the woe that shattered all.

CHORUS

Fiend of the race! that swoopest fell
  Upon the double stock of Tantalus,
Lording it o'er me by a woman's will,
  Stern, manful, and imperious?
    A bitter sway to me!
    Thy very form I see,
  Like some grim raven, perched upon the slain,
Exulting o'er the crime, aloud, in tuneless strain!

CLYTEMNESTRA

Right was that word--thou namest well
The brooding race-fiend, triply fell!
From him it is that murder's thirst,
Blood-lapping, inwardly is nursed--
Ere time the ancient scar can sain,
New blood comes welling forth again.

CHORUS

Grim is his wrath and heavy on our home,
  That fiend of whom thy voice has cried,
Alas, an omened cry of woe unsatisfied,
  An all-devouring doom!

Ah woe, ah Zeus! from Zeus all things befall--
  Zeus the high cause and finisher of all!--
Lord of our mortal state, by him are willed
  All things, by him fulfilled!

Yet ah my king, my king no more!
What words to say, what tears to pour
  Can tell my love for thee?
The spider-web of treachery
She wove and wound, thy life around,
  And lo! I see thee lie,
And thro' a coward, impious wound
  Pant forth thy life and die!
A death of shame--ah woe on woe!
A treach'rous hand, a cleaving blow!

CLYTEMNESTRA

My guilt thou harpest, o'er and o'er!
I bid thee reckon me no more
  As Agamemnon's spouse.
The old Avenger, stern of mood
For Atreus and his feast of blood,
  Hath struck the lord of Atreus' house,
And in the semblance of his wife
  The king hath slain.--
Yea, for the murdered children's life,
  A chieftain's in requital ta'en.

CHORUS

Thou guiltless of this murder, thou!
  Who dares such thought avow?
  Yet it may be, wroth for the parent's deed,
  The fiend hath holpen thee to slay the son.
    Dark Ares, god of death, is pressing on
    Thro' streams of blood by kindred shed,
    Exacting the accompt for children dead,
For clotted blood, for flesh on which their sire did feed.

      Yet ah my king, my king no more!
      What words to say, what tears to pour
        Can tell my love for thee?
      The spider-web of treachery
      She wove and wound, thy life around,
        And lo! I see thee lie,
      And thro' a coward, impious wound
        Pant forth thy life and die!
      A death of shame--ah woe on woe!
      A treach'rous hand, a cleaving blow!

CLYTEMNESTRA

     I deem not that the death he died
       Had overmuch of shame:
     For this was he who did provide
       Foul wrong unto his house and name:
     His daughter, blossom of my womb,
     He gave unto a deadly doom,
     Iphigenia, child of tears!
     And as he wrought, even so he fares.
     Nor be his vaunt too loud in hell;
     For by the sword his sin he wrought,
     And by the sword himself is brought
       Among the dead to dwell.

CHORUS

    Ah whither shall I fly?
For all in ruin sinks the kingly hall;
Nor swift device nor shift of thought have I,
    To 'scape its fall.
A little while the gentler rain-drops fail;
I stand distraught--a ghastly interval,
  Till on the roof-tree rings the bursting hail
  Of blood and doom. Even now fate whets the steel
  On whetstones new and deadlier than of old,
    The steel that smites, in Justice' hold,
    Another death to deal.
  O Earth! that I had lain at rest
  And lapped for ever in thy breast,
  Ere I had seen my chieftain fall
  Within the laver's silver wall,
  Low-lying on dishonoured bier!
  And who shall give him sepulchre,
  And who the wail of sorrow pour?
  Woman, 'tis thine no more!
  A graceless gift unto his shade
  Such tribute, by his murd'ress paid!
  Strive not thus wrongly to atone
  The impious deed thy hand hath done.
  Ah who above the god-like chief
  Shall weep the tears of loyal grief?
  Who speak above his lowly grave
  The last sad praises of the brave?

CLYTEMNESTRA

    Peace! for such task is none of thine.
      By me he fell, by me he died,
    And now his burial rites be mine!
    Yet from these halls no mourners' train
      Shall celebrate his obsequies;
    Only by Acheron's rolling tide
    His child shall spring unto his side,
      And in a daughter's loving wise
    Shall clasp and kiss him once again!

CHORUS

Lo! sin by sin and sorrow dogg'd by sorrow--
    And who the end can know?
The slayer of to-day shall die to-morrow--
    The wage of wrong is woe.
While Time shall be, while Zeus in heaven is lord,
    His law is fixed and stern;
On him that wrought shall vengeance be outpoured--
    The tides of doom return.
The children of the curse abide within
    These halls of high estate--
And none can wrench from off the home of sin
    The clinging grasp of fate.

CLYTEMNESTRA

    Now walks thy word aright, to tell
    This ancient truth of oracle;
    But I with vows of sooth will pray
    To him, the power that holdeth sway
      O'er all the race of Pleisthenes--
    _Tho' dark the deed and deep the guilt,
    With this last blood, my hands have spilt,
      I pray thee let thine anger cease!
    I pray thee pass from us away
      To some new race in other lands,
    There, if than wilt, to wrong and slay
      The lives of men by kindred hands._

    For me 'tis all sufficient meed,
    Tho' little wealth or power were won,
    So I can say, _'Tis past and done.
    The bloody lust and murderous,
    The inborn frenzy of our house,
      Is ended, by my deed!_

[_Enter Aegisthus._

AEGISTHUS

Dawn of the day of rightful vengeance, hail!
I dare at length aver that gods above
Have care of men and heed of earthly wrongs.
I, I who stand and thus exult to see
This man lie wound in robes the Furies wove,
Slain in requital of his father's craft.
Take ye the truth, that Atreus, this man's sire,
The lord and monarch of this land of old,
  Held with my sire Thyestes deep dispute,
  Brother with brother, for the prize of sway,
  And drave him from his home to banishment.
  Thereafter, the lorn exile homeward stole
  And clung a suppliant to the hearth divine,
  And for himself won this immunity?
  Not with his own blood to defile the land
  That gave him birth. But Atreus, godless sire
  Of him who here lies dead, this welcome planned--
  With zeal that was not love he feigned to hold
  In loyal joy a day of festal cheer,
  And bade my father to his board, and set
  Before him flesh that was his children once.
  First, sitting at the upper board alone,
  He hid the fingers and the feet, but gave
  The rest--and readily Thyestes took
  What to his ignorance no semblance wore
  Of human flesh, and ate: behold what curse
  That eating brought upon our race and name!
  For when he knew what all unhallowed thing
  He thus had wrought, with horror's bitter cry
  Back-starting, spewing forth the fragments foul,
  On Pelops' house a deadly curse he spake?
  _As darkly as I spurn this damned food,
  So perish all the race of Pleisthenes!_
  Thus by that curse fell he whom here ye see,
  And I--who else?--this murder wove and planned;
  For me, an infant yet in swaddling bands,
  Of the three children youngest, Atreus sent
  To banishment by my sad father's side:
  But Justice brought me home once more, grown now
  To manhood's years; and stranger tho' I was,
  My right hand reached unto the chieftain's life,
  Plotting and planning all that malice bade.
  And death itself were honour now to me,
  Beholding him in Justice' ambush ta'en.

CHORUS
Aegisthus, for this insolence of thine
That vaunts itself in evil, take my scorn.
Of thine own will, thou sayest, thou hast slain
The chieftain, by thine own unaided plot
Devised the piteous death: I rede thee well,
Think not thy head shall 'scape, when right prevails,
The people's ban, the stones of death and doom.

AEGISTHUS

This word from thee, this word from one who rows
Low at the oars beneath, what time we rule,
We of the upper tier? Thou'lt know anon,
'Tis bitter to be taught again in age,
By one so young, submission at the word.
But iron of the chain and hunger's throes
Can minister unto an o'erswoln pride
Marvellous well, ay, even in the old.
Hast eyes, and seest not this? Peace--kick not thus
Against the pricks, unto thy proper pain!

CHORUS

Thou womanish man, waiting till war did cease,
Home-watcher and defiler of the couch,
And arch-deviser of the chieftain's doom!

AEGISTHUS

Bold words again! but they shall end in tears.
The very converse, thine, of Orpheus' tongue:
He roused and led in ecstasy of joy
All things that heard his voice melodious;
But thou as with the futile cry of curs
Wilt draw men wrathfully upon thee. Peace!
Or strong subjection soon shall tame thy tongue.

CHORUS

Ay, thou art one to hold an Argive down--
Thou, skilled to plan the murder of the king,
But not with thine own hand to smite the blow!
AEGISTHUS

That fraudful force was woman's very part,
Not mine, whom deep suspicion from of old
Would have debarred. Now by his treasure's aid
My purpose holds to rule the citizens.
But whoso will not bear my guiding hand,
Him for his corn-fed mettle I will drive
Not as a trace-horse, light-caparisoned,
But to the shafts with heaviest harness bound.
Famine, the grim mate of the dungeon dark,
Shall look on him and shall behold him tame.

CHORUS

Thou losel soul, was then thy strength too slight
To deal in murder, while a woman's hand,
Staining and shaming Argos and its gods,
Availed to slay him? Ho, if anywhere
The light of life smite on Orestes' eyes,
Let him, returning by some guardian fate,
Hew down with force her paramour and her!

AEGISTHUS

How thy word and act shall issue, thou shalt shortly understand.

CHORUS

Up to action, O my comrades! for the fight is hard at hand
Swift, your right hands to the sword hilt! bare the weapon as for
strife--

AEGISTHUS

Lo! I too am standing ready, hand on hilt for death or life.

CHORUS

'Twas thy word and we accept it: onward to the chance of war!

CLYTEMNESTRA

  Nay, enough, enough, my champion! we will smite and slay
        no more.
  Already have we reaped enough the harvest-field of guilt:
  Enough of wrong and murder, let no other blood be spilt.
  Peace, old men! and pass away unto the homes by Fate decreed,
  Lest ill valour meet our vengeance--'twas a necessary deed.
  But enough of toils and troubles--be the end, if ever, now,
  Ere thy talon, O Avenger, deal another deadly blow.
  'Tis a woman's word of warning, and let who will  list thereto.

AEGISTHUS

  But that these should loose and lavish reckless blossoms of the tongue,
  And in hazard of their fortune cast upon me words of wrong,

  And forget the law of subjects, and revile their  ruler's word--

CHORUS

  Ruler? but 'tis not for Argives, thus to own a dastard lord!

AEGISTHUS

  I will follow to chastise thee in my coming days of sway.

CHORUS

  Not if Fortune guide Orestes safely on his homeward way.

AEGISTHUS

  Ah, well I know how exiles feed on hopes of their return.

CHORUS

  Fare and batten on pollution of the right, while 'tis thy turn.

AEGISTHUS

  Thou shalt pay, be well assured, heavy quittance for thy pride

CHORUS

Crow and strut, with her to watch thee, like a cock, his mate beside!

CLYTEMNESTRA

Heed not thou too highly of them--let the cur-pack growl and yell:
I and thou will rule the palace and will order all things well.

[_Exeunt_.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOUSE OF ATREUS

BEING

THE AGAMEMNON, THE LIBATION-BEARERS,
AND THE FURIES OF AESCHYLUS

THE LIBATION-BEARERS

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

ORESTES
CHORUS OF CAPTIVE WOMEN
ELECTRA
A NURSE
CLYTEMNESTRA
AEGISTHUS
AN ATTENDANT
PYLADES

_The Scene is the Tomb of Agamemnon at Mycenae; afterwards, the
Palace of Atreus, hard by the Tomb._

_Orestes_

Lord of the shades and patron of the realm
That erst my father swayed, list now my prayer,
Hermes, and save me with thine aiding arm,
Me who from banishment returning stand
On this my country; lo, my foot is set
On this grave-mound, and herald-like, as thou,
Once and again, I bid my father hear.
And these twin locks, from mine head shorn, I bring,
And one to Inachus the river-god,
My young life's nurturer, I dedicate,
And one in sign of mourning unfulfilled
I lay, though late, on this my father's grave.
For O my father, not beside thy corse
Stood I to wail thy death, nor was my hand
Stretched out to bear thee forth to burial.

What sight is yonder? what this woman-throng
Hitherward coming, by their sable garb
Made manifest as mourners?   What hath chanced?
Doth some new sorrow hap within the home?
Or rightly may I deem that they draw near
Bearing libations, such as soothe the ire
Of dead men angered, to my father's grave?
Nay, such they are indeed; for I descry
Electra mine own sister pacing hither,
In moody grief conspicuous. Grant, O Zeus,
Grant me my father's murder to avenge--
Be thou my willing champion!
                              Pylades,
Pass we aside, till rightly I discern
Wherefore these women throng in suppliance.

[_Exeunt Pylades and Orestes; enter the Chorus bearing vessels for
libation; Electra follows them; they pace slowly towards the tomb of
Agamemnon_.

CHORUS

Forth from the royal halls by high command
  I bear libations for the dead.
Rings on my smitten breast my smiting hand,
  And all my cheek is rent and red,
Fresh-furrowed by my nails, and all my soul
This many a day doth feed on cries of dole.
  And trailing tatters of my vest,
In looped and windowed raggedness forlorn,
  Hang rent around my breast,
Even as I, by blows of Fate most stern
  Saddened and torn.

  Oracular thro' visions, ghastly clear,
Bearing a blast of wrath from realms below,
And stiffening each rising hair with dread,
  Came out of dream-land Fear,
  And, loud and awful, bade
The shriek ring out at midnight's witching hour,
  And brooded, stern with woe,
Above the inner house, the woman's bower.
And seers inspired did read the dream on oaths,
  Chanting aloud _In realms below
    The dead are wroth;
Against their slayers yet their ire doth glow_.

Therefore to bear this gift of graceless worth--
  O Earth, my nursing mother!--
The woman god-accurs'd doth send me forth.
  Lest one crime bring another.
Ill is the very word to speak, for none
       Can ransom or atone
For blood once shed and darkening the plain.
    O hearth of woe and bane,
    O state that low doth lie!
Sunless, accursed of men, the shadows brood
  Above the home of murdered majesty.

Rumour of might, unquestioned, unsubdued,
Pervading ears and soul of lesser men,
    Is silent now and dead.
    Yet rules a viler dread;
  For bliss and power, however won,
As gods, and more than gods, dazzle our mortal ken.

Justice doth mark, with scales that swiftly sway,
  Some that are yet in light;
  Others in interspace of day and night,
    Till Fate arouse them, stay;
And some are lapped in night, where all things are undone.

On the life-giving lap of Earth
   Blood hath flowed forth;
And now, the seed of vengeance, clots the plain--
  Unmelting, uneffaced the stain.
And Atè tarries long, but at the last
        The sinner's heart is cast
Into pervading, waxing pangs of pain.

  Lo, when man's force doth ope
The virgin doors, there is nor cure nor hope
  For what is lost,--even so, I deem,
Though in one channel ran Earth's every stream,
  Laving the hand defiled from murder's stain,
      It were vain.

And upon me--ah me!--the gods have laid
  The woe that wrapped round Troy,
What time they led down from home and kin
      Unto a slave's employ--
    The doom to bow the head
    And watch our master's will
      Work deeds of good and ill--
To see the headlong sway of force and sin,
  And hold restrained the spirit's bitter hate,
  Wailing the monarch's fruitless fate,
Hiding my face within my robe, and fain
Of tears, and chilled with frost of hidden pain.

ELECTRA

Hand maidens, orderers of the palace-halls,
Since at my side ye come, a suppliant train,
Companions of this offering, counsel me
As best befits the time: for I, who pour
Upon the grave these streams funereal,
With what fair word can I invoke my sire?
Shall I aver, _Behold, I bear these gifts
From well-beloved wife unto her well-beloved lord_,
When 'tis from her, my mother, that they come?
I dare not say it: of all words I fail
Wherewith to consecrate unto my sire
These sacrificial honours on his grave.
Or shall I speak this word, as mortals use--
_Give back, to those who send these coronals
Full recompense--of ills for acts malign?
Or shall I pour this draught for Earth to drink_,
Sans word or reverence, as my sire was slain,
And homeward pass with unreverted eyes,
Casting the bowl away, as one who flings
The household cleansings to the common road?
Be art and part, O friends, in this my doubt,
Even as ye are in that one common hate
Whereby we live attended: fear ye not
The wrath of any man, nor hide your word
Within your breast: the day of death and doom
Awaits alike the freeman and the slave.
Speak, then, if aught thou know'st to aid us more.

CHORUS

Thou biddest; I will speak my soul's thought out,
Revering as a shrine thy father's grave.

ELECTRA

Say then thy say, as thou his tomb reverest.

CHORUS

Speak solemn words to them that love, and pour.

ELECTRA

And of his kin whom dare I name as kind?

CHORUS

Thyself; and next, whoe'er Aegisthus scorns.

ELECTRA

Then 'tis myself and thou, my prayer must name.

CHORUS

Whoe'er they be, 'tis thine to know and name them.

ELECTRA

Is there no other we may claim as ours?

CHORUS

Think of Orestes, though far-off he be.

ELECTRA

Right well in this too hast thou schooled my thought.

CHORUS

Mindfully, next, on those who shed the blood--

ELECTRA

Pray on them what? expound, instruct my doubt.

CHORUS

This; _Upon them some god or mortal come_----

ELECTRA

As judge or as avenger? speak thy thought.

CHORUS

Pray in set terms, _Who shall the slayer slay_.

ELECTRA

Beseemeth it to ask such boon of heaven?

CHORUS

How not, to wreak a wrong upon a foe?

ELECTRA

O mighty Hermes, warder of the shades,
Herald of upper and of under world,
Proclaim and usher down my prayer's appeal
Unto the gods below, that they with eyes
Watchful behold these halls, my sire's of old--
And unto Earth, the mother of all things,
And foster-nurse, and womb that takes their seed.

Lo, I that pour these draughts for men now dead,
Call on my father, who yet holds in ruth
Me and mine own Orestes, _Father, speak--
How shall thy children rule thine halls again?
Homeless we are and sold; and she who sold
Is she who bore us; and the price she took
Is he who joined with her to work thy death_,
_Aegisthus, her new lord. Behold me here
Brought down to slave's estate, and far away
Wanders Orestes, banished from the wealth
That once was thine, the profit of thy care,
Whereon these revel in a shameful joy.
Father, my prayer is said; 'tis thine to hear--
Grant that some fair fate bring Orestes home,
And unto me grant these--a purer soul
Than is my mother's, a more stainless hand._

These be my prayers for us; for thee, O sire,
I cry that one may come to smite thy foes,
And that the slayers may in turn be slain.
Cursed is their prayer, and thus I bar its path,
Praying mine own, a counter-curse on them.
And thou, send up to us the righteous boon
For which we pray: thine aids be heaven and earth,
And justice guide the right to victory,

[_To the Chorus_

Thus have I prayed, and thus I shed these streams,
And follow ye the wont, and as with flowers
Crown ye with many a tear and cry the dirge,
Your lips ring out above the dead man's grave.

[_She pours the libations_.

CHORUS

      Woe, woe, woe!
Let the teardrop fall, plashing on the ground
      Where our lord lies low:
Fall and cleanse away the cursed libation's stain,
      Shed on this grave-mound,
Fenced wherein together, gifts of good or bane
      From the dead are found.
        Lord of Argos, hearken!
Though around thee darken
  Mist of death and hell, arise and hear!
Hearken and awaken to our cry of woe!
      Who with might of spear
        Shall our home deliver?
      Who like Ares bend until it quiver,
      Bend the northern bow?
Who with hand upon the hilt himself will thrust with glaive,
      Thrust and slay and save?

ELECTRA

    Lo! the earth drinks them, to my sire they pass--
    Learn ye with me of this thing new and strange.

CHORUS

    Speak thou; my breast doth palpitate with fear.

ELECTRA

    I see upon the tomb a curl new shorn.

CHORUS

    Shorn from what man or what deep-girded maid?

ELECTRA

    That may he guess who will; the sign is plain.

CHORUS

    Let me learn this of thee; let youth prompt age.

ELECTRA

    None is there here but I, to clip such gift.

CHORUS

    For they who thus should mourn him hate him sore.

ELECTRA

    And lo! in truth the hair exceeding like--

CHORUS

    Like to what locks and whose? instruct me that.

ELECTRA

Like unto those my father's children wear.

CHORUS

Then is this lock Orestes' secret gift?

ELECTRA

Most like it is unto the curls he wore,

CHORUS

Yet how dared he to come unto his home?

ELECTRA

He hath but sent it, clipt to mourn his sire.

CHORUS

It is a sorrow grievous as his death,
That he should live yet never dare return.

ELECTRA

Yea, and my heart o'erflows with gall of grief,
And I am pierced as with a cleaving dart;
Like to the first drops after drought, my tears
Fall down at will, a bitter bursting tide,
As on this lock I gaze; I cannot deem
That any Argive save Orestes' self
Was ever lord thereof; nor, well I wot,
Hath she, the murd'ress, shorn and laid this lock
To mourn him whom she slew--my mother she,
Bearing no mother's heart, but to her race
A loathing spirit, loathed itself of heaven!
Yet to affirm, as utterly made sure,
That this adornment cometh of the hand
Of mine Orestes, brother of my soul,
I may not venture, yet hope flatters fair!
Ah well-a-day, that this dumb hair had voice
To glad mine ears, as might a messenger,
Bidding me sway no more 'twixt fear and hope,
Clearly commanding, _Cast me hence away,
Clipped was I from some head thou lovest not;
Or, I am kin to thee, and here, as thou,
I come to weep and deck our father's grave._
Aid me, ye gods! for well indeed ye know
How in the gale and counter-gale of doubt,
Like to the seaman's bark, we whirl and stray.
But, if God will our life, how strong shall spring,
From seed how small, the new tree of our home!--
Lo ye, a second sign--these footsteps, look,--
Like to my own, a corresponsive print;
And look, another footmark,--this his own,
And that the foot of one who walked with him.
Mark, how the heel and tendons' print combine,
Measured exact, with mine coincident!
Alas! for doubt and anguish rack my mind.

ORESTES (_approaching suddenly_)

Pray thou, in gratitude for prayers fulfilled,
_Fair fall the rest of what I ask of heaven_.

ELECTRA

Wherefore? what win I from the gods by prayer?

ORESTES

This, that thine eyes behold thy heart's desire.

ELECTRA

On whom of mortals know'st thou that I call?

ORESTES

I know thy yearning for Orestes deep.

ELECTRA

Say then, wherein event hath crowned my prayer?

ORESTES

I, I am he; seek not one more akin.

ELECTRA

Some fraud, O stranger, weavest thou for me?

ORESTES

Against myself I weave it, if I weave.

ELECTRA

Ah thou hast mind to mock me in my woe!

ORESTES

'Tis at mine own I mock then, mocking thine.

ELECTRA

Speak I with thee then as Orestes' self?

ORESTES

My very face thou see'st and know'st me not,
And yet but now, when thou didst see the lock
Shorn for my father's grave, and when thy quest
Was eager on the footprints I had made,
Even I, thy brother, shaped and sized as thou,
Fluttered thy spirit, as at sight of me!
Lay now this ringlet whence 'twas shorn, and judge,
And look upon this robe, thine own hands' work,
The shuttle-prints, the creature wrought thereon--
Refrain thyself, nor prudence lose in joy,
For well I wot, our kin are less than kind.

ELECTRA

O thou that art unto our father's home
Love, grief and hope, for thee the tears ran down,
For thee, the son, the saviour that should be;
Trust thou thine arm and win thy father's halls!
O aspect sweet of fourfold love to me,
Whom upon thee the heart's constraint bids call
As on my father, and the claim of love
From me unto my mother turns to thee,
For she is very hate; to thee too turns
What of my heart went out to her who died
A ruthless death upon the altar-stone;
And for myself I love thee--thee that wast
A brother leal, sole stay of love to me.
Now by thy side be strength and right, and Zeus
Saviour almighty, stand to aid the twain!

ORESTES

Zeus, Zeus! look down on our estate and us,
The orphaned brood of him, our eagle-sire,
Whom to his death a fearful serpent brought
Enwinding him in coils; and we, bereft
And foodless, sink with famine, all too weak
To bear unto the eyrie, as he bore,
Such quarry as he slew. Lo! I and she,
Electra, stand before thee, fatherless,
And each alike cast out and homeless made.

ELECTRA

And if thou leave to death the brood of him
Whose altar blazed for thee, whose reverence
Was thine, all thine,--whence, in the after years,
Shall any hand like his adorn thy shrine
With sacrifice of flesh? the eaglets slain,
Thou wouldst not have a messenger to bear
Thine omens, once so clear, to mortal men;
So, if this kingly stock be withered all,
None on high festivals will fend thy shrine
Stoop thou to raise us! strong the race shall show,
Though puny now it seem, and fallen low.

CHORUS

O children, saviours of your father's home,
Beware ye of your words, lest one should hear
And bear them, for the tongue hath lust to tell,
Unto our masters--whom God grant to me
In pitchy reek of fun'ral flame to see!

ORESTES

Nay, mighty is Apollo's oracle
And shall not fail me, whom it bade to pass
Thro' all this peril; clear the voice rang out
With many warnings, sternly threatening
To my hot heart the wintry chill of pain,
Unless upon the slayers of my sire
I pressed for vengeance: this the god's command--
That I, in ire for home and wealth despoiled,
Should with a craft like theirs the slayers slay:
Else with my very life I should atone
This deed undone, in many a ghastly wise
For he proclaimed unto the ears of men
That offerings, poured to angry power of death,
Exude again, unless their will be done,
As grim disease on those that poured them forth--
As leprous ulcers mounting on the flesh
And with fell fangs corroding what of old
Wore natural form; and on the brow arise
White poisoned hairs, the crown of this disease.
He spake moreover of assailing fiends
Empowered to quit on me my father's blood,
Wreaking their wrath on me, what time in night
Beneath shut lids the spirit's eye sees clear.
The dart that flies in darkness, sped from hell
By spirits of the murdered dead who call
Unto their kin for vengeance, formless fear,
The night-tide's visitant, and madness' curse
Should drive and rack me; and my tortured frame
Should be chased forth from man's community
As with the brazen scorpions of the scourge.
For me and such as me no lustral bowl
Should stand, no spilth of wine be poured to God
For me, and wrath unseen of my dead sire
Should drive me from the shrine; no man should dare
To take me to his hearth, nor dwell with me:
Slow, friendless, cursed of all should be mine end,
And pitiless horror wind me for the grave,
This spake the god--this dare I disobey?
Yea, though I dared, the deed must yet be done;
For to that end diverse desires combine,--
The god's behest, deep grief for him who died,
And last, the grievous blank of wealth despoiled--
All these weigh on me, urge that Argive men,
Minions of valour, who with soul of fire
Did make of fenced Troy a ruinous heap,
Be not left slaves to two and each a woman!
For he, the man, wears woman's heart; if not
Soon shall he know, confronted by a man.

[_Orestes, Electra, and the Chorus gather round the tomb of
Agamemnon for the invocation which follows_.

CHORUS

    Mighty Fates, on you we call!
    Bid the will of Zeus ordain
    Power to those, to whom again
    Justice turns with hand and aid!
    Grievous was the prayer one made--
    Grievous let the answer fall!
    Where the mighty doom is set,
    Justice claims aloud her debt
    Who in blood hath dipped the steel,
    Deep in blood her meed shall feel!
    List an immemorial word--
      _Whosoe'er shall take the sword
      Shall perish by the sword._

ORESTES

Father, unblest in death, O father mine!
    What breath of word or deed
Can I waft on thee from this far confine
    Unto thy lowly bed,--
Waft upon thee, in midst of darkness lying,
    Hope's counter-gleam of fire?
Yet the loud dirge of praise brings grace undying
    Unto each parted sire.

CHORUS

O child, the spirit of the dead,
Altho' upon his flesh have fed
  The grim teeth of the flame,
Is quelled not; after many days
The sting of wrath his soul shall raise,
  A vengeance to reclaim!
To the dead rings loud our cry--
Plain the living's treachery--
Swelling, shrilling, urged on high,
  The vengeful dirge, for parents
  Shall strive and shall attain.

ELECTRA

  Hear me too, even me, O father, hear!
Not by one child alone these groans, these tears are shed
    Upon thy sepulchre.
  Each, each, where thou art lowly laid,
  Stands, a suppliant, homeless made:
    Ah, and all is full of ill,
  Comfort is there none to say!
  Strive and wrestle as we may,
    Still stands doom invincible.

CHORUS

  Nay, if so he will, the god
    Still our tears to joy can turn
  He can bid a triumph-ode
    Drown the dirge beside this urn;
  He to kingly halls can greet
The child restored, the homeward-guided feet.

ORESTES

Ah my father! hadst thou lain
  Under Ilion's wall,
By some Lycian spearman slain,
  Thou hadst left in this thine hall
Honour; thou hadst wrought for us
Fame and life most glorious.
  Over-seas if thou had'st died,
Heavily had stood thy tomb,
  Heaped on high; but, quenched in pride,
Grief were light unto thy home.

CHORUS

Loved and honoured hadst thou lain
  By the dead that nobly fell,
In the under-world again,
  Where are throned the kings of hell,
  Full of sway adorable
Thou hadst stood at their right hand--
Thou that wert, in mortal land,
  By Fate's ordinance and law,
King of kings who bear the crown
  And the staff, to which in awe
Mortal men bow down.

ELECTRA

  Nay O father, I were fain
Other fate had fallen on thee.
  Ill it were if thou hadst lain
  One among the common slain,
  Fallen by Scamander's side--
Those who slew thee there should be!
Then, untouched by slavery,
  We had heard as from afar
Deaths of those who should have died
  'Mid the chance of war.

CHORUS

O child, forbear! things all too high thou sayest.
    Easy, but vain, thy cry!
A boon above all gold is that thou prayest,
    An unreached destiny,
As of the blessèd land that far aloof
    Beyond the north wind lies;
Yet doth your double prayer ring loud reproof;
    A double scourge of sighs
Awakes the dead; th' avengers rise, though late;
    Blood stains the guilty pride
Of the accursed who rule on earth, and Fate
    Stands on the children's side.

ELECTRA

That hath sped thro' mine ear, like a shaft from a bow!
Zeus, Zeus! it is thou who dost send from below
A doom on the desperate doer--ere long
On a mother a father shall visit his wrong.

CHORUS

Be it mine to upraise thro' the reek of the pyre
The chant of delight, while the funeral fire
  Devoureth the corpse of a man that is slain
    And a woman laid low!
For who bids me conceal it! out-rending control,
Blows ever stern blast of hate thro' my soul,
  And before me a vision of wrath and of bane
    Flits and waves to and fro.

ORESTES

Zeus, thou alone to us art parent now.
    Smite with a rending blow
  Upon their heads, and bid the land be well:
Set right where wrong hath stood; and thou give ear,
    O Earth, unto my prayer--
Yea, hear O mother Earth, and monarchy of hell!

CHORUS

Nay, the law is sternly set--
  Blood-drops shed upon the ground
Plead for other bloodshed yet;
  Loud the call of death doth sound,
Calling guilt of olden time,
A Fury, crowning crime with crime.

ELECTRA

  Where, where are ye, avenging powers,
      Puissant Furies of the slain?
    Behold the relics of the race
    Of Atreus, thrust from pride of place!
  O Zeus, what home henceforth is ours,
      What refuge to attain?

CHORUS

Lo, at your wail my heart throbs, wildly stirred;
      Now am I lorn with sadness,
Darkened in all my soul, to hear your sorrow's word
  Anon to hope, the seat of strength, I rise,--
  She, thrusting grief away, lifts up mine eyes
      To the new dawn of gladness.

ORESTES

  Skills it to tell of aught save wrong on wrong,
    Wrought by our mother's deed?
  Though now she fawn for pardon, sternly strong
    Standeth our wrath, and will nor hear nor heed;
  Her children's soul is wolfish, born from hers,
    And softens not by prayers.

CHORUS

        I dealt upon my breast the blow
        That Asian mourning women know;
        Wails from my breast the fun'ral cry,
        The Cissian weeping melody;
    Stretched rendingly forth, to tatter and tear,
    My clenched hands wander, here and there,
      From head to breast; distraught with blows
            Throb dizzily my brows.

ELECTRA

    Aweless in hate, O mother, sternly brave!
        As in a foeman's grave
    Thou laid'st in earth a king, but to the bier
        No citizen drew near,--
Thy husband, thine, yet for his obsequies,
    Thou bad'st no wail arise!

ORESTES

Alas the shameful burial thou dost speak!
Yet I the vengeance of his shame will wreak--
    That do the gods command!
    That shall achieve mine hand!
Grant me to thrust her life away, and I
        Will dare to die!

CHORUS

List thou the deed! Hewn down and foully torn,
      He to the tomb was borne;
Yea, by her hand, the deed who wrought,
With like dishonour to the grave was brought,
And by her hand she strove, with strong desire,
Thy life to crush, O child, by murder of thy sire:
  Bethink thee, hearing, of the shame, the pain
      Wherewith that sire was slain!

ELECTRA

Yea, such was the doom of my sire; well-a-day,
    I was thrust from his side,--
As a dog from the chamber they thrust me away,
And in place of my laughter rose sobbing and tears
      As in darkness I lay.
O father, if this word can pass to thine ears,
    To thy soul let it reach and abide!

CHORUS

Let it pass, let it pierce, through the sense of thine ear,
  To thy soul, where in silence it waiteth the hour!
The past is accomplished; but rouse thee to hear
What the future prepareth; awake and appear,
    Our champion, in wrath and in power!

ORESTES

    O father, to thy loved ones come in aid.

ELECTRA

      With tears I call on thee.

CHORUS

      Listen and rise to light!
Be thou with us, be thou against the foe!
Swiftly this cry arises--even so
  Pray we, the loyal band, as we have prayed!

ORESTES

Let their might meet with mine, and their right with my right.

ELECTRA

      O ye Gods, it is yours to decree.

CHORUS

Ye call unto the dead; I quake to hear.
Fate is ordained of old, and shall fulfil your prayer.

ELECTRA

Alas, the inborn curse that haunts our home,
  Of Atè's bloodstained scourge the tuneless sound!
Alas, the deep insufferable doom,
  The stanchless wound!

ORESTES

It shall be stanched, the task is ours,--
  Not by a stranger's, but by kindred hand,
Shall be chased forth the blood-fiend of our land.
  Be this our spoken spell, to call Earth's nether powers!

CHORUS

    Lords of a dark eternity,
    To you has come the children's cry,
    Send up from hell, fulfil your aid
      To them who prayed.

ORESTES

O father, murdered in unkingly wise,
Fulfil my prayer, grant me thine halls to sway.

ELECTRA

To me too, grant this boon--dark death to deal
Unto Aegisthus, and to 'scape my doom.

ORESTES

So shall the rightful feasts that mortals pay
Be set for thee; else, not for thee shall rise
The scented reek of altars fed with flesh,
But thou shall lie dishonoured: hear thou me!


ELECTRA

I too, from my full heritage restored,
Will pour the lustral streams, what time I pass
Forth as a bride from these paternal halls,
And honour first, beyond all graves, thy tomb.

ORESTES

Earth, send my sire to fend me in the fight!

ELECTRA

Give fair-faced fortune, O Persephone!

ORESTES

Bethink thee, father, in the laver slain--

ELECTRA

Bethink thee of the net they handselled for thee!

ORESTES

Bonds not of brass ensnared thee, father mine.

ELECTRA

Yea, the ill craft of an enfolding robe.

ORESTES

By this our bitter speech arise, O sire!

ELECTRA

Raise thou thine head at love's last, dearest call!

ORESTES

Yea, speed forth Right to aid thy kinsmen's cause;
Grip for grip, let them grasp the foe, if thou
Willest in triumph to forget thy fall.

ELECTRA

Hear me, O father, once again hear me.
Lo! at thy tomb, two fledglings of thy brood--
A man-child and a maid; hold them in ruth,
Nor wipe them out, the last of Pelops' line.
For while they live, thou livest from the dead;
Children are memory's voices, and preserve
The dead from wholly dying: as a net
Is ever by the buoyant corks upheld,
Which save the flex-mesh, in the depth submerged.
Listen, this wail of ours doth rise for thee,
And as thou heedest it thyself art saved.

CHORUS

In sooth, a blameless prayer ye spake at length--
The tomb's requital for its dirge denied:
Now, for the rest, as thou art fixed to do,
Take fortune by the hand and work thy will.

ORESTES

The doom is set; and yet I fain would ask--
Not swerving from the course of my resolve,--
Wherefore she sent these offerings, and why
She softens all too late her cureless deed?
An idle boon it was, to send them here
Unto the dead who recks not of such gifts.
I cannot guess her thought, but well I ween
Such gifts are skilless to atone such crime.
Be blood once spilled, an idle strife he strives
Who seeks with other wealth or wine outpoured
To atone the deed. So stands the word, nor fails.
Yet would I know her thought; speak, if thou knowest.

CHORUS

I know it, son; for at her side I stood.
'Twas the night-wandering terror of a dream
That flung her shivering from her couch, and bade her--
Her, the accursed of God--these offerings send.

ORESTES

Heard ye the dream, to tell it forth aright?

CHORUS
Yea, from herself; her womb a serpent bare.

ORESTES

What then the sum and issue of the tale?

CHORUS

Even as a swaddled child, she lull'd the thing.

ORESTES

What suckling craved the creature, born full-fanged?

CHORUS

Yet in her dreams she proffered it the breast.

ORESTES

How? did the hateful thing not bite her teat?

CHORUS

Yea, and sucked forth a blood-gout in the milk.

ORESTES

Not vain this dream--it bodes a man's revenge.

CHORUS

Then out of sleep she started with a cry,
And thro' the palace for their mistress' aid
Full many lamps, that erst lay blind with night
Flared into light; then, even as mourners use,
She sends these offerings, in hope to win
A cure to cleave and sunder sin from doom.

ORESTES

Earth and my father's grave, to you I call--
Give this her dream fulfilment, and thro' me.
I read it in each part coincident,
With what shall be; for mark, that serpent sprang
From the same womb as I, in swaddling bands
By the same hands was swathed, lipped the same breast.
And sucking forth the same sweet mother's-milk
Infused a clot of blood; and in alarm
She cried upon her wound the cry of pain.
The rede is clear: the thing of dread she nursed,
The death of blood she dies; and I, 'tis I,
In semblance of a serpent, that must slay her.
Thou art my seer, and thus I read the dream.

CHORUS

So do; yet ere thou doest, speak to us,
Siding some act, some, by not acting, aid.

ORESTES

Brief my command: I bid my sister pass
In silence to the house, and all I bid
This my design with wariness conceal,
That they who did by craft a chieftain slay
May by like craft and in like noose be ta'en
Dying the death which Loxias foretold--
Apollo, king and prophet undisproved.
I with this warrior Pylades will come
In likeness of a stranger, full equipt
As travellers come, and at the palace gates
Will stand, as stranger yet in friendship's bond
Unto this house allied; and each of us
Will speak the tongue that round Parnassus sounds,
Feigning such speech as Phocian voices use.
And what if none of those that tend the gates
Shall welcome us with gladness, since the house
With ills divine is haunted? if this hap,
We at the gate will bide, till, passing by,
Some townsman make conjecture and proclaim,
_How? is Aegisthus here, and knowingly
Keeps suppliants aloof, by bolt and bar?_
Then shall I win my way; and if I cross
The threshold of the gate, the palace' guard,
And find him throned where once my father sat--
Or if he come anon, and face to face
Confronting, drop his eyes from mine--I swear
He shall not utter, _Who art thou and whence?_
Ere my steel leap, and compassed round with death
Low he shall lie: and thus, full-fed with doom,
The Fury of the house shall drain once more
A deep third draught of rich unmingled blood.
But thou, O sister, look that all within
Be well prepared to give these things event.
And ye--I say 'twere well to bear a tongue
Full of fair silence and of fitting speech
As each beseems the time; and last, do thou,
Hermes the warder-god, keep watch and ward,
And guide to victory my striving sword.

[_Exit with Pylades._

CHORUS

  Many and marvellous the things of fear
    Earth's breast doth bear;
  And the sea's lap with many monsters teems,
  And windy levin-bolts and meteor gleams
    Breed many deadly things--
Unknown and flying forms, with fear upon their wings,
    And in their tread is death;
  And rushing whirlwinds, of whose blasting breath
    Man's tongue can tell.
    But who can tell aright the fiercer thing,
    The aweless soul, within man's breast inhabiting?
    Who tell, how, passion-fraught and love-distraught
    The woman's eager, craving thought
    Doth wed mankind to woe and ruin fell?
    Yea, how the loveless love that doth possess
    The woman, even as the lioness,
    Doth rend and wrest apart, with eager strife,
        The link of wedded life?

Let him be the witness, whose thought is not borne on light wings
     thro' the air,
But abideth with knowledge, what thing was wrought by Althea's
     despair;
For she marr'd the life-grace of her son, with ill counsel rekindled
     the flame
That was quenched as it glowed on the brand, what time from his mother
     he came,
With the cry of a new-born child; and the brand from the burning she
     won,
For the Fates had foretold it coeval, in life and in death, with her
     son.

Yea, and man's hate tells of another, even Scylla of murderous guile,
Who slew for an enemy's sake her father, won o'er by the wile
And the gifts of Cretan Minos, the gauds of the high-wrought gold;
For she clipped from her father's head the lock that should never
     wax old,
As he breathed in the silence of sleep, and knew not her craft and
     her crime--
But Hermes, the guard of the dead, doth grasp her, in fulness  of
     time.

And since of the crimes of the cruel I tell, let my singing record
The bitter wedlock and loveless, the curse on these halls outpoured,
The crafty device of a woman, whereby did a chieftain fall,
A warrior stern in his wrath; the fear of his enemies all,--
A song of dishonour, untimely! and cold is the hearth that was warm
And ruled by the cowardly spear, the woman's unwomanly arm.

But the summit and crown of all crimes is that which in Lemnos befell;
A woe and a mourning it is, a shame and a spitting to tell;
And he that in after time doth speak of his deadliest thought,
Doth say, _It is like to the deed that of old time in Lemnos was
     wrought_;
And loathed of men were the doers, and perished, they and their seed,
For the gods brought hate upon them; none loveth the impious deed.

It is well of these tales to tell; for the sword in the grasp of Right
With a cleaving, a piercing blow to the innermost heart doth smite,
And the deed unlawfully done is not trodden down nor forgot,
When the sinner out-steppeth the law and heedeth the high God not;
But Justice hath planted the anvil, and Destiny forgeth the sword
That shall smite in her chosen time; by her is the child restored;
And, darkly devising, the Fiend of the house, world-cursed, will repay
The price of the blood of the slain that was shed in the bygone day.


[_Enter Orestes and Pylades, in guise of travellers_.

ORESTES   (_knocking at the palace gate_)
What ho! slave, ho! I smite the palace gate
In vain, it seems; what ho, attend within,--
Once more, attend; come forth and ope the halls
If yet Aegisthus holds them hospitable.

SLAVE (_from within_)

Anon, anon!
[_Opens the door._
Speak, from what land art thou, and sent from whom?

ORESTES

Go, tell to them who rule the palace-halls,
Since 'tis to them I come with tidings new--
(Delay not--Night's dark car is speeding on,
And time is now for wayfarers to cast
Anchor in haven, wheresoe'er a house
Doth welcome strangers)--that there now come forth
Some one who holds authority within--
The queen, or, if some man, more seemly were it;
For when man standeth face to face with man,
No stammering modesty confounds their speech,
But each to each doth tell his meaning clear.

[_Enter Clytemnestra_,

CLYTEMNESTRA

Speak on, O strangers; have ye need of aught?
Here is whate'er beseems a house like this--
Warm bath and bed, tired Nature's soft restorer,
And courteous eyes to greet you; and if aught
Of graver import needeth act as well,
That, as man's charge, I to a man will tell.

ORESTES

A Daulian man am I, from Phocis bound,
And as with mine own travel-scrip self-laden
I went toward Argos, parting hitherward
With travelling foot, there did encounter me
One whom I knew not and who knew not me,
But asked my purposed way nor hid his own,
And, as we talked together, told his name--
Strophius of Phocis; then he said, "Good sir,
Since in all case thou art to Argos bound,
Forget not this my message, heed it well,
Tell to his own, _Orestes is no more_.
And--whatsoe'er his kinsfolk shall resolve,
Whether to bear his dust unto his home,
Or lay him here, in death as erst in life
Exiled for aye, a child of banishment--
Bring me their hest, upon thy backward road;
For now in brazen compass of an urn
His ashes lie, their dues of weeping paid."
So much I heard, and so much tell to thee,
Not knowing if I speak unto his kin
Who rule his home; but well, I deem, it were,
Such news should earliest reach a parent's ear.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Ah woe is me! thy word our ruin tells;
From roof-tree unto base are we despoiled.--
O thou whom nevermore we wrestle down,
Thou Fury of this home, how oft and oft
Thou dost descry what far aloof is laid,
Yea, from afar dost bend th' unerring bow
And rendest from my wretchedness its friends;
As now Orestes--who, a brief while since,
Safe from the mire of death stood warily,--
Was the home's hope to cure th' exulting wrong;
Now thou ordainest, _Let the ill abide_.

ORESTES

To host and hostess thus with fortune blest,
Lief had I come with better news to bear
Unto your greeting and acquaintanceship;
For what goodwill lies deeper than the bond
Of guest and host? and wrong abhorred it were,
As well I deem, if I, who pledged my faith
To one, and greetings from the other had,
Bore not aright the tidings 'twixt the twain.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Whate'er thy news, thou shalt not welcome lack,
Meet and deserved, nor scant our grace shall be.
Hadst them thyself not come, such tale to tell
Another, sure, had borne it to our ears.
But lo! the hour is here when travelling guests
Fresh from the daylong labour of the road,
Should win their rightful due. Take him within
[_To the slave._
To the man-chamber's hospitable rest--
Him and these fellow-farers at his side
Give them such guest-right as beseems our halls;
I bid thee do as thou shalt answer for it
And I unto the prince who rules our home
Will tell the tale, and, since we lack not friends,
With them will counsel how this hap to bear

[_Exit Clytemnestra._

CHORUS

  So be it done--
Sister-servants, when draws nigh
Time for us aloud to cry
_Orestes and his victory?_

  O holy earth and holy tomb
Over the grave-pit heaped on high,
Where low doth Agamemnon lie,
  The king of ships, the army's lord!
Now is the hour--give ear and come,
  For now doth Craft her aid afford,
And Hermes, guard of shades in hell,
Stands o'er their strife, to sentinel
  The dooming of the sword.
I wot the stranger worketh woe within--
For lo! I see come forth, suffused with tears,
Orestes' nurse. What ho, Kilissa--thou
Beyond the doors? Where goest thou? Methinks
Some grief unbidden walketh at thy side.

[_Enter Kilissa, a nurse._

KILISSA

My mistress bids me, with what speed I may,
Call in Aegisthus to the stranger guests,
  That he may come, and standing face to face,
  A man with men, may thus more clearly learn
  This rumour new.   Thus speaking, to her slaves
  She hid beneath the glance of fictive grief
  Laughter for what is wrought--to her desire
  Too well; but ill, ill, ill besets the house,
  Brought by the tale these guests have told so clear.
  And he, God wot, will gladden all his heart
  Hearing this rumour. Woe and well-a-day!
  The bitter mingled cup of ancient woes,
  Hard to be borne, that here in Atreus' house
  Befel, was grievous to mine inmost heart,
  But never yet did I endure such pain.
  All else I bore with set soul patiently;
  But now--alack, alack!--Orestes dear,
  The day and night-long travail of my soul!
  Whom from his mother's womb, a new-born child,
  I clasped and cherished! Many a time and oft
  Toilsome and profitless my service was,
  When his shrill outcry called me from my couch!
  For the young child, before the sense is born,
  Hath but a dumb thing's life, must needs be nursed
  As its own nature bids. The swaddled thing
  Hath nought of speech, whate'er discomfort come--
  Hunger or thirst or lower weakling need,--
  For the babe's stomach works its own relief.
  Which knowing well before, yet oft surprised,
  'Twas mine to cleanse the swaddling clothes--poor I
  Was nurse to tend and fuller to make white;
  Two works in one, two handicrafts I took,
  When in mine arms the father laid the boy.
  And now he's dead--alack and well-a-day!
  Yet must I go to him whose wrongful power
  Pollutes this house--fair tidings these to him!

CHORUS

  Say then, with what array she bids him come?

KILISSA

  What say'st thou! Speak more clearly for mine ear.

CHORUS

  Bids she bring henchmen, or to come alone?

KlLISSA

  She bids him bring a spear-armed body-guard.

CHORUS

  Nay, tell not that unto our loathèd lord,
  But speed to him, put on the mien of joy,
  Say, _Come along, fear nought, the news is good:_
  A bearer can tell straight a twisted tale.

KILISSA

  Does then thy mind in this new tale find joy?

CHORUS

  What if Zeus bid our ill wind veer to fair?

KILISSA

  And how? the home's hope with Orestes dies.

CHORUS

  Not yet-a seer, though feeble, this might see.

KILISSA

  What say'st thou? Know'st thou aught, this tale belying?

CHORUS

  Go, tell the news to him, perform thine hest,--
  What the gods will, themselves can well provide.

KILISSA

  Well, I will go, herein obeying thee;
  And luck fall fair, with favour sent from heaven.

[_Exit._

CHORUS

Zeus, sire of them who on Olympus dwell,
  Hear thou, O hear my prayer!
Grant to my rightful lords to prosper well
  Even as their zeal is fair!
For right, for right goes up aloud my cry--
  Zeus, aid him, stand anigh!

  Into his father's hall he goes
  To smite his father's foes.
Bid him prevail! by thee on throne of triumph set,
Twice, yea and thrice with joy shall he acquit the debt.

Bethink thee, the young steed, the orphan foal
  Of sire beloved by thee, unto the car
  Of doom is harnessed fast.
Guide him aright, plant firm a lasting goal,
Speed thou his pace,--O that no chance may mar
  The homeward course, the last!

And ye who dwell within the inner chamber
  Where shines the storèd joy of gold--
Gods of one heart, O hear ye, and remember;
Up and avenge the blood shed forth of old,
      With sudden rightful blow;
  Then let the old curse die, nor be renewed
      With progeny of blood,--
  Once more, and not again, be latter guilt laid low!

  O thou who dwell'st in Delphi's mighty cave,
  Grant us to see this home once more restored
     Unto its rightful lord!
  Let it look forth, from veils of death, with joyous eye
    Unto the dawning light of liberty;
  And Hermes, Maia's child, lend hand to save,
     Willing the right, and guide
  Our state with Fortune's breeze adown the favouring
         tide.
    Whate'er in darkness hidden lies,


   He utters at his will;
He at his will throws darkness on our eye
  By night and eke by day inscrutable.

  Then, then shall wealth atone
  The ills that here were done.
    Then, then will we unbind,
    Fling free on wafting wind
Of joy, the woman's voice that waileth now
In piercing accents for a chief laid low;
    And this our song shall be--
  _Hail to the commonwealth restored!
    Hail to the freedom won to me!
All hail! for doom hath passed from him, my well--
   loved lord!_

And thou, O child, when Time and Chance agree,
Up to the deed that for thy sire is done!
And if she wail unto thee, _Spare, O son_--
Cry, _Aid, O father_--and achieve the deed,
The horror of man's tongue, the gods' great need!
Hold in thy breast such heart as Perseus had,
The bitter woe work forth,
Appease the summons of the dead,
The wrath of friends on earth;
Yea, set within a sign of blood and doom,
And do to utter death him that pollutes thy home.

[_Enter Aegisthus_.

AEGISTHUS

Hither and not unsummoned have I come;
For a new rumour, borne by stranger men
Arriving hither, hath attained mine ears,
Of hap unwished-for, even Orestes' death.
This were new sorrow, a blood-bolter'd load
Laid on the house that doth already bow
Beneath a former wound that festers deep.
Dare I opine these words have truth and life?
Or are they tales, of woman's terror born,
That fly in the void air, and die disproved?
Canst thou tell aught, and prove it to my soul?

CHORUS

  What we have heard, we heard; go thou within
  Thvself to ask the strangers of their tale.
  Strengthless are tidings, thro' another heard;
  Question is his, to whom the tale is brought.

AEGISTHUS

  I too will meet and test the messenger,
  Whether himself stood witness of the death,
  Or tells it merely from dim rumour learnt:
  None shall cheat me, whose soul hath watchful eyes.

[_Exit._

CHORUS

  Zeus, Zeus! what word to me is given?
  What cry or prayer, invoking heaven,
  Shall first by me be uttered?
  What speech of craft? nor all revealing,
  Nor all too warily concealing?
  Ending my speech, shall aid the deed?
  For lo! in readiness is laid
  The dark emprise, the rending blade;
  Blood-dropping daggers shall achieve
  The dateless doom of Atreus' name,
  Or? kindling torch and joyful flame
  In sign of new-won liberty?
  Once more Orestes shall retrieve
  His father's wealth, and, throned on high,
  Shall hold the city's fealty.
  So mighty is the grasp whereby,
  Heaven-holpen, he shall trip and throw,
  Unseconded, a double foe
  Ho for the victory!

[_A loud cry within._

VOICE OF AEGISTHUS

  Help, help, alas!

CHORUS

Ho there, ho! how is't within?
Is't done? is't over? Stand we here aloof
While it is wrought, that guiltless we may seem
Of this dark deed; with death is strife fulfilled.

[_Enter a slave_

SLAVE

O woe, O woe, my lord is done to death!
Woe, woe, and woe again, AEgisthus gone!
Hasten, fling wide the doors, unloose the bolts
Of the queen's chamber.   O for some young strength
To match the need! but aid availeth nought
To him laid low for ever.   Help, help, help!
Sure to deaf ears I shout, and call in vain
To slumber ineffectual.   What ho!
The queen! how fareth Clytemnestra's self?
Her neck too, hers, is close upon the steel,
And soon shall sink, hewn thro' as justice wills.

[_Enter Clytemnestra._

CLYTEMNESTRA

What ails thee, raising this ado for us?

SLAVE

I say the dead are come to slay the living.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Alack, I read thy riddles all too clear?
We slew by craft and by like craft shall die.
Swift, bring the axe that slew my lord of old;
I'll know anon or death or victory?
So stands the curse, so I confront it here.

  [_Enter Orestes, his sword dropping with blood,_

ORESTES

Thee too I seek: for him what's done will serve.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Woe, woe! Aegisthus, spouse and champion, slain!

ORESTES

What lov'st the man? then in his grave lie down,
Be his in death, desert him nevermore!

CLYTEMNESTSA

Stay, child, and fear to strike. O son, this breast
Pillowed thine head full oft, while, drowsed with sleep,
Thy toothless mouth drew mother's milk from me.

ORESTES

Can I my mother spare? speak, Pylades,

PYLADES

Where then would fall the hest Apollo gave
At Delphi, where the solemn compact sworn?
Choose thou the hate of all men, not of gods.

ORESTES

Thou dost prevail; I hold thy counsel good.

[_To Clytemnestra_.

Follow; I will slay thee at his side.
With him whom in his life thou lovedst more
Than Agamemnon, sleep in death, the meed
For hate where love, and love where hate was due!

CLYTEMNESTRA

I nursed thee young; must I forego mine eld?

ORESTES

Thou slew'st my father; shalt thou dwell with me?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Fate bore a share in these things, O my child!

ORESTES

Fate also doth provide this doom for thee.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Beware, O my child, a parent's dying curse.

ORESTES

A parent who did cast me out to ill!

CLYTEMNESTRA

Not cast thee out, but to a friendly home.

ORESTES

Born free, I was by twofold bargain sold.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Where then the price that I received for thee?

ORESTES

The price of shame; I taunt thee not more plainly.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Nay, but recount thy father's lewdness too.

ORESTES

Home-keeping, chide not him who toils without.

CLYTEMNESTRA

'Tis hard for wives to live as widows, child.

ORESTES

The absent husband toils for them at home.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Thou growest fain to slay thy mother, child

ORESTES

Nay, 'tis thyself wilt slay thyself, not I.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Beware thy mother's vengeful hounds from hell.

ORESTES

How shall I 'scape my father's, sparing thee?

CLYTEMNESTRA

Living, I cry as to a tomb, unheard.

ORESTES

My father's fate ordains this doom for thee.

CLYTEMNESTRA

Ah, me! this snake it was I bore and nursed.

ORESTES

Ay, right prophetic was thy visioned fear.
Shameful thy deed was--die the death of shame!

[_Exit, driving Clytemnestra before him._

CHORUS

Lo, even for these I mourn, a double death:
Yet since Orestes, driven on by doom,
Thus crowns the height of murders manifold,
I say, 'tis well--that not in night and death
Should sink the eye and light of this our home.

There came on Priam's race and name
  A vengeance; though it tarried long,
    With heavy doom it came.
Came, too, on Agamemnon's hall
    A lion-pair, twin swordsmen strong.
And last, the heritage doth fall
  To him, to whom from Pythian cave
  The god his deepest counsel gave.
Cry out, rejoice! our kingly hall
  Hath 'scaped from ruin--ne'er again
Its ancient wealth be wasted all
      By two usurpers, sin-defiled--
    An evil path of woe and bane!
On him who dealt the dastard blow
    Comes Craft, Revenge's scheming child.
And hand in hand with him doth go,
        Eager for fight,
The child of Zeus, whom men below
  Call Justice, naming her aright.
      And on her foes her breath
      Is as the blast of death;
For her the god who dwells in deep recess
      Beneath Parnassus' brow,
    Summons with loud acclaim
    To rise, though late and lame,
And come with craft that worketh righteousness.

For even o'er Powers divine this law is strong--
    _Thou shalt not serve the wrong_.
To that which ruleth heaven beseems it that we bow.
    Lo, freedom's light hath come!
      Lo, now is rent away
The grim and curbing bit that held us dumb.
  Up to the light, ye halls! this many a day
      Too low on earth ye lay.
  And Time, the great Accomplisher,
  Shall cross the threshold, whensoe'er
  He choose with purging hand to cleanse
  The palace, driving all pollution thence.
  And fair the cast of Fortune's die
  Before our state's new lords shall lie,
  Not as of old, but bringing fairer doom
      Lo, freedom's light hath come!

[_The  scene  opens, disclosing Orestes standing over the corpses of
Aegisthus and Clytemnestra; in one hand he holds his sword, in the
other the robe in which Agamemnon was entangled and slain_.

ORESTES

There lies our country's twofold tyranny,
My father's slayers, spoilers of my home.
Erst were they royal, sitting on the throne,
And loving are they yet,--their common fate
Tells the tale truly, shows their trothplight firm.
They swore to work mine ill-starred father's death,
They swore to die together; 'tis fulfilled.
O ye who stand, this great doom's witnesses,
Behold this too, the dark device which bound
My sire unhappy to his death,--behold
The mesh which trapped his hands, enwound his feet!
Stand round, unfold it--'tis the trammel-net
That wrapped a chieftain; holds it that he see,
The father--not my sire, but he whose eye
Is judge of all things, the all-seeing Sun!
Let him behold my mother's damnèd deed,
Then let him stand, when need shall be to me,
Witness that justly I have sought and slain
My mother; blameless was Aegisthus' doom--
He died the death law bids adulterers die.
But she who plotted this accursèd thing
To slay her lord, by whom she bare beneath
Her girdle once the burden of her babes,
Beloved erewhile, now turned to hateful foes--
What deem ye of her? or what venomed thing,
Sea-snake or adder, had more power than she
To poison with a touch the flesh unscarred?
So great her daring, such her impious will.
How name her, if I may not speak a curse?
A lion-springe! a laver's swathing cloth,
Wrapping a dead man, twining round his feet--
A net, a trammel, an entangling robe?
Such were the weapon of some strangling thief,
The terror of the road, a cut-purse hound--
With such device full many might he kill,
Full oft exult in heat of villainy.
Ne'er have my house so cursed an indweller--
Heaven send me, rather, childless to be slain!

CHORUS

Woe for each desperate deed!
Woe for the queen, with shame of life bereft!
And ah, for him who still is left,
Madness, dark blossom of a bloody seed!

ORESTES

Did she the deed or not? this robe gives proof,
Imbrued with blood that bathed Aegisthus' sword;
Look, how the spurted stain combines with time
To blur the many dyes that once adorned
Its pattern manifold! I now stand here,
Made glad, made sad with blood, exulting, wailing--
Hear, O thou woven web that slew my sire!
I grieve for deed and death and all my home--
Victor, pollution's damnèd stain for prize.

CHORUS

Alas, that none of mortal men
Can pass his life untouched by pain!
Behold, one woe is here--
Another loometh near.

ORESTES

Hark ye and learn--for what the end shall be
For me I know not: breaking from the curb
My spirit whirls me off, a conquered prey,
Borne as a charioteer by steeds distraught
Far from the course, and madness in my breast
Burneth to chant its song, and leap, and rave--
Hark ye and learn, friends, ere my reason goes!
I say that rightfully I slew my mother,
A thing God-scorned, that foully slew my sire
And chiefest wizard of the spell that bound me
Unto this deed I name the Pythian seer
Apollo, who foretold that if I slew,
The guilt of murder done should pass from me;
But if I spared, the fate that should be mine
I dare not blazon forth--the bow of speech
Can reach not to the mark, that doom to tell.
And now behold me, how with branch and crown
I pass, a suppliant made meet to go
Unto Earth's midmost shrine, the holy ground
Of Loxias, and that renownèd light
Of ever-burning fire, to 'scape the doom
Of kindred murder: to no other shrine
(So Loxias bade) may I for refuge turn.
Bear witness, Argives, in the after time,
How came on me this dread fatality.
Living, I pass a banished wanderer hence,
To leave in death the memory of this cry.

CHORUS

Nay, but the deed is well; link not thy lips
To speech ill-starred, nor vent ill-boding words--
Who hast to Argos her full freedom given,
Lopping two serpents' heads with timely blow.

ORESTES

Look, look, alas!
Handmaidens, see--what Gorgon shapes throng up;
Dusky their robes and all their hair enwound--
Snakes coiled with snakes--off, off, I must away!

CHORUS

Most loyal of all sons unto thy sire,
What visions thus distract thee?   Hold, abide;
Great was thy victory, and shalt thou fear?

ORESTES

These are no dreams, void shapes of haunting ill,
But clear to sight my mother's hell-hounds come!

CHORUS

Nay, the fresh bloodshed still imbrues thine hands,
And thence distraction sinks into thy soul.

ORESTES

O king Apollo--see, they swarm and throng--
Black blood of hatred dripping from their eyes!

CHORUS

One remedy thou hast; go, touch the shrine
Of Loxias, and rid thee of these woes.

ORESTES

Ye can behold them not, but I behold them.
Up and away! I dare abide no more.

[_Exit_

CHORUS

Farewell then as thou mayst,--the god thy friend
Guard thee and aid with chances favouring.

Behold, the storm of woe divine
That the raves and beats on Atreus' line
  Its great third blast hath blown.
First was Thyestes' loathly woe--
The rueful feast of long ago,
  On children's flesh, unknown.
And next the kingly chief's despite,
When he who led the Greeks to fight
  Was in the bath hewn down.
And now the offspring of the race
Stands in the third, the saviour's place,
  To save--or to consume?
O whither, ere it be fulfilled,
Ere its fierce blast be hushed and stilled,
  Shall blow the wind of doom?

[_Exeunt_.



       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOUSE OF ATREUS

BEING

THE AGAMEMNON, THE LIBATION-BEARERS,
AND THE FURIES OF AESCHYLUS

THE FURIES

DRAMATIS PERSONAE

THE PYTHIAN PRIESTESS
APOLLO
ORESTES
THE GHOST OF CLYTEMNESTRA
CHORUS OF FURIES
ATHENA
ATTENDANTS OF ATHENA
TWELVE ATHENIAN CITIZENS

_The Scene of the Drama is the Temple of Apollo, at Delphi:
afterwards the Temple of Athena, on the Acropolis of Athens, and the
adjoining Areopagus._

_The Temple at Delphi_

_The Pythian Priestess_

First, in this prayer, of all the gods I name
The prophet mother Earth; and Themis next,
Second who sat--for so with truth is said--
On this her mother's shrine oracular.
Then by her grace, who unconstrained allowed,
There sat thereon another child of Earth--
Titanian Phoebe. She, in after time,
Gave o'er the throne, as birthgift to a god,
Phoebus, who in his own bears Phoebe's name.
He from the lake and ridge of Delos' isle
Steered to the port of Pallas' Attic shores,
The home of ships; and thence he passed and came
Unto this land and to Parnassus' shrine.
And at his side, with awe revering him,
There went the children of Hephaestus' seed,
The hewers of the sacred way, who tame
The stubborn tract that erst was wilderness.
And all this folk, and Delphos, chieftain-king
Of this their land, with honour gave him home;
And in his breast Zeus set a prophet's soul,
And gave to him this throne, whereon he sits,
Fourth prophet of the shrine, and, Loxias hight,
Gives voice to that which Zeus his sire decrees.

Such gods I name in my preluding prayer,
And after them, I call with honour due
On Pallas, wardress of the fane, and Nymphs
Who dwell around the rock Corycian,
Where in the hollow cave, the wild birds' haunt,
Wander the feet of lesser gods; and there,
Right well I know it, Bromian Bacchus dwells,
Since he in godship led his Maenad host,
Devising death for Pentheus, whom they rent
Piecemeal, as hare among the hounds.   And last,
I call on Pleistus' springs, Poseidon's might,
And Zeus most high, the great Accomplisher.
Then as a seeress to the sacred chair
I pass and sit; and may the powers divine
Make this mine entrance fruitful in response
Beyond each former advent, triply blest.
And if there stand without, from Hellas bound,
Men seeking oracles, let each pass in
In order of the lot, as use allows;
For the god guides whate'er my tongue proclaims.

[_She goes into the interior of the temple; after a short interval,
she returns in great fear_.

Things fell to speak of, fell for eyes to see,
Have sped me forth again from Loxias' shrine,
With strength unstrung, moving erect no more,
But aiding with my hands my failing feet,
Unnerved by fear.   A beldame's force is naught--
Is as a child's, when age and fear combine.
For as I pace towards the inmost fane
Bay-filleted by many a suppliant's hand,
Lo, at the central altar I descry
One crouching as for refuge--yea, a man
Abhorredd of heaven; and from his hands, wherein
A sword new-drawn he holds, blood reeked and fell:
A wand he bears, the olive's topmost bough,
Twined as of purpose with a deep close tuft
Of whitest wool.   This, that I plainly saw,
Plainly I tell.    But lo, in front of him,
Crouched on the altar-steps, a grisly band
Of women slumbers--not like women they,
But Gorgons rather; nay, that word is weak,
Nor may I match the Gorgons' shape with theirs!
Such have I seen in painted semblance erst--
Winged Harpies, snatching food from Phineus' board,--
But these are wingless, black, and all their shape
The eye's abomination to behold.
Fell is the breath--let none draw nigh to it--
Wherewith they snort in slumber; from their eyes
Exude the damned drops of poisonous ire:
And such their garb as none should dare to bring
To statues of the gods or homes of men.
I wot not of the tribe wherefrom can come
So fell a legion, nor in what land Earth
Could rear, unharmed, such creatures, nor avow
That she had travailed and brought forth death.
But, for the rest, be all these things a care
Unto the mighty Loxias, the lord
Of this our shrine: healer and prophet he,
Discerner he of portents, and the cleanser
Of other homes--behold, his own to cleanse!

[_Exit_.

[_The scene opens, disclosing the interior of the temple: Orestes
clings to the central altar; the  Furies lie slumbering at a little
distance; Apollo and Hermes appear from the innermost shrine_.

APOLLO

Lo, I desert thee never: to the end,
Hard at thy side as now, or sundered far,
I am thy guard, and to thine enemies
Implacably oppose me: look on them,
These greedy fiends, beneath my craft subdued!
See, they are fallen on sleep, these beldames oid,
Unto whose grim and wizened maidenhood
Nor god nor man nor beast can e'er draw near.
Yea, evil were they born, for evil's doom,
Evil the dark abyss of Tartarus
Wherein they dwell, and they themselves the hate
Of men on earth, and of Olympian gods.
But thou, flee far and with unfaltering speed;
For they shall hunt thee through the mainland wide
Where'er throughout the tract of travelled earth
Thy foot may roam, and o'er and o'er the seas
And island homes of men. Faint not nor fail,
Too soon and timidly within thy breast
Shepherding thoughts forlorn of this thy toil;
But unto Pallas' city go, and there
Crouch at her shrine, and in thine arms enfold
Her ancient image: there we well shall find
Meet judges for this cause and suasive pleas,
Skilled to contrive for thee deliverance
From all this woe.  Be such my pledge to thee,
For by my hest thou didst thy mother slay.

ORESTES

O king Apollo, since right well thou know'st
What justice bids, have heed, fulfil the same,--
Thy strength is all-sufficient to achieve.

APOLLO

Have thou too heed, nor let thy fear prevail
Above thy will.   And do thou guard him, Hermes,
Whose blood is brother unto mine, whose sire
The same high God.  Men call thee guide and guard,
Guide therefore thou and guard my suppliant;
For Zeus himself reveres the outlaw's right,
Boon of fair escort, upon man conferred.

[_Exeunt Apollo, Hermes, and Orestes The Ghost of Clytemnestra near_

GHOST OF CLYTEMNESTRA

Sleep on! awake! what skills your sleep to me--
Me, among all the dead by you dishonoured--
Me from whom never, in the world of death,
Dieth this curse, _'Tis she who smote and slew_,
And shamed and scorned I roam? Awake, and hear
My plaint of dead men's hate intolerable.
Me, sternly slain by them that should have loved,
Me doth no god arouse him to avenge,
Hewn down in blood by matricidal hands.
Mark ye these wounds from which the heart's blood ran,
And by whose hand, bethink ye! for the sense
When shut in sleep hath then the spirit-sight,
But in the day the inward eye is blind.
List, ye who drank so oft with lapping tongue
The wineless draught by me outpoured to soothe
Your vengeful ire! how oft on kindled shrine
I laid the feast of darkness, at the hour
Abhorred of every god but you alone!
Lo, all my service trampled down and scorned!
And he hath baulked your chase, as stag the hounds;
Yea, lightly bounding from the circling toils,
Hath wried his face in scorn, and flieth far.
Awake and hear--for mine own soul I cry--
Awake, ye powers of hell! the wandering ghost
That once was Clytemnestra calls--Arise!

 [_The Furies mutter grimly, as in a dream_.
Mutter and murmur! He hath flown  afar--
My kin have gods to guard them, I have none!

 [_The Furies mutter as before_.
O drowsed in sleep too deep to heed my pain!
Orestes flies, who me, his mother, slew.

[_The Furies give a confused cry_.
Yelping, and drowsed again?   Up and be doing
That which alone is yours, the deed of hell!

[_The Furies give another cry_.
Lo, sleep and toil, the sworn confederates,
Have quelled your dragon-anger, once so fell!

THE FURIES (_muttering more fiercely and loudly_)

Seize, seize, seize, seize--mark, yonder!

GHOST

In dreams ye chase a prey, and like some hound,
That even in sleep doth ply his woodland toil,
Ye bell and bay.  What do ye, sleeping here?
Be not o'ercome with toil, nor sleep-subdued,
Be heedless of my wrong. Up! thrill your heart
With the just chidings of my tongue,--such words
Are as a spur to purpose firmly held.
Blow forth on him the breath of wrath and blood,
Scorch him with reek of fire that burns in you,
Waste him with new pursuit--swift, hound him down!

[_Ghost sinks._

FIRST FURY (_awaking_)

Up! rouse another as I rouse thee; up!
Sleep'st thou? Rise up, and spurning sleep away,
See we if false to us this prelude rang.

CHORUS OF FURIES

Alack, alack, O sisters, we have toiled,
  O much and vainly have we toiled and borne!
Vainly! and all we wrought the gods have foiled,
                     And turnèd us to scorn!
He hath slipped from the net, whom we chased: he
     hath 'scaped us who should be our prey--
O'ermastered by slumber we sank, and our quarry hath stolen away!
Thou, child of the high God Zeus, Apollo, hast robbed us and wronged;
Thou, a youth, hast down-trodden the right that is godship more
     ancient belonged;
Thou hast cherished thy suppliant man; the slayer the God-forsaken,
The bane of a parent, by craft from out of our grasp thou hast taken:
A god, thou hast stolen from us the avengers a matricide son--
And who shall consider thy deed and say, _It is rightfully_ done?
            The sound of chiding scorn
            Came from the land of dream;
  Deep to mine inmost heart I felt it thrill and burn,
      Thrust as a strong-grasped goad, to urge
        Onward the chariot's team.
      Thrilled, chilled with bitter inward pain
  I stand as one beneath the doomsman's scourge.
  Shame on the younger gods who tread down right,
      Sitting on thrones of might!
  Woe on the altar of earth's central fane!
      Clotted on step and shrine,
Behold, the guilt of blood, the ghastly stain!
  Woe upon thee, Apollo! uncontrolled,
    Unbidden, hast thou, prophet-god, imbrued
    The pure prophetic shrine with wrongful blood!
  For thou too heinous a respect didst hold
Of man, too little heed of powers divine!
    And us the Fates, the ancients of the earth,
        Didst deem as nothing worth.
Scornful to me thou art, yet shalt not fend
  My wrath from him; though unto hell he flee,
            There too are we!
And he the blood defiled, should feel and rue,
Though I were not, fiend-wrath that shall not end,
Descending on his head who foully slew.

[_Re-enter Apollo from the inner shrine._

APOLLO

Out! I command you. Out from this my home--
Haste, tarry not! Out from the mystic shrine,
Lest thy lot be to take into thy breast
The winged bright dart that from my golden string
Speeds hissing as a snake,--lest, pierced and thrilled
With agony, thou shouldst spew forth again
Black frothy heart's-blood, drawn from mortal men,
Belching the gory clots sucked forth from wounds.
These be no halls where such as you can prowl--
Go where men lay on men the doom of blood,
Heads lopped from necks, eyes from their Sphere plucked out,
Hacked flesh, the flower of youthful seed crushed or
Feet hewn away, and hands, and death beneath
The smiting stone, low moans and piteous
Of men impaled--Hark, hear ye for what feast
Ye hanker ever, and the loathing gods
Do spit upon your craving? Lo, your shape
Is all too fitted to your greed; the cave
Where lurks some lion, lapping gore, were home
More meet for you. Avaunt from sacred shrines,
Nor bring pollution by your touch on all
That nears you. Hence! and roam unshepherded--
No god there is to tend such herd as you.

CHORUS

O king Apollo, in our turn hear us'
Thou hast'not only part in these ill things,
But art chief cause and doer of the same.

APOLLO

How? stretch thy speech to tell this, and have done.

CHORUS

Thine oracle bade this man slay his mother.

APOLLO

I bade him quit his sire's death,--wherefore not?

CHORUS

Then didst thou aid and guard red-handed crime.

APOLLO

Yea, and I bade him to this temple flee.

CHORUS

And yet forsooth dost chide us following him!

APOLLO

Ay--not for you it is, to near this fane.

CHORUS

Yet is such office ours, imposed by fate.

APOLLO

What office? vaunt the thing ye deem so fair.

CHORUS

From home to home we chase the matricide.

APOLLO

What? to avenge a wife who slays her lord?

CHORUS

That is not blood outpoured by kindred hands.

APOLLO

How darkly ye dishonour and annul
The troth to which the high accomplishers,
Hera and Zeus, do honour. Yea, and thus
Is Aphrodite to dishonour cast,
The queen of rapture unto mortal men.
Know, that above the marriage-bed ordained
For man and woman standeth Right as guard,
Enhancing sanctity of troth-plight sworn;
Therefore, if thou art placable to those
Who have their consort slain, nor will'st to turn
On them the eye of wrath, unjust art thou
In hounding to his doom the man who slew
His mother. Lo, I know thee full of wrath
Against one deed, but all too placable
Unto the other, minishing the crime.
But in this cause shall Pallas guard the right.

CHORUS

Deem not my quest shall ever quit that man.

APOLLO

Follow then, make thee double toil in vain!

CHORUS

Think not by speech mine office to curtail.

APOLLO

None hast thou, that I would accept of thee!

CHORUS

Yea, high thine honour by the throne of Zeus:
But I, drawn on by scent of mother's blood,
Seek vengeance on this man and hound him down.

APOLLO

But I will stand beside him; 'tis for me
To guard my suppliant: gods and men alike
Do dread the curse of such an one betrayed,
And in me Fear and Will say _Leave him not_.

[_Exeunt omnes_

_The scene changes to Athens. In the foreground, the Temple of
Athena on the Acropolis; her statue stands in the centre; Orestes is
seen dinging to it._

ORESTES

Look on me, queen Athena; lo, I come
By Loxias' behest; thou of thy grace
Receive me, driven of avenging powers--
Not now a red-hand slayer unannealed,
But with guilt fading, half-effaced, outworn
On many homes and paths of mortal men.
For to the limit of each land, each sea,
I roamed, obedient to Apollo's hest,
And come at last, O Goddess, to thy fane,
And clinging to thine image, bide my doom.

[_Enter the Chorus of Furies, questing like hounds_

CHORUS

Ho! clear is here the trace of him we seek:
Follow the track of blood, the silent sign!
Like to some hound that hunts a wounded fawn,
We snuff along the scent of dripping gore,
And inwardly we pant, for many a day
Toiling in chase that shall fordo the man;
For o'er and o'er the wide land have I ranged,
And o'er the wide sea, flying without wings,
Swift as a sail I pressed upon his track,
Who now hard by is crouching, well I wot,
For scent of mortal blood allures me here.
    Follow,  seek him--round  and round
Scent and snuff and scan the ground,
Lest unharmed he slip away,
    He who did his mother slay!
Hist--he is there!  See him his arms entwine
Around the image of the maid divine--
    Thus aided, for the deed he wrought
Unto the judgment wills he to be brought.

It may not be! a mother's blood, poured forth
    Upon the stainèd earth,
None gathers up: it lies--bear witness, Hell!--
    For aye indelible!
And thou who sheddest it shalt give thine own
    That shedding to atone!
Yea, from thy living limbs I suck it out,
    Red, clotted, gout by gout,--
A draught abhorred of men and gods; but I
    Will drain it, suck thee dry;
Yea, I will waste thee living, nerve and vein;
    Yea, for thy mother slain,
Will drag thee downward, there where thou shalt dree
    The weird of agony!
And thou and whatsoe'er of men hath sinned--
    Hath wronged or God, or friend,
Or parent,--learn ye how to all and each
    The arm of doom can reach!
Sternly requiteth, in the world beneath,
    The judgment-seat of Death;
Yea, Death, beholding every man's endeavour
    Recordeth it for ever.

ORESTES

I, schooled in many miseries, have learnt
How many refuges of cleansing shrines
There be; I know when law alloweth speech
And when imposeth silence. Lo, I stand
Fixed now to speak, for he whose word is wise
Commands the same. Look, how the stain of blood
Is dull upon mine hand and wastes away,
And laved and lost therewith is the deep curse
Of matricide; for while the guilt was new,
'Twas banished from me at Apollo's hearth,
Atoned and purified by death of swine.
Long were my word if I should sum the tale,
How oft since then among my fellow-men
I stood and brought no curse. Time cleanses all--
Time, the coeval of all things that are.
Now from pure lips, in words of omen fair,
I call Athena, lady of this land,
To come, my champion: so, in aftertime,
She shall not fail of love and service deal,
Not won by war, from me and from my land
And all the folk of Argos, vowed to her.

Now, be she far away in Libyan land
Where flows from Triton's lake her natal wave,--
Stand she with planted feet, or in some hour
Of rest conceal them, champion of her friends
Where'er she be,--or whether o'er the plain
Phlegraean she look forth, as warrior bold--
I cry to her to come, where'er she be,
(And she, as goddess, from afar can hear,)
And aid and free me, set among my foes.

CHORUS

Thee not Apollo nor Athena's strength
Can save from perishing, a castaway
Amid the Lost, where no delight shall meet
Thy soul--a bloodless prey of nether powers,
A shadow among shadows. Answerest thou
Nothing? dost cast away my words with scorn,
Thou, prey prepared and dedicate to me?
Not as a victim slain upon the shrine,
But living shalt thou see thy flesh my food.
Hear now the binding chant that makes thee mine.

Weave the weird dance,--behold the hour
  To utter forth the chant of hell,
  Our sway among mankind to tell,
The guidance of our power.
Of Justice are we ministers,
  And whosoe'er of men may stand
  Lifting a pure unsullied hand,
That man no doom of ours incurs,
  And walks thro' all his mortal path
  Untouched by woe, unharmed by wrath.
  But if, as yonder man, he hath
Blood on the hands he strives to hide,
  We stand avengers at his side,
Decreeing, _Thou hast wronged the dead:
  We are doom's witnesses to thee_.
The price of blood, his hands have shed,
We wring from him; in life, in death,
  Hard at his side are we!

Night, Mother Night, who brought me forth, a torment
        To living men and dead,
Hear me, O hear! by Leto's stripling son
        I am dishonourèd:
He hath ta'en from me him who cowers in refuge,
        To me made consecrate,--
A rightful victim, him who slew his mother.
        Given o'er to me and fate.

        Hear the hymn of hell,
          O'er the victim sounding,--
        Chant of frenzy, chant of ill,
          Sense and will confounding!
        Round the soul entwining
          Without lute or lyre--
        Soul in madness pining,
          Wasting as with fire!

Fate, all-pervading Fate, this service spun, commanding
        That I should bide therein:
Whosoe'er of mortals, made perverse and lawless,
        Is stained with blood of kin,
By his side are we, and hunt him ever onward,
        Till to the Silent Land,
The realm of death, he cometh; neither yonder
        In freedom shall he stand.

        Hear the hymn of hell,
          O'er the victim sounding,--
        Chant of frenzy, chant of ill,
          Sense and will confounding!
        Round the soul entwining
          Without lute or lyre--
        Soul in madness pining,
          Wasting as with fire!

When from womb of Night we sprang, on us this labour
        Was laid and shall abide.
Gods immortal are ye, yet beware ye touch not
        That which is our pride!
None may come beside us gathered round the blood feast--
        For us no garments white
Gleam on a festal day; for us a darker fate is,
        Another darker rite.
That is mine hour when falls an ancient line--
        When in the household's heart
The god of blood doth slay by kindred hands,--
        Then do we bear our part:
On him who slays we sweep with chasing cry:
Though he be triply strong,
We wear and waste him; blood atones for blood,
New pain for ancient wrong.

I hold this task--'tis mine, and not another's.
The very gods on high,
Though they can silence and annul the prayers
Of those who on us cry,
They may not strive with us who stand apart,
A race by Zeus abhorred,
Blood-boltered, held unworthy of the council
And converse of Heaven's lord.
Therefore the more I leap upon my prey;
Upon their head I bound;
My foot is hard; as one that trips a runner
I cast them to the ground;
Yea, to the depth of doom intolerable;
And they who erst were great,
And upon earth held high their pride and glory,
Are brought to low estate.
In underworld they waste and are diminished,
The while around them fleet
Dark wavings of my robes, and, subtly woven,
The paces of my feet.

Who falls infatuate, he sees not, neither knows he
That we are at his side;
So closely round about him, darkly flitting,
The cloud of guilt doth glide.
Heavily 'tis uttered, how around his hearthstone
The mirk of hell doth rise.
Stern and fixed the law is; we have hands t'achieve it,
Cunning to devise.
Queens are we and mindful of our solemn vengeance.
Not by tear or prayer
Shall a man avert it. In unhonoured darkness,
Far from gods, we fare,
Lit unto our task with torch of sunless regions,
And o'er a deadly way--
Deadly to the living as to those who see not
    Life and light of day--
Hunt we and press onward.  Who of mortals hearing
    Doth not quake for awe,
Hearing all that Fate thro' hand of God hath given us
    For ordinance and law?
Yea, this right to us, in dark abysm and backward
    Of ages it befel:
None shall wrong mine office, tho' in nether regions
    And sunless dark I dwell.
[_Enter Athena from above_

ATHENA

Far off I heard the clamour of your cry,
As by Scamander's side I set my foot
Asserting right upon the land given o'er
To me by those who o'er Achaia's host
Held sway and leadership: no scanty part
Of all they won by spear and sword, to me
They gave it, land and all that grew theron,
As chosen heirloom for my Theseus' clan.
Thence summoned, sped I with a tireless foot,--
Hummed on the wind, instead of wings, the fold
Of this mine aegis, by my feet propelled,
As, linked to mettled horses, speeds a car.
And now, beholding here Earth's nether brood,
I fear it nought, yet are mine eyes amazed
With wonder. Who are ye? of all I ask,
And of this stranger to my statue clinging.
But ye--your shape is like no human form,
Like to no goddess whom the gods behold,
Like to no shape which mortal women wear.
Yet to stand by and chide a monstrous form
Is all unjust--from such words Right revolts.

CHORUS

O child of Zeus, one word shall tell thee all.
We are the children of eternal Night,
And Furies in the underworld are called.

ATHENA

I know your lineage now and eke your name.

CHORUS

Yea, and eftsoons indeed my rights shalt know.

ATHENA

Fain would I learn them; speak them clearly forth.

CHORUS

We chase from home the murderers of men.

ATHENA

And where at last can he that slew make pause?

CHORUS


Where this is law--_All joy abandon here._

ATHENA

Say, do ye bay this man to such a flight?

CHORUS

Yea, for of choice he did his mother slay.

ATHENA

Urged by no fear of other wrath and doom?

CHORUS

What spur can rightly goad to matricide?

ATHENA

Two stand to plead--one only have I heard.

CHORUS

He will not swear nor challenge us to oath.

ATHENA

The form of justice, not its deed, thou willest.

CHORUS

Prove thou that word; thou art not scant of skill.

ATHENA

I say that oaths shall not enforce the wrong.

CHORUS

Then test the cause, judge and award the right.

ATHENA

Will ye to me then this decision trust?

CHORUS

Yea, reverencing true child of worthy sire.

ATHENA (_to Orestes_)

O man unknown, make thou thy plea in turn
Speak forth thy land, thy lineage, and thy woes;
Then, if thou canst, avert this bitter blame--
If, as I deem, in confidence of right
Thou sittest hard beside my holy place,
Clasping this statue, as Ixion sat,
A sacred suppliant for Zeus to cleanse,--
To all this answer me in words made plain.

ORESTES

O queen Athena, first from thy last words
Will I a great solicitude remove.
Not one blood-guilty am I; no foul stain
Clings to thine image from my clinging hand;
Whereof one potent proof I have to tell.
Lo, the law stands--_The slayer shall not plead,
Till by the hand of him who cleanses blood
A suckling creature's blood besprinkle him_.
Long since have I this expiation done--
In many a home, slain beasts and running streams
Have cleansed me. Thus I speak away that fear.
Next, of my lineage quickly thou shalt learn:
An Argive am I, and right well thou know'st
My sire, that Agamemnon who arrayed
The fleet and them that went therein to war--
That chief with whom thy hand combined to crush
To an uncitied heap what once was Troy;
That Agamemnon, when he homeward came,
Was brought unto no honourable death,
Slain by the dark-souled wife who brought me forth
To him,--enwound and slain in wily nets,
Blazoned with blood that in the laver ran.
And I, returning from an exiled youth,
Slew her, my mother--lo, it stands avowed!
With blood for blood avenging my loved sire;
And in this deed doth Loxias bear part,
Decreeing agonies, to goad my will,
Unless by me the guilty found their doom.
Do thou decide if right or wrong were done--
Thy dooming, whatsoe'er it be, contents me.

ATHENA

Too mighty is this matter, whatsoe'er
Of mortals claims to judge hereof aright.
Yea, me, even me, eternal Right forbids
To judge the issues of blood-guilt, and wrath
That follows swift behind. This too gives pause,
That thou as one with all due rites performed
Dost come, unsinning, pure, unto my shrine.
Whate'er thou art, in this my city's name,
As uncondemned, I take thee to my side,--
Yet have these foes of thine such dues by fate,
I may not banish them: and if they fail,
O'erthrown in judgment of the cause, forthwith
Their anger's poison shall infect the land--
A dropping plague-spot of eternal ill.
Thus stand we with a woe on either hand:
Stay they, or go at my commandment forth,
Perplexity or pain must needs befall.
Yet, as on me Fate hath imposed the cause,
I choose unto me judges that shall be
An ordinance for ever, set to rule
The dues of blood-guilt, upon oath declared.
But ye, call forth your witness and your proof,
Words strong for justice, fortified by oath;
And I, whoe'er are truest in my town,
Them will I chose and bring, and straitly charge,
_Look on this cause, discriminating well,
And pledge your oath to utter nought of wrong.

[Exit Athena._


CHORUS

Now are they all undone, the ancient laws,
  If here the slayer's cause
Prevail; new wrong for ancient right shall be
  If matricide go free.
Henceforth a deed like his by all shall stand,
  Too ready to the hand:
Too oft shall parents in the aftertime
  Rue and lament this crime,--
Taught, not in false imagining, to feel
  Their children's thrusting steel:
No more the wrath, that erst on murder fell

  From us, the queens of Hell.
Shall fall, no more our watching gaze impend--
  Death shall smite unrestrained.

Henceforth shall one unto another cry
_Lo, they are stricken, lo, they fall and die
Around me!_ and that other answers him,
_O thou that lookest that thy woes should cease,
  Behold, with dark increase
They throng and press upon thee; yea, and dim
  Is all the cure, and every comfort vain!_

Let none henceforth cry out, when falls the blow
  Of sudden-smiting woe,
    Cry out in sad reiterated strain
  _O Justice, aid! aid, O ye thrones of Hell!_
      So though a father or a mother wail
    New-smitten by a son, it shall no more avail,
  Since, overthrown by wrong, the fane of Justice fell!

  Know, that a throne there is that may not pass away,
    And one that sitteth on it--even Fear,
  Searching with steadfast eyes man's inner soul:
  Wisdom is child of pain, and born with many a tear;
        But who henceforth,
  What man of mortal men, what nation upon earth,
    That holdeth nought in awe nor in the light
    Of inner reverence, shall worship Right
        As in the older day?

    Praise not, O man, the life beyond control,
    Nor that which bows unto a tyrant's sway.
        Know that the middle way
  Is dearest unto God, and they thereon who wend,
        They shall achieve the end;
    But they who wander or to left or right
        Are sinners in his sight.
      Take to thy heart this one, this soothfast word--
       Of wantonness impiety is sire;
      Only from calm control and sanity unstirred
    Cometh true weal, the goal of every man's desire.

    Yea, whatsoe'er befall, hold thou this word of mine:
          _Bow down at Justice' shrine,
        Turn thou thine eyes away from earthly lure,
      Nor with a godless foot that altar spurn._
      For as thou dost shall Fate do in return,
          And the great doom is sure.
      Therefore let each adore a parent's trust,
        And each with loyalty revere the guest
          That in his halls doth rest.
  For whoso uncompelled doth follow what is just,
          He ne'er shall be unblest;
        Yea, never to the gulf of doom
          That man shall come.
But he whose will is set against the gods,
  Who treads beyond the law with foot impure,

Till o'er the wreck of Right confusion broods--
  Know that for him, though now he sail secure,
The day of storm shall be; then shall he strive and fail,
  Down from the shivered yard to furl the sail,
And call on Powers, that heed him nought, to save
  And vainly wrestle with the whirling wave,
    Hot was his heart with pride--
    _I shall not fall_, he cried.
    But him with watching scorn
    The god beholds, forlorn,
  Tangled in toils of Fate beyond escape,
  Hopeless of haven safe beyond the cape--
Till all his wealth and bliss of bygone day
  Upon the reef of Rightful Doom is hurled,
    And he is rapt away
Unwept, for ever, to the dead forgotten world.

[_Re-enter Athena, with twelve Athenian citizens_.

ATHENA

O herald, make proclaim, bid all men come.
Then let the shrill blast of the Tyrrhene trump,
Fulfilled with mortal breath, thro' the wide air
Peal a loud summons, bidding all men heed.
For, till my judges fill this judgment-seat,
Silence behoves,--that this whole city learn,
What for all time mine ordinance commands,
And these men, that the cause be judged aright.

[_Apollo approaches._

CHORUS

O king Apollo, rule what is thine own,
But in this thing what share pertains to thee?

APOLLO

First, as a witness come I, for this man
Is suppliant of mine by sacred right,
Guest of my holy hearth and cleansed by me
Of blood-guilt: then, to set me at his side
And in his cause bear part, as part I bore
Erst in his deed, whereby his mother fell.
Let whoso knoweth now announce the cause.

ATHENA (_to the Chorus_)

'Tis I announce the cause--first speech be yours;
For rightfully shall they whose plaint is tried
Tell the tale first and set the matter clear.

CHORUS

Though we be many, brief shall be our tale.
(_To Orestes_) Answer thou, setting word to match with
word;
And first avow--hast thou thy mother slain?

ORESTES

I slew her. I deny no word hereof.

CHORUS

Three falls decide the wrestle--this is one.

ORESTES

Thou vauntest thee--but o'er no final fall.

CHORUS

Yet must thou tell the manner of thy deed.

ORESTES

Drawn sword in hand, I gashed her neck. Tis told.

CHORUS

But by whose word, whose craft, wert thou impelled?

ORESTES

By oracles of him who here attests me.


CHORUS

The prophet-god bade thee thy mother slay?

ORESTES

Yea, and thro' him less ill I fared, till now.

CHORUS

If the vote grip thee, thou shalt change that word.

ORESTES

Strong is my hope; my buried sire shall aid.

CHORUS

Go to now, trust the dead, a matricide!

ORESTES

Yea, for in her combined two stains of sin.

CHORUS

How? speak this clearly to the judges' mind.

ORESTES

Slaying her husband, she did slay my sire.

CHORUS

Therefore thou livest; death assoils her deed.

ORESTES

Then while she lived why didst thou hunt her not?

CHORUS

She was not kin by blood to him she slew.

ORESTES

And I, am I by blood my mother's kin?

CHORUS

O cursed with murder's guilt, how else wert thou
The burden of her womb? Dost thou forswear
Thy mother's kinship, closest bond of love?

ORESTES

It is thine hour, Apollo--speak the law,
Averring if this deed were justly done;
For done it is, and clear and undenied.
But if to thee this murder's cause seem right
Or wrongful, speak--that I to these may tell.

APOLLO

To you, Athena's mighty council-court,
Justly for justice will I plead, even I,
The prophet-god, nor cheat you by one word.
For never spake I from my prophet-seat
One word, of man, of woman, or of state,
Save what the Father of Olympian gods
Commanded unto me. I rede you then,
Bethink you of my plea, how strong it stands,
And follow the decree of Zeus our sire,--
For oaths prevail not over Zeus' command.

CHORUS

Go to; thou sayest that from Zeus befel
The oracle that this Orestes bade
With vengeance quit the slaying of his sire,
And hold as nought his mother's right of kin!

APOLLO

Yea, for it stands not with a common death,
That he should die, a chieftain and a king
Decked with the sceptre which high heaven confers--
Die, and by female hands, not smitten down
By a far-shooting bow, held stalwartly
By some strong Amazon. Another doom
Was his: O Pallas, hear, and ye who sit
In judgment, to discern this thing aright!--
She with a specious voice of welcome true
Hailed him, returning from the mighty mart
Where war for life gives fame, triumphant home;
Then o'er the laver, as he bathed himself,
She spread from head to foot a covering net,
And in the endless mesh of cunning robes
Enwound and trapped her lord, and smote him down.
Lo, ye have heard what doom this chieftain met,
The majesty of Greece, the fleet's high lord:
Such as I tell it, let it gall your ears,
Who stand as judges to decide this cause.

CHORUS

Zeus, as thou sayest, holds a father's death
As first of crimes,--yet he of his own act
Cast into chains his father, Cronos old:
How suits that deed with that which now ye tell?
O ye who judge, I bid ye mark my words!

APOLLO

O monsters loathed of all, O scorn of gods,
He that hath bound may loose: a cure there is,
Yea, many a plan that can unbind the chain.
But when the thirsty dust sucks up man's blood
Once shed in death, he shall arise no more.
No chant nor charm for this my Sire hath wrought.
All else there is, he moulds and shifts at will,
Not scant of strength nor breath, whate'er he do.

CHORUS

Think yet, for what acquittal thou dost plead:
He who hath shed a mother's kindred blood,
Shall he in Argos dwell, where dwelt his sire?
How shall he stand before the city's shrines,
How share the clansmen's holy lustral bowl?

APOLLO

This too I answer; mark a soothfast word,
Not the true parent is the woman's womb
That bears the child; she doth but nurse the seed
New-sown: the male is parent; she for him,
As stranger for a stranger, hoards the germ
Of life; unless the god its promise blight.
And proof hereof before you will I set.
Birth may from fathers, without mothers, be:
See at your side a witness of the same,
Athena, daughter of Olympian Zeus,
Never within the darkness of the womb
Fostered nor fashioned, but a bud more bright
Than any goddess in her breast might bear.
And I, O Pallas, howsoe'er I may,
Henceforth will glorify thy town, thy clan,
And for this end have sent my suppliant here
Unto thy shrine; that he from this time forth
Be loyal unto thee for evermore,
O goddess-queen, and thou unto thy side
Mayst win and hold him faithful, and his line,
And that for aye this pledge and troth remain
To children's children of Athenian seed.

ATHENA

Enough is said; I bid the judges now
With pure intent deliver just award.

CHORUS

We too have shot our every shaft of speech,
And now abide to hear the doom of law.

ATHENA (_to Apollo and Orestes_)

Say, how ordaining shall I 'scape your blame?

APOLLO

I spake, ye heard; enough. O stranger men,
Heed well your oath as ye decide the cause.

ATHENA

O men of Athens, ye who first do judge
The law of bloodshed, hear me now ordain.
Here to all time for Aegeus' Attic host
Shall stand this council-court of judges sworn,
Here the tribunal, set on Ares' Hill
Where camped of old the tented Amazons,
What time in hate of Theseus they assailed
Athens, and set against her citadel
A counterwork of new sky-pointing towers,
And there to Ares held their sacrifice,
Where now the rock hath name, even Ares' Hill.
And hence shall Reverence and her kinsman Fear
Pass to each free man's heart, by day and night
Enjoining, _Thou shalt do no unjust thing_,
So long as law stands as it stood of old
Unmarred by civic change.   Look you, the spring
Is pure; but foul it once with influx vile

And muddy clay, and none can drink thereof.
Therefore, O citizens, I bid ye bow
In awe to this command, _Let no man live
Uncurbed by law nor curbed by tyranny;_
Nor banish ye the monarchy of Awe
Beyond the walls; untouched by fear divine,
No man doth justice in the world of men.
Therefore in purity and holy dread
Stand and revere; so shall ye have and hold
A saving bulwark of the state and land,
Such as no man hath ever elsewhere known,
Nor in far Scythia, nor in Pelops' realm.
Thus I ordain it now, a council-court
Pure and unsullied by the lust of gain,
Sacred and swift to vengeance, wakeful ever
To champion men who sleep, the country's guard.
Thus have I spoken, thus to mine own clan
Commended it for ever. Ye who judge,
Arise, take each his vote, mete out the right,
Your oath revering. Lo, my word is said.

[_The twelve judges come forward, one by one, to the urns of
decision; the first votes; as each of the others follows, the Chorus
and Apollo speak alternately._

CHORUS

I rede ye well, beware! nor put to shame,
In aught, this grievous company of hell.

APOLLO

I too would warn you, fear mine oracles--
From Zeus they are,--nor make them void of fruit.

CHORUS

Presumptuous is thy claim, blood-guilt to judge,
And false henceforth thine oracles shall be.

APOLLO

Failed then the counsels of my sire, when turned
Ixion, first of slayers, to his side?

CHORUS

These are but words; but I, if justice fail me,
Will haunt this land in grim and deadly deed.

APOLLO

Scorn of the younger and the elder gods
Art thou: 'tis I that shall prevail anon.

CHORUS

Thus didst thou too of old in Pheres' halls,
O'errcaching Fate to make a mortal deathless.

APOLLO

Was it not well, my worshipper to aid,
Then most of all when hardest was the need?

CHORUS

I say thou didst annul the lots of life,
Cheating with wine the deities of eld.

APOLLO

I say thou shalt anon, thy pleadings foiled,
Spit venom vainly on thine enemies.

CHORUS

Since this young god o'errides mine ancient right
I tarry but to claim your law, not knowing
If wrath of mine shall blast your state or spare

ATHENA

Mine is the right to add the final vote,
And I award it to Orestes' cause.
For me no mother bore within her womb,
And, save for wedlock evermore eschewed,
I vouch myself the champion of the man,
Not of the woman, yea, with all my soul,--
In heart, as birth, a father's child alone.
Thus will I not too heinously regard
A woman's death who did her husband slay,
The guardian of her home; and if the votes
Equal do fall, Orestes shall prevail.
Ye of the judges who are named thereto,
Swiftly shake forth the lots from either urn.

[_Two judges come forward, one to each urn._

ORESTES

O bright Apollo, what shall be the end?

CHORUS

O Night, dark mother mine, dost mark these things?

OSESTES

Now shall my doom be life, or strangling cords.

CHORUS

And mine, lost honour or a wider sway.

APOLLO

O stranger judges, sum aright the count
Of votes cast forth, and, parting them, take heed
Ye err not in decision. The default
Of one vote only bringeth ruin deep,
One, cast aright, doth stablish house and home.

ATHENA

Behold, this man is free from guilt of blood,
For half the votes condemn him, half set free!

ORESTES

O Pallas, light and safety of my home,
Thou, thou hast given me back to dwell once more
In that my fatherland, amerced of which
I wandered; now shall Grecian lips say this,
_The man is Argive once again, and dwells
Again within his father's wealthy hall,
By Pallas saved, by Loxias, and by Him,
The great third saviour, Zeus omnipotent--_
Who thus in pity for my father's fate
Doth pluck me from my doom, beholding these,
Confederates of my mother. Lo, I pass
To mine own home, but proffering this vow
Unto thy land and people: _Nevermore,
Thro' all the manifold years of Time to be,
Shall any chieftain of mine Argive land
Bear hitherward his spears for fight arrayed._
For we, though lapped in earth we then shall lie,
By thwart adversities will work our will
On them who shall transgress this oath of mine,
Paths of despair and journeyings ill-starred
For them ordaining, till their task they rue.
But if this oath be rightly kept, to them
Will we the dead be full of grace, the while
With loyal league they honour Pallas' town.
And now farewell, thou and thy city's folk--
Firm be thine arm's grasp, closing with thy foes
And, strong to save, bring victory to thy spear.

[_Exit Orestes, with Apollo._

CHORUS

Woe on you, younger gods! the ancient right
Ye have o'erridden, rent it from my hands.

I am dishonoured of you, thrust to scorn!
    But heavily my wrath
Shall on this land fling forth the drops that blast and burn
  Venom of vengeance, that shall work such scathe
  As I have suffered; where that dew shall fall,
      Shall leafless blight arise,
  Wasting Earth's offspring,--Justice, hear my call!--
  And thorough all the land in deadly wise
  Shall scatter venom, to exude again
      In pestilence on men.
  What cry avails me now, what deed of blood,
  Unto this land what dark despite?
      Alack, alack, forlorn
  Are we, a bitter injury have borne!
  Alack, O sisters, O dishonoured brood
      Of mother Night!

ATHENA

Nay, bow ye to my words, chafe not nor moan:
Ye are not worsted nor disgraced; behold,
With balanced vote the cause had issue fair,
Nor in the end did aught dishonour thee.
But thus the will of Zeus shone clearly forth,
And his own prophet-god avouched the same,
_Orestes slew: his slaying is atoned_.
Therefore I pray you, not upon this land
Shoot forth the dart of vengeance; be appeased,
Nor blast the land with blight, nor loose thereon
Drops of eternal venom, direful darts
Wasting and marring nature's seed of growth.

For I, the queen of Athens' sacred right,
Do pledge to you a holy sanctuary
Deep in the heart of this my land, made just
By your indwelling presence, while ye sit
Hard by your sacred shrines that gleam with oil
Of sacrifice, and by this folk adored.

CHORUS

Woe on you, younger gods! the ancient right
Ye have o'erridden, rent it from my hands.

I am dishonoured of you, thrust to scorn!
  But heavily my wrath
Shall on his land fling forth the drops that blast and burn.
  Venom of vengeance, that shall work such scathe
  As I have suffered; where that dew shall fall,
    Shall leafless blight arise,
Wasting Earth's offspring,--Justice, hear my call!--
And thorough all the land in deadly wise
Shall scatter venom, to exude again
  In pestilence of men.
What cry avails me now, what deed of blood,
Unto this land what dark despite?
  Alack, alack, forlorn
Are we, a bitter injury have borne!
Alack, O sisters, O dishonoured brood
  Of mother Night!

ATHENA

Dishonoured are ye not; turn not, I pray.
As goddesses your swelling wrath on men,
Nor make the friendly earth despiteful to them.
I too have Zeus for champion--'tis enough--
I only of all goddesses do know.
To ope the chamber where his thunderbolts
Lie stored and sealed; but here is no such need.
Nay, be appeased, nor cast upon the ground
The malice of thy tongue, to blast the world;
Calm thou thy bitter wrath's black inward surge,
For high shall be thine honour, set beside me
For ever in this land, whose fertile lap
Shall pour its teeming firstfruits unto you,
Gifts for fair childbirth and for wedlock's crown:
Thus honoured, praise my spoken pledge for aye.

CHORUS

I, I dishonoured in this earth to dwell,--
Ancient of days and wisdom! I breathe forth
Poison and breath of frenzied ire. O Earth,
    Woe, woe, for thee, for me!
From side to side what pains be these that thrill?
Hearken, O mother Night, my wrath, mine agony!
Whom from mine ancient rights the gods have thrust
    And brought me to the dust--
Woe, woe is me!--with craft invincible.

ATHENA

Older art thou than I, and I will bear
With this thy fury.  Know, although thou be
More wise in ancient wisdom, yet have I
From Zeus no scanted measure of the same,
Wherefore take heed unto this prophecy--
If to another land of alien men
Ye go, too late shall ye feel longing deep
For mine.  The rolling tides of time bring round
A day of brighter glory for this town;
And thou, enshrined in honour by the halls
Where dwelt Erechtheus, shalt a worship win
From men and from the train of womankind,
Greater than any tribe elsewhere shall pay.
Cast thou not therefore on this soil of mine
Whetstones that sharpen souls to bloodshedding.
The burning goads of youthful hearts, made hot
With frenzy of the spirit, not of wine.
Nor pluck as 'twere the heart from cocks that strive,
To set it in the breasts of citizens
Of mine, a war-god's spirit, keen for fight,
Made stern against their country and their kin.
The man who grievously doth lust for fame,
War, full, immitigable, let him wage
Against the stranger; but of kindred birds
I hold the challenge hateful. Such the boon
I proffer thee--within this land of lands,
Most loved of gods, with me to show and share
Fair mercy, gratitude and grace as fair.

CHORUS

I, I dishonoured in this earth to dwell,--
Ancient of days and wisdom! I breathe forth
Poison and breath of frenzied ire. O Earth,
       Woe, woe for thee, for me!
From side to side what pains be these that thrill?
Hearken, O mother Night, my wrath, mine agony!
Whom from mine ancient rights the gods have thrust,
       And brought me to the dust--
Woe, woe is me!--with craft invincible.

ATHENA

I will not weary of soft words to thee,
That never mayst thou say, _Behold me spurned,
An elder by a younger deity,
And from this land rejected and forlorn,
Unhonoured by the men who dwell therein_.
But, if Persuasion's grace be sacred to thee,
Soft in the soothing accents of my tongue,
Tarry, I pray thee; yet, if go thou wilt,
Not rightfully wilt thou on this my town
Sway down the scale that beareth wrath and teen
Or wasting plague upon this folk. 'Tis thine,
If so thou wilt, inheritress to be
Of this my land, its utmost grace to win.

CHORUS

O queen, what refuge dost thou promise me?

ATHENA

Refuge untouched by bale: take thou my boon.

CHORUS

What, if I take it, shall mine honour be?

ATHENA

No house shall prosper without grace of thine.

CHORUS

Canst thou achieve and grant such power to me?

ATHENA

Yea, for my hand shall bless thy worshippers.

CHORUS

And wilt thou pledge me this for time eterne?

ATHENA

Yea: none can bid me pledge beyond my power.

CHORUS

Lo, I desist from wrath, appeased by thee.

ATHENA

Then in the land's heart shalt thou win thee friends.

CHORUS

What chant dost bid me raise, to greet the land?

ATHENA

Such as aspires towards a victory
Unrued by any: chants from breast of earth,
From wave, from sky; and let the wild winds' breath
Pass with soft sunlight o'er the lap of land,--
Strong wax the fruits of earth, fair teem the kine,
Unfailing, for my town's prosperity,
And constant be the growth of mortal seed.
But more and more root out the impious,
For as a gardener fosters what he sows,
So foster I this race, whom righteousness
Doth fend from sorrow. Such the proffered boon.
But I, if wars must be, and their loud clash
And carnage, for my town, will ne'er endure
That aught but victory shall crown her fame.

CHORUS

Lo, I accept it; at her very side
    Doth Pallas bid me dwell:
  I will not wrong the city of her pride,
Which even Almighty Zeus and Ares hold
    Heaven's earthly citadel,
Loved home of Grecian gods, the young, the old,
    The sanctuary divine,
    The shield of every shrine!
For Athens I say forth a gracious prophecy,--
  The glory of the sunlight and the skies
    Shall bid from earth arise
Warm wavelets of new life and glad prosperity.

ATHENA

    Behold, with gracious heart well pleased
       I for my citizens do grant
       Fulfilment of this covenant:
    And here, their wrath at length appeased,
       These mighty deities shall stay,
     For theirs it is by right to sway
The lot that rules our mortal day,
       And he who hath not inly felt
      Their stern decree, ere long on him,
      Not knowing why and whence, the grim
       Life-crushing blow is dealt.
       The father's sin upon the child
      Descends, and sin is silent death,
      And leads him on the downward path,
         By stealth beguiled,
       Unto the Furies: though his state
      On earth were high, and loud his boast,
       Victim of silent ire and hate
         He dwells among the Lost.

CHORUS

To my blessing now give ear.--
Scorching blight nor singèd air
Never blast thine olives fair!
Drouth, that wasteth bud and plant,
Keep to thine own place.  Avaunt,
Famine fell, and come not hither
Stealthily to waste and wither!
Let the land, in season due,
Twice her waxing fruits renew;
Teem the kine in double measure;
Rich in new god-given treasure;
Here let men the powers adore
For sudden gifts unhoped before!

ATHENA

  O hearken, warders of the wall
  That guards mine Athens, what a dower
  Is unto her ordained and given!
For mighty is the Furies' power,
  And deep-revered in courts of heaven
And realms of hell; and clear to all
  They weave thy doom, mortality!
And some in joy and peace shall sing;
But unto other some they bring
  Sad life and tear-dimmed eye.

CHORUS

And far away I ban thee and remove,
  Untimely death of youths too soon brought low!
And to each maid, O gods, when time is come for love,
  Grant ye a warrior's heart, a wedded life to know.
Ye too, O Fates, children of mother Night,
  Whose children too are we, O goddesses
Of just award, of all by sacred right
  Queens who in time and in eternity
Do rule, a present power for righteousness,
  Honoured beyond all Gods, hear ye and grant my cry!

ATHENA

And I too, I with joy am fain,
Hearing your voice this gift ordain
Unto my land.  High thanks be thine,
Persuasion, who with eyes divine
Into my tongue didst look thy strength,
  To bend and to appease at length
Those who would not be comforted.
  Zeus, king of parley, doth prevail,
And ye and I will strive nor fail,
  That good may stand in evil's stead,
And lasting bliss for bale.

CHORUS

And nevermore these walls within
Shall echo fierce sedition's din
  Unslaked with blood and crime;
The thirsty dust shall nevermore
Suck up the darkly streaming gore
Of civic broils, shed out in wrath
And vengeance, crying death for death!
But man with man and state with state
Shall vow _The pledge of common hate
And common friendship, that for man
Hath oft made blessing out of ban,
Be ours unto all time_.

ATHENA

Skill they, or not, the path to find
Of favouring speech and presage kind?
Yea, even from these, who, grim and stern,
  Glared anger upon you of old,
O citizens, ye now shall earn
  A recompense right manifold.
Deck them aright, extol them high,
Be loyal to their loyalty,
  And ye shall make your town and land
  Sure, propped on Justice' saving hand,
And Fame's eternity.

CHORUS

  Hail ye, all hail! and yet again, all hail
    O Athens, happy in a weal secured!
  O ye who sit by Zeus' right hand, nor fail
    Of wisdom set among you and assured,
  Loved of the well-loved Goddess-Maid! the King
Of gods doth reverence you, beneath her guarding wing.

ATHENA

All hail unto each honoured guest!
Whom to the chambers of your rest
'Tis mine to lead, and to provide
The hallowed torch, the guard and guide.
Pass down, the while these altars glow
With sacred fire, to earth below
  And your appointed shrine.
There dwelling, from the land restrain
The force of fate, the breath of bane,
But waft on us the gift and gain
  Of Victory divine!
And ye, the men of Cranaos' seed,
I bid you now with reverence lead
These alien Powers that thus are made
Athenian evermore. To you
Fair be their will henceforth, to do
  Whate'er may bless and aid!

CHORUS
Hail to you all! hail yet again,
All who love Athens, Gods and men,
    Adoring her as Pallas' home!
And while ye reverence what ye grant--
My sacred shrine and hidden haunt--
  Blameless and blissful be your doom!

ATHENA
Once more I praise the promise of your vows,
And now I bid the golden torches' glow
Pass down before you to the hidden depth
Of earth, by mine own sacred servants borne,
Mv loyal guards of statue and of shrine.
Come forth, O flower of Theseus' Attic land,
O glorious band of children and of wives,
And ye, O train of matrons crowned with eld!
Deck you with festal robes of scarlet dye
In honour of this day: O gleaming torch,
Lead onward, that these gracious powers of earth
Henceforth be seen to bless the life of men.

[_Athena leads the procession downwards into the Cave of the Furies,
under Areopagus: as they go, the escort of women and children chant
aloud._

CHANT

With loyalty we lead you; proudly go,
Night's childless children, to your home below!
  (_O citizens, awhile from words forbear!_)
  To darkness' deep primeval lair,
  Far in Earth's bosom, downward fare,
  Adored with prayer and sacrifice.
    (_O citizens, forbear your cries!_)
  Pass hitherward, ye powers of Dread,
  With all your former wrath allayed,
    Into the heart of this loved land;
  With joy unto your temple wend,
  The while upon your steps attend
    The flames that fed upon the brand--
(_Now, now ring out your chant, your joy's acclaim!_)
    Behind them, as they downward fare,
    Let holy hands libations bear,
        And torches' sacred flame.
    All-seeing Zeus and Fate come down
    To battle fair for Pallas' town!
_Ring out your chant, ring out your joy's acclaim!_

[_Exeunt omnes._





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The House of Atreus, by AEschylus





E-text prepared by Ted Garvin, Marc D'Hooghe, Charles Franks, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team



AUTHORS OF GREECE

By the Reverend T. W. LUMB, M.A.

With an Introduction by

The Reverend CYRIL ALINGTON, D.D.






AUTHOR'S PREFACE


Greek literature is more modern in its tone than Latin or Medieval or
Elizabethan. It is the expression of a society living in an environment
singularly like our own, mainly democratic, filled with a spirit of
free inquiry, troubled by obstinate feuds and still more obstinate
problems. Militarism, nationalism, socialism and communism were well
known, the preachers of some of these doctrines being loud, ignorant
and popular. The defence of a maritime empire against a military
oligarchy was twice attempted by the most quick-witted people in history,
who failed to save themselves on both occasions. Antecedently then we
might expect to find some lessons of value in the record of a people
whose experiences were like our own.

Further, human thought as expressed in literature is not an
unconnected series of phases; it is one and indivisible. Neglect of
either ancient or modern culture cannot but be a maiming of that great
body of knowledge to which every human being has free access. No man
can be anything but ridiculous who claims to judge European literature
while he knows nothing of the foundations on which it is built.
Neither is it true to say that the ancient world was different from
ours. Human nature at any rate was the same then as it is now, and
human character ought to be the primary object of study. The strange
belief that we have somehow changed for the better has been strong
enough to survive the most devilish war in history, but few hold it
who are familiar with the classics.

Yet in spite of its obvious value Greek literature has been damned and
banned in our enlightened age by some whose sole qualification for the
office of critic often turns out to be a mental darkness about it so
deep that, like that of Egypt, it can be felt. Only those who know
Greek literature have any right to talk about its powers of survival.
The following pages try to show that it is not dead yet, for it has a
distinct message to deliver. The skill with which these neglected
liberators of the human mind united depth of thought with perfection
of form entitles them at least to be heard with patience.




CONTENTS


AUTHOR'S PREFACE.

HOMER

AESCHYLUS

SOPHOCLES

EURIPIDES

ARISTOPHANES

HERODOTUS

THUCYDIDES

PLATO

DEMOSTHENES




INTRODUCTION


I count it an honour to have been asked to write a short introduction
to this book. My only claim to do so is a profound belief in the
doctrine which it advocates, that Greek literature can never die and
that it has a clear and obvious message for us to-day. Those who sat,
as I did, on the recent Committee appointed by Mr. Lloyd George when
Prime Minister to report on the position of the classics in this
country, saw good reason to hope that the prejudice against Greek to
which the author alludes in his preface was passing away: it is a
strange piece of irony that it should ever have been encouraged in the
name of Science which owes to the Greeks so incalculable a debt. We
found that, though there are many parts of the country in which it is
almost impossible for a boy, however great his literary promise, to be
taught Greek, there is a growing readiness to recognise this state of
affairs as a scandal, and wherever Greek was taught, whether to girls
or boys, we found a growing recognition of its supreme literary value.
There were some at least of us who saw with pleasure that where only
one classical language can be studied there is an increasing readiness
to regard Greek as a possible alternative to Latin.

On this last point, no doubt, classical scholars will continue to
differ, but as to the supreme excellence of the Greek contribution to
literature there can be no difference of opinion. Those to whom the
names of this volume recall some of the happiest hours they have spent
in literary study will be grateful to Mr. Lumb for helping others to
share the pleasures which they have so richly enjoyed; he writes with
an enthusiasm which is infectious, and those to whom his book comes as
a first introduction to the great writers of Greece will be moved to
try to learn more of men whose works after so many centuries inspire
so genuine an affection and teach lessons so modern. They need have no
fear that they will be disappointed, for Mr. Lumb's zeal is based on
knowledge. I hope that this book will be the means of leading many to
appreciate what has been done for the world by the most amazing of all
its cities, and some at least to determine that they will investigate
its treasures for themselves. They will find like the Queen of Sheba
that, though much has been told them, the half remains untold.

C. A. ALINGTON.





HOMER


Greek literature opens with a problem of the first magnitude. Two
splendid Epics have been preserved which are ascribed to "Homer", yet
few would agree that Homer wrote them both. Many authorities have
denied altogether that such a person ever existed; it seems certain
that he could not have been the author of both the _Iliad_ and the
_Odyssey_, for the latter describes a far more advanced state of
society; it is still an undecided question whether the _Iliad_ was
written in Europe or in Asia, but the probability is that the
_Odyssey_ is of European origin; the date of the poems it is very
difficult to gauge, though the best authorities place it somewhere in
the eighth century B.C. Fortunately these difficulties do not
interfere with our enjoyment of the two poems; if there were two
Homers, we may be grateful to Nature for bestowing her favours so
liberally upon us; if Homer never existed at all, but is a mere
nickname for a class of singer, the literary fraud that has been
perpetrated is no more serious than that which has assigned
Apocalyptic visions of different ages to Daniel. Perhaps the Homeric
poems are the growth of many generations, like the English parish
churches; they resemble them as being examples of the exquisite
effects which may be produced when the loving care and the reverence
of a whole people blend together in different ages pieces of artistic
work whose authors have been content to remain unnamed.

It is of some importance to remember that the Iliad is not the story
of the whole Trojan war, but only of a very small episode which was
worked out in four days. The real theme is the Wrath of Achilles. In
the tenth year of the siege the Greeks had captured a town called
Chryse. Among the captives were two maidens, one Chryseis, the
daughter of Chryses, a priest of Apollo, the other Briseis; the former
had fallen to the lot of Agamemnon, the King of the Greek host, the
latter to Achilles his bravest follower. Chryses, father of Chryseis,
went to Agamemnon to ransom his daughter, but was treated with
contumely; accordingly he prayed to the god to avenge him and was
answered, for Apollo sent a pestilence upon the Greeks which raged for
nine days, destroying man and beast. On the tenth day the chieftains
held a counsel to discover the cause of the malady. At it Chalcas the
seer before revealing the truth obtained the promise of Achilles'
protection; when Agamemnon learned that he was to ransom his captive,
his anger burst out against the seer and he demanded another prize in
return. Achilles upbraided his greed, begging him to wait till Troy
was taken, when he would be rewarded fourfold. Agamemnon in reply
threatened to take Achilles' captive Briseis, at the same time
describing his follower's character. "Thou art the most hateful to me
of all Kings sprung of Zeus, for thou lovest alway strife and wars and
battles. Mighty though thou art, thy might is the gift of some god.
Briseis I will take, that thou mayest know how far stronger I am than
thou, and that another may shrink from deeming himself my equal,
rivalling me to my face." At this insult Achilles half drew his sword
to slay the King, but was checked by Pallas Athena, who bade him
confine his resentment to taunts, for the time would come when
Agamemnon would offer him splendid gifts to atone for the wrong.
Obeying the goddess Achilles reviled his foe, swearing a solemn oath
that he would not help the Greeks when Hector swept them away. In vain
did Nestor, the wise old counsellor who had seen two generations of
heroes, try to make up the quarrel, beseeching Agamemnon not to
outrage his best warrior and Achilles not to contend with his leader.
The meeting broke up; Achilles departed to his huts, whence the
heralds in obedience to Agamemnon speedily carried away Briseis.

Going down to the sea-shore Achilles called upon Thetis his mother to
whom he told the story of his ill-treatment. In deep pity for his fate
(for he was born to a life of a short span), she promised that she
would appeal to Zeus to help him to his revenge; she had saved Zeus
from destruction by summoning the hundred-armed Briareus to check a
revolt among the gods against Zeus' authority. For the moment the king
of the gods was absent in Aethiopia; when he returned to Olympus on
the twelfth day she would win him over. Ascending to heaven, she
obtained the promise of Zeus' assistance, not without raising the
suspicions of Zeus' jealous consort Hera; a quarrel between them was
averted by their son Hephaestus, whose ungainly performance of the
duties of cupbearer to the Immortals made them forget all resentments
in laughter unquenchable.

True to his promise Zeus sent a dream to Agamemnon to assure him that
he would at last take Troy. The latter determined to summon an
Assembly of the host. In it the changeable temper of the Greeks is
vividly pictured. First Agamemnon told how he had the promise of
immediate triumph; when the army eagerly called for battle, he spoke
yet again describing their long years of toil and advising them to
break up the siege and fly home, for Troy was not to be taken. This
speech was welcomed with even greater enthusiasm than the other, the
warriors rushing down to the shore to launch away. Aghast at the
coming failure of the enterprise Athena stirred up Odysseus to check
the mad impulse. Taking from Agamemnon his royal sceptre as the sign
of authority, he pleaded with chieftains and their warriors, telling
them that it was not for them to know the counsel in the hearts of
Kings.

    "We are not all Kings to bear rule here. 'Tis not good to have many
    Lords; let there be one Lord, one King, to whom the crooked-counselling
    son of Cronos hath given the rule."

Thus did Odysseus stop the flight, bringing to reason all save
Thersites, "whose heart was full of much unseemly wit, who talked
rashly and unruly, striving with Kings, saying what he deemed would
make the Achaeans smile".

He continued his chatter, bidding the Greeks persist in their homeward
flight. Knowing that argument with such an one was vain, Odysseus laid
his sceptre across his back with such heartiness that a fiery weal
started up beneath the stroke. The host praised the act, the best of
the many good deeds that Odysseus had done before Troy.

When the Assembly was stilled, Odysseus and Nestor and Agamemnon told
the plan of action; the dream bade them arm for a mighty conflict, for
the end could not be far off, the ten years' siege that had been
prophesied being all but completed. The names of the various
chieftains and the numbers of their ships are found in the famous
catalogue, a document which the Greeks treasured as evidence of united
action against a common foe. With equal eagerness the Trojans poured
from their town commanded by Hector; their host too has received from
Homer the glory of an everlasting memory in a detailed catalogue.

Literary skill of a high order has brought upon the scene as quickly
as possible the chief figures of the poem. When the armies were about
to meet, Paris, seeing Menelaus whom he had wronged, shrank from the
combat. On being upbraided by Hector who called him "a joy to his foes
and a disgrace to himself", Paris was stung to an act of courage.
Hector's heart was as unwearied as an axe, his spirit knew not fear;
yet beauty too was a gift of the gods, not to be cast away. Let him be
set to fight Menelaus in single combat for Helen and her wealth; let
an oath be made between the two armies to abide by the result of the
fight, that both peoples might end the war and live in peace.
Overjoyed, Hector called to the Greeks telling them of Paris' offer,
which Menelaus accepted. The armies sat down to witness the fight,
while Hector sent to Troy to fetch Priam to ratify the treaty.

In Troy the elders were seated on the wall to watch the conflict,
Priam among them. Warned by Iris, Helen came forth to witness the
single combat. As she moved among them the elders bore their testimony
to her beauty; its nature is suggested but not described, for the poet
felt he was unable to paint her as she was.

    "Little wonder," they exclaimed, "that the Trojans and Achaeans
    should suffer woe for many a year for such a woman. She is marvellous
    like the goddesses to behold; yet albeit she is so fair let her depart
    in the ships, leaving us and our little ones no trouble to come."

Seeing her, Priam bade her sit by him and tell the names of the Greek
leaders as they passed before his eyes. Agamemnon she knew by his
royal bearing, Odysseus who moved along the ranks like a ram she
marked out as the master of craft and deep counsel. Hearing her words,
Antenor bore his witness to their truth, for once Odysseus had come
with Menelaus to Troy on an embassy.

    "When they stood up Menelaus was taller, when they sat down Odysseus
    was more stately. But when they spake, Menelaus' words were fluent,
    clear but few; Odysseus when he spoke, fixed his eyes on the ground,
    turning his sceptre neither backwards nor forward, standing still
    like a man devoid of wit; one would have deemed him a churl and a very
    fool; yet when he sent forth his mighty voice from his breast in words
    as many as the snowflakes, no other man could compare with him."

Helen pointed out Ajax and Idomeneus and others, yet could not see her
two brothers, Castor and Pollux; either they had not come from her
home in Sparta, or they had refused to fight, fearing the shame and
reproach of her name. "So she spake, yet the life-giving earth covered
them there, even in Sparta, their native land."

When the news came to Priam of the combat arranged between Paris and
Menelaus, the old King shuddered for his son, yet he went out to
confirm the compact. Feeling he could not look upon the fight, he
returned to the city. Meanwhile Hector had cast lots to decide which
of the two should first hurl his spear. Paris failed to wound his
enemy, but Menelaus' dart pierced Paris' armour; he followed it up
with a blow of his sword which shivered to pieces in his hand. He then
caught Paris' helmet and dragged him off towards the Greek army; but
Aphrodite saved her favourite, for she loosed the chin-strap and bore
Paris back to Helen in Troy. Menelaus in vain looked for him among the
Trojans who were fain to see an end of him, "and would not have hidden
him if they had seen him". Agamemnon then declared his brother the
victor and demanded the fulfilment of the treaty.

Such an end to the siege did not content Hera, whose anger against the
Trojans was such that she could have "devoured raw Priam and his
sons". With Zeus' consent she sent down Pallas Athena to confound the
treaty. Descending like some brilliant and baleful star the goddess
assumed the shape of Laodocus and sought out the archer Pandarus. Him
she tempted to shoot privily at Menelaus to gain the favour of Paris.
While his companions held their shields in front of him the archer
launched a shaft at his victim, but Athena turned it aside so that it
merely grazed his body, drawing blood. Seeing his brother wounded
Agamemnon ran to him, to prophesy the certain doom of the treaty
breakers.

    "Not in vain did we shed the blood of compact and offer the pledges
    of a treaty. Though Zeus hath not fulfilled it now, yet he will at
    last and they will pay dear with their lives, they, their wives and
    children. Well I know in my heart that the day will come when sacred
    Troy will perish and Priam and his folk; Zeus himself throned on high
    dwelling in the clear sky will shake against them all his dark aegis
    in anger for this deceit."

While the leeches drew out the arrow from the wound, Agamemnon went
round the host with words of encouragement or chiding to stir them up
to the righteous conflict. They rushed on to battle to be met by the
Trojans whose host

    "knew not one voice or one speech; their language was mixed, for they
    were men called from many lands."

In the fight Diomedes, though at first wounded by Pandarus, speedily
returned refreshed and strengthened by Athena. His great deeds drew
upon him Pandarus and Aeneas, the son of Aphrodite and the future
founder of Rome's greatness. Diomedes quickly slew Pandarus and when
Aeneas bestrode his friend's body, hurled at him a mighty stone which
laid him low. Afraid of her son Aphrodite cast her arms about him and
shrouded him in her robe. Knowing that she was but a weak goddess
Diomedes attacked her, wounding her in the hand. Dropping her son, she
fled to Ares who was watching the battle and besought him to lend her
his chariot, wherein she fled back to Olympus. There her mother Dione
comforted her with the story of the woes which other gods had suffered
from mortals.

    "But this man hath been set upon thee by Athena. Foolish one, he
    knoweth not in his heart that no man liveth long who fighteth with
    the gods; no children lisp 'father' at his knees when he returneth
    from war and dread conflict. Therefore, albeit he is so mighty, let
    him take heed lest a better than thou meet him, for one day his
    prudent wife shall wail in her sleep awaking all her house, bereft
    of her lord, the best man of the Achaeans."

But Athena in irony deemed that Aphrodite had been scratched by some
Greek woman whom she caressed to tempt her to forsake her husband and
follow one of the Trojans she loved.

Aeneas when dropped by his mother had been picked up by Apollo; when
Diomedes attacked the god, he was warned that battle with an immortal
was not like man's warfare. Stirred by Apollo, Ares himself came to
the aid of the Trojans, inspiring Sarpedon the Lycian to hearten his
comrades, who were shortly gladdened by the return of Aeneas whom
Apollo had healed. At the sight of Ares and Apollo fighting for Troy
Hera and Athena came down to battle for the Greeks; they found
Diomedes on the skirts of the host, cooling the wound Pandarus had
inflicted. Entering his chariot by his side, Athena fired him to meet
Ares and drive him wounded back to Olympus, where he found but little
compassion from Zeus. The two goddesses then left the mortals to fight
it out.

At this moment Helenus, the prophetic brother of Hector, bade him go
to Troy to try to appease the anger of Athena by an offering, in the
hope that Diomedes' progress might be stayed. In his absence Diomedes
met in the battle Glaucus, a Lycian prince.

    "Who art thou?" he asked. "I have never seen thee before in battle,
    yet now thou hast gone far beyond all others in hardihood, for thou
    hast awaited my onset, and they are hapless whose sons meet my
    strength. If thou art a god, I will not fight with thee; but if thou
    art one of those who eat the fruit of the earth, come near, that
    thou mayest the quicker get thee to the gates of death."

In answer, Glaucus said:

    "Why askest thou my lineage? As is the life of leaves, so is that of
    men. The leaves are scattered some of them to the earth by the wind,
    others the wood putteth forth when it is in bloom, and they come on
    in the season of spring. Even so of men one generation groweth,
    another ceaseth."

He then told how he was a family friend of Diomedes and made with him
a compact that if they met in battle they should avoid each the other;
this they sealed by the exchange of armour, wherein the Greek had the
better, getting gold weapons for bronze, the worth of a hundred oxen
for the value of nine.

Coming to Troy Hector bade his mother offer Athena the finest robe she
had; yet all in vain, for the goddess rejected it. Passing to the
house of Paris, he found him polishing his armour, Helen at his side.
Again rebuking him, he had from him a promise that he would be ready
to re-enter the fight when Hector had been to his own house to see his
wife Andromache. Hector's heart foreboded that it was the last time he
would speak with her. She had with her their little son Astyanax.
Weeping she besought him to spare himself for her sake.

    "For me there will be no other comfort if thou meetest thy doom, but
    sorrow. Father and mother have I none, for Achilles hath slain them
    and my seven brothers. Hector, thou art my father and my lady mother
    and my brother and thou art my wedded husband. Nay, come, pity me and
    abide on the wall, lest thou make thy son an orphan and thy wife a
    widow."

He answered, his heart heavy with a sense of coming death:

    "The day will come when Troy shall fall, yet I grieve not for father
    or mother or brethren so much as for thee, when some Achaean leads
    thee captive, robbing thee of thy day of freedom. Thou shalt weave at
    the loom in Argos or perchance fetch water, for heavy necessity shall
    be laid upon thee. Then shall many a one say when he sees thee shedding
    tears: 'Lo, this is the wife of Hector who was the best warrior of the
    Trojans when they fought for their town.' Thus will they speak and thou
    shalt have new sorrow for lack of such a man to drive away the day of
    slavery."

He stretched out his arms to his little son who was affrighted at the
sight of the helmet as it nodded its plumes dreadfully from its tall
top. Hector and Andromache laughed when they saw the child's terror;
then Hector took off his helmet and prayed that the boy might grow to
a royal manhood and gladden his mother's heart. Smiling through her
tears, Andromache took the child from Hector, while he comforted her
with brave words.

    "Lady, grieve not overmuch, I beseech thee, for no man shall thrust me
    to death beyond my fate. Methinks none can avoid his destiny, be he
    brave or a coward, when once he hath been born. Nay, go to the house,
    ply thy tasks and bid the maids be busy, but war is the business of
    the men who are born in Troy and mine most of all."

Thus she parted from him, looking back many a time, shedding plenteous
tears. So did they mourn for Hector even before his doom, for they
said he would never escape his foes and come back in safety.

Finding Paris waiting for him, Hector passed out to the battlefield.
Aided by Glaucus he wrought great havoc, so much that Athena and
Apollo stirred him to challenge the bravest of the Greeks. The victor
was to take the spoils of the vanquished but to return the body for
burial. At first the Greeks were silent when they heard his challenge,
ashamed to decline it and afraid to take it up. At last eight of their
bravest cast lots, the choice falling upon Ajax. A great combat ended
in the somewhat doubtful victory of Ajax, the two parting in
friendship after an exchange of presents. The result of the fighting
had discouraged both sides; the Greeks accordingly decided to throw up
a mound in front of their ships, protected by a deep trench. This
tacit confession of weakness in the absence of Achilles leads up to
the heavy defeat which was to follow. On the other side the Trojans
held a council to deliver up Helen. When Paris refused to surrender
her but offered to restore her treasures, a deputation was sent to
inform the Greeks of his decision. The latter refused to accept either
Helen or the treasure, feeling that the end was not far off. That
night Zeus sent mighty thunderings to terrify the besiegers.

So far the main plot of the _Iliad_ has been undeveloped; now that the
chief characters on both sides have played a part in the war, the poem
begins to show how the wrath of Achilles works itself out under Zeus'
direction. First the king of the gods warned the deities that he would
allow none to intervene on either side and would punish any offender
with his thunders. Holding up the scales of doom, he placed in them
the lot of Trojans and of Greeks; as the latter sank down, he hurled
at their host his lightnings, driving all the warriors in flight to
the great mound they had built. For a time Teucer the archer brother
of Ajax held them back, but when he was smitten by a mighty stone
hurled of Hector all resistance was broken. A vain attempt was made by
Hera and Athena to help the Greeks, but the goddesses quailed before
the punishment wherewith Zeus threatened them. When night came the
Trojans encamped on the open plain, their camp-fires gleaming like the
stars which appear on some night of stillness.

Disheartened at his defeat, Agamemnon freely acknowledged his fault
and suggested flight homewards. Nestor advised him to call an Assembly
and depute some of the leading men to make up the quarrel with
Achilles. The King listened to him, offering to give Achilles his own
daughter in wedlock, together with cities and much spoil of war. Three
ambassadors were chosen, Phoenix, Ajax and Odysseus. Reaching
Achilles' tent, they found him singing lays of heroes, Patroclus his
friend by his side. When he saw the ambassadors, he gave them a
courtly welcome. Odysseus laid the King's proposals before him, to
which Achilles answered with dignity.

    "I hate as sore as the gates of Death a man who hideth one thing in
    his heart and sayeth its opposite. Do the sons of Atreus alone of
    men love their wives? Methinks all the wealth which Troy contained
    before the Greeks came upon it, yea all the wealth which Apollo holds
    in rocky Pytho, is not the worth of life itself. Cattle and horses
    and brazen ware can be got by plunder, but a man's life cannot be
    taken by spoil nor recovered when once it passeth the barrier of his
    teeth. Nay, go back to the elders and bid them find a better plan
    than this. Let Phoenix abide by me here that he may return with me
    to-morrow in my ships if he will, for I will not constrain him by
    force."

Phoenix had been Achilles' tutor. In terror for the safety of the
Greek fleet, he appealed to his friend to relent.

    "How can I be left alone here without thee, dear child? Thy father
    sent me to teach thee to be a speaker of words and a doer of deeds.
    In thy childhood I tended thee, for I knew that I should never have a
    son and I looked to thee to save me from ruin. Tame thy great spirit.
    Even the gods know how to change, whose honour is greater, and their
    power. Men in prayer turn them by sacrifice when any hath sinned and
    transgressed. For Prayers are the daughters of great Zeus; they are
    halt and wrinkled and their eyes look askance. Their task it is to go
    after Ruin; for Ruin is strong and sound of foot, wherefore she far
    outrunneth them all and getteth before them in harming men over all the
    world. But they come after; whosoever honoureth the daughters of Zeus
    when they come nigh, him they greatly benefit and hear his entreaties,
    but whoso denieth them and stubbornly refuseth, they go to Zeus and ask
    that Ruin may dog him, that he may be requited with mischief. Therefore,
    Achilles, bring it to pass that honour follow the daughters of Zeus,
    even that honour which bendeth the heart of others as noble as thou."

When this appeal also failed, Ajax, a man of deeds rather than words,
deemed it best to return at once, begging Achilles to bear them no
ill-will and to remember the rights of hospitality which protected
them from his resentment. When Achilles assured them of his regard for
them and maintained his quarrel with Agamemnon alone, they departed
and brought the heavy news to their anxious friends. On hearing it
Diomedes briefly bade them get ready for the battle and fight without
Achilles' help.

When the Trojan host had taken up its quarters on the plain, Nestor
suggested that the Greeks should send one of their number to find out
what Hector intended to do on the morrow. Diomedes offered to
undertake the office of a spy, selecting Odysseus as his comrade.
After a prayer to Athena to aid them, they went silently towards the
bivouac. It chanced that Hector too had thought of a similar plan and
that Dolon had offered to reconnoitre the Greek position. He was a
wealthy man, ill-favoured to look upon, but swift of foot, and had
asked that his reward should be the horses and the chariot of
Achilles.

Hearing the sound of Dolon's feet as he ran, Diomedes and Odysseus
parted to let him pass between them; then cutting off his retreat they
closed on him and captured him. They learned how the Trojan host was
quartered; at the extremity of it was Rhesus, the newly arrived
Thracian King, whose white horses were a marvel of beauty and
swiftness. In return for his information Dolon begged them to spare
his life, but Diomedes deemed it safer to slay him. The two Greeks
penetrated the Thracian encampment, where they slew many warriors and
escaped with the horses back to the Greek armament.

When the fighting opened on the next day, Agamemnon distinguished
himself by deeds of great bravery, but retired at length wounded in
the hand. Zeus had warned Hector to wait for that very moment before
pushing home his attack. One after another the Greek leaders were
wounded, Diomedes, Odysseus, Machaon; Ajax alone held up the Trojan
onset, retiring slowly and stubbornly towards the sea. Achilles,
seeing the return of the wounded warrior Machaon, sent his friend
Patroclus to find out who he was. Nestor meeting Patroclus, told him
of the rout of the army, and advised him to beg Achilles at least to
allow the Myrmidons to sally forth under Patroclus' leadership, if he
would not fight in person. The importance of this episode is
emphasised in the poem. The dispatch of Patroclus is called "the
beginning of his undoing", it foreshadows the intervention which was
later to bring Achilles himself back into the conflict.

The Trojan host after an attempt to drive their horses over the trench
stormed it in five bodies. As they streamed towards the wall, an omen
of a doubtful nature filled Polydamas with some misgivings about the
wisdom of bursting through to the sea. It was possible that they might
be routed and that they would accordingly be caught in a trap, leaving
many of their dead behind them. His advice to remain content with the
success they had won roused the anger of Hector, whose headstrong
character is well portrayed in his speech.

    "Thou biddest me consider long-winged birds, whereof I reck not nor
    care for them whether they speed to right or left. Let us obey the
    counsel of Zeus. One omen is the best, to fight for our country. Why
    dost thou dread war and tumult? Even if all we others were slain at
    the ships, there is no fear that thou wilt perish, for thy heart
    cannot withstand the foe and is not warlike. But if thou holdest from
    the fight or turnest another from war, straightway shalt thou lose
    thy life under the blow of my spear."

Thus encouraged the army pressed forward, the walls being pierced by
the Lycian King Sarpedon, a son of Zeus. Taking up a mighty stone,
Hector broke open the gate and led his men forward to the final
onslaught on the ships.

For a brief space Zeus turned his eyes away from the conflict and
Poseidon used the opportunity to help the Greeks. Idomeneus the Cretan
and his henchman Meriones greatly distinguished themselves, the former
drawing a very vivid picture of the brave man.

    "I know what courage is. Would that all the bravest of us were being
    chosen for an ambush, wherein a man's bravery is most manifest. In
    it the coward and the courageous man chiefliest appear. The colour of
    the one changeth and his spirit cannot be schooled to remain stedfast,
    but he shifteth his body, settling now on this foot now on that; his
    heart beateth mightily, knocking against his breast as he bodeth death,
    and his teeth chatter. But the good man's colour changeth not, nor is
    he overmuch afraid when once he sitteth in his place of ambush; rather
    he prayeth to join speedily in the dolorous battle."

Yet soon Idomeneus' strength left him; Hector hurried to the centre of
the attack, where he confronted Ajax.

At this point Hera determined to prolong the intervention of Poseidon
in favour of the Greeks. She persuaded Aphrodite to lend her all her
spells of beauty on the pretence that she wished to reconcile Ocean to
his wife Tethys. Armed with the goddess' girdle, she lulled Zeus to
sleep and then sent a message to Poseidon to give the Greeks his
heartiest assistance. Inspired by him the fugitives turned on their
pursuers; when Ajax smote down Hector with a stone the Trojans were
hurled in flight back through the gate and across the ramparts.

When Zeus awakened out of slumber and saw the rout of the Trojans, his
first impulse was to punish Hera for her deceit. He then restored the
situation, bidding Poseidon retire and sending Apollo to recover
Hector of his wound. The tide speedily turned again; the Trojans
rushed through the rampart and down to the outer line of the Greek
ships, where they found nobody to resist them except the giant Ajax
and his brother Teucer. After a desperate fight in which Ajax
single-handed saved the fleet, Hector succeeded in grasping the ship
of Protesilaus and called loud for fire. This was the greatest measure
of success vouchsafed him; from this point onwards the balance was
redressed in favour of the Greeks.

Achilles had been watching the anguish of Patroclus' spirit when this
disaster came upon their friends.

    "Why weepest thou, Patroclus, like some prattling little child who
    runneth to her mother and biddeth her take her up, catching at her
    garment and checking her movement and gazing at her tearfully till
    she lifteth her? Even so thou lettest fall the big tears."

Patroclus begged his friend to allow him to wear his armour and lead
the Myrmidons out to battle, not knowing that he was entreating for
his own ruin and death. After some reluctance Achilles gave him leave,
yet with the strictest orders not to pursue too far. Fresh and eager
for the battle the Myrmidons drove the Trojans back into the plain.
Patroclus' course was challenged by the Lycians, whose King Sarpedon
faced him in single combat. In great sorrow Zeus watched his son
Sarpedon go to his doom; in his agony he shed tear-drops of blood and
ordered Death and Sleep to carry the body back to Lycia for burial.

The great glory Patroclus had won tempted him to forget his promise to
Achilles. He pursued the Trojans back to the walls of the town,
slaying Cebriones the charioteer of Hector. In the fight which took
place over the body Patroclus was assailed by Hector and Euphorbus
under the guidance of Apollo. Hector administered the death-blow;
before he died Patroclus foretold a speedy vengeance to come from
Achilles.

A mighty struggle arose over his body. Menelaus slew Euphorbus, but
retreated at the approach of Hector, who seized the armour of Achilles
and put it on. A thick cloud settled over the combatants, heightening
the dread of battle. The gods came down to encourage their respective
warriors; the Greeks were thrust back over the plain, but the bravery
of Ajax and Menelaus enabled the latter to save Patroclus' body and
carry it from the dust of battle towards the ships.

When the news of his friend's death came to Achilles his grief was so
mighty that it seemed likely that he would have slain himself. He
burst into a lamentation so bitter that his mother heard him in her
sea-cave and came forth to learn what new sorrow had taken him. Too
late he learned the hard lesson that revenge may be sweet but is
always bought at the cost of some far greater thing.

    "I could not bring salvation to Patroclus or my men, but sit at the
    ships a useless burden upon the land, albeit I am such a man as no
    other in war, though others excel me in speech. Perish strife from
    among men and gods, and anger which inciteth even a prudent man to
    take offence; far sweeter than dropping honey it groweth in a man's
    heart like smoke, even now as Agamemnon hath roused me to a fury."

Being robbed of his armour he could not sally out to convey his
companion's body into the camp. Hera therefore sent Iris to him
bidding him merely show himself at the trenches and cry aloud. At the
sound of his thrice-repeated cry the Trojans shrank back in terror,
leaving the Greeks to carry in Patroclus' body unmolested; then Hera
bade the sun set at once into the ocean to end the great day of
battle.

Polydamas knew well what the appearance of Achilles portended to the
Trojans, for he was the one man among them who could look both before
and after; his advice was that they should retire into the town and
there shut themselves up. It was received with scorn by Hector. In the
Greek camp Achilles burst into a wild lament over Patroclus, swearing
that he would not bury him before he had brought in Hector dead and
twelve living captives to sacrifice before the pyre. That night his
mother went to Hephaestus and persuaded him to make divine armour for
her son, which the poet describes in detail.

On receiving the armour from his mother Achilles made haste to
reconcile himself with Agamemnon. His impatience for revenge and the
oath he had taken made it impossible for him to take any food. His
strength was maintained by Athena who supplied him with nectar. On
issuing forth to the fight he addressed his two horses:

    "Xanthus and Balius, bethink you how ye may save your charioteer
    when he hath done with the battle, and desert him not in death as
    ye did Patroclus."

In reply they prophesied his coming end.

    "For this we are not to blame, but the mighty god--and violent Fate.
    We can run quick as the breath of the North wind, who men say is
    the swiftest of all, but thy fate it is to die by the might of a
    god and a man."

The Avenging Spirits forbade them to reveal more. The awe of the
climax of the poem is heightened by supernatural interventions. At
last the gods themselves received permission from Zeus to enter the
fray. They took sides, the shock of their meeting causing the nether
deity to start from his throne in fear that his realm should collapse
about him. Achilles met Aeneas and would have slain him had not
Poseidon saved him. Hector withdrew before him, warned by Apollo not
to meet him face to face. Disregarding the god's advice he attacked
Achilles, but for the moment was spirited away. Disappointed of his
prey Achilles sowed havoc among the lesser Trojans.

Choked by the numerous corpses the River-God Scamander begged him
cease his work of destruction. When the Hero disregarded him, he
assembled all his waters and would have overwhelmed him but for Athena
who gave him power to resist; the river was checked by the Fire-God
who dried up his streams. The gods then plunged into strife, the sight
whereof made Zeus laugh in joy. Athena quickly routed Aphrodite and
Hera Artemis. Apollo deemed it worthless to fight Poseidon.

    "Thou wouldst not call me prudent were I to strive with thee for
    cowering mortals, who like leaves sometimes are full of fire, then
    again waste away spiritless. Let us make an end of our quarrel;
    let men fight it out themselves."

Deserted by their protectors the Trojans broke before Achilles, who
nearly took the town.

Baulked a second time of his vengeance by Apollo, Achilles vowed he
would have punished the god had he the power. Hector had at last
decided to face his foe at the Scaean Gate. His father and his mother
pleaded with him in a frenzy of grief to enter the town, but the dread
of Polydamas' reproaches fixed his resolve. When Achilles came rushing
towards him, his heart failed; he ran three times round the walls of
the city. Meanwhile the gods held up the scales of doom; when his life
sank down to death Apollo left him for ever.

Athena then took the shape of Deiphobus, encouraging him to face
Achilles. Seeing unexpectedly a friend, he turned and stood his
ground, for she had already warned Achilles of her plot. Hector
launched his spear which sped true, but failed to penetrate the divine
armour. When he found no Deiphobus at his side to give him another
weapon, he knew his end had come. Drawing himself up for a final
effort, he darted at Achilles; the latter spied a gap in the armour he
had once worn, through which he smote Hector mortally. Lying in
approaching death, the Trojan begged that his body might be honoured
with a burial, but Achilles swore he should never have it, rather the
dogs and carrion birds should devour his flesh. Seeing their great foe
dead the Greeks flocked around him, not one passing by him without
stabbing his body. Achilles bored through his ankles and attached him
to his car; then whipping up his horses, he drove full speed to the
camp, dragging Hector in disgrace over the plain. This scene of pure
savagery is succeeded by the laments of Priam, Hecuba and Andromache
over him whom Zeus allowed to be outraged in his own land.

That night the shade of Patroclus visited Achilles, bidding him bury
him speedily that he might cross the gates of death; the dust of his
ashes was to be stored up in an urn and mixed with Achilles' own when
his turn came to die. After the funeral Achilles held games of great
splendour in which the leading athletes contended for the prizes he
offered.

Yet nothing could make up for the loss of his friend. Every day he
dragged Hector's body round Patroclus' tomb, but Apollo in pity for
the dead man kept away corruption, maintaining the body in all its
beauty of manhood. At last on the twelfth day Apollo appealed to the
gods to end the barbarous outrage.

    "Hath not Hector offered to you many a sacrifice of bulls and
    goats? Yet ye countenance the deeds of Achilles, who hath forsaken
    all pity which doth harm to men and bringeth a blessing too. Many
    another is like to lose a friend, but he will weep and let his
    foe's body go, for the Fates have given men an heart to endure.
    Good man though he be, let Achilles take heed lest he move us to
    indignation by outraging in fury senseless clay."

Zeus sent to fetch Thetis whom he bade persuade her son to ransom the
body; meanwhile Iris went to Troy to tell Priam to take a ransom and
go to the ships without fear, for the convoy who should guide him
would save him from harm.

On hearing of Priam's resolve Hecuba tried to dissuade him, but the
old King would not be turned. That night he went forth alone; he was
met in the plain by Hermes, disguised as a servant of Achilles, who
conducted him to the hut where Hector lay. Slipping in unseen, Priam
caught Achilles' knees and kissed the dread hands that had slain his
son. In pity for the aged King Achilles remembered his own father,
left as defenceless as Priam. Calling out his servants he bade them
wash the corpse outside, lest Priam at the sight of it should upbraid
him and thus provoke him to slay him and offend against the commands
of Zeus. As they supped, Priam marvelled at the stature and beauty of
Achilles and Achilles wondered at Priam's reverend form and his words.
While Achilles slept, Hermes came to Priam to warn him of his danger
if he were found in the Greek host. Hastily harnessing the chariot, he
led him back safely to Troy, where the body was laid upon a bed in
Hector's palace.

The laments which follow are of great beauty. Andromache bewailed her
widowhood, Hecuba her dearest son; Helen's lament is a masterpiece.

    "Hector, far the dearest to me of all my brethren, of a truth Paris
    is my lord, who brought me hither--would I had died first. This is
    the tenth year since I left my native land, yet have I never heard
    from thee a word cruel or despiteful; rather, if any other chode me,
    thy sister or a brother's wife or thy mother--though thy father is
    gentle to me always as he were my own sire--thou didst restrain such
    with words of persuasion and kindness and gentleness all thine own.
    Wherefore I grieve for thee and for myself in anguish, for there is
    no other friend in broad Troy kind and tender, but all shudder at me."

Then with many a tear they laid to his rest mighty Hector.

Such is the _Iliad_. To modern readers it very often seems a little
dull. Horace long ago pointed out that it is inevitable that a long
poem should flag; even Homer nods sometimes. Some of the episodes are
distinctly wearisome, for they are invented to give a place in this
national Epic to lesser heroes who could hardly be mentioned if
Achilles were always in the foreground. Achilles himself is not a
pleasing person; his character is wayward and violent; he is sometimes
childish, always liable to be carried away by a fit of pettishness and
unable to retain our real respect; further, a hero who is practically
invulnerable and yet dons divine armour to attack those who are no
match for him when he is without it falls below the ordinary
"sportsman's" level. Nor can we feel much reverence for many of the
gods; Hera is odious, Athena guilty of flat treachery, Zeus, liable to
allow his good nature to overcome his judgment--Apollo alone seems
consistently noble. More, we shall look in vain in the _Iliad_ for any
sign of the pure battle-joy which is so characteristic of northern
Epic poetry; the Greek ideal of bravery had nothing of the Berserker
in it. Perhaps these are the reasons why the sympathy of nearly all
readers is with the Trojans, who are numerically inferior, are aided
by fewer and weaker gods and have less mighty champions to defend
them.

What then is left to admire in the _Iliad_? It is well to remember
that the poem is not the first but the last of a long series; its very
perfection of form and language makes it certain that it is the result
of a long literary tradition. As such, it has one or two remarkable
features. We shall not find in many other Epics that sense of wistful
sorrow for man's brief and uncertain life which is the finest breath
of all poetry that seeks to touch the human heart. The marks of rude
or crude workmanship which disfigure much Epic have nearly all
disappeared from the _Iliad_. The characterisation of many of the
figures of the poem is masterly, their very natures being hit off in a
few lines--and it is important to remember that it is not really the
business of Epic to attempt analysis of character at all except very
briefly; the story cannot be kept waiting. But the real Homeric power
is displayed in the famous scenes of pure and worthy pathos such as
the parting of Andromache from Hector and the laments over his body.
Those who would learn how to touch great depths of sorrow and remain
dignified must see how it has been treated in the _Iliad_.

A few vigorous lines hit off the plan of the _Odyssey_.

    "Sing, Muse, of the man of much wandering who travelled right far
    after sacking sacred Troy, and saw the cities of many men and knew
    their ways. Many a sorrow he suffered on the sea, trying to win a
    return home for himself and his comrades; yet he could not for all
    his longing, for they died like fools through their own blindness."

Odysseus, when the poem opens, was in Calypso's isle pitied of all the
gods save Poseidon. In a council Zeus gave his consent that Hermes
should go to Calypso, while Athena should descend to Ithaca to
encourage Odysseus' son Telemachus to seek out news of his father.

Taking the form of Mentes, Athena met Telemachus and informed him that
his father was not yet dead. Seeing the suitors who were wooing his
mother Penelope and eating up the house in riot, she advised him to
dismiss them and visit Nestor in Pylos. A lay sung by Phemius brought
Penelope from her chamber, who was astonished at the immediate change
which her son's speech showed had come upon him, transforming him to
manhood.

Next day Telemachus called an Assembly of the Ithacans; his appeal to
the suitors to leave him in peace provoked an insulting speech from
their ringleader Antinous who held Penelope to blame for their
presence; she had constantly eluded them, on one occasion promising to
marry when she had woven a shroud for Laertes her father-in-law; the
work she did by day she undid at night, till she was betrayed by a
serving-woman. Telemachus then asked the suitors for a ship to get
news of his father. When the assembly broke up, Athena appeared in
answer to Telemachus' prayer in the form of Mentor and pledged herself
to go with him on his travels. She prepared a ship and got together a
crew, while Telemachus bade his old nurse Eurycleia conceal from his
mother his departure.

In Pylos Nestor told him all he knew of Odysseus, describing the
sorrows which came upon the Greek leaders on their return and
especially the evil end of Agamemnon. He added that Menelaus had just
returned to Sparta and was far more likely to know the truth than any
other, for he had wandered widely over the seas on his home-coming.
Bidding Nestor look after Telemachus, Athena vanished from his sight,
but not before she was recognised by the old hero. On the morrow
Telemachus set out for Sparta, accompanied by Pisistratus, one of
Nestor's sons.

Menelaus gave them a kindly welcome and a casual mention of his
father's name stirred Telemachus to tears. At that moment Helen
entered; her quicker perception at once traced the resemblance between
the young stranger and Odysseus. When Telemachus admitted his
identity, Helen told some of his father's deeds. Once he entered Troy
disguised as a beggar, unrecognised of all save Helen herself. "After
he made her swear an oath that she would not betray him, he revealed
all the plans of the Greeks. Then, after slaying many Trojans, he
departed with much knowledge, while Helen's heart rejoiced, for she
was already bent on a return home, repenting of the blindness which
Aphrodite had sent her in persuading her to abandon home and daughter
and a husband who lacked naught, neither wit not manhood." Menelaus
then recounted how Odysseus saved him when they were in the wooden
horse, when one false sound would have betrayed them. On the next
morning Telemachus told the story of the ruin of his home; Menelaus
prophesied the end of the suitors, then preceded to recount how in
Egypt he waylaid and captured Proteus, the changing god of the sea,
whom he compelled to relate the fate of the Greek leaders and to
prophesy his own return; from him he heard that Odysseus was with
Calypso who kept him by force. On learning this important piece of
news Telemachus was eager to return to Ithaca with all speed.

Meanwhile the suitors had learned of the departure of Telemachus and
plotted to intercept him on his return. Their treachery was told to
Penelope, who was utterly undone on hearing it; feeling herself left
without a human protector she prayed to Athena, who appeared to her in
a dream in the likeness of her own sister to assure her that Athena
was watching over her, but refusing to say definitely whether Odysseus
was alive.

The poem at this point takes up the story of Odysseus himself. Going
to the isle where he was held captive, Hermes after admiring its great
beauty delivered Zeus' message to Calypso to let the captive go. She
reproached the gods for their jealousy and reluctantly promised to
obey. She found Odysseus on the shore, eating out his heart in the
desire for his home. When she informed him that she intended to let
him go, he first with commendable prudence made her swear that she did
not design some greater evil for him. Smiling at his cunning, she
swore the most solemn of all oaths to help him, then supplied tools
and materials for the building of his boat. When he was out on the
deep, Poseidon wrecked his craft, but a sea goddess Leucothea, once a
mortal, gave him a scarf to wrap round him, bidding him cast it from
him with his back turned away when he got to land. After two nights
and two days on the deep he at length saw land. Finding the mouth of a
small stream, he swam up it, then utterly weary flung himself down on
a heap of leaves under a bush, guarded by Athena.

The next episode introduces one of the most charming figures in
ancient literature. Nausicaa was the daughter of Alcinous, King of
Phaeacia, on whose island Odysseus had landed. To her Athena appeared
in a dream, bidding her obtain from her father leave to go down to the
sea to wash his soiled garments. The young girl obeyed, telling her
father that it was but seemly that he, the first man in the kingdom,
should appear at council in raiment white as snow. He gave her the
leave she desired. After their work was done, she and her handmaids
began a game of ball; their merry cries woke up Odysseus, who started
up on hearing human voices. Coming forward, he frightened by his
appearance the handmaids, but Nausicaa, emboldened by Athena, stood
still and listened to his story. She supplied him with clean garments
after she had given him food and drink. On the homeward journey
Nausicaa bade Odysseus bethink him of the inconvenient talk which his
presence would occasion if he were seen with her near the city. She
therefore judged it best that she should enter first, at the same time
she gave him full information of the road to the palace; when he
entered it he was to proceed straight to the Queen Arete, whose favour
was indispensable if he desired a return home.

Just outside the city Athena met him in the guise of a girl to tell
him his way; she further cast about him a thick cloud to protect him
from curious eyes. Passing through the King's gardens, which were a
marvel of beauty and fruitfulness, Odysseus entered the palace and
threw his arms in supplication about Arete's knees. She listened
kindly to him and begged Alcinous give him welcome. When all the
courtiers had retired to rest, Arete, noticing that the garments
Odysseus wore had been woven by her own hands, asked him whence he had
them and how he had come to the island. On hearing the story of his
shipwreck Alcinous promised him a safe convoy to his home on the
morrow.

At an assembly Alcinous consulted with his counsellors about Odysseus;
all agreed to help in providing him with a ship and rowers. At a trial
of skill Odysseus, after being taunted by some of the Phaeacians,
hurled the quoit beyond them all. Later, a song of the wooden horse of
Troy moved him to tears; though unnoticed by the others, he did not
escape the eye of Alcinous who bade him tell them plainly who he was.
Then he revealed himself and told the marvellous story of his
wanderings.

First he and his companions reached the land of the Lotus-eaters.
Finding out that the lotus made all who ate it lose their desire for
home, Odysseus sailed away with all speed, forcing away some who had
tasted the plant. Thence they reached the island of the Cyclopes, a
wild race who knew no ordinances; each living in his cave was a law to
himself, caring nothing for the others. Leaving his twelve ships,
Odysseus proceeded with some of his men to the cave of one of the
Cyclopes, a son of Poseidon, taking with him a skin of wine. When the
one-eyed monster returned with his flock of sheep, he shut the mouth
of the cave with a mighty stone which no mortal could move; then
lighting a fire he caught sight of his visitors and asked who they
were. Odysseus answered craftily, whereupon the monster devoured six
of his company. Odysseus opened his wine-skin and offered some of the
wine; when the Cyclops asked his name, Odysseus told him he was called
Noman; in return for his kindness in offering him the strangely sweet
drink the Cyclops promised to eat him last of all. But the wine soon
plunged the monster into a slumber, from which he was awakened by the
burning end of a great stake which Odysseus thrust into his eye. On
hearing his cries of agony the other Cyclopes came to him, but went
away when they heard that Noman was killing him. As it was impossible
for anyone but the Cyclops to open the cave, Odysseus tied his men
beneath the cattle, putting the beast which carried a man between two
which were unburdened; he himself hung on to the ram. As the animals
passed out, the Cyclops was a little surprised that the ram went last,
but thought he did so out of grief for his master. When they were all
safely outside, Odysseus freed his friends and made haste to get to
the ship. Thrusting out, when he was at what seemed a safe distance he
shouted to the Cyclops, who then remembered an old prophecy and hurled
a huge rock which nearly washed them back; a second rock which he
hurled on learning Odysseus' real name narrowly missed the ship. Then
the Cyclops prayed to Poseidon to punish Odysseus; the god heard him,
persecuting him from that time onward. Reassembling his ships,
Odysseus proceeded on his voyage.

He next called at the isle of Aeolus, king of the winds, who gave him
in a bag all the winds but one, a favouring breeze which was to waft
him to his own island. For nine days Odysseus guarded his bag, but at
last, when Ithaca was in sight, he sank into a sleep of exhaustion.
Thinking that the bag concealed some treasure, his men opened it, only
to be blown back to Aeolus who bid him begone as an evil man when he
begged aid a second time.

After visiting the Laestrygones, a man-eating people, who devoured all
the fleet except one ship's company, the remainder reached Aeaea, the
island where lived the dread goddess Circe. Odysseus sent forward
Eurylochus with some twenty companions who found Circe weaving at a
loom. Seeing them she invited them within; then after giving them a
charmed potion she smote them with her rod, turning them into swine.
Eurylochus who had suspected some trickery hurried back to Odysseus
with the news. The latter determined to go alone to save his friends.
On the way he was met by Hermes, who showed him the herb moly, an
antidote to Circe's draught. Finding that her magic failed, she at
once knew that her visitor was Odysseus whose visit had been
prophesied to her by Hermes. He bound her down by a solemn oath to
refrain from further mischief and persuaded her to restore to his men
their humanity. When Odysseus desired to depart home, she told him of
the wanderings that awaited him. First he must go to the land of the
dead to consult the shade of Teiresias, the blind old prophet, who
would help him.

Following the goddess' instructions, they sailed to the land of the
Cimmerians on the confines of the earth. There Odysseus dug a trench
into which he poured the blood of slain victims which he did not allow
the dead spirits to touch till Teiresias appeared. The seer told him
of the sorrows that awaited him and vaguely indicated that his death
should come upon him from the sea; he added that any spirit he allowed
to touch the blood would tell him truly all whereof he was as yet
ignorant, and that those ghosts he drove away would return to the
darkness.

First arose the spirit of his dead mother Anticleia who told him that
his wife and son were yet alive and his father was living away from
the town in wretchedness.

    "For me, it was not the visitation of Apollo that took me, nor any
    sickness whose corruption drove the life from my frame; rather it
    was longing for thee and thy counsels and thy gentleness which
    spoiled me of my spirit."

Thrice he tried to embrace her, and thrice the ghost eluded him, for
it was "as a dream that had fled away from the white frame of the
body". A procession of famous women followed, then came the wraith of
Agamemnon who told how he had been foully slain by his own wife, as
faithless as Penelope was prudent. Achilles next approached; when
Odysseus tried to console him for his early death by reminding him of
the honour he had when he was alive, he answered:

    "Speak not comfortingly of death; I would rather be a clown and a
    thrall on earth to another man than rule among the departed."

On hearing that his son Neoptolemus had won great glory in the capture
of Troy, the spirit left him, exulting with joy that his son was
worthy of him. Ajax turned from Odysseus in anger at the loss of
Achilles' armour for the possession of which they had striven. The
last figure that came was the ghost of Heracles, though the hero
himself was with the gods in Olympus.

    "Round him was the whirr of the dead as of birds fleeing in panic.
    Like to black night, with his bow ready and an arrow on the string,
    he glared about him terribly, as ever intending to shoot. Over his
    breast was flung a fearful belt, whereon were graven bears and lions
    and fights, battles, murders and man-slayings."

He recognised Odysseus before he passed back to death; when a crowd of
terrifying apparitions came thronging to the trench, Odysseus fled to
his ship lest the Gorgon might be sent from the awful Queen of the
dead.

Returning to Circe, he learned from her of the remaining dangers. The
first of these was the island of the Sirens, who by the marvellous
sweetness of their song charmed to their ruin all who passed. Odysseus
filled the ears of his crews with wax, bidding them to tie him to the
mast of his ship and to row hard past the temptresses in spite of his
strugglings. They then entered the dangerous strait, on one side of
which was Scylla, a dreadful monster who lived in a cave near by, on
the other was the deadly whirlpool of Charybdis. Scylla carried off
six of his men who called in vain to Odysseus to save them, stretching
out their hands to him in their last agony. From the strait they
passed to the island of Trinacria, where they found grazing the cattle
of the Sun. Odysseus had learned from both Teiresias and Circe that an
evil doom would come upon them if they touched the animals; he
therefore made his companions swear a great oath not to touch them if
they landed. For a whole month they were wind-bound in the island and
ate all the provisions which Circe had given them. At a time when
Odysseus had gone to explore the island Eurylochus persuaded his men
to kill and eat; as he returned Odysseus smelled the savour of their
feast and knew that destruction was at hand. For nine days the
feasting continued. When the ship put out to sea Zeus, in answer to
the prayer of the offended Sun-God, sent a storm which drowned all the
crew and drove Odysseus back to the dreaded strait. Escaping through
it with difficulty, he drifted helplessly over the deep and on the
tenth day landed on the island of "the dread goddess who used human
speech", Calypso, who tended him and kept him in captivity.

On the next day the Phaeacians loaded Odysseus with presents and
landed him on his own island while he slept. Poseidon in anger at the
arrival of the hero changed the returning Phaeacian ship into stone
when it was almost within the harbour of the city. When Odysseus awoke
he failed to recognise his own land. Athena appeared to him disguised
as a shepherd, telling him he was indeed in Ithaca:

    "Thou art witless or art come from afar, if thou enquirest about
    this land. It is not utterly unknown; many know it who dwell in the
    East and in the West. It is rough and unfitted for steeds, yet it is
    not a sorry isle, though narrow. It hath plenteous store of corn and
    the vine groweth herein. It hath alway rain and glistening dew. It
    nourisheth goats and cattle and all kinds of woods and its streams
    are everlasting."

Such is the description of the land for which Odysseus forsook
Calypso's offer of immortality. After smiling at Odysseus' pretence
that he was a Cretan Athena counselled him how to slay the suitors and
hurried to fetch Telemachus from Sparta. The poet tells why Athena
loved Odysseus more than all others.

    "Crafty would he be and a cunning trickster who surpassed thee in
    wiles, though it were a god who challenged thee. 