 first say you forgive me,
as Rob does.'

'Always that, mein Sohn, seventy time seven, if needs be, else I am
not worthy the name you give me. The punishment has come; I can
give no greater. Let it not be in vain. It will not with the help of the
mother and the All Father. Room here for both, always!'

The good Professor opened his arms and embraced his boys like a
true German, not ashamed to express by gesture or by word the
fatherly emotions an American would have compressed into a slap
on the shoulder and a brief 'All right'.

Mrs Jo sat and enjoyed the prospect like a romantic soul as she
was, and then they had a quiet talk together, saying freely all that
was in their hearts, and finding much comfort in the confidence
which comes when love casts out fear. It was agreed that nothing
be said except to Nan, who was to be thanked and rewarded for her
courage, discretion, and fidelity.

'I always knew that girl had the making of a fine woman in her,
and this proves it. No panics and shrieks and faintings and fuss,
but calm sense and energetic skill. Dear child, what can I give or
do to show my gratitude?' said Mrs Jo enthusiastically.

'Make Tom clear out and leave her in peace,' suggested Ted,
almost himself again, though a pensive haze still partially obscured
his native gaiety.

'Yes, do! he frets her like a mosquito. She forbade him to come out
here while she stayed, and packed him off with Demi. I like old
Tom, but he is a regular noodle about Nan,' added Rob, as he went
away to help his father with the accumulated letters.

'I'll do it!' said Mrs Jo decidedly. 'That girl's career shall nor be
hampered by a foolish boy's fancy. In a moment of weariness she
may give in, and then it's all over. Wiser women have done so and
regretted it all their lives. Nan shall earn her place first, and prove
that she can fill it; then she may marry if she likes, and can find a
man worthy of her.'

But Mrs Jo's help was not needed; for love and gratitude can work
miracles, and when youth, beauty, accident, and photography are
added, success is sure; as was proved in the case of the
unsuspecting but too susceptible Thomas.

Chapter 8 JOSIE PLAYS MERMAID

While the young Bhaers were having serious experiences at home,
Josie was enjoying herself immensely at Rocky Nook; for the
Laurences knew how to make summer idleness both charming and
wholesome. Bess was very fond of her little cousin; Mrs Amy felt
that whether her niece was an actress or not she must be a
gentlewoman, and gave her the social training which marks the
well-bred woman everywhere; while Uncle Laurie was never
happier than when rowing, riding, playing, or lounging with two
gay girls beside him. Josie bloomed like a wild flower in this free
life, Bess grew rosy, brisk, and merry, and both were great
favourites with the neighbours, whose villas were by the shore or
perched on the cliffs along the pretty bay.

One crumpled rose-leaf disturbed Josie's peace, one baffled wish
filled her with a longing which became a mania, and kept her as
restless and watchful as a detective with a case to 'work up'. Miss
Cameron, the great actress, had hired one of the villas and retired
thither to rest and 'create' a new part for next season. She saw no
one but a friend or two, had a private beach, and was invisible
except during her daily drive, or when the opera-glasses of curious
gazers were fixed on a blue figure disporting itself in the sea. The
Lau rences knew her, but respected her privacy, and after a call left
her in peace till she expressed a wish for society   a courtesy which
she remembered and repaid later, as we shall see.

But Josie was like a thirsty fly buzzing about a sealed honey-pot,
for this nearness to her idol was both delightful and maddening.
She pined to see, hear, talk with, and study this great and happy
woman who could thrill thousands by her art, and win friends by
her virtue, benevolence, and beauty. This was the sort of actress
the girl meant to be, and few could object if the gift was really
hers; for the stage needs just such women to purify and elevate the
profession which should teach as well as amuse. If kindly Miss
Cameron had known what passionate love and longing burned in
the bosom of the little girl whom she idly observed skipping over
the rocks, splashing about the beach, or galloping past her gate on
a Shetland pony, she would have made her happy by a look or a
word. But being tired with her winter's work and busy with her
new part, the lady took no more notice of this young neighbour
than of the sea-gulls in the bay or the daisies dancing in the fields.
Nosegays left on her doorstep, serenades under her garden-wall,
and the fixed stare of admiring eyes were such familiar things that
she scarcely minded them; and Josie grew desperate when all her
little attempts failed.

'I might climb that pine-tree and tumble off on her piazza roof, or
get Sheltie to throw me just at her gate and be taken in fainting. It's
no use to try to drown myself when she is bathing. I can't sink, and
she'd only send a man to pull me out. What can I do? I will see her
and tell her my hopes and make her say I can act some day.
Mamma would believe her; and if   oh, if she only would let me
study with her, what perfect joy that would be!'

Josie made these remarks one afternoon as she and Bess prepared
for a swim, a fishing party having prevented their morning bathe.

'You must bide your time, dear, and not be so impatient. Papa
promised to give you a chance before the season is over, and he
always manages things nicely. That will be better than any queer
prank of yours,' answered Bess, tying her pretty hair in a white net
to match her suit, while Josie made a little lobster of herself in
scarlet.

'I hate to wait; but I suppose I must. Hope she will bathe this
afternoon, though it is low tide. She told Uncle she should have to
go in then because in the morning people stared so and went on
her beach. Come and have a good dive from the big rock. No one
round but nurses and babies, so we can romp and splash as much
as we like.'

Away they went to have a fine time; for the little bay was free
from other bathers, and the babies greatly admired their aquatic
gymnastics, both being expert swimmers.

As they sat dripping on the big rock Josie suddenly gave a clutch
that nearly sent Bess overboard, as she cried excitedly:

'There she is! Look! coming to bathe. How splendid! Oh, if she
only would drown a little and let me save her! or even get her toe
nipped by a crab; anything so I could go and speak!'

'Don't seem to look; she comes to be quiet and enjoy herself.
Pretend we don't see her, that's only civil,' answered Bess, affecting
to be absorbed in a white-winged yacht going by.

'Let's carelessly float that way as if going for seaweed on the rocks.
She can't mind if we are flat on our backs, with only our noses out.
Then when we can't help seeing her, we'll swim back as if anxious
to retire. That will impress her, and she may call to thank the very
polite young ladies who respect her wishes,' proposed Josie, whose
lively fancy was always planning dramatic situations.

Just as they were going to slip from their rock, as if Fate relented
at last, Miss Cameron was seen to beckon wildly as she stood
waist-deep in the water, looking down. She called to her maid,
who seemed searching along the beach for something, and not
finding what she sought, waved a towel towards the girls as if
summoning them to help her.

'Run, fly! she wants us, she wants us!' cried Josie, tumbling into
the water like a very energetic turtle, and swimming away in her
best style towards this long desired haven of joy. Bess followed
more slowly, and both came panting and smiling up to Miss
Cameron, who never lifted her eyes, but said in that wonderful
voice of hers:

'I've dropped a bracelet. I see it, but can't get it. Will the little boy
find me a long stick? I'll keep my eye on it, so the water shall not
wash it away.'

'I'll dive for it with pleasure; but I'm not a boy,' answered Josie,
laughing as she shook the curly head which at a distance had
deceived the lady.

'I beg your pardon. Dive away, child; the sand is covering it fast. I
value it very much. Never forgot to take it off before.' 'I'll get it!'
and down went Josie, to come up with a handful of pebbles, but no
bracelet.

'It's gone; never mind   my fault,' said Miss Cameron, disappointed,
but amused at the girl's dismay as she shook the water out of her
eyes and gasped bravely:

'No, it isn't. I'll have it, if I stay down all night!' and with one long
breath Josie dived again, leaving nothing but a pair of agitated feet
to be seen.

'I'm afraid she will hurt herself,' said Miss Cameron, looking at
Bess, whom she recognized by her likeness to her mother.

'Oh, no; Josie is a little fish. She likes it'; and Bess smiled happily
at this wonderful granting of her cousin's desire.

'You are Mr Laurence's daughter, I think? How d'ye do, dear? Tell
papa I'm coming to see him soon. Too tired before. Quite savage.
Better now. Ah! here's our pearl of divers. What luck?' she asked,
as the heels went down and a dripping head came up.

Josie could only choke and splutter at first, being half strangled;
but though her hands had failed again, her courage had not; and
with a resolute shake of her wet hair, a bright look at the tall lady,
and a series of puffs to fill her lungs, she said calmly:

"Never give up" is my motto. I'm going to get it, if I go to
Liverpool for it! Now, then!' and down went the mermaid quite out
of sight this time, groping like a real lobster at the bottom of the
sea.

'Plucky little girl! I like that. Who is she?' asked the lady, sitting
down on a half-covered stone to watch her diver, since the bracelet
was lost sight of.

Bess told her, adding, with the persuasive smile of her father:
'Josie longs to be an actress, and has waited for a month to see you.
This is a great happiness for her.'

'Bless the child! why didn't she come and call? I'd have let her in;
though usually I avoid stage-struck girls as I do reporters,' laughed
Miss Cameron.

There was no time for more; a brown hand, grasping the bracelet,
rose out of the sea, followed by a purple face as Josie came up so
blind and dizzy she could only cling to Bess, half drowned but
triumphant.

Miss Cameron drew her to the rock where she sat, and pushing the
hair out of her eyes, revived her with a hearty 'Bravo! bravo!'
which assured the girl that her first act was a hit. Josie had often
imagined her meeting with the great actress   the dignity and grace
with which she would enter and tell her ambitious hopes, the
effective dress she would wear, she witty things she would say, the
deep impression her budding genius would make. But never in her
wildest moments had she imagined an interview like this; scarlet,
sandy, streaming, and speechless she leaned against the illustrious
shoulder, looking like a beautiful seal as she blinked and wheezed
till she could smile joyfully and exclaim proudly:

'I did get it! I'm so glad!'

'Now get your breath, my dear; then I shall be glad also. It was
very nice of you to take all that trouble for me. How shall I thank
you?' asked the lady, looking at her with the beautiful eyes that
could say so many things without words.

Josie clasped her hands with a wet spat which rather destroyed the
effect of the gesture, and answered in a beseeching tone that would
have softened a far harder heart than Miss Cameron's:

'Let me come and see you once   only once! I want you to tell me if
I can act; you will know. I'll abide by what you say; and if you
think I can   by and by, when I've studied very hard   I shall be the
happiest girl in the world. May I?'

'Yes; come tomorrow at eleven. We'll have a good talk; you shall
show me what you can do, and I'll give you my opinion. But you
won't like it.'

'I will, no matter if you tell me I'm a fool. I want it settled; so does
mamma. I'll take it bravely if you say no; and if you say yes, I'll
never give up till I've done my best   as you did.'

'Ah, my child, it's a weary road, and there are plenty of thorns
among the roses when you've won them. I think you have the
courage, and this proves that you have perseverance. Perhaps you'll
do. Come, and we'll see.'

Miss Cameron touched the bracelet as she spoke, and smiled so
kindly that impetuous Josie wanted to kiss her; but wisely
refrained, though her eyes were wet with softer water than any in
the sea as she thanked her.

'We are keeping Miss Cameron from her bathe, and the tide is
going out. Come, Josie,' said thoughtful Bess, fearing to outstay
their welcome.

'Run over the beach and get warm. Thank you very much, little
mermaid. Tell papa to bring his daughter to see me any time.
Good-bye'; and with a wave of her hand the tragedy queen
dismissed her court, but remained on her weedy throne watching
the two lithe figures race over the sand with twinkling feet till they
were out of sight. Then, as she calmly bobbed up and down in the
water, she said to herself: 'The child has a good stage face, vivid,
mobile; fine eyes, abandon, pluck, will. Perhaps she'll do. Good
stock   talent in the family. We shall see.'

Of course Josie never slept a wink, and was in a fever of joyful
excitement next day. Uncle Laurie enjoyed the episode very much,
and Aunt Amy looked out her most becoming white dress for the
grand occasion; Bess lent her most artistic hat, and Josie ranged
the wood and marsh for a bouquet of wild roses, sweet white
azalea, ferns, and graceful grasses, as the offering of a very
grateful heart.

At ten she solemnly arrayed herself, and then sat looking at her
neat gloves and buckled shoes till it was time to go, growing pale
and sober with the thought that her fate was soon to be decided;
for, like all young people she was sure that her whole life could be
settled by one human creature, quite forgetting how wonderfully
Providence trains us by disappointment, surprises us with
unexpected success, and turns our seeming trials into blessings.

'I will go alone: we shall be freer so. Oh, Bess, pray that she may
tell me rightly! So much depends on that! Don't laugh, uncle! It is a
very serious moment for me. Miss Cameron knows that, and will
tell you so. Kiss me, Aunt Amy, since mamma isn't here. If you say
I look nice, I'm quite satisfied. Good-bye.' And with a wave of the
hand as much like her model's as she could make it, Josie
departed, looking very pretty and feeling very tragical.

Sure now of admittance, she boldly rang at the door which
excluded so many, and being ushered into a shady parlour, feasted
her eyes upon several fine portraits of great actors while she
waited. She had read about most of them, and knew their trials and
triumphs so well that she soon forgot herself, and tried to imitate
Mrs Siddons as Lady Macbeth, looking up at the engraving as she
held her nosegay like the candle in the sleep-walking scene, and
knit her youthful brows distressfully while murmuring the speech
of the haunted queen. So busy was she that Miss Cameron watched
her for several minutes unseen, then startled her by suddenly
sweeping in with the words upon her lips, the look upon her face,
which made that one of her greatest scenes.

'I never can do it like that; but I'll keep trying, if you say I may,'
cried Josie, forgetting her manners in the intense interest of the
moment.

'Show me what you can do,' answered the actress, wisely plunging
into the middle of things at once, well knowing that no common
chat would satisfy this very earnest little person.

'First let me give you these. I thought you'd like wild things better
than hot-house flowers; and I loved to bring them, as I'd no other
way to thank you for your great kindness to me,' said Josie,
offering her nosegay with a simple warmth that was very sweet.

'I do love them best, and keep my room full of the posies some
good fairy hangs on my gate. Upon my word, I think I've found the
fairy out   these are so like,' she added quickly, as her eye went
from the flowers in her hand to others that stood near by, arranged
with the same taste.

Josie's blush and smile betrayed her before she said, with a look
full of girlish adoration and humility: 'I couldn't help it; I admire
you so much. I know it was a liberty; but as I couldn't get in
myself, I loved to think my posies pleased you.'

Something about the child and her little offering touched the
woman, and, drawing Josie to her, she said, with no trace of
actress in face or voice:

'They did please me, dear, and so do you. I'm tired of praise; and
love is very sweet, when it is simple and sincere like this.'

Josie remembered to have heard, among many other stories, that
Miss Cameron lost her lover years ago, and since had lived only
for art. Now she felt that this might have been true; and pity for the
splendid, lonely life made her face very eloquent, as well as
grateful. Then, as if anxious to forget the past, her new friend

said, in the commanding way that seemed natural to her:

'Let me see what you can do. Juliet, of course. All begin with that.
Poor soul, how she is murdered!'

Now, Josie had intended to begin with Romeo's much- enduring
sweetheart, and follow her up with Bianca, Pauline, and several of
the favourite idols of stage-struck girls; but being a shrewd little
person, she suddenly saw the wisdom of Uncle Laurie's advice, and
resolved to follow it. So instead of the rant Miss Cameron
expected, Josie gave poor Ophelia's mad scene, and gave it very
well, having been trained by the college professor of elocution and
done it many times. She was too young, of course, but the white
gown, the loose hair, the real flowers she scattered over the
imaginary grave, added to the illusion; and she sung the songs
sweetly, dropped her pathetic curtsies, and vanished behind the
curtain that divided the rooms with a backward look that surprised
her critical auditor into a quick gesture of applause. Cheered by
that welcome sound, Josie ran back as a little hoyden in one of the
farces she had often acted, telling a story full of fun and
naughtiness at first, but ending with a sob of repentance and an
earnest prayer for pardon.

'Very good! Try again. Better than I expected,' called the voice of
the oracle.

Josie tried Portia's speech, and recited very well, giving due
emphasis to each fine sentence. Then, unable to refrain from what
she considered her greatest effort, she burst into Juliet's balcony
scene, ending with the poison and the tomb. She felt sure that she
surpassed herself, and waited for applause. A ringing laugh made
her tingle with indignation and disappointment, as she went to
stand before Miss Cameron, saying in a tone of polite surprise:

'I have been told that I did it very well. I'm sorry you don't think
so.'

'My dear, it's very bad. How can it help being so? What can a child
like you know of love and fear and death? Don't try it yet. Leave
tragedy alone till you are ready for it.'

'But you clapped Ophelia.'

'Yes, that was very pretty. Any clever girl can do it effectively. But
the real meaning of Shakespeare is far above you yet, child. The
comedy bit was best. There you showed real talent. It was both
comic and pathetic. That's art. Don't lose it. The Portia was good
declamation. Go on with that sort of thing; it trains the voice
teaches shades of expression. You've a good voice and natural
grace   great helps both, hard to acquire.'

'Well, I'm glad I've got something,' sighed Josie, sitting meekly on
a stool, much crestfallen, but not daunted yet, and bound to have
her say out.

'My dear little girl, I told you that you would not like what I should
say to you; yet I must be honest if I would really help you. I've had
to do it for many like you; and most of them have never forgiven
me, though my words have proved true, and they are what I
advised them to be   good wives and happy mothers in quiet
homes. A few have kept on, and done fairly well. One you will
hear of soon, I think; for she has talent, indomitable patience, and
mind as well as beauty. You are too young to show to which class
you belong. Geniuses are very rare, and even at fifteen seldom give
much promise of future power.'

'Oh, I don't think I'm a genius!' cried Josie, growing calm and sober
as she listened to the melodious voice and looked into the
expressive face that filled her with confidence, so strong, sincere,
and kindly was it. 'I only want to find out if I have talent enough to
go on, and after years of study to be able to act well in any of the
good plays people never tire of seeing. I don't expect to be a Mrs
Siddons or a Miss Cameron, much as I long to be; but it does seem
as if I had something in me which can't come out in any way but
this. When I act I'm perfectly happy. I seem to live, to be in my
own world, and each new part is a new friend. I love Shakespeare,
and am never tired of his splendid people. Of course, I don't
understand it all; but it's like being alone at night with the
mountains and the stars, solemn and grand, and I try to imagine
how it will look when the sun comes up, and all is glorious and
clear to me. I can't see, but I feel the beauty, and long to express it.'

As she spoke with the most perfect self-forgetfulness Josie was
pale with excitement, her eyes shone, her lips trembled, and all her
little soul seemed trying to put into words the emotions that filled
it to overflowing. Miss Cameron understood, felt that this was
something more than a girlish whim; and when she answered there
was a new tone of sympathy in her voice, a new interest in her
face, though she wisely refrained from saying all she thought, well
knowing what splendid dreams young people build upon a word,
and how bitter is the pain when the bright bubbles burst.

'If you feel this, I can give you no better advice than to go on
loving and studying our great master,' she said slowly; but Josie
caught the changed tone, and felt, with a thrill of joy, that her new
friend was speaking to her now as to a comrade. 'It is an education
in itself, and a lifetime is not long enough to teach you all his
secret. But there is much to do before you can hope to echo his
words. Have you the patience, courage, strength, to begin at the
beginning, and slowly, painfully, lay the foundation for future
work? Fame is a pearl many dive for and only a few bring up. Even
when they do, it is not perfect, and they sigh for more, and lose
better things in struggling for them.'

The last words seemed spoken more to herself than to her hearer,
but Josie answered quickly, with a smile and an expressive
gesture:

'I got the bracelet in spite of all the bitter water in my eyes.'

'You did! I don't forget it. A good omen. We will accept it.'

Miss Cameron answered the smile with one that was like sunshine
to the girl, and stretched her white hands as if taking some
invisible gift. Then added in a different tone, watching the effect
of her words on the expressive face before her:

'Now you will be disappointed, for instead of telling you to come
and study with me, or go and act in some second-rate theatre at
once, I advise you to go back to school and finish your education.
That is the first step, for all accomplishments are needed, and a
single talent makes a very imperfect character. Cultivate mind and
body, heart and soul, and make yourself an intelligent, graceful,
beautiful, and healthy girl. Then, at eighteen or twenty, go into
training and try your powers. Better start for the battle with your
arms in order, and save the hard lesson which comes when we rush
on too soon. Now and then genius carries all before it, but not
often. We have to climb slowly, with many slips and falls. Can you
wait as well as work?'

'I will!'

'We shall see. It would be pleasant to me to know that when I quit
the stage I leave behind me a well-trained, faithful, gifted comrade
to more than fill my place, and carry on what I have much at heart
the purification of the stage. Perhaps you are she; but remember,
mere beauty and rich costumes do not make an actress, nor are the
efforts of a clever little girl to play great characters real art. It is all
dazzle and sham, and a disgrace and disappointment now. Why
will the public be satisfied with opera bouffe, or the trash called
society plays when a world of truth and beauty, poetry and pathos
lies waiting to be interpreted and enjoyed?'

Miss Cameron had forgotten to whom she spoke, and walked to
and fro, full of the noble regret all cultivated people feel at the low
state of the stage nowadays.

'That's what Uncle Laurie says; and he and Aunt Jo try to plan
plays about true and lovely things   simple domestic scenes that
touch people's hearts, and make them laugh and cry and feel better.
Uncle says that sort is my style, and I must not think of tragedy.
But it's so much nicer to sweep about in crowns and velvet trains
than to wear everyday clothes, and just be myself, though it is so
easy.'

'Yet that is high art, child, and what we need for a time till we are
ready for the masters. Cultivate that talent of yours. It is a special
gift, this power to bring tears and smiles, and a sweeter task to
touch the heart than to freeze the blood or fire the imagination.
Tell your uncle he is right, and ask your aunt to try a play for you.
I'll come and see it when you are ready.'

'Will you? Oh! will you? We are going to have some at Christmas,
with a nice part for me. A simple little thing, but I can do it, and
should be so proud, so happy to have you there.'

Josie rose as she spoke, for a glance at the clock showed her that
her call was a long one; and hard as it was to end this momentous
interview, she felt that she must go. Catching up her hat she went
to Miss Cameron, who stood looking at her so keenly that she felt
as transparent as a pane of glass, and coloured prettily as she
looked up, saying, with a grateful little tremor in her voice:

'I can never thank you for this hour and all you have told me. I
shall do just what you advise, and mamma will be very glad to see
me settled at my books again. I can study now with all my heart,
because it is to help me on; and I won't hope too much, but work
and wait, and try to please you, as the only way to pay my debt.'

'That reminds me that I have not paid mine. Little friend, wear this
for my sake. It is fit for a mermaid, and will remind you of your
first dive. May the next bring up a better jewel, and leave no bitter
water on your lips!'

As she spoke, Miss Cameron took from the lace at her throat a
pretty pin of aquamarine, and fastened it like an order on Josie's
proud bosom; then lifting the happy little face, she kissed it very
tenderly, and watched it go smiling away with eyes that seemed to
see into a future full of the trials and the triumphs which she knew
so well.

Bess expected to see Josie come flying in, all raptures and
excitement, or drowned in tears of disappointment, but was
surprised at the expression of calm content and resolution which
she wore. Pride and satisfaction, and a new feeling of
responsibility both sobered and sustained her, and she felt that any
amount of dry study and long waiting would be bearable, if in the
glorious future she could be an honour to her profession and a
comrade to the new friend whom she already adored with girlish
ardour.

She told her little story to a deeply interested audience, and all felt
that Miss Cameron's advice was good. Mrs Amy was relieved at
the prospect of delay; for she did not want her niece to be an
actress and hoped the fancy would die out.

Uncle Laurie was full of charming plans and prophecies and wrote
one of his most delightful notes to thank their neighbour for her
kindness; while Bess, who loved art of all kinds, fully sympathized
with her cousin's ambitious hopes, only wondering why she
preferred to act out her visions rather than embody them in marble.

That first interview was not the last; for Miss Cameron was really
interested, and had several memorable conversations with the
Laurences, while the girls sat by, drinking in every word with the
delight all artists feel in their own beautiful world, and learning to
see how sacred good gifts are, how powerful, and how faithfully
they should be used for high ends, each in its own place helping to
educate, refine, and refresh.

Josie wrote reams to her mother; and when the visit ended rejoiced
her heart by bringing her a somewhat changed little daughter, who
fell to work at the once-detested books with a patient energy which
surprised and pleased everyone. The right string had been touched,
and even French exercises and piano practice became endurable,
since accomplishments would be useful by and by; dress, manners,
and habits were all interesting now, because 'mind and body, heart
and soul, must be cultivated', and while training to become an
'intelligent, graceful, healthy girl', little Josie was unconsciously
fitting herself to play her part well on whatever stage the great
Manager might prepare for her.

Chapter THE WORM TURNS

Two very superior bicycles went twinkling up the road to
Plumfield one September afternoon, bearing two brown and dusty
riders evidently returning from a successful run, for though their
legs might be a trifle weary, their faces beamed as they surveyed
the world from their lofty perches with the air of calm content all
wheelmen wear after they have learned to ride; before that happy
period anguish of mind and body is the chief expression of the
manly countenance.

'Go ahead and report, Tom; I'm due here. See you later,' said Demi,
swinging himself down at the door of the Dovecote.

'Don't peach, there's a good fellow. Let me have it out with Mother
Bhaer first,' returned Tom, wheeling in at the gate with a heavy
sigh.

Demi laughed, and his comrade went slowly up the avenue,
devoutly hoping that the coast was clear; for he was the bearer of
tidings which would, he thought, convulse the entire family with
-astonishment and dismay.

To his great joy Mrs Jo was discovered alone in a grove of
proof-sheets, which she dropped, to greet the returning wanderer
cordially. But after the first glance she saw that something was the
matter, recent events having made her unusually sharp-eyed and
suspicious.

'What is it now, Tom?' she asked, as he subsided into an easy-chair
with a curious expression of mingled fear, shame, amusement, and
distress in his brick-red countenance.

'I'm in an awful scrape, ma'am.'

'Of course; I'm always prepared for scrapes when you appear. What
is it? Run over some old lady who is going to law about it?' asked
Mrs Jo cheerfully.

'Worse than that,' groaned Tom.

'Not poisoned some trusting soul who asked you to prescribe, I
hope?'

'Worse than that.'

'You haven't let Demi catch any horrid thing and left him behind,
have you?'

'Worse even than that.'

'I give it up. Tell me quick; I hate to wait for bad news.'

Having got his listener sufficiently excited, Tom launched his
thunderbolt in one brief sentence, and fell back to watch the effect.

'I'm engaged!'

Mrs Jo's proof-sheets flew wildly about as she clasped her hands,
exclaiming in dismay:

'If Nan has yielded, I'll never forgive her!'

'She hasn't; it's another girl.'

Tom's face was so funny as he said the words, that it was
impossible to help laughing; for he looked both sheepish and
pleased, besides very much perplexed and worried.

'I'm glad, very glad indeed! Don't care who it is; and I hope you'll
be married soon. Now tell me all about it,' commanded Mrs Jo, so
much relieved that she felt ready for anything.

'What will Nan say?' demanded Tom, rather taken aback at this
view of his predicament.

'She will be rejoiced to get rid of the mosquito who has plagued
her so long. Don't worry about Nan. Who is this "other girl"?'

'Demi hasn't written about her?'

'Only something about your upsetting a Miss West down at Quitno;
I thought that was scrape enough.'

'That was only the beginning of a series of scrapes. Just my luck!
Of course after sousing the poor girl I had to be attentive to her,
hadn't I? Everyone seemed to think so, and I couldn't get away, and
so I was lost before I knew it. It's all Demi's fault, he would stay
there and fuss with his old photos, because the views were good
and all the girls wanted to be taken. Look at these, will you,
ma'am? That's the way we spent our time when we weren't playing
tennis'; and Tom pulled a handful of pictures from his pocket,
displaying several in which he was conspicuous, either holding a
sun-umbrella over a very pretty young lady on the rocks, reposing
at her feet in the grass, or perched on a piazza railing with other
couples in seaside costumes and effective attitudes.

'This is she of course?' asked Mrs Jo, pointing to the much-ruffled
damsel with the jaunty hat, coquettish shoes, and racket in her
hand.

'That's Dora. Isn't she lovely?' cried Tom, forgetting his tribulations
for a moment and speaking with lover-like ardour.

'Very nice little person to look at. Hope she is not a Dickens Dora?
That curly crop looks like it.' 'Not a bit; she's very smart; can keep
house, and sew, and do lots of things, I assure you, ma'am. All the
girls like her, and she's sweet-tempered and jolly, and sings like a
bird, and dances beautifully, and loves books. Thinks yours are
splendid, and made me talk about you no end.'

'That last sentence is to flatter me and win my help to get you out
of the scrape. Tell me first how you got in'; and Mrs Jo settled
herself to listen with interest, never tired of boys' affairs.

Tom gave his head a rousing rub all over to clear his wits, and
plunged into his story with a will.

'Well, we've met her before, but I didn't know she was there. Demi
wanted to see a fellow, so we went, and finding it nice and cool
rested over Sunday. Found some pleasant people and went out
rowing; I had Dora, and came to grief on a confounded rock. She
could swim, no harm done, only the scare and the spoilt gown. She
took it well, and we got friendly at once   couldn't help it,
scrambling into that beast of a boat while the rest laughed at us. Of
course we had to stay another day to see that Dora was all right.
Demi wanted to. Alice Heath is down there and two other girls
from our college, so we sort of lingered along, and Demi kept
taking pictures, and we danced, and got into a tennis tournament;
and that was as good exercise as wheeling, we thought. Fact is,
tennis is a dangerous game, ma'am. A great deal of courting goes
on in those courts, and we fellows find that sort of "serving"
mighty agreeable, don't you know?'

'Not much tennis in my day, but I understand perfectly,' said Mrs
Jo, enjoying it all as much as Tom did. 'Upon my word, I hadn't the
least idea of being serious,' he continued slowly, as if this part of
his tale was hard to tell; 'but everyone else spooned, so I did. Dora
seemed to like it and expect it, and of course I was glad to be
agreeable. She thought I amounted to something, though Nan does
not, and it was pleasant to be appreciated after years of snubbing.
Yes, it was right down jolly to have a sweet girl smile at you all
day, and blush prettily when you said a neat thing to her, and look
glad when you came, sorry when you left, and admire all you did,
and make you feel like a man and act your best. That's the sort of
treatment a fellow enjoys and ought to get if he behaves himself;
not frowns and cold shoulders year in and year out, and made to
look like a fool when he means well, and is faithful, and has loved
a girl ever since he was a boy. No, by Jove, it's not fair, and I won't
stand it!'

Tom waxed warm and eloquent as he thought over his wrongs, and
bounced up to march about the room, wagging his head and trying
to feel aggrieved as usual, but surprised to find that his heart did
not ache a bit.

'I wouldn't. Drop the old fancy, for it was nothing more   and take
up the new one, if it is genuine. But how came you to propose,
Tom, as you must have done to be engaged?' asked Mrs Jo,
impatient for the crisis of the tale.

'Oh, that was an accident. I didn't mean it at all; the donkey did it,
and I couldn't get out of the scrape without hurting Dora's feelings,
you see,' began Tom, seeing that the fatal moment had come.

'So there were two donkeys in it, were there?' said Mrs Jo,
foreseeing fun of some sort.

'Don't laugh! It sounds funny, I know; but it might have been
awful,' answered Tom darkly, though a twinkle of the eye showed
that his love trials did not quite blind him to the comic side of the
adventure.

'The girls admired our new wheels, and of course we liked to show
off. Took 'em to ride, and had larks generally. Well, one day, Dora
was on behind, and we were going nicely along a good bit of road,
when a ridiculous old donkey got right across the way. I thought
he'd move, but he didn't, so I gave him a kick; he kicked back, and
over we went in a heap, donkey and all. Such a mess! I thought
only of Dora, and she had hysterics; at least, she laughed till she
cried, and that beast brayed, and I lost my head. Any fellow would,
with a poor girl gasping in the road, and he wiping her tears and
begging pardon, not knowing whether her bones were broken or
not. I called her my darling, and went on like a fool in my flurry,
till she grew calmer, and said, with such a look: "I forgive you,
Tom. Pick me up, and let us go on again."

'Wasn't that sweet now, after I'd upset her for the second time? It
touched me to the heart; and I said I'd like to go on for ever with
such an angel to steer for, and - well I don't know what I did say;
but you might have knocked me down with a feather when she put
her arm round my neck and whispered: "Tom, dear, with you I'm
not afraid of any lions in the path." She might have said donkeys;
but she was in earnest, and she spared my feelings. Very nice of
the dear girl; but there I am with two sweethearts on my hands,
and in a deu~ of a scrape.'

Finding it impossible to contain herself another moment, Mrs Jo
laughed till the tears ran down her cheeks at this characteristic
episode; and after one reproachful look, which only added to her
merriment, Tom burst into a jolly roar that made the room ring.

'Tommy Bangs! Tommy Bangs! who but you could ever get into
such a catastrophe?' said Mrs Jo, when she recovered her breath.

'Isn't it a muddle all round, and won't everyone chaff me to death
about it? I shall have to quit old Plum for a while,' answered Tom,
as he mopped his face, trying to realize the full danger of his
position.

'No, indeed; I'll stand by you, for I think it the best joke of the
season. But tell me how things ended. Is it really serious, or only a
summer flirtation? I don't approve of them, but boys and girls will
play with edged tools and cut their fingers.'

'Well, Dora considers herself engaged, and wrote to her people at
once. I couldn't say a word when she took it all in solemn earnest
and seemed so happy. She's only seventeen, never liked anyone
before, and is sure all will be all right; as her father knows mine,
and we are both well off. I was so staggered that I said:

"Why, you can't love me really when we know so little of one
another?" But she answered right out of her tender little heart:
"Yes, I do, dearly, Tom; you are so gay and kind and honest, I
couldn't help it." Now, after that what could I do but go ahead and
make her happy while I stayed, and trust to luck to straighten the
snarl out afterwards?'

'A truly Tomian way of taking things easy. I hope you told your
father at once.'

'Oh yes, I wrote off and broke it to him in three lines. I said: "Dear
Father, I'm engaged to Dora West, and I hope she will suit the
family. She suits me tip-top. Yours ever, Tom." He was all right,
never liked Nan, you know; but Dora will suit him down to the
ground.' And Tom looked entirely satisfied with his own tact and
taste.

'What did Demi say to this rapid and funny lovemaking? Wasn't he
scandalized?' asked Mrs Jo, trying not to laugh again as she
thought of the unromantic spectacle of donkey, bicycle, boy, and
girl all in the dust together.

'Not a bit. He was immensely interested and very kind; talked to
me like a father; said it was a good thing to steady a fellow, only I
must be honest with her and myself and not trifle a moment. Demi
is a regular Solomon, especially when he is in the same boat,'
answered Tom, looking wise.

'You don't mean   ?' gasped Mrs Jo, in sudden alarm at the bare
idea of more love-affairs just yet.

'Yes, I do, please, ma'am; it's a regular sell all the way through, and
I owe Demi one for taking me into temptation blindfold. He said
he went to Quitno to see Fred Wallace, but he never saw the
fellow. How could he, when Wallace was off in his yacht all the
time we were there? Alice was the real attraction, and I was left to
my fate, while they were maundering round with that old camera.
There were three donkeys in this affair, and I'm not the worst one,
though I shall have to bear the laugh. Demi will look innocent and
sober, and no one will say a word to him.'

'The midsummer madness has broken out, and no one knows who
will be stricken next. Well, leave Demi to his mother, and let us
see what you are going to do, Tom.'

'I don't know exactly; it's awkward to be in love with two girls at
once. What do you advise?' 'A common-sense view of the case, by
all means. Dora loves you and thinks you love her. Nan does not
care for you, and you only care for her as a friend, though you have
tried to do more. It is my opinion, Tom, that you love Dora, or are
on the way to it; for in all these years I've never seen you look or
speak about Nan as you do about Dora. Opposition has made you
obstinately cling to her till accident has shown you a more
attractive girl. Now, I think you had better take the old love for a
friend, the new one for a sweetheart, and in due time, if the
sentiment is genuine, marry her.'

If Mrs Jo had any doubts about the matter, Tom's face would have
proved the truth of her opinion; for his eyes shone, his lips smiled,
and in spite of dust and sunburn a new expression of happiness
quite glorified him as he stood silent for a moment, trying to
understand the beautiful miracle which real love works when it
comes to a young man's heart.

'The fact is I meant to make Nan jealous, for she knows Dora, and
I was sure would hear of our doings. I was tired of being walked
on, and I thought I'd try to break away and not be a bore and a
laughing-stock any more,' he said slowly, as if it relieved him to
pour out his doubts and woes and hopes and joys to his old friend.
'I was regularly astonished to find it so easy and so pleasant. I
didn't mean to do any harm, but drifted along beautifully, and told
Demi to mention things in his letters to Daisy, so Nan might know.
Then I forgot Nan altogether, and saw, heard, felt, cared for no one
but Dora, till the donkey   bless his old heart!   pitched her into my
arms and I found she loved me. Upon my soul, I don't see why she
should! I'm not half good enough.' 'Every honest man feels that
when an innocent girl puts her hand in his. Make yourself worthy
of her, for she isn't an angel, but a woman with faults of her own
for you to bear, and forgive, and you must help one another,' said
Mrs Jo, trying to realize that this sober youth was her scapegrace
Tommy.

'What troubles me is that I didn't mean it when I began, and was
going to use the dear girl as an instrument of torture for Nan. It
wasn't right, and I don't deserve to be so happy. If all my scrapes
ended as well as this, what a state of bliss I should be in!' and Tom
beamed again at the rapturous prospect.

'My dear boy, it is not a scrape, but a very sweet experience
suddenly dawning upon you,' answered Mrs Jo, speaking very
soberly; for she saw he was in earnest. 'Enjoy it wisely and be
worthy of it, for it is a serious thing to accept a girl's love and trust,
and let her look up to you for tenderness and truth in return. Don't
let little Dora look in vain, but be a man in all things for her sake,
and make this affection a blessing to you both.'

'I'll try. Yes, I do love her, only I can't believe it just yet. Wish you
knew her. Dear little soul, I long to see her already! She cried
when we parted last night and I hated to go.' Tom's hand went to
his cheek as if he still felt the rosy little seal Dora had set upon his
promise not to forget her, and for the first time in his
happy-go-lucky life Tommy Bangs understood the difference
between sentiment and sentimentality. The feeling recalled Nan,
for he had never known that tender thrill when thinking of her, and
the old friendship seemed rather a prosaic affair beside this
delightful mingling of romance, surprise, love, and fun. 'I declare, I
feel as if a weight was off me, but what the dickens will Nan say
when she knows it!' he exclaimed with a chuckle.

'Knows what?' asked a clear voice that made both start and turn,
for there was Nan calmly surveying them from the doorway.

Anxious to put Tom out of suspense and see how Nan would take
the news, Mrs Jo answered quickly:

'Tom's engagement to Dora West.'

'Really?' and Nan looked so surprised that Mrs Jo was afraid she
might be fonder of her old playmate than she knew; but her next
words set the fear at rest, and made everything comfortable and
merry at once.

'I knew my prescription would work wonders if he only took it
long enough. Dear old Tom, I'm so glad. Bless you! bless you!'
And she shook both his hands with hearty affection.

'It was an accident, Nan. I didn't mean to, but I'm always getting
into messes, and I couldn't seem to get out of this any other way.
Mother Bhaer will tell you all about it. I must go and make myself
tidy. Going to tea with Demi. See you later.'

Stammering, blushing, and looking both sheepish and gratified,
Tom suddenly bolted, leaving the elder lady to enlighten the
younger at length, and have another laugh over this new sort of
courtship, which might well be called accidental. Nan was deeply
interested, for she knew Dora, thought her a nice little thing, and
predicted that in time she would make Tom an excellent wife,
since she admired and 'appreciated' him so much.

'I shall miss him of course, but it will be a relief to me and better
for him; dangling is so bad for a boy. Now he will go into business
with his father and do well, and everyone be happy. I shall give
Dora an elegant family medicine-chest for a wedding-present, and
teach her how to use it. Tom can't be trusted, and is no more fit for
the profession than Silas.'

The latter part of this speech relieved Mrs Jo's mind, for Nan had
looked about her as if she had lost something valuable when she
began; but the medicine-chest seemed to cheer her, and the
thought of Tom in a safe profession was evidently a great comfort.

'The worm has turned at last, Nan, and your bond-man is free. Let
him go, and give your whole mind to your work; for you are fitted
for the profession, and will be an honour to it by and by,' she said
approvingly.

'I hope so. That reminds me   measles are in the village, and you
had better tell the girls not to call where there are children. It
would be bad to have a run of them just as term begins. Now I'm
off to Daisy. Wonder what she will say to Tom. Isn't he great fun?'
And Nan departed, laughing over the joke with such genuine
satisfaction that it was evident no sentimental regrets disturbed her
'maiden meditation, fancy-free'.

'I shall have my eye on Demi, but won't say a word. Meg likes to
manage her children in her own way, and a very good way it is.
But the dear Pelican will be somewhat ruffled if her boy has
caught the epidemic which seems to have broken out among us
this summer.'

Mrs Jo did not mean the measles, but that more serious malady
called love, which is apt to ravage communities, spring and
autumn, when winter gaiety and summer idleness produce whole
bouquets of en- gagements, and set young people to pairing off
like the birds. Franz began it, Nat was a chronic and Tom a sudden
case; Demi seemed to have the symptoms; and worst of all, her
own Ted had only the day before calmly said to her: 'Mum, I think
I should be happier if I had a sweetheart, like the other boys.' If her
cherished son had asked her for dynamite to play with, she would
hardly have been more startled, or have more decidedly refused the
absurd request.

'Well, Barry Morgan said I ought to have one and

offered to pick me out a nice one among our set. I

asked Josie first, and she hooted at the idea, so I

thought I'd let Barry look round. You say it steadies a

fellow, and I want to be steady,' explained Ted in a

serious tone, which would have convulsed his parent

at any other time.

'Good lack! What are we coming to in this fast age when babes and
boys make such demands and want to play with one of the most
sacred things in life?' exclaimed Mrs Jo, and having in a few words
set the matter in its true light, sent her son away to wholesome
baseball and Octoo for a safe sweetheart.

Now, here was Tom's bomb-shell to explode in their midst,
carrying widespread destruction, perhaps; for though one swallow
does not make a summer, one engagement is apt to make several,
and her boys were, most of them, at the inflammable age when a
spark ignites the flame, which soon flickers and dies out, or burns
warm and clear for life. Nothing could be done about it but to help
them make wise choices, and be worthy of good mates. But of all
the lessons Mrs Jo had tried to teach her boys, this great one was
the hardest; for love is apt to make lunatics of even saints and
sages, so young people cannot be expected to escape the delusions,
disappointments, and mistakes, as well as the delights, of this
sweet madness.

'I suppose it is inevitable, since we live in America, so I won't
borrow trouble, but hope that some of the new ideas of education
will produce a few hearty, happy, capable, and intelligent girls for
my lads. Lucky for me that I haven't the whole twelve on my
hands, I should lose my wits if I had, for I foresee complications
and troubles ahead worse than Tom's boats, bicycles, donkeys, and
Doras,' meditated Mrs Jo, as she went back to her neglected
proof-sheets.

Tom was quite satisfied with the tremendous effect his
engagement produced in the little community at Plum-field. 'It was
paralysing,' as Demi said; and astonishment left most of Tom's
mates little breath for chaff. That he, the faithful one, should turn
from the idol to strange goddesses, was a shock to the romantic
and a warning to the susceptible. It was comical to see the airs our
Thomas put on; for the most ludicrous parts of the affair were
kindly buried in oblivion by the few who knew them, and Tom
burst forth as a full-blown hero who had rescued the maiden from
a watery grave, and won her gratitude and love by his daring deed.
Dora kept the secret, and enjoyed the fun when she came to see
Mother Bhaer and pay her respects to the family generally.
Everyone liked her at once, for she was a gay and winning little
soul; fresh, frank, and so happy, it was beautiful to see her
innocent pride in Tom, who was a new boy, or man rather; for with
this change in his life a great change took place in him. Jolly he
would always be, and impulsive, but he tried to become all that
Dora believed him, and his best side came uppermost for everyday
wear. It was surprising to see how many good traits Tom had; and
his efforts to preserve the manly dignity belonging to his proud
position as an engaged man was very comical. So was the entire
change from his former abasement and devotion to Nan to a
somewhat lordly air with his little betrothed; for Dora made an
idol of him, and resented the idea of a fault or a flaw in her Tom.
This new state of things suited both, and the once blighted being
bloomed finely in the warm atmosphere of appreciation, love, and
confidence. He was very fond of the dear girl, but meant to be a
slave no longer, and enjoyed his freedom immensely, quite
unconscious that the great tyrant of the world had got hold of him
for life.

To his father's satisfaction he gave up his medical studies, and
prepared to go into business with the old gentleman, who was a
flourishing merchant, ready now to make the way smooth and
smile upon his marriage with Mr West's well-endowed daughter.
The only thorn in Tom's bed of roses was Nan's placid interest in
his affairs, and evident relief at his disloyalty. He did not want her
to suffer, but a decent amount of regret at the loss of such a lover
would have gratified him; a slight melancholy, a word of reproach,
a glance of envy as he passed with adoring Dora on his arm,
seemed but the fitting tribute to such years of faithful service and
sincere affection. But Nan regarded him with a maternal sort of air
that nettled him very much, and patted Dora's curly head with a
worldlywise air worthy of the withered spinster, Julia Mills, in
David Copperfield.

It took some time to get the old and the new emo tions
comfortably adjusted, but Mrs Jo helped him, and Mr Laurie gave
him some wise advice upon the astonishing gymnastic feats the
human heart can perform, and be all the better for it if it only held
fast to the balancing-pole of truth and common sense. At last our
Tommy got his bearings, and as autumn came on Plumfield saw
but little of him; for his new lode star was in the city, and business
kept him hard at work. He was evidently in his right place now,
and soon throve finely, to his father's great contentment; for his
jovial presence pervaded the once quiet office like a gale of fresh
wind, and his lively wits found managing men and affairs much
more congenial employment than studying disease, or playing
unseemly pranks with skeletons.

Here we will leave him for a time and turn to the more serious
adventures of his mates, though this engagement, so merrily made,
was the anchor which kept our mercurial Tom happy, and made a
man of

Chapter 10 DEMI SETTLES

'Mother, can I have a little serious conversation with you?' asked
Demi one evening, as they sat together enjoying the first fire of the
season, while Daisy wrote letters upstairs and Josie was studying
in the little library close by.

'Certainly, dear. No bad news, I hope?' and Mrs Meg looked up
from her sewing with a mixture of pleasure and anxiety on her
motherly face; for she dearly loved a good talk with her son, and
knew that he always had something worth telling.

'It will be good news for you, I think,' answered Demi, smiling as
he threw away his paper and went to sit beside her on the little sofa
which just held two.

'Let me hear it, then, at once.'

'I know you don't like the reporting, and will be glad to hear that I
have given it up.'

'I am very glad! It is too uncertain a business, and there is no
prospect of getting on for a long time. I want you settled in some
good place where you can stay, and in time make money. I wish
you liked a profession; but as you don't, any clean, well-established
business will do.'

'What do you say to a railroad office?'

'I don't like it. A noisy, hurried kind of place, I know, with all sorts
of rough men about. I hope it isn't that, dear?'

'I could have it; but does book-keeping in a wholesale leather
business please you better?'

'No; you'll get round-shouldered writing at a tall desk; and they
say, once a book-keeper always a bookkeeper.'

'How does a travelling agent suit your views?'

'Not at all; with all those dreadful accidents, and the exposure and
bad food as you go from place to place, you are sure to get killed
or lose your health.'

'I could be private secretary to a. literary man; but the salary is
small, and may end any time.'

'That would be better, and more what I want. It isn't that I object to
honest work of any kind; but I don't want my son to spend his best
years grubbing for a little money in a dark office, or be knocked
about in a rough-and-tumble scramble to get on. I want to see you
in some business where your tastes and talents can be developed
and made useful; where you can go on rising, and in time put in
your little fortune and be a partner; so that your years of
apprenticeship will not be wasted, but fit you to take your place
among the honourable men who make their lives and work useful
and respected. I talked it all over with your dear father when you
were a child; and if he had lived he would have shown you what I
mean, and helped you to be what he was.'

Mrs Meg wiped away a quiet tear as she spoke; for the memory of
her husband was a very tender one, and the education of his
children had been a sacred task to which she gave all her heart and
life, and so far she had done wonderfully well   as her good son
and loving daughters tried to prove. Demi's arm was round her
now, as he said, in a voice so like his father's that it was the
sweetest music to her ear:

'Mother dear, I think I have got just what you want ~or me; and h
shall not be ~ fMll? ~f I don't b~comr the man you hope to see
me. Let me tell you all about

it. I didn't ~ay anything till it was surer because ~t would only
worry you; but Aunt Jo and I have been on the look-out for it some
time, and now it has come. You know her publisher, Mr Tiber, is
one of the most successful men in the business; also generous,
kind, and the soul of honour   as his treatment of Aunty proves.
Well, I've rather hankered for that place; for I love books, and as I
can't make them I'd like to publish them. That needs some literary
taste and judgement, it brings you in contact with fine people, and
is an education in itself. Whenever I go into that large, handsome
room to see Mr Tiber for Aunt Jo, I always want to stay; for it's
lined with books and pictures, famous men and women come and
go, and Mr Tiber sits at his desk like a sort of king, receiving his
subjects; for the greatest authors are humble to him, and wait his
Yes or No with anxiety. Of course I've nothing to do with all that,
and may never have; but I like to see it, and the atmosphere is so
different from the dark offices and hurly-burly of many other
trades, where nothing but money is talked about, that it seems
another world, and I feel at home in it. Yes, I'd rather beat the
door-mats and make fires there than be head clerk in the great hide
and leather store at a big salary.' Here Demi paused for breath; and
Mrs Meg, whose face had been growing brighter and brighter,
exclaimed eagerly: 'Just what I should like! Have you got it? Oh,
my dear boy! your fortune is made if you go to that
well-established and flourishing place, with those good men to
help you along!'

'I think I have, but we mustn't be too sure of anything yet. I may
not suit; I'm only on trial, and must begin at the beginning and
work my way up faithfully. Mr Tiber was very kind, and will push
me on as fast as is fair to the other fellows, and as I prove myself
fit to go up. I'm to begin the first of next month in the book-room,
filing orders; and I go round and get orders, and do various other
things of the sort. I like it. I am ready to do anything about books,
if it's only to dust them,' laughed Demi, well pleased with his
prospects, for, after trying various things, he seemed at last to have
found the sort of work he liked, and a prospect that was very
inviting to him.

'You inherit that love of books from grandpa; he can't live without
them. I'm glad of it. Tastes of that kind show a refined nature, and
are both a comfort and a help all one's life. I am truly glad and
grateful, John, that at last you want to settle, and have got such an
entirely satisfactory place. Most boys begin much earlier; but I
don't believe in sending them out to face the world so young, just
when body and soul need home care and watchfulness. Now you
are a man, and must begin your life for yourself. Do your best, and
be as honest, useful, and happy as your father, and I won't care
about making a fortune.'

'I'll try, mother. Couldn't have a better chance; for Tiber & Co.
treat their people like gentlemen, and pay generously for faithful
work. Things are done in a businesslike way there, and that suits
me. I hate prom- ises that are not kept, and shiftless or tyrannical
ways anywhere. Mr Tiber said: "This is only to teach you the
ropes, Brooke; I shall have other work for you by and by." Aunty
told him I had done book notices, and

had rather a ~M 1it~!!iltllP~ ~O t11Oll~h I CIfl't produce any
"works of Shakespeare", as she says, I may get up some little
things later. If I don't, I think it a very honourable and noble
profession to select and give good books to the world; and I'm
satisfied to be a humble helper in the work.'

'I'm glad you feel so. It adds so much to one's happiness to love the
task one does. I used to hate teaching; but housekeeping for my
own family was always sweet, though much harder in many ways.
Isn't Aunt Jo pleased about all this?' asked Mrs Meg, already
seeing in her mind's eye a splendid sign with 'Tiber, Brooke & Co.'
over the door of a famous publishing house.

'So pleased that I could hardly keep her from letting the cat out of
the bag too soon. I've had so many plans, and disappointed you so
often, I wanted to be very sure this time. I had to bribe Rob and
Ted to keep her at home tonight till I'd told my news, she was
eager to rush down and tell you herself. The castles that dear
woman has built for me would fill all Spain, and have kept us jolly
while we waited to know our fate. Mr Tiber doesn't do things in a
hurry; but when he makes up his mind, you are all right; and I feel
that I am fairly launched.'

'Bless you, dear, I hope so! It is a happy day for me, because I've
been so anxious lest, with all my care, I have been too easy and
indulgent, and my boy, with his many good gifts, might fritter his
time away in harmless but unsatisfactory things. Now I am at ease
about you. If only Daisy can be happy, and Josie give up her
dream, I shall be quite contented.'

Demi let his mother enjoy herself for a few minutes, while he
smiled over a certain little dream of his own, not ready yet for the
telling; then he said, in the paternal tone which he unconsciously
used when speaking of his sisters:

'I'll see to the girls; but I begin to think grandpa is right in saying
we must each be what God and nature makes us. We can't change
it much   only help to develop the good and control the bad
elements in us. I have fumbled my way into my right place at last, I
hope. Let Daisy be happy in her way, since it is a good and
womanly one. If Nat comes home all right, I'd say: "Bless you, my
children," and.give them a nest of their own. Then you and I will
help little Jo to find out if it is to be "All the world's a stage" or
"Home, sweet home", for her.'

'I suppose we must, John; but I can't help making plans, and
hoping they will come to pass. I see that Daisy is bound up in Nat;
and if he is worthy of her I shall let them be happy in their own
way, as my parents let me. But Josie will be a trial, I foresee; and
much as I love the stage, and always did, I don't see how 1 can ever
let my little girl be an actress, though she certainly has great talent
for it.'

'Whose fault is that?' asked Demi, smiling, as he remembered his
mother's early triumphs and unquenchable interest in the dramatic
efforts of the young people round her.

'Mine, I know. How could it be otherwise when I acted Babes in
the Wood with you and Daisy before you could speak, and taught
Josie to declaim Mother Goose in her cradle. Ah, me! the tastes of
the mother come out in her children, and she must atone for them
by letting them have their own way, I suppose.' And Mrs Meg
laughed, even while she shook her head over the undeniable fact
that the Marches were a theatrical family.

'Why not have a great actress of our name, as well as an authoress,
a minister, and an eminent publisher? We don't choose our talents,
but we needn't hide them in a napkin because they are not just
what we want. I say, let Jo have her way, and do what she can.
Here am I to take care of her; and you can't deny you'd enjoy fixing
her furbelows, and seeing her shine before the footlights, where
you used to long to be. Come, mother, better face the music and
march gaily, since your wilful children will "gang their am gait".'

'I don't see but I must, and "leave the consequences to the Lord", as
Marmee used to say when she had to decide, and only saw a step
of the road. I should enjoy it immensely, if I could only feel that
the life would not hurt my girl, and leave her unsatisfied when it
was too late to change; for nothing is harder to give up than the
excitements of that profession. I know something of it; and if your
blessed father had not come along, I'm afraid I should have been
an actress in spite of Aunt March and all our honoured ancestors.'

'Let Josie add new honour to the name, and work out the family
talent in its proper place. I'll play dragon to her, and you play
nurse, and no harm can come to our little Juliet, no matter how
many Romeos spoon under her balcony. Really, ma'am, opposition
comes badly from an old lady who is going to wring the hearts of
our audience in the heroine's part in Aunty's play next Christmas.
It's the most pathetic thing I ever saw, mother; and I'm sorry you
didn't become an actress, though we should be nowhere if you had.'

Demi was on his legs now, with his back to the fire, in the lordly
attitude men like to assume when things go well with them, or they
want to lay down the law on any subject.

Mrs Meg actually blushed at her son's hearty praise, and could not
deny that the sound of applause was as sweet now as when she
played the Witch's Curse and The Moorish Maiden's Vow long
years ago.

'It's perfectly absurd for me to do it, but I couldn't resist when Jo
and Laurie made the part for me, and you children were to act in it.
The minute I get on the old mother's dress I forget myself and feel
the same thrill at the sound of the bell that I used to feel when we
got up plays in the garret. If Daisy would only take the daughter's
part it would be so complete; for with you and Josie I am hardly
acting, it is all so real.'

'Especially the hospital scene, where you find the wounded son.
Why, mother, do you know when we did that at last rehearsal my
face was wet with real tears as you cried over me. It will bring
down the house; but don't forget to wipe 'em off, or I shall sneeze,'
said Demi, laughing at the recollection of his mother's hit.

'I won't; but it almost broke my heart to see you so pale and
dreadful. I hope there will never he another war in my time, for I
should have to let you go; and I never want to live through the
same experience we had with father.' 'Don't you think Alice does
the part better than Daisy would? Daisy hasn't a bit of the actress
in her, and Alice puts llPe into the dullest words she speaks. I think
the Marquise is just perfect in our piece,' said Demi, strolling
about the room as if the warmth of the fire sent a sudden colour to
his face.

'So do I. She is a dear girl, and I'm proud and fond of her. Where is
she tonight?'

'Pegging away at her Greek, I suppose. She usually is in the
evening. More's the pity,' added Demi, in a low tone, as he stared
intently at the book-case, though he couldn't read a title.

'Now, there is a girl after my own heart. Pretty, well-bred,
well-educated, and yet domestic, a real companion as well as
help-meet for some good and intelligent man. I hope she will find
one.'

'So do I,' muttered Demi.

Mrs Meg had taken up her work again, and was surveying a
half-finished buttonhole with so much interest that her son's face
escaped her eye. He shed a beaming smile upon the rows of poets,
as if even in their glass prison they could sympathize and rejoice
with him at the first rosy dawn of the great passion which they
knew so well. But Demi was a wise youth, and never leaped before
looking carefully. He hardly knew his own heart yet, and was
contented to wait till the sentiment, the fluttering of those folded
wings he began to feel, should escape from the chrysalis and be
ready to soar away in the sunshine to seek and claim its lovely
mate. He had said nothing; but the brown eyes were eloquent, and
there was an unconscious underplot to all the little plays he and
Alice Heath acted so well together. She was busy with her books,
bound to graduate with high honours, and he was trying to do the
same in that larger college open to all, and where each man has his
own prize to win or lose. Demi had nothing but himself to offer
and, being a modest youth, considered that a poor gift till he had
proved his power to earn his living, and the right to take a woman's
happiness into his keeping.

No one guessed that he had caught the fever except sharp-eyed
Josie, and she, having a wholesome fear of her brother   who could
be rather awful when she went too far   wisely contented herself
with watching him like a little cat, ready to pounce on the first
visible sign of weakness. Demi had taken to playing pensively
upon his flute after he was in his room for the night, making this
melodious friend his confidante, and breathing into it all the tender
hopes and fears that filled his heart. Mrs Meg, absorbed in
domestic affairs, and Daisy, who cared for no music but Nat's
violin, paid no heed to these chamber concerts, but Josie always
murmured to herself, with a naughty chuckle, 'Dick Swiveller is
thinking of his Sophy Wackles,' and bided her time to revenge
certain wrongs inflicted upon her by Demi, who always took
Daisy's side when she tried to curb the spirits of her unruly little
sister.

This evening she got her chance, and made the most of it. Mrs
Meg was just rounding off her buttonhole, and Demi still strolling
restlessly about the room, when a book was heard to slam in the
study, followed by an audible yawn and the appearance of the
student looking as if sleep and a desire for mischief were
struggling which should be master.

'I heard my name; have you been saying anything bad about mc?'
she demanded, perching on the arm of an easychair.

Her mother told the good news, over which Josie duly rejoiced,
and Demi received her congratulations with a benignant air which
made her feel that too much satisfaction was not good for him, and
incited her to put a thorn into his bed of roses at once.

'I caught something about the play just now, and I want to tell you
that I'm going to introduce a song into my part to liven it up a bit.
How would this do?' and seating herself at the piano she began to
sing to these words the air of 'Kathleen Mavourneen':

'Sweetest of maidens, oh, how can I tell

The love that transfigures the whole earth to me? The longing that
causes my bosom to swell,

When I dream of a life all devoted to thee?'

She got no further, for Demi, red with wrath, made a rush at her,
and the next moment a very agile young person was seen dodging
round tables and chairs with the future partner of Tiber & Co. in
hot pursuit. 'You monkey, how dare you meddle with my papers?'
cried the irate poet, making futile grabs at the saucy girl, who
skipped to and fro, waving a bit of paper tantalizingly before him.

'Didn't; found it in the big "Dic". Serves you right if you leave your
rubbish about. Don't you like my song? It's very pretty.'

'I'll teach you one that you won't like if you don't give me my
property.'

'Come and get it if you can'; and Josie vanished into the study to
have out her squabble in peace, for Mrs Meg was already saying:

'Children, children! don't quarrel.'

The paper was in the fire by the time Demi arrived and he at once
calmed down, seeing that the bone of contention was out of the
way.

'I'm glad it's burnt; I don't care for it, only some verse I was trying
to set to music for one of the girls. But I'll trouble you to let my
papers alone, or I shall take back the advice I gave mother tonight
about allowing you to act as much as you like.'

Josie was sobered at once by this dire threat, and in her most
wheedling tone begged to know what he had said. By way of
heaping coals of fire on her head he told her, and this diplomatic
performance secured him an ally on the spot.

'You dear old boy! I'll never tease you again though you moon and
spoon both day and night. If you stand by me, I'll stand by you and
never say a word. See here! I've got a note for you from Alice.
Won't that be a peace-offering and soothe your little feelings?'

Demi's eyes sparkled as Josie held up a paper cocked hat, but as he
knew what was probably in it, he took the wind out of Josie's sails,
and filled her with blank astonishment by saying carelessly:

'That's nothing; it's only to say whether she will go to the concert
with us tomorrow night. You can read it if you like.'

With the natural perversity of her sex Josie ceased to be curious
the moment she was told to read it, and meekly handed it over; but
she watched Demi as he calmly read the two lines it contained and
then threw it into the fire. 'Why~ Ja~K~ I thci~gh~ y~'~ ~i~~t~is
cyc~y ~crap the

"sweetest maid" touched. Don't you care for her?'

'Very much; we all do; but "mooning and spooning", as you
elegantly express it, is not in my line. My dear little girl, your plays
make you romantic, and because Alice and I act lovers sometimes
you take it into your silly head that we are really so. Don't waste
time hunting mares nests, but attend to your own affairs and leave
me to mine. I forgive you, but don't do it again; it's bad taste, and
tragedy queens don't romp.'

The last cut finished Josie; she humbly begged pardon and went
off to bed, while Demi soon followed, feeling that he had not only
settled himself but his too inquisitive little sister also. But if he had
seen her face as she listened to the soft wailing of his flute he
would not have been so sure, for she looked as cunning as a
magpie as she said, with a scornful sniff: 'Pooh, you can't deceive
me; I know Dick is serenading Sophy Wackles.'

Chapter 11 EMIL'S THANKSGIVING

The Brenda was scudding along with all sail set to catch the rising
wind, and everyone on board was rejoicing, for the long voyage
was drawing towards an end.

'Four weeks more, Mrs Hardy, and we'll give you a cup of tea such
as you never had before,' said second mate Hoffmann, as he paused
beside two ladies sitting in a sheltered corner of the deck.

'I shall be glad to get it, and still gladder to put my feet on solid
ground,' answered the elder lady, smiling; for our friend Emil was
a favourite, as well he might be, since he devoted himself to the
captain's wife and daughter, who were the only passengers on
board.

'So shall I, even if I have to wear a pair of shoes like Chinese
junks. I've tramped up and down the deck so much, I shall be
barefooted if we don't arrive soon,' laughed Mary, the daughter,
showing two shabby little boots as she glanced up at the
companion of these tramps, remembering gratefully how pleasant
he had made them.

'Don't think there are any small enough in China,' answered Emil,
with a sailor's ready gallantry, privately resolving to hunt up the
handsomest shoes he could find the moment he landed.

'I don't know what you would have done for exer cise, dear, if Mr
Hoffmann had not made you walk every day. This lazy life is bad
for young people, though it suits an old body like me well enough
in calm weather. Is this likely to be a gale, think ye?' added Mrs
Hardy, with an anxious glance at the west, where the sun was
setting redly.

'Only a capful of wind, ma'am, just enough to send us along lively,'
answered Emil, with a comprehensive glance aloft and alow.

'Please sing, Mr Hoffmann, it's so pleasant to have music at this
time. We shall miss it very much when we get ashore,' said Mary,
in a persuasive tone which would have won melody from a shark,
if such a thing were possible.

Emil had often blessed his one accomplishment during these
months, for it cheered the long days, and made the twilight hour
his happiest time, wind and weather permitting. So now he gladly
tuned his pipe, and leaning on the taffrail near the girl, watched the
brown locks blowing in the wind as he sang her favourite song:

'Give me freshening breeze, my boys,
A white and swelling sail,
A ship that cuts the dashing waves,
And weathers every gale.
     What lzfe is like a sailor's life,
So free, so bold, so brave?
His home the ocean's wide expanse,
A coral bed his grave.'

Just as the last notes of the clear, strong voice died away, Mrs
Hardy suddenly exclaimed: 'What's that?' Emil's quick eye saw at
once the little puff of smoke coming up a hatchway where no
smoke should be, and his heart seemed to stand still for an instant
as the dread word 'Fire!' flashed through his mind. Then he was
quite steady, and strolled away saying quietly:

'Smoking not allowed there, I'll go and stop it.' But the instant he
was out of sight his face changed, and he leaped down the
hatchway, thinking, with a queer smile on his lips: 'If we are afire,
shouldn't wonder if I did make a coral bed my grave!'

He was gone a few minutes, and when he came up, half stifled
with smoke, he was as white as a very brown man could be, but
calm and cool as he went to report to the captain.

'Fire in the hold, sir.'

'Don't frighten the women,' was Captain Hardy's first order; then
both be stirred themselves to discover how strong the treacherous
enemy was, and to rout it if possible.

The Brenda's cargo was a very combustible one, and in spite of the
streams of water poured into the hold it was soon evident that the
ship was doomed. Smoke began to ooze up between the planks
everywhere, and the rising gale soon fanned the smouldering fire
to flames that began to break out here and there, telling the
dreadful truth too plainly for anyone to hide. Mrs Hardy and Mary
bore the shock bravely when told to be ready to quit the ship at a
minute's notice; the boats were hastily prepared, and the men
worked with a will to batten down every loophole whence the fire
might escape. Soon the poor Brenda was a floating furnace, and
the order to 'Take to the boats!' came for all. The women first, of
course, and it was fortunate that, being a merchantman, there were
no more passengers on board, so there was no panic, and one after
the other the boats pushed off. That in which the women were
lingered near, for the brave captain would be the last to leave his
ship.

Emil stayed by him till ordered away, and reluctantly obeyed; but
it was well for him he went, for just as he had regained the boat,
rocking far below, half hidden by a cloud of smoke, a mast,
undermined by the fire now raging in the bowels of the ship, fell
with a crash, knocking Captain Hardy overboard. The boat soon
reached him as he floated out from the wreck, and Emil sprung
into the sea to rescue him, for he was wounded and senseless. This
accident made it necessary for the young man to take command,
and he at once ordered the men to pull for their lives, as an
explosion might occur at any moment.

The other boats were out of danger and all lingered to watch the
splendid yet awesome spectacle of the burning ship alone on the
wide sea, reddening the night and casting a lurid glare upon the
water, where floated the frail boats filled with pale faces, all
turned for a last look at the fated Brenda, slowly settling to her
watery grave. No one saw the end, however, for the gale soon
swept the watchers far away and separated them, some never to
meet again till the sea gives up its dead.

The boat whose fortunes we must follow was alone when dawn
came up, showing these survivors all the dangers of their situation.
Food and water had been put in, and such provision for comfort
and safety as time allowed; but it was evident that with a badly
wounded man, two women, and seven sailors, their supply would
not last long, and help was sorely needed. Their only hope was in
meeting a ship, although the gale, which had raged all night, had
blown them out of their course. To this hope all clung, and wiled
away the weary hours, watching the horizon and cheering one
another with prophecies of speedy rescue.

Second mate Hoffmann was very brave and helpful, though his
unexpected responsibility weighed heavily on his shoulders; for
the captain's state seemed desperate, the poor wife's grief wrung
his heart, and the blind confidence of the young girl in his power
to save them made him feel that no sign of doubt or fear must
lessen it. The men did their part readily now, but Emil knew that if
starvation and despair made brutes of them, his task might be a
terrible one. So he clutched

his courage with both handg, kept up a manly front, and spoke so
cheerily of their good chances, that all instinctively turned to him
for guidance and support.

The first day and night passed in comparative comfort, but when
the third came, things looked dark and hope began to fail. The
wounded man was delirious, the wife worn out with anxiety and
suspense, the girl weak for want of food, having put away half her
biscuit for her mother, and given her share of water to wet her
father's feverish lips. The sailors ceased rowing and sat grimly
waiting, openly reproaching their leader for not following their
advice, others demanding more food, all waxing dangerous as
privation and pain brought out the animal instincts lurking in them.
Emil did his best, but mortal man was helpless there, and he could
only turn his haggard face from the pitiless sky, that dropped no
rain for their thirst, to the boundless sea where no sail appeared to
gladden their longing eyes. All day he tried to cheer and comfort
them, while hunger gnawed, thirst parched, and growing fear lay
heavy at his heart. He told stories to the men, implored them to
bear up for the helpless women's sake, and promised rewards if
they would pull while they had strength to regain the lost route, as
nearly as he could make it out, and increase their chance of rescue.
He rigged an awning of sailcloth over the suffering man and
tended him like a son, comforted the wife, and tried to make the
pale girl forget herself, by singing every song he knew or
recounting his adventures by land and sea, till she smiled and took
heart; for all ended well.

The fourth day came and the supply of food and water was nearly
gone. Emil proposed to keep it for the sick man and the women,
but two of the men rebelled, demanding their share. Emil gave up
his as an example, and several of the good fellows followed it,
with the quiet heroism which so often crops up in rough but manly
natures. This shamed the others, and for another day an ominous
peace reigned in that little world of suffering and suspense. But
during the night, while Emil, worn out with fatigue, left the watch
to the most trustworthy sailor, that he might snatch an hour's rest,
these two men got at the stores and stole the last of the bread and
water, and the one bottle of brandy, which was carefully hoarded
to keep up their strength and make the brackish water drinkable.
Half mad with thirst, they drank greedily and by morning one was
in a stupor, from which he never woke; the other so crazed by the
strong stimulant, that when Emil tried to control him, he leaped
overboard and was lost. Horror-stricken by this terrible scene, the
other men were submissive henceforth? and the boat floated on
and on with its sad freight of suffering souls and bodies.

Another trial came to them that left all more despairing than
before. A sail appeared, and for a time a frenzy of joy ptevthled, to
be turned to bitterest disappointment when it passed by, too far
away to see the signals waved to them or hear the frantic cries for
help that rang across the sea. Emil's heart sank then, for the captain
seemed dying, and the women could not hold out much longer. He
kept up till night came; then in the darkness, broken only by the
feeble murmuring of the sick man, the whispered prayers of the
poor wife, the ceaseless swash of waves, Emil hid his face, and
had an hour of silent agony that aged him more than years of
happy life could have done. It was not the physical hardship that
daunted him, though want and weakness tortured him; it was his
dreadful powerlessness to conquer the cruel fate that seemed
hanging over them. The men he cared little for, since these perils
were but a part of the life they chose; but the master he loved, the
good woman who had been so kind to him, the sweet girl whose
winsome presence had made the long voyage so pleasant for them
all   if he could only save these dear and innocent creatures from a
cruel death, he felt that he could willingly give his life for them.

As he sat there with his head in his hands, bowed down by the first
great trial of his young life, the starless sky overhead, the restless
sea beneath, and all around him suffering, for which he had no
help, a soft sound broke the silence, and he listened like one in a
dream. It was Mary singing to her mother, who lay sobbing in her
arms, spent with this long anguish. A very faint and broken voice it
was, for the poor girl's lips were parched with thirst; but the loving
heart turned instinctively to the great Helper in this hour of
despair, and He heard her feeble cry. It was a sweet old hynm often
sung at Plumfield; and as he listened, all the happy past came back
so clearly that Emil forgot the bitter present, and was at home
again. His talk on the housetop with Aunt Jo seemed but yesterday,
and, with a pang of self-reproach, he thought:

'The scarlet strand! I must remember it, and do my duty to the end.
Steer straight, old boy; and if you can't come into port, go down
with all sail set.'

Then, as the soft voice crooned on to lull the weary woman to a
fitful sleep, Emil for a little while forgot his burden in a dream of
Plumfield. He saw them all, heard the familiar voices, felt the grip
of welcoming hands, and seemed to say to himself: 'Well, they
shall not be ashamed of me if I never see them any more.'

A sudden shout startled him from that brief rest, and a drop on his
forehead told him that the blessed rain had come at last, bringing
salvation with it; for thirst is harder to bear than hunger, heat, or
cold. Welcomed by cries of joy, all lifted up their parched lips,
held out their hands, and spread their garments to catch the great
drops that soon came pouring down to cool the sick man's fever,
quench the agony of thirst, and bring refreshment to every weary
body in the boat. All night it fell, all night the castaways revelled
in the saving shower, and took heart again, like dying plants
revived by heaven's dew. The clouds broke away at dawn, and
Emil sprung up, wonderfully braced and cheered by those hours of
silent gratitude f& this answer to their cry ~or help. But this was
not all; as his eye swept the horizon, clear against the rosy sky
shone the white sails of a ship, so near that they could see the
pennon at her mast-head and black figures moving on the deck.

One cry broke from all those eager throats, and rang across the sea,
as every man waved hat or handkerchief and the women stretched
imploring hands towards this great white angel of deliverance
coming down upon them as if the fresh wind filled every sail to
help her on.

No disappointment now; answering signals assured them of help;
and in the rapture of that moment the happy women fell on Emil's
neck, giving him his reward in tears and blessings as their grateful
hearts overflowed. He always said that was the proudest moment
of his life, as he stood there holding Mary in his arms; for the
brave girl, who had kept up so long, broke down then, and clung to
him half fainting; while her mother busied herself about the
invalid, who seemed to feel the joyful stir, and gave an order, as if
again on the deck of his lost ship.

It was soon over; and then all were safely aboard the good Urania,
homeward bound. Emil saw his friends in tender hands, his men
among their mates, and told the story of the wreck before he
thought of himself. The savoury odour of the soup, carried by to
the cabin for the ladies, reminded him that he was starving, and a
sudden stagger betrayed his weakness. He was instantly borne
away, to be half killed by kindness, and being fed, clothed, and
comforted, was left to rest. Just as the surgeon left the state-room,
he asked in his

 198 JO'S BOYS

broken voice: 'What day is this? My head is so confused, I've lost
my reckoning.'

'Thanksgiving Day, man! And we'll give you a regular New
England dinner, if you'll eat it,' answered the surgeon heartily.

But Emil was too spent to do anything, except lie still and give
thanks, more fervently and gratefully than ever before, for the
blessed gift of life, which was the sweeter for a sense of duty
faithfully performed.

Chapter 12 DAN'S CHRISTMAS

Where was Dan? In prison. Alas for Mrs Jo! how her heart would
have ached if she had known that while old Plum shone with
Christmas cheer her boy sat alone in his cell, trying to read the
little book she gave him, with eyes dimmed now and then by the
hot tears no physical suffering had ever wrung from him, and
longing with a homesick heart for all that he had lost.

Yes, Dan was in prison; but no cry for help from him as he faced
the terrible strait he was in with the dumb despair of an Indian at
the stake; for his own bosom sin had brought him there, and this
was to be the bitter lesson that tamed the lawless spirit and taught
him self-control.

The story of his downfall is soon told; for it came, as so often
happens, just when he felt unusually full of high hopes, good
resolutions, and dreams of a better life. On his journey he met a
pleasant young fellow, and naturally felt an interest in him, as
Blair was on his way to join his elder brothers on a ranch in
Kansas. Card-playing was going on in the smoking-car, and the lad
 for he was barely twenty   tired with the long journey, beguiled the
way with such partners as appeared, being full of spirits, and a
little intoxicated with the freedom of the West. Dan, true to his
promise, would not join, but watched with intense interest the
games that went on, and soon made up his mind that two of the
men were sharpers anxious to fleece the boy, who had imprudently
displayed a well-filled pocket-book. Dan always had a soft spot in
his heart for any younger, weaker creature whom he met, and
something about the lad reminded him of Teddy; so he kept an eye
on Blair, and warned him against his new friends.

Vainly, of course; for when all stopped overnight in one of the
great cities, Dan missed the boy from the hotel whither he had
taken him for safe-keeping; and learning who had come for him,
went to find him, calling himself a fool for his pains, yet unable to
leave the confiding boy to the dangers that surrounded him.

He found him gambling in a low place with the men, who were
bound to have his money; and by the look of relief on Blair's
anxious face when he saw him Dan knew without words that
things were going badly with him, and he saw the peril too late.

'I can't come yet   I've lost; it's not my money; I must get it back, or
I dare not face my brothers,' whispered the poor lad, when Dan
begged him to get away without further loss. Shame and fear made
him desperate; and he played on, sure that he could recover the
money confided to his care. Seeing Dan's resolute face, keen eye,
and travelled air, the sharpers were wary, played fair, and let the
boy win a little; but they had no mind to give up their prey, and
finding that Dan stood sentinel at the boy's back, an ominous
glance was exchanged between them, which meant:

'We must get this fellow out of the way.'

Dan saw it, and was on his guard; for he and Blair were strangers,
evil deeds are easily done in such places, and no tales told. But he
would not desert the boy, and still kept watch of every card till he
plainly detected false play, and boldly said so. High words passed,
Dan's indignation overcame his prudence; and when the cheat
refused to restore his plunder with insulting words and drawn
pistol, Dan's hot temper flashed out, and he knocked the man down
with a blow that sent him crashing head first against a stove, to roll
senseless and bleeding to the floor. A wild scene followed, but in
the midst of it Dan whispered to the boy: 'Get away, and hold your
tongue. Don't mind me.'

Frightened and bewildered, Blair quitted the city at once, leaving
Dan to pass the night in the lock-up, and a few days later to stand
in court charged with manslaughter; for the man was dead. Dan
had no friends, and having once briefly told the story, held his
peace, anxious to keep all knowledge of this sad affair from those
at home. He even concealed his name   giving that of David Kent,
as he had done several times before in emergencies. It was all over
very soon; but as there were extenuating circumstances his
sentence was a year in prison, with hard labour.

Dazed by the rapidity with which this horrible change in his life
came upon him, Dan did not fully realize it till the iron door
clanged behind him and he sat alone in a cell as narrow, cold, and
silent as a tomb. He knew that a word would bring Mr Laurie to
help and comfort him; but he could not bear to tell of this disgrace,
or see the sorrow and the shame it would cause the friends who
hoped so much for him.

'No,' he said, clenching his fist, 'I'll let them think me dead first. I
shall be if I am kept here long'; and he sprang up to pace the stone
floor like a caged lion, with a turmoil of wrath and grief, rebellion
and remorse, seething in heart and brain, till he felt as if he should
go mad and beat upon the walls that shut him away from the
liberty which was his life. For days he suffered terribly, then worn
out, sank into a black melancholy sadder to see than his
excitement.

The warden of this prison was a rough man who had won the ill
will of all by unnecessary harshness, but the chaplain was full of
sympathy, and did his hard duty faithfully and tenderly. He
laboured with poor Dan, but seemed to make no impression, and
was forced to wait till work had soothed the excited nerves and
captivity tamed the proud spirit that would suffer but not
complain.

Dan was put in the brush-shop, and feeling that activity was his
only salvation, worked with a feverish energy that soon won the
approval of the master and the envy of less skilful mates. Day after
day he sat in his place, watched by an armed overseer, forbidden
any but necessary words, no intercourse with the men beside him,
no change but from cell to shop, no exercise but the dreary
marches to and fro, each man's hand on the other's shoulder
keeping step with the dreary tramp so different from the ringing
tread of soldiers. Silent, gaunt, and grim, Dan did his daily task,
ate his bitter bread, and obeyed commands with a rebellious flash
of the eye, that made the warden say:

'That's a dangerous man. Watch him. He'll break out some day.'

There were others more dangerous than he, because older in crime
and ready for any desperate outbreak to change the monotony of
long sentences. These men soon divined Dan's mood, and in the
mysterious way convicts invent, managed to convey to him before
a month was over that plans were being made for a mutiny at the
first opportunity. Thanksgiving Day was one of the few chances
for them to speak together as they enjoyed an hour of freedom in
the prison yard. Then all would be settled and the rash attempt
made if possible, probably to end in bloodshed and defeat for
most, but liberty for a few. Dan had already planned his own
escape and bided his time, growing more and more moody, fierce,
and rebellious, as loss of liberty wore upon soul and body; for this
sudden change from his free, healthy life to such a narrow,
gloomy, and miserable one, could not but have a terrible effect
upon one of Dan's temperament and age.

He brooded over his ruined life, gave up all his happy hopes and
plans, felt that he could never face dear old Plumfield again, or
touch those friendly hands, with the stain of blood upon his own.
He did not care for the wretched man whom he had killed, for such
a life was better ended, he thought; but the disgrace of prison
would never be wiped out of his memory, though the cropped hair
would grow again, the grey suit easily be replaced, and the bolts
and bars left far behind.

'It's all over with me; I've spoilt my life, now let it go. I'll give up
the fight and get what pleasure I can anywhere, anyhow. They shall
think me dead and so still care for me, but never know what I am.
Poor Mother Bhaer! she tried to help me, but it's no use; the
firebrand can't be saved.'

And dropping his head in his hands as he sat on his low bed, Dan
would mourn over all he had lost in tearless misery, till merciful
sleep would comfort him with dreams of the happy days when the
boys played together, or those still later and happier ones when all
smiled on him, and Plumfield seemed to have gained a new and
curious charm.

There was one poor fellow in Dan's shop whose fate was harder
than his, for his sentence expired in the spring, but there was little
hope of his living till that time; and the coldest-hearted man pitied
poor Mason as he sat coughing his life away in that close place and
counting the weary days yet to pass before he could see his wife
and little child again. There was some hope that he might be
pardoned out, but he had no friends to bestir themselves in the
matter, and it was evident that the great Judge's pardon would soon
end his patient pain for ever.

Dan pitied him more than he dared to show, and this one tender
emotion in that dark time was like the little flower that sprung up
between the stones of the prison yard and saved the captive from
despair, in the beautiful old story. Dan helped Mason with his
work when he was too feeble to finish his task, and the grateful
look that thanked him was a ray of sunshine to cheer his cell when
he was alone. Mason envied the splendid health of his neighbour,
and mourned to see it wasting there. He was a peaceful soul and
tried, as far as a whispered word or warning glance could do it, to
deter Dan from joining the 'bad lot', as the rebels were called. But
having turned his face from the light, Dan found the downward
way easy, and took a grim satisfaction in the prospect of a general
outbreak during which he might revenge himself upon the
tyrannical warden, and strike a blow for his own liberty, feeling
that an hour of insurrection would be a welcome vent for the
pent-up passions that tormented him. He had tamed many a wild
animal, but his own lawless spirit was too much for him, till he
found the curb that made him master of himself.

The Sunday before Thanksgiving, as he sat in chapel, Dan
observed several guests in the seats reserved for them, and looked
anxiously to see if any familiar face was there; for he had a mortal
fear that someone from home would suddenly confront him. No,
all were strangers, and he soon forgot them in listening to the
chaplain's cheerful words, and the sad singing of many heavy
hearts. People often spoke to the convicts, so it caused no surprise
when, on being invited to address them, one of the ladies rose and
said she would tell them a little story; which announcement caused
the younger listeners to pack up their ears, and even the older ones
to look interested; for any change in their monotonous life was
welcome.

The speaker was a middle-aged woman in black, with a
sympathetic face, eyes full of compassion, and a voice that seemed
to warm the heart, because of certain motherly tones in it. She
reminded Dan of Mrs Jo, and he listened intently to every word,
feeling that each was meant for him, because by chance, they came
at the moment when he needed a softening memory to break up the
ice of despair which was blighting all the good impulses of his
nature.

It was a very simple little story, but it caught the men's attention at
once, being about two soldiers in a hospital during the late war,
both badly wounded in the right arm, and both anxious to save
these breadwin ners and go home unmaimed. One was patient,
docile, and cheerfully obeyed orders, even when told that the arm
must go. He submitted and after much suffering recovered,
grateful for life, though he could fight no more. The other rebelled,
would listen to no advice, and having delayed too long, died a
lingering death, bitterly regretting his folly when it was too late.
'Now, as all stories should have a little moral, let me tell you mine,'
added the lady, with a smile, as she looked at the row of young
men before her, sadly wondering what brought them there.

'This is a hospital for soldiers wounded in life's battle; here are
sick souls, weak wills, insane passions, blind consciences, all the
ills that come from broken laws, bringing their inevitable pain and
punishment with them, There is hope and help for every one, for
God's mercy is infinite and man's charity is great; but penitence
and submission must come before the cure is possible. Pay the
forfeit manfully, for it is just; but from the suffering and shame
wring new strength for a noblerlife. The scar will remain, but it is
better for a man to lose both arms than his soul; and these hard
years, instead of being lost, may be made the most precious of
your lives, if they teach you to rule yourselves. 0 friends, try to
outlive the bitter past, to wash the sin away, and begin anew. If not
for your own sakes, for that of the dear mothers, wives, and
children, who wait and hope so patiently for you. Remember them,
and do not let them love and long in vain. And if there be any here
so forlorn that they have no friend to care for them, never forget
the Father whose arms are always open to receive, forgive, and
comfort His prodigal sons, even at the eleventh hour.' There the
little sermon ended; but the preacher of it felt that her few hearty
words had not been uttered in vain, for one boy's head was down,
and several faces wore the softened look which told that a tender
memory was touched. Dan was forced to set his lips to keep them
steady, and drop his eyes to hide the sudden dew that dimmed
them when waiting, hoping friends were spoken of. He was glad to
be alone in his cell again, and sat thinking deeply, instead of trying
to forget himself in sleep. It seemed as if those words were just
what he needed to show him where he stood and how fateful the
next few days might be to him. Should he join the 'bad lot', and
perhaps add another crime to the one already committed, lengthen
the sentence already so terrible to bear, deliberately turn his back
on all that was good, and mar the future that might yet be
redeemed? Or should he, like the wiser man in the story, submit,
bear the just punishment, try to be better for it; and though the scar
would remain, it might serve as a reminder of a battle not wholly
lost, since he had saved his soul though innocence was gone? Then
he would dare go home, perhaps, confess, and find fresh strength
in the pity and consolation of those who never gave him up.

Good and evil fought for Dan that night as did the angel and the
devil for Sintram, and it was hard to tell whether lawless nature or
loving heart would conquer. Remorse and resentment, shame and
sorrow, pride and passion, made a battle-field of that narrow cell,
and the poor fellow felt as if he had fiercer enemies to fight now
than any he had met in all his wanderings. A little thing turned the
scale, as it so often does in these mysterious hearts of ours, and a
touch of sympathy helped Dan decide the course which would
bless or ban his life.

In the dark hour before the dawn, as he lay wakeful on his bed, a
ray of light shone through the bars, the bolts turned softly, and a
man came in. It was the good chaplain, led by the same instinct
that brings a mother to her sick child's pillow; for long experience
as nurse of souls had taught him to see the signs of hope in the
hard faces about him, and to know when the moment came for a
helpful word and the cordial of sincere prayer that brings such
comfort and healing to tried and troubled hearts. He had been to
Dan before at unexpected hours, but always found him sullen,
indifferent, or rebellious, and had gone away to patiently bide his
time. Now it had come; a look of relief was in the prisoner's face
as the light shone on it, and the sound of a human voice was
strangely comfortable after listening to the whispers of the
passions, doubts, and fears which had haunted the cell for hours,
dismaying Dan by their power, and showing him how much he
needed help to fight the good fight, since he had no armour of his
own.

'Kent, poor Mason has gone. He left a message for you, and I felt
impelled to come and give it now, because I think you were
touched by what we heard today, and in need of the help Mason
tried to give you,' said the chaplain, taking the one seat and fixing
his kind eyes on the grim figure in the bed.

'Thank you, sir, I'd like to hear it,' was all Dan's answer; but he
forgot himself in pity for the poor fellow dead in prison, with no
last look at wife or child. begged me to say these words: "Tell him
not to do it, but to hold on, do his best, and when his time is out go
right to Mary, and she'll make him welcome for my sake. He's got
no friends in these parts and will feel lonesome, but a woman's
always safe and comfortable when a fellow's down on his luck.
Give him my love and good-bye for he was kind to me, and God
will bless him for it." Then he died quietly, and tomorrow will go
home with God's pardon, since man's came too late.'

Dan said nothing, but laid his arm across his face and lay quite
still. Seeing that the pathetic little message had done its work even
better than he hoped, the chaplain went on, unconscious how
soothing his paternal voice was to the poor prisoner who longed to
'go home', but felt he had forfeited the right.

'I hope you won't disappoint this humble friend whose last thought
was for you. I know that there is trouble brewing, and fear that you
may be tempted to lend a hand on the wrong side. Don't do it, for
the plot will not succeed   it never does   and it would be a pity to
spoil your record which is fair so far. Keep up your courage, my
son, and go out at the year's end better, not worse, for this hard
experience. Remember a grateful woman waits to welcome and
thank you if you have no friends of your own; if you have, do your
best for their sake, and let us ask God to help you as Heonlycan.'

Then waiting for no answer the good man prayed heartily, and Dan
listened as he never had before; for the lonely hour, the dying
message, the sudden uprising of his better self, made it seem as if
some kind angel had come to save and comfort him. After that
night there was a change in Dan, though no one knew it but the
chaplain; for to all the rest he was the same silent, stern, unsocial
fellow as before, and turning his back on the bad and the good
alike, found his only pleasure in the books his friend brought him.
Slowly, as the steadfast drop wears away the rock, the patient
kindness of this man won Dan's confidence, and led by him he
began to climb out of the Valley of Humiliation towards the
mountains, whence, through the clouds, one can catch glimpses of
the Celestial City whither all true pilgrims sooner or later turn
their wistful eyes and stumbling feet. There were many
back-slidings, many struggles with Giant Despair and fiery
Apollyon, many heavy hours when life did not seem worth living
and Mason's escape the only hope. But through all, the grasp of a
friendly hand, the sound of a brother's voice, the unquenchable
desire to atone for the past by a better future, and win the right to
see home again, kept poor Dan to his great task as the old year
drew to its end, and the new waited to turn another leaf in the book
whose hardest lesson he was learning now.

At Christmas he yearned so for Plumfield that he devised a way to
send a word of greeting to cheer their anxious hearts, and comfort
his own. He wrote to Mary Mason, who lived in another State,
asking her to mail the letter he enclosed. In it he merely said he
was well and busy, had given up the farm, and had other plans
which he would tell later; would not be home before autumn
probably, nor write often, but was all right, and sent love and
merry Christmas to everyone.

Then he took up his solitary life again, and tried to pay his forfeit
manfully.

Chapter 13 NAT'S NEW YEAR

'I don't expect to hear from Emil yet, and Nat writes regularly, but
where is Dan? Only two or three postals since he went. Such an
energetic fellow as he is could buy up all the farms in Kansas by
this time,' said Mrs Jo one morning when the mail came in and no
card or envelope bore Dan's dashing hand.

'He never writes often, you know, but does his work and then
comes home. Months and years seem to mean little to him, and he
is probably prospecting in the wilderness, forgetful of time,'
answered Mr Bhaer, deep in one of Nat's long letters from Leipzig.

'But he promised he would let me know how he got on, and Dan
keeps his word if he can. I'm afraid something has happened to
him'; and Mrs Jo comforted herself by patting Don's head, as he
came at the sound of his master's name to look at her with eyes
almost human in their wistful intelligence.

'Don't worry, Mum dear, nothing ever happens to the old fellow.
He'll turn up all right, and come stalking in some day with a
gold-mine in one pocket and a prairie in the other, as jolly as a
grig,' said Ted, who was in no haste to deliver Octoo to her rightful
owner.

'Perhaps he has gone to Montana and given up the farm plan. He
seemed to like Indians best, I thought'; and Rob went to help his
mother with her pile of letters and his cheerful suggestions.

'I hope so, it would suit him best. But I am sure he would have told
us his change of plan and sent for some money to work with. No, I
feel in my prophetic bones that something is wrong,' said Mrs Jo,
looking as solemn as Fate in a breakfast-cap.

'Then we shall hear; ill news always travels fast. Don't borrow
trouble, Jo, but hear how well Nat is getting on. I'd no idea the boy
would care for anything but music. My good friend Baumgarten
has launched him well, and it will do him good if he lose not his
head. A good lad, but new to the world, and Leipzig is full of
snares for the unwary. Gott be with him!'

The Professor read Nat's enthusiastic account of certain literary
and musical parties he had been to, the splendours of the opera, the
kindness of his new friends, the delight of studying under such a
master as Bergmann, his hopes of rapid gain, and his great
gratitude to those who had opened this enchanted world to him.

'That, now, is satisfactory and comfortable. I felt that Nat had
unsuspected power in him before he went away; he was so manly
and full of excellent plans,' said Mrs Jo, in a satisfied tone.

'We shall see. He will doubtless get his lesson and be the better for
it. That comes to us all in our young days. I hope it will not be too
hard for our good Jungling,' answered the Professor, with a wise
smile, remembering his own student life in Germany.

He was right; and Nat was already getting his lesson in life with a
rapidity which would have astonished his friends at home. The
manliness over which Mrs Jo rejoiced was developing in
unexpected ways, and quiet Nat had plunged into the more
harmless dissipations of the gay city with all the ardour of an
inexperienced youth taking his first sip of pleasure. The entire
freedom and sense of independence was delicious, for many
benefits began to burden him, and he longed to stand on his own
legs and make his own way. No one knew his past here; and with a
well-stocked wardrobe, a handsome sum at his banker's, and the
best teacher in Leipzig, he made his debut as a musical young
gentleman, presented by the much-respected Professor Bhaer and
the wealthy Mr Laurence, who had many friends glad to throw
open their houses to his protg. Thanks to these introductions, his
fluent German, modest manners, and undeniable talent, the
stranger was cordially welcomed, and launched at once into a
circle which many an ambitious young man strove in vain to enter.

All this rather turned Nat's head; and as he sat in the brilliant
opera-house, chatted among the ladies at some select coffee-party,
or whisked an eminent professor's amiable daughter down the
room, trying to imagine she was Daisy, he often asked himself if
this gay fellow could be the poor homeless little Street musician
who once stood waiting in the rain at the gates of Plumfield. His
heart was true, his impulses good, and his ambitions high; but the
weak side of his nature came uppermost here; vanity led him
astray, pleasure intoxicated him, and for a time he forgot
everything but the delights of this new and charming life. Without
meaning to deceive, he allowed people to imagine him a youth of
good family and prospects; he boasted a little of Mr Laurie's
wealth and influence, of Professor Bhaer's eminence, and the
flourishing college at which he himself had been educated. Mrs Jo
was introduced to the sentimental Fr uleins who read her books,
and the charms and virtues of his own dear Mdchen confided to
sympathetic mammas. All these boyish boastings and innocent
vanities were duly circulated among the gossips, and his
importance much increased thereby, to his surprise and
gratification, as well as some shame.

But they bore fruit that was bitter in the end; for, finding that he
was considered one of the upper class, it very soon became
impossible for him to live in the humble quarters he had chosen, or
to lead the studious, quiet life planned for him. He met other
students, young officers, and gay fellows of all sorts, and was
flattered at being welcomed among them; though it was a costly
pleasure, and often left a thorn of regret to vex his honest
conscience. He was tempted to take better rooms in a more
fashionable street, leaving good Frau Tetzel to lament his loss, and
his artist neighbour, Frulein Vogelstein, to shake her grey ringlets
and predict his return, a sadder and a wiser man.

The sum placed at his disposal for expenses and such simple
pleasures as his busy life could command seemed a fortune to Nat,
though it was smaller than generous Mr Laurie first proposed.
Professor Bhaer wisely counselled prudence, as Nat was unused to
the care of money, and the good man knew the temptations that a
well-filled purse makes possible at this pleasure-loving age. So
Nat enjoyed his handsome little apartment immensely, and
insensibly let many unaccustomed luxuries creep in. He loved his
music and never missed a lesson; but the hours he should have
spent in patient practice were too often wasted at theatre, ball,
beer-garden, or club   doing no harm beyond that waste of precious
time, and money not his own; for he had no vices, and took his
recreation like a gentleman, so far. But slowly a change for the
worse was beginning to show itself, and he felt it. These first steps
along the flowery road were downward, not upward; and the
constant sense of disloyalty which soon began to haunt him made
Nat feel, in the few quiet hours he gave himself, that all was not
well with him, spite of the happy whirl in which he lived.

'Another month, and then I will be steady,' he said more than once,
trying to excuse the delay by the fact that all was new to him, that
his friends at home wished him to be happy, and that society was
giving him the polish he needed. But as each month slipped away
it grew harder to escape; he was inevitably drawn on, and it was so
easy to drift with the tide that he deferred the evil day as long as
possible. Winter festivities followed the more wholesome summer
pleasures, and Nat found them more costly; for the hospitable
ladies expected some return from the stranger; and carriages,
bouquets, theatre tickets, and all the little expenses a young man
cannot escape at such times, told heavily on the purse which
seemed bottomless at first. Taking Mr Laurie for his model, Nat
became quite a gallant, and was universally liked; for through all
the newly acquired airs and graces the genuine honesty and
simplicity of his character plainly shone, winning confidence and
affection from all who knew him. musical daughter   well-born but
poor, and very anxious to marry the aforesaid daughter to some
wealthy man. Nat's little fictions concerning his prospects and
friends charmed the gndige Frau as much as his music and
devoted manners did the sentimental Minna. Their quiet parlour
seemed homelike and restful to Nat, when tired of gayer scenes;
and the motherly interest of the elder lady was sweet and
comfortable to him; while the tender blue eyes of the pretty girl
were always so full of welcome when he came, of regret when he
left, and of admiration when he played to her, that he found it
impossible to keep away from this attractive spot. He meant no
harm, and feared no danger, having confided to the Frau Mamma
that he was betrothed; so he continued to call, little dreaming what
ambitious hopes the old lady cherished, nor the peril there was in
receiving the adoration of a romantic German girl, till it was too
late to spare her pain and himself great regret.

Of course some inkling of these new and agreeable experiences
got into the voluminous letters he never was too gay, too busy, or
too tired to write each week; and while Daisy rejoiced over his
happiness and success, and the boys laughed at the idea of 'old
Chirper coming out as a society man', the elders looked sober, and
said among themselves:

'He is going too fast; he must have a word of warning, or trouble
may come.'

But Mr Laurie said: 'Oh, let him have his fling; he's been
dependent and repressed long enough. He can't go far with the
money he has, and I've no fear of his getting into debt. He's too
timid and too honest to be reckless. It is his first taste of freedom;
let him enjoy it, and he'll work the better by and by; I know   and
I'm sure I'm right.'

So the warnings were very gentle, and the good people waited
anxiously to hear more of hard study, and less of 'splendid times'.
Daisy sometimes wondered, with a pang of her faithful heart, if
one of the charming Minnas, Hildegardes, and Lottchens
mentioned were not stealing her Nat away from her; but she never
asked, always wrote calmly and cheerfully, and looked in vain for
any hint of change in the letters that were worn out with much
reading.

Month after month slipped away, till the holidays came with gifts,
good wishes, and brilliant festivities. Nat expected to enjoy
himself very much, and did at first; for a German Christmas is a
spectacle worth seeing. I~ut he paid dearly for the abandon with
which he threw himself into the gaieties of that memorable week;
and on New Year's Day the reckoning came. It seemed as if some
malicious fairy had prepared the surprises that arrived, so
unwelcome were they, so magical the change they wrought,
turning his happy world into a scene of desolation and despair as
suddenly as a transformation at the pantomime.

The first came in the morning when, duly armed with costly
bouquets and bon-bons, he went to thank Minna and her mother
for the braces embroidered with forget-me-nots and the silk socks
knit by the old lady's nimble fingers, which he had found upon his
table that day. The Frau Mamma received him graciously; but
when he asked for the daughter the good lady frankly demanded
what his intentions were, adding that certain gossip which had
reached her ear made it necessary for him to declare himself or
come no more, as Minna's peace must not be compromised.

A more panic-stricken youth was seldom seen than Nat as he
received this unexpected demand. He saw too late that his
American style of gallantry had deceived the artless girl, and might
be used with terrible effect by the artful mother, if she chose to do
it. Nothing but the truth could save him, and he had the honour and
honesty to tell it faithfully. A sad scene followed; for Nat was
obliged to strip off his fictitious splendour, confess himself only a
poor student, and humbly ask pardon for the thoughtless freedom
with which he had enjoyed their too confiding hospitality. If he
had any doubts of Frau Schomburg's motives and desires, they
were speedily set at rest by the frankness with which she showed
her disappointment, the vigour with which she scolded him, and
the scorn with which she cast him off when her splendid castles in
the air collapsed.

The sincerity of Nat's penitence softened her a little and she
consented to a farewell word with Minna, who had listened at the
keyhole, and was produced drenched in tears, to fall on Nat's
bosom, crying: 'Ah, thou dear one, never can I forget thee, though
my heart is broken!'

This was worse than the scolding; for the stout lady also wept, and
it was only after much German gush and twaddle that he escaped,
feeling like another Werther; while the deserted Lotte consoled
herself self with the bonbons, her mother with the more valuable
gifts.

The second surprise arrived as he dined with Professor
Baumgarten. His appetite had been effectually taken away by the
scene of the morning, and his spirits received another damper
when a fellow student cheerfully informed him that he was about
to go to America, and should make it his agreeable duty to call on
the 'lieber Herr Professor Bhaer', to tell him how gaily his protg
was disporting himself at Leipzig. Nat's heart died within him as
he imagined the effect these glowing tales would have at
Plumfield   not that he had wilfully deceived them, but in his
letters many things were left untold; and when Carlsen added, with
a friendly wink, that he would merely hint at the coming betrothal
of the fair Minna and his 'heart's friend', Nat found himself
devoutly hoping that this other inconvenient heart's friend might
go to the bottom of the sea before he reached Plumfield to blast all
his hopes by these tales of a mis-spent winter. Collecting his wits,
he cautioned Carlsen with what he flattered himself was
Mephistophelian art, and gave him such confused directions that it
would be a miracle if he ever found Professor Bhaer. But the
dinner was spoilt for Nat, and he got away as soon as possible, to
wander disconsolately about the streets, with no heart for the
theatre or the supper he was to share with some gay comrades
afterwards. He comforted himself a little by giving aims to sundry
beggars, making two children happy with gilded gingerbread, and
drinking a lonely glass of beer, in which he toasted his Daisy and
wished himself a better year than the last had been.

Going home at length, he found a third surprise awaiting him in
the shower of bills which had descended upon him like a
snowstorm, burying him in an avalanche of remorse, despair, and
self-disgust. These bills were so many and so large that he was
startled and dismayed; for, as Mr Bhaer wisely pre dicted, he knew
little about the value of money. It would take every dollar at the
bankers to pay them all at once, and leave him penniless for the
next six months, unless he wrote home for more. He would rather
starve than do that; and his first impulse was to seek help at the
gaming-table, whither his new friends had often tempted him. But
he had promised Mr Bhaer to resist what then had seemed an
impossible temptation; and now he would not add another fault to
the list already so long. Borrow he would not, nor beg. What could
he do? For these appalling bills must be paid, and the lessons go
on; or his journey was an ignominious failure. But he must live
meantime. And how? Bowed down with remorse for the folly of
these months, he saw too late whither he was drifting, and for
hours paced up and down his pretty rooms, floundering in a Slough
of Despond, with no helping hand to pull him out   at least he
thought so till letters were brought in, and among fresh bills lay
one well-worn envelope with an American stamp in the corner.

Ah, how welcome it was! how eagerly he read the long pages full
of affectionate wishes from all at home! For everyone had sent a
line, and as each familiar name appeared, his eyes grew dimmer
and dimmer till, as he read the last   'God bless my boy! Mother
Bhaer'   he broke down; and laying his head on his arms, blistered
the paper with a rain of tears that eased his heart and washed away
the boyish sins that now lay so heavy on his conscience.

'Dear people, how they love and trust me! And how bitterly they
would be disappointed if they knew what a fool I've been! I'll
fiddle in the streets again before I'll ask for help from them!' cried
Nat, brushing away the tears of which he was ashamed, although
he felt the good they had done.

Now he seemed to see more clearly what to do; for the helping
hand had been stretched across the sea, and Love, the dear
Evangelist, had lifted him out of the slough and shown him the
narrow gate, beyond which deliverance lay. When the letter had
been reread, and one corner where a daisy was painted,
passionately kissed, Nat felt strong enough to face the worst and
conquer it. Every bill should be paid, every salable thing of his
own sold, these costly rooms given up; and once back with thrifty
Frau Tetzel, he would find work of some sort by which to support
himself, as many another student did. He must give up the new
friends, turn his back on the gay life, cease to be a butterfly, and
take his place among the grubs. It was the only honest thing to do,
but very hard for the poor fellow to crush his little vanities,
renounce the delights so dear to the young, own his folly, and step
down from his pedestal to be pitied, laughed at, and forgotten.

It took all Nat's pride and courage to do this, for his was a sensitive
nature; esteem was very precious to him, failure very bitter, and
nothing but the inborn contempt for meanness and deceit kept him
from asking help or trying to hide his need by some dishonest
device. As he sat alone that night, Mr Bhaer's words came back to
him with curious clearness, and he saw himself a boy again at
Plumfield, punishing his teacher as a lesson to himself, when
timidity had made him lie.

'He shall not suffer for me again, and I won't be a sneak if I am a
fool. I'll go and tell Professor Baum- garten all about it and ask his
advice. I'd rather face a loaded cannon; but it must be done. Then
I'll sell out, pay my debts, and go back where I belong. Better be an
honest pauper than a jackdaw among peacocks'; and Nat smiled in
the midst of his trouble, as he looked about him at the little
elegancies of his room, remembering what he came from.

He kept his word manfully, and was much comforted to find that
his experience was an old story to the professor, who approved his
plan, thinking wisely that the discipline would be good for him,
and was very kind in offering help and promising to keep the
secret of his folly from his friend Bhaer till Nat had redeemed
himself.

The first week of the new year was spent by our prodigal in
carrying out his plan with penitent dispatch, and his birthday found
him alone in the little room high up at Frau Tetzel's, with nothing
of his former splendour, but sundry unsalable keepsakes from the
buxom maidens, who mourned his absence deeply. His male
friends had ridiculed, pitied, and soon left him alone, with one or
two exceptions, who offered their purses generously and promised
to stand by him. He was lonely and heavy-hearted, and sat
brooding over his small fire as he remembered the last New Year's
Day at Plumfield, when at this hour he was dancing with his Daisy.

A tap at the door roused him, and with a careless 'Herein', he
waited to see who had climbed so far for his sake. It was the good
Frau proudly bearing a tray, on which stood a bottle of wine and an
astonishing cake bedecked with sugar-plums of every hue, and
crowned with candles. Frulein Vogelstein followed, embracing a
blooming rose-tree, above which her grey curls waved and her
friendly face beamed joyfully as she cried:

'Dear Herr Blak, we bring you greetings and a little gift or two in
honour of this ever-to-be-remembered day. Best wishes! and may
the new year bloom for you as beautifully as we your heart-warm
friends desire.'

'Yes, yes, in truth we do, dear Herr,' added Frau Tetzel. 'Eat of this
with-joy-made Kuchen, and drink to the health of the far-away
beloved ones in the good wine.'

Amused, yet touched by the kindness of the good souls, Nat
thanked them both, and made them stay to enjoy the humble feast
with him. This they gladly did, being motherly women full of pity
for the dear youth, whose straits they knew, and having substantial
help to offer, as well as kind words and creature comforts.

Frau Tetzel, with some hesitation, mentioned a friend of hers who,
forced by illness to leave his place in the orchestra of a second-rate
theatre, would gladly offer it to Nat, if he could accept so humble a
position. Blushing and toying with the roses like a shy girl, good
old Vogelstein asked if in his leisure moments he could give
English lessons in the young ladies' school where she taught
painting, adding that a small but certain salary would be paid him.

Gratefully Nat accepted both offers, finding it less humiliating to
be helped by women than by friends of his own sex. This work
would support him in a frugal way, and certain musical drudgery
promised by his master assured his own teaching. Delighted with
the success of their little plot, these friendly neighbours left him
with cheery words, warm hand-grasps, and faces beaming with
feminine satisfaction at the hearty kiss Nat put on each faded
cheek, as the only return he could make for all their helpful
kindness.

It was strange how much brighter the world looked after that; for
hope was a better cordial than the wine, and good resolutions
bloomed as freshly as the little rose-tree that filled the room with
fragrance, as Nat woke the echoes with the dear old airs, finding
now as always his best comforter in music, to whom henceforth he
swore to be a more loyal subject.

Chapter 14 PLAYS AT PLUMFIELD

As it is as impossible for the humble historian of the March family
to write a story without theatricals in it as for our dear Miss Yonge
to get on with less than twelve or fourteen children in her
interesting tales, we will accept the fact, and at once cheer
ourselves after the last afflicting events, by proceeding to the
Christmas plays at Plumfield; for they influence the fate of several
of our characters, and cannot well be skipped.

When the college was built Mr Laurie added a charming little
theatre which not only served for plays, but declamations, lectures,
and concerts. The drop-curtain displayed Apollo with the Muses
grouped about him; and as a compliment to the donor of the hall
the artist had given the god a decided resemblance to our friend,
which was considered a superb joke by everyone else. Home talent
furnished stars, stock company, orchestra, and scene painter; and
astonishing performances were given on this pretty little stage.

Mrs Jo had been trying for some time to produce a play which
should be an improvement upon the adaptations from the French
then in vogue, curious mixtures of fine toilettes, false sentiment,
and feeble wit, with no touch of nature to redeem them. It was
easy to plan plays full of noble speeches and thrilling situations,
but very hard to write them; so she contented herself with a few
scenes of humble life in which the comic and pathetic were
mingled; and as she fitted her characters to her actors, she hoped
the little venture would prove that truth and simplicity had not
entirely lost their power to charm. Mr Laurie helped her, and they
called themselves Beaumont and Fletcher, enjoying their joint
labour very much; for Beaumont's knowledge of dramatic art was
of great use in curbing Fletcher's too-aspiring pen, and they
flattered themselves that they had produced a neat and effective bit
of work as an experiment.

All was ready now; and Christmas Day was much enlivened by last
rehearsals, the panics of timid actors, the scramble for forgotten
properties, and the decoration of the theatre. Evergreen and holly
from the woods, blooming plants from the hothouse on Parnassus,
and flags of all nations made it very gay that night in honour of the
guests who were coming, chief among them, Miss Cameron, who
kept her promise faithfully. The orchestra tuned their instruments
with unusual care, the scene-shifters set their stage with lavish
elegance, the prompter heroically took his seat in the stifling nook
provided for him, and the actors dressed with trembling hands that
dropped the pins, and perspiring brows whereon the powder
wouldn't stick. Beaumont and Fletcher were everywhere, feeling
that their literary reputation was at stake; for sundry friendly critics
were invited, and reporters, like mosquitoes, cannot be excluded
from any earthly scene, be it a great man's death-bed or a dime
museum.

'Has she come?' was the question asked by every tongue behind the
curtain; and when Tom, who played an old man, endangered his
respectable legs among the footlights to peep, announced that he
saw Miss Cameron's handsome head in the place of honour, a thrill
pervaded the entire company, and Josie declared with an excited
gasp that she was going to have stage fright for the first time in her
life.

'I'll shake you if you do,' said Mrs Jo, who was in such a wild state
of dishevelment with her varied labours that she might have gone
on as Madge Wildlife, without an additional rag or crazy elf-lock.

'You'll have time to get your wits together while we do our piece.
We are old stagers and calm as clocks,' answered Demi, with a nod
towards Alice, ready in her pretty dress and all her properties at
hand.

But both clocks were going rather faster than usual, as heightened
colour, brilliant eyes, and a certain flutter under the laces and
velvet coat betrayed. They were to open the entertainment with a
gay little piece which they had played before and did remarkably
well. Alice was a tall girl, with dark hair and eyes, and a face
which intelligence, health, and a happy heart made beautiful. She
was looking her best now, for the brocades, plumes, and powder of
the Marquise became her stately figure; and Demi in his court suit,
with sword, three-cornered hat, and white wig, made as gallant a
Baron as one would wish to see. Josie was the maid, and looked
her part to the life, being as pretty, pert, and inquisitive as any
French soubrette. These three were all the characters; and the
success of the piece depended on the spirit and skill with which
the quickly changing moods of the quarrelsome lovers were given,
their witty speeches made to tell, and by- play suited to the courtly
period in which the scene was laid.

Few would have recognized sober John and studious Alice in the
dashing gentleman and coquettish lady, who kept the audience
laughing at their caprices; while they enjoyed the brilliant
costumes, and admired the ease and grace of the young actors.
Josie was a prominent figure in the plot, as she listened at
keyholes, peeped into notes, and popped in and out at all the most
inopportune moments, with her nose in the air, her hands in her
apron-pockets, and curiosity pervading her little figure from the
topmost bow of her jaunty cap to the red heels of her slippers. All
went smoothly; and the capricious Marquise, after tormenting the
devoted Baron to her heart's content, owned herself conquered in
the war of wits, and was just offering the hand he had fairly won,
when a crash startled them, and a heavily decorated side-scene
swayed forward, ready to fall upon Alice. Demi saw it and sprung
before her to catch and hold it up, standing like a modern Samson
with the wall of a house on his back. The danger was over in a
moment, and he was about to utter his last speech, when the
excited young scene-shifter, who had flown up a ladder to repair
the damage, leaned over to whisper 'All right', and release Demi
from his spread-eagle attitude: as he did so, a hammer slipped out
of his pocket, to fall upon the upturned face below, inflicting a
smart blow and literally knocking the Baron's part out of his head.

'A quick curtain,' robbed the audience of a pretty little scene not
down on the bill; for the Marquise flew to staunch the blood with a
cry of alarm: 'Oh! John, you are hurt! Lean on me'   which John
gladly did for a moment, being a trifle dazed yet quite able to
enjoy the tender touch of the hands busied about him and the
anxiety of the face so near his own; for both told him something
which he would have considered cheaply won by a rain of
hammers and the fall of the whole college on his head.

Nan was on the spot in a moment with the case that never left her
pocket; and the wound was neatly plastered up by the time Mrs Jo
arrived, demanding

tragically:

'Is he too much hurt to go on again? If he is, my play is lost!'

'I'm all the fitter for it, Aunty; for here's a real instead of a painted
wound. I'll be ready; don't worry about me.' And catching up his
wig, Demi was off, with only a very eloquent look of thanks to the
Marquise, who had spoilt her gloves for his sake, but did not seem
to mind it at all, though they reached above her elbows, and were
most expensive.

'How are your nerves, Fletcher?' asked Mr Laurie as they stood
together during the breathless minute before the last bell rings.

'About as calm as yours, Beaumont,' answered Mrs Jo,
gesticulating wildly to Mrs Meg to set her cap straight.

'Bear up, partner! I'll stand by you whatever comes!'

'I feel that it ought to go; for, though it's a mere trifle, a good deal
of honest work and truth have gone into it. Doesn't Meg look the
picture of a dear old country woman?'

She certainly did, as she sat in the farmhouse kitchen by a cheery
fire, rocking a cradle and darning stock- ings, as if she had done
nothing else all her life. Grey hair, skilfully drawn lines on the
forehead, and a plain gown, with cap, little shawl, and check
apron, changed her into a comfortable, motherly creature who
found favour the moment the curtain went up and discovered her
rocking, darning, and crooning an old song. In a short soliloquy
about Sam, her boy, who wanted to enlist; Dolly, her discontented
little daughter, who longed for city ease and pleasures; and poor
'Elizy', who had married badly, and came home to die, bequeathing
her baby to her mother, lest its bad father should claim it, the little
story was very simply opened, and made effective by the real
boiling of the kettle on the crane, the ticking of a tall clock, and
the appearance of a pair of blue worsted shoes which waved
fitfully in the air to the soft babble of a baby's voice. Those
shapeless little shoes won the first applause; and Mr Laurie,
forgetting elegance in satisfaction, whispered to his coadjutor:

'I thought the baby would fetch them!'

'If the dear thing won't squall in the wrong place, we are saved. But
it is risky. Be ready to catch it if all Meg's cuddlings prove in vain,'
answered Mrs Jo, adding, with a clutch at Mr Laurie's arm as a
haggard face appeared at the window:

'Here's Demi! I hope no one will recognize him when he comes on
as the son. I'll never forgive you for not doing the villain yourself.'

'Can't run the thing and act too. He's capitally made up, and likes a
bit of melodrama.'

'This scene ought to have come later; but I wanted to show that the
mother was the heroine as soon as possible. I'm tired of love-sick
girls and runaway wives. We'll prove that there's romance in old
women also. Now he's coming!'

And in slouched a degraded-looking man, shabby, unshaven, and
evil-eyed, trying to assume a masterful air as he dismayed the
tranquil old woman by demanding his child. A powerful scene
followed; and Mrs Meg surprised even those who knew her best by
the homely dignity with which she at first met the man she
dreaded; then, as he brutally pressed his claim, she pleaded with
trembling voice and hands to keep the little creature she had
promised the dying mother to protect; and when he turned to take
it by force, quite a thrill went through the house as the old woman
sprung to snatch it from the cradle, and holding it close, defied
him in God's name to tear it from that sacred refuge. It was really
well done; and the round of applause that greeted the fine tableau
of the indignant old woman, the rosy, blinking baby clinging to her
neck, and the daunted man who dared not execute his evil purpose
with such a defender for helpless innocence, told the excited
authors that their first scene was a hit.

The second was quieter, and introduced Josie as a bonny country
lass setting the supper-table in a bad humour. The pettish way in
which she slapped down the plates, hustled the cups, and cut the
big brown loaf, as she related her girlish trials and ambitions, was
capital. Mrs Jo kept her eye on Miss Cameron, and saw her nod
approval several times at some natural tone or gesture, some good
bit of by-play or a quick change of expression in the young face,
which was as variable as an April day. Her struggle with the
toasting-fork made much merriment; so did her con- tempt for the
brown sugar, and the relish with which she sweetened her irksome
duties by eating it; and when she sat, like Cinderella, on the hearth,
tearfully watching the flames dance on the homely room, a girlish
voice was heard to exclaim impulsively:

'Poor little thing! she ought to have some fun!'

The old woman enters; and mother and daughter have a pretty
scene, in which the latter coaxes and threatens, kisses and cries,
till she wins the reluctant consent of the former to visit a rich
relation in the city; and from being a little thunder-cloud Dolly
becomes bewitchingly gay and good, as soon as her wilful wish is
granted. The poor old soul has hardly recovered from this trial
when the son enters, in army blue, tells he has enlisted and must
go. That is a hard blow; but the patriotic mother bears it well, and
not till the thoughtless young folks have hastened away to tell their
good news elsewhere does she break down. Then the country
kitchen becomes pathetic as the old mother sits alone mourning
over her children, till the grey head is hidden in the hands as she
kneels down by the cradle to weep and pray, with only Baby to
comfort her fond and faithful heart.

Sniffs were audible all through the latter part of this scene; and
when the curtain fell, people were so busy wiping their eyes that
for a moment they forgot to applaud. That silent moment was more
flattering than noise; and as Mrs Jo wiped the real tears off her
sister's face, she said as solemnly as an unconscious dab of rouge
on her nose permitted:

'Meg, you have saved my play! Oh, why aren't you a real actress,
and I a real playwright?'

'Don't gush now, dear, but help me dress Josie; she's in such a
quiver of excitement, I can't manage her, and this is her best scene,
you know.'

So it was; for her aunt had written it especially for her, and little Jo
was happy in a gorgeous dress, with a train long enough to satisfy
her wildest dreams. The rich relation's parlour was in festival
array, and the country cousin sails in, looking back at her sweeping
flounces with such artless rapture that no one had the heart to
laugh at the pretty jay in borrowed plumes. She has confidences
with herself in the mirror, from which it is made evident that she
had discovered all is not gold that glitters, and has found greater
temptations than those a girlish love of pleasure, luxury, and
flattery bring her. She is sought by a rich lover; but her honest
heart resists the allurements he offers, and in its innocent
perplexity wishes 'mother' was there to comfort and counsel.

A gay little dance, in which Dora, Nan, Bess, and several of the
boys took part, made a good background for the humble figure of
the old woman in her widow's bonnet, rusty shawl, big umbrella,
and basket. Her nave astonishment, as she surveys the spectacle,
feels the curtains, and smooths her old gloves during the moment
she remains unseen, was very good; but Josie's unaffected start
when she sees her, and the cry: 'Why, there's mother!' was such a
hearty little bit of nature, it hardly needed the impatient tripping
over her train as she ran into the arms that seemed now to be her
nearest refuge.

The lover plays his part; and ripples of merriment greeted the old
woman's searching questions and blunt answers during the
interview which shows the girl how shallow his love is, and how
near she had been to ruining her life as bitterly as poor 'Elizy' did.
She gives her answer frankly, and when they are alone, looks from
her own bedizened self to the shabby dress, work-worn hands, and
tender face, crying with a repentant sob and kiss: 'Take me home,
mother, and keep me safe. I've had enough of this!'

'That will do you good, Maria; don't forget it,' said one lady to her
daughter as the curtain went down; and the girl answered: 'Well,
I'm sure I don't see why it's touching; but it is,' as she spread her
lace handkerchief to dry.

Tom and Nan came out strong in the next scene; for it was a ward
in an army hospital, and surgeon and nurse went from bed to bed,
feeling pulses, administering doses, and hearing complaints with
an energy and gravity which convulsed the audience. The tragic
element, never far from the comic at such times and places, came
in when, while they bandaged an arm, the doctor told the nurse
about an old woman who was searching through the hospital for
her son, after days and nights on battlefields, through ambulances,
and among scenes which would have killed most women.

'she will fli lirrc dircctly, ~nd I drc~i1 11cr coming, for I'm afraid
the poor lad who has just gone is her boy. I'd rather face a cannon
than these brave women, with their hope and courage and great
sorrow,' says the surgeon.

'Ah, these poor mothers break my heart!' adds the nurse, wiping
her eyes on her big apron; and with the words Mrs Meg came in.

There was the same dress, the basket and umbrella, the rustic
speech, the simple manners; but all were made pathetic by the
terrible experience which had changed the tranquil old woman to
that haggard figure with wild eyes, dusty feet, trembling hands,
and an expression of mingled anguish, resolution, and despair
which gave the homely figure a tragic dignity and power that
touched all hearts. A few broken words told the story of her vain
search, and then the sad quest began again. People held their
breath as, led by the nurse, she went from bed to bed, showing in
her face the alternations of hope, dread, and bitter disappointment
as each was passed. On a narrow cot was a long figure covered
with a sheet, and here she paused to lay one hand on her heart and
one on her eyes, as if to gather courage to look at the nameless
dead. Then she drew down the sheet, gave a long shivering sigh of
relief, saying softly:

'Not my son, thank God! but some mother's boy.' And stooping
down, she kissed the cold forehead tenderly.

Somebody sobbed there, and Miss Cameron shook two tears out of
her eyes, anxious to lose no look or gesture as the poor soul, nearly
spent with the long strain, struggled on down the long line. But her
search wa~ happily ended~ for, as if her voice had rou~d him from
his feverish sleep, a gaunt, wild-eyed man sat up in his bed, and
stretching his arms to her, cried in a voice that echoed through the
room:

'Mother, mother! I knew you'd come to me!'

She did go to him, with a cry of love and joy that thrilled every
listener, as she gathered him in her arms with the tears and prayers
and blessing such as only a fond and faithful old mother could
give.

The last scene was a cheerful contrast to this; for the country
kitchen was bright with Christmas cheer, the wounded hero, with
black patch and crutches well displayed, sat by the fire in the old
chair whose familiar creak was soothing to his ear; pretty Dolly
was stirring about, gaily trimming dresser, settle, high
chimney-piece, and old-fashioned cradle with mistletoe and holly;
while the mother rested beside her son, with that blessed baby on
her knee. Refreshed by a nap and nourishment, this young actor
now covered himself with glory by his ecstatic prancings,
incoherent remarks to the audience, and vain attempts to get to the
footlights, as he blinked approvingly at these brilliant toys. It was
good to see Mrs Meg pat him on the back, cuddle the fat legs out
of sight, and appease his vain longings with a lump of sugar, till
Baby embraced her with a grateful ardour that brought him a round
of applause all for his little self.

A sound of singing outside disturbs the happy family, and, after a
carol in the snowy moonlight, a flock of neighbours troop in with
Christmas gifts and greetings. Much by-play made this a lively
picture; for Sam's sweetheart hovered round him with a tenderness
the Marquise did not show the Baron; and Dolly had a pretty bit
under the mistletoe with her rustic adorer, who looked so like Ham
Peggotty in his cowhide boots, rough jacket, and dark beard and
wig, that no one would have recognized Ted but for the long legs,
which no extent of leather could disguise. It ended with a homely
feast, brought by the guests; and as they sat round the table
covered with doughnuts and cheese, pumpkin-pie, and other
delicacies, Sam rises on his crutches to propose the first toast, and
holding up his mug of cider, says, with a salute, and a choke in his
voice: 'Mother, God bless her!' All drink it stand- ing, Dolly with
her arm round the old woman's neck, as she hides her happy tears
on her daughter's breast; while the irrepressible baby beat
rapturously on the table with a spoon, and crowed audibly as the
curtain went down.

They had it up again in a jiffy to get a last look at the group about
that central figure, which was showered with bouquets, to the great
delight of the infant Roscius; till a fat rosebud hit him on the nose,
and produced the much-dreaded squall, which, fortunately, only
added to the fun at that moment.

'Well, that will do for a beginning,' said Beaumont, with a sigh of
relief, as the curtain descended for the last time, and the actors
scattered to dress for the closing piece.

'As an experiment, it is a success. Now we can venture to begin
our great American drama,' answered Mrs Jo, full of satisfaction
and grand ideas for the famous play   which, we may add, she did
not write that year, owing to various dramatic events in her own
family.

The Owisdark Marbles closed the entertainment, and, being
something new, proved amusing to this very indulgent audience.
The gods and goddesses on Parnassus were displayed in full
conclave; and, thanks to Mrs Amy's skill in draping and posing, the
white wigs and cotton-flannel robes were classically correct and
graceful, though sundry modern additions somewhat marred the
effect, while adding point to the showman's learned remarks. Mr
Laurie was Professor Owisdark in cap and gown; and, after a
high-flown introduction, he proceeded to exhibit and explain his
marbles. The first figure was a stately Minerva; but a second
glance produced a laugh, for the words

'Women's Rights' adorned her shield, a scroll bearing the motto
'Vote early and often' hung from the beak of the owl perched on
her lance, and a tiny pestle and mortar ornamented her helmet.
Attention was drawn to the firm mouth, the piercing eye, the
awe-inspiring brow, of the strong-minded woman of antiquity, and
some scathing remarks made upon the degeneracy of her modern
sisters who failed to do their duty. Mercury came next, and was
very fine in his airy attitude, though the winged legs quivered as if
it was difficult to keep the lively god in his place. His restless
nature was dilated upon, his mischievous freaks alluded to, and a
very bad character given to the immortal messenger-boy; which
delighted his friends and caused the marble nose of the victim to
curl visibly with scorn when derisive applause greeted a
particularly hard hit. A charming little Hebe stood next, pouring
nectar from a silver teapot into a blue china tea-cup. She also
pointed a moral; for the Professor explained that the nectar of old
was the beverage which cheers but does not inebriate, and
regretted that the excessive devotion of American women to this
classic brew proved so harmful, owing to the great development of
brain their culture produced. A touch at modern servants, in
contrast to this accomplished table-girl, made the statue's cheeks
glow under the chalk, and brought her a hearty round as the
audience recognized Dolly and the smart soubrette.

Jove in all his majesty followed, as he and his wife occupied the
central pedestals in the half-circle of immortals. A splendid
Jupiter, with hair well set up off the fine brow, ambrosial beard,
silver thunderbolts in one hand, and a well-worn ferule in the
other. A large stuffed eagle from the museum stood at his feet; and
the benign expression of his august countenance showed that he
was in a good humour   as well he might be, for he was paid some
handsome compliments upon his wise rule, the peaceful state of
his kingdom, and the brood of all-accomplished Pallases that
yearly issued from his mighty brain. Cheers greeted this and other
pleasant words, and caused the thunderer to bow his thanks; for
'Jove nods', as everyone knows, and flattery wins the heart of gods
and men.

Mrs Juno, with her peacocks, darning-needle, pen, and
cooking-spoon, did not get off so easily; for the Professor was
down on her with all manner of mirth-provoking accusations,
criticisms, and insults even. He alluded to her domestic infelicity,
her meddlesome disposition, sharp tongue, bad temper, and
jealousy, closing, however, with a tribute to her skill in caring for
the wounds and settling the quarrels of belligerent heroes, as well
as her love for youths in Olympus and on earth. Gales of laughter
greeted these hits, varied by hisses from some indignant boys, who
would not bear, even in joke, any disrespect to dear Mother Bhaer,
who, however, enjoyed it all immensely, as the twinkle in her eye
and the irrepressible pucker of her lips betrayed.

A jolly Bacchus astride of his cask took Vulcan's place, and
appeared to be very comfortable with a beer-mug in one hand, a
champagne bottle in the other, and a garland of grapes on his curly
head. He was the text of a short temperance lecture, aimed directly
at a row of smart young gentlemen who lined the walls of the
auditorium. George Cole was seen to dodge behind a pillar at one
point, Dolly nudged his neighbour at another, and there was
laughter all along the line as the Professor glared at them through
his big glasses, and dragged their bacchanalian orgies to the light
and held them up to scorn.

Seeing the execution he had done, the learned man turned to the
lovely Diana, who stood as white and still as the plaster stag beside
her, with sandals, bow, and crescent; quite perfect, and altogether
the best piece of statuary in the show. She was very tenderly
treated by the paternal critic who, merely alluding to her
confirmed spinsterhood, fondness for athletic sports, and oracular
powers, gave a graceful little exposition of true art and passed on
to the last figure.

This was Apollo in full fig, his curls skilfully arranged to hide a
well-whitened patch over the eye, his handsome legs correctly
poised, and his gifted fingers about to draw divine music from the
silvered gridiron which was his lyre. His divine attributes were
described, as well as his little follies and failings, among which
were his weakness for photography and flute-playing, his attempts
to run a newspaper, and his fondness for the society of the Muses;
which latter slap produced giggles and blushes among the
girl-graduates, and much mirth among the stricken youths; for
misery loves company, and after this they began to rally.

Then, with a ridiculous conclusion, the Professor bowed his
thanks; and after several recalls the curtain fell, but not quickly
enough to conceal Mercury, wildly waving his liberated legs, Hebe
dropping her teapot, Bacchus taking a lovely roll on his barrel, and
Mrs Juno rapping the impertinent Owlsdark on the head with
Jove's ruler.

While the audience filed out to supper in the hall, the stage was a
scene of dire confusion as gods and goddesses, farmers and barons,
maids and carpenters, congratulated one another on the success of
their labours. Assuming various costumes, actors and actresses
soon joined their guests, to sip bounteous draughts of praise with
their coffee, and cool their modest blushes with ice-cream. Mrs
Meg was a proud and happy woman when Miss Cameron came to
her as she sat by Josie, with Demi serving both, and said, so
cordially that it was impossible to doubt the sincerity of her
welcome words:

'Mrs Brooke, I no longer wonder where your children get their
talent. I make my compliments to the Baron and next summer you
must let me have little "Dolly" as a pupil when we are at the
beach.'

One can easily imagine how this offer was received, as well as the
friendly commendation bestowed by the same kind critic on the
work of Beaumont and Fletcher, who hastened to explain that this
trifle was only an attempt to make nature and art go hand in hand,
with little help from fine writing or imposing scenery. Everybody
was in the happiest mood, especially 'little Dolly', who danced like
a will-o'-the-wisp with light-footed Mercury and Apollo as he
promenaded with the Marquise on his arm, who seemed to have
left her coquetry in the green room with her rouge.

When all was over, Mrs Juno said to Jove, to whose arm she clung
as they trudged home along the snowy paths: 'Fritz dear, Christmas
is a good time for new resolutions, and I've made one never to be
impatient or fretful with my beloved husband again. I know I am,
though you won't own it; but Laurie's fun had some truth in it, and
I felt hit in a tender spot. Henceforth I am a model wife, else I
don't deserve the dearest, best man ever born'; and being in a
dramatic mood, Mrs Juno tenderly embraced her excellent Jove in
the moonlight, to the great amusement of sundry lingerers behind
them.

So all three plays might be considered successes, and that merry
Christmas night a memorable one in the March family; for Demi
got an unspoken question answered, Josie's fondest wish was
granted, and, thanks to Professor Owlsdark's jest, Mrs Jo made
Professor Bhaer's busy life quite a bed of roses by the keeping of
her resolution. A few days later she had her reward for this burst of
virtue in Dan's letter, which set her fears at rest and made her very
happy, though she was unable to tell him so, because he sent her
no address.

Chapter 15 WAITING

'My wife, I have bad news for thee,' said Professor Bhaer, coming
in one day early in January.

'Please tell it at once. I can't bear to wait, Fritz,' cried Mrs Jo,
dropping her work and standing up as if to take the shot bravely.

'But we must wait and hope, heart's-dearest. Come and let us bear
it together. Emil's ship is lost, and as yet no news of him.'

It was well Mr Bhaer had taken his wife into his strong arms, for
she looked ready to drop, but bore up after a moment, and sitting
by her good man, heard all that there was to tell. Tidings had been
sent to the shipowners at Hamburg by some of the survivors, and
telegraphed at once by Franz to his uncle. As one boat-load was
safe, there was hope that others might also escape, though the gale
had sent two to the bottom. A swift-sailing steamer had brought
these scanty news, and happier ones might come at any hour; but
kind Franz had not added that the sailors reported the captain's
boat as undoubtedly wrecked by the falling mast, since the smoke
hid its escape, and the gale soon drove all far asunder. But this sad
rumour reached Plumfield in time; and deep was the mourning for
the happyhearted Commodore, never to come singing home again.
Mrs Jo refused to believe it, stoutly insisting that Emil would
outlive any storm and yet turn up safe and gay. It was well she
clung to this hopeful view, for poor Mr Bhaer was much afflicted
by the loss of his boy, because his sister's sons had been his so long
he scarcely knew a different love for his very own. Now was a
chance for Mrs Juno to keep her word; and she did, speaking
cheerily of Emil, even when hope waxed faint and her heart was
heavy. If anything could comfort the Bhaers for the loss of one
boy, it would have been the affection and sorrow shown by all the
rest. Franz kept the cable busy with his varying messages, Nat sent
loving letters from Leipzig, and Tom harassed the shipping agents
for news. Even busy Jack wrote them with unusual warmth; Dolly
and George came often, bearing the loveliest flowers and the
daintiest bon-bons to cheer Mrs Bhaer and sweeten Josie's grief;
while good-hearted Ned travelled all the way from Chicago to
press their hands and say, with a tear in his eye: 'I was so anxious
to hear all about the dear old boy, I couldn't keep away.'

'That's right comfortable, and shows me that if I didn't teach my
boys anything else, I did give them the brotherly love that will
make them stand by one another all their lives,' said Mrs Jo, when
he had gone.

Rob answered reams of sympathizing letters, which showed how
many friends they had; and the kindly praises of the lost man
would have made Emil a hero and a saint, had they all been true.
The elders bore it quietly, having learned submission in life's hard
school; but the younger people rebelled; some hoped against hope
and kept up, others despaired at once, and little Josie, Emil's pet
cousin and playmate, was so broken-hearted nothing could comfort
her. Nan dosed in vain, Daisy's cheerful words went by like the
wind, and Bess's devices to amuse her all failed utterly. To cry in
mother's arms and talk about the wreck, which haunted her even in
her sleep, was all she cared to do; and Mrs Meg was getting
anxious when Miss Cameron sent Josie a kind note bidding her
learn bravely her first lesson in real tragedy, and be like the
self-sacrificing heroines she loved to act. That did the little girl
good, and she made an effort in which Teddy and Octoo helped
her much; for the boy was deeply impressed by this sudden eclipse
of the firefly whose light and life all missed when they were gone,
and lured her out every day for long drives behind the black mare,
who shook her silvery bells till they made such merry music Josie
could not help listening to it, and whisked her over the snowy
roads at a pace which set the blood dancing in her veins and sent
her home strengthened and comforted by sunshine, fresh air, and
congenial society   three aids young sufferers seldom can resist.

As Emil was helping nurse Captain Hardy, safe and well, aboard
the ship, all this sorrow would seem wasted; but it was not, for it
drew many hearts more closely together by a common grief, taught
some patience, some sympathy, some regret for faults that lie
heavy on the conscience when the one sinned against is gone, and
all of them the solemn lesson to be ready when the summons
comes. A hush lay over Plumfield for weeks, and the studious
faces on the hill reflected the sadness of those in the valley. Sacred
music sounded from Parnassus to comfort all who heard; the
brown cottage was beseiged with gifts for the little mourner, and
Emil's flag hung at half-mast on the roof where he last sat with
Mrs Jo.

So the weeks went heavily by till suddenly, like a thunderbolt out
of a clear sky, came the news, 'All safe, letters on the way.' Then
up went the flag, out rang the college bells, bang went Teddy's
long-unused cannon, and a chorus of happy voices cried 'Thank
God', as people went about, laughing, crying, and embracing one
another in a rapture of delight. By and by the longed-for letters
came, and all the story of the wreck was told; briefly by Emil,
eloquently by Mrs Hardy, gratefully by the captain, while Mary
added a few tender words that went straight to their hearts and
seemed the sweetest of all. Never were letters so read, passed
round, admired, and cried over as these; for Mrs Jo carried them in
her pocket when Mr Bhaer did not have them in his, and both took
a look at them when they said their prayers at night. Now the
Professor was heard humming like a big bee again as he went to
his classes, and the lines smoothed out of Mother Bhaer's forehead,
while she wrote this real story to anxious friends and let her
romances wait. Now messages of congratulation flowed in, and
beaming faces showed everywhere. Rob amazed his parents by
producing a poem which was remarkably good for one of his years,
and Demi set it to music that it might be sung when the sailor boy
returned. Teddy stood on his head literally, and tore about the
neighbourhood on Octoo, like a second Paul Revere   only his
tidings were good. But best of all, little Josie lifted up her head as
the snowdrops did, and began to bloom again, growing tall and
quiet, with the shadow of past sorrow to tone down her former
vivacity and show that she had learned a lesson in trying to act
well her part on the real stage, where all have to take their share in
the great drama of life.

Now another sort of waiting began; for the travellers were on their
way to Hamburg, and would stay there awhile before coming
home, as Uncle Hermann owned the Brenda, and the captain must
report to him. Emil must remain to Franz's wedding, deferred till
now because of the season of mourning, so happily ended. These
plans were doubly welcome and pleasant after the troublous times
which went before, and no spring ever seemed so beautiful as this
one; for, as Teddy put it:

'Now is the winter of our discontent
Made glorious by these sons of Bhaer!'

Franz and Emil being regarded in the light of elder brothers by the
real 'sons of Bhaer'.

There was great scrubbing and dusting among the matrons as they
set their houses in order not only for Class Day, but to receive the
bride and groom, who were to come to them for the honeymoon
trip. Great plans were made, gifts prepared, and much joy felt at
the prospect of seeing Franz again; though Emil, who was to
accompany them, would be the greater hero. Little did the dear
souls dream what a surprise was in store for them, as they
innocently laid their plans and wished all the boys could be there
to welcome home their eldest and their Casablanca.

While they wait and work so happily, let us see how our other
absent boys are faring as they too wait and work and hope for
better days. Nat was toiling steadily along the path he had wisely
chosen, though it was by no means strewn with flowers   quite
thorny was it, in fact, and hard to travel, after the taste of ease and
pleasure he had got when nibbling at forbidden fruit. But his crop
of wild oats was a light one, and he resolutely reaped what he had
sowed, finding some good wheat among the tares. He taught by
day; he fiddled night after night in the dingy little theatre, and he
studied so diligently that his master was well pleased, and kept
him in mind as one to whom preferment was due, if any chance
occurred. Gay friends forgot him; but the old ones stood fast, and
cheered him up when Heimweh and weariness made him sad. As
spring came on things mended   expenses grew less, work
pleasanter, and life more bearable than when wintry storms beat on
his thinly clad back, and frost pinched the toes that patiently
trudged in old boots. No debts burdened him; the year of absence
was nearly over; and if he chose to stay, Herr Berg-mann had
hopes for him that would bring independence for a time at least.
So he walked under the lindens with a lighter heart, and in the May
evenings went about the city with a band of strolling students,
making music before houses where he used to sit as guest. No one
recognized him in the darkness, though old friends often listened
to the band; and once Minna threw him money, which he humbly
received as part of his penance, being morbid on the subject of his
sins.

His reward came sooner than he expected, and was greater than he
deserved, he thought, though his heart leaped with joy when his
master one day informed him that he was chosen, with several
other of his most promising pupils, to join the musical society
which was to take part in the great festival in London the next July.
Here was not only honour for the violinist but happiness for the
man, as it brought him nearer home, and would open a chance of
further promotion and profit in his chosen profession.

'Make thyself useful to Bachmeister there in London with thy
English, and if all goes well with him, he will be glad to take thee
to America, whither he goes in the early autumn for winter
concerts. Thou hast done well these last months, and I have hopes
of thee.'

As the great Bergmann seldom praised his pupils, these words
filled Nat's soul with pride and joy, and he worked yet more
diligently than before to fulfil his master's prophecy. He thought
the trip to England happiness enough, but found room for more
when, early in June, Franz and Emil paid him a flying visit,
bringing all sorts of good news, kind wishes, and comfortable gifts
for the lonely fellow, who could have fallen on their necks and
cried like a girl at seeing his old mates again. How glad he was to
be found in his little room busy at his proper work, not living like
an idle gentleman on borrowed money! How proud he was to tell
his plans, assure them that he had no debts, and receive their
praises for his improvement in music, their respect for his
economy and steadfastness in well-doing! How relieved when,
having honestly confessed his shortcomings, they only laughed,
and owned that they also had known like experiences, and were
the wiser for them. He was to go to the wedding late in June, and
join his comrades in London. As best man, he could not refuse the
new suit Franz insisted on ordering for him; and a cheque from
home about that time made him feel like a millionaire   and a
happy one; for this was accompanied by such kind letters full of
delight in his success, he felt that he had earned it, and waited for
his joyful holiday with the impatience of a boy.

Dan meantime was also counting the weeks till August, when he
would be free. But neither marriage-bells nor festival music
awaited him; no friends would greet him as he left the prison; no
hopeful prospect lay before him; no happy home-going was to be
his. Yet his success was far greater than Nat's, though only God
and one good man saw it. It was a hard-won battle; but he would
never have to fight so terrible a one again; for though enemies
would still assail from within and from without, he had found the
little guide-book that Christian carried in his bosom, and Love,
Penitence, and Prayer, the three sweet sisters, had given him the
armour which would keep him safe. He had not learned to wear it
yet, and chafed against it, though he felt its value, thanks to the
faithful friend who had stood by him all that bitter year.

Soon he was to be free again, worn and scarred in the fray, but out
among men in the blessed sun and air. When he thought of it Dan
felt as if he could not wait, but must burst that narrow cell and fly
away, as the caddis-worms he used to watch by the brookside shed
their stony coffins, to climb the ferns and soar into the sky. Night
after night he lulled himself to sleep with planning how, when he
had seen Mary Mason according to his promise, he would steer
straight for his old friends, the Indians, and in the wilderness hide
his disgrace and heal his wounds. Working to save the many would
atone for the sin of killing one, he thought; and the old free life
would keep him safe from the temptations that beset him in cities.

'By and by, when I'm all right again, and have something to tell
that I'm not ashamed of, I'll go home,' he said, with a quicker beat
of the impetuous heart that longed to be there so intensely, he
found it as hard to curb as one of his unbroken horses on the
plains. 'Not yet. I must get over this first. They'd see and smell and
feel the prison taint on me, if I went now, and I couldn't look them
in the face and hide the truth. I can't lose Ted's love, Mother
Bhaer's confidence, and the respect of   of   the girls   for they did
respect my strength, anyway; but now they wouldn't touch me.'
And poor Dan looked with a shudder at the brown fist he clenched
involuntarily as he remembered what it had done since a certain
little white hand had laid in it confidingly. 'I'll make 'em prOud of
me yet; and no one shall ever know of this awful year. I can wipe it
out, and I will, so help me God!' And the clenched hand was held
up as if to take a solemn oath that this lost year should yet be made
good, if resolution and repentance could work the miracles

Chapter 16 IN THE TENNIS-COURT

Athletic sports were in high favour at Plumfield; and the river
where the old punt used to wabble about with a cargo of small
boys, or echo to the shrill screams of little girls trying to get lilies,
now was alive with boats of all kinds, from the slender wherry to
the trim pleasure-craft, gay with cushions, awnings, and fluttering
pennons. Everyone rowed, and the girls as well as the youths had
their races, and developed their muscles in the most scientific
manner. The large, level meadow near the old willow was now the
college playground, and here baseball battles raged with fury,
varied by football, leaping, and kindred sports fitted to split the
fingers, break the ribs, and strain the backs of the too ambitious
participants. The gentler pastimes of the damsels were at a safe
distance from this Champ de Mars; croquet mallets clicked under
the elms that fringed the field, rackets rose and fell energetically in
several tennis-courts, and gates of different heights were handy to
practise the graceful bound by which every girl expected to save
her life some day when the mad bull, which was always coming
but never seemed to arrive, should be bellowing at her heels.

One of these tennis grounds was called 'Jo's Court', and here the
little lady ruled like a queen; for she was fond of the game, and
being bent on developing her small self to the highest degree of
perfection, she was to be found at every leisure moment with some
victim hard at it. On a certain pleasant Saturday afternoon she had
been playing with Bess and beating her; for, though more graceful,
the Princess was less active than her cousin, and cultivated her
roses by quieter methods.

'Oh dear! you are tired, and every blessed boy is at that stupid
baseball match. 'What shall I do?' sighed Josie, pushing back the
great red hat she wore, and gazing sadly round her for more worlds
to conquer.

'I'll play presently, when I'm a little cooler. But it is dull work for
me, as I never win,' answered Bess, fanning herself with a large
leaf.

Josie was about to sit down beside her on the rustic seat and wait,
when her quick eye saw afar off two manly forms arrayed in white
flannel; their blue legs seemed bearing them towards the battle
going on in the distance; but they never reached the fray; for with a
cry of joy, Jo raced away to meet them, bent on securing this
heaven-sent reinforcement. Both paused as she came flying up,
and both raised their hats; but oh, the difference there was in the
salutes! The stout youth pulled his off lazily and put it on again at
once, as if glad to get the duty over; the slender being, with the
crimson tie, lifted his with a graceful bend, and held it aloft while
he accosted the rosy, breathless maid, thus permitting her to see
his raven locks smoothly parted, with one little curl upon the brow.
Dolly prided himself upon that bow, and practised it before his
glass, but did not bestow it upon all alike, regarding it as a work of
art, fit only for the fairest and most favoured of his female
admirers; for he was a pretty youth, and fancied himself an
Adonis.

Eager Josie evidently did not appreciate the honour he did her, for
with a nod she begged them both to 'come along and play tennis,
not go and get all hot and dirty with the boys'. These two
adjectives won the day; for Stuffy was already warmer than he
liked to be, and Dolly had on a new suit which he desired to keep
immaculate as long as possible, conscious that it was very
becoming.

'Charmed to oblige,' answered the polite one, with another bend.

'You play, I'll rest,' added the fat boy, yearning for repose and
gentle converse with the Princess in the cooling shade.

'Well, you can comfort Bess, for I've beaten her all to bits and she
needs amusing. I know you've got something nice in your pocket,
George; give her some, and 'Dolphus can have her racket. Now
then, fly round'; and driving her prey before her, Josie returned in
triumph to the court.

Casting himself ponderously upon the bench, which creaked under
his weight, Stuffy   as we will continue to call him, though no one
else dared to use the old name now   promptly produced the box of
confectionery, without which he never travelled far, and regaled
Bess with candied violets and other dainties, while Dolly worked
hard to hold his own against a most accomplished antagonist. He
would have beaten her if an unlucky stumble, which produced an
unsightly stain upon the knee of those new shorts, had not
distracted his mind and made him careless. Much elated at her
victory, Josie permitted him to rest, and offered ironi cal
consolation for the mishap which evidently weighed upon his
mind.

'Don't be an old Betty; it can be cleaned. You must have been a cat
in some former state, you are so troubled about dirt; or a tailor, and
lived for clothes.'

'Come now, don't hit a fellow when he is down,' responded Dolly
from the grass where he and Stuffy now lay to make room for both
girls on the seat. One handkerchief was spread under him, and his
elbow leaned upon another, while his eyes were sadly fixed upon
the green and brown spot which afflicted him. 'I like to be neat;
don't think it civil to cut about in old shoes and grey flannel shirts
before ladies. Our fellows are gentlemen, and dress as such,' he
added, rather nettled at the word 'tailor'; for he owed one of those
too attractive persons an uncomfortably big bill.

'So are ours; but good clothes alone don't make a gentleman here.
We require a good deal more,' flashed Josie, in arms at once to
defend her college. 'You will hear of some of the men in "old boots
and grey flannel" when you and your fine gentlemen are twiddling
your ties and scenting your hair in obscurity. I like old boots and
wear them, and I hate dandies; don't you, Bess?'

'Not when they are kind to me, and belong to our old set,' answered
Bess, with a nod of thanks to Dolly, who was carefully removing
an inquisitive caterpillar from one of her little russet shoes.

'I like a lady who is always polite, and doesn't snap a man's head
off if he has a mind of his own; don't you, George?' asked Dolly,
with his best smile for Bess and a Harvard stare of disapprobation
for Josie.

A tranquil snore was Stuffy's sole reply, and a gen eral laugh
restored peace for the moment. But Josie loved to harass the lords
of creation who asserted themselves too much, and bided her time
for another attack till she had secured more tennis. She got another
game; for Dolly was a sworn knight of dames, so he obeyed her
call, leaving Bess to sketch George as he lay upon his back, his
stout legs crossed, and his round red face partially eclipsed by his
hat. Josie got beaten this time and came back rather cross, so she
woke the peaceful sleeper by tickling his nose with a straw till he
sneezed himself into a sitting posture, and looked wrathfully about
for 'that confounded fly'.

'Come, sit up and let us have a little elegant conversation; you
"howling swells" ought to improve our minds and manners, for we
are only poor "country girls in dowdy gowns and hats",' began the
gad-fly, opening the battle with a sly quotation from one of Dolly's
unfortunate speeches about certain studious damsels who cared
more for books than finery.

'I didn't mean you! Your gowns are all right, and those hats the
latest thing out,' began poor 'Dolphus, convicting himself by the
incautious exclamation.

'Caught you that time; I thought you fellows were all gentlemen,
civil as well as nice. But you are always sneering at girls who don't
dress well and that is a very unmanly thing to do; my mother said
so'; and Josie felt that she had dealt a shrewd blow at the elegant
youth who bowed at many shrines if they were welldecorated ones.

'Got you there, old boy, and she's right. You never hear me talk
about clothes and such twaddle,' said Stuffy, suppressing a yawn,
and feeling for another bon-bon wherewith to refresh himself. 'You
talk about eating, and that is even worse for a man. You will marry
a cook and keep a restaurant some day,' laughed Josie, down on
him at once.

This fearful prediction kept him silent for several moments; but
Dolly rallied, and wisely changing the subject, carried war into the
enemy's camp.

'As you wanted us to improve your manners, allow me to say that
young ladies in good society don't make personal remarks or
deliver lectures. Little girls who are not out do it, and think it
witty; but I assure you it's not good form.'

Josie paused a moment to recover from the shock of being called 'a
little girl', when all the honours of her fourteenth birthday were
fresh upon her; and Bess said, in the lofty tone which was
infinitely more crushing than Jo's impertinence:

'That is true; but we have lived all our lives with superior people,
so we have no society talk like your young ladies. We are so
accustomed to sensible conversation, and helping one another by
telling our faults, that we have no gossip to offer you.'

When the Princess reproved, the boys seldom resented it; so Dolly
held his peace, and Josie burst out, following her cousin's lead,
which she thought a happy one:

'Our boys like to have us talk with them, and take kindly any hints
we give. They don't think they know everything and are quite
perfect at eighteen, as I've observed the Harvard men do,
especially the very young ones.'

Josie took immense satisfaction in that return shot; and Dolly
showed that he was hit, by the nettled tone in which he answered,
with a supercilious glance at the hot, dusty, and noisy crowd on the
baseball ground: 'The class of fellows you have here need all the
polish and culture you can give them; and I'm glad they get it. Our
men are largely from the best families all over the country, so we
don't need girls to teach us anything.'

'It's a pity you don't have more of such "fellows" as ours. They
value and use well what college gives them, and aren't satisfied to
slip through, getting all the fun they can and shirking the work. Oh,
I've heard you "men" talk, and heard your fathers say they wish
they hadn't wasted time and money just that you might say you'd
been through college. As for the girls, you'll be much better off in
all ways when they do get in, and keep you lazy things up to the
mark, as we do here.'

'If you have such a poor opinion of us, why do you wear our
colour?' asked Dolly, painfully conscious that he was not
improving the advantages his Alma Mater offered him, but bound
to defend her.

'I don't; my hat is scarlet, not crimson. Much you know about a
colour,' scoffed Josie.

'I know that a cross cow would soon set you scampering, if you
flaunted that red tile under her nose,' retorted Dolly.

'I'm ready for her. Can your fine young ladies do this? or you
either?' and burning to display her latest accomplishment, Josie ran
to the nearest gate, put one hand on the top rail, and vaulted over
as lightly as a bird.

Bess shook her head, and Stuffy languidly applauded; but Dolly
scorning to be braved by a girl, took a flying leap and landed on
his feet beside Josie, saying calmly: 'Can you do that?'

'Not yet; but I will by and by.'

As his foe looked a little crestfallen, Dolly relented, and affably
added sundry feats of a like nature, quite unconscious that he had
fallen into a dreadful snare; for the dull red paint on the gate, not
being used to such vigorous handling, came off in streaks upon his
shoulders when he turned a backward swing and came up smiling,
to be rewarded with the aggravating remark:

'If you want to know what crimson is, look at your back; it's nicely
stamped on and won't wash out, I think.'

'The deuce it won't!' cried Dolly, trying to get an impossible view,
and giving it up in great disgust.

'I guess we'd better be going, Doif,' said peaceable Stuffy, feeling
that it would be wise to retreat before another skirmish took place,
as his side seemed to be getting the worst of it.

'Don't hurry, I beg; stay and rest; you must need it after the
tremendous amount of brain work you've done this week. It is time
for our Greek. Come, Bess. Good afternoon, gentlemen.' And, with
a sweeping courtesy, Josie led the way, with her hat belligerently
cocked up, and her racket borne like a triumphal banner over one
shoulder; for having had the last word, she felt that she could retire
with the honours of war.

Dolly gave Bess his best bow, with the chill on; and Stuffy
subsided luxuriously, with his legs in the air, murmuring in a
dreamy tone:

'Little Jo is as cross as two sticks today. I'm going in for another
nap: too hot to play anything.' 'So it is. Wonder if Spitfire was right
about these beastly spots?' And Dolly sat down to try dry cleansing
with one of his handkerchiefs. 'Asleep?' he asked, after a few
moments of this cheerful occupation, fearing that his chum might
be too comfortable when he was in a fume himself.

'No. I was thinking that Jo wasn't far wrong about shirking. 'Tis a
shame to get so little done, when we ought to be grinding like
Morton and Torry and that lot. I never wanted to go to college; but
my governor made me. Much good it will do either of us!'
answered Stuffy, with a groan; for he hated work, and saw two
more long years of it before him.

'Gives a man prestige, you know. No need to dig. I mean to have a
gay old time, and be a "howling swell", if I choose. Between you
and me though, it would be no end jolly to have the girls along.
Study be hanged! But if we've got to turn the grindstone, it would
be mighty nice to have some of the little dears to lend a hand.
Wouldn't it now?'

'I'd like three this minute   one to fan me, one to kiss me, and one
to give me some iced lemonade!' sighed Stuffy, with a yearning
glance towards the house, whence no succour appeared.

'How would root-beer do?' asked a voice behind them, which made
Dolly spring to his feet and Stuffy roll over like a startled porpoise.

Sitting on the stile that crossed the wall near by was Mrs Jo, with
two jugs slung over her shoulder by a strap, several tin mugs in her
hand, and an oldfashioned sun-bonnet on her head.

'I knew the boys would be killing themselves with ice-water; so I
strolled down with some of my good, wholesome beer. They drank
like fishes. But Silas was with me; so my cruse still holds out.
Have some?'

'Yes, thanks, very much. Let us pour it.' And Dolly held the cup
while Stuffy joyfully filled it; both very grateful, but rather afraid
she had heard what went before the wish she fulfilled.

She proved that she had by saying, as they stood drinking her
health, while she sat between them, looking like a middle-aged
vivandire, with her jugs and mugs:

'I was glad to hear you say you would like to have girls at your
college; but I hope you will learn to speak more respectfully of
them before they come; for that will be the first lesson they will
teach you.'

'Really, ma'am, I was only joking,' began Stuffy, gulping down his
beer in a hurry.

'So was I. I'm sure I   I'm devoted to 'em,' stuttered Dolly,
panic-stricken; for he saw that he was in for a lecture of some sort.

'Not in the right way. Frivolous girls may like to be called "little
dears" and things of that sort; but the girls who love study wish to
be treated like reasonable beings, not dolls to flirt with. Yes, I'm
going to preach; that's my business; so stand up and take it like
men.'

Mrs Jo laughed; but she was in earnest; for by various hints and
signs during the past winter she knew that the boys were beginning
to 'see life' in the way she especially disapproved. Both were far
from home, had money enough to waste, and were as
inexperienced, curious, and credulous as most lads of their age.
Not fond of books, therefore without the safeguard which keeps
many studious fellows out of harm; one selfindulgent, indolent,
and so used to luxury that pampering of the senses was an easy
thing; the other vain, as all comely boys are, full of conceit, and so
eager to find favour in the eyes of his comrades that he was ready
for anything which would secure it. These traits and foibles made
both peculiarly liable to the temptations which assail
pleasure-loving and weak-willed boys. Mrs Jo knew them well,
and had dropped many a warning word since they went to college;
but till lately they seemed not to understand some of her friendly
hints; now she was sure they would, and meant to speak out: for
long experience with boys made her both bold and skilful in
handling some of the dangers usually left to silence, till it is too
late for anything but pity and reproach.

'I'm going to talk to you like a mother, because yours are far away;
and there are things that mothers can manage best, if they do their
duty,' she solemnly began from the depths of the sunbonnet.

'Great Scott! We're in for it now!' thought Dolly, in secret dismay;
while Stuffy got the first blow by trying to Sustain himself with
another mug of beer.

'That won't hurt you; but I must warn you about drinking other
things, George. Overeating is an old story; and a few more fits of
illness will teach you to be wise. But drinking is a more serious
thing, and leads to worse harm than any that can afflict your body
alone. I hear you talk about wines as if you knew them and cared
more for them than a boy should; and several times I've heard
jokes that meant mischief. For heaven's sake, don't begin to play
with this dangerous taste "for fun", as you say, or because it's the
fashion, and the other fellows do. Stop at once, and learn that
temperance in all things is the only safe rule.' 'Upon my honour, I
only take wine and iron. I need a tonic, mother says, to repair the
waste of brain-tissue while I'm studying,' protested Stuffy, putting
down the mug as if it burnt his fingers.

'Good beef and oatmeal will repair your tissues much better than
any tonic of that sort. Work and plain fare are what you want; and
I wish I had you here for a few months out of harm's way. I'd
Banting you, and fit you to run without puffing, and get on without
four or five meals a day. What an absurd hand that is for a man!
You ought to be ashamed of it!' And Mrs Jo caught up the plump
fist, with deep dimples at each knuckle, which was fumbling
distressfully at the buckle of the belt girt about a waist far too large
for a youth of his age.

'I can't help it   we all grow fat; it's in the family,' said Stuffy in
self-defence,

'All the more reason you should live carefully. Do you want to die
early, or be an invalid all your life?'

'No, ma'am!'

Stuffy looked so scared that Mrs Jo could not be hard upon his
budding sins, for they lay at his overindulgent mother's door line in
a great measure; so she softened the tone of her voice, and added,
with a little slap on the fat hand, as she used to do when it was
small enough to pilfer lumps of sugar from her bowl:

'Then be careful; for a man Writes his character in his face; and
you don't want gluttony and intemperance in yours, I know.'

'I'm sure I don't! Please make out a wholesome bill of fare, and I'll
stick to it, if~I can. I am getting stout, and I don't like it; and my
liver's torpid, and I have palpitations and headache. Overwork,
mother says; but it may be overeating.' And Stuffy gave a sigh of
mingled regret for the good things he renounced, and relief as he
finished loosening his belt as soon as his hand was free.

'I will; follow it, and in a year you'll be a man and not a meal-bag.
Now, Dolly'; and Mrs Jo turned to the other culprit, who shook in
his shoes and wished he hadn't come.

'Are you studying French as industriously as you were last winter?'

'No ma'am; I don't care for it   that is, I   I'm busy with G-Greek just
now,' answered Dolly, beginning bravely, quite in the dark as to
what that odd question meant till a sudden memory made him
stutter and look at his shoes with deep interest.

'Oh, he doesn't study it; only reads French novels and goes to the
theatre when the opera bouffe is here,' said Stuffy, innocently
confirming Mrs Jo's suspicions.

'So I understood; and that is what I want to speak about. Ted had a
sudden desire to learn French in that way, from something you
said, Dolly; so I went myself, and was quite satisfied that it was no
place for a decent boy. Your men were out in full force; and I was
glad to see that some of the younger ones looked as ashamed as I
felt. The older fellows enjoyed it, and when we came out were
waiting to take those painted girls to supper. Did you ever go with
them?'

'Once.'

'Did you like it?'

'No 'm; I   I came away early,' stammered Dolly, with a face as red
as his splendid tie. 'I'm glad you have not lost the grace of blushing
yet; but you will soon, if you keep up this sort of study and forget
to be ashamed. The society of such women will unfit you for that
of good ones, and lead you into trouble and sin and shame. Oh,
why don't the city fathers stop that evil thing, when they know the
harm it does? It made my heart ache to see those boys, who ought
to be at home and in their beds, going off for a night of riot which
would help to ruin some of them for ever.'

The youths looked scared at Mrs Jo's energetic protest against one
of the fashionable pleasures of the day, and waited in
conscience-stricken silence   Stuffy glad that he never went to
those gay suppers, and Dolly deeply grateful that he 'came away
early'. With a hand on either shoulder, and all the terrors smoothed
from her brow, Mrs Jo went on in her most motherly tone, anxious
to do for them what no other woman would, and do it kindly:

'My dear boys, if I didn't love you, I would not say these things. I
know they are not pleasant; but my conscience won't let me hold
my peace when a word may keep you from two of the great sins
that curse the world and send so many young men to destruction.
You are just beginning to feel the allurement of them, and soon it
will be hard to turn away. Stop now, I beg of you, and not only
save yourselves but help others by a brave example. Come to me if
things worry you; don't be afraid or ashamed; I have heard many
sadder confessions than any you are ever likely to bring me, and
been able to comfort many poor fellows, gone wrong for want of a
word in time. Do this, and you will be able to kiss your mothers
with clean lips, and by and by have the right to ask innocent girls
to love you.'

'Yes'm, thank you. I suppose you're right; but it's pretty hard work
to toe the mark when ladies give you wine and gentlemen take
their daughters to see Aime,' said Dolly, foreseeing tribulations
ahead though he knew it was time to 'pull up'.

'So it is; but all the more honour to those who are brave and wise
enough to resist public opinion, and the easy-going morals of bad
or careless men and women. Think of the persons whom you
respect most, and in imitating them you will secure the respect of
those who look up to you. I'd rather my boys should be laughed at
and cold-shouldered by a hundred foolish fellows than lose what,
once gone, no power can give them back   innocence and
self-respect. I don't wonder you find it "hard to toe the mark",
when books, pictures, ball-rooms, theatres, and streets offer
temptations; yet you can resist, if you try. Last winter Mrs Brooke
used to worry about John's being out so late reporting; but when
she spoke to him about the things he must see and hear on his way
to and fro from the office at midnight, he said in his sober way, "I
know what you mean, mother; but no fellow need to go wrong
unless he wants to."

'That's like the Deacon!' exclaimed Stuffy, with an approving smile
on his fat face.

'I'm glad you told me that. He's right; and it's because he doesn't
want to go wrong we all respect him so,' added Dolly, looking up
now with an expression which assured his Mentor that the right
string had been touched, and a spirit of emulation roused, more
helpful, perhaps, than any words of hers. Seeing this, she was
satisfied, and said, as she prepared to leave the bar before which
her culprits had been tried and found guilty, but recommended to
mercy:

'Then be to others what John is to you   a good example. Forgive
me for troubling you, my dear lads, and remember my little
preachment. I think it will do you good, though I may never know
it. Chance words spoken in kindness often help amazingly; and
that's what old people are here for   else their experience is of little
use. Now, come and find the young folk. I hope I shall never have
to shut the gates of Plumfield upon you, as I have on some of your
"gentlemen". I mean to keep my boys and girls safe if I can, and
this a wholesome place where the good old-fashioned virtues are
lived and taught.'

Much impressed by that dire threat, Dolly helped her from her
perch with deep respect; and Stuffy relieved her of her empty jugs,
solemnly vowing to abstain from all fermented beverages except
root-beer, as long as feeble flesh could hold out. Of course they
made light of 'Mother Bhaer's lecture' when they were alone   that
was to be expected of 'men of our class' but in their secret souls
they thanked her for giving their boyish consciences a jog, and
more than once afterward had cause to remember gratefully that
halfhour in the tennis-court.

Chapter 17 AMONG THE MAIDS

Although this story is about Jo's boys, her girls cannot be
neglected, because they held a high place in this little republic, and
especial care was taken to fit them to play their parts worthily in
the great republic which offered them wider opportunities and
more serious duties. To many the social influence was the better
part of the training they received; for education is not confined to
books, and the finest characters often graduate from no college,
but make experience their master, and life their book. Others cared
only for the mental culture, and were in danger of over-studying,
under the delusion which pervades New England that learning
must be had at all costs, forgetting that health and real wisdom are
better. A third class of ambitious girls hardly knew what they
wanted, but were hungry for whatever could fit them to face the
world and earn a living, being driven by necessity, the urgency of
some half-conscious talent, or the restlessness of strong young
natures to break away from the narrow life which no longer
satisfied.

At Plumfield all found something to help them; for the growing
institution had not yet made its rules as fixed as the laws of the
Medes and Persians, and believed so heartily in the right of all
sexes, colours, creeds, and ranks to education, that there was room
for everyone who knocked, and a welcome to the shabby youths
from up country, the eager girls from the West, the awkward
freedman or woman from the South, or the well-born student
whose poverty made this college a possibility when other doors
were barred. There still was prejudice, ridicule, neglect in high
places, and prophecies of failure to contend against; but the
Faculty was composed of cheerful, hopeful men and women who
had seen greater reforms spring from smaller roots, and after
stormy seasons blossom beautifully, to add prosperity and honour
to the nation. So they worked on steadily and bided their time, full
of increasing faith in their attempt as year after year their numbers
grew, their plans succeeded, and the sense of usefulness in this
most vital of all professions blessed them with its sweet rewards.

Among the various customs which had very naturally sprung up
was one especially useful and interesting to 'the girls', as the young
women liked to be called. It all grew out of the old sewing hour
still kept up by the three sisters long after the little work-boxes had
expanded into big baskets full of household mending. They were
busy women, yet on Saturdays they tried to meet in one of the
three sewing-rooms; for even classic Parnassus had its nook where
Mrs Amy often sat among her servants, teaching them to make and
mend, thereby giving them a respect for economy, since the rich
lady did not scorn to darn her hose, and sew on buttons. In these
household retreats, with books and work, and their daughters by
them, they read and sewed and talked in the sweet privacy that
domestic women love, and can make so helpful by a wise mixture
of cooks and chemistry, table linen and theology, prosaic duties
and good poetry.

Mrs Meg was the first to propose enlarging this little circle; for as
she went her motherly rounds among the young women she found
a sad lack of order, skill, and industry in this branch of education.
Latin, Greek, the higher mathematics, and science of all sorts
prospered finely; but the dust gathered on the work-baskets, frayed
elbows went unheeded, and some of the blue stockings sadly
needed mending. Anxious lest the usual sneer at learned women
should apply to 'our girls', she gently lured two or three of the most
untidy to her house, and made the hour so pleasant, the lesson so
kindly, that they took the hint, were grateful for the favour, and
asked to come again. Others soon begged to make the detested
weekly duty lighter by joining the party, and soon it was a
privilege so much desired that the old museum was refitted with
sewing-machines, tables, rocking-chair, and a cheerful fireplace,
so that, rain or shine, the needles might go on undisturbed.

Here Mrs Meg was in her glory, and stood wielding her big shears
like a queen as she cut out white work, fitted dresses, and directed
Daisy, her special aide, about the trimming of hats, and completing
the lace and ribbon trifles which add grace to the simplest costume
and save poor or busy girls so much money and time. Mrs Amy
contributed taste, and decided the great question of colours and
complexions; for few women, even the most learned, are without
that desire to look well which makes many a plain face comely, as
well as many a pretty one ugly for want of skill and knowledge of
the fitness of things. She also took her turn to provide books for
the readings, and as art was her forte she gave them selections
from Ruskin, Hamerton, and Mrs Jameson, who is never old. Bess
read these aloud as her contribution, and Josie took her turn at the
romances, poetry, and plays her uncles recommended. Mrs Jo gave
little lectures on health, religion, politics, and the various questions
in which all should be interested, with copious extracts from Miss
Cobbe's Duties of Women, Miss Brackett's Education of American
Girls, Mrs Duffy's No Sex in Education, Mrs Woolson's Dress
Reform, and many of the other excellent books wise women write
for their sisters, now that they are waking up and asking: 'What
shall we do?'

It was curious to see the prejudices melt away as ignorance was
enlightened, indifference change to interest, and intelligent minds
set thinking, while quick wits and lively tongues added spice to the
discussions which inevitably followed. So the feet that wore the
neatly mended hose carried wiser heads than before, the pretty
gowns covered hearts warmed with higher purposes, and the hands
that dropped the thimbles for pens, lexicons, and celestial globes,
were better fitted for life's work, whether to rock cradles, tend the
sick, or help on the great work of the world.

One day a brisk discussion arose concerning careers for women.
Mrs Jo had read something on the subject and asked each of the
dozen girls sitting about the room, what she intended to do on
leaving college. The answers were as usual: 'I shall teach, help
mother, study medicine, art,' etc.; but nearly all ended with:

'Till I marry.'

'But if you don't marry, what then?' asked Mrs Jo, feeling like a girl
again as she listened to the answers, and watched the thoughtful,
gay, or eager faces.

'Be old maids, I suppose. Horrid, but inevitable, since there are so
many superfluous women,' answered a lively lass, too pretty to fear
single blessedness unless she chose it.

'It is well to consider that fact, and fit yourselves to be useful, not
superfluous women. That class, by the way, is largely made up of
widows, I find; so don't consider it a slur on maidenhood.'

'That's a comfort! Old maids aren't sneered at half as much as they
used to be, since some of them have grown famous and proved that
woman isn't a half but a whole human being, and can stand alone.'

'Don't like it all the same. We can't all be like Miss

~    Mii~ Ni~hhngale, Miss Phelps, and the rest.

So what can we do but sit in a corner and look on?' asked a plain
girl with a dissatisfied expression.

'Cultivate cheerfulness and content, if nothing else. But there are
so many little odd jobs waiting to be done that nobody need "sit
idle and look on", unless she chooses,' said Mrs Meg, with a smile,
laying on the girl's head the new hat she had just trimmed.

'Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs Brooke, I see; it's a little job, but
it makes me neat and happy   and grateful,' she added, looking up
with brighter eyes as she accepted the labour of love and the lesson
as sweetly as they were given.

'One of the best and most beloved women I know has been doing
odd jobs for the Lord for years, and will keep at it till her dear
hands are folded in her coffin. All sorts of things she does   picks
up neglected children and puts them in safe homes, saves lost girls,
nurses poor women in trouble, sews, knits, trots, begs, works for
the poor day after day with no reward but the thanks of the needy,
the love and honour of the rich who make Saint Matilda their
almoner. That's a life worth living; and I think that quiet little
woman will get a higher seat in Heaven than many of those of
whom the world has heard.'

'I know it's lovely, Mrs Bhaer; but it's dull for young folks. We do
want a little fun before we buckle to,' said a Western girl with a
wide-awake face.

'Have your fun, my dear; but if you must earn your bread, try to
make it sweet with cheerfulness, not bitter with the daily regret
that it isn't cake. I used to think mine was a very hard fate because
I had to amuse a somewhat fretful old lady; but the books I read in
that lonely library have been of immense use to me since, and the
dear old soul bequeathed me Plum-field for my "cheerful service
and affectionate care". I didn't deserve it, but I did use to try to be
jolly and kind, and get as much honey out of duty as I could,
thanks to my dear mother's help and advice.'

'Gracious! if I could earn a place like this, I'd sing all day and be an
angel; but you have to take your chance, and get nothing for your
pains, perhaps. I never do,' said the Westerner, who had a hard
time with small means and large aspirations.

'Don't do it for the reward; but be sure it will come, though not in
the shape you expect. I worked hard for fame and money one
winter; but I got neither, and was much disappointed. A year
afterwards I found I had earned two prizes: skill with my pen, and
Professor Bhaer.'

Mrs Jo's laugh was echoed blithely by the girls, who liked to have
these conversations enlivened by illustrations from life.

'You are a very lucky woman,' began the discontented damsel,
whose soul soared above new hats, welcome as they were, but did
not quite know where

to steer.

'Yet her name used to be "Luckless Jo", and she never had what
she wanted till she had given up hoping for it,' said Mrs Meg.

'I'll give up hoping, then, right away, and see if my wishes will
come. I only want to help my folks, and get a good school.'

'Take this proverb for your guide: "Get the distaff ready, and the
Lord will send the flax",' answered Mrs Jo.

'We'd better all do that, if we are to be spinst~r~,' said the pretty
one, adding gaily, 'I think I should like it, on the whole   they are
so independent. My Aunt Jenny can do just what she likes, and ask
no one's leave; but Ma has to consult Pa about everything. Yes, I'll
give you my chance, Sally, and be a "superfluum", as Mr Plock
says.'

'You'll be one of the first to go into bondage, see if you aren't.
Much obliged, all the same.'

'Well, I'll get my distaff ready, and take whatever flax the Fates
send   single, or double-twisted, as the powers please.'

'That is the right spirit, Nelly. Keep it up, and see how happy life
will be with a brave heart, a willing hand, and plenty to do.'

'No one objects to plenty of domestic work or fashionable
pleasure, I find; but the minute we begin to study, people tell us we
can't bear it, and warn us to be very careful. I've tried the other
things, and got so tired I came to college; though my people
predict nervous exhaustion and an early death. Do you think there
is any danger?' asked a stately girl, with an anxious glance at the
blooming face reflected in the mirror opposite.

'Are you stronger or weaker than when you came two years ago,
Miss Winthrop?'

'Stronger in body, and much happier in mind. I think I was dying of
ennui; but the doctors called it inherited delicacy of constitution.
That is why mamma is so anxious, and I wish not to go too fast.'

'Don't worry, my dear; that active brain of yours was starving for
good food; it has plenty now, and plain living suits you better than
luxury and dissipation. It is all nonsense about girls not being able
to study as well as boys. Neither can bear cramming; but with
proper care both are better for it; so enjoy the life your instinct led
you to, and we will prove that wise headwork is a better cure for
that sort of delicacy than tonics, and novels on the sofa, where far
too many of our girls go to wreck nowadays. They burn the candle
at both ends; and when they break down they blame the books, not
the balls.'

'Dr Nan was telling me about a patient of hers who thought she had
heart-complaint, till Nan made her take off her corsets, stopped her
coffee and dancing all night, and made her eat, sleep, walk, and
live regularly for a time; and now she's a brilliant cure. Common
sense versus custom, Nan said.'

'I've had no headaches siflce I came here, and can do twice as
much studying as I did at home. It's the air, I think, and the fun of
going ahead of the boys,' said another girl, tapping her big
forehead with her thimble, as if the lively brain inside was in good
working order and enjoyed the daily gymnastics she gave it.

'Quality, not quantity, wins the day, you know. Our brains may be
smaller, but I don't see that they fall short of what is required of
them; and if I'm not mistaken, the largest-headed man in our class
is the dullest,' said Nelly, with a solemn air which produced a gale
of merriment; for all knew that the young Goliath she mentioned
had been metaphorically slain by this quick-witted David on many
a battle-field, to the great disgust of himself and his mates.

'Mrs Brooke, do I gauge on the right or the wrong side?' asked the
best Greek scholar of her class, eyeing a black silk apron with a
lost expression.

'The right, Miss Pierson; and leave a space between the tucks; it
looks prettier so.'

'I'll never make another; but it will save my dresses from
ink-stains, so I'm glad I've got it'; and the erudite Miss Pierson
laboured on, finding it a harder task than any Greek root she ever
dug up.

'We paper-stainers must learn how to make shields, or we are lost.
I'll give you a pattern of the pinafore I used to wear in my
"blood-and-thunder days", as we call them,' said Mrs Jo, trying to
remember what became of the old tin-kitchen which used to hold
her works.

'Speaking of writers reminds me that my ambition is to be a
George Eliot, and thrill the world! It must be so splendid to know
that one has such power, and to hear people own that one
possesses a "masculine intellect"! I don't care for most women's
novels, but hers are immense; don't you think so, Mrs Bhaer?'
asked the girl with the big forehead, and torn braid on her skirt.

'Yes; but they don't thrill me as little Charlotte Bront's books do.
The brain is there, but the heart seems left out. I admire, but I don't
love, George Eliot; and her life is far sadder to me than Miss
Bront's, because, in spite of the genius, love, and fame, she
missed the light without which no soul is truly great, good, or
happy.'

'Yes'm, I know; but still it's so romantic and sort of new and
mysterious, and she was great in one sense. Her nerves and
dyspepsia do rather destroy the illusion; but I adore famous people
and mean to go and see all I can scare up in London some day.'

'You will find some of the best of them busy about just the work I
recommend to you; and if you want to see a great lady, I'll tell you
that Mrs Laurence means to bring one here today. Lady
Abercrombie is lunching with her, and after seeing the college is to
call on us. She especially wanted to see our sewing-school, as she
is interested in things of this sort, and gets them up at home.'

'Bless me! I always imagined lords and ladies did nothing but ride
round in a coach and six, go to balls, and be presented to the
Queen in cocked hats, and trains and feathers,' exclaimed an
artless young person from the wilds of Maine, whither an
illustrated paper occasionally wandered.

'Not at all; Lord Abercrombie is over here studying up our
American prison system, and my lady is busy with the schools
both very high-born, but the simplest and most sensible people I've
met this long time. They are neither of them young nor handsome,
and dress plainly; so don't expect anything splendid. Mr Laurence
was telling me last night about a friend of his who met my lord in
the hall, and owing to a rough greatcoat and a red face, mistook
him for a coachman, and said: "Now, my man, what do you want
here?" Lord Abercrombie mildly mentioned who he was, and that
he had come to dinner. And the poor host was much afflicted,
saying afterward: "Why didn't he wear his stars and garters? then a
fellow would know he was a lord."'

The girls laughed again, and a general rustle betrayed that each
was prinking a bit before the titled guest arrived. Even Mrs Jo
settled her collar, and Mrs Meg felt if her cap was right, while
Bess shook out her curls and Josie boldly consulted the glass; for
they were women, in spite of philosophy and philanthropy.

'Shall we all rise?' asked one girl, deeply impressed by the
impending honour.

'It would be courteous.'

'Shall we shake hands?'

'No, I'll present you en masse, and your pleasant faces will be
introduction enough.'

'I wish I'd worn my best dress. Ought to have told us,' whispered
Sally.

'Won't my folks be surprised when I tell them we have had a real
lady to call on us?' said another.

'Don't look as if you'd never seen a gentlewoman before, Milly. We
are not all fresh from the wilderness,' added the stately damsel
who, having Mayflower ancestors, felt that she was the equal of all
the crowned heads of Europe.

'Hush, she's coming! Oh, my heart, what a bonnet!' cried the gay
girl in a stage whisper; and every eye was demurely fixed upon the
busy hands as the door opened to admit Mrs Laurence and her
guest.

It was rather a shock to find, after the general introduction was
over, that this daughter of a hundred earls was a stout lady in a
plain gown, and a rather weather-beaten bonnet, with a bag of
papers in one hand and a note-book in the other. But the face was
full ~f benevolence, the sonorous voice very kind, the genial
manners very winning, and about the whole person an
indescribable air of high breeding which made beauty of no
consequence, costume soon forgotten, and the moment memorable
to the keen-eyed girls whom nothing escaped.

A little chat about the rise, growth, and success of this particular
class, and then Mrs Jo led the conversation to the English lady's
work, anxious to show her pupils how rank dignifies labour, and
charity blesses wealth.

It was good for these girls to hear of the evening-schools supported
and taught by women whom they knew and honoured; of Miss
Cobbe's eloquent protest winning the protection of the law for
abused wives; Mrs Butler saving the lost; Mrs Taylor, who devoted
one room in her historic house to a library for the servants; Lord
Shaftesbury, busy with his new tenement-houses in the slums of
London; of prison reforms; and all the brave work being done in
God's name by the rich and great for the humble and the poor. It
impressed them more than many quiet home lectures would have
done, and roused an ambition to help when their time should
come, well knowing that even in glorious America there is still
plenty to be done before she is what she should be   truly just, and
free, and great. They were also quick to see that Lady Abercrombie
treated all there as her equals, from stately Mrs Laurence, to little
Josie, taking notes of everything and privately resolving to have
some thick-soled English boots as soon as possible. No one would
have guessed that she had a big house in London, a castle in
Wales, and a grand country seat in Scotland, as she spoke of
Parnassus with admiration, Plumfield as a 'dear old home', and the
college as an honour to all concerned in it. At that, of course, every
head went up a little, and when my lady left, every hand was ready
for the hearty shake the noble Englishwoman gave them, with
words they long remembered:

'I am very pleased to see this much-neglected branch of a woman's
education so well conducted here, and I have to thank my friend
Mrs Laurence for one of the most charming pictures I've seen in
America   Penelope among her maids.'

A group of smiling faces watched the stout boots trudge away,
respectful glances followed the shabby bonnet till it was out of
sight, and the girls felt a truer respect for their titled guest than if
she had come in the coach and six, with all her diamonds on.

'I feel better about the "odd jobs" now. I only wish I could do them
as well as Lady Abercrombie does,' said one.

'I thanked my stars my buttonholes were nice, for she looked at
them and said: "Quite workmanlike, upon my word," added
another, feeling that her gingham gown had come to honour.

'Her manners were as sweet and kind as Mrs Brooke's. Not a bit
stiff or condescending, as I ex pected. I see now what you meant,
Mrs Bhaer, when you said once that well-bred people were the
same all the world over.'

Mrs Meg bowed her thanks for the compliment, and Mrs Bhaer
said:

'I know them when I see them, but never shall be a model of
deportment myself. I'm glad you enjoyed the little visit. Now, if
you young people don't want England to get ahead of us in many
ways, you must bestir yourselves and keep abreast; for our sisters
are in earnest, you see, and don't waste time worrying about their
sphere, but make it wherever duty calls them.'

'We will do our best, ma'am,' answered the girls heartily, and
trooped away with their work-baskets, feeling that though they
might never be Harriet Martineaus, Elizabeth Brownings, or
George Eliots, they might become noble, useful, and independent
women, and earn for themselves some sweet title from the grateful
lips of the poor, better than any a queen could bestow.

Chapter 18 CLASS DAY

The clerk of the weather evidently has a regard for young people,
and sends sunshine for class days as often as he can. An especially
lovely one shone over Plumfield as this interesting anniversary
came round, bringing the usual accompaniments of roses,
strawberries, white-gowned girls, beaming youths, proud friends,
and stately dignitaries full of well-earned satisfaction with the
yearly harvest. As Laurence College was a mixed one, the presence
of young women as students gave to the occasion a grace and
animation entirely wanting where the picturesque half of creation
appear merely as spectators. The hands that turned the pages of
wise books also possessed the skill to decorate the hall with
flowers; eyes tired with study shone with hospitable warmth on the
assembling guests; and under the white muslins beat hearts as full
of ambition, hope, and courage as those agitating the broadcloth of
the ruling sex.

College Hill, Parnassus, and old Plum swarmed with cheery faces,
as guests, students, and professors hurried to and fro in the
pleasant excitement of arriving and receiving. Everyone was
welcomed cordially, whether he rolled up in a fine carriage, or
trudged afoot to see the good son or daughter come to honour on
the happy day that rewarded many a mutual sacrifice. Mr Laurie
and his wife were on the reception committee, and their lovely
house was overflowing. Mrs Meg, with Daisy and Jo as aides, was
in demand among the girls, helping on belated toilettes, giving an
eye to spreads, and directing the decorations. Mrs Jo had her hands
full as President's lady, and the mother of Ted; for it took all the
power and skill of that energetic woman to get her son into his
Sunday best.

Not that he objected to be well arrayed; far from it; he adored good
clothes, and owing to his great height already revelled in a
dress-suit, bequeathed him by a dandy friend. The effect was very
funny; but he would wear it in spite of the jeers of his mates, and
sighed vainly for a beaver, because his stern parent drew the line
there. He pleaded that English lads of ten wore them and were 'no
end nobby'; but his mother only answered, with a consoling pat of
the yellow mane:

'My child, you are absurd enough now; if I let you add a tall hat,
Plumfield wouldn't hold either of us, such would be the scorn and
derision of all beholders. Content yourself with looking like the
ghost of a waiter, and don't ask for the most ridiculous head-gear
in the known world.'

Denied this noble badge of manhood, Ted soothed his wounded
soul by appearing in collars of an amazing height and stiffness, and
ties which were the wonder of all female eyes. This freak was a
sort of vengeance on his hard-hearted mother; for the collars drove
the laundress to despair, never being just right, and the ties
required such art in the tying that three women sometimes
laboured long before   like Beau Brummel

     he turned from a heap of 'failures' with the welcome words:
'That will do.' Rob was devoted on these trying occasions, his own
toilet being distinguished only by its speed, simplicity, and
neatness. Ted was usually in a frenzy before he was suited, and
roars, whistles, commands, and groans were heard from the den
wherein the Lion raged and the Lamb patiently toiled. Mrs Jo bore
it till boots were hurled and a rain of hair-brushes set in, then,
fearing for the safety of her eldest, she would go to the rescue, and
by a wise mixture of fun and authority finally succeed in
persuading Ted that he was 'a thing of beauty', if not 'a joy for
ever'. At last he would stalk majestically forth, imprisoned in
collars compared to which those worn by Dickens's afflicted Biler
were trifles not worth mentioning. The dresscoat was a little loose
in the shoulders, but allowed a noble expanse of glossy bosom to
be seen, and with a delicate handkerchief negligently drooping at
the proper angle, had a truly fine effect. Boots that shone, and
likewise pinched, appeared at one end of the 'long, black
clothes-pin'   as Josie called him   and a youthful but solemn face
at the other, carried at an angle which, if long continued, would
have resulted in spinal curvature. Light gloves, a cane, and   oh,
bitter drop in the cup of joy!   an ignominious straw hat, not to
mention a choice floweret in the buttonhole, and a festoon of
watchguard below, finished off this impressive boy.

'How's that for style?' he asked, appearing to his mother and
cousins whom he was to escort to the hall on this particular
occasion.

A shout of laughter greeted him, followed by exclamations of
horror; for he had artfully added the little blond moustache he
often wore when acting. It was very becoming, and seemed the
only balm to heal the wound made by the loss of the beloved hat.

'Take it off this moment, you audacious boy! What would your
father say to such a prank on this day when we must all behave our
best?' said Mrs Jo, trying to frown, but privately thinking that
among the many youths about her none were so beautiful and
original as her long son.

'Let him wear it, Aunty; it's so becoming. No one will ever guess
he isn't eighteen at least,' cried Josie, to whom disguise of any sort
was always charming.

'Father won't observe it; he'll be absorbed in his big-wigs and the
girls. No matter if he does, he'll enjoy the joke and introduce me as
his oldest son. Rob is nowhere when I'm in full fig'; and Ted took
the stage with a tragic stalk, like Hamlet in a tail-coat and choker.

'My son, obey me!' and when Mrs Jo spoke in that tone her word
was law. Later, however, the moustache appeared, and many
strangers firmly believed that there were three young Bhaers. So
Ted found one ray of joy to light his gloom.

Mr Bhaer was a proud and happy man when, at the appointed hour,
he looked down upon the parterre of youthful faces before him,
thinking of the 'little gardens' in which he had hopefully and
faithfully sowed good seed years ago, and from which this
beautiful harvest seemed to have sprung. Mr March's fine old face
shone with the serenest satisfaction, for this was the dream of his
life fulfilled after patient waiting; and the love and reverence in
the countenances of the eager young men and women looking up
at him plainly showed that the reward he coveted was his in fullest
measure. Laurie always effaced himself on these occasions as
much as courtesy would permit; for everyone spoke gratefully in
ode, poem, and oration of the founder of the college and noble
dispenser of his beneficence. The three sisters beamed with pride
as they sat among the ladies, enjoying, as only women can, the
honour done the men they loved; while 'the original Plums', as the
younger ones called themselves, regarded the whole affair as their
work, receiving the curious, admiring, or envious glances of
strangers with a mixture of dignity and delight rather comical to
behold.

The music was excellent, and well it might be when Apollo waved
the baton. The poems were   as usual on such occasions   of varied
excellence, as the youthful speakers tried to put old truths into new
words, and made them forceful by the enthusiasm of their earnest
faces and fresh voices. It was beautiful to see the eager interest
with which the girls listened to some brilliant brother-student, and
applauded him with a rustle as of wind over a bed of flowers. It
was still more significant and pleasant to watch the young men's
faces when a slender white figure stood out against the background
of black-coated dignitaries, and with cheeks that flushed and
paled, and lips that trembled till earnest purpose conquered
maiden fear, spoke to them straight out of a woman's heart and
brain concerning the hopes and doubts, the aspirations and rewards
all must know, desire, and labour for. This clear, sweet voice
seemed to reach and rouse all that was noblest in the souls of these
youths, and to set a seal upon the years of comradeship which
made them sacred and memorable for ever.

Alice Heath's oration was unanimously pronounced the success of
the day; for without being flowery or sentimental, as is too apt to
be the case with these first efforts of youthful orators, it was
earnest, sensible, and so inspiring that she left the stage in a storm
of applause, the good fellows being as much fired by her stirring
appeal to 'march shoulder to shoulder', as if she had chanted the
'Marseillaise' then and there. One young man was so excited that
he nearly rushed out of his seat to receive her as she hastened to
hide herself among her mates, who welcomed her with faces full
of tender pride and tearful eye. A prudent sister detained him,
however, and in a moment he was able to listen with composure to
the President's remarks.

They were worth listening to, for Mr Bhaer spoke like a father to
the children whom he was dismissing to the battle of life; and his
tender, wise, and helpful words lingered in their hearts long after
the praise was forgotten. Then came other exercises peculiar to
Plum-field, and the end. Why the roof did not fly off when the
sturdy lungs of the excited young men pealed out the closing hymn
will for ever be a mystery; but it remained firm, and only the
fading garlands vibrated as the waves of music rolled up and died
away, leaving sweet echoes to haunt the place for another year.

Dinners and spreads consumed the afternoon, and at sunset came a
slight lull as everyone sought some brief repose before the
festivities of the evening began. The President's reception was one
of the enjoyable things in store, also dancing on Parnassus, and as
much strolling, singing, and flirting, as could be corn- pressed into
a few hours by youths and maidens just out of school.

Carriages were rolling about, and gay groups on piazzas, lawns,
and window-seats idly speculated as to who the distinguished
guests might be. The appearance of a very dusty vehicle loaded
with trunks at Mr Bhaer's hospitably open door caused much
curious comment among the loungers, especially as two rather
foreign-looking gentlemen sprang out, followed by two young
ladies, all four being greeted with cries of joy and much embracing
by the Bhaers. Then they all disappeared into the house, the
luggage followed, and the watchers were left to wonder who the
mysterious strangers were, till a fair collegian declared that they
must be the Professor's nephews, one of whom was expected on
his wedding journey.

She was right; Franz proudly presented his blonde and buxom
bride, and she was hardly kissed and blessed when Emil led up his
bonny English Mary, with the rapturous announcement:

'Uncle, Aunt, Jo, here's another daughter! Have you room for my
wife, too?'

There could be no doubt of that; and Mary was with difficulty
rescued from the glad embraces of her new relatives, who,
remembering all the young pair had suffered together, felt that this
was the natural and happy ending of the long voyage so perilously
begun.

'But why not tell us, and let us be ready for two brides instead of
one?' asked Mrs Jo, looking as usual rather demoralizing in a
wrapper and crimping-pins, having rushed down from her
chamber, where she was preparing for the labours of the evening.

'Well, I remembered what a good joke you all consid ered Uncle
Laurie's marriage, and I thought I'd give you another nice little
surprise,' laughed Emil. 'I'm off duty, and it seemed best to take
advantage of wind and tide, and come along as convoy to the old
boy here. We hoped to get in last night, but couldn't fetch it, so
here we are in time for the end of the jollification, anyway.'

'Ah, my sons, it is too feeling-full to see you both so happy and
again in the old home. I haf no words to outpour my gratitude, and
can only ask of the dear Gott in Himmel to bless and keep you all,'
cried Professor Bhaer, trying to gather all four into his arms at
once, while tears rolled down his cheeks, and his English failed
him.

An April shower cleared the air and relieved the full hearts of the
happy family; then of course everyone began to talk   Franz and
Ludmilla in German with uncle, Emil and Mary with the aunts;
and round this group gathered the young folk, clamouring to hear
all about the wreck, and the rescue, and the homeward voyage. It
was a very different story from the written one; and as they
listened to Emil's graphic words, with Mary's soft voice breaking
in now and then to add some fact that brought out the courage,
patience, and self-sacrifice he so lightly touched upon, it became a
solemn and pathetic thing to see and hear these happy creatures
tell of that great danger and deliverance.

'I never hear the patter of rain now that I don't want to say my
prayers; and as for women, I'd like to take my hat off to every one
of 'em, for they are braver than any man I ever saw,' said Emil,
with the new gravity that was as becoming to him as the new
gentleness with which he treated everyone. 'If women are brave,
some men are as tender and self-sacrificing as women. I know one
who in the night slipped his share of food into a girl's pocket,
though starving himself, and sat for hours rocking a sick man in
his arms that he might get a little sleep. No, love, I will tell, and
you must let me!' cried Mary, holding in both her own the hand he
laid on her lips to silence her.

'Only did my duty. If that torment had lasted much longer I might
have been as bad as poor Barry and the boatswain. Wasn't that an
awful night?' And Emil shuddered as he recalled it.

'Don't think of it, dear. 'Tell about the happy days on the Urania,
when papa grew better and we were all safe and homeward bound,'
said Mary, with the trusting look and comforting touch which
seemed to banish the dark and recall the bright side of that terrible
experience.

Emil cheered up at once, and sitting with his arm about his 'dear
lass', in true sailor fashion told the happy ending of the tale.

'Such a jolly old time as we had at Hamburg! Uncle Hermann
couldn't do enough for the captain, and while mamma took care of
him, Mary looked after me. I had to go into dock for repairs; fire
hurt my eyes, and watching for a sail and want of sleep made 'em
as hazy as a London fog. She was pilot and brought me in all right,
you see, only I couldn't part company, so she came aboard as first
mate, and I'm bound straight

for glory now.'

'Hush! that's silly, dear,' whispered Mary, trying in her turn to stop
him, with English shyness about tender topics. But he took the soft
hand in his, and proudly surveying the one ring it wore, went on
with the air of an admiral aboard his flagship.

'The captain proposed waiting a spell; but I told him we weren't
like to see any rougher weather than we'd pulled through together,
and if we didn't know one another after such a year as this, we
never should. I was sure I shouldn't be worth my pay without this
hand on the wheel; so I had my way, and my brave little woman
has shipped for the long voyage. God bless her!'

'Shall you really sail with him?' asked Daisy, admiring her courage,
but shrinking with cat-like horror from the water.

'I'm not afraid,' answered Mary, with a loyal smile. 'I've proved my
captain in fair weather and in foul, and if he is ever wrecked again,
I'd rather be with him than waiting and watching ashore.'

'A true woman, and a born sailor's wife! You are a happy man,
Emil, and I'm sure this trip will be a prosperous one,' cried Mrs Jo,
delighted with the briny flavour of this courtship. 'Oh, my dear
boy, I always felt you'd come back, and when everyone else
despaired I never gave up, but insisted that you were clinging to
the main-top jib somewhere on that dreadful sea'; and Mrs Jo
illustrated her faith by grasping Emil with a truly Pillycoddian
gesture.

'Of course I was!' answered Emil heartily; 'and my "main-top jib"
in this case was the thought of what you and Uncle said to me.
That kept me up; and among the million thoughts that came to me
during those long nights none was clearer than the idea of the red
strand, you remember   English navy, and all that. I liked the
notion, and resolved that if a bit of my cable was left afloat, the
red stripe should be there.' 'And it was, my dear, it was! Captain
Hardy testifies to that, and here is your reward'; and Mrs Jo kissed
Mary with a maternal tenderness which betrayed that she liked the
English rose better than the blue-eyed German Kornblumen, sweet
and modest though it

was.

Emil surveyed the little ceremony with complacency, saying, as he
looked about the room which he never thought to see again: 'Odd,
isn't it, how clearly trifles come back to one in times of danger? As
we floated there, half-starved, and in despair, I used to think I
heard the bells ringing here, and Ted tramping downstairs, and you
calling, "Boys, boys, it's time to get up!" I actually smelt the coffee
we used to have, and one night I nearly cried when I woke from a
dream of Asia's ginger cookies. I declare, it was one of the bitterest
disappointments of my life to face hunger with that spicy smell in
my nostrils. If you've got any, do give me one!'

A pitiful murmur broke from all the aunts and cousins, and Emil
was at once borne away to feast on the desired cookies, a supply
always being on hand. Mrs Jo and her sister joined the other group,
glad to hear what Franz was saying about Nat.

'The minute I saw how thin and shabby he was, I knew that
something was wrong; but he made light of it, and was so happy
over our visit and news that I let him off with a brief confession,
and went to Professor Baumgarten and Bergmann. From them I
learned the whole story of his spending more money than he ought
and trying to atone for it by unnecessary work and sacrifice.
Baumgarten thought it would do him good, so kept his secret till I
came. It did him good, and he's paid his debts and earned his bread
by the sweat of his brow, like an honest fellow.'

'I like that much in Nat. It is, as I said, a lesson, and he learns it
well. He proves himself a man, and has deserved the place
Bergmann offers him,' said Mr Bhaer, looking well pleased as
Franz added some facts already recorded.

'I told you, Meg, that he had good stuff in him, and love for Daisy
would keep him straight. Dear lad, I wish I had him here this
moment!' cried Mrs Jo, forgetting in delight the doubts and
anxieties which had troubled her for months past.

'I am very glad, and suppose I shall give in as I always do,
especially now that the epidemic rages so among us. You and Emil
have set all their heads in a ferment, and Josie will be demanding a
lover before I can turn round,' answered Mrs Meg, in a tone of
despair.

But her sister saw that she was touched by Nat's trials, and
hastened to add the triumphs, that the victory might be complete,
for success is always charming.

'This offer of Herr Bergmann is a good one, isn't it?' she asked,
though Mr Laurie had already satisfied her on that point when
Nat's letter brought the news.

'Very fine in every way. Nat will get capital drill in Bachmeister's
orchestra, see London in a delightful way, and if he suits come
home with them, well started among the violins. No great honour,
but a sure thing and a step up. I congratulated him, and he was
very jolly over it, saying, like the true lover he is: "Tell Daisy; be
sure and tell her all about it." I'll leave that to you, Aunt Meg, and
you can also break it gently to her that the old boy had a fine blond
beard. Very becoming; hides his weak mouth, and gives a noble air
to his big eyes and "Mendelssohnian brow", as a gushing girl
called it. Ludmilla has a photo of it for you.'

This amused them; and they listened to many other interesting bits
of news which kind Franz, even in his own happiness, had not
forgotten to remember for his friend's sake. He talked so well, and
painted Nat's patient and pathetic shifts so vividly, that Mrs Meg
was half won; though if she had learned of the Minna episode and
the fiddling in beer-gardens and streets, she might not have
relented so soon. She stored up all she heard, however, and,
womanlike, promised herself a delicious talk with Daisy, in which
she would allow herself to melt by degrees, and perhaps change
the doubtful 'We shall see' to a cordial 'He has done well; be
happy, dear'.

In the midst of this agreeable chat the sudden striking of a clock
recalled Mrs Jo from romance to reality, and she exclaimed, with a
clutch at her crimping-pins:

'My blessed people, you must eat and rest; and I must dress, or
receive in this disgraceful rig. Meg, will you take Ludmilla and
Mary upstairs and see to them? Franz knows the way to the
dining-room. Fritz, come with me and be made tidy, for what with
heat and emotion, we are both perfect wrecks.'

Chapter 19 WHITE ROSES

While the travellers refreshed, and Mrs President struggled into
her best gown, Josie ran into the garden to gather flowers for the
brides. The sudden arrival of these interesting beings had quite
enchanted the romantic girl, and her head was full of heroic
rescues, tender admiration, dramatic situations, and feminine
wonder as to whether the lovely creatures would wear their veils or
not. She was standing before a great bush of white roses, culling
the most perfect for the bouquets which she meant to tie with the
ribbon festooned over her arm, and lay on the toilette tables of the
new cousins, as a delicate attention. A step startled her, and
looking up she saw her brother coming down the path with folded
arms, bent head, and the absent air of one absorbed in deep
thought.

'Sophy Wackles,' said the sharp child, with a superior smile, as she
sucked her thumb just pricked by a too eager pull at the thorny
branches.

'What are you at here, Mischief?' asked Demi, with an Irvingesque
start, as he felt rather than saw a disturbing influence in his
day-dream.

'Getting flowers for "our brides". Don't you wish you had one?'
answered Josie, to whom the word 'mischief' suggested her
favourite amusement. 'A bride or a flower?' asked Demi calmly,
though he eyed the blooming bush as if it had a sudden and
unusual interest for him.

'Both; you get the one, and I'll give you the other.'

'Wish I could!' and Demi picked a little bud, with a sigh that went
to Josie's warm heart.

'Why don't you, then? It's lovely to see people so happy. Now's a
good time to do it if you ever mean to. She will be going away for
ever soon.'

'Who?' and Demi pulled a half-opened bud, with a sudden colour
in his own face; which sign of confusion delighted little Jo.

'Don't be a hypocrite. You know I mean Alice. Now, Jack, I'm fond
of you, and want to help; it's so interesting   all these lovers and
weddings and things, and we ought to have our share. So you take
my advice and speak up like a man, and make sure of Alice before
she goes.'

Demi laughed at the seriousness of the small girl's advice; but he
liked it, and showed that it suited him by saying blandly, instead of
snubbing her as usual:

'You are very kind, child. Since you are so wise, could you give me
a hint how I'd better 'speak up', as you elegantly express it?'

'Oh, well, there are various ways, you know. In plays the lovers go
down on their knees; but that's awkward when they have long legs.
Ted never does it well, though I drill him for hours. You could say,
"Be mine, be mine!" like the old man who threw cucumbers over
the wall to Mrs Nickleby, if you want to be gay and easy; or you
could write a poetical pop. You've tried ~t, I dare say.'

'But seriously, Jo, I do love Alice, and I think she knows it. I want
to tell her so; but I lose my head when I try, and don't care to make
a fool of myself. Thought you might suggest some pretty way; you
read so much poetry and are so romantic.'

Demi tried to express himself clearly, but forgot his dignity and his
usual reserve in the sweet perplexity of his love, and asked his
little sister to teach him how to put the question which a single
word can answer. The arrival of his happy cousins had scattered all
his wise plans and brave resolutions to wait still longer. The
Christmas play had given him courage to hope, and the oration
today had filled him with tender pride; but the sight of those
blooming brides and beaming grooms was too much for him, and
he panted to secure his Alice without an hour's delay. Daisy was
his confidante in all things but this; a brotherly feeling of
sympathy had kept him from telling her his hopes, because her
own were forbidden. His mother was rather jealous of any girl he
admired; but knowing that she liked Alice, he loved on and
enjoyed his secret alone, meaning soon to tell her all about it.

Now suddenly Josie and the rose-bush seemed to suggest a speedy
end to his tender perplexities; and he was moved to accept her aid
as the netted lion did that of the mouse.

'I think I'll write,' he was slowly beginning, after a pause during
which both were trying to strike out a new and brilliant idea.

'I've got it! perfectly lovely! just suit her, and you too, being a
poet!' cried Josie, with a skip.

'What is it? Don't be ridiculous, please,' begged the bashful lover,
eager, but afraid of this sharp-tongued bit of womanhood. 'I read in
one of Miss Edgeworth's stories about a man who offers three
roses to his lady   a bud, a half-blown, and a full-blown rose. I
don't remember which she took; but it's a pretty way; and Alice
knows about it because she was there when we read it. Here are all
kinds; you've got the two buds, pick the sweetest rose you can find,
and I'll tie them up and put them in her room. She is coming to
dress with Daisy, so I can do it nicely.'

Demi mused a moment with his eyes on the bridal bush, and a
smile came over his face so unlike any it had ever worn before,
that Josie was touched, and looked away as if she had no right to
see the dawn of the great passion which, while it lasts, makes a
young man as happy as a god.

'Do it,' was all he said, and gathered a full-blown rose to finish his
floral love-message.

Charmed to have a finger in this romantic pie, Josie tied a graceful
bow of ribbon about the stems, and finished her last nosegay with
much content, while Demi wrote upon a card:

DEAR ALICE, You know what the flowers mean. Will you wear
one, or all tonight, and make me still prouder, fonder, and happier
than I am?

Yours entirely,

JOHN

Offering this to his sister, he said in a tone that made her feel the
deep importance of her mission:

'I trust you, Jo. This means everything to me. No jokes, dear, if you
love me.'

Josie's answer was a kiss that promised all things; and then she ran
away to do her 'gentle spiriting', like Ariel, leaving Demi to dream
among the roses like Ferdinand.

Mary and Ludmilla were charmed with their bouquets; and the
giver had the delight of putting some of the flowers into the dark
hair and the light as she played maid at the toilettes of 'our brides',
which consoled her for a disappointment in the matter of veils.

No one helped Alice dress; for Daisy was in the next room with
her mother; and not even their loving eyes saw the welcome which
the little posy received, nor the tears and smiles and blushes that
came and went as she read the note and pondered what answer she
should give. There was no doubt about the one she wished to give;
but duty held her back; for at home there was an invalid mother
and an old father. She was needed there, with all the help she
could now bring by the acquirements four years of faithful study
had given her. Love looked very sweet, and a home of her own
with John a little heaven on earth; but not yet. And she slowly laid
away the full-blown rose as she sat before the mirror, thinking over
the great question of her life.

Was it wise and kind to ask him to wait, to bind him by any
promise, or even to put into words the love and honour she felt for
him? No; it would be more generous to make the sacrifice alone,
and spare him the pain of hope deferred. He was young; he would
forget; and she would do her duty better, perhaps, if no impatient
lover waited for her. With eyes that saw but dimly, and a hand that
lingered on the stem he had stripped of thorns, she laid the
half-blown flower by the rose, and asked herself if even the little
bud might be worn. It looked very poor and pale beside the others;
yet being in the self-sacrificing mood which real love brings, she
felt that even a small hope was too much to give, if she could not
follow it up with more.

As she sat looking sadly down on the symbols of an affection that
grew dearer every moment, she listened half unconsciously to the
murmur of voices in the adjoining room. Open windows, thin
partitions, and the stillness of summer twilight made it impossible
to help hearing, and in a few moments more she could not refrain;
for they were talking of John.

'So nice of Ludmilla to bring us all bottles of real German cologne!
Just what we need after this tiring day! Be sure John has his! He
likes it so!'

'Yes, mother. Did you see him jump up when Alice ended her
oration? He'd have gone to her if I hadn't held him back. I don't
wonder he was pleased and proud. I spoilt my gloves clapping, and
quite forgot my dislike of seeing women on platforms, she was so
earnest and unconscious and sweet after the first moment.'

'Has he said anything to you, dear?'

'No; and I guess why. The kind boy thinks it would make me
unhappy. It wouldn't. But I know his ways; so I wait, and hope all
will go well with him.'

'It must. No girl in her senses would refuse our John, though he
isn't rich, and never will be. Daisy, I've been longing to tell you
what he did with his money. He told me last night, and I've had no
time since to tell you. He sent poor young Barton to the hospital,
and kept him there till his eyes were saved   a costly thing to do.
But the man can work now and care for his old parents. He was in
despair, sick and poor, and too proud to beg; and our dear boy
found it out, and took every penny he had, and never told even his
mother till she made him.'

Alice did not hear what Daisy answered, for she was busy with her
own emotions   happy ones now, to judge from the smile that
shone in her eyes and the decided gesture with which she put the
little bud in her bosom, as if she said: 'He deserves some reward
for that good deed, and he shall have it.'

Mrs Meg was speaking, and still of John, when she could hear
again:

'Some people would call it unwise and reckless,

when John has so little; but I think his first investment

a safe and good one, for "he who giveth to the poor

lendeth to the Lord"; and I was so pleased and proud,

I wouldn't spoil it by offering him a penny.'

'It is his having nothing to offer that keeps him silent, I think. He is
so honest, he won't ask till he has much to give. But he forgets that
love is everything. I know he's rich in that; I see and feel it; and
any woman should be glad to get it.'

'Right, dear. I felt just so, and was willing to work and wait with
and for my John.'

'So she will be, and I hope they will find it out. But she is so
dutiful and good, I'm afraid she won't let herself be happy. You
would like it, mother?'

'Heartily; for a better, nobler girl doesn't live. She is all I want for
my son; and I don't mean to lose the dear, brave creature if I can
help it. Her heart is big enough for both love and duty; and they
can wait more happily if they do it together   for wait they must, of
course.' 'I'm so glad his choice suits you, mother, and he is spared
the saddest sort of disappointment.'

Daisy's voice broke there; and a sudden rustle, followed by a soft
murmur, seemed to tell that she was in her mother's arms, seeking
and finding comfort there.

Alice heard no more, and shut her window with a guilty feeling but
a shining face; for the proverb about listeners failed here, and she
had learned more than she dared to hope. Things seemed to change
suddenly; she felt that her heart was large enough for both love and
duty; she knew now that she would be welcomed by mother and
sister; and the memory of Daisy's less happy fate, Nat's weary
probation, the long delay, and possible separation for ever   all
came before her so vividly that prudence seemed cruelty;
self-sacrifice, sentimental folly; and anything but the whole truth,
disloyalty to her lover. As she thought thus, the half-blown rose
went to join the bud; and then, after a pause, she slowly kissed the
perfect rose, and added it to the tell-tale group, saying to herself
with a sort of sweet solemnity, as if the words were a vow:

'I'll love and work and wait with and for my John.'

It was well for her that Demi was absent when she stole down to
join the guests who soon began to flow through the house in a
steady stream. The new brightness which touched her usually
thoughtful face was easily explained by the congratulations she
received as orator, and the slight agitation observable, when a
fresh batch of gentlemen approached soon passed, as none of them
noticed the flowers she wore over a very happy heart. Demi
meantime was escorting certain venerable personages about the
college, and helping his grandfather entertain them with discussion
of the Socratic method of instruction, Pythagoras, Pestalozzi,
Froebel, and the rest, whom he devoutly wished at the bottom of
the Red Sea, and no wonder, for his head and his heart were full of
love and roses, hopes and fears. He piloted the 'potent, grave, and
reverend seigniors' safely down to Plumfield at last, and landed
them before his uncle and aunt Bhaer, who were receiving in state,
the one full of genuine delight in all men and things, the other
suffering martyrdom with a smile, as she stood shaking hand after
hand, and affecting utter unconsciousness of the sad fact that
ponderous Professor Plock had camped upon the train of her state
and festival velvet gown.

With a long sigh of relief Demi glanced about him for the beloved
girl. Most persons would have looked some time before any
particular angel could be discovered among the white-robed throng
in parlours, hall, and study; but his eye went   like the needle to the
pole   to the corner where a smooth dark head, with its braided
crown, rose like a queen's, he thought, above the crowd which
surrounded her. Yes, she has a flower at her throat; one, two, oh,
blessed sight! he saw it all across the room, and gave a rapturous
sigh which caused Miss Perry's frizzled crop to wave with a sudden
gust. He did not see the rose, for it was hidden by a fold of lace;
and it was well, perhaps, that bliss came by instalments, or he
might have electrified the assembled multitude by flying to his
idol, there being no Daisy to clutch him by the coat-tail. A stout
lady, thirsting for information, seized him at that thrilling moment,
and he was forced to point out celebrities with a saintly patience
which deserved a better reward than it received; for a certain
absence of mind and incoherence of speech at times caused the
ungrateful dowager to whisper to the first friend she met after he
had escaped:

'I saw no wine at any of the spreads; but it is plain that young
Brooke has had too much. Quite gentlemanly, but evidently a trifle
intoxicated, my dear.'

Ah, so he was! but with a diviner wine than any that ever sparkled
at a class-day lunch, though many collegians know the taste of it;
and when the old lady was disposed of, he gladly turned to find the
young one, bent on having a single word. He saw her standing by
the piano now, idly turning over music as she talked with several
gentlemen. Hiding his impatience under an air of scholastic
repose, Demi hovered near, ready to advance when the happy
moment came, wondering meantime why elderly persons persisted
in absorbing young ones instead of sensibly sitting in corners with
their contemporaries. The elderly persons in question retired at
length, but only to be replaced by two impetuous youths who
begged Miss Heath to accompany them to Parnassus and join the
dance. Demi thirsted for their blood, but was appeased by hearing
George and Dolly say, as they lingered a moment after her refusal:

'Really, you know, I'm quite converted to co-education and almost
wish I'd remained here. It gives a grace to study, a sort of relish
even to Greek to see charming girls at it,' said Stuffy, who found
the feast of learning so dry, any sauce was welcome; and he felt as
if he had discovered a new one.

'Yes, by Jove! we fellows will have to look out or you'll carry off
all the honours. You were superb today, and held us all like magic,
though it was so hot there, I really think I couldn't have stood it for
anyone else,' added Dolly, labouring to be gallant and really
offering a touching proof of devotion; for the heat melted his
collar, took the curl out of his hair, and ruined his gloves.

'There is room for all; and if you will leave us the books, we will
cheerfully yield the baseball, boating, dancing, and flirting, which
seem to be the branches you prefer,' answered Alice sweetly.

'Ah, now you are too hard upon us! We can't grind all the time and
you ladies don't seem to mind taking a turn at the two latter
"branches" you mention,' returned Dolly, with a glance at George
which plainly said, 'I had her there.'

'Some of us do in our first years. Later we give up childish things,
you see. Don't let me keep you from Parnassus'; and a smiling nod
dismissed them, smarting under the bitter consciousness of youth.

'You got it there, Doll. Better not try to fence with these superior
girls. Sure to be routed, horse, foot, and dragoons,' said Stuffy,
lumbering away, somewhat cross with too many spreads.

'So deuced sarcastic! Don't believe she's much older than we are.
Girls grow up quicker, so she needn't put on airs and talk like a
grandmother,' muttered Dolly, feeling that he had sacrificed his
kids upon the altar of an ungrateful Pallas.

'Come along and let's find something to eat. I'm faint with so much
talking. Old Plock cornered me and made my head spin with Kant
and Hegel and that lot.'

'I promised Dora West I'd give her a turn. Must look her up; she's a
jolly little thing, and doesn't bother about anything but keeping in
step.'

And arm in arm the boys strolled away, leaving Alice to read
music as diligently as if society had indeed no charms for her. As
she bent to turn a page, the eager young man behind the piano saw
the rose and was struck speechless with delight. A moment he
gazed, then hastened to seize the coveted place before a new
detachment of bores arrived.

'Alice, I can't believe it   did you understand   how shall I ever
thank you?' murmured Demi, bending as if he, too, read the song,
not a note or word of which did he see, however.

'Hush! not now. I understood   I don't deserve it   we are too young,
we must wait, but   I'm very proud and happy, John!'

What would have happened after that tender whisper I tremble to
think, if Tom Bangs had not come bustling up, with the cheerful
remark:

'Music? just the thing. People are thinning out, and we all want a
little refreshment. My brain fairly reels with the 'ologies and 'isms
I've heard discussed tonight. Yes, give us this; sweet thing! Scotch
songs are always charming.'

Demi glowered; but the obtuse boy never saw it, and Alice, feeling
that this would be a safe vent for sundry unruly emotions, sat down
at once, and sang the song which gave her answer better than she
could have done:    BIDE A WEE

'The puir auld folk at home, ye mind,

Are frail and failing sair;

And weel I ken they'd miss me, lad,

Gin I come hame nae mair.

The grist is out, the times are hard,

The kine are only three;

I canna leave the auld folk now.

We'd better bide a wee.

'Ifear me sair they're failing baith;

For when I sit apart,

They talk o' Heaven so earnestly,

It welinigh breaks my heart.

So, laddie, dinna urge me now,

It surely winna be;

I canna leave the auld folk yet.

We'd better bide a wee.'

The room was very still before the first verse ended; and Alice
skipped the next, fearing she could not get through; for John's eyes
were on her, showing that he knew she sang for him and let the
plaintive little ballad tell what her reply must be. He took it as she
meant it, and smiled at her so happily that her heart got the better
of her voice, and she rose abruptly, saying something about the
heat.

'Yes, you are tired; come out and rest, my dearest'; and with a
masterful air Demi took her into the starlight, leaving Tom to stare
after them winking as if a sky-rocket had suddenly gone off under
his nose.

'Bless my soul! the Deacon really meant business last summer and
never told me. Won't Dora laugh?' And Tom departed in hot haste
to impart and exult over his discovery.

What was said in the garden was never exactly known; but the
Brooke family sat up very late that night, and any curious eye at
the window would have seen Demi receiving the homage of his
womankind as he told his little romance. Josie took great credit to
herself in the matter, insisting that she had made the match; Daisy
was full of the sweetest sympathy and joy, and Mrs Meg so happy
that when Jo had gone to dream of bridal veils, and Demi sat in his
room blissfully playing the air of 'Bide a Wee', she had her talk
about Nat, ending with her arms round her dutiful daughter and
these welcome words as her reward:

'Wait till Nat coma home, find thei~ my good girl shall wear white
roses too.'

Chapter 20 LIFE FOR LIFE

The summer days that followed were full of rest and pleasure for
young and old, as they did the honours of Plumfield to their happy
guests. While Franz and Emil were busy with the affairs of Uncle
Hermann and Captain Hardy, Mary and Ludmilla made friends
everywhere; for, though very unlike, both were excellent and
charming girls. Mrs Meg and Daisy found the German bride a
Hausfrau after their own hearts, and had delightful times learning
new dishes, hearing about the semi-yearly washes and the splendid
linen-room at Hamburg, or discussing domestic life in all its
branches. Ludmilla not only taught, but learned, many things, and
went home with many new and useful ideas in her blonde head.

Mary had seen so much of the world that she was unusually lively
for an English girl; while her various accomplishments made her a
most agreeable companion. Much good sense gave her ballast; and
the late experiences of danger and happiness added a sweet gravity
at times, which contrasted well with her natural gaiety. Mrs Jo was
quite satisfied with Emil's choice, and felt sure this true and tender
pilot would bring him safe to port through fair or stormy weather.
She had feared that Franz would settle down into a comfort- able,
moneymaking burgher, and be content with that; but she soon saw
that his love of music and his placid Ludmilla put much poetry
into his busy life, and kept it from being too prosaic. So she felt at
rest about these boys, and enjoyed their visit with real, maternal
satisfaction; parting with them in September most regretfully, yet
hopefully, as they sailed away to the new life that lay before them.

Demi's engagement was confided to the immediate family only, as
both were pronounced too young to do anything but love and wait.
They were so happy that time seemed to stand still for them, and
after a blissful week they parted bravely   Alice to home duties,
with a hope that sustained and cheered her through many trials;
and John to his business, full of a new ardour which made all
things possible when such a reward was offered.

Daisy rejoiced over them, and was never tired of hearing her
brother's plans for the future. Her own hope soon made her what
she used to be   a cheery, busy creature, with a smile, kind word,
and helping hand for all; and as she went singing about the house
again, her mother felt that the right remedy for past sadness had
been found. The dear Pelican still had doubts and fears, but kept
them wisely to herself, preparing sundry searching tests to be
applied when Nat came home, and keeping a sharp eye on the
letters from London; for some mysterious hint had flown across
the sea, and Daisy's content seemed reflected in Nat's present
cheerful state of mind.

Having passed through the Werther period, and tried a little Faust
of which experience he spoke to his Marguerite as if it had
included an acquaintance with Mephistopheles, Blocksburg, and
Auerbach's wine-cellar   he now felt that he was a Wilhelm
Meister, serving his apprenticeship to the great masters of life. As
she knew the truth of his small sins and honest repentance, Daisy
only smiled at the mixture of love and philosophy he sent her,
knowing that it was impossible for a young man to live in
Germany without catching the German spirit.

'His heart is all right; and his head will soon grow clear when he
gets out of the fog of tobacco, beer, and metaphysics he's been
living in. England will wake up his common sense, and good salt
air blow his little follies all away,' said Mrs Jo, much pleased with
the good prospects of her violinist   whose return was delayed till
spring, to his private regret, but professional advancement.

Josie had a month with Miss Cameron at the seaside, and threw
herself so heartily into the lesson given her that her energy,
promise, and patience laid the foundation of a friendship which
was of infinite value to her in the busy, brilliant years to come; for
little Jo's instincts were right; and the dramatic talent of the
Marches was to blossom by and by into an actress, virtuous, and
beloved.

Tom and his Dora were peacefully ambling altar-ward; for Bangs
senior was so afraid his son would change his mind again and try a
third profession, that he gladly consented to an early marriage, as a
sort of anchor to hold the mercurial Thomas fast. Aforesaid
Thomas could not complain of cold shoulders now; for Dora was a
most devoted and adoring little mate, and made life so pleasant to
him that his gift for getting into scrapes seemed lost, and he bade
fair to become a thriving man, with undeniable talent for the
business he had chosen.

'We shall be married in the autumn, and live with my father for a
while. The governor is getting on, you know, and my wife and I
must look after him. Later we shall have an establishment of our
own,' was a favourite speech of his about this time, and usually
received with smiles; for the idea of Tommy Bangs at the head of
an 'establishment' was irresistibly funny to all who knew him.

Things were in this flourishing condition, and Mrs Jo was
beginning to think her trials were over for that year, when a new
excitement came. Several postal cards had arrived at long intervals
from Dan, who gave them 'Care of M. Mason, etc.', as his address.
By this means he was able to gratify his longing for home news,
and to send brief messages to quiet their surprise at his delay in
settling. The last one, which came in September, was dated
'Montana', and simply said:

Here at last, trying mining again; but not going to stay long. All
sorts of luck. Cave up the farm idea. Tell plans soon. Well, busy,
and very happy. D. K.

If they had known what the heavy dash under 'happy' meant, that
postal would have been a very eloquent bit of pasteboard; for Dan
was free, and had gone straight away to the liberty he panted for.
Meeting an old friend by accident, he obliged him at a pinch by
acting as overseer for a time, finding the society even of rough
miners very sweet, and something in the muscular work
wonderfully pleasant, after being cooped up in the brush-shop so
long. He loved to take a pick and wrestle with rock and earth till
he was weary   which was very soon; for that year of captivity had
told upon his splendid physique. He longed to go home, but waited
week after week to get the prison taint off him and the haggard
look out Qf h~s face. Meanwhile he made friends of masters and
men; and as no one knew his story, he took his place again in the
world gratefully and gladly   with little pride now, and no plans but
to do some good somewhere, and efface the past.

Mrs Jo was having a grand clearing-out of her desk one October
day, while the rain poured outside, and peace reigned in her
mansion. Coming across the postals, she pondered over them, and
then put them carefully away In the drawer labelled 'Boys' Letters',
saying to herself, as she bundled eleven requests for autographs
into the waste-paper basket:

'It is quite time for another card, unless he is coming to tell his
plans. I'm really curious to know what he has been about all this
year, and how he's getting on now.'

That last wish was granted within an hour; for Ted came rushing
in, with a newspaper in one hand, a collapsed umbrella in the
other, and a face full of excitement, announcing, all in one
breathless jumble:

'Mine caved in   twenty men shut up   no way out   wives crying
water rising   Dan knew the old shaft

risked his life   got 'em out   most killed   papers full of it   I knew
he'd be a hero   hurray for old Dan!'

'What? Where? When? Who? Stop roaring, and let me read!'
commanded his mother, entirely bewildered.

Relinquishing the paper, Ted allowed her to read for herself, with
frequent interruptions from him   and Rob, who soon followed,
eager for the tale. It was nothing new; but courage and devotion
always stir generous hearts, and win admiration; so the account
was both graphic and enthusiastic; and the name of Daniel Kean,
the brave man who saved the lives of others at the risk of his own,
was on many lips that day. Very proud were the faces of these
friends as they read how their Dan was the only one who, in the
first panic of the accident, remembered the old shaft that led into
the mine   walled up, but the only hope of escape, if the men could
be got out before the rising water drowned them; how he was
lowered down alone, telling the others to keep back till he saw if it
was safe; how he heard the poor fellows picking desperately for
their lives on the other side, and by knocks and calls guided them
to the right spot; then headed the rescue party, and working like a
hero, got the men out in time. On being drawn up last of all, the
worn rope broke, and he had a terrible fall, being much hurt, but
was still alive. How the grateful women kissed his blackened face
and bloody hands, as the men bore him away in triumph, and the
owners of the mine promised a handsome reward, if he lived to
receive it!

'He must live; he shall, and come home to be nursed as soon as he
can stir, if I go and bring him myself! I always knew he'd do
something fine and brave, if he didn't get shot or hung for some
wild prank instead,' cried Mrs Jo, much excited.

'Do go, and take me with you, Mum. I ought to be the one, Dan's so
fond of me and I of him,' began Ted, feeling that this would be an
expedition after his own heart.

Before his mother could reply, Mr Laurie came in, with almost as
much noise and flurry as Teddy the second, exclaiming as he
waved the evening paper:

'Seen the news, Jo? What do you think? Shall I go off at once, and
see after that brave boy?'

'I wish you would. But the thing may not be all true

  rumour lies so. Perhaps a few hours will bring an entirely new
version of the story.'

'I've telephoned to Demi for all he can find out; and if it's true, I'll
go at once. Should like the trip. If he's able, I'll bring him home; if
not, I'll stay and see to him. He'll pull through. Dan will never die
of a fall on his head. He's got nine lives, and not lost half of them
yet.'

'If you go, uncle, mayn't I go with you? I'm just spoiling for a
journey; and it would be such larks to go out there with you, and
see the mines and Dan, and hear all about it, and help. I can nurse.
Can't I, Rob?' cried Teddy, in his most wheedlesome tones.

'Pretty well. But if mother can't spare you, I'm ready if uncle needs
anyone,' answered Rob, in his quiet way, looking much fitter for
the trip than excitable Ted.

'I can't spare either of you. My boys get into trouble, unless I keep
them close at home. I've no right to hold the others; but I won't let
you out of my sight, or something will happen. Never saw such a
year, with wrecks and weddings and floods and engagements, and
every sort of catastrophe!' exclaimed Mrs Jo.

'If you deal in girls and boys, you must expect this sort of thing,
ma'am. The worst is over, I hope, till these lads begin to go off.
Then I'll stand by you; for you'll need every kind of support and
comfort, specially if Ted bolts early,' laughed Mr Laurie, enjoying
her lamentations.

'I don't think anything can surprise me now; but I am anxious about
Dan, and feel that someone had better go to him. It's a rough place
out there, and he may need careful nursing. Poor lad, he seems to
get a good many hard knocks! But perhaps he needs them as "a
mellerin' process", as Hannah used to say.'

'We shall hear from Demi before long, and then I'll be off.' With
which cheerful promise Mr Laurie departed; and Ted, finding his
mother firm, soon followed, to coax his uncle to take him.

Further inquiry confirmed and added interest to the news. Mr
Laurie was off at once; and Ted went into town with him, still
vainly imploring to be taken to his Dan. He was absent all day; but
his mother said, calmly:

'Only a fit of the sulks because he is thwarted. He's safe with Tom
or Demi, and will come home hungry and meek at night. I know
him.'

But she soon found that she could still be surprised; for evening
brought no Ted, and no one had seen him. Mr Bhaer was just
setting off to find his lost son, when a telegram arrived, dated at
one of the way-stations on Mr Laurie's route:

Found Ted in the cars. Take him along. Write tomorrow.

T.   LAURENCE

'Ted bolted sooner than you expected, mother. Never mind   uncle
will take good care of him, and Dan be very glad to see him,' said
Rob, as Mrs Jo sat, trying to realize that her youngest was actually
on his way to the wild West.

'Disobedient boy! He shall be severely punished, if I ever get him
again. Laurie winked at this prank; I know he did. Just like him.
Won't the two rascals have a splendid time? Wish I was with them!
Don't believe that crazy boy took even a night-gown with him, or
an overcoat. Well, there will be two patients for us to nurse when
they get back, if they ever do. Those reckless express trains always
go down precipices, and burn up, or telescope. Oh! my Ted, my
precious boy, how can I let him go so far away from me?'

And mother-like, Mrs Jo forgot the threatened chastisement in
tender lamentations over the happy scapegrace, now whizzing
across the continent in high feather at the success of his first
revolt. Mr Laurie was much amused at his insisting that those
words, 'when Ted bolts', put the idea into his head; and therefore
the responsibility rested upon his shoulders. He assumed it kindly
from the moment he came upon the runaway asleep in a car, with
no visible- luggage but a bottle of wine for Dan and a
blacking-brush for himself; and as Mrs Jo suspected, the 'two
rascals' did have a splendid time. Penitent letters arrived in due
season, and the irate parents soon forgot to chide in their anxiety
about Dan, who was very ill, and did not know his friends for
several days. Then he began to mend; and everyone forgave the
bad boy when he proudly reported that the first conscious words
Dan said were: 'Hallo, Ted!' with a smile of pleasure at seeing a
familiar face bent over him.

'Glad he went, and I won't scold any more. Now, what shall we put
in the box for Dan?' And Mrs Jo worked off her impatience to get
hold of the invalid by sending comforts enough for a hospital.

Cheering accounts soon began to come, and at length Dan was
pronounced able to travel, but seemed ifi hO haste to go home,
though never tired of hearing his nurses talk of it.

'Dan is strangely altered,' wrote Laurie to Jo; 'not by this illness
alone, but by something which has evidently gone before. I don't
know what, and leave you to ask; but from his ravings when
delirious I fear he has been in some serious trouble the past year.
He seems ten years older, but improved, quieter, and so grateful to
us. It is pathetic to see the hunger in his eyes as they rest on Ted,
as if he couldn't see enough of him. He says Kansas was a failure,
but can't talk much; so I bide my time. The people here love him
very much, and he cares for that sort of thing now; used to scorn
any show of emotion, you know; now he wants everyone to think
well of him, and can't do enough to win affection and respect. I
may be all wrong. You will soon find out. Ted is in clover, and the
trip has done him a world of good. Let me take him to Europe
when we go? Apron-strings don't agree with him any better than
they did with me when I proposed to run away to Washington with
you some century ago. Aren't you sorry you didn't?'

This private letter set Mrs Jo's lively fancy in a ferment, and she
imagined every known crime, affliction, and complication which
could possibly have befallen Dan. He was too feeble to be worried
with questions now, but she promised herself most interesting
revelations when she got him safe at home; for the 'firebrand' was
her most interesting boy. She begged him to come, and spent more
time in composing a letter that should bring him, than she did over
the

a~t thrilling ~pi~o~c~i in hcr 'work~'.

No one but Dan saw the letter; but it did bring him, and one
November day Mr Laurie helped a feeble man out of a carriage at
the door of Plumfield, and Mother Bhaer received the wanderer
like a recovered son; while Ted, in a disreputable-looking hat and
an astonishing pair of boots, performed a sort of war-dance round
the interesting group.

'Right upstairs and rest; I'm nurse now, and this ghost must eat
before he talks to anyone,' commanded Mrs Jo, trying not to show
how shocked she was at this shorn and shaven, gaunt and pallid
shadow of the stalwart man she parted with.

He was quite content to obey, and lay on the long lounge in the
room prepared for him, looking about as tranquilly as a sick child
restored to its own nursery and mother's arms, while his new nurse
fed and refreshed him, bravely controlling the questions that
burned upon her tongue. Being weak and weary, he soon fell
asleep; and then she stole away to enjoy the society of the 'rascals',
whom she scolded and petted, pumped and praised, to her heart's
content.

'Jo, I think Dan has committed some crime and suffered for it,' said
Mr Laurie, when Ted had departed to show his boots and tell
glowing tales of the dangers and delights of the miners' life to his
mates. 'Some terrible experience has come to the lad, and broken
his spirit. He was quite out of his head when we arrived, and I took
the watching, so I heard more of those sad wanderings than anyone
else. He talked of the "warden", some trail, a dead man, and Blair
and Mason, and would keep offering me his hand, asking me if I
would take it and forgive him. Once, when he was very wild, I held
his arms, and he quieted in a moment, imploring me not to "put the
handcuffs on". I declare, it was quite awful sometimes to hear him
in the night talk of old Plum and you, and beg to be let out and go
home to die.'

'He isn't going to die, but live to repent of anything he may have
done; so don't harrow me up with these dark hints, Teddy. I don't
care if he's broken the Ten Commandments, I'll stand by him, and
so will you, and we'll set him on his feet and make a good man of
him yet. I know he's not spoilt, by the look in his poor face. Don't
say a word to anyone, and I'll have the truth before long,' answered
Mrs Jo, still loyal to her bad boy, though much afflicted by what
she had heard.

For some days Dan rested, and saw few people; their good care,
cheerful surroundings, and the comfort of being at home began to
tell, and he seemed more like himself, though still very silent as to
his late experiences, pleading the doctor's orders not to talk much.
Everyone wanted to see him; but he shrank from any but old
friends, and 'wouldn't lionize worth a cent', Ted said, much
disappointed that he could not show off his brave Dan.

'Wasn't a man there who wouldn't have done the same, so why
make a row over me?' asked the hero, feeling more ashamed than
proud of the broken arm, which looked so interesting in a sling.

'But isn't it pleasant to think that you saved twenty lives, Dan, and
gave husbands, sons, and fathers back to the women who loved
them?' asked Mrs Jo one evening as they were alone together after
several callers had been sent away.

'Pleasant! it's all that kept me alive, I do believe; yes, I'd rather
have done it than be made president or any other big bug in the
world. No one knows what a comfort it is to think I've saved
twenty men to more than pay for  , There Dan stopped short,
having evidently spoken out of some strong emotion to which his
hearer had no key.'

'I thought you'd feel so. It is a splendid thing to save life at the risk
of one's own, as you did, and nearly lose it,' began Mrs Jo, wishing
he had gone on with that impulsive speech which was so like his
old

manner.   -

'"He that loseth his life shall gain it",' muttered Dan, staring at the
cheerful fire which lighted the room, and shone on his thin face
with a ruddy glow.

Mrs Jo was so startled at hearing such words from his lips that she
exclaimed joyfully:

'Then you did read the little book I gave you, and kept your
promise?'

'I read it a good deal after a while. I don't know much yet, but I'm
ready to learn; and that's something.'

'It's everything. Oh, my dear, tell me about it! I know something
lies heavy on your heart; let me help you bear it, and so make the
burden lighter.'

'I know it would; I want to tell; but some things even you couldn't
forgive; and if you let go of me, I'm afraid I can't keep afloat.'

'Mothers can forgive anything! Tell me all, and be sure that I will
never let you go, though the whole world should turn from you.'
Mrs Jo took one of the big wasted hands in both of hers and held it
fast, waiting silently till that sustaining touch warmed poor Dan's
heart, and gave him courage to speak. Sitting in his old attitude,
with his head in his hands, he slowly told it all, never once looking
up till the last words left his lips.

'Now you know; can you forgive a murderer, and keep a jail-bird in
your house?'

Her only answer was to put her arms about him, and lay the shorn
head on her breast, with eyes so full of tears they could but dimly
see the hope and fear that made his own so tragical.

That was better than any words; and poor Dan clung to her in
speechless gratitude, feeling the blessedness of mother love   that
divine gift which comforts, purifies, and strengthens all who seek
it. Two or three great, bitter drops were hidden in the little woollen
shawl where Dan's cheek rested, and no one ever knew how soft
and comfortable it felt to him after the hard pillows he had known
so long. Suffering of both mind and body had broken will and
pride, and the lifted burden brought such a sense of relief that he
paused a moment to enjoy it in dumb delight.

'My poor boy, how you have suffered all this year, when we
thought you free as air! Why didn't you tell us, Dan, and let us help
you? Did you doubt your friends?' asked Mrs Jo, forgetting all
other emotions in sympathy, as she lifted up the hidden face, and
looked reproachfully into the great hollow eyes that met her own
frankly now.

'I was ashamed. I tried to bear it alone rather than shock and
disappoint you, as I know I have, though you try not to show it.
Don't mind; I must get used to it'; and Dan's eyes dropped again as
if they could not bear to see the trouble and dismay his confession
painted on his best friend's face.

'I am shocked and disappointed by the sin, but I am also very glad
and proud and grateful that my sinner has repented, atoned, and is
ready to profit by the bitter lesson. No one but Fritz and Laurie
need ever know the truth; we owe it to them, and they will feel as I
do,' answered Mrs Jo, wisely thinking that entire frankness would
be a better tonic than too much sympathy.

'No, they won't; men never forgive like women. But it's right.
Please tell 'em for me, and get it over. Mr Laurence knows it, I
guess. I blabbed when my wits were gone; but he was very kind all
the same. I can bear their knowing; but oh, not Ted and the girls!'
Dan clutched her arm with such an imploring face that she
hastened to assure him no one should know except the two old
friends, and he calmed down as if ashamed of his sudden panic.

'It wasn't murder, mind you, it was in self-defence; he drew first,
and I had to hit him. Didn't mean to kill him; but it doesn't worry
me as much as it ought, I'm afraid. I've more than paid for it, and
such a rascal is better out of the world than in it, showing boys the
way to hell. Yes, I know you think that's awful in me; but I can't
help ~t. I hate a scamp as I do a skulking coyote, and always want
to get a shot at 'em. Perhaps it would have been better if he had
killed me; my life

is spoilt.'

All the old prison gloom seemed to settle like a black cloud on
Dan's face as he spoke, and Mrs Jo was frightened at the glimpse it
gave her of the fire through which he had passed to come out alive,
but scarred for life. Hoping to turn his mind to happier things, she
said cheerfully:

'No, it isn't; you have learned to value it more and use it better for
this trial. It is not a lost year, but one that may prove the most
helpful of any you ever know. Try to think so, and begin again; we
will help, and have all the more confidence in you for this failure.
We all do the same and struggle on.'

'I never can be what I was. I feel about sixty, and don't care for
anything now I've got here. Let me stay till I'm on my legs, then I'll
clear out and never trouble you any more,' said Dan despondently.

'You are weak and low in your mind; that will pass, and by and by
you will go to your missionary work among the Indians with all the
old energy and the new patience, self-control, and knowledge you
have gained. Tell me more about that good chaplain and Mary
Mason and the lady whose chance word helped you so much. I
want to know all about the trials of my poor boy.'

Won by her tender interest, Dan brightened up and talked on till he
had poured out all the story of that bitter year, and felt better for
the load he lifted off.

If he had known how it weighed upon his hearer's heart, he would
have held his peace; but she hid her sorrow till she had sent him to
bed, comforted and calm; then she cried her heart out, to the great
dismay of Fritz and Laurie, till they heard the tale and could mourn
with her; after which they all cheered up and took counsel together
how best to help this worst of all the 'catastrophes' the year had
brought them.

Chapter 21 ASLAUGA'S KNIGHT

It was curious to see the change which came over Dan after that
talk. A weight seemed off his mind; and though the old impetuous
spirit flashed out at times, he seemed intent on trying to show his
gratitude and love and honour to these true friends by a new
humility and confidence very sweet to them, very helpful to him.
After hearing the story from Mrs Jo, the Professor and Mr Laurie
made no allusion to it beyond the hearty hand-grasp, the look of
compassion, the brief word of good cheer in which men convey
sympathy, and a redoubled kindness which left no doubt of pardon.
Mr Laurie began at once to interest influential persons in Dan's
mission, and set in motion the machinery which needs so much
oiling before anything can be done where Government is
concerned. Mr Bhaer, with the skill of a true teacher, gave Dan's
hungry mind something to do, and helped him understand himself
by carrying on the good chaplain's task so paternally that the poor
fellow often said he felt as if he had found a father. The boys took
him to drive, and amused him with their pranks and plans; while
the women, old and young, nursed and petted him till he felt like a
sultan with a crowd of devoted slaves, obedient to his lightest
wish. A very little of this was enough for Dan, who had a
masculine horror of 'molly-coddling', and so brief an acquaintance
with illness that he rebelled against the doctor's orders to keep
quiet; and it took all Mrs Jo's authority and the girls' ingenuity to
keep him from leaving his sofa long before strained back and
wounded head were well. Daisy cooked for him; Nan attended to
his medicines; Josie read aloud to while away the long hours of
inaction that hung so heavily on his hands; while Bess brought all
her pictures and casts to amuse him, and, at his special desire, set
up a modelling-stand in his parlour and began to mould the buffalo
head he gave her. Those afternoons seemed the pleasantest part of
his day; and Mrs Jo, busy in her study close by, could see the
friendly trio and enjoy the pretty pictures they made. The girls
were much flattered by the success of their efforts, and exerted
themselves to be very entertaining, consulting Dan's moods with
the feminine tact most women creatures learn before they are out
of pinafores. When he was gay, the room rang with laughter; when
gloomy, they read or worked in respectful silence till their sweet
patience cheered him up again; and when in pain they hovered
over him like 'a couple of angels', as he said. He often called Josie
'little mother', but Bess was always 'Princess'; and his manner to
the two cousins was quite different. Josie sometimes fretted him
with her fussy ways, the long plays she liked to read, and the
maternal scoldings she administered when he broke the rules; for
having a lord of creation in her power was so delightful to her that
she would have ruled him with a rod of iron if he had submitted.
To Bess, in her gentler ministrations, he never showed either
impatience or weariness, but obeyed her least word, exerted
himself to seem well in her presence, and took such interest in her
work that he lay looking at her with unwearied eyes; while Josie
read to him in her best style unheeded.

Mrs Jo observed this, and called them 'Una and the Lion', which
suited them very well, though the lion's mane was shorn, and Una
never tried to bridle him. The elder ladies did their part in
providing delicacies and supplying all his wants; but Mrs Meg was
busy at home, Mrs Amy preparing for the trip to Europe in the
spring, and Mrs Jo hovering on the brink of a 'vortex'   for the
forthcoming book had been sadly delayed by the late domestic
events. As she sat at her desk, settling papers or meditatively
nibbling her pen while waiting for the divine afflants to descend
upon her, she often forgot her fictitious heroes and heroines in
studying the live models before her, and thus by chance looks,
words, and gestures discovered a little romance unsuspected by
anyone else.

The portire between the rooms was usually drawn aside, giving a
view of the group in the large bay-window   Bess at one side, in
her grey blouse, busy with her tools; Josie at the other side with
her book; and between, on the long couch, propped with many
cushions, lay Dan in a many-hued eastern dressing-gown presented
by Mr Laurie and worn to please the girls, though the invalid much
preferred an old jacket 'with no confounded tail to bother over'. He
faced Mrs Jo's room, but never seemed to see her, for his eyes
were on the slender figure before him, with the pale winter
sunshine touching her golden head, and the delicate hands that
shaped the clay so deftly. Josie was just visible, rocking violently
in a little chair at the head of the couch, and the steady murmur of
her girlish voice was usually the only sound that broke the quiet of
the room, unless a sudden discussion arose about the book or the
buffalo.

Something in the big eyes, bigger and blacker than ever in the thin
white face, fixed, so steadily on one object, had a sort of
fascination for Mrs Jo after a time, and she watched the changes in
them curiously; for Dan's mind was evidently not on the story, and
he often forgot to laugh or exclaim at the comic or exciting crises.
Sometimes they were soft and wistful, and the watcher was very
glad that neither damsel caught that dangerous look for when they
spoke it vanished; sometimes it was full of eager fire, and the
colour came and went rebelliously, in spite of his attempt to hide it
with an impatient gesture of hand or head; but oftenest it was dark,
and sad, and stern, as if those gloomy eyes looked out of captivity
at some forbidden light or joy. This expression came so often that
it worried Mrs Jo, and she longed to go and ask him what bitter
memory overshadowed those quiet hours. She knew that his crime
and its punishment must lie heavy on his mind; but youth, and
time, and new hopes would bring comfort, and help to wear away
the first sharpness of the prison brand. It lifted at other times, and
seemed almost forgotten when he joked with the boys, talked with
old friends, or enjoyed the first snows as he drove out every fair
day. Why should the shadow always fall so darkly on him in the
society of these innocent and friendly girls? They never seemed to
see it, and if either looked or spoke, a quick smile came like a
sunburst through the clouds to answer them. So Mrs Jo went on
watching, wondering, and discovering, till accident confirmed her
fears.

Josie was called away one day, and Bess, tired of working, offered
to take her place if he cared for more reading.

'I do; your reading suits me better than Jo's. She goes so fast my
stupid head gets in a muddle and soon begins to ache. Don't tell
her; she's a dear little soul, and so good to sit here with a bear like
me.'

The smile was ready as Bess went to the table for a new book, the
last story being finished.

'You are not a bear, but very good and patient, we think. It is
always hard for a man to be shut up, mamma says, and must be
terrible for you, who have always been so free.'

If Bess had not been reading titles she would have seen Dan shrink
as if her last words hurt him. He made no answer; but other eyes
saw and understood why he looked as if he would have liked to
spring up and rush away for one of his long races up the hill, as he
used to do when the longing for liberty grew uncontrollable.
Moved by a sudden impulse, Mrs Jo caught

up h~r wor1c-~a~1cct ~ wcn~ w j~~ hcr neighbours, feeling that
a non-conductor might be needed; for Dan looked like a
thundercloud full of electricity.

'What shall we read, Aunty? Dan doesn't seem to care. You know
his taste; tell me something quiet and pleasant and short. Josie will
be back soon,' said Bess, still turning over the books piled on the
centre-table.

Before Mrs Jo could answer, Dan pulled a shabby little volume
from under his pillow, and handing it to her said: 'Please read the
third one; it's short and pretty  I'm fond of it.' The book opened at
the right place, as if the third story had been often read, and Bess
smiled as she saw the name.

'Why, Dan, I shouldn't think you'd care for this romantic German
tale. There is fighting in it; but it is very sentimental, if I remember
rightly.'

'I know it; but I've read so few stories, I like the simple ones best.
Had nothing else to read sometimes; I guess I know it all by heart,
and never seem to be tired of those fighting fellows, and the fiends
and angels and lovely ladies. You read "Aslauga's Knight", and see
if you don't like it. Edwald was rather too soft for my fancy; but
Froda was first-rate and the spirit with the golden hair always
reminded me of you.'

As Dan spoke Mrs Jo settled herself where she could watch him in
the glass, and Bess took a large chair facing him, saying, as she put
up her hands to retie the ribbon that held the cluster of thick, soft
curls at the back of her head:

'I hope Aslauga's hair wasn't as troublesome as mine, for it's always
tumbling down. I'll be ready in a minute.'

'Don't tie it up; please let it hang. I love to see it shine that way. It
will rest your head, and be just right for the story, Goldilocks,'
pleaded Dan, using the childish name and looking more like his
boyish self than he had done for many a day.

Bess -laughed, shook down her pretty hair, and began to read, glad
to hide her face a little; for compliments made her shy, no matter
who paid them. Dan listened intently on; and Mrs Jo, with eyes
that went often from her needle to the glass, could see, without
turning, how he enjoyed every word as if it had more meaning for
him than for the other listeners. His face brightened wonderfully,
and soon wore the look that came when anything brave or
beautiful inspired and touched his better self. It was Fouqu's
charming story of the knight Froda, and the fair daughter of
Sigurd, who was a sort of spirit, appearing to her lover in hours of
danger and trial, as well as triumph and joy, till she became his
guide and guard, inspiring him with courage, nobleness, and truth,
leading him to great deeds in the field, sacrifices for those he
loved, and victories over himself by the gleaming of her golden
hair, which shone on him in battle, dreams, and perils by day and
night, till after death he finds the lovely spirit waiting to receive
and to reward him.

Of all the stories in the book this was the last one would have
supposed Dan would like best, and even Mrs Jo was surprised at
his perceiving the moral of the tale through the delicate imagery
and romantic language by which it was illustrated. But as she
looked and listened she remembered the streak of sentiment and
refinement which lay concealed in Dan like the gold vein in a
rock, making him quick to feel and to enjoy fine colour in a
flower, grace in an animal, sweetness in women, heroism in men,
and all the tender ties that bind heart to heart; though he was slow
to show it, having no words to express the tastes and instincts
which he inherited from his mother. Suffering of soul and body
had tamed his stronger passions, and the atmosphere of love and
pity now surrounding him purified and warmed his heart till it
began to hunger for the food neglected or denied so long. This was
plainly written in his too expressive face, as, fancying it unseen, he
let it tell the longing after beauty, peace, and happiness embodied
for him in the innocent fair girl before him.

The conviction of this sad yet natural fact came to Mrs Jo with a
pang, for she felt how utterly hopeless such a longing was; since
light and darkness were not farther apart than snow-white Bess and
sin-stained Dan. No dream of such a thing disturbed the young girl,
as her entire unconsciousness plainly showed. But how long would
it be before the eloquent eyes betrayed the truth? And then what
disappointment for Dan, what dismay for Bess, who was as cool
and high and pure as her own marbles, and shunned all thought of
love with maidenly reserve.

'How hard everything is made for my poor boy! How can I spoil his
little dream, and take away the spirit of good he is beginning to
love and long for? When my own dear lads are safely settled I'll
never try another, for these things are heart-breaking, and I can't
manage any more,' thought Mrs Jo, as she put the lining into
Teddy's coat-sleeve upside down, so perplexed and grieved was
she at this new catastrophe.

The story was soon done, and as Bess shook back her hair, Dan
asked as eagerly as a boy:

'Don't you like it?'

'Yes, it's very pretty, and I see the meaning of it; but Undine was
always my favourite.'

'Of course, that's like you   lilies and pearls and souls and pure
water. Sintram used to be mine; but I took a fancy to this when I
was   ahem   rather down on my luck one time, and it did me good,
it was so cheerful and sort of spiritual in its meaning, you know.'
Dan's for anything 'spiritual'; but she only nodded, saying: 'Some of
the little songs are sweet and might be set to music.'

Dan laughed; 'I used to sing the last one to a tune of my own
sometimes at sunset:

Listening to celestial lays,

Bending thy unclouded gaze

(in the pure and h'vi'ng light,

Thou art