n's, was never putten to the
temptation o' occkypeein' sic a perilous position. I doobt gien
auld John had been merried upo' me, I micht hae putten on the wrang
claes some mornin' mysel', an' may be had ill gettin' o' them aff
again."

The old man was silent, and Miss Horn resumed the main subject of
their conversation.

"But though he michtna objec' till a father 'at he wasna jist Hector
or Golia' o' Gath," she said, "ye canna wonner 'at the yoong laad
no carin' to hae sic a mither."

"And what would pe ta harm with ta mother? Will she not pe a coot
woman, and a coot letty more to ta bargain?"

"Ye ken what fowk says till her guideship o' her son?"

"Yes; put tat will pe ta lies of ta peoples. Ta peoples wass always
telling lies."

"Weel, allooin', it 's a peety ye sudna ken, supposin' him to be
hers, hoo sma' fowk hauds the chance o' his bein' a Stewart, for
a' that!"

"She 'll not pe comprestanding you," said Duncan, bewildered.

"He's a wise son 'at kens his ain faither!" remarked Miss Horn,
with more point than originality. "The leddy never bore the best
o' characters, as far 's my memory taks me,--an' that 's back
afore John an' her was merried ony gait. Na, na; John Stewart never
took a dwaum 'cause Ma'colm MacPhail was upo' the ro'd."

Miss Horn was sufficiently enigmatical; but her meaning had at
length, more through his own reflection than her exposition, dawned
upon Duncan. He leaped up with a Gaelic explosion of concentrated
force, and cried,

"Ta woman is not pe no mothers to Tuncan's poy!"

"Huly, huly, Mr MacPhail!" interposed Miss Horn, with good natured
revenge; "it may be naething but fowk's lees, ye ken."

"Ta woman tat ta peoples will pe telling lies of her, wass not pe
ta mother of her poy Malcolm. Why tidn't ta poy tell her ta why
tat he wouldn't pe hafing her?"

"Ye wadna hae him spread an ill report o' his ain mither?"

"Put she 'll not pe his mother, and you 'll not pelieve it, mem."

"Ye canna priv that--you nor him aither."

"It will pe more as would kill her poy to haf a woman like tat to
ta mother of him."

"It wad be near ban' as ill is haein' her for a wife," assented
Miss Horn; "but no freely (quite)," she added.

The old man sought the door, as if for a breath of air; but as he
went, he blundered, and felt about as if he had just been struck
blind; ordinarily he walked in his own house at least, as if he saw
every inch of the way. Presently he returned and resumed his seat.

"Was the bairn laid mither nakit intill yer han's, Maister MacPhail?"
asked Miss Horn, who had been meditating.

"Och! no; he wass his clo'es on," answered Duncan.

"Hae ye ony o' them left?" she asked again.

"Inteet not," answered Duncan. "Yes, inteet not."

"Ye lay at the Salmon, didna ye?"

"Yes, mem, and they wass coot to her."

"Wha drest the bairn till ye?"

"Och! she 'll trest him herself." said Duncan, still jealous of
the women who had nursed the child.

"But no aye?" suggested Miss Horn.

"Mistress Partan will pe toing a coot teal of tressing him, sometimes.
Mistress Partan is a coot 'oman when she 'll pe coot--fery coot
when she 'll be coot."

Here Malcolm entered, and Miss Horn told him what she had seen of
the laird, and gathered concerning him.

"That luiks ill for Phemy," remarked Malcolm, when she had described
his forlorn condition. "She canna be wi' 'im, or he wadna be like
that. Hae ye onything by w'y o' coonsel, mem?"

"I wad coonsel a word wi' the laird himsel'--gien 't be to be
gotten. He mayna ken what 's happent her, but he may tell ye the
last he saw o' her, an' that maun be mair nor ye ken."

"He 's taen sic a doobt o' me 'at I 'm feart it 'll be hard to come
at him, an' still harder to come at speech o' 'im, for whan he 's
frichtit he can hardly muv is jawbane--no to say speyk. I maun
try though and du my best. Ye think he's lurkin' aboot Fife Hoose,
div ye, mem?"

"He's been seen there awa' this while--aff an' on."

"Weel, I s' jist gang an' put on my fisher claes, an set oot
at ance. I maun haud ower to Scaurnose first, though, to lat them
ken 'at he 's been gotten sicht o'. It 'll be but sma' comfort, I
doobt."

"Malcolm, my son," interjected Duncan, who had been watching for
the conversation to afford him an opening, "if you'll pe meeting
any one will caal you ta son of tat woman, gif him a coot plow in
ta face, for you 'll pe no son of hers, efen if she'll proof it--
no more as hersel. If you 'll pe her son, old Tuncan will pe tisown
you for efer, and efermore, amen."

"What's broucht you to this, daddie?" asked Malcolm, who, ill as
he liked the least allusion to the matter, could not help feeling
curious, and indeed almost amused.

"Nefer you mind. Miss Horn will pe hafing coot reasons tat Mistress
Stewart 'll not can pe your mother."

Malcolm turned to Miss Horn.

"I 've said naething to Maister MacPhail but what I 've said mair
nor ance to yersel', laddie," she replied to the eager questioning
of his eyes. "Gang yer wa's. The trowth maun cow the lee i' the
lang rin. Aff wi' ye to Blue Peter!"

When Malcolm reached Scaurnose he found Phemy's parents in a sad
state. Joseph had returned that morning from a fruitless search in
a fresh direction, and reiterated disappointment seemed to have at
length overcome Annie's endurance, for she had taken to her bed.
Joseph was sitting before the fire on a three legged stool rocking
himself to and fro in a dull agony. When he heard Malcolm's voice,
he jumped to his feet, and a flash of hope shot from his eyes: but
when he had heard all, he sat down again without a word, and began
rocking himself as before. Mrs Mair was lying in the darkened
closet, where, the door being partly open, she had been listening
with all her might, and was now weeping afresh. Joseph was the
first to speak: still rocking himself with hopeless oscillation, he
said, in a strange muffled tone which seemed to come from somewhere
else--"Gien I kent she was weel deid I wadna care. It 's no like
a father to be sittin' here, but whaur 'll I gang neist? The wife
thinks I micht be duin' something: I kenna what to du. This last
news is waur nor mane. I hae maist nae faith left. Ma'colm, man!"
and with a bitter cry he started to his feet--"I maist dinna
believe there's a God ava'. It disna luik like it--dis 't noo?"

There came an answering cry from the closet; Annie rushed out, half
undressed, and threw her arms about her husband.

"Joseph! Joseph!" she said, in a voice hard with agony--almost
more dreadful than a scream--"gien ye speyk like that, ye 'll
drive me mad. Lat the lassie gang, but lea' me my God!" Joseph
pushed her gently away; turned from her, fell on his knees, and
moaned out--"O God, gien thoo has her, we s' neither greit nor
grum'le: but dinna tak the faith frae 's."

He remained on his knees silent, with his head against the chimney
jamb. His wife crept away to her closet.

"Peter," said Malcolm, "I'm gaein' aff the nicht to luik for the
laird, and see gien he can tell 's onything aboot her: wadna ye
better come wi' me?"

To the heart of the father it was as the hope of the resurrection
of the world. The same moment he was on his feet and taking down
his bonnet; the next he disappeared in the closet, and Malcolm heard
the tinkling of the money in the lidless teapot; then out he came
with a tear on his face and a glimmer in his eyes.

The sun was down, and a bone piercing chill, incarnate in the
vague mist that haunted the ground, assailed them as they left the
cottage. The sea moaned drearily. A smoke seemed to ascend from
the horizon halfway to the zenith, something too thin for cloud,
too black for vapour; above that the stars were beginning to shine.
Joseph shivered and struck his hands against his shoulders.

"Care 's cauldrife," he said, and strode on.

Almost in silence they walked together to the county town, put up
at a little inn near the river, and at once began to make inquiries.
Not a few persons had seen the laird at different times, but none
knew where he slept or chiefly haunted. There was nothing for it
but to set out in the morning, and stray hither and thither, on
the chance of somewhere finding him.



CHAPTER LXII: THE CUTTLE FISH AND THE CRAB


Although the better portion of the original assembly had forsaken
the Baillies' Barn, there was still a regular gathering in it as
before, and if possible even a greater manifestation of zeal for the
conversion of sinners. True, it might not be clear to an outsider
that they always made a difference between being converted and
joining their company, so ready were they to mix up the two in their
utterances; and the result's of what they counted conversion were
sometimes such as the opponents of their proceedings would have had
them: the arrogant became yet more arrogant, and the greedy more
greedy; the tongues of the talkative went yet faster, and the gad
abouts were yet seldomer at home, while there was such a superabundance
of private judgment that it overflowed the cisterns of their own
concerns, and invaded the walled gardens of other people's motives:
yet, notwithstanding, the good people got good, if the other sort
got evil; for the meek shall inherit the earth, even when the
priest ascends the throne of Augustus. No worst thing ever done in
the name of Christianity, no vilest corruption of the Church, can
destroy the eternal fact that the core of it is in the heart of
Jesus. Branches innumerable may have to be lopped off and cast into
the fire, yet the word I am the vine remaineth.

The demagogues had gloried in the expulsion of such men as Jeames
Gentle and Blue Peter, and were soon rejoiced by the return of Bow
o' meal--after a season of backsliding to the fleshpots of Egypt,
as they called the services of the parish church--to the bosom of
the Barn, where he soon was again one of the chief amongst them.
Meantime the circles of their emanating influence continued to
spread, until at length they reached the lower classes of the upper
town, of whom a few began to go to Barn. Amongst them, for reasons
best known to herself, though they might be surmised by such
as really knew her, was Mrs Catanach. I do not know that she ever
professed repentance and conversion, but for a while she attended
pretty often. Possibly business considerations had something to do
with it. Assuredly the young preacher, though he still continued
to exhort, did so with failing strength, and it was plain to see
that he was going rapidly: the exercise of the second of her twin
callings might be required. She could not, however, have been drawn
by any large expectations as to the honorarium. Still, she would
gain what she prized even more--a position for the moment at the
heart of affairs, with its excelling chances of hearing and overhearing.
Never had lover of old books half the delight in fitting together
a rare volume from scattered portions picked up in his travels,
than Mrs Catanach found in vitalizing stray remarks, arranging odds
and ends of news, and cementing the many fragments, with the help
of the babblings of gossip, into a plausible whole; intellectually
considered, her special pursuit was inasmuch the nobler as the
faculties it brought into exercise were more delicate and various;
and if her devotion to the minutia of biography had no high end
in view, it never caused her to lose sight of what ends she had,
by involving her in opinions, prejudices, or disputes: however she
might break out at times, her general policy was to avoid quarrelling.
There was a strong natural antagonism between her and the Partaness,
but she had never shown the least dislike to her, and that although
Mrs Findlay had never lost an opportunity of manifesting hers to
the midwife. Indeed, having gained a pretext by her ministrations
to Lizzy when overcome by the suggestions of the dog sermon, Mrs
Catanach had assayed an approach to her mother, and not without
success. After the discovery of the physical cause of Lizzy's
ailment, however, Mrs Findlay had sought, by might of rude resolve, to
break loose from the encroaching acquaintanceship, but had found,
as yet, that the hard shelled crab was not a match for the glutinous
cuttlefish.

On the evening of the Sunday following the events related in the
last chapter, Mrs Catanach had, not without difficulty, persuaded
Mrs Findlay to accompany her to the Baillies' Barn, with the
promise of a wonderful sermon from a new preacher--a ploughman
on an inland farm. That she had an object in desiring her company
that night, may seem probable from the conversation which arose as
they plodded their way thither along the sands.

"I h'ard a queer tale aboot Meg Horn at Duff Harbour the ither
day," said the midwife, speaking thus disrespectfully both to ease
her own heart and to call forth the feelings of her companion, who
also, she knew, disliked Miss Horn.

"Ay! an' what micht that be?"

"But she's maybe a freen' o' yours, Mrs Findlay? Some fowk likes
her, though I canna say I'm ane o' them."

"Freen' o' mine!" exclaimed the Partaness. "We gree like twa bills
(bulls) i' the same park!"

"I wadna wonner!--for they tellt me 'at saw her fechtin' i' the
High Street wi' a muckle loon, near han' as big 's hersel'! an'
haith, but Meg had the best o' 't, an' flang him intil the gutter,
an' maist fellt him! An' that's Meg Horn!"

"She had been at the drink! But I never h'ard it laid till her
afore."

"Didna ye than? Weel, I'm no sayin' onything--that's what I
h'ard."

"Ow, it's like eneuch! She was bulliraggin' at me nae langer ago
nor thestreen; but I doobt I sent her awa' wi' a flech (flea) in
her lug!"

"Whaten a craw had she to pluck wi' you, no?"

"Ow fegs! ye wad hae ta'en her for a thief catcher, and me for the
thief! She wad threpe (insist) 'at I bude to hae keepit some o'
the duds 'at happit Ma'colm MacPhail the reprobat, whan first he
cam to the Seaton--a puir scraichin' brat, as reid 's a bilet
lobster. Wae 's me 'at ever he was creatit! It jist drives me horn
daft to think 'at ever he got the breast o' me. 'At he sud sair
(serve) me sae! But I s' hae a grip o' 'im yet, or my name 's no
--what they ca' me."

"It 's the w'y o' the warl', Mistress Findlay. What cud ye expec'
o' ane born in sin an' broucht furth in ineequity?"--a stock
phrase of Mrs Catanach's, glancing at her profession, and embracing
nearly the whole of her belief.

"It 's a true word. The mair 's the peety he sud hae hed the milk
o' an honest wuman upo' the tap o' that!"

"But what cud the auld runt be efter? What was her business wi'
't? She never did onything for the bairn."

"Na, no she! She never had the chance, guid or ill--Ow! doobtless
it wad be anent what they ca' the eedentryfeein' o' im to the
leddy o' Gersefell. She had sent her. She micht hae waled (chosen)
a mair welcome messenger, an' sent her a better eeran! But she made
little o' me."

"Ye had naething o' the kin', I s' wad."

"Never a threid. There was a twal hunner shift upo' the bairn,
rowt roon 'im like deid claes:--gien 't had been but the Lord's
wull! It gart me wonner at the time, for that wasna hoo a bairn
'at had been caret for sud be cled."

"Was there name or mark upo' 't?" asked cuttlefish.

"Nane; there was but the place whaur the reid ingrain had been
pykit oot," answered crab.

"An what cam o' the shift?"

"Ow, I jist made it doon for a bit sark to the bairn whan he grew
to be rinnin' aboot. 'At ever I sud hae ta'en steik in claith for
sic a deil's buckie! To ane 'at was a mither till 'im! The Lord
haud me ohn gane mad whan I think o' 't!"

"An' syne for Lizzy!--" began Mrs Catanach, prefacing fresh remark.

But at her name the mother flew into such a rage that, fearful of
scandal, seeing it was the Sabbath and they were on their way to
public worship, her companion would have exerted all her powers of
oiliest persuasion to appease her. But if there was one thing Mrs
Catanach did not understand it was the heart of a mother.

"Hoots, Mistress Findlay! Fowk 'll hear ye. Haud yer tongue, I beg.
She may dee i' the strae for me. I s' never put han' to the savin'
o' her, or her bairn aither," said the midwife, thinking thus to
pacify her.

Then, like the eruption following mere volcanic unrest, out brake
the sore hearted woman's wrath. And now at length the crustacean
was too much for the mollusk. She raved and scolded and abused Mrs
Catanach, till at last she was driven to that final resource--the
airs of an injured woman. She turned and walked back to the upper
town, while Mrs Findlay went on to take what share she might in
the worship of the congregation.

Mrs Mair had that evening gone once more to the Baillies' Barn in
her husband's absence; for the words of unbelief he had uttered
in the Job-like agony of his soul, had haunted the heart of his
spouse, until she too felt as if she could hardly believe in a God.
Few know what a poor thing their faith is till the trial comes.
And in the weakness consequent on protracted suffering, she had
begun to fancy that the loss of Phemy was a punishment upon them
for deserting the conventicle. Also the schoolmaster was under an
interdict, and that looked like a judgment too! She must find some
prop for the faith that was now shaking like a reed in the wind.
So to the Baillies' Barn she had gone.

The tempest which had convulsed Mrs Findlay's atmosphere, had
swept its vapours with it as it passed away; and when she entered
the cavern, it was with an unwonted inclination to be friendly all
round. As fate would have it, she unwittingly took her place by
Mrs Mair, whom she had not seen since she gave Lizzy shelter. When
she discovered who her neighbour was, she started away, and stared;
but she had had enough of quarrelling for the evening, and besides
had not had time to bar her door against the angel Pity, who suddenly
stepped across the threshhold of her heart with the sight of Mrs
Mair's pale thin cheeks and tear reddened eyes. As suddenly, however,
an indwelling demon of her own house, whose name was Envy, arose
from the ashes of her hearth to meet the white robed visitant:
Phemy, poor little harmless thing, was safe enough! who would harm
a hair of her? but Lizzy! And this woman had taken in the fugitive
from honest chastisement! She would yet have sought another seat
but the congregation rose to sing; and her neighbour's offer of
the use in common of her psalm book, was enough to quiet for the
moment the gaseous brain of the turbulent woman. She accepted the
kindness, and, the singing over, did not refuse to look on the same
holy page with her daughter's friend, while the ploughman read,
with fitting simplicity, the parable of the Prodigal Son. It touched
something in both, but a different something in each. Strange to
say, neither applied it to her own case, but each to her neighbour's.
As the reader uttered the words "was lost and is found" and ceased,
each turned to the other with a whisper. Mrs Mair persisted in
hers; and the other, which was odd enough, yielded and listened.

"Wad the tale haud wi' lassies as weel 's laddies, Mistress Findlay,
div ye think?" said Mrs Mair.

"Ow, surely!" was the response; "it maun du that. There no respec'
o' persons wi' him. There 's no a doobt but yer Phemy 'ill come
hame to ye safe an' soon'."

"I was thinkin' aboot Lizzy," said the other, a little astonished;
and then the prayer began, and they had to be silent.

The sermon of the ploughman was both dull and sensible,--an
excellent variety where few of the sermons were either; but it made
little impression on Mrs Findlay or Mrs Mair.

As they left the cave together in the crowd of issuing worshippers,
Mrs Mair whispered again:

"I wad invete ye ower, but ye wad be wantin' Lizzy hame, an' I can
ill spare the comfort o' her the noo," she said, with the cunning
of a dove.

"An' what comes o' me?" rejoined Mrs Findlay, her claws out in a
moment where her personal consequence was touched. "Ye wadna surely
tak her frae me a' at ance!" pleaded Mrs Mair. "Ye micht lat her
bide--jist till Phemy comes hame; an' syne--" But there she
broke down; and the tempest of sobs that followed quite overcame
the heart of Mrs Findlay. She was, in truth, a woman like another;
only being of the crustacean order, she had not yet swallowed her
skeleton, as all of us have to do more or less, sooner or later,
the idea of that scaffolding being that it should be out of sight.
With the best commonplaces at her command she sought to comfort
her companion; walked with her to the foot of the red path; found
her much more to her mind than Mrs Catanach: seemed inclined to
go with her all the way, but suddenly stopped, bade her goodnight,
and left her.



CHAPTER LXIII: MISS HORN AND LORD LOSSIE


Notwithstanding the quarrel, Mrs Catanach did not return without
having gained something; she had learned that Miss Horn had been
foiled in what she had no doubt was an attempt to obtain proof
that Malcolm was not the son of Mrs Stewart. The discovery was a
grateful one; for who could have told but there might be something
in existence to connect him with another origin than she and Mrs
Stewart would assign him?

The next day the marquis returned. Almost his first word was the
desire that Malcolm should be sent to him. But nobody knew more
than that he was missing; whereupon he sent for Duncan. The old
man explained his boy's absence, and as soon as he was dismissed,
took his way to the town, and called upon Miss Horn. In half an
hour, the good lady started on foot for Duff Harbour. It was already
growing dark; but there was one feeling Miss Horn had certainly
been created without, and that was fear.

As she approached her destination, tramping eagerly along, in
a half cloudy, half starlit night, with a damp east wind blowing
cold from the German Ocean, she was startled by the swift rush of
something dark across the road before her. It came out of a small
wood on the left towards the sea, and bolted through a hedge on
the right.

"Is that you, laird?" she cried; but there came no answer.

She walked straight to the house of her lawyer friend, and, after
an hour's rest, the same night set out again for Portlossie, which
she reached in safety by her bedtime.

Lord Lossie was very accessible. Like Shakspere's Prince Hal, he
was so much interested in the varieties of the outcome of human
character, that he would not willingly lose a chance of seeing
"more man." If the individual proved a bore, he would get rid of
him without remorse; if amusing, he would contrive to prolong the
interview. There was a great deal of undeveloped humanity somewhere
in his lordship, one of whose indications was this spectacular
interest in his kind. As to their bygone history, how they fared
out of his sight, or what might become of them, he never gave
a thought to anything of the kind--never felt the pull of one
of the bonds of brotherhood, laughed at them the moment they were
gone, or, if a woman's story had touched him, wiped his eyes with
an oath, and thought himself too good a fellow for this world.

Since his retirement from the more indolent life of the metropolis
to the quieter and more active pursuits of the country, his character
had bettered a little--inasmuch as it was a shade more accessible
to spiritual influences; the hard soil had in a few places cracked
a hair's breadth, and lay thus far open to the search of those sun
rays which, when they find the human germ, that is, the conscience,
straightway begin to sting it into life. To this betterment the
company of his daughter had chiefly contributed; for if she was
little more developed in the right direction than himself she was
far less developed in the wrong, and the play of affection between
them was the divinest influence that could as yet be brought to
bear upon either; but certain circumstances of late occurrence had
had a share in it, occasioning a revival of old memories which had
a considerably sobering effect upon him.

As he sat at breakfast, about eleven o'clock on the morning after
his return, one of his English servants entered with the message
that a person, calling herself Miss Horn, and refusing to explain
her business desired to see his lordship for a few minutes "Who is
she?" asked the marquis. The man did not know.

"What is she like?"

"An odd looking old lady, my lord, and very oddly dressed."

"Show her into the next room. I shall be with her directly."

Finishing his cup of coffee and peafowl's egg with deliberation,
while he tried his best to recall in what connection he could have
heard the name before, the marquis at length sauntered into the
morning room in his dressing gown, with the Times of the day before
yesterday, just arrived, in his hand. There stood his visitor
waiting for him, such as my reader knows her, black and gaunt and
grim, in a bay window, whose light almost surrounded her, so that
there was scarcely a shadow about her, and yet to the eyes of the
marquis she seemed wrapped in shadows. Mysterious as some sybil,
whose being held secrets the first whisper of which had turned her
old, but made her immortal, she towered before him, with her eyes
fixed upon him, and neither spoke nor moved.

"To what am I indebted--?" began his lordship; but Miss Horn
speedily interrupted his courtesy.

"Own to nae debt, my lord, till ye ken what it 's for," she said,
without a tone or inflection to indicate a pleasantry.

"Good!" returned his lordship, and waited with a smile. She promised
amusement, and he was ready for it--but it hardly came.

"Ken ye that han' o' wreet, my lord?" she inquired, sternly advancing
a step, and holding out a scrap of paper at arm's length, as if
presenting a pistol.

The marquis took it. In his countenance curiosity had mingled with
the expectation. He glanced at it. A shadow swept over his face but
vanished instantly: the mask of impervious non expression which a
man of his breeding always knows how to assume, was already on his
visage.

"Where did you get this?" he said quietly, with just the slightest
catch in his voice.

"I got it, my lord, whaur there's mair like it."

"Show me them."

"I hae shawn ye plenty for a swatch (pattern), my lord."

"You refuse?" said the marquis; and the tone of the question was
like the first cold puff that indicates a change of weather.

"I div, my lord," she answered imperturbably.

"If they are not my property, why do you bring me this?"

"Are they your property, my lord?"

"This is my handwriting."

"Ye alloo that?"

"Certainly, my good woman. You did not expect me to deny it?"

"God forbid, my lord! But will ye uphaud yersel' the lawfu' heir
to the deceased? It lies 'atween yer lordship an' mysel'--i' the
meantime."

He sat down, holding the scrap of paper between his finger and
thumb.

"I will buy them of you," he said coolly, after a moment's thought,
and as he spoke he looked keenly at her.

The form of reply which first arose in Miss Horn's indignant soul
never reached her lips.

"It's no my trade," she answered, with the coldness of suppressed
wrath. "I dinna deal in sic waurs."

"What do you deal in then?" asked the marquis.

"In trouth an' fair play, my lord," she answered, and was again
silent.

So was the marquis for some moments, but was the first to resume.

"If you think the papers to which you refer of the least value,
allow me to tell you it is an entire mistake."

"There was ane thoucht them o' vailue," replied Miss Horn--and
her voice trembled a little, but she hemmed away her emotion--
"for a time at least, my lord; an' for her sake they're o' vailue
to me, be they what they may to yer lordship. But wha can tell?
Scots law may put life intill them yet, an' gie them a vailue to
somebody forbye me."

"What I mean, my good woman, is, that if you think the possession
of those papers gives you any hold over me which you can turn to
your advantage, you are mistaken."

"Guid forgie ye, my lord! My advantage! I thoucht yer lordship had
been mair o' a gentleman by this time, or I wad hae sent a lawyer
till ye, in place o' comin' mysel'."

"What do you mean by that?"

"It's plain ye cudna hae been muckle o' a gentleman ance, my lord;
an' it seems ye're no muckle mair o' ane yet, for a' ye maun hae
come throu' i' the meantime."

"I trust you have discovered nothing in those letters to afford
ground for such a harsh judgment," said the marquis seriously.

"Na, no a word i' them, but the mair oot o' them. Ye winna threep
upo' me 'at a man wha lea's a wuman, lat alane his wife--or
ane 'at he ca's his wife--to a' the pains o' a mither, an' a'
the penalties o' an oonmerried ane, ohn ever speirt hoo she wan
throu' them, preserves the richt he was born till o' bein' coontit
a gentleman? Ony gait, a maiden, wuman like mysel' wha has nae
feelin's will not alloo him the teetle--Guid forbid it!"

"You are plain spoken."

"I 'm plain made, my lord. I ken guid frae ill, an' little forbye,
but aye fand that eneuch to sare my turn. Aither thae letters o'
yer lordship's are ilk ane o' them a lee, or ye desertit yer wife
an' bairn."

"Alas!" interrupted the marquis with some emotion--"she deserted
me--and took the child with her!"

"Wha ever daurt sic a lee upo' my Grizel?" shouted Miss Horn,
clenching and shaking her bony fist at the world in general. "It
was but a fortnicht or three weeks, as near as I can judge, efter
the birth o' your bairn, that Grizel Cam'ell--"

"Were you with her then?" again interrupted the marquis, in a tone
of sorrowful interest.

"No, my lord, I was not. Gien I had been, I wadna be upo' sic an
eeran' this day. For nigh twenty lang years 'at her 'an me keepit
hoose thegither, till she dee'd i' my airms, never a day was she
oot o' my sicht, or ance--"

The marquis leaped rather than started to his feet, exclaiming,
"What in the name of God do you mean, woman?"

"I kenna what ye mean, my lord. I ken 'at I 'm but tellin' ye the
trouth whan I tell ye 'at Grizel Cam'ell, up to that day,
an' that 's little ower sax month sin' syne."

"Good God!" cried the marquis; "and here have I--Woman! are you
speaking the truth? If--," he added threateningly, and paused.

"Leein' 's what I never cud bide, my lord, an' I 'm no likly to
tak till 't at my age, wi' the lang to come afore me."

The marquis strode several times up and down the floor. "I 'll
give you a thousand pounds for those letters," he said, suddenly
stopping in front of Miss Horn.

"They 're o' nae sic worth, my lord--I hae yer ain word for 't.
But I carena the leg o' a spin maggie (daddy longlegs)! Pairt wi'
them I will not, 'cep' to him 'at pruves himsel' the richtfu' heir
to them."

"A husband inherits from his wife."

"Or maybe her son micht claim first--I dinna ken. But there 's
lawyers, my lord, to redd the doot."

"Her son! You don't mean--"

"I div mean Ma'colm MacPhail, my lord."

"God in heaven!"

"His name 's mair i' yer mou' nor i' yer hert, I 'm doobtin', my
lord! Ye a' cry oot upo' him--the men o' ye--whan ye' 're in
ony tribble, or want to gar women believe ye! But I 'm thinkin' he
peys but little heed to sic prayers."

Thus Miss Horn; but Lord Lossie was striding up and down the room,
heedless of her remarks, his eyes on the ground, his arms straight
by his sides, and his hands clenched.

"Can you prove what you say?" he asked at length, half stopping,
and casting an almost wild look at Miss Horn, then resuming his
hurried walk. His voice sounded hollow, as if sent from the heart
of a gulf of pain.

"No, my lord," answered Miss Horn.

"Then what the devil," roared the marquis, "do you mean by coming
to me with such a cock and bull story."

"There 's naither cock craw nor bill rair intill 't my lord. I cum
to you wi' 't i' the houp ye 'll help to redd (clear) it up, for
I dinna weel ken what we can du wantin' ye. There 's but ane kens
a' the truth o' 't, an' she 's the awfu'es leear oot o' purgatory
--no 'at I believe in purgatory, but it 's the langer an' lichter
word to mak' use o'."

"Who is she?"

"By name she's Bauby Cat'nach, an' by natur' she's what I tell ye
--an' gien I had her 'atween my twa een, it 's what I wad say to
the face o' her."

"It can't be MacPhail! Mrs Stewart says he is her son, and the
woman Catanach is her chief witness in support of the claim."

"The deevil has a better to the twa o' them, my lord, as they 'll
ken some day. His claim 'll want nae supportin'. Dinna ye believe
a word Mistress Stewart or Bauby Catanach aither wad say to ye.--
Gien he be Mistress Stewart's, wha was his father?"

"You think he resembles my late brother: he has a look of him, I
confess."

"He has, my lord. But onybody 'at kent the mither o' 'im, as you
an' me did, my lord, wad see anither lik'ness as weel."

"I grant nothing."

"Ye grant Grizel Cam'ell yer wife, my lord, whan ye own to that
wreet. Gien 't war naething but a written promise an' a bairn to
follow, it wad be merriage eneuch i' this cuintry, though it mayna
be in cuintries no sae ceevileest."

"But all that is nothing as to the child. Why do you fix on this
young fellow? You say you can't prove it."

"But ye cud, my lord, gien ye war as set upo' justice as I am. Gien
ye winna muv i' the maitter, we s' manage to hirple (go halting)
throu' wantin ye, though, wi' the Lord's help."

The marquis, who had all this time continued his walk up and down
the floor, stood still, raised his head as if about to speak, dropped
it again on his chest, strode to the other window, turned, strode
back, and said,

"This is a very serious matter."

"It's a' that, my lord," replied Miss Horn.

"You must give me a little time to turn it over," said the marquis.

"Isna twenty year time eneuch, my lord?" rejoined Miss Horn.

"I swear to you that till this moment I believed her twenty years
in her grave. My brother sent me word that she died in childbed,
and the child with her. I was then in Brussels with the Duke."

Miss Horn made three great strides, caught the marquis's hand in
both hers, and said, "I praise God ye 're an honest man, my lord."

"I hope so," said the marquis, and seized the advantage "You'll hold
your tongue about this ?" he added, half inquiring, half requesting.

"As lang as I see rizzon, my lord, nae langer," answered Miss Horn,
dropping his hand. "Richt maun be dune."

"Yes--if you can tell what right is, and avoid wrong to others."

"Richt 's richt, my lord," persisted Miss Horn. "I 'll hae nae
modifi-qualifications!"

His lordship once more began to walk up and down the room every now
and then taking a stolen glance at Miss Horn, a glance of uneasy
anxious questioning. She stood rigid--a very Lot's wife of
immobility, her eyes on the ground, waiting what he would say next.

"I wish I knew whether I could trust her," he said at length, as
if talking aloud to himself.

Miss Horn took no notice.

"Why don't you speak, woman?" cried the marquis with irritation.
How he hated perplexity!

"Ye speired nae queston, my lord; an' gien ye had, my word has ower
little weicht to answer wi'."

"Can I trust you, woman--I want to know," said his lordship
angrily.

"No far'er, my lord, nor to du what I think 's richt."

"I want to be certain that you will do nothing with those letters
until you hear from me?" said the marquis, heedless of her reply.

"I 'll du naething afore the morn. Far'er nor that I winna pledge
mysel'," answered Miss Horn, and with the words moved towards the
door.

"Hadn't you better take this with you?" said the marquis, offering
the little note, which he had carried all the time between his
finger and thumb.

"There 's nae occasion. I hae plenty wantin' that. Only dinna lea'
't lyin' aboot."

"There 's small danger of that," said the marquis, and rang the
bell.

The moment she was out of the way, he went up to his own room, and,
flinging the door to, sat down at the table, and laid his arms and
head upon it. The acrid vapour of tears that should have been wept
long since, rose to his eyes: he dashed his hand across them, as
if ashamed that he was not even yet out of sight of the kingdom of
heaven. His own handwriting, of a period when all former sins and
defilements seemed about to be burned clean from his soul by the
fire of an honest and virtuous love, had moved him; for genuine
had been his affection for the girl who had risked and lost so much
for him. It was with no evil intent, for her influence had rendered
him for the time incapable of playing her false, but in part from
reasons of prudence, as he persuaded himself, for both their sakes,
and in part led astray by the zest which minds of a certain cast
derive from the secrecy of pleasure, that he had persuaded her to
the unequal yoking of honesty and secrecy. But, suddenly called
away and sent by the Prince on a private mission, soon after their
marriage, and before there was any special reason to apprehend
consequences that must lead to discovery, he had, in the difficulties
of the case and the hope of a speedy return, left her without any
arrangement for correspondence and all he had ever heard of her
more was from his brother, then the marquis--a cynical account
of the discovery of her condition, followed almost immediately by
a circumstantial one of her death and that of her infant. He was
deeply stung and the thought of her sufferings in the false position
where his selfishness had placed her, haunted him for a time beyond
his endurance--for of all things he hated suffering, and of all
sufferings remorse is the worst. Hence, where a wiser man might
have repented, he rushed into dissipation, whose scorching wind
swept away not only the healing dews of his sorrow, but the tender
buds of new life that had begun to mottle the withering tree of his
nature. The desire after better things which had, under his wife's
genial influence, begun to pass into effort, not only vanished
utterly in the shameless round of evil distraction, but its memory
became a mockery to the cynical spirit that arose behind the vanishing
angel of repentance; and he was soon in the condition of the man
from whom the exorcised demon had gone but to find his seven worse
companions.

Reduced at length to straits--almost to want, he had married the
mother of Florimel, to whom for a time he endeavoured to conduct
himself in some measure like a gentleman. For this he had been
rewarded by a decrease in the rate of his spiritual submergence,
but his bedraggled nature could no longer walk without treading
on its own plumes; and the poor lady who had bartered herself for
a lofty alliance, speedily found her mistake a sad one and her life
uninteresting, took to repining and tears, alienated her husband
utterly, and died of a sorrow almost too selfish to afford even a
suggestion of purifying efficacy. But Florimel had not inherited
immediately from her mother, so far as disposition was concerned; in
these latter days she had grown very dear to him, and his love had
once more turned his face a little towards the path of righteousness.
Ah! when would he move one step to set his feet in it?

And now, after his whirlwind harvest of evil knowledge, bitter
disappointment, and fading passion, in the gathering mists of gray
hopelessness, and the far worse mephitic air of indifference, he
had come all of a sudden upon the ghastly discovery that, while
overwhelmed with remorse for the vanished past, the present and
the future had been calling him, but had now also--that present
and that future--glided from him, and folded their wings of gloom
in the land of shadows. All the fierce time he might have been
blessedly growing better, instead of heaping sin upon sin until
the weight was too heavy for repentance; for, while he had been
bemoaning a dead wife, that wife had been loving a renegade husband!
And the blame of it all he did not fail to cast upon that Providence
in which until now he had professed not to believe: such faith as
he was yet capable of, awoke in the form of resentment! He judged
himself hardly done by; and the few admonitory sermons he had
happened to hear, especially that in the cave about the dogs going
round the walls of the New Jerusalem, returned upon him, not as
warnings, but as old threats now rapidly approaching fulfilment.

Lovely still peered the dim face of his girl wife upon him, through
the dusty lattice of his memory; and a mighty corroboration of
Malcolm's asserted birth lay in the look upon his face as he hurried
aghast from the hermit's cell; for not on his first had the marquis
seen that look and in those very circumstances! And the youth was
one to be proud of--one among a million! But there were other
and terrible considerations.

Incapable as he naturally was of doing justice to a woman of Miss
Horn's inflexibility in right, he could yet more than surmise the
absoluteness of that inflexibility--partly because it was hostile
to himself, and he was in the mood to believe in opposition and
harshness, and deny--not providence, but goodness. Convenient half
measures would, he more than feared, find no favour with her. But
she had declared her inability to prove Malcolm his son without the
testimony of Mrs Catanach, and the latter was even now representing
him as the son of Mrs Stewart! That Mrs Catanach at the same time
could not be ignorant of what had become of the child born to him,
he was all but certain; for, on that night when Malcolm and he
found her in the wizard's chamber, had she not proved her strange
story--of having been carried to that very room blindfolded,
and, after sole attendance on the birth of a child, whose mother's
features, even in her worst pains, she had not once seen, in like
manner carried away again,--had she not proved the story true
by handing him the ring she had drawn from the lady's finger, and
sewn, for the sake of future identification, into the lower edge of
one of the bed curtains--which ring was a diamond he had given
his wife from his own finger when they parted? She probably believed
the lady to have been Mrs Stewart, and the late marquis the father
of the child. Should he see Mrs Catanach? And what then?

He found no difficulty in divining the reasons which must have
induced his brother to provide for the secret accouchement of his
wife in the wizard's chamber, and for the abduction of the child
--if indeed his existence was not owing to Mrs Catanach's love
of intrigue. The elder had judged the younger brother unlikely to
live long, and had expected his own daughter to succeed himself.
But now the younger might any day marry the governess, and legalize
the child; and the elder had therefore secured the disappearance
of the latter, and the belief of his brother in the death of both.

Lord Lossie was roused from his reverie by a tap at the door, which
he knew for Malcolm's, and answered with admission.

When he entered, his master saw that a change had passed upon him,
and for a moment believed Miss Horn had already broken faith with
him and found communication with Malcolm. He was soon satisfied
of the contrary, however, but would have found it hard indeed to
understand, had it been represented to him, that the contentment,
almost elation, of the youth's countenance had its source in the
conviction that he was not the son of Mrs Stewart.

"So here you are at last!" said the marquis.

"Ay, my lord."

"Did you find Stewart?"

"Ay did we at last, my lord; but we made naething by 't, for he
kent noucht aboot the lassie, an 'maist lost his wuts at the news."

"No great loss, that!" said the marquis. "Go and send Stoat here."

"Is there ony hurry aboot Sto't, my lord?" asked Malcolm, hesitating.
"I had a word to say to yer lordship mysel'."

"Make haste then."

"I 'm some fain to gang back to the fishin', my lord," said Malcolm.
"This is ower easy a life for me. The deil wins in for the liftin'
o' the sneck. Forbye, my lord, a life wi'oot aither danger or wark
's some wersh-like (insipid); it wants saut, my lord. But a' that
's naither here nor there, I ken, sae lang's ye want me oot o' the
hoose, my lord."

"Who told you I wanted you out of the house? By Jove! I should have
made shorter work of it. What put that in your head? Why should
I?"

"Gien yer lordship kens nane, sma' occasion hae I to baud a rizzon
to yer han'. I thoucht--but the thoucht itsel's impidence."

"You young fool! You thought, because I came upon you as I did in
the garret the other night--Bah!--You damned ape! As if I could
not trust--! Pshaw!"

For the moment Malcolm forgot how angry his master had certainly
been, although, for Florimel's sake doubtless, he had restrained
himself; and fancied that, in the faint light of the one candle,
he had seen little to annoy him, and had taken the storm and its
results, which were indeed the sole reason, as a sufficient one for
their being alone together. Everything seemed about to come right
again. But his master remained silent.

"I houp my leddy's weel," ventured Malcolm at length.

"Quite well. She's with Lady Bellair, in Edinburgh."

Lady Bellair was the bold faced countess.

"I dinna like her," said Malcolm.

"Who the devil asked you to like her?" said the marquis. But he
laughed as he said it.

"I beg yer lordship's pardon," returned Malcolm. "I said it 'or I
kent. It was nane o' my business wha my leddy was wi'."

"Certainly not. But I don't mind confessing that Lady Bellair is
not one I should choose to give authority over Lady Florimel. You
have some regard for your young mistress, I know, Malcolm."

"I wad dee for her, my lord."

"That 's a common assertion," said the marquis.

"No wi' fisher fowk. I kenna hoo it may be wi' your fowk, my lord."

"Well, even with us it means something. It implies at least that he
who uses it would risk his life for her whom he wishes to believe
it. But perhaps it may mean more than that in the mouth of a
fisherman? Do you fancy there is such a thing as devotion--real
devotion, I mean--self sacrifice, you know?"

"I daurna doobt it, my lord."

"Without fee or hope of reward?"

"There maun be some cawpable o' 't, my lord, or what for sud the
warl' be? What ither sud haud it ohn been destroyt as Sodom was for
the want o' the ten richteous? There maun be saut whaur corruption
hasna the thing a' its ain gait."

"You certainly have pretty high notions of things, MacPhail. For
my part, I can easily enough imagine a man risking his life; but
devoting it!--that 's another thing altogether."

"There maun be 'at wad du a' 't cud be dune, my lord."

"What, for instance, would you do for Lady Florimel, now? You say
you would die for her: what does dying mean on a fisherman's tongue?"

"It means a' thing, my lord--short o' ill. I wad sterve for her,
but I wadna steal. I wad fecht for her, but I wadna lee."

"Would ye be her servant all your days? Come, now."

"Mair nor willin'ly, my lord--gien she wad only hae me, an' keep
me."

"But supposing you came to inherit the Kirkbyres property?"

"My lord," said Malcolm solemnly, "that 's a puir test to put me
till. It gangs for naething. I wad raither clean my leddie's butes
frae mornin' to nicht, nor be the son o' that wuman, gien she war
a born duchess. Try me wi' something worth yer lordship's mou'."

But the marquis seemed to think he had gone far enough for the
present. With gleaming eyes he rose, took his withered love letter
from the table, put it in his waistcoat pocket, and saying "Well,
find out for me what this is they're about with the schoolmaster,"
walked to the door.

"I ken a' aboot that, my lord," answered Malcolm, "ohn speirt at
onybody."

Lord Lossie turned from the door, ordered him to bring his riding
coat and boots, and, ringing the bell, sent a message to Stoat to
saddle the bay mare.



CHAPTER LXIV: THE LAIRD AND HIS MOTHER


When Malcolm and Joseph set out from Duff Harbour to find the laird,
they could hardly be said to have gone in search of him: all in
their power was to seek the parts where he was occasionally seen
in the hope of chancing upon him; and they wandered in vain about
the woods of Fife House all that week, returning disconsolate every
evening to the little inn on the banks of the Wan Water. Sunday came
and went without yielding a trace of him; and, almost in despair,
they resolved, if unsuccessful the next day, to get assistance and
organize a search for him. Monday passed like the days that had
preceded it, and they were returning dejectedly down the left bank
of the Wan Water, in the gloamin', and nearing a part where it
is hemmed in by precipitous rocks, and is very narrow and deep,
crawling slow and black under the lofty arch of an ancient bridge
that spans it at one leap, when suddenly they caught sight of a head
peering over the parapet. They dared not run for fear of terrifying
him, if it should be the laird, and hurried quietly to the spot.
But when they reached the end of the bridge its round back was bare
from end to end. On the other side of the river, the trees came
close up, and pursuit was hopeless in the gathering darkness.

"Laird, laird! they've taen awa' Phemy, an' we dinna ken whaur to
luik for her," cried the poor father aloud.

Almost the same instant, and as if he had issued from the ground,
the laird stood before them. The men started back with astonishment
--soon changed into pity, for there was light enough to see how
miserable the poor fellow looked. Neither exposure nor privation
had thus wrought upon him: he was simply dying of fear. Having
greeted Joseph with embarrassment, he kept glancing doubtfully at
Malcolm, as if ready to run on his least movement. In a few words
Joseph explained their quest, with trembling voice and tears that
would not be denied enforcing the tale. Ere he had done, the laird's
jaw had fallen, and further speech was impossible to him. But by
gestures sad and plain enough, he indicated that he knew nothing
of her, and had supposed her safe at home with her parents. In vain
they tried to persuade him to go back with them, promising every
protection: for sole answer he shook his head mournfully.

There came a sudden gust of wind among the branches. Joseph,
little used to trees and their ways with the wind, turned towards
the sound, and Malcolm unconsciously followed his movement. When
they turned again, the laird had vanished, and they took their way
homeward in sadness.

What passed next with the laird, can be but conjectured. It came
to be well enough known afterwards where he had been hiding; and
had it not been dusk as they came down the riverbank, the two men
might, looking up to the bridge from below, have had it suggested
to them. For in the half spandrel wall between the first arch and
the bank, they might have spied a small window, looking down on
the sullen, silent gloom, foam flecked with past commotion, that
crept languidly away from beneath. It belonged to a little vaulted
chamber in the bridge, devised by some banished lord as a kind of
summer house--long neglected, but having in it yet a mouldering
table, a broken chair or two, and a rough bench. A little path led
steep from the end of the parapet down to its hidden door. It was
now used only by the gamekeepers for traps and fishing gear, and
odds and ends of things, and was generally supposed to be locked
up. The laird had, however, found it open, and his refuge in it had
been connived at by one of the men, who, as they heard afterwards,
had given him the key, and assisted him in carrying out a plan he
had devised for barricading the door. It was from this place he
had so suddenly risen at the call of Blue Peter, and to it he had
as suddenly withdrawn again--to pass in silence and loneliness
through his last purgatorial pain.*

* [Com'io fui dentro, in un bogliente vetro
Gittato mi sarci per rinfrescarmi,
Tant' era ivi lo 'ncendio senza metro.
Del Purgatoria, xxvii. 49.]

Mrs Stewart was sitting in her drawing room alone: she seldom had
visitors at Kirkbyres--not that she liked being alone, or indeed
being there at all, for she would have lived on the Continent, but
that her son's trustees, partly to indulge their own aversion to
her, taking upon them a larger discretionary power than rightly
belonged to them, kept her too straitened, which no doubt in the
recoil had its share in poor Stephen's misery. It was only after
scraping for a whole year that she could escape to Paris or Hamburg,
where she was at home. There her sojourn was determined by her good
or ill fortune at faro.

What she meditated over her knitting by the firelight,--she had
put out her candles,--it would be hard to say, perhaps unwholesome
to think:--there are souls to look into which is, to our dim
eyes, like gazing down from the verge of one of the Swedenborgian
pits.

But much of the evil done by human beings is as the evil of evil
beasts: they know not what they do--an excuse which, except in
regard of the past, no man can make for himself, seeing the very
making of it must testify its falsehood.

She looked up, gave a cry, and started to her feet: Stephen stood
before her, halfway between her and the door. Revealed in a flicker
of flame from the fire, he vanished in the following shade, and
for a moment she stood in doubt of her seeing sense. But when the
coal flashed again, there was her son, regarding her out of great
eyes that looked as if they had seen death. A ghastly air hung
about him as if he had just come back from Hades, but in his silent
bearing there was a sanity, even dignity, which strangely impressed
her. He came forward a pace or two, stopped, and said--

"Dinna be frichtit, mem. I 'm come. Sen' the lassie hame, an' du
wi' me as ye like. I canna haud aff o' me. But I think I 'm deein',
an ye needna misguide me."

His voice, although it trembled a little, was clear and unimpeded,
and though weak, in its modulation manly.

Something in the woman's heart responded. Was it motherhood--
or the deeper godhead? Was it pity for the dignity housed in the
crumbling clay, or repentance for the son of her womb? Or was it
that sickness gave hope, and she could afford to be kind?

"I don't know what you mean, Stephen," she said, more gently than
he had ever heard her speak.

Was it an agony of mind or of body, or was it but a flickering
of the shadows upon his face? A moment, and he gave a half choked
shriek, and fell on the floor. His mother turned from him with
disgust, and rang the bell.

"Send Tom here," she said.

An elderly, hard featured man came.

"Stephen is in one of his fits," she said.

The man looked about him: he could see no one in the room but his
mistress.

"There he is," she continued, pointing to the floor. "Take him
away. Get him up to the loft and lay him in the hay."

The man lifted his master like an unwieldy log, and carried him
convulsed from the room.

Stephen's mother sat down again by the fire, and resumed her
knitting.



CHAPTER LXV: THE LAIRD'S VISION


Malcolm had just seen his master set out for his solitary ride,
when one of the maids informed him that a man from Kirkbyres wanted
him. Hiding his reluctance, he went with her and found Tom, who was
Mrs Stewart's grieve, and had been about the place all his days.

"Mr Stephen's come hame, sir," he said, touching his bonnet, a
civility for which Malcolm was not grateful.

"It's no possible!" returned Malcolm. "I saw him last nicht."

"He cam about ten o'clock, sir, an' hed a turn o' the fa'in' sickness
o' the spot. He 's verra ill the noo, an' the mistress sent me ower
to speir gien ye wad obleege her by gaein' to see him."

"Has he ta'en till 's bed?" asked Malcolm.

"We pat him till 't, sir. He 's ravin' mad, an' I 'm thinkin' he
's no far frae his hin'er en'."

"I 'll gang wi' ye direckly," said Malcolm.

In a few minutes they were riding fast along the road to Kirkbyres,
neither with much to say to the other, for Malcolm distrusted every
one about the place, and Tom was by nature taciturn.

"What garred them sen' for me--div ye ken?" asked Malcolm at
length, when they had gone about halfway.

"He cried oot upo' ye i' the nicht," answered Tom.

When they arrived, Malcolm was shown into the drawing room, where
Mrs Stewart met him with red eyes.

"Will you come and see my poor boy?" she said.

"I wull du that, mem. Is he verra ill?"

"Very. I 'm afraid he is in a bad way."

She led him to a dark old fashioned chamber, rich and gloomy.
There, sunk in the down of a huge bed with carved ebony posts, lay
the laird, far too ill to be incommoded by the luxury to which he
was unaccustomed. His head kept tossing from side to side, and his
eyes seemed searching in vacancy.

"Has the doctor been to see 'im, mem?" asked Malcolm.

"Yes; but he says he can't do anything for him."

"Wha waits upon 'im, mem?"

"One of the maids and myself."

I 'll jist bide wi' 'im."

"That will be very kind of you."

"I s' bide wi' 'im till I see 'im oot o' this, ae w'y or ither,"
added Malcolm, and sat down by the bedside of his poor distrustful
friend. There Mrs Stewart left him.

The laird was wandering in the thorny thickets and slimy marshes
which, haunted by the thousand misshapen honors of delirium, beset
the gates of life. That one so near the light, and slowly drifting
into it, should lie tossing in hopeless darkness! Is it that the
delirium falls, a veil of love, to hide other and more real terrors?

His eyes would now and then meet those of Malcolm, as they gazed
tenderly upon him, but the living thing that looked out of the
windows was darkened, and saw him not. Occasionally a word would
fall from him, or a murmur of half articulation float up, like
the sound of a river of souls; but whether Malcolm heard, or only
seemed to hear, something like this, he could not tell, for he could
not be certain that he had not himself shaped the words by receiving
the babble into the moulds of the laird's customary thought and
speech.

"I dinna ken whaur I cam frae!--I kenna whaur I 'm gaein' till.
--Eh, gien he wad but come oot an' shaw himsel'!--O Lord! tak
the deevil aff o' my puir back.--O Father o' lichts! gar him tak
the hump wi' him. I hae nae fawvour for 't, though it 's been my
constant companion this mony a lang."

But in general, he only moaned, and after the words thus heard or
fashioned by Malcolm, lay silent and nearly still for an hour.

All the waning afternoon Malcolm sat by his side, and neither
mother, maid, nor doctor came near them.

"Dark wa's an' no a breath!" he murmured or seemed to murmur again.
"Nae gerse, nor flooers, nor bees!--I hae na room for my hump,
an' I canna lie upo' 't, for that wad kill me!--Wull I ever ken
whaur I cam frae?--The wine 's unco guid. Gie me a drap mair, gien
ye please, Lady Horn.--I thought the grave was a better place.
I hae lain safter afore I dee'd!--Phemy! Phemy! Rin, Phemy, rin!
I s' bide wi' them this time. Ye rin, Phemy!"

As it grew dark, the air turned very chill, and snow began to fall
thick and fast Malcolm laid a few sticks on the smouldering peat
fire, but they were damp and did not catch. All at once the laird
gave a shriek, and crying out, "Mither, mither!" fell into a fit
so violent that the heavy bed shook with his convulsions. Malcolm
held his wrists and called aloud. No one came, and bethinking himself
that none could help, he waited in silence, for what would follow.

The fit passed quickly, and he lay quiet. The sticks had meantime
dried, and suddenly they caught fire and blazed up. The laird turned
his face towards the flame; a smile came over it; his eyes opened
wide, and with such an expression of seeing gazed beyond Malcolm,
that he turned his in the same direction.

"Eh, the bonny man! The bonny man!" murmured the laird.

But Malcolm saw nothing, and turned again to the laird: his jaw had
fallen, and the light was fading out of his face like the last of
a sunset. He was dead.

Malcolm rang the bell, told the woman who answered it what had taken
place, and hurried from the house, glad at heart that his friend
was at rest.

He had ridden but a short distance when he was overtaken by a boy
on a fast pony, who pulled up as he neared him.

"Whaur are ye for?" asked Malcolm.

"I'm gaein' for Mistress Cat'nach," answered the boy.

"Gang yer wa's than, an' dinna haud the deid waitin'," said Malcolm,
with a shudder.

The boy cast a look of dismay behind him, and galloped off.

The snow still fell, and the night was dark. Malcolm spent nearly
two hours on the way, and met the boy returning, who told him that
Mrs Catanach was not to be found.

His road lay down the glen, past Duncan's cottage, at whose door
he dismounted, but he did not find him. Taking the bridle on his
arm he walked by his horse the rest of the way. It was about nine
o'clock, and the night very dark. As he neared the house, he heard
Duncan's voice.

"Malcolm, my son! Will it pe your own self?" it said.

"It wull that, daddy," answered Malcolm.

The piper was sitting on a fallen tree, with the snow settling
softly upon him.

"But it's ower cauld for ye to be sittin' there i' the snaw, an'
the mirk tu!" added Malcolm.

"Ta tarkness will not be ketting to ta inside of her," returned
the seer. "Ah, my poy! where ta light kets in, ta tarkness will pe
ketting in too. Tis now, your whole pody will pe full of tarkness,
as ta piple will say, and Tuncan's pody--tat will pe full of ta
light." Then with suddenly changed tone he said "Listen, Malcolm,
my son! She 'll pe fery uneasy till you 'll wass pe come home."

"What's the maitter noo, daddy?" returned Malcolm. "Ony thing wrang
aboot the hoose?"

"Someting will pe wrong, yes, put she 'll not can tell where. No,
her pody will not pe full of light! For town here in ta curset
Lowlands, ta sight has peen almost cone from her, my son. It will
now pe no more as a co creeping troo' her, and she 'll nefer see
plain no more till she 'll pe cone pack to her own mountains."

"The puir laird's gane back to his," said Malcolm. "I won'er gien
he kens yet, or gien he gangs speirin' at ilk ane he meets gien he
can tell him whaur he cam frae. He's mad nae mair, ony gait."

"How? Will he pe not tead? Ta poor lairt! Ta poor maad lairt!"

"Ay, he's deid: maybe that's what 'll be troublin' yer sicht,
daddy."

"No, my son. Ta maad lairt was not fery maad, and if he was maad
he was not paad, and it was not to ta plame of him; he wass coot
always however."

"He was that, daddy."

"But it will pe something fery paad, and it will pe troubling her
speerit. When she'll pe take ta pipes, to pe amusing herself, and
will plow Till an crodh a' Dhonnachaidh (Turn the cows, Duncan),
out will pe come Cumhadh an fhir mhoir (The Lament of the Big Man).
All is not well, my son."

"Weel, dinna distress yersel', daddy. Lat come what wull come.
Foreseein' 's no forefen'in'. Ye ken yersel' 'at mony 's the time
the seer has broucht the thing on by tryin' to haud it aff."

"It will pe true, my son. Put it would aalways haf come."

"Nae doobt; sae ye jist come in wi' me, daddy, an' sit doon by the
ha' fire, an' I 'll come to ye as sune 's I've been to see 'at the
maister disna want me. But ye'll better come up wi' me to my room
first," he went on, "for the maister disna like to see me in onything
but the kilt."

"And why will he no pe in ta kilts aal as now?"

"I hae been ridin', ye ken, daddy, an' the trews fits the saiddle
better nor the kilts."

"She'll not pe knowing tat. Old Allister, your creat--her own
crandfather, was ta pest horseman ta worrlt efer saw, and he 'll
nefer pe hafing ta trews to his own lecks nor ta saddle to his
horse's pack. He 'll chust make his men pe strap on an old plaid,
and he 'll pe kive a chump, and away they wass, horse and man, one
peast, aal two of tem poth together."

Thus chatting they went to the stable, and from the stable to the
house, where they met no one, and went straight up to Malcolm's
room--the old man making as little of the long ascent as Malcolm
himself.



CHAPTER LXVI: THE CRY FROM THE CHAMBER


Brooding, if a man of his temperament may ever be said to brood,
over the sad history of his young wife and the prospects of his
daughter, the marquis rode over fields and through gates--he never
had been one to jump a fence in cold blood--till the darkness
began to fall; and the bearings of his perplexed position came
plainly before him.

First of all, Malcolm acknowledged, and the date of his mother's death
known, what would Florimel be in the eyes of the world? Supposing
the world deceived by the statement that his mother died when he
was born, where yet was the future he had marked out for her? He
had no money to leave her, and she must be helplessly dependent on
her brother.

Malcolm, on the other hand, might make a good match, or, with the
advantages he could secure him, in the army, still better in the
navy, well enough push his way in the world.

Miss Horn could produce no testimony; and Mrs Catanach had asserted
him the son of Mrs Stewart. He had seen enough, however, to make
him dread certain possible results if Malcolm were acknowledged
as the laird of Kirkbyres. No; there was but one hopeful measure,
one which he had even already approached in a tentative way--
an appeal, namely, to Malcolm himself--in which, acknowledging
his probable rights, but representing in the strongest manner
the difficulty of proving them, he would set forth, in their full
dismay, the consequences to Florimel of their public recognition,
and offer, upon the pledge of his word to a certain line of conduct,
to start him in any path he chose to follow.

Having thought the thing out pretty thoroughly, as he fancied, and
resolved at the same time to feel his way towards negotiations with
Mrs Catanach, he turned and rode home.

After a tolerable dinner, he was sitting over a bottle of the port
which he prized beyond anything else his succession had brought him,
when the door of the dining room opened suddenly, and the butler
appeared, pale with terror.

"My lord! my lord!" he stammered, as he closed the door behind him.

"Well? What the devil's the matter now? Whose cow's dead?"

"Your lordship didn't hear it then?" faltered the butler.

"You've been drinking, Bings," said the marquis, lifting his seventh
glass of port.

"I didn't say I heard it, my lord."

"Heard what--in the name of Beelzebub?"

"The ghost, my lord."

"The what?" shouted the marquis.

"That's what they call it, my lord. It 's all along of having that
wizard's chamber in the house, my lord."

"You're a set of fools," said the marquis, "the whole kit of you!"

"That's what I say, my lord. I don't know what to do with them,
stericking and screaming. Mrs Courthope is trying her best with
them; but it's my belief she's about as bad herself."

The marquis finished his glass of wine, poured out and drank another,
then walked to the door. When the butler opened it, a strange sight
met his eyes. All the servants in the house, men and women, Duncan
and Malcolm alone excepted, had crowded after the butler, every one
afraid of being left behind; and there gleamed the crowd of ghastly
faces in the light of the great hall fire. Demon stood in front,
his mane bristling, and his eyes flaming. Such was the silence that
the marquis heard the low howl of the waking wind, and the snow
like the patting of soft hands against the windows. He stood for a
moment, more than half enjoying their terror, when from somewhere
in the building a far off shriek, shrill and piercing, rang in
every ear. Some of the men drew in their breath with a gasping sob,
but most of the women screamed outright, and that set the marquis
cursing.

Duncan and Malcolm had but just entered the bedroom of the latter,
when the shriek rent the air close beside, and for a moment deafened
them. So agonized, so shrill, so full of dismal terror was it, that
Malcolm stood aghast, and Duncan started to his feet with responsive
outcry. But Malcolm at once recovered himself.

"Bide here till I come back," he whispered, and hurried noiselessly
out.

In a few minutes he returned--during which all had been still.
"Noo, daddy," he said, "I'm gaein' to drive in the door o' the
neist room. There 's some deevilry at wark there. Stan' ye i' the
door, an' ghaist or deevil 'at wad win by ye, grip it, an' haud on
like Demon the dog."

"She will so, she will so!" muttered Duncan in a strange tone. "Ochone!
that she'll not pe hafing her turk with her! Ochone! Ochone!"

Malcolm took the key of the wizard's chamber from his chest, and
his candle from the table, which he set down in the passage. In a
moment he had unlocked the door, put his shoulder to it, and burst
it open. A light was extinguished, and a shapeless figure went
gliding away through the gloom. It was no shadow, however, for,
dashing itself against a door at the other side of the chamber, it
staggered back with an imprecation of fury and fear, pressed two
hands to its head, and, turning at bay, revealed the face of Mrs
Catanach.

In the door stood the blind piper, with outstretched arms, and
hands ready to clutch, the fingers curved like claws, his knees
and haunches bent, leaning forward like a rampant beast prepared
to spring. In his face was wrath, hatred, vengeance, disgust--an
enmity of all mingled kinds.

Malcolm was busied with something in the bed, and when she turned,
Mrs Catanach saw only the white face of hatred gleaming through
the darkness.

"Ye auld donnert deevil!" she cried, with an addition too coarse
to be set down, and threw herself upon him.

The old man said never a word, but with indrawn breath hissing
through his clenched teeth, clutched her, and down they went together
in the passage, the piper undermost. He had her by the throat, it
is true, but she had her fingers in his eyes, and kneeling on his
chest, kept him down with a vigour of hostile effort that drew the
very picture of murder. It lasted but a moment, however, for the
old man, spurred by torture as well as hate, gathered what survived
of a most sinewy strength into one huge heave, threw her back into
the room, and rose, with the blood streaming from his eyes--just
as the marquis came round the near end of the passage, followed by
Mrs Courthope, the butler, Stoat, and two of the footmen. Heartily
enjoying a row, he stopped instantly, and signing a halt to his
followers, stood listening to the mud geyser that now burst from
Mrs Catanach's throat.

"Ye blin' abortion o' Sawtan's soo!" she cried, "didna I tak ye to
du wi' ye as I likit. An' that deil's tripe ye ca' yer oye (grandson)
--he! he!--him yer gran'son! He's naething but ane o' yer hatit
Cawm'ells!"

"A teanga a' diabhuil mhoir, tha thu ag deanamh breug (O tongue of
the great devil thou art making a lie)!" screamed Duncan, speaking
for the first time.

"God lay me deid i' my sins gien he be onything but a bastard
Cawm'ell!" she asseverated with a laugh of demoniacal scorn. "Yer
dautit (petted) Ma'colm 's naething but the dyke side brat o' the
late Grizel Cawm'ell, 'at the fowk tuik for a sant 'cause she grat
an' said naething. I laid the Cawm'ell pup i' yer boody (scarecrow)
airms wi' my ain han's, upo' the tap o' yer curst scraighin' bagpipes
'at sae aften drave the sleep frae my een. Na, ye wad nane o' me!
But I ga'e ye a Cawm'ell bairn to yer hert for a' that, ye auld,
hungert, weyver (spider) leggit, worm aten idiot!"

A torrent of Gaelic broke from Duncan, into the midst of which
rushed another from Mrs Catanach, similar, but coarse in vowel and
harsh in consonant sounds.

The marquis stepped into the room.

"What is the meaning of all this?" he said with dignity. The tumult
of Celtic altercation ceased. The piper drew himself up to his full
height, and stood silent. Mrs Catanach, red as fire with exertion
and wrath, turned ashy pale. The marquis cast on her a searching
and significant look.

"See here, my lord," said Malcolm.

Candle in hand, his lordship approached the bed. The same moment
Mrs Catanach glided out with her usual downy step, gave a wink as
of mutual intelligence to the group at the door, and vanished.

On Malcolm's arm lay the head of a young girl. Her thin, worn
countenance was stained with tears, and livid with suffocation.
She was recovering, but her eyes rolled stupid and visionless.

"It's Phemy, my lord--Blue Peter's lassie 'at was tint," said
Malcolm.

"It begins to look serious," said the marquis. "Mrs Catanach!--
Mrs Courthope!"

He turned towards the door. Mrs Courthope entered, and a head or two
peeped in after her. Duncan stood as before, drawn up and stately,
his visage working, but his body motionless as the statue of a
sentinel.

"Where is the Catanach woman gone?" cried the marquis.

"Cone!" shouted the piper. "Cone! and her huspant will pe waiting
to pe killing her! Och nan ochan!"

"Her husband!" echoed the marquis.

"Ach! she 'll not can pe helping it, my lort--no more till one
will pe tead--and tat should pe ta woman, for she 'll pe a paad
woman--ta worstest woman efer was married, my lort."

"That's saying a good deal," returned the marquis.

"Not one worrt more as enough, my lort," said Duncan "She was only
pe her next wife, put, ochone! ochone! why did she'll pe marry
her? You would haf stapt her long aco, my lort, if she'll was your
wife, and you was knowing the tamned fox and padger she was pe.
Ochone! and she tidn't pe have her turk at her hench nor her sgian
in her hose."

He shook his hands like a despairing child, then stamped and wept
in the agony of frustrated rage.

Mrs Courthope took Phemy in her arms, and carried her to her own
room, where she opened the window, and let the snowy wind blow full
upon her. As soon as she came quite to herself Malcolm set out to
bear the good tidings to her father and mother.

Only a few nights before had Phemy been taken to the room where
they found her. She had been carried from place to place, and had
been some time, she believed, in Mrs Catanach's own house. They had
always kept her in the dark, and removed her at night, blindfolded.
When asked if she had never cried out before, she said she had been
too frightened; and when questioned as to what had made her do so
then, she knew nothing of it: she remembered only that a horrible
creature appeared by the bedside, after which all was blank. On
the floor they found a hideous death mask, doubtless the cause of
the screams which Mrs Catanach had sought to stifle with the pillows
and bedclothes.

When Malcolm returned, he went at once to the piper's cottage, where
he found him in bed, utterly exhausted, and as utterly restless.

"Weel, daddy," he said, "I doobt I daurna come near ye noo."

"Come to her arms, my poor poy!" faltered Duncan. "She'll pe sorry
in her sore heart for her poy! Nefer you pe minding, my son; you
couldn't help ta Cam'ell mother, and you'll pe her own poy however.
Ochone! it will pe a plot upon you aal your tays, my son, and she'll
not can help you, and it 'll pe preaking her old heart!"

"Gien God thoucht the Cam'ells worth makin', daddy, I dinna see
'at I hae ony richt to compleen 'at I cam' o' them."

"She hopes you 'll pe forgifing ta plind old man, however. She
could n't see, or she would haf known at once petter."

"I dinna ken what ye 're efter noo, daddy," said Malcolm.

"That she'll do you a creat wrong, and she'll be ferry sorry for
it, my son."

"What wrang did ye ever du me, daddy?"

"That she was let you crow up a Cam'ell, my poy. If she tid put know
ta paad plood was pe in you, she wouldn't pe tone you ta wrong as
pring you up."

"That 's a wrang no ill to forgi'e, daddy. But it 's a pity ye
didna lat me lie, for maybe syne Mistress Catanach wad hae broucht
me up hersel', an' I micht hae come to something."

"Ta duvil mhor (great) would pe in your heart and prain and poosom,
my son."

"Weel, ye see what ye hae saved me frae."

"Yes; put ta duvil will pe to pay, for she couldn't safe you from
ta Cam'ell plood, my son! Malcolm, my poy," he added after a pause,
and with the solemnity of a mighty hate, "ta efil woman herself
will pe a Cam'ell--ta woman Catanach will pe a Cam'ell, and her
nain sel' she'll not know it pefore she 'll be in ta ped with the
worsest Cam'ell tat ever God made--and she pecks his pardon, for
she'll not pelieve he wass making ta Cam'ells."

"Divna ye think God made me, daddy?" asked Malcolm.

The old man thought for a little.

"Tat will tepend on who was pe your father, my son," he replied.
"If he too will be a Cam'ell--ochone! ochone! Put tere may pe
some coot plood co into you, more as enough to say God will pe make
you, my son. Put don't pe asking, Malcolm. Ton't you 'll pe asking."

"What am I no to ask, daddy?"

"Ton't pe asking who made you--who was ta father to you, my poy.
She would rather not pe knowing, for ta man might pe a Cam'ell
poth. And if she couldn't pe lofing you no more, my son, she would
pe tie pefore her time, and her tays would pe long in ta land under
ta crass, my son."

But the memory of the sweet face whose cold loveliness he had once
kissed, was enough to outweigh with Malcolm all the prejudices of
Duncan's instillation, and he was proud to take up even her shame.
To pass from Mrs Stewart to her, was to escape from the clutches
of a vampire demon to the arms of a sweet mother angel.

Deeply concerned for the newly discovered misfortunes of the old
man to whom he was indebted for this world's life at least, he
anxiously sought to soothe him; but he had far more and far worse
to torment him than Malcolm even yet knew, and with burning cheeks
and bloodshot eyes, he lay tossing from side to side, now uttering
terrible curses in Gaelic, and now weeping bitterly. Malcolm took
his loved pipes, and with the gentlest notes he could draw from
them tried to charm to rest the ruffled waters of his spirit; but
his efforts were all in vain, and believing at length that he would
be quieter without him, he went to the House, and to his own room.

The door of the adjoining chamber stood open, and the long forbidden
room lay exposed to any eye. Little did Malcolm think as he gazed
around it, that it was the room in which he had first breathed the
air of the world; in which his mother had wept over her own false
position and his reported death; and from which he had been carried,
by Duncan's wicked wife, down the ruinous stair, and away to the
lip of the sea, to find a home in the arms of the man whom he had
just left on his lonely couch, torn between the conflicting emotions
of a gracious love for him, and the frightful hate of her.



CHAPTER LXVII: FEET OF WOOL


The next day, Miss Horn, punctual as Fate, presented herself at
Lossie House, and was shown at once into the marquis's study, as
it was called. When his lordship entered, she took the lead the
moment the door was shut.

"By this time, my lord, ye 'll doobtless hae made up yer min' to
du what 's richt?" she said.

"That 's what I have always wanted to do," returned the marquis.

"Hm!" remarked Miss Horn, as plainly as inarticulately.

"In this affair," he supplemented; adding, "It 's not always so
easy to tell what is right!"

"It's no aye easy to luik for 't wi' baith yer een," said Miss
Horn.

"This woman Catanach--we must get her to give credible testimony.
Whatever the fact may be, we must have strong evidence. And there
comes the difficulty, that she has already made an altogether
different statement."

"It gangs for naething, my lord. It was never made afore a justice
o' the peace."

"I wish you would go to her, and see how she is inclined."

"Me gang to Bawbie Catanach!" exclaimed Miss Horn. "I wad as sune
gang an' kittle Sawtan's nose wi' the p'int o' 's tail. Na, na, my
lord! Gien onybody gang till her wi' my wull, it s' be a limb o'
the law. I s' hae nae cognostin' wi' her."

"You would have no objection, however, to my seeing her, I presume
--just to let her know that we have an inkling of the truth?" said
the marquis.

Now all this was the merest talk, for of course Miss Horn could
not long remain in ignorance of the declaration fury had, the night
previous, forced from Mrs Catanach; but he must, he thought, put
her off and keep her quiet, if possible, until he had come to an
understanding with Malcolm, after which he would no doubt have his
trouble with her.

"Ye can du as yer lordship likes," answered Miss Horn; "but I wadna
hae 't said o' me 'at I had ony dealin's wi' her. Wha kens but she
micht say ye tried to bribe her? There 's naething she wad bogle
at gien she thoucht it worth her while. No 'at I 'm feart at her.
Lat her lee! I 'm no sae blate but--! Only dinna lippen till a
word she says, my lord."

The marquis meditated.

"I wonder whether the real source of my perplexity occurs to you,
Miss Horn," he said at length. "You know I have a daughter?"

"Weel eneuch that, my lord."

"By my second marriage."

"Nae merridge ava', my lord."

"True,--if I confess to the first."

"A' the same, whether or no, my lord."

"Then you see," the marquis went on, refusing offence, "what the
admission of your story would make of my daughter?"

"That's plain eneuch, my lord."

"Now, if I have read Malcolm right, he has too much regard for his
--mistress--to put her in such a false position."

"That is, my lord, ye wad hae yer lawfu' son beir the lawless name."

"No, no; it need never come out what he is. I will provide for him
--as a gentleman, of course."

"It canna be, my lord. Ye can du naething for him wi' that face o'
his, but oot comes the trouth as to the father o' 'im; an' it wadna
be lang afore the tale was ekit oot wi' the name o' his mither--
Mistress Catanach wad see to that, gien 'twas only to spite me; an'
I wunna hae my Grizel ca'd what she is not, for ony lord's dauchter
i' the three kynriks."

"What does it matter, now she 's dead and gone?" said the marquis,
false to the dead in his love for the living.

"Deid an' gane, my lord! What ca' ye deid an' gane? Maybe the great
anes o' the yerth get sic a forlethie (surfeit) o' gran'ur 'at they
're for nae mair, an' wad perish like the brute beast. For onything
I ken, they may hae their wuss, but for mysel', I wad warstle to
haud my sowl waukin' (awake), i' the verra article o' deith, for
the bare chance o' seein' my bonny Grizel again.--It 's a mercy
I hae nae feelin's!" she added, arresting her handkerchief on its
way to her eyes, and refusing to acknowledge the single tear that
ran down her cheek.

Plainly she was not like any of the women whose characters the
marquis had accepted as typical of womankind.

"Then you won't leave the matter to her husband and son," he said
reproachfully.

"I tellt ye, my lord, I wad du naething but what I saw to be richt.
Lat this affair oot o' my han's I daurna. That laad ye micht work
to onything 'at made agane himsel'. He 's jist like his puir mither
there."

"If Miss Campbell was his mother," said the marquis.

"Miss Cam'ell!" cried Miss Horn. "I 'll thank yer lordship to ca'
her by her ain, 'an that 's Lady Lossie."

What if the something ruinous heart of the marquis was habitable,
was occupied by his daughter, and had no accommodation at present
either for his dead wife or his living son. Once more he sat thinking
in silence for a while.

"I'll make Malcolm a post captain in the navy, and give you a
thousand pounds," he said at length, hardly knowing that he spoke.

Miss Horn rose to her full height, and stood like an angel of
rebuke before him. Not a word did she speak, only looked at him
for a moment, and turned to leave the room. The marquis saw his
danger, and striding to the door, stood with his back against it.

"Think ye to scare me, my lord?" she asked, with a scornful laugh.
"Gang an' scare the stane lion beast at yer ha' door. Haud oot o'
the gait, an' lat me gang."

"Not until I know what you are going to do," said the marquis, very
seriously.

"I hae naething mair to transac' wi' yer lordship. You an' me 's
strangers, my lord."

"Tut! tut! I was but trying you."

"An' gien I had taen the disgrace ye offert me, ye wad hae drawn
back?"

"No, certainly."

"Ye wasna tryin' me than: ye was duin' yer best to corrup' me."

"I 'm no splitter of hairs."

"My lord, it 's nane but the corrup'ible wad seek to corrup'."

The marquis gnawed a nail or two in silence. Miss Horn dragged an
easy chair within a couple of yards of him.

"We 'll see wha tires o' this ghem first, my lord!" she said, as
she sank into its hospitable embrace.

The marquis turned to lock the door, but there was no key in it.
Neither was there any chair within reach, and he was not fond of
standing. Clearly his enemy had the advantage.

"Hae ye h'ard o' puir Sandy Graham--hoo they 're misguidin' him,
my lord?" she asked with composure.

The marquis was first astounded, and then tickled by her assurance.

"No," he answered.

"They hae turnt him oot o' hoose an' ha'--schuil, at least, an'
hame," she rejoined. "I may say, they hae turnt him oot o' Scotlan';
for what presbytery wad hae him efter he had been fun' guilty o' no
thinkin' like ither fowk? Ye maun stan' his guid freen', my lord."

"He shall be Malcolm's tutor," answered the marquis, not to be
outdone in coolness, "and go with him to Edinburgh--or Oxford,
if he prefers it."

"Never yerl o' Colonsay had a better!" said Miss Horn.

"Softly, softly, ma'am!" returned the marquis. "I did not say he
should go in that style."

"He 's gang as my lord o' Colonsay, or he s' no gang at your expense,
my lord," said his antagonist.

"Really, ma'am, one would think you were my grandmother, to hear
you order my affairs for me."

"I wuss I war, my lord: I sud gar ye hear rizzon upo' baith sides
o' yer heid, I s' warran'!"

The marquis laughed.

"Well, I can't stand here all day!" he said, impatiently swinging
one leg.

"I 'm weel awaur o' that, my lord," answered Miss Horn, rearranging
her scanty skirt.

"How long are ye going to keep me, then?"

"I wadna hae ye bide a meenute langer nor 's agreeable to yersel'.
But I 'm in nae hurry sae lang 's ye 're afore me. Ye 're nae ill
to luik at--though ye maun hae been bonnier the day ye wan the
hert o' my Grizzel."

The marquis uttered an oath, and left the door. Miss Horn sprang
to it; but there was the marquis again.

"Miss Horn," he said, "I beg you will give me another day to think
of this."

"Whaur 's the use? A' the thinkin' i' the warl' canna alter a single
fac'. Ye maun du richt by my laddie o' yer ain sel', or I maun gar
ye."

"You would find a lawsuit heavy, Miss Horn."

"An' ye wad fin' the scandal o' 't ill to bide, my lord. It wad
come sair upo' Miss--I kenna what name she has a richt till, my
lord."

The marquis uttered a frightful imprecation, left the door, and
sitting down, hid his face in his hands.

Miss Horn rose, but instead of securing her retreat, approached
him gently, and stood by his side.

"My lord," she said, "I canna thole to see a man in tribble. Women
's born till 't, an' they tak it, an' are thankfu'; but a man never
gies in till 't, an' sae it comes harder upo' him nor upo' them.
Hear me, my lord: gien there be a man upo' this earth wha wad shield
a wuman, that man 's Ma'colm Colonsay."

"If only she weren't his sister!" murmured the marquis.

"An' jist bethink ye, my lord: wad it be onything less nor an
imposition to lat a man merry her ohn tellt him what she was?"

"You insolent old woman!" cried the marquis, losing his temper,
discretion, and manners, all together. "Go and do your worst, and
be damned to you!"

So saying, he left the room, and Miss Horn found her way out of the
house in a temper quite as fierce as his,--in character, however,
entirely different, inasmuch as it was righteous.

At that very moment Malcolm was in search of his master; and seeing
the back of him disappear in the library, to which he had gone in
a half blind rage, he followed him. "My lord!" he said.

"What do you want?" returned his master in a rage. For some time
he had been hauling on the curb rein, which had fretted his temper
the more; and when he let go, the devil ran away with him.

"I thoucht yer lordship wad like to see an auld stair I cam upo'
the ither day, 'at gang's frae the wizard's chaumer."

"Go to hell with your damned tomfoolery!" said the marquis "If ever
you mention that cursed hole again, I'll kick you out of the house."

Malcolm's eyes flashed, and a fierce answer rose to his lips, but
he had seen that his master was in trouble, and sympathy supplanted
rage. He turned and left the room in silence.

Lord Lossie paced up and down the library for a whole hour--a
long time for him to be in one mood. The mood changed colour pretty
frequently during the hour, however, and by degrees his wrath
assuaged. But at the end of it he knew no more what he was going to
do than when he left Miss Horn in the study. Then came the gnawing
of his usual ennui and restlessness: he must find something to do.

The thing he always thought of first was a ride; but the only
animal of horse kind about the place which he liked was the bay
mare, and her he had lamed. He would go and see what the rascal
had come bothering about--alone though, for he could not endure
the sight of the fisher fellow--damn him!

In a few moments he stood in the wizard's chamber, and glanced round
it with a feeling of discomfort rather than sorrow--of annoyance
at the trouble of which it had been for him both fountain and
storehouse, rather than regret for the agony and contempt which
his selfishness had brought upon the woman he loved; then spying
the door in the furthest corner, he made for it, and in a moment
more, his curiosity, now thoroughly roused, was slowly gyrating
down the steps of the old screw stair. But Malcolm had gone to his
own room, and hearing some one in the next, half suspected who it
was, and went in. Seeing the closet door open, he hurried to the
stair, and shouted, "My lord! my lord! or whaever ye are! tak care
hoo ye gang, or ye'll get a terrible fa'."

Down a single yard the stair was quite dark, and he dared not follow
fast for fear of himself falling and occasioning the accident he
feared. As he descended, he kept repeating his warnings, but either
his master did not hear or heeded too little, for presently Malcolm
heard a rush, a dull fall, and a groan. Hurrying as fast as he
dared with the risk of falling upon him, he found the marquis lying
amongst the stones in the ground entrance, apparently unable to
move, and white with pain. Presently, however, he got up, swore a
good deal, and limped swearing into the house.

The doctor, who was sent for instantly pronounced the knee cap
injured, and applied leeches. Inflammation set in, and another
doctor and surgeon were sent for from Aberdeen. They came; applied
poultices, and again leeches, and enjoined the strictest repose.
The pain was severe; but to one of the marquis's temperament, the
enforced quiet was worse.



CHAPTER LXVIII: HANDS OF IRON


The marquis was loved by his domestics; and his accident, with its
consequences, although none more serious were anticipated, cast a
gloom over Lossie House. Far apart as was his chamber from all the
centres of domestic life, the pulses of his suffering beat as it
were through the house, and the servants moved with hushed voice
and gentle footfall.

Outside, the course of events waited upon his recovery, for Miss
Horn was too generous not to delay proceedings while her adversary
was ill. Besides, what she most of all desired was the marquis's
free acknowledgment of his son; and after such a time of suffering
and constrained reflection as he was now passing through, he could
hardly fail, she thought, to be more inclined to what was just and
fair.

Malcolm had of course hastened to the schoolmaster with the joy of
his deliverance from Mrs Stewart; but Mr Graham had not acquainted
him with the discovery Miss Horn had made, or her belief concerning
his large interest therein, to which Malcolm's report of the wrath
born declaration of Mrs Catanach had now supplied the only testimony
wanting, for the right of disclosure was Miss Horn's. To her he had
carried Malcolm's narrative of late events, tenfold strengthening
her position; but she was anxious in her turn that the revelation
concerning his birth should come to him from his father. Hence
Malcolm continued in ignorance of the strange dawn that had begun
to break on the darkness of his origin.

Miss Horn had told Mr Graham what the marquis had said about the
tutorship; but the schoolmaster only shook his head with a smile,
and went on with his preparations for departure.

The hours went by; the days lengthened into weeks, and the marquis's
condition did not improve. He had never known sickness and pain
before, and like most of the children of this world, counted them
the greatest of evils; nor was there any sign of their having as yet
begun to open his eyes to what those who have seen them call truths,
those who have never even boded their presence count absurdities.

More and more, however, he desired the attendance of Malcolm, who
was consequently a great deal about him, serving with a love to
account for which those who knew his nature would not have found
it necessary to fall back on the instinct of the relation between
them. The marquis had soon satisfied himself that that relation
was as yet unknown to him, and was all the better pleased with his
devotion and tenderness.

The inflammation continued, increased, spread, and at length the
doctors determined to amputate. But the marquis was absolutely
horrified at the idea,--shrank from it with invincible repugnance.
The moment the first dawn of comprehension vaguely illuminated
their periphrastic approaches, he blazed out in a fury, cursed them
frightfully, called them all the contemptuous names in his rather
limited vocabulary, and swore he would see them--uncomfortable
first.

"We fear mortification, my lord," said the physician calmly.

"So do I. Keep it off," returned the marquis.

"We fear we cannot, my lord."

It had, in fact, already commenced.

"Let it mortify, then, and be damned," said his lordship.

"I trust, my lord, you will reconsider it," said the surgeon. "We
should not have dreamed of suggesting a measure of such severity
had we not had reason to dread that the further prosecution of
gentler means would but lessen your lordship's chance of recovery."

"You mean then that my life is in danger?"

"We fear," said the physician, "that the amputation proposed is
the only thing that can save it."

"What a brace of blasted bunglers you are!" cried the marquis,
and turning away his face, lay silent. The two men looked at each
other, and said nothing.

Malcolm was by, and a keen pang shot to his heart at the verdict.
The men retired to consult. Malcolm approached the bed.

"My lord!" he said gently.

No reply came.

"Dinna lea 's oor lanes, my lord--no yet," Malcolm persisted.
"What 's to come o' my leddy?"

The marquis gave a gasp. Still he made no reply.

"She has naebody, ye ken, my lord, 'at ye wad like to lippen her
wi'."

"You must take care of her when I am gone, Malcolm,' murmured the
marquis; and his voice was now gentle with sadness and broken with
misery.

"Me, my lord!" returned Malcolm. "Wha wad min' me? An' what cud
I du wi' her? I cudna even haud her ohn wat her feet. Her leddy's
maid cud du mair wi' her--though I wad lay doon my life for her,
as I tauld ye, my lord--an' she kens 't weel eneuch."

Silence followed. Both men were thinking.

"Gie me a richt, my lord, an' I'll du my best," said Malcolm, at
length breaking the silence.

"What do you mean?" growled the marquis, whose mood had altered.

"Gie me a legal richt, my lord, an' see gien I dinna."

"See what?"

"See gien I dinna luik weel efter my leddy."

"How am I to see? I shall be dead and damned."

"Please God, my lord, ye'll be alive an' weel--in a better place,
if no here to luik efter my leddy yersel'."

"Oh, I dare say!" muttered the marquis.

"But ye'll hearken to the doctors, my lord," Malcolm went on, "an'
no dee wantin' time to consider o' 't."

"Yes, yes; tomorrow I'll have another talk with them. We'll see
about it. There's time enough yet. They're all cox combs--every
one of them. They never give a patient the least credit for common
sense."

"I dinna ken, my lord," said Malcolm doubtfully.

After a few minutes' silence, during which Malcolm thought he had
fallen asleep, the marquis resumed abruptly.

"What do you mean by giving you a legal right?" he said.

"There's some w'y o' makin' ae body guairdian till anither, sae
'at the law 'ill uphaud him--isna there, my lord?"

"Yes, surely. Well!--Rather odd--wouldn't it be?--A young
fisher lad guardian to a marchioness! Eh? They say there's nothing
new under the sun; but that sounds rather like it, I think."

Malcolm was overjoyed to hear him speak with something like his old
manner. He felt he could stand any amount of chaff from him now,
and so the proposition he had made in seriousness, he went on
to defend in the hope of giving amusement, yet with a secret wild
delight in the dream of such full devotion to the service of Lady
Florimel.

"It wad soon' queer eneuch, my lord, nae doobt; but fowk maunna min'
the soon' o' a thing gien 't be a' straucht an' fair, an' strong
eneuch to stan'. They cudna lauch me oot o' my richts, be they 'at
they likit--Lady Bellair, or ony o' them--na, nor jaw me oot
o' them aither!"

"They might do a good deal to render those rights of little use,"
said the marquis.

"That wad come till a trial o' brains, my lord," returned Malcolm;
"an' ye dinna think I wadna hae the wit to speir advice--an'
what's mair, to ken whan it was guid, an' tak it! There's lawyers,
my lord."

"And their expenses?"

"Ye cud lea' sae muckle to be waured (spent) upo' the cairryin'
oot o' yer lordship's wull."

"Who would see that you applied it properly?"

"My ain conscience, my lord--or Mr Graham, gien ye likit."

"And how would you live yourself?"

"Ow! lea' ye that to me, my lord. Only dinna imaigine I wad be
behauden to yer lordship. I houp I hae mair pride nor that. Ilka
poun' not', shillin', an' baubee sud be laid oot for her, an' what
was left hainet (saved) for her."

"By Jove! it's a daring proposal!" said the marquis; and, which
seemed strange to Malcolm, not a single thread of ridicule ran
through the tone in which he made the remark.

The next day came, but brought neither strength of body nor of mind
with it. Again his professional attendants besought him, and he heard
them more quietly, but rejected their proposition as positively as
before. In a day or two he ceased to oppose it, but would not hear
of preparation. Hour glided into hour, and days had gathered to a
week, when they assailed him with a solemn and last appeal.

"Nonsense!" answered the marquis. "My leg is getting better. I
feel no pain--in fact nothing but a little faintness. Your damned
medicines, I haven't a doubt."

"You are in the greatest danger, my lord. It is all but too late
even now."

"Tomorrow, then--if it must be. Today I could not endure to have
my hair cut--positively; and as to having my leg off,--pooh!
the thing's preposterous!"

He turned white and shuddered, for all the nonchalance of his
speech.

When tomorrow came, there was not a surgeon in the land who would
have taken his leg off. He looked in their faces, and seemed for
the first time convinced of the necessity of the measure.

"You may do as you please," he said. "I am ready."

"Not today, my lord," replied the doctor. "Your lordship is not
equal to it today."

"I understand," said the marquis, paled frightfully, and turned
his head aside.

When Mrs Courthope suggested that Lady Florimel should be sent
for, he flew into a frightful rage, and spoke as it is to be hoped
he had never spoken to a woman before. She took it with perfect
gentleness, but could not repress a tear. The marquis saw it, and
his heart was touched.

"You mustn't mind a dying man's temper," he said.

"It's not for myself, my lord," she answered.

"I know: you think I 'm not fit to die; and, damn it! you are right.
Never one was less fit for heaven, or less willing to go to hell."

"Wouldn't you like to see a clergyman, my lord?" she suggested,
sobbing.

He was on the point of breaking out in a still worse passion, but
controlled himself.

"A clergyman!" he cried; "I would as soon see the undertaker. What
could he do but tell me I was going to be damned--a fact I know
better than he can? That is, if it 's not all an invention of the
cloth, as, in my soul, I believe it is! I 've said so any time this
forty years."

"Oh, my lord, my lord! do not fling away your last hope."

"You imagine me to have a chance then? Good soul! You don't know
better!"

"The Lord is merciful."

The marquis laughed--that is, he tried, failed, and grinned.

"Mr Cairns is in the dining room, my lord."

"Bah! A low pettifogger, with the soul of a bullock! Don't let me
hear the fellow's name. I 've been bad enough, God knows! but I
haven't sunk to the level of his help yet. If he 's God Almighty's
factor, and the saw holds--'Like master, like man!' well, I would
rather have nothing to do with either."

"That is, if you had the choice, my lord," said Mrs Courthope, her
temper yielding a little, though in truth his speech was not half
so irreverent as it seemed to her.

"Tell him to go to hell. No, don't: set him down to a bottle of port
and a great sponge cake and you needn't tell him to go to heaven,
for he 'll be there already. Why, Mrs Courthope, the fellow isn't
a gentleman! And yet all he cares for the cloth is, that he thinks
it makes a gentleman of him--as if anything in heaven, earth, or
hell could work that miracle!"

In the middle of the night, as Malcolm sat by his bed, thinking
him asleep, the marquis spoke suddenly.

"You must go to Aberdeen tomorrow, Malcolm," he said.

"Verra weel, my lord."

"And bring Mr Glennie, the lawyer, back with you."

"Yes, my lord."

"Go to bed then."

"I wad raither bide, my lord. I cudna sleep a wink for wantin' to
be back aside ye."

The marquis yielded, and Malcolm sat by him all the night through.
He tossed about, would doze off and murmur strangely, then wake
up and ask for brandy and water, yet be content with the lemonade
Malcolm gave him.

Next day he quarrelled with every word Mrs Courthope uttered, kept
forgetting he had sent Malcolm away, and was continually wanting
him. His fits of pain were more severe, alternated with drowsiness,
which deepened at times to stupor.

It was late before Malcolm returned. He went instantly to his
bedside.

"Is Mr Glennie with you?" asked his master feebly.

"Yes, my lord."

"Tell him to come here at once."

When Malcolm returned with the lawyer, the marquis directed him
to set a table and chair by the bedside, light four candles, get
everything necessary for writing, and go to bed.



CHAPTER LXIX: THE MARQUIS AND THE SCHOOLMASTER


Before Malcolm was awake, his lordship had sent for him. When he
re-entered the sick chamber, Mr Glennie had vanished, the table
had been removed, and instead of the radiance of the wax lights,
the cold gleam of a vapour dimmed sun, with its sickly blue white
reflex from the wide spread snow, filled the room. The marquis
looked ghastly, but was sipping chocolate with a spoon.

"What w'y are ye the day, my lord?" asked Malcolm.

"Nearly well," he answered; "but those cursed carrion crows are
set upon killing me--damn their souls!"

"We'll hae Leddy Florimel sweirin' awfu', gien ye gang on that
gait, my lord," said Malcolm.

The marquis laughed feebly.

"An' what 's mair," Malcolm continued, "I doobt they 're some
partic'lar aboot the turn o' their phrases up yonner, my lord."

The marquis looked at him keenly.

"You don't anticipate that inconvenience for me?" he said. "I 'm
pretty sure to have my billet where they 're not so precise."

"Dinna brak my hert, my lord!" cried Malcolm, the tears rushing to
his eyes.

"I should be sorry to hurt you, Malcolm," rejoined the marquis gently,
almost tenderly. "I won't go there if I can help it. I should n't
like to break any more hearts. But how the devil am I to keep out
of it? Besides, there are people up there I don't want to meet; I
have no fancy for being made ashamed of myself. The fact is I 'm
not fit for such company, and I don't believe there is any such
place. But if there be, I trust in God there isn't any other, or it
will go badly with your poor master, Malcolm. It doesn't look like
true--now does it? Only such a multitude of things I thought I
had done with for ever, keep coming up and grinning at me! It nearly
drives me mad, Malcolm--and I would fain die like a gentleman,
with a cool bow and a sharp face about."

"Wadna ye hae a word wi' somebody 'at kens, my lord?" said Malcolm,
scarcely able to reply.

"No," answered the marquis fiercely. "That Cairns is a fool."

"He's a' that an' mair, my lord. I didna mean him."

"They 're all fools together.'

"Ow, na, my lord! There 's a heap o' them no muckle better, it may
be; but there 's guid men an' true amang them, or the kirk wad hae
been wi' Sodom and Gomorrha by this time. But it 's no a minister
I wad hae yer lordship confar wi'."

"Who then? Mrs Courthope? Eh?"

"Ow na, my lord--no Mistress Coorthoup! She 's a guid body, but
she wadna believe her ain een gien onybody ca'd a minister said
contrar' to them."

"Who the devil do you mean then?"

"Nae deevil, but an honest man 'at 's been his warst enemy sae lang
's I hae kent him: Maister Graham, the schuilmaister."

"Pooh!" said the marquis with a puff. "I'm too old to go to school."

"I dinna ken the man 'at isna a bairn till him, my lord."

"In Greek and Latin?"

"I' richteousness an' trouth, my lord; in what's been an' what is
to be."

"What! has he the second sicht, like the piper?"

"He has the second sicht, my lord--but ane 'at gangs a sicht
farther than my auld daddy's."

"He could tell me then what's going to become of me?'

"As weel 's ony man, my lord."

"That 's not saying much, I fear."

"Maybe mair nor ye think, my lord."

"Well, take him my compliments, and tell him I should like to see
him," said the marquis, after a pause.

"He 'll come direckly, my lord."

"Of course he will!" said the marquis.

"Jist as readily, my lord, as he wad gang to ony tramp 'at sent
for 'im at sic a time," returned Malcolm, who did not relish either
the remark or its tone.

"What do you mean by that? You don't think it such a serious affair
--do you?"

"My lord, ye haena a chance."

The marquis was dumb. He had actually begun once more to buoy
himself up with earthly hopes.

Dreading a recall of his commission, Malcolm slipped from the room,
sent Mrs Courthope to take his place, and sped to the schoolmaster.
The moment Mr Graham heard the marquis's message, he rose without
a word, and led the way from the cottage. Hardly a sentence passed
between them as they went, for they were on a solemn errand.

"Mr Graham 's here, my lord," said Malcolm.

"Where? Not in the room?" returned the marquis.

"Waitin' at the door, my lord."

"Bah! You needn't have been so ready. Have you told the sexton to
get a new spade? But you may let him in. And leave him alone with
me."

Mr Graham walked gently up to the bedside.

"Sit down, sir," said the marquis courteously--pleased with the
calm, self possessed, unobtrusive bearing of the man. "They tell
me I 'm dying, Mr Graham."

"I 'm sorry it seems to trouble you, my lord."

"What! wouldn't it trouble you then?"

"I don't think so, my lord."

"Ah! you're one of the elect, no doubt?"

"That's a thing I never did think about, my lord."

"What do you think about then?"

"About God."

"And when you die you 'll go straight to heaven of course--"

"I don't know, my lord. That 's another thing I never trouble my
head about."

"Ah! you 're like me then! I don't care much about going to heaven!
What do you care about?"

"The will of God. I hope your lordship will say the same."

"No I won't. I want my own will."

"Well, that is to be had, my lord."

"How?"

"By taking his for yours, as the better of the two, which it must
be every way."

"That's all moonshine."

"It is light, my lord."

"Well, I don't mind confessing, if I am to die, I should prefer
heaven to the other place; but I trust I have no chance of either.
Do you now honestly believe there are two such places?"

"I don't know, my lord."

"You don't know! And you come here to comfort a dying man!"

"Your lordship must first tell me what you mean by 'two such places.'
And as to comfort, going by my notions, I cannot tell which you
would be more or less comfortable in; and that, I presume, would
be the main point with your lordship."

"And what, pray, sir, would be the main point with you?"

"To get nearer to God."

"Well--I can't say I want to get nearer to God. It 's little he
's ever done for me."

"It's a good deal he has tried to do for you, my lord."

"Well, who interfered? Who stood in his way, then?"

"Yourself, my lord."

"I wasn't aware of it. When did he ever try to do anything for me,
and I stood in his way?"

"When he gave you one of the loveliest of women, my lord," said Mr
Graham, with solemn, faltering voice, "and you left her to die in
neglect, and the child to be brought up by strangers."

The marquis gave a cry. The unexpected answer had roused the slowly
gnawing death, and made it bite deeper.

"What have you to do," he almost screamed, "with my affairs? It
was for me to introduce what I chose of them. You presume."

"Pardon me, my lord: you led me to what I was bound to say. Shall
I leave you, my lord?"

The marquis made no answer.

"God knows I loved her," he said after a while, with a sigh.

"You loved her, my lord!"

"I did, by God!"

"Love a woman like that, and come to this?"

"Come to this! We must all come to this, I fancy, sooner or later.
Come to what, in the name of Beelzebub?"

"That, having loved a woman like her, you are content to lose her.
In the name of God, have you no desire to see her again?"

"It would be an awkward meeting," said the marquis. His was an old
love, alas! He had not been capable of the sort that defies change.
It had faded from him until it seemed one of the things that are
not! Although his being had once glowed in its light, he could now
speak of a meeting as awkward!

"Because you wronged her?" suggested the schoolmaster.

"Because they lied to me, by God!"

"Which they dared not have done, had you not lied to them first."

"Sir!" shouted the marquis, with all the voice he had left. "O God,
have mercy! I cannot punish the scoundrel."

"The scoundrel is the man who lies, my lord."

"Were I anywhere else--"

"There would be no good in telling you the truth, my lord. You
showed her to the world as a woman over whom you had prevailed,
and not as the honest wife she was. What kind of a lie was that,
my lord? Not a white one, surely?"

"You are a damned coward to speak so to a man who cannot even turn
on his side to curse you for a base hound. You would not dare it
but that you know I cannot defend myself."

"You are right, my lord; your conduct is indefensible."

"By heaven! if I could but get this cursed leg under me, I would
throw you out of the window."

"I shall go by the door, my lord. While you hold by your sins, your
sins will hold by you. If you should want me again, I shall be at
your lordship's command."

He rose and left the room, but had not reached his cottage before
Malcolm overtook him, with a second message from his master. He
turned at once, saying only, "I expected it."

"Mr Graham," said the marquis, looking ghastly, "you must have
patience with a dying man. I was very rude to you, but I was in
horrible pain."

"Don't mention it, my lord. It would be a poor friendship that gave
way for a rough word."

"How can you call yourself my friend?"

"I should be your friend, my lord, if it were only for your wife's
sake. She died loving you. I want to send you to her, my lord. You
will allow that, as a gentleman, you at least owe her an apology."

"By Jove, you are right, sir! Then you really and positively believe
in the place they call heaven?"

"My lord, I believe that those who open their hearts to the truth,
shall see the light on their friends' faces again, and be able to
set right what was wrong between them."

"It's a week too late to talk of setting right!"

"Go and tell her you are sorry, my lord,--that will be enough to
her."

"Ah! but there's more than her concerned."

"You are right, my lord. There is another--one who cannot
be satisfied that the fairest works of his hands, or rather the
loveliest children of his heart, should be treated as you have
treated women."

"But the Deity you talk of--"

"I beg your pardon, my lord: I talked of no deity; I talked of
a living Love that gave us birth and calls us his children. Your
deity I know nothing of."

"Call him what you please: he won't be put off so easily!"

"He won't be put off one jot or one tittle. He will forgive anything,
but he will pass nothing. Will your wife forgive you?"

"She will--when I explain."

"Then why should you think the forgiveness of God, which created
her forgiveness, should be less?"

Whether the marquis could grasp the reasoning, may be doubtful.

"Do you really suppose God cares whether a man comes to good or
ill?"

"If he did not, he could not be good himself."

"Then you don't think a good God would care to punish poor wretches
like us?"

"Your lordship has not been in the habit of regarding himself as
a poor wretch. And, remember, you can't call a child a poor wretch
without insulting the father of it."

"That's quite another thing."

"But on the wrong side for your argument--seeing the relation
between God and the poorest creature is infinitely closer than that
between any father and his child."

"Then he can't be so hard on him as the parsons say."

"He will give him absolute justice, which is the only good thing.
He will spare nothing to bring his children back to himself--
their sole well being. What would you do, my lord, if you saw your
son strike a woman?"

"Knock him down and horsewhip him."

It was Mr Graham who broke the silence that followed.

"Are you satisfied with yourself, my lord?"

"No, by God!"

"You would like to be better?"

"I would."

"Then you are of the same mind with God."

"Yes but I'm not a fool! It won't do to say I should like to be:
I must be it, and that's not so easy. It's damned hard to be good.
I would have a fight for it, but there's no time. How is a poor
devil to get out of such an infernal scrape?"

"Keep the commandments."

"That's it, of course; but there's no time, I tell you--at least
so those cursed doctors will keep telling me."

"If there were but time to draw another breath, there would be time
to begin."

"How am I to begin? Which am I to begin with?"

"There is one commandment which includes all the rest."

"Which is that?"

"To believe on the Lord Jesus Christ."

"That's cant."

"After thirty years' trial of it, it is to me the essence of
wisdom. It has given me a peace which makes life or death all but
indifferent to me, though I would choose the latter."

"What am I to believe about him then?"

"You are to believe in him, not about him."

"I don't understand."

"He is our Lord and Master, Elder Brother, King, Saviour, the
divine Man, the human God: to believe in him is to give ourselves
up to him in obedience, to search out his will and do it."

"But there's no time, I tell you again," the marquis almost shrieked.

"And I tell you, there is all eternity to do it in. Take him for
your master, and he will demand nothing of you which you are not able
to perform. This is the open door to bliss. With your last breath
you can cry to him, and he will hear you, as he heard the thief
on the cross who cried to him dying beside him. 'Lord, remember me
when thou comest into thy kingdom.' 'Today shalt thou be with me
in paradise.' It makes my heart swell to think of it, my lord! No
cross questioning of the poor fellow! No preaching to him! He just
took him with him where he was going, to make a man of him."

"Well, you know something of my history: what would you have me do
now? At once, I mean. What would the person you speak of have me
do?"

"That is not for me to say, my lord."

"You could give me a hint."

"No. God is telling you himself. For me to presume to tell you,
would be to interfere with him. What he would have a man do, he
lets him know in his mind."

"But what if I had not made up my mind before the last came?"

"Then I fear he would say to you--'Depart from me, thou worker
of iniquity.'"

"That would be hard when another minute might have done it."

"If another minute would have done it, you would have had it."

A paroxysm of pain followed, during which Mr Graham silently left
him.



CHAPTER LXX: END OR BEGINNING?


When the fit was over, and he found Mr Graham was gone, he asked
Malcolm, who had resumed his watch, how long it would take Lady
Florimel to come from Edinburgh.

"Mr Crathie left wi' fower horses frae the Lossie Airms last nicht,
my lord," said Malcolm; "but the ro'ds are ill, an' she winna be
here afore sometime the morn."

The marquis stared aghast: they had sent for her without his orders.

"What shall I do?" he murmured. "If once I look in her eyes, I
shall be damned. Malcolm!"

"Yes, my lord!"

"Is there a lawyer in Portlossie?"

"Yes, my lord; there 's auld Maister Carmichael."

"He won't do! He was my brother's rascal. Is there no one besides?"

"No in Portlossie, my lord. There can be nane nearer than Duff
Harbour, I doobt."

"Take the chariot and bring him here directly. Tell them to put
four horses to. Stokes can ride one."

"I'll ride the ither, my lord."

"You'll do nothing of the kind: you're not used to the pole."

"I can tak the leader, my lord."

"I tell you you're to do nothing of the kind!" cried the marquis
angrily. "You're to ride inside, and bring Mr--what's his name?
back with you."

"Soutar, my lord, gien ye please."

"Be off, then. Don't wait to feed. The brutes have been eating all
day, and they can eat all night. You must have him here in an hour."

In an hour and a quarter, Miss Horn's friend stood by the marquis's
bedside. Malcolm was dismissed, but was presently summoned again
to receive more orders.

Fresh horses were put to the chariot, and he had to set out once
more--this time to fetch a justice of the peace, a neighbour
laird. The distance was greater than to Duff Harbour; the roads
were worse; the north wind, rising as they went, blew against them
as they returned, increasing to a violent gale; and it was late
before they reached Lossie House.

When Malcolm entered, he found the marquis alone.

"Is Morrison here at last?" he cried in a feeble, irritated voice.

"Yes, my lord."

"What the devil kept you so long? The bay mare would have carried
me there and back in an hour and a half."

"The roads war verra heavy, my lord. An' jist hear till the win'!"

The marquis listened a moment, and a frightened expression grew
over his thin, pale, anxious face.

"You don't know what depends on it," he said, "or you would have
driven better. Where is Mr Soutar?"

"I dinna ken, my lord. I'm only jist come, an' I've seen naebody."

"Go and tell Mrs Courthope I want Soutar. You'll find her crying
somewhere--the old chicken! because I swore at her. What harm
could that do the old goose?"

"It'll be mair for love o' yer lordship than fricht at the sweirin',
my lord."

"You think so? Why should she care? Go and tell her I'm sorry.
But really she ought to be used to me by this time! Tell her to
send Soutar directly."

Mr Soutar was not to be found, the fact being that he had gone to
see Miss Horn. The marquis flew into an awful rage, and began to
curse and swear frightfully.

"My lord! my lord!" said Malcolm, "for God's sake, dinna gang on
that gait. He canna like to hear that kin' o' speech--an' frae
ane o' his ain tu!"

The marquis stopped, aghast at his presumption, and choking with
rage; but Malcolm's eyes filled with tears, and instead of breaking
out again, his master turned his head away and was silent.

Mr Soutar came.

"Fetch Morrison," said the marquis, "and go to bed."

The wind howled terribly as Malcolm ascended the stairs and half
felt his way, for he had no candle, through the long passages leading
to his room. As he entered the last, a huge vague form came down
upon him, like a deeper darkness through the dark. Instinctively
he stepped aside. It passed noiselessly, with a long stride, and
not even a rustle of its garments--at least Malcolm heard nothing
but the roar of the wind. He turned and followed it. On and on
it went, down the stair through a corridor, down the great stone
turnpike stair, and through passage after passage. When it came into
the more frequented and half lighted thoroughfares of the house,
it showed as a large figure in a long cloak, indistinct in outline.

It turned a corner close by the marquis's room. But when Malcolm,
close at its heels, turned also, he saw nothing but a vacant lobby,
the doors around which were all shut. One after another he quickly
opened them, all except the marquis's, but nothing was to be seen.
The conclusion was that it had entered the marquis's room. He must
not disturb the conclave in the sick chamber with what might be
but "a false creation, proceeding from the heat oppressed brain,"
and turned back to his own room, where he threw himself on his bed
and fell asleep.

About twelve Mrs Courthope called him: his master was worse, and
wanted to see him.

The midnight was still, for the dark and wind had ceased. But a
hush and a cloud seemed gathering in the stillness and darkness,
and with them came the sense of a solemn celebration, as if the
gloom were canopy as well as pall--black, but bordered and hearted
with purple and gold; and the stillness seemed to tremble as with
the inaudible tones of a great organ, at the close or commencement
of some mighty symphony.

With beating heart he walked softly towards the room where, as on
an altar, lay the vanishing form of his master, like the fuel in
whose dying flame was offered the late and ill nurtured sacrifice
of his spirit.

As he went through the last corridor leading thither, Mrs Catanach,
type and embodiment of the horrors that haunt the dignity of death,
came walking towards him like one at home, her great round body
lightly upborne on her soft foot. It was no time to challenge her
presence, and yielding her the half of the narrow way, he passed
without a greeting. She dropped him a courtesy with an uplook and
again a vailing of her wicked eyes.

The marquis would not have the doctor come near him, and when Malcolm
entered there was no one in the room but Mrs Courthope. The shadow
had crept far along the dial. His face had grown ghastly, the
skin had sunk to the bones, and his eyes stood out as if from much
staring into the dark. They rested very mournfully on Malcolm for
a few moments, and then closed softly.

"Is she come yet?" he murmured, opening them wide, with sudden
stare.

"No, my lord." The lids fell again, softly, slowly. "Be good to
her, Malcolm," he murmured.

"I wull, my lord," said Malcolm solemnly.

Then the eyes opened and looked at him; something grew in them--
a light as of love, and drew up after it a tear; but the lips said
nothing. The eyelids fell again, and in a minute more, Malcolm knew
by his breathing that he slept.

The slow night waned. He woke sometimes, but soon dozed off again.
The two watched by him till the dawn. It brought a still grey
morning, without a breath of wind, and warm for the season. The
marquis appeared a little revived, but was hardly able to speak.
Mostly by signs he made Malcolm understand that he wanted Mr Graham,
but that some one else must go for him. Mrs Courthope went!

As soon as she was out of the room, he lifted his hand with effort,
laid feeble hold on Malcolm's jacket, and drawing him down, kissed
him on the forehead. Malcolm burst into tears, and sank weeping by
the bedside.

Mr Graham entering a little after, and seeing Malcolm on his knees,
knelt also, and broke into a prayer.

"O blessed Father!" he said, "who knowest this thing, so strange
to us, which we call death, breathe more life into the heart of
thy dying son, that in the power of life he may front death. O Lord
Christ, who diedst thyself, and in thyself knowest it all, heal
this man in his sore need--heal him with strength to die."

Came a faint Amen from the marquis.

"Thou didst send him into the world: help him out of it. O God,
we belong to thee utterly. We dying men are thy children, O living
Father! Thou art such a father, that thou takest our sins from us
and throwest them behind thy back. Thou cleanest our souls, as thy
Son did wash our feet. We hold our hearts up to thee: make them
what they must be, O Love, O Life of men, O Heart of hearts! Give
thy dying child courage, and hope, and peace--the peace of him
who overcame all the terrors of humanity, even death itself, and
liveth for evermore, sitting at thy right hand, our God brother,
blessed to all ages--amen."

"Amen!" murmured the marquis, and slowly lifting his hand from the
coverlid, he laid it on the head of Malcolm, who did not know it
was the hand of his father, blessing him ere he died.

"Be good to her," said the marquis once more. But Malcolm could not
answer for weeping, and the marquis was not satisfied. Gathering
all his force he said again, "Be good to her."

"I wull, I wull," burst from Malcolm in sobs, and he wailed aloud.

The day wore on, and the afternoon came. Still Lady Florimel had
not arrived, and still the marquis lingered.

As the gloom of the twilight was deepening into the early darkness
of the winter night, he opened wide his eyes, and was evidently
listening. Malcolm could hear nothing; but the light in his master's
face grew, and the strain of his listening diminished. At length
Malcolm became aware of the sound of wheels, which came rapidly
nearer, till at last the carriage swung up to the hall door. A
moment, and Lady Florimel was flitting across the room.

"Papa! papa!" she cried, and, throwing her arm over him, laid her
cheek to his.

The marquis could not return her embrace; he could only receive
her into the depths of his shining tearful eyes.

"Flory!" he murmured, "I'm going away. I'm going--I've got--to
make an--apology. Malcolm, be good--"

The sentence remained unfinished. The light paled from his countenance
--he had to carry it with him. He was dead.

Lady Florimel gave a loud cry. Mrs Courthope ran to her assistance.

"My lady's in a dead faint!" she whispered, and left the room to
get help.

Malcolm lifted Lady Florimel in his great arms, and bore her tenderly
to her own apartment. There he left her to the care of her women,
and returned to the chamber of death.

Meantime Mr Graham and Mr Soutar had come. When Malcolm re-entered,
the schoolmaster took him kindly by the arm and said:

"Malcolm, there can be neither place nor moment fitter for the
solemn communication I am commissioned to make to you: I have, as
in the presence of your dead father, to inform you that you are
now Marquis of Lossie; and God forbid you should be less worthy as
marquis than you have been as fisherman!"

Malcolm stood stupefied. For a while he seemed to himself to be
turning over in his mind something he had heard read from a book,
with a nebulous notion of being somehow concerned in it. The thought
of his father cleared his brain. He ran to the dead body, kissed
its lips, as he had once kissed the forehead of another, and falling
on his knees, wept, he knew not for what. Presently, however, he
recovered himself, rose, and, rejoining the two men, said "Gentlemen,
hoo mony kens this turn o' things?"

"None but Mr Morrison, Mrs Catanach, and ourselves--so far as I
know," answered Mr Soutar.

"And Miss Horn," added Mr Graham. "She first brought out the truth
of it, and ought to be the first to know of your recognition by
your father."

"I s' tell her mysel'," returned Malcolm. "But, gentlemen, I beg
o' ye, till I ken what I 'm aboot an' gie ye leave, dinna open yer
moo' to leevin' cratur' aboot this. There's time eneuch for the
warl' to ken 't."

"Your lordship commands me," said Mr Soutar.

"Yes, Malcolm,--until you give me leave," said Mr Graham.

"Whaur 's Mr Morrison?" asked Malcolm.

"He is still in the house," said Mr Soutar.

"Gang till him, sir, an' gar him promise, on the word o' a gentleman,
to haud his tongue. I canna bide to hae 't blaret a' gait an' a'
at ance. For Mistress Catanach, I s' deal wi' her mysel'."

The door opened, and, in all the conscious dignity conferred by
the immunities and prerogatives of her calling, Mrs Catanach walked
into the room.

"A word wi' ye, Mistress Catanach," said Malcolm.

"Certainly, my lord," answered the howdy, with mingled presumption
and respect, and followed him to the dining room.

"Weel, my lord," she began, before he had turned from shutting the
door behind them, in the tone and with the air, or rather airs, of
having conferred a great benefit, and expecting its recognition.

"Mistress Catanach," interrupted Malcolm, turning and facing her,
"gien I be un'er ony obligation to you, it 's frae anither tongue
I maun hear 't. But I hae an offer to mak ye: Sae lang as it disna
come oot 'at I 'm onything better nor a fisherman born, ye s' hae
yer twinty poun' i' the year, peyed ye quarterly. But the moment
fowk says wha I am, ye touch na a poun' note mair, an' I coont
mysel' free to pursue onything I can pruv agane ye."

Mrs Catanach attempted a laugh of scorn, but her face was grey as
putty, and its muscles declined response.

"Ay or no," said Malcolm. "I winna gar ye sweir, for I wad lippen
to yer aith no a hair."

"Ay, my lord," said the howdy, reassuming at least outward composure,
and with it her natural brass, for as she spoke she held out her
open palm.

"Na, na!" said Malcolm, "nae forehan payments! Three months o'
tongue haudin', an' there 's yer five poun'; an' Maister Soutar o'
Duff Harbour 'ill pay 't intill yer ain han'. But brak troth wi'
me, an' ye s' hear o' 't; for gien ye war hangt, the warl' wad be
but the cleaner. Noo quit the hoose, an' never lat me see ye aboot
the place again. But afore ye gang, I gie ye fair warnin' 'at I
mean to win at a' yer byganes."

The blood of red wrath was seething in Mrs Catanach's face; she drew
herself up, and stood flaming before him, on the verge of explosion.

"Gang frae the hoose," said Malcolm, "or I'll set the muckle hun'
to shaw ye the gait."

Her face turned the colour of ashes, and with hanging cheeks and
scared but not the less wicked eyes, she turned from the room.
Malcolm watched her out of the house, then following her into the
town, brought Miss Horn back with him to aid in the last of earthly
services, and hastened to Duncan's cottage.

But to his amazement and distress, it was forsaken, and the hearth
cold. In his attendance on his father, he had not seen the piper
--he could not remember for how many days; and on inquiry he found
that, although he had not been missed, no one could recall having
seen him later than three or four days agone. The last he could
hear of him in the neighbourhood was, that, about a week before,
a boy had spied him sitting on a rock in the Baillies' Barn, with
his pipes in his lap. Searching the cottage, he found that his
broadsword and dirk, with all his poor finery, were gone.

That same night Mrs Catanach also disappeared.

A week after, what was left of Lord Lossie was buried. Malcolm
followed the hearse with the household. Miss Horn walked immediately
behind him, on the arm of the schoolmaster. It was a great funeral,
with a short road, for the body was laid in the church--close to
the wall, just under the crusader with the Norman canopy.

Lady Florimel wept incessantly for three days; on the fourth she
looked out on the sea and thought it very dreary; on the fifth she
found a certain gratification in hearing herself called the marchioness;
on the sixth she tried on her mourning, and was pleased; on the
seventh she went with the funeral and wept again; on the eighth
came Lady Bellair, who on the ninth carried her away.

To Malcolm she had not spoken once.

Mr Graham left Portlossie.

Miss Horn took to her bed for a week.

Mr Crathie removed his office to the House itself, took upon him
the function of steward as well as factor, had the state rooms
dismantled, and was master of the place.

Malcolm helped Stoat with the horses, and did odd jobs for Mr Crathie.
From his likeness to the old marquis, as he was still called, the
factor had a favour for him, firmly believing the said marquis to
be his father, and Mrs Stewart his mother. Hence he allowed him a
key to the library, of which Malcolm made good use.

The story of Malcolm's plans and what came of them, requires another
book.

THE END.






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Malcolm, by George MacDonald





This eBook was produced by David Schwan <davidsch@earthlink.net>.



Their Mariposa Legend

A Romance of Santa Catalina



By Charlotte Herr




To Little Bruce Parker
Who Loved Stories



Part I



Sir Francis Starts It



It began to happen a long time ago, centuries ago, when, in a fragrant
rush of rain, spring came one day to Punagwandah, fairest of the Channel
Islands. Beneath the golden mists of sunrise danced a radiant sea. On
steeply sloping hillsides where thickets of wild lilac bloomed, the lark
shook from his tiny throat a tumult of glad music. In shadowed niches of
the canyons lilies waited to fill with light their gleaming ivory cups.
Spring in very truth was there.

And looking down upon it from her cavern bower high above the beach,
watched the Princess Wildenai. Kneeling there, the light of dawn shining
on her long black hair, she was, herself, the sweetest blossom of the
spring. Loveliest was she among all the maidens of the Mariposa and of
royal blood besides; although of this the great chief Torquam, who even
at that moment lay sleeping in his lodge of deerskin on the crescent
beach below, knew more than he had ever told.

With eyes rapt, her breath scarcely stirring the folds of softest
fawnskin drawn across her breast, the princess bent her gaze to where
the waves ran silver on the ocean's distant rim. There she knew the sun
must rise and, as the first dazzling ray sparkled across the water, she
rose slowly until she stood erect, a slender, graceful figure against
the dim, gray rocks, and stretching her arms toward the East, spoke in
the musical words of her people.

"Oh, Waken-ate, great spirit-father," she pleaded, "have mercy on me.
Grant to me, thy humble daughter, one only boon. Grant, I pray thee,
that it need not be I wed with Torquam's friend, the pale-face stranger.
Well knowest thou I would not disobey my father, him the bravest and
most powerful of all thy warriors, him whom his people delight to honor,
and whom I strive to please. All the more I feel my duty since, many
moons ago, they laid my mother underneath the flowers. Yet, even so, I
cannot find it in my heart to wed with Don Cabrillo, dearly as does my
father wish it. Can'st thou not then, in thy great power, turn his
heart, oh lord of spirits, that he no longer may desire it? Help me in
this, my only trial, I pray thee, and in all else will I be indeed his
loyal daughter, - in all else save alone in this one thing!"

Her arms fell. Slowly she sank again to her knees, bending her head
until her forehead touched the ground. For many minutes she lay thus
prostrate while the glory of the rising sun bathed the sea in splendor.
Yet, when at last she rose, her eyes were dim with tears.

But now from the beach below there drifted up to her the sounds of a
village astir. Shrill voices of women mingled with the crackling of
freshly kindled fires. A canoe, pushed hastily into the water, grated
harshly on the pebbles. Still the maiden did not stir. Leaning against
the rocky ledge, her chin in her hands, she gazed listlessly out over
the shining sea. If any interests lived for her among the dark-skinned
people beneath the cliffs, for the moment at least she gave no sign.

Then, suddenly, above the ordinary din of the Indian village, rose the
hoarse shouting of men. Wildenai lifted her eyes, - eyes that widened
first with wonder, then with fear. For there, far down the shoreline to
the south, her sails gleaming white against the walls of rock behind her
as she rounded a distant point, a ship came slowly into view. With
wildly beating heart the young girl watched the vessel tack to clear the
long curve of the coast. But once before in all her life had she seen
such another monster winged canoe, and that had been when Senor Don
Cabrillo first cast anchor in the Bay of Moons below, now almost a year
ago. For many a week had the young man lingered, renewing the friendship
with the Mariposa cemented more than eighteen years before when his
father, hindered by storms in his adventurous journey up the coast, cast
anchor off the shore, - the first white man to see their island. Nor was
the lingering without result. Torquam he taught to speak the Spanish
tongue, learning in his turn safer and easier routes to the gold fields
of the north, while not the least among the treasures carried with him
when at last he sailed away did he hold the promise that the beautiful
daughter of the chief should become his bride when next he touched upon
that shore. Could this, then, be the Spaniard's fleet returning? Was the
Great Spirit powerless, after all, to save her? In sore bewilderment and
terror Wildenai watched the distant ship.

Nearer and nearer it came. But, as its outline grew each moment more
distinct, gradually her fears departed. For this was not the clumsy
Spanish galleon she remembered. The prow was not nearly so high, nor was
the incoming vessel as large in any respect as had been that other. Yet,
though fear died, wonder grew. What new variety of strangers, then, was
about to visit them? For that the ship intended to anchor she was by
this time sure. Steadily it bore on until within a scant half mile of
the crescent shaped beach where lay the royal village of the tribe. At
length, as if in fear to trust themselves closer to the rocky shore, the
crew were seen to bring the vessel sharply about. An anchor was cast
over, the creaking of the hawsers distinctly audible in the clear
morning air, and a few moments later a small boat was lowered. Into this
boat immediately several sailors swung themselves and after a short
delay, amidst the shouting of the Indians, now running in wild
excitement up and down the beach, the men picked up their oars and
started for the land.

"Alla-hoa, Wildenai!"

Up the stony trail leading to her cavern scrambled an Indian runner, a
lithe youth who flung himself breathless at her feet.

"Thy father, oh princess, sends me to summon thee to his lodge.
Strangers, - paleface strangers, - enemies, who can tell, are coming.
See, - the ship!" With dark forefinger he pointed toward the sea.
"Torquam would have thee hide with the rest of the women in the cave at
the Great Rock. There Kathah-galwa wilt keep thee safe, he says. Make
haste, oh Wildenai!"

"And am I not as safe up here?" returned the princess, calmly. "Be not
so lost in thy terror, oh Norqua. I, too, have seen the ship and I fear
not. Yet will I obey if so my father bids," she added quickly. "Go thou
ahead. I follow." And hastily gathering together some reeds and colored
grasses lying on the ledge, parts of an unfinished basket upon which,
evidently, she had during some previous visit been at work, she flung
them into a corner of the cavern and ran lightly down the narrow path
leading to the village.

Here all by this time was tense excitement, the dramatic, ungoverned
excitement of children. While with shrill cries two or three of the
women gathered the little ones together, the rest pulled frantically at
the poles holding each tepee in place. Still apparently quite unmoved,
Wildenai sought first her father standing surprised but unafraid in the
doorway of his lodge. Tall and spare and stern he looked, straight as
some lonely pine on the slopes of distant San Jacinto. Yet even in the
stress of such a moment a tender light stole into his eyes as they
rested upon his motherless daughter.

Wildenai made obeisance and for a brief moment the two surveyed each
other in silence. Then,

"It is well thou art come, my beloved one," spoke the chief. "Stranger
pale-faces will soon be amongst us."

"Wildenai feels no fear, my father," quietly answered the girl.

"If they come in friendship," quickly Torquam replied, "then indeed may
all be well. But the ship is not of the Senor's fleet, and if so be that
we must fight, thou wert better hidden in the cave. We shall see."

Bending her head in mute acquiescence the girl moved away to join the
group of women now almost ready to depart.



Meantime the vessel's long boat, driven onward by the stout arms of
three strong sailors, steadily approached the bay.

"What think'st thou then, Rufus Broadmead, of this fool's errand to the
savages?" inquired one of these, resting upon his oars for a moment that
he might the better listen to the tumult on the shore. "Wot ye not that
if water had been the only boon he craves the captain had fared much
better on the mainland? Besides, did not I myself overhear the Apache
only yesterday tell him of a certainty that the tribes over there were
away on the warpath? But no, by the mass, here must we risk our precious
scalps to row into the very teeth of the heathen, and that to humor the
whim of as obstinate an Englishman as ever sailed aboard Her Majesty's
fleets!" and without awaiting any reply he lowered his oars in disgust.

The others laughed.

"Hast been, then, so stupid, brother Giles, for all thy listening with
thy big ears, as not to know 'tis Spanish treasure ever and naught else
our captain seeks? Water, - pouf!" the speaker made a rough grimace,
"water may well serve as an excuse, and what to bold Sir Francis were
the lives of half a dozen seamen when booty for the queen lies in the
balance? The Apache told him, too, - thou see'st thou hast not played
the listening game alone, for, hiding behind the fo'castle door myself,
I heard him say it, - that here lay that famous island, San - how is't
they call it? San Catlina - I know not how 'tis spoken, - some Spanish
lingo not fit for English tongues! At any rate 'twas here your Spanish
robber, Don Cabrillo, and, for the matter of that, his precious son as
well, stopped to seek direction ere they found the land of gold. The
savage sware besides they were a gentle tribe, not given to war and
murder like the rest. I hearkened well, forsooth, knowing past doubt I
would be een one o' those chosen to try 'em out. The devil take the
Apache an he lied," he added fiercely, "I'll break his head across till
even he shrieks out for help when I get back!"

He paused to gaze fearfully at the stern cliffs now looming close at
hand, beneath which the excited natives still ran back and forth,
pointing with frantic gestures at the boat.

The third man spoke. He was smaller than the other two and darker, with
a sly look about his eyes and mouth in strong contrast to the bluff
frankness of his comrades. So far he had appeared content to listen in
amused silence, but now with a short laugh he interrupted.

"The Apache did not lie. This is the island Santa Catalina, though that,
mark you, is not the Indian name. And right well can the chief who rules
here direct our captain also to the goldfields of the north. But
hearkee, comrades. 'Tis not Drake will reap the profits this time!" He
lowered his voice mysteriously as though fearful of being overheard,
albeit nothing was nearer than his two companions and the clear, green
stretch of water. "Have ye not observed the boy who travels with the
captain? - the boy I serve, - the one they call Sir Harry? To my mind,
cub though he be, 'tis he who rules the ship. Hast never noticed how the
great Drake himself bends to his slightest wish?"

"Aye, marry, that have I! And who, then, is he, think'st thou?" inquired
the man who had spoken first.

"Some close kin to the queen, - that much I know," the other answered
quickly, "the heir to some great dukedom, mayhap, in disguise to see the
world and make a fortune. 'Tis his desire we land, so much he told me,
and 'tis to learn more than directions, my hearties, and that I'll
warrant ye! But, look ye, the water grows too shallow! We can use the
oars no longer."

And even as he spoke the boat grated upon the pebbles. An incoming
breaker would have carried it ashore, but before the sailors could take
advantage of this help or even so much as ship their oars, half a dozen
swarthy youths had waded out and, with shouts and gestures, whether of
welcome or hostility the Englishmen had no means of knowing, pushed it
high upon the beach. At once, then, for well they realized the danger of
delay, and with a stolid courage born of many a like adventure, the
seamen leaped fearlessly out upon the sand. In their hands they held
aloft bolts of brightly colored cloth snatched on the instant from the
bottom of the boat. These they offered for the wondering inspection of
the women who, observing the small number of invaders, were cautiously
returning. To the warriors grouped about the chief they proffered knives
of which the steel blades, set in strong handles of bone, glistened in
the sun. Eagerly, yet with a certain unexpected formality, the men
accepted these, passing them for examination from one to another with
many a grunt of satisfaction. To be sure, no brave among them but might
the next moment decide to try out the merits of his gift upon the
bestower, but this danger the adventurers had to risk. More timidly the
women, their eyes fixed wistfully upon the gaudy red and yellow cloth,
approached the strangers, offering in their turn bits of abalone shell
polished to iridescent beauty.

They seemed in truth a gentle, friendly people, so much so that at
length the sailors, deeming it safe to undertake the second part of
their errand, began to plead for water and to request, besides, an
interview between their captain and the chief. All this by means of
signs in which they displayed no little wit and skill, the Englishmen
accomplished until, well on toward the middle of the morning, they made
ready to return to the ship, the casks they had brought brimming with
sweet mountain water, while with them they bore as well the promise of
an interview of state between the great chief Torquam and Sir Francis
Drake, to take place upon the beach at sunset.

And then at once the little village of Toyobet seethed again with
excitement. For these good paleface friends and their god-like commander
a fitting welcome must be prepared. Fleet-footed messengers, bearing
flaming torches, sped in hot haste along the mountain trails that all
who saw might know without words spoken of the assembling of the tribe.
To the distant village at the isthmus they hurried, and to the cove on
the western coast, some twenty miles away, to which a band of warriors
had gone several days before to hunt the otter. That no one among his
people might remain in ignorance of his command, Torquam even caused
signal fires to be kindled on each of the twin peaks, extinct volcanoes,
near the center of the island. Smoke rising there was visible from every
corner of his land, and woe to any subject who dared to disregard that
warning!

Throughout the long bright day the women toiled, preparing a ceremonial
feast. Three antelope, a deer, and half a dozen of the wild sheep which
roamed the hills were killed and placed for roasting over deep pits dug
in the sand. Nor did any member of the tribe forget in his own crude
fashion to deck himself for the occasion. The warriors adorned their
heads with feathers and daubed their cheeks and lips with ochre. The
women clothed themselves in loose-hanging tunics of doeskin girt with
strings of wampum, and hung about their tawny shoulders the lovely
greens and blues of uncut turquoise. Meanwhile, also, the great chief
Torquam donned his ceremonial dress, a string of eagle feathers held by
the crimsoned quills of the porcupine and extending down his back until
almost it touched the ground. About his neck, as token of his
priesthood, he threw the bear-claw necklace, known far and wide among
the tribes for its famous powers of healing. Wildenai alone made no
change except to bind the satin black of her hair still more smoothly
within a fillet of silver. In the center of the band, so that it rested
just above her brow, a strange device appeared, a circle enclosing many
rays, - the royal insignia of the tribe which only the daughter of the
chief might wear.



Then at last when, in the sunset, level rays of light rested golden on
the bay and turned to amethyst the distant mountains on the mainland,
all was ready. Once again, this time to the weird music of tom-toms and
the beating of drums, a boat was lowered from the ship while on the
shore the Indians watched.

It was in truth a picture not soon to be forgotten. Behind the mirrored
Bay of Moons, its crescent of sand gleaming white against the rocks, the
bands of dusky men and women stood motionless as statues in the quiet
light of the setting sun, while in the doorway of his lodge, his
daughter close beside him, Torquam waited with simple dignity to receive
his guests, the fair-skinned strangers.

At length along the beach advanced the little group of English, friends
and fellow adventurers with the most renowned of all their great queen's
buccaneers. Beside Sir Francis himself marched young Harold of Wessex,
little more than a boy in years, yet dreaded and feared in his own land
even then - a possible heir to Elizabeth's throne. Some short distance
in front of these two, standard bearers carried the flags of Merry
England, each glorious with fringes and tassels of gold. Well might such
banners dazzle the eyes and wits of simple savages.

Yet, possibly, for all that, had it not been for the lengthy ceremonial
of the peace-pipe, Wildenai could not have taken time to observe so
closely, in stolen glances from beneath her long black lashes, the
splendor of the young noble standing proudly erect beside his captain;
nor could he have stared so often, with no attempt to hide his
admiration, at the dark beauty of the princess.

Perhaps, too, if fate had not contrived to place them side by side at
the feast which followed, young Harold might never have discovered that
an Indian girl, however beautiful, possessed the wit to learn a foreign
language. Yet it was certainly Spanish and that well spoken in which, at
length, she softly asked of her father a question intended obviously for
himself.

Under cover of one of the Indian dances with which, from time to time,
the feast was enlivened, he leaned impulsively toward her.

"Can'st speak the Spanish tongue?" he hastily inquired.

The princess dropped her eyes. For a moment she remained silent as if
debating to what extent such boldness might involve her. Then, with a
glance as shy as if some deer gazed at him startled from the thicket,

"Yes, mon senor," she answered simply. "I learned it when Don Cabrillo
came to Punagwandah many moons ago."

After that it was only that one thing led to another, as was sometimes
true of men and maidens even in the days so long gone by. For, as if by
common consent, then, they drew a little apart from the rest, where,
throwing himself on the sand beside her while the firelight threw
flickering shadows among the rocks, the young man related fragments of
his story, - of the long journey across the sea, something of his home
in England, and of the brilliant court of the great queen wherein he had
served as gentleman-in-waiting. So had he served, yet soon, but here her
guest had suddenly flushed and paused as though he spoke too hastily or
of what he should not. To all of it the princess listened with
fast-beating heart and a desire, ever growing, to make herself a place
in this splendid stranger's world. Was not she then, also, the daughter
of a king? Yet how different and how unimportant beside that wonderful
woman of whom he spoke! For father she boasted the great chief Torquam,
feared by every tribe in the north and rich because of the gold hidden
in many a canyon among the distant mountains; yet her woman's instinct
told her that to this proud Englishman her people were at best little
more than a curiosity, almost, indeed, a cause for laughter.

When at last the feast was finished, Torquam rose, and removing with
slow solemnity his crest of eagle feathers, he placed it upon the head
of Sir Francis, a seal of everlasting friendship. With difficulty young
Harold suppressed a smile. But the older man, as well aware of what the
situation demanded as he was keenly alive to its danger, received the
attention with a gravity fully equal to that of his host. Indeed, he
went still further.

"Most gracious hast thou been, oh Torquam, all wise chief of the
Mariposa," he began in carefully chosen Spanish, "nor shall thy kingly
gift remain unrequited. Listen, oh Torquam! On yonder vessel I carry
steeds like those of which I told you. For a journey over the mountains
of the north we have brought them. One there is, swifter of foot than
all the rest. Him will I cause my men to lower into the boat and bring
to you after our return tonight."

In silence Torquam inclined his head. Nothing could have pleased him
more. He would be the first then, of all his tribe to own one of those
strange yet wondrous creatures never before seen in his world until the
Spanish landed! Yet only the eager gleam in his eyes betrayed his
pleasure. But Harold of Wessex stared at his captain in blank
astonishment, for the gift he had just bestowed with such apparent
carelessness was the most valuable bit of cargo in the ship, a costly
Arabian horse intended for the young noble's own special comfort and
convenience during the search for gold on which they were bound. Was
Drake gone suddenly mad, then, thus to throw away, and that without
permission, his choicest property on a mere savage? Hot with resentment
he was about to interfere; but before he could obey the rash impulse his
better judgment prevailed, and just in time he remembered how, on
several other such occasions, his very life had been saved by some swift
expedient of Drake's and his tact in handling the natives.

Slowly Sir Francis continued, and now one watching intently might have
sensed from the gleam in his eyes that he had reached the real point in
the interview.

"One question, nevertheless, would I ask of all-wise Torquam before we
part." He hesitated, searching the impassive face of the Indian. "Can'st
tell me of a Spaniard, one Cabrillo, son to that arch pirate of Spain,
who, since his father's death, still sails upon these waters? To him I
bear a message," - again he paused while the heart of Wildenai beat in
sudden panic beneath her fawnskin tunic; but Torquam's face remained
blank as a page unwritten, - "a message from our queen," added Drake.
The last words were uttered with significance.

The Indian slowly shook his head.

"The noble white chief asks what is unknown to any man," he answered.
"The young Cabrillo once landed, 'tis true, on Punagwandah. Many moons
ago it was. Where he is now, how should Torquam know?"

In his bitter disappointment the hand of the Englishman sought the hilt
of his sword. Instantly a ring of warriors closed darkly about the
chief.

Drake laughed.

"Nay then, 'tis but by chance I asked thee, thinking thou mightst tell
me. It matters not. The gift I promised thee will come, as I said,
tonight."

He turned to go and young Harold rose to follow. Then, perceiving the
dark eyes of the princess fixed wistfully upon him, he hesitated and,
obeying a sudden impulse, he stepped hastily to her side.

"When they return with the gift for thy father," he whispered, "I will
come with them," he smiled into her soft eyes shining with pleased
surprise, "and I will bring a gift to thee as well, oh Wildenai, fairest
of maidens!"

Drake gave a sharp command. His followers sprang to their feet, and
without further ceremony the party passed quickly down the beach to
their boat.

But the princess Wildenai did not leave the feasting ground. Hidden by
deepening shadows she watched the ship's lights glimmer across the
water. Glad indeed was she of the darkness, for a warm flush glowed in
her cheeks and her heart throbbed with a strange new pleasure, a
pleasure bordering close on fear, yet wholly sweet.

But when, at length, the quiet of sleep had descended upon the village,
once again she sought her father. He, too, within the open doorway of
his lodge, watched intently the distant ship. Without surprise he saw
his daughter enter and, as she knelt upon the blanket beside him, he
stretched a hand and drew her close.

"It grows cold. The wind is rising. 'Twere best to wait inside." He
spoke in the musical Indian tongue. For a moment he stroked her hair in
silence, then -

"What think'st thou by now of the English, Wildenai, my little wild
rose?" he asked.

But the princess seemed not to have heard his question.

"My father," she began after another short silence, "I have a favor to
ask of thee."

"And what may that be, my daughter?" he returned gravely.

But again the young girl made no answer and for many minutes they
watched the tremulous paths of light in the wake of the vessel.

After a time he felt her hand tighten upon his arm.

"It is but the old boon over again, my father." Her voice was low as the
sighing of the wind among the oak trees. "I would be freed from my
promise to wed with Don Cabrillo."

An Indian is not given to caresses. Much more used was Torquam's hand to
wield the war-club or the hatchet. Yet it was with fingers gentle as any
woman's that he stroked the smooth black head at his knee.

"Doubtest thou then, my motherless one, the judgment of him who loves
thee?" he asked.

"I doubt it not, my father," answered his daughter. "Yet would I not wed
with the Spaniard," she added stubbornly.

"The blue-eyed senor from England" - there was a hint of humor in his
tone, - "he it is who steals thy fancy! Is it not so, my Wildenai?"

Then, after a moment: "Right well knowest thou my only wish is to make
thee happy." Again his voice, though gentle, grew serious almost to
sadness. "No mere whim it is that counsels me to wed thee to Cabrillo.
"There is something - " He paused, continuing with effort, - "a reason I
have never told thee why it seems most fitting. Now I will tell thee.
That reason is because, because, my Wildenai, thou art Spanish born
thyself."

The princess drew a hasty breath. In the darkness he felt rather than
saw her startled eyes upon him.

"My father!" The exclamation, filled with pain as well as astonishment,
touched him to the quick. Tenderly he drew her to him. Then briefly, as
was the Indian way, yet with the pictured phrasing which caused each
scene to spring into vivid life before the young girl's eyes, he told
her of the day, already more than eighteen years gone by, when, in the
wake of a long midwinter storm, the first sailing vessel ever beheld by
his people had fled for refuge to their bay; and of the little girl
carefully brought to shore by her old nurse in the first boat to touch
the beach. A mere baby she was, too young to know aught of her
misfortune, yet a princess royal, rudely dispossessed of her right to
the throne of Spain, and smuggled aboard the adventurer Cabrillo's ship
to be dropped in some out-of-the-way corner of the western world. Even
then, he made it clear, she might have perished, - since little recked
the Spanish explorer what should happen, well knowing that upon his
return no questions would be asked, - had it not been for his Indian
wife. She, lacking children of her own, had taken an instant fancy to
the dark-eyed little girl, a fancy so strong that nothing would do but
they must adopt her as their own daughter into the tribe to belong
forever, according to their law, she and her children, to the Mariposa.

"Nor, because thy mother - for ever was she a true mother to thee -
thought that it might grieve thee, have any of my people ever given thee
cause to doubt that thou wert native born," he finished proudly. "Loyal
have they been, doing all they could to make thee happy. But now that
thy Indian mother is dead, and I myself grow old, I thought to wed thee,
knowing his desire, to the son of that same Cabrillo who brought thee to
us, for I long to be sure, when at length I go, that thou art safe, - at
home."

He waited then and in the silence only the low weeping of the girl was
heard. At length the old chief spoke again, and now in his voice love
conquered disappointment.

"Much do I desire it, but that matters not. I would not have thee
unhappy. I myself will tell the senor that what he hopes for cannot be."

Slowly Wildenai bent her head until it touched his feet. Then she
nestled close against him.

"I thank thee, oh my father!" she cried, and all her voice was music
because of her joy. "And thou art still my father," she added,
earnestly. "What care I to go to Spain? I will stay always with thee."

"For a time, it may be. Yet have a care, little wild rose," he
cautioned, smiling, "Let not the Englishman lure thee away! He, too, may
not be all that thou thinkest."

And even as he spoke, in mocking confirmation of his words, there came
to them suddenly from across the water, the distant creaking of ropes,
the snapping of sails flung hastily to the wind. Before their
unbelieving eyes the vessel swung about and put slowly out to sea. Dumb
with amazement they watched until the last faint light flickered into
darkness. Not until the remotest chance of a mistake was past did the
old chief rise, trembling with rage, to his feet.

"See'st thou now what I meant, my daughter? The English pale-faces know
not the meaning of honor, - no, nor of gratitude either!"

He lifted his long spear from the ground and shook it fiercely.

"The words of the Mariposa are few," he cried, "but their revenge is
sure. Let but an Englishman set foot again on Punagwandah and, swifter
than the arrow leaves the bowstring, he dies!"

And at once, without answer, in the silence of suffering which only the
wild things of the earth understand, Wildenai crept from the lodge, her
heart heavy with its own bitter disappointment. Noiselessly she passed
among the tepees where her father's people slept. Not one of them should
ever know how far dwelt slumber from her own eyes that night. Up the
steep trail beyond the Bay of Moons she climbed and flung herself
weeping on the bed of skins within the cavern.

"Oh, thou false one," she moaned, "why did'st thou promise then, when
never did'st thou mean to keep it?"



Yet nothing had been farther from the young Englishman's thoughts when
he left her than faithlessness to his word. On reaching the ship again
he had gone directly to his cabin. Here he took from its small but
richly embroidered case a slender chain of gold, threaded so closely
with garnets that even in the dim light of the one flaring lantern, the
only illumination the room could boast, it glowed, a glancing stream of
crimson, in his hand. This he carried to the light and as he examined it
under the lantern he smiled.

"Never saw the little maid such jewels before, I'll warrant me! Yet,
beshrew my heart, but she deserves them. Indian though she be, still is
she, nevertheless, the loveliest woman that ever mine eyes have looked
upon!"

Then, stowing the necklace carefully away in his belt, he went at once
in search of the commander.

But at this point an unexpected difficulty had presented itself. He
found Sir Francis in close conversation with his pilot.

"Marry, Sir, an it fit n'er so ill with thy wish," the keen-eyed old
mariner was saying. "I still maintain it were a shame to lose this wind.
Gift or no gift, I've sailed these latitudes before, my lord, and by
heaven I swear we're not like to have such another breeze, no, not till
the change of the moon, and that you know yourself, sir, is a good
fortnight hence."

Sir Francis, striding back and forth within the narrow confines of the
quarter deck, appeared to be weighing the old man's words with unusual
care. At length, however, he turned as one who has made his decision.

"By the mass and it shall be even as you say, Jarvis," he declared. "I
think myself 'twere well to push on at once. At the most they be but
Indians!" The last words were spoken in a lower tone as if to himself.
"'Twill matter little either way!"

It was at this point that young Harold stepped hastily forward. For,
strangely enough, although on the morning of that same day such a
proceeding would scarcely have appealed to him as being at all unfitting
or out of the ordinary, yet now it seemed unthinkable.

"But, good sir," he interrupted, "you would not so belie your promise!
To do as Jarvis here advises, - by heaven, 'twould be neither truthful
nor honorable! 'Tis not like you, Sir Francis!"

Drake shot at him a surprised glance from under his bushy eyebrows, then
shrugged his shoulders.

"Prate not to me, my lord, of truth or honor amongst these savages," he
replied. "Did not their chief himself but even now lie to me? Well knew
the rascally heathen where the Spaniard hides! The truth indeed! They
know not the meaning of such words."

In vain the younger man petitioned to be allowed to deliver the promised
gift with the aid of his own retinue.

"Thou can'st not get under way for two hours at best, sir," he pleaded,
"and well within that time I will be back. 'Tis but a stone's throw to
the shore!"

But Drake first scoffed at his rashness, then, finally losing patience,
as commander of the expedition he sternly forbade him or any of his men
to leave the ship.

"We dare not lose the wind," he finished emphatically, "and are like to
start at any minute." Then, turning on his heel, he strode away to his
cabin and shut the door behind him.

Left in this unceremonious fashion, young Harold considered a moment,
glancing with anxious eyes at the dim line of the coast just visible in
the darkness. For some minutes he leaned upon the rail, lost in thought.

"The old man will e'en have to bear his disappointment," he muttered at
length, "but, an' heaven help me, the maid shall not!"

Then he, too, left the deck to seek out his favorite retainer, the dark,
swarthy man who had sat that morning in the prow of the long boat. To
him he explained his difficulty, adding grimly:

"And so thou see'st, Mortimer, that I have work cut out for thee!"

He threw an arm about the other's shoulders and in this familiar fashion
the two men paced the deck together, conversing in low tones.

"And besides," observed the nobleman as they paused a moment before
parting, "would'st know the truth about the matter? For all old Jarvis'
prating, the Golden Hind is not like to sail before the dawn, no, nor
even then! Jarvis is ever the man to make a show of much hurry, but - "
he snapped his fingers scornfully, "only aid me now, unseen by anyone,
to launch the Zephir, and by our virgin queen herself I swear, when once
again we see the shores of Merry England, thou shalt find 'twas well
worth thy trouble."

His companion smiled even while, with the trained servility of the
retainer, he doffed his cap.

"Aye, truly, my lord," he answered, "but, since it were an impossible
feat to get so much as a colt into the Zephir, methinks thou hast a gift
of thine own to bestow on yonder pretty Indian maid!"

The blood leaped to Sir Harry's cheek. With a quick gesture he placed
his hand upon his sword.

"Presume not upon my favor, Mortimer, or by heaven! - " he began
angrily, but stopped suddenly as, with a fearless laugh, the man beside
him pushed the half-drawn weapon back into its place.

"Nay then, not so fast, my lord," he chuckled gaily. "Hearkee, my
master. I did but use my eyes during their everlasting pow-wow. Surely
ye would not grudge me that! And the maid is comely, well worth a
trinket from thy store. Besides," he laughed slyly, "I saw e'en more to
thine interest, for methinks the princess is as much in love with thy
looks as art thou with hers."

"Silence, fool! Thou hast said more than enough already. Think'st thou
the son of a duke royal would look at a brown-skinned savage, an
unbelieving pagan, no matter how comely, as thou call'st it, she might
be!"

But the flush remained, nevertheless, on the dark cheek of the young
nobleman as he strode angrily from the deck.



The moonlight had laid a quivering path of light across the water before
Wildenai raised her bowed head from the ground. But, at length, drawing
her blanket more closely about her, for into the night air the chill of
the ocean had crept, she was about to leave the cave when a sudden sound
from the beach below arrested her. For a moment she listened in silence
while the shout was repeated, then stood dumb with amazement. A third
time it came to her, borne on the rising wind, the terrified cry of a
man in dire distress. Nor was it one of her own people who thus called
out of the darkness for help. Swiftly she ran to an overhanging ledge of
rock from which, by lying flat and peeping over, she could, without
exposing herself, command a wide view of the sea.

At the first glance there appeared to be nothing amiss. Far beneath her
the noisy breakers spilled in liquid silver on the beach. Above their
musical booming no other sound could be heard. Then suddenly she saw
him. A tiny boat it was, tossing dangerously close to the great rounded
boulder which, together with a still larger one from which it had at
some distant time been broken off, formed the outermost boundary of the
curving Beach of Moons. The dark figure standing erect in the boat
strove with the aid of an oar to keep it from being dashed to pieces
against the giant rock. Again there floated up to her the desperate call
for help. The voice was that of the English noble!

Instantly the girl sprang to her feet, and without the slightest
hesitation ran lightly down the perilous incline, leaping fearlessly
from rock to rock, until, within a few seconds, she stood poised above
the seething surf on the top of the larger boulder. Here, balancing
herself as easily and securely as a wild antelope, she raised her arms
to dive. But now from the shadows below the white man called once more.

"Attempt it not, oh Wildenai! 'Tis death to leap from there!"

But without waiting even to reply, the Indian girl sprang into the
waves. An instant later and he saw her arms gleam in the moonlight as,
with the strong slow strokes of an experienced swimmer, she struck out
for the boat. In spite of the perilous rocking of the little craft he
rested on his oar to watch her for a moment in sheer admiration of her
skill. But the maid knew well the danger of every instant's delay. In
the very nick of time she seemed almost to throw herself between him and
the rocks while, with a strength he would have believed impossible in
one so small, she pulled the boat around. Then, still swimming and
without a word to him, she began to push it ahead of her toward the
shore. It was but a few minutes before they stood together on the beach.

And now the young noble, overcome with gratitude, fell on his knees
before her and caught her hand between his own. He would have kissed it
in sheer joy at his escape, but the Indian girl drew sharply back.

"Quick!" she whispered, yet remembering to speak in Spanish, "You must
hide yourself at once. My father will kill you if he should find you
here!"

Swiftly she concealed the boat in a tiny cove behind the boulder, a
hiding place he would never have seen though it was apparently perfectly
familiar to her.

"Sometimes my own canoe I keep there too," she whispered. "Now come!"
and she hurried him along the beach and up an easier trail beyond the
rocks to her cavern bower above.

Nor did she pause for an instant's rest until they had passed safely
behind the manzanita branches which concealed the entrance. Here,
motioning him to do the same, she dropped upon a pile of skins. But
instead, in real concern, the young Englishman knelt again beside her.

"Thou art so wet and cold," he began anxiously, "Will it not make thee
ill? Yet 'twas a wondrous feat," he added admiringly, "well conceived
and carried out with skill such as any man might envy!"

The princess laughed.

'Twas nothing," she answered briefly. "I do it almost every day."

"I came to bring to thee the gift I promised," explained Lord Harold
then, and from his belt he drew the little case. Eagerly he flung the
gleaming string of garnets about her slim brown throat.

"Jewels brought by my father to my mother on the morning of their
marriage," he told her. "When she lay dying she gave them me and told me
never to part with them except I gave them to my - " He paused suddenly,
"But thou hast saved my life!" he added as quickly, "Who else could ever
deserve them more? Well know I my mother would wish thee to have them."

Silently, though her eyes were bright with, pleasure, the princess
lifted the beautiful necklace.

"Wildenai will wear them always, senor lord," she answered softly, "for
now she knows that truly you did mean to keep your word!"

And so, his mission accomplished, her guest rose hastily to his feet. He
must return immediately to the ship.

"Know you not, then, that it is gone?" exclaimed the girl, amazed.

"Gone?" echoed young Harold, and stared at her astounded. He seemed not
to have grasped her meaning. "Gone, said'st thou?"

"The ship was out of sight a full hour or more ere ever I heard you
call," she explained.

Still he continued to gaze at her fixedly as if totally unable to
comprehend what she would have him know. Then it was plain to be seen
that, for the moment at least, blank despair took hold upon him. Up and
down the length of the cave he strode like some imprisoned wild thing.
At length, standing quite still with folded arms, he seemed to lose
himself in thought.

"Battling with the surf I did not see nor hear," he muttered at last.
"But he could not sail without me!" he added. Fiercely he raised his
head and his eyes flashed. "He dare not so betray me!"

Wildenai, too, had been considering.

"The great white captain knew, then, that you were not on board?" she
asked suddenly.

"No," replied the young man reluctantly, "that did he not. I came
without his knowledge. He would have prevented me," he continued
stubbornly, "and I had promised thee a gift. Never did I break my word,
nor would not then. But I did not dream it possible they could get away
so soon! By our virgin lady in Heaven I swear I know not what to do."
And once more he seemed lost in despair.

But only for a moment. Then he turned hastily to the entrance.

"I must follow them at once," he declared impatiently, "I can overtake
them even yet."

Swift as lightning the girl threw herself between him and the opening in
the cave.

"No, no, senor Englishman," she cried. "It is impossible! Listen, only
listen to me! What have you, then, to steer by save the stars? And you
see that, drowned in moonlight, they do not shine tonight. And, more
than that, you do not even know what course the vessel takes. Remember,
too, that there is neither food nor drink within your boat. You would
surely die ere you could ever find the ship."

Gradually she compelled him to listen to reason until, seating himself
again upon the skins, he challenged her still further.

"But what, then, shall I do?" he demanded. "Can'st also tell me that?"

And with equal readiness the princess replied:

"If you will but let me I can hide you here. The cavern is my own. Here
for many a moon have I worked and waited. No one would dare to enter.
You will be safe. Besides, my father's anger will grow cold in time, and
then I know that, if I ask him, he will help you."

His chin propped upon his hands, the young nobleman moodily considered.

"Well, do then as thou deemest best," he told her finally.

And from that moment there began for the little princess a time so
wonderful that for all the rest of her life she remembered each separate
hour as though it had been some beautiful word in a poem learned by
heart.

With deft fingers she piled her softest doeskins for his bed.

"But what wilt thou do, tell me, if I rob thee of thy nest?" he asked,
watching her with amused eyes as she worked.

"I go always to the village to sleep," she answered simply, and so left
him.

But in the morning while yet the red of sunrise burned above the great
peak Orazaba, she returned, bearing upon her head an olla of carved
stone filled with water from a mountain spring. This in smiling silence
she set before him and disappeared. Within the hour, however, she was
back again and this time, kneeling on the ground, she laid at his feet
the ripe fruit of the manzanita tree, lying like small red apples, dewy
fresh, upon a wild-grape leaf.

"Ala - ate, see! Are they not good?" she asked triumphantly.

And so from day to day she ministered to him. Many a time as he sat,
listless and moody, within his hiding-place, a handful of wild
strawberries, steeped in the warm sweetness of the hills, would be
pushed beneath the leafy branches that concealed the door. Sometimes she
brought him bread baked from a curious kind of meal made of pounded
seeds.

Once, too, when a sudden storm had chilled the air, she kindled a fire
for him within a smaller cave, receding like a fire-place into the rocky
wall opposite the opening. It was a long and tedious process which the
man watched curiously. First, kneeling on the ground, she rubbed
together two dry willow sticks until a little pile of dust had gathered.
Then, still stooping, she struck two flints together until at last a
spark fell into the dust. Some dry leaves were dropped upon the tiny
blaze, then twigs, and lo, a fire!

In spite of himself the Englishman smiled, though a softer feeling shown
in his eyes. How beautiful and yet how childish she looked kneeling
there with the anxious pucker between her brows. Poor little princess,
how very hard she worked to serve him!

"It takes a long time, Wildenai," he observed, "dost thou try it often?"

"Never for myself," she answered gravely. "I have no need. But I do it
gladly for you." She smiled brightly back at him, then rose and moved
swiftly to the doorway. "Another thing I do for you today. Wait!"

And when she returned a few minutes later she brought with her,
carefully wrapped in cool green leaves, a fish freshly caught that
morning.

"A brook trout, on my word, such as I have often taken in the streams at
home!" exclaimed Lord Harold, amazed.

"I got it far up the canyon before the sun was risen," she answered,
delighted at his surprise.

This, having quickly dressed it, she wrapped again in leaves and placed
under the hot ashes to bake, and it being, evidently, a feast out of the
ordinary, a merry-making to which a third guest might be bidden,
suddenly Wildenai left the cavern again to return this time with a tiny
gray fox perched familiarly upon her shoulder.

"'Tis Onatoa, senor Englishman," she announced, gently stroking the
bushy tail of the little creature as it lay about her neck.

But from his vantage point above his rival, Onatoa merely sniffed
disdainfully with his sharp black nose. He looked far from friendly.

The princess laughed softly.

He does not know you yet," she defended her pet. "He will soon learn to
love you, too."

"I will catch fish with thee next time thou goest," declared young
Harold later as they ate together. "There's no reason I can see why I
should stay mewed up forever in this cave. I fear not Indians! No, not
even Torquam, thy father, himself."

For an instant Wildenai seemed alarmed. Then she laughed.

"You are afraid of nothing. I knew it!" she exclaimed with pride. "Nor
would there be much danger. We will go to the other side of the island
where the waves run high and the cliffs are tall and black. There will I
show you the nests of the great eagles, and the antelope leaping among
the rocks. And, - who can tell?" she laughed again with child-like
pleasure, "perhaps we shall find a white otter!"

And, true to her word, he heard at dawn next day outside the cavern the
whistle of a blackbird, a signal early contrived between them. She
deemed it best, she explained, to start thus early that the darkness
might conceal them until they had passed well beyond the outskirts of
the village. But this danger overcome, they spent the whole day rambling
fearlessly among the hills, - a long, idle, happy day. Up many a dim
trail winding back into the canyons the princess led him. Through golden
thickets of wild mustard they passed, coming, when he least expected it,
upon glimpses of the summer sea framed between the branches of knarled
old oak trees.

"They are low and crooked, and they spread themselves over the ground as
do our English oaks," the young nobleman informed her.

As Wildenai had promised they discovered, poised high among the crags of
the wild southern shore, the great eagles of which she had told him,
measuring easily, from wing-tip to wing-tip, fully a dozen feet. The
white otter, rarest and most valuable of all the game hunted by her
people, eluded them, but many a small gray fox slipped away among the
bushes, leaving the Englishman tingling for the chase.

At twilight, as they made their way back to the cavern, they came upon a
tiny lake lying asleep within the crater of a dead volcano. From the
sides little clouds of ashes rose, floating softly away on the breezes
of evening. The princess gathered a handful and murmuring some musical
words in her own tongue she threw them into the air.

"And would it be amiss for me to ask what 'tis you do?" questioned her
companion, observing her closely.

"I was sending a prayer to Wakan-ate, the Great Spirit," she replied
quietly.

"A prayer, - and borne to heaven on the wings of ashes!" He seemed
amused. "But what hast thou to pray for, oh fair princess?"

Her cheeks glowing with quick color, she replied: "It were not fitting
that any maiden tell for what she prays!"

The words were spoken with such gravity that the young man flushed under
the rebuke.

When she left him at the doorway of the cavern that evening she said as
she made a gay little gesture of farewell: "Today the land, but tomorrow
we shall find still more beautiful things that lie hidden under the deep
waters. You shall see!"

And once again with dawn she came. This time it was the splash of a
paddle that brought him to the opening in the rock.

"Aloho-ate, lazy one!" she called gaily from below. "Make haste! The
world is always loveliest while it lies waiting for the sun!"

That day, perhaps, from among them all, lived longest within the memory
of young Harold, - the porpoises playing fearlessly around her canoe as
the princess, with graceful, effortless strokes, paddled around one
after another of the pointed tongues of rock; the flying fish, skimming
the surface of the ocean until, by virtue of their speed alone, they
rose like gleaming bows of silver from the foam. Intent to show him all
her treasures, Wildenai guided him to a quiet stretch of water lying
close to shore within the shadow of tall cliffs which rose at that point
with precipitous abruptness from the sea itself.

"Here are my gardens that grow under the water," she explained, as they
glided above the spot. "Look well at them. They are most beautiful."

And gazing down at her command through the clear green into the luminous
depths below, he caught glimpses of these gardens of the sea where
goldfish darted like tropical birds among the branches of tall tree-like
stalks of swaying seaweed, and strange shapes of jade and blue floated
in the shadows.

"Is it not wonderful?" she asked.

"It is indeed, my Wildenai," he answered earnestly. "Never in all my
travels, methinks, have I seen aught before like this your island here!
It seems to me indeed a charmed land, a kind of magic isle!"

One day it rained, the last belated rain of winter. But even the storm
brought pleasures of its own, for, seated on the pile of skins beside
him, the little gray fox curled contentedly at her feet, Wildenai worked
at her loom. Within its dull-colored warp a blanket, woven in a strange
design of mingled red, and black, and white, grew slowly beneath her
busy fingers.

For hours the maiden drew the short woolen threads in and out while the
young man, stretched lazily upon the ground, told her many a tale of the
England he had left. Then, quite without warning, she ceased her work
and sat pensively watching through the opening in the rocks the long
gray swell of the sea.

"And what is it now, my princess?" laughed young Harold. "The pattern is
not yet finished, nor is the rain abated."

"Ah, senor Harold lord," wistfully replied the girl, "I was but wishing
I had been born one of those same fair English maids with the eyes of
blue and golden hair you tell about. Then would you love me even as you
do them!" she added artlessly, and leaned her chin upon her hand,
considering. A secret trembled on her lips.

"And how if I were Spanish born?" she questioned, and lifted hesitating,
frightened eyes to his, "dark to look at, that I know well, but even so,
the white man's kind of princess, who also has a throne?"

And all unwitting Lord Harold answered scornfully, "Spanish! Say no such
word to me! The English hate the Spanish!" Fiercely he caught up a
pebble and sent it whirling out across the water. "Even now their robber
king plans his huge armada to take our queen and rule our land, but
that, by the holy virgin herself, shall never be! Sooner will every drop
of blood in bonny England be spilt. Never could I make thee understand
how much I hope to be at home before he comes! Spanish indeed! Nay,
never let me hear the hateful word again!"

Then, noting her puzzled, downcast face, with the impulsive
changeableness which had so endeared him to her, he caught one little
brown hand and raised it to his lips.

"But I do love thee even as thou art, my Wildenai," he told her with the
careless assurance of one much older speaking to a child. "Is not a wild
rose sweet as any garden bloom? Nay, methinks 'tis often sweeter!"

Again he laughed and the little princess laughed with him now, for into
her heart at his words had come a happiness so unlooked for and so
wildly sweet as wholly to bewilder her. Quickly she rose, struck by a
sudden thought, and running to the farthermost corner of the cavern she
brushed aside a pile of leaves and lifted some stones, disclosing at
length a box fashioned from the choicest cedar. Out of it, while the
Englishman watched with wondering eyes, she drew a garment made of
creamy doeskin, deeply fringed and trimmed besides with strings of
wampum, the polished fragments of abalone shells and many-colored beads.
Silently she brought it to him and when he touched it admiringly, for
the dress was beautiful. "It is my marriage robe," she told him gravely.

That night, while the rain tapped softly at her tepee, the princess
dreamed of a wondrous land beyond the sea where proudly she walked by
her white chief's side and fair women with braided, golden hair spoke
kind words of welcome, smiling at her out of sweet blue eyes.



Then, without warning, came the end of all her dreams. Hurrying along
the beach at sunset only a few days later, Wildenai caught the first
glimpse of the returning vessel as it stole around a distant point. For
the space of a second her heart stood still, then throbbed wildly, but
whether with joy or pain she could not herself have told. One question
only demanded all her thought. Should she let Lord Harold know? Perhaps
the great white captain would not remember their bay. Perhaps, - her
breath came fast, - perhaps the ship, unseen by anyone, would pass and
Lord Harold remain behind content. With hands tight-clenched she watched
the distant sail, fear growing in her eyes. Yet she knew that she would
tell him. Nothing else was honorable. This, surely, he must decide for
himself.

But tidings of such moment outran even her swift feet. She found him
buckling on his swordbelt, in his eyes the glad light of some trapped
bird which sees the door of its cage suddenly open.

"The ship - " she began with sinking heart.

"Yes, yes, I know! I saw it!" he answered, a fever of impatience in his
voice. "'Tis Drake. I knew he dared not leave me! 'Twill soon be too
close in. Needs not he risk his safety. I must go before he gains the
shore."

The princess hesitated. What meant that strange heaviness at her heart?
Was he not still her brave, true warrior, - her great white chief? Had
he not told her that he loved her? Crossing to where he stood she bowed
herself before him until her silver fillet touched his feet.

"I, too!" she whispered, "I shall go to England with thee!"

And at her words, within the little cavern there came a silence to be
felt. In undisguised dismay the Englishman gazed at her where she knelt.
Then:

"By the holyrood!" he muttered aghast, "She must have thought, - God
only knows what she must have thought!"

He glanced hurriedly toward the doorway and back again, ashamed. Then
even such impatience as was his gave way, for the moment at least, to
something more chivalric. He stooped and patted awkwardly the smooth
black head.

"Come, Wildenai, little wild rose, look up and speak to me. I must be
going!"

But still the maid lay prostrate, clasping close his rough buskins in
her little brown hands. Never in all his life had Lord Harold been so
sorely uncomfortable. How was it possible she had ever imagined that he
could take her with him, - that he had meant so much? Resentment grew
within him at the thought, yet strangely mingled always with something
far more tender. Hastily he considered, his heart torn between the
desire not to wound her and dread of what he knew she wanted. To be sure
the maid was beautiful, with the softened beauty of a moonlit night in
summer, her eyes beneath her dusky hair like stars between the branches
of dark trees, her voice that of the forest stream when it sings itself
to sleep. Yet past all doubt he knew that not one among the gorgeous
throng that crowded about Elizabeth would ever see that beauty, no
English ear take heed to hear the music of her voice. Nay, he could
even, as he thought of it, picture the amazement of the great queen,
could hear her scornful laughter, should he present, to help adorn her
court, a savage Indian girl! No, a thousand times no! Such disgrace he
could not suffer. Nor was the maid herself, so he defended himself,
fitted for such a life. Soon would she be as unhappy in England as he
would be to have her there. Besides, she was but a child. Else had she
never so far forgot all womanly dignity as to force herself upon him,
and being but a child she would soon forget. Gently he made to raise her
to her feet.

"Wildenai, little wild rose," he began again, "what thou hast asked of
me thou dost well know thyself is an unheard of thing. Much as I owe to
thee, and well know I that 'tis so much I never can repay it; still for
thine own sweet sake 'tis not in this way thy reward must come. The long
journey and the strange new life would kill thee, Wildenai." Having once
begun he stumbled on, but half aware of how each word he uttered hurt
her, eager only to have done with the whole sorry scene. "Thou art but a
little wild flower. Thou couldst not live away from this, thy sunny
island. Can'st thou not understand, my Wildenai?"

He paused, waiting for a reply; but the maiden answered nothing. Silent
she lay as though in very truth she were a wild flower tossed to earth
and trampled upon by some uncaring foot.

At last the man could bear it no longer. Forcibly he loosed her hands
and stepped back. For a moment longer he lingered, looking down upon her
in mingled impatience and regret; then, turning abruptly, he passed
hastily out of the cavern and down the trail to the beach.

Still the girl lay motionless. It was as if every sense were stunned,
all power of thought suspended except to grasp the one fact that made
her whole world empty, - he was gone! As in a dream she heard the
grating of the pebbles when he pushed his boat into the water, heard the
clank of the oars as they dropped into the oar-locks. Even yet she did
not move. Then, after many minutes, she crept to the opening and
searched the sea with eyes almost, too dim with tears to find that for
which she sought. But yes, there it was, - a black speck against the
golden sunset. She watched until she had seen the distant vessel put
about, making for the open sea. Ah, now she knew that he was safe
aboard, - no need had they to come farther into shore. Yet still she
waited, straining her eyes to see the ship sink slowly beneath the
horizon. One last glint of sunlight against a white sail, and it was
gone.

Then at once she rose, and moving quietly about the little cavern, she
put all in perfect order with touch as tender as that of a mother
preparing for its last sleep some little child. Here was the basket he
had helped to weave, here the mat on which he had lain. Her fingers
lingered caressingly on each thing that he had touched. There in the
corner still stood the olla in which she had brought him water. How
amused he had been that she could carry it on her head all the way up
the hill from the spring without so much as spilling one drop! But that
was all past now.

When at last everything was finished she gave the little rock-walled
room one long, lingering look, the look of one who would carry in his
heart the image of what he beholds all the rest of his life. Then she,
too, made her way through the doorway into the deepening dusk.



On the beach below, squatted within the opened flap of his tepee,
Torquam, mighty chief of the Mariposa, smoked his evening pipe. A
wonderful pipe it was, long and delicately fashioned, inlaid with
iridescent fragments of shell. Yet instantly he laid it aside as the
slender form of his daughter darkened the doorway.

"Ah, Wildenai, little wild rose, welcome art thou as sunshine after
rain!" His eyes lighted with the tenderness never seen there by any
other than this motherless girl. He stretched his hand to her and the
princess came silently and knelt before him.

"My father," she said firmly, though in so low a tone that Torquam bent
to hear. "Oh, father, thou art always wise! Thou only knowest best. I
come to thee to tell that I will wed Cabrillo. I will wed with him
whenever thou dost choose!"

Taking her face between his hands, Torquam gazed long and searchingly
into the sorrowful eyes of his daughter.

"And thou art wise to do so, my beloved one," he said at last. "He will
make to thee a good husband." In his voice was the keen understanding of
a father. "He will be kind to thee and heal thy wounded heart, my
daughter. Don Cabrillo is a good man," he repeated solemnly."



Miss Hastings Brings It to an End



Part II



Miss Hastings Brings It to an End



Centuries passed, and again, with the same sweet suddenness as in the
days gone by, spring came to Catalina. Guests of the St. Catherine,
lounging on its wide verandahs, gazed across a sunlit sea to where the
faint cloud that was San Jacinto hovered, the merest ghost of a
mountain, above the misty mainland. Along the broad board-walk leading
down to Avalon benches, shaded by brightstriped awnings, flaunted an
invitation to every passing tourist. Strings of Japanese lanterns bobbed
merrily above the narrow village streets. Everywhere were laughter and
movement and color from the bathing beaches, dotted with gay umbrellas -
even to the last yacht anchored round the point.

To the man making slow progress down the crowded wharf from the
afternoon boat this holiday world into which he thus suddenly stepped,
presented an appearance so different from that he had pictured as almost
to bewilder him. At sight of the jaunty little motorbus waiting to haul
him up the winding grade to the hotel, he actually hesitated. Yet seldom
before, to his knowledge, had he found it difficult to adapt himself to
an unexpected situation.

"Hotel St. Catherine! Bus to the hotel, sir?"

Other guests, more certain of their intentions, pushed impatiently
against him, and presently he found himself, wedged well toward the
middle of the long seat, chugging comfortably up the hill. Still
half-daunted, he gazed about him. It was all of it charming to be sure,
fascinating even; yet, could this festive summering place be the Avalon
of his dreams? Was this the quaint village of Spanish times, reaching
back still further through dimly remembered Indian lore to a world lost
now except to legend? Yet it was for the sake of a mere legend, a
fanciful tale handed down in his family through many a generation, that
he had made the long journey from New York to California, nor - and here
he set his lips with dogged determination, did he intend to return until
he had found that for which he searched.

It was now something over two years since Harrison Blair, then fresh
from Yale, had astonished both those who wished him well and those who,
for various envious reasons, did not, with the wholly unreasonable
success of his first book. For, to those who did not understand, his
sudden fame had seemed all the more surprising in that it rested upon
nothing more substantial than a slender volume of Indian verse. So
unusual, however, had been his treatment of this well-worn subject as to
call forth more than a little comment from even the most conservative of
critics. The Brush and Pen had hastened to confer upon him an honorary
membership. Cadmon, magic weaver of Indian music, had written a warm
letter of appreciation. And, most precious tribute of all, the Atlantic
Monthly had become interested in his career.

To be sure, it was nothing more than might have been expected of a man
whose undergraduate work in English had aroused the reluctant wonder of
more than one instructor. Nevertheless, the fact that he pulled stroke
on the 'varsity crew had somewhat blinded other contemporaries to his
more scholarly attainments. Nor had anyone thought it probable, because
of his father's wealth, that Blair, in any event, would feel called upon
to do much more than make a frolic of life. No one, indeed, had been
more taken aback than had his father to find him, a year after
graduation, drudging over the assistant editor's desk of a struggling
magazine the payroll of which, to put it mildly, offered no financial
inducements.

"It's good practice for me, though, - quickest way to learn," was all he
vouchsafed when the older man remonstrated.

Yet, had that same father, shrewd capitalist that he was, but taken the
trouble to reason back from premises evident enough, he might have been
the first to realize that this tall son of his, with the keen gray eyes
and a face the strength of which was but increased by the high cheek
bones and squarely molded chin, was scarcely the type of man to sit idly
by enjoying the fruits of another's labor.

And now, after two years more of grinding apprenticeship, he had in mind
something much bigger than the slender volume of verse, - an adventure
into authorship more suited to his metal, - a story for which an intense
personal sympathy would furnish fitting atmosphere, with the final spur
to his ambition a letter from the Atlantic even at the moment stowed
safely away in his pocket.

Some two hours later, after an unexpectedly excellent dinner in the
luxurious dining room, he sauntered over to the hotel desk. There was no
more than the faintest probability that a clerk of the St. Catherine
would be able to tell him how to reach a secret cavern bower above the
Bay of Moons; still, he had to enter an opening wedge somewhere. The one
man on duty was for the moment occupied with another guest, and Blair,
lighting his after-dinner cigar, prepared with leisurely patience to
await his turn.

The guest happened to be a young woman, rather pretty, he casually
decided, although her greatest claim to beauty lay more, perhaps, in the
swift changes in expression of which her face was capable, than in any
actual regularity of line. For lack of anything better to do, Blair
watched idly her encounter with the clerk. There appeared to be some
kind of misunderstanding.

"Awfully sorry it's happened that way, Miss Hastings," the man behind
the desk was saying. He lifted with genuine reluctance the key she had
just laid down. "We'd be mighty sorry to interfere with your work, but
those small rooms always do go first. You know that yourself."

"I hadn't heard about it, though. I didn't know they were all gone." Her
voice quivered with disappointment.

Blair, whose vocation taught him a certain technical sympathy, shot a
swift glance at her. She couldn't be more than twenty-two or
thereabouts, he decided less casually, and went on to observe her still
further. She wore a shabby, broad-brimmed hat much faded as if from
constant exposure to the sun, but the shadows in the coil of hair
beneath were warmly golden.

"Couldn't you find a room down in the village somewhere, - at Mrs.
Merrill's perhaps?" suggested the clerk.

"But Mrs. Merrill isn't here this spring." In spite of its quiver the
voice was very sweet.

"No," she started to turn away, "I'll have to put it off again, I
suppose. I've looked everywhere."

She took a step or two, hesitated, then returned to the desk.

"You're positive there isn't a single one of the small rooms left?" she
pleaded. "I wouldn't care how far back it was, - anything would do. You
can't think how I hate to give up. I had so hoped to finish it this
time!"

The man shook his head.

"No, we're absolutely full just now. Later on there might be something,
- after the season is over."

"But that will be after school begins," answered the girl bitterly. "I
can't work at all then!" and catching up a bag fully as shabby as the
hat, she hurried away.

"Who is she?" asked Blair abruptly, overlooking for the moment his
original purpose in seeking the man.

"School-teacher from Pasadena," replied the clerk briefly. "Teaches art
in some private school over there, I believe." He eyed Blair amusedly.
"Think you've met her before somewhere?"

Blair allowed his annoyance to show. "No, never laid eyes on her till
just now. But I couldn't help feeling a bit sorry for her," he
persisted. "She seemed so sort of cut up. What's the trouble?"

"I'm sorry for her myself," declared the man on the other side as he
hung the returned key on its board. "This is the third time that poor
little woman's had to leave before she could finish what she came for on
account of the expense. But what can we do?" He shrugged his shoulders.
"The St. Catherine isn't exactly a Y. W. C. A."

"What is it she's trying to do?"

Amusement deepened in the man's eyes.

"She's supposed to be painting Indians."

"Indians!" To the amazement of the other man Blair suddenly leaned
forward, his eyes agleam with interest.

"But I didn't know there were any around here."

"There aren't."

"Then how - ?"

"Makes 'em up out of her head, I guess. I never heard that she had even
a model."

"But - but what I want to know is why she comes here at all?" The
situation seemed to Blair to offer possibilities, yet he was thoroughly
puzzled. "I met a fellow on the train who does that sort of thing, but
he always goes to the desert to paint, - at least he said he did."

"Yes, they do mostly. Probably he meant Taos, - whole nest of artists at
Taos."

"Well, but why in thunder then - ?"

The clerk smiled skeptically.

"Why, you see, it's something like this. Miss Hastings' bent on being an
illustrator, pays better than teaching, I suppose, or - well, at any
rate, that's what she's aiming for, - and she has an idea that if she
can only get a series of pictures, - several of them on the same
subject, you understand, - accepted by one of those Eastern magazines,
she can soon work in with some big publisher and get an order. She told
us all about it one night last winter when she was over."

"But in heaven's name, why Indians?" persisted Blair.

"Because she thinks she's found some good material here. She told me
about that, too. Seems there's an old legend connected with Catalina,
about an Indian princess and a cavern. The princess died of a broken
heart or something of the sort, I believe she said. I never heard the
particulars myself. Nobody else, either, seems to know anything about
it. But Miss Hastings says there's quite a story, and she's got it all
down pat from A to Z. She's using it for her series."

A porter brought up some newcomers and Blair stepped aside. But the
moment his man was at leisure again he cornered him at once. An idea had
come to him, an idea almost dazzling in its possibilities.

"You say she hasn't finished her series yet?"

"Beg pardon? Oh, the teacher?" The man shook his head. "Evidently not
from what she said just now. She never stays long enough really to put
it over. Every few months she bobs up over a week-end, but that doesn't
give her time even to visit some of the places she's after. She never
seems to get much more than started before she has to go home again."

For a moment Blair smoked in silence. Then:

"Look here," he cut in abruptly, "You split my suite and give her one of
my rooms."

The man's eyebrows rose in surprise.

"Her? What do you mean?"

Blair made an impatient gesture.

"Why, this Miss - the teacher, you know. Didn't you just say you hadn't
any room for her? Well, I've got three, you know."

"Yes, but that's altogether a different proposition. You made your
reservation weeks ago."

"But you could still give her one of them, couldn't you?"

Clerks in large hotels listen with patience to a vast number of strange
proposals, but at this from Blair, the man opposite eyed him in
unflattering amazement.

"But you said, when you wired, you wanted the extra room to work in," he
objected, "and you'll remember, Mr. Blair, that you were pretty emphatic
about it, too, at the time. We went to all kinds of trouble to fix that
up for you."

"I can get along all right without it, though," coolly observed his
changeable guest, "and I'd rather she'd have it. It's possible to split
suites here, isn't it?" he persisted. "They do at most hotels."

"It's possible, of course." Across the desk the eyes of the two men met
squarely. "That part of it's easy enough. But why? and who's going to
pay for it?"

"I'm going to pay for it! What did you suppose?" exploded Blair. "It's
worth that and a lot more to me just now to keep her from getting away.
Oh, I'm in earnest all right. I mean it! Look here! Can't you see how
that woman can be a perfect gold mine to me? You know enough about my
work to understand that I'm really out here after Indians myself, and
she - well, I'll wager a cool thousand there isn't a spot on this whole
island that ever dreamed of seeing an Indian that she doesn't know all
about!"

The clerk nodded. "But - "

"But nothing!" Impatiently Blair brushed aside all objections. "Why, I
hadn't the remotest idea how I was going to get started. It's a rattling
piece of good luck, and we'll fix it up right now!"

"Yes, but - " Still the other man hesitated. "It sounds all right
enough, - from your end of it especially, but you'd better see her
first. She's a proud little piece, - doesn't like obligations of any
kind, - and a stranger, - a man - I'm sorry to discourage you, but I
don't believe she'll have a thing to do with it."

In Blair's eyes impatience threatened to become something more emphatic.

"It's a business proposition pure and simple," he argued. "She gives me
all the information she's been able to get together, and I pay her
expenses while she does it. That gives her a chance to finish her own
work, don't you see? A mighty good proposition for her, too, I should
say, and if she doesn't see it that way herself, - why, - well, she
isn't as intelligent as she looks, that's all!"

"Providing you can persuade her it is just business. I'd advise you to
talk with her first, just the same. And you'll have to be quick about
it, too. She's planning to wait in the village tonight for the morning
boat, and she'll be starting down about now."



Outside was one of those radiant nights intended for dreams and the
makers of dreams. Over an ocean white with light long breakers rolled
crests gleaming with silver that fell in soft thunder on the beach. Miss
Hastings, hurrying along the board-walk to the village, glanced at them
and looked quickly away.

"Oh, I say!" came a voice out of the darkness behind her, "if you don't
mind, hold on there a minute, will you? Wait for me, please!" The voice
was that of a man, pleasant, but exceedingly determined. Without so much
as turning her head Miss Hastings quickened her steps.

But it was of no use. Whoever her pursuer might be, he was even then at
her side.

"I beg your pardon," breathlessly he began again, "but I've been chasing
you all the way down from the hotel. I want you to come right back there
with me. I have a proposal to make to you."

Even in the darkness he could see how the girl's eyes blazed.

"I never listen - " she began hotly, "to proposals from people I don't
know," she had meant to add, but he gave her no time.

"It will mean the biggest chance for your pictures you've ever had," he
broke in. "Now, listen!"

And, to her complete surprise, Miss Hastings suddenly found herself
doing that very thing.

"There are a lot of things I've got to find out right away," continued
the astonishing stranger, "and the clerk up there tells me you're
painting a series of Indian portraits."

The little art teacher gazed at him fascinated. What manner of man could
this be, she wondered.

"I don't see the connection - " Coldness struggled with curiosity in her
voice.

"Listen!" With uplifted, peremptory hand again he stopped her. Nor is it
safe to say that any book agent, watching the door slowly closing upon
him, ever talked faster, or more rigidly to the point, than did Blair
within the next few minutes.

"Perhaps you won't understand it all right off. I wouldn't expect that.
But it's this way. I'm representing Harper's, and Houghton and Mifflin,
and Dodd and Mead, and - several other firms" (to satisfy his conscience
Blair contended with himself that he might as well as not have been
their representative - a mere oversight on their part ought not to be
allowed to stand in his way), "and I'm out here to find the best
illustrator I can lay hands on to do the pictures for some Indian stuff
I'm getting into shape for one of 'em. I want to see your work. And, if
I like it, I'll pay you well. And anyway, I'll pay every bit of the
expense while you finish your series here if you'll tell me what you
know about Wildenai!"

But, at the name, the girl beside him had given a low cry of utter
amazement. She stopped short.

"Do you know it too, then?" she gasped. "How did you hear about it?"

"Oh, I've known it for years," replied Blair carelessly. "Some of it
I've known all my life. But look here now. Is it a bargain? - about your
helping me, I mean?"

Before he left her, an hour or so later, every detail had been arranged.
Miss Hastings had meekly agreed to return to the hotel in the morning.
Blair would pay her expenses and something he called a retaining fee
besides. That would make an extra fifty dollars, - she smiled to herself
in the dark, - a new winter suit at least, and perhaps one or two
matinees if she managed! All this for the information she could give him
about the island and its history. The various points in their contract
spun dizzily in her dazed brain. No spot known to legend to which it was
possible to conduct him should remain unvisited. Four hours out of every
day were pledged without fail to his interests. The rest of the time she
might have for her own work. It had all come about so unexpectedly, and
was altogether so extraordinary that, after he had gone, his new
employe, stretched uncomfortably upon a narrow cot in the tent of a
fellow teacher, spent the remainder of the night in imaginary interviews
with Eastern publishers regarding impossible royalties. She was far too
excited to sleep.

And, for a week, the arrangement worked very well, - almost too well.
Every day brought with it some new adventure, and every adventure became
a pleasure.

Mounted at Blair's expense on more or less energetic ponies, for from
the first he had insisted that horses were a necessary part of their
business equipment, they cantered gaily along the shady canyon trails,
or over the sunlit slopes sheeted in pale lavender wherever the wild
lilacs were in bloom. Often, emerging from some thicket of dwarf oak
they caught glimpses of a sapphire sea held between red, twisted
branches of manzanita as in a frame. About them rang the music of the
meadow larks. Merry shouts of bathers floated up from the beaches far
below, mingled with the distant click of golf balls on the greens.

For the whole of a golden day they chartered a sailboat from one, Capt.
Warren, and rounding the yellow headlands under his lazy guidance, they
went to examine the Ning Po, the ancient Chinese barge stranded, no one
knew how many hundreds of years before, among the rocks off the isthmus.

"Fascinating old place," observed Blair gazing, his eyes aglow with
interest, around the mediaeval cabin. "Don't doubt a dozen murders at
least were pulled off in this one room!"

"Oh yes, of course," eagerly echoed his assistant. "It's absolutely
unique!"

Her gaze, as bright with interest as his own, rested upon Blair himself.
She was considering, absent-mindedly, how becoming white trousers can be
to most men, especially when they are reasonably dark themselves. But, -
her glance travelled upward, - how unusually dark he was, and his hair,
- yes, without question, the straightest and blackest she had ever seen.
Yet it seemed in some indefinable way to become him, - to belong, as it
were, to his type. Leaning her elbows meditatively upon the rusty
anchor, her chin in her hands, she silently appraised him. He really was
a handsome man, she decided, and clever, too, of the sort who does
things in the world! A dreamy light grew within her eyes.

It was only two or three evenings later when, on their way back from the
site of an historic Indian village on the other side of the island, they
walked their horses slowly around the Wishbone Loop, the ostensible
reason being that, as Blair had already discovered, it commanded the
widest view of the ocean at sunset.

He was the first to speak when they struck again into the main trail.

"I wished for something about a rose, a wild rose, - want to guess?" He
eyed her mischievously.

"Hush, - mustn't tell!" she laughed. "Your wish won't come true if you
tell." Then, for no reason at all, she blushed.

Never, in truth, during her twenty-three years of working, and
scrimping, and going without, had life shown to the little art teacher
so fair and generous a side, seemed so extravagantly joyous an affair as
during that magic week. The spending of money, it was easy to see, meant
little or nothing to Blair. But that was the least of his attractions,
for, to the girl herself, mere wealth for its own sake had never
appealed. The charm lay rather in the genial broadness of his view of
things, the strength of reasoning behind the few opinions he put
forward, his reticence, and quiet modesty. In these dwelt the spell that
swept her into an almost delirious enjoyment of his society. For, all
unknown to herself, like many another woman in like condition, she had
needed a change of people. In the cramped life of a private school men
played but little part, and the men who were most worth while, almost no
part at all. Instinctively, in time, she had wearied of little girls and
their lessons. Sorely had she craved the stimulus which only the
companionship of congenial men can give. Of this fact, however, she had
been even less aware.

One crisp morning, seated in a diminutive wicker cart behind a
discontented pony, they searched out Chicken John's cabin on the mesa
behind the golf links.

"Not that it has anything to do with Indians," she apologized, "only I
want you to see him. He's such a character, so nice and untidy and
queer!"

As a result of this expedition they brought away with them what old John
designated a "plump little fry" to be served at the cosy table for two
in the sunniest window of the dining room, a luxury which Blair had
likewise confiscated in the interests of business.

And so for seven glorious days they tramped the fragrant hills, or
sailed a sea as softly blue as though fallen fresh that morning from the
cloudless heaven above. In the warmth and glow of his friendship the
starved heart of the little art teacher opened like some hot-house
flower carried suddenly into the wide outdoors. And when at last the
week drew to an end, their work, both his and hers, was still
unfinished, so that there was nothing else to do but to live on through
another fully as wonderful.

Blair himself took things much more for granted, and even when their
talk strayed farthest afield it was plain to the girl that his mind
never fully lost sight of the purpose for which he had come. His work
stood always first, while, - she blushed to own it even to herself, -
she had sometimes entirely forgotten her own.

At the end of the third week they had seen almost everything he
considered essential and at times she sensed in his manner, even when he
was least aware of it, a kind of repressed impatience. She knew what it
meant and shivered. Presently he would leave her, and life would become
again the same dull round of work. Only one spot of real importance
remained unvisited, - the cavern bower above the Bay of Moons. Of this
he had spoken frequently, and well she knew he held it the climax of his
search.

But for reasons best known to herself Miss Hastings put off from day to
day this final expedition until Blair began to chaff at the delay.

"That's really the one place I came to see!" he told her more than once.
"After I've been there I think I can go."

"But we've planned Middle Ranch for today," she would answer evasively,
or, "This is the best time to see Orazaba; it's so clear this morning.
That's the mountain, you know, where the Indians carved out their ollas.
Some of them are still there, only half cut away. It would be too bad
for you to miss that."

At length, however, there came a day when excuses would do no longer.

"We've waited long enough," he declared that morning over their coffee,
"Besides, I may have to go now in a few days."

And although at his words the sunshine of her new world faded suddenly
away, yet the little teacher kept a brave front. She even laughed
carelessly.

"Men are so impatient," she teased, "But we'll go today."

Nevertheless, it was not until the rose of sunset rested among the hills
that at last they found themselves on the crest of the tall cliff which
commanded so wide a stretch of the ocean and the shimmering valleys
below.

"It reminds one of the Bay of Naples," observed Blair, pausing to scan
the rocky coastline against which, far beneath them, the foaming
breakers threw themselves. He shaded his eyes with his hand and looked
far out to sea. "What a wonderful place for a watch tower it would have
made!"

"It had one once," softly replied the girl, "Wildenai's watch tower!"

Blair turned, their eyes met, and he smiled.

"It's been splendid to have you with me all these days," he said, "I've
been wanting to tell you. You've been more of a help than you'll ever
know." And then, after a pause, "It's because you care so much about the
story yourself, I suppose, that you've been such an inspiration to me."

Something in the girl's heart seemed suddenly to snap.

"It's because I care more about your work, and - and you. You are so
wonderful!" she broke forth impulsively, and stood before him crimson
with confusion. For a second, which seemed to her an age, there was
silence. Then he spoke and, in her bitter humiliation, his voice sounded
strained and cold.

"Shall we go in?" he asked.

Silently he parted the tangle of manzanita that for centuries had veiled
the secrets of the princess, and stood aside for her to enter. Wildly
the little art teacher glanced about her. This moment to which she had
so looked forward, and yet had dreaded as much because it meant the end,
- this moment which might, nevertheless, have meant much to them both
even though it were the end, she herself had spoiled! All its delicate
beauty changed to a sordid suspicion, it lay in ruins now because of her
thoughtless words. She dared not guess at what he must be thinking! For
a desperate second she considered flight. Then proudly she raised her
head. One more thing, at least, about her now he should learn!

"Did you know - ?" she began, then broke off irresolute.

Blair glanced at her and again their eyes met. This time he did not
smile.

"Know what?" he asked.

She laughed with embarrassment.

"It really isn't of any interest to you, but - " and again she paused.

"Suppose you let me be the judge of that," he suggested stiffly. "You're
making me horribly curious, you know. You can't very well drop the
subject now." He was evidently making an effort at pleasantry.

She flushed brightly.

"Of course it couldn't be of the slightest importance to anyone except
myself," she explained. Then, as if doubting her courage to continue
long, she hurried on, "but one reason I take such an interest in - your
work is because I'm a direct descendant of Lord Harold myself. He became
the Duke of Norfolk afterward, you know, but Hastings was always the
family name." She flashed him a haughty glance, a pride that changed to
wideeyed surprise as she noted his amazement.

"Not really?" He had turned abruptly and in his eyes there was a curious
expression, almost of alarm. "How extraordinary, - how perfectly
extraordinary!"

"Why extraordinary?" That her cup of humiliation might brim to the full,
resentment was added to confusion. "You consider me unworthy, then, of
having had nobility among my ancestry? But, just the same, there was
nothing strange about it. The colonies were chiefly English, you
remember!" He smiled at her sarcasm. "The duke married one of
Elizabeth's ladies-in-waiting after he went home and there was a younger
son, and he had a younger son, and after a long time one of them came
over to Virginia just like anybody else. They have always been good,
loyal, highly respected American citizens," she told him fiercely, "and
I'm proud of them! Besides - " with reckless emphasis, "I've always felt
so sorry for Wildenai."

But at this point, quite incomprehensibly, Blair broke into peals of
laughter.

"And by and by, after a long, long time, one of these good, loyal,
American citizens that we're both so proud of had a hot-tempered, most
disloyal little daughter who intends to show her employer his proper
place before she dismisses him! But why are you sorry for Wildenai?"

With mischievous eyes he searched her face.

She flushed, then, looking squarely at him, "Because she was impulsive
like me, and just for that reason Lord Harold ran away and left her,"
she said. "He's the only one of them I never had any use for."

Blair wandered the length of the cavern and back before he replied.

"You think him a coward, I suppose." He still looked as though he wanted
to laugh, yet something in his tone seared her outraged pride. He might
as well have touched an iron to quivering flesh. "You ought to remember,
however, - I mean every woman ought to remember, - that when a girl lets
a man know that she cares for him she generally forfeits, then and
there, whatever interest she may have had for him. Wildenai risked too
much. Of course, in her case there was some excuse. She was only an
untrained barbarian. But, under ordinary circumstances, I tell you
there's nothing a man despises so much!"

What was done or said after that Miss Hastings never could have told.
She was possessed of but one desire, - to get away, to go back to the
hotel, - home, anywhere beyond the reach of his voice and his eyes. For
the moment she hated him, and although Blair, conscience smitten at he
knew not what, waited in the lobby a full hour before going in to
dinner, she did not come down.

Up in her room, mechanically brushing her hair for the night, Miss
Hastings stormily addressed the girl in the glass who stared so
scornfully back at her.

"I tell you I don't care a thing about it! He probably thought he was
justified in every word he said. He's probably smiling this very minute
because he thinks he managed it so well! But he's a coward just the
same, and I despise him, - I do despise him!" Her eyes brimming with
tears, she fiercely repeated the word. "Well, he'll soon find out how
much I really meant!"

Over and over she re-lived the short scene, - all of its humiliation,
all of its hurt, seeking at every turn solace for her woman's pride.

"Naturally I wanted to help him all I could, to appear, at least, to be
interested, especially when he was paying so much for it! It was only a
business arrangement anyway," she continued bitterly, "nothing but
business from start to finish, and if he doesn't know that yet, he'll
find it out the very first thing tomorrow morning!"

And having tumbled into bed she lay staring into the dark, planning the
details of a campaign warranted either to cure or kill the enemy.
Outside, a mocking bird, perched provokingly near her window, kept the
night ringing with music. Resolutely she closed her ears to his song.
But presently, through the faint fragrance of oleanders, other sounds
began to penetrate, - the strains of the waltz to which they had danced
only the night before. The little art teacher turned wearily over and
cried herself to sleep.

On the morning which followed she rose very early, however, much too
early to breakfast with Blair at the little table in the sunny corner.
Instead, she ordered some coffee and toast at Jim's Waffle Shop in the
village and was hard at work sketching on the wharf before eight
o'clock. She had suddenly remembered a promise to sketch Capt. Warren's
dog holding the gaff, a feat of which both Pal and his master were
justifiably proud. Indeed, so long had the arrangement been made and so
entirely had it been neglected, that no one was more surprised than the
Captain himself at her unexpected appearance.

"But Pal and me ought to be at the Tuna Club in fifteen minutes, to take
a party o' members out fishin'," he demurred. "You can't paint Pal in no
quarter of an hour!"

"I'm sorry to have had to put it off so long," replied Miss Hastings
crisply, "but I'm planning to go home in a few days now, - this
afternoon probably. It's the only chance I shall have." And she prepared
to make good the belated promise with such determination that, after a
wistful glance or two across the slapping white caps, the old skipper
meekly succumbed.

It was here Blair found her an hour or so later. Unceremoniously he
placed himself in front of her, his hands in his pockets, and gave vent
to a low whistle.

"Well, of all the - !"

"Oh, is it you, Mr. Blair?" she inquired in cool, sweet tones. "I
thought most probably you'd gone! Didn't you say yesterday you intended
to as soon as you'd seen the cavern?" Then, after a pause during which
Blair said nothing, "I've been getting dreadfully behind with my own
work, so I thought, if you didn't mind, I'd try to catch up a little
this morning."

"Certainly not. Take all the time you want! We've about finished anyway,
I guess." His coolness matched her own.

Another silence during which she painted furiously.

"I'm making a sketch of Pal holding the gaff," she ventured at length
when the strain had become too uncomfortable.

"So I see."

This second tentative effort at conversation having flickered and gone
out she bent again to her work, while Blair remained, looking down at
her, in his eyes mingled amusement and resentment. What had he done, he
wondered, to account for such a change? Or, perhaps, it was something he
had not done. He tried again.

"Aren't we going for our ride this morning? It's a glorious day, and I
have the refusal of the two best horses."

"No, I think not, - not this morning, thank you," she answered. In her
voice was the same crisp sweetness. "I haven't time!"

With a shrug of pure bewilderment he backed away, then lingered a moment
longer to watch the sketch take shape beneath her hurrying brush. That
was the particular moment Miss Hastings chose for the final reckless
stab.

"You're standing in my light," she said. "If you'd just as soon, please
do go away, Mr. Blair. It makes me nervous to have people looking over
my shoulder when I'm trying to paint."

This was just a trifle more than Blair at the moment was prepared to
stand. His eyes grew dark.

"Certainly," he replied icily. "So sorry to have bothered you at all. I
only came down to tell you that I've decided to leave today. There's
nothing more to keep me now, I think, and I'm rather anxious to get
home. You'll find your check at the desk." And he sauntered away.

She did not go back to the hotel for luncheon. She had finished her
sketch, yet, somehow, when the time came, she discovered that it would
be quite impossible to enter the dining room. She found it equally
impossible to take the afternoon boat herself. Instead, having clambered
half way up the steep slope to the cavern, she watched from behind a
flaming riot of wild nasturtians while, preceded by a hotel porter
bearing bags and suit-cases, Blair boarded the Avalon for Los Angeles.
He was going away, then, without even a word of farewell.

The heart of the little art teacher turned cold within her, so cold that
she sank numbly into the red and gold tangle; nor did she look up again
until the steamer, dipping below the horizon, had left only a trail of
smoke to show where it disappeared. She had not believed that he would
do quite that!

When evening came she went stoically in to dinner. There was no reason
any longer for staying away. Sternly she kept her eyes from the vacant
place opposite. Yet somehow she could not persuade herself that he was
really gone. More than once she caught herself watching the door, half
expecting to see him stroll in with apologies for tardiness and take his
empty chair. When again the orchestra drifted suddenly into the waltz to
which they had danced, she rose abruptly and left the room.

Well, she would go herself in the morning. She would settle everything
and pack her things at once. She went to the desk to ask for the check.
But there was nothing for her. No, the clerk assured her after much
fumbling, Mr. Blair hadn't left anything, either in her box or his own.
But, - the man stole a covert glance at her downcast face, - he was
still holding his rooms. Probably he meant to attend to it when he
returned.

That he might not see the wild joy that leaped to her eyes, Miss
Hastings turned with startling suddenness and fled upstairs. Safe in her
own room she flung herself with tears and laughter on the bed. So that
was the hand he was playing, was it? - the dear, wicked, unmanageable - !
Of course he would have to be punished, - well punished! but - she
laughed aloud for pure joy - the world was a radiant place once more,
and nothing of any sort really mattered, because he was coming back.

But the next day went by, and the next, and he had not come. Day after
day passed in an empty procession, yet no one of them brought that for
which she waited. And there was nothing else to do. Work was out of the
question. She could not sit still long enough. It became, instead, her
sole occupation to linger each morning and afternoon on the verandah
until the steamer from Los Angeles had rounded the point and crossed the
bay in front of the hotel. Then, hidden behind the palms she would watch
until the last straggling tourist had left the pier. But still he did
not come.

Doubt in every tormenting guise assailed her. Perhaps he had changed his
mind and decided later not to return. Yet the clerk had said he meant to
come back! Perhaps her check, sent by mail, was even now in her box. But
she had not the courage to go again to the desk. Driven by alternate
hope and fear she lost color, and she could not sleep. During seven
miserable nights she planned to go back to Pasadena by the morning boat,
and as many times she put it off. Yet, if he did return to find her
waiting, what, then, would she have given him the right to think? But,
on the other hand, if she went she might never see him again!

On the eighth day she took herself grimly in hand. No longer would she
humiliate herself by any further delay. Wildenai had not waited, and
even a school teacher can be as proud as an Indian princess! That very
afternoon she would finish her sketch of the cavern. Then tomorrow she
would go back to Pasadena and the long gray round of work. Desolately
she wandered up the secret trail to Wildenai's bower. Never had her
sympathy for the deserted princess been so keen. Perhaps, she mournfully
considered, if the spirit of the Indian maiden still lingered there it
might feel sympathy for her as well. Perhaps she, too, would find
comfort in the spot where that other woman had paid an equal price for
her impulsiveness.

The shadows in the little cavern were dark and cool and, laying aside
her box of colors, for a long time she sat quite motionless, staring out
to where the gulls drifted and glinted against the blue. She heard after
a while the whistle of the approaching steamer but gave no heed. Lying
back against the moss she had almost dropped asleep when something in
the corner opposite attracted her attention. She sat up nervously and
stared into the shadows. Was it only that the darkness was deeper over
there, or was that really something propped against the wall? And had it
moved?

In the years that followed she never knew how long she sat there after
the stones had been lifted away, holding in her lap those shreds of torn
white doeskin. Still caught together, though in tatters, by long strings
of shells and beads, they shone, a ghostly film of white from out the
dimness. A breath, and the whole would have crumbled into dust. Yet the
beads, she noticed, were still perfect as when strung by slim brown
fingers centuries before. Only half believing it was not all of it a
dream, she lifted them strand after strand. Then, suddenly, she gave a
little cry. Somewhere from out the torn folds a slender chain had
slipped. Trembling with a curiosity that bordered close on terror, she
carried it to the light, and there it glowed, a glancing stream of
crimson, in her hand.

"Wildenai's necklace!" she breathed, and hid her face.

There came the sound of a step outside. The manzanita branches were
pushed impatiently aside and he stood before her.

The journey across the channel from Los Angeles had seemed twice as long
as when he made it a few weeks before, and he had hurried all the way
from the hotel straight to the little cavern. But now that he had found
her again, there seemed to be plenty of time for everything, and he
stood quite silent looking down at her. He was glad he had found her
there, glad, in a curious, unreasoning way, for the quiet of the late
afternoon, for the faint fragrance of the Mariposa lilies blooming just
beyond the ledge. Yet he let her know nothing of this in what he said.

"So here you are, after all! I thought I should find you here."

She had not heard him come and was startled into a cry.

"You!" she gasped, and lifted eyes in which the telltale signs of tears
were still quite evident, so evident that, with a woman's instinct to
hide them, she caught up the necklace and held it toward him.

"See what I've found!" she exclaimed.

But he paid no heed. Instead, manlike, he proceeded, quite
unconsciously, to say the one thing that could hurt her most.

"I looked for you at the hotel first, then I came on up here. I knew you
wouldn't go till I came!"

The color that had flooded her face at the sound of his voice faded
again. She was quite white as she asked quietly:

"How could you know I would stay?"

He laughed easily, settling himself confidently on the moss at her side.

"Because I hadn't paid you yet," he answered gaily. "Don't you think
that was clever of me, Wildenai?"

"I would rather you did not call me that," she told him coldly, "It
sounds irreverent." And she dropped her eyes, which had filled again
miserably, to the film of white in her lap. Then, with a pitiful attempt
to hurt him in return: "Of course you realize that I really don't know
much about you. I don't want you to think that I distrusted you exactly
- " she marvelled at herself that she could say such things to him, but
went recklessly on. "The check wasn't there, - and so, well, it seemed
wisest to wait. They said you were coming back, and I couldn't afford to
lose it; so I stayed. Just a matter of business, you see!" She finished
in a tone which, except for a suspicious tremble, was satisfactorily
disagreeable.

But Blair's armor, since his return, seemed proof against such thrusts
as she could give.

"Won't play Indian at all, then?" he retorted teasingly. "But of course
not! How could you when you happen to come from the other side of the
house? However," he continued whimsically, "there are such things as
English roses, you know. I've always loved them, too, even when they
were thorny!"

He pulled absently at a fern growing near, while, suddenly, for no
particular reason, the color glowed again in the cheeks of the little
art teacher. She smiled, half unwillingly.

"But don't pull up the wild flowers here," she warned him, "You'll have
the forester after you! When did you get back?" she added. "Where have
you been so long?" burned on her lips, but she scorned to ask it.

"About an hour ago," he replied amiably. "The boat was late."

"I was beginning to think you'd given up coming at all." She could not
keep it back. "The duke never bothered to, you know."

But this blow, like the first, failed to reach any vulnerable spot.
Blair did not flinch.

"No, naturally he didn't! He was English, and you can't depend upon the
English, I've discovered. But there's not the slightest reason for
linking me up with him. The princess never ran away now, did she? And I
- " He paused, then without looking at her he began again.

"Seriously, I'm sorry if I seemed to be deserting. I - well, honestly, I
didn't know what else to do. You suggested it yourself, you remember!
And I'd promised my father to look after some business for him in Los
Angeles while I was out here. You see, he - our family, have lived in
the East for a long time now, but we used to own pretty much all of Los
Angeles county some three centuries ago, when the Spanish were here, and
- " Again he broke off abruptly. "Do you want to know about me?" he
demanded.

Miss Hastings leaned breathlessly toward him. Her heart was beating
wildly.

"Oh, please!" she begged.

"Perhaps I should have told you at the first," he began, "or at least
after you told me who you were, but - anyway, I didn't. I'd never told
anyone before and I didn't much suppose I ever would. There's a reason,
though, why I'm particularly interested in this legend, too, a reason
just as good as you've got. I'm - well, I'm one of Wildenai's great,
great grandsons!"

And then, because she sat quite silent there in the shadows, and
motionless except for fingering something white that lay in her lap, he
waited uneasily. Was she angry again, he wondered, or perhaps she was
only laughing!

She was the first to break the silence.

"Are you trying to be funny?" Her voice was very cold.

"Not at all," he answered hotly. "It must be all of ten generations back
or even more, and of course it wasn't all Spanish afterward, but, just
the same, I'm as much a descendant of the princess as you are of the
duke, - always have been! I'm just as proud of it, too. Possibly you
will remember that the Spanish beat the English to it, at least in
California. Anyway," he finished bitterly, "what difference does it
make? So far as I can see, it only gives us one more good subject to
quarrel about!"

Then out of the dimness came a queer little sound, whether of tears or
of laughter it was impossible to know. For the least part of a second a
hand brushed his own.

"Oh, no!" she whispered, "Let's not do that. It wouldn't be right! And
see," she laughed tremulously, "Isn't it strange I should have found it
today, but," she lifted the white thing in her lap, "here is Wildenai's
wedding dress - and the chain of garnets!"

The cavern was quite dark before they had finished talking about it, but
at length they laid the poor little ghost of a garment reverently back
among the stones and rose to go.

"But the necklace?" Blair asked, hesitating, "do you think we ought to
leave that here?"

The girl considered a moment.

"It's really yours," she decided. "Nobody else could have the least
claim to it."

"Except - " Suddenly his eyes shone with a strange expression before
which the little art teacher instinctively shrank. He took a step toward
her.

"I believe I'll give the garnets back," he announced. "I fancy that's
what the princess would have liked to do if she'd had the chance.
Besides," his eyes grew still darker, "they were meant in the first
place for a wedding gift, and so if you - "

He would have clasped them about her neck, but Miss Hastings backed
frantically away.

"No! - not for worlds," she cried. "You know you're only saying it
because you think you can't get out of it!" And before he could realize
just what was happening, she was gone.



The boat for Los Angeles was unusually crowded that night. For either
this reason, or some other she would not acknowledge, Miss Hastings
found herself pushed aside by more impatient passengers every time she
attempted to enter the gangway.

"All aboard!" called a peremptory voice from somewhere on deck. She took
a step forward, hesitated, drew back. The plank was hauled irrevocably
away, and she turned to face Blair standing just behind her on the
wharf.

"I was sure you wouldn't run away," he declared, "but if you had - !"

She let him lead her back along the broad boardwalk toward the hotel
until they stood within the shadow of the huge boulder which for
centuries has marked the outer boundary of the Bay of Moons. Beyond them
the lights of the St. Catherine glimmered down the hill and on over the
water, rimming with golden bubbles the outlines of the pier.

"Wildenai!" Out of the darkness his voice came to her, mocking, tender,
wholly insistent. "Foolish, obstinate little lady! Can't you see how
it's up to you, - up to the English to make amends? Honestly now, when
he began it I don't imagine even that rascal Drake himself would have
believed a family scrap could last the better part of four centuries.
Don't you really think it's about time for you to call it off?"

And flinging her scruples to the winds, Miss Hastings suddenly decided
that it was.









This eBook was produced by Juliet Sutherland, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.



MARY LOUISE

By

Edith Van Dyne


Author of
"Aunt Jane's Nieces Series"
"The Daring Twins," etc.



TO YOUNG READERS

You will like Mary Louise because she is so much like yourself. Mrs. Van
Dyne has succeeded in finding a very human girl for her heroine; Mary
Louise is really not a fiction character at all. Perhaps you know the
author through her "Aunt Jane's Nieces" stories; then you don't need to
be told that you will want to read all the volumes that will be written
about lovable Mary Louise. Mrs. Van Dyne is recognized as one of the
most interesting writers for girls to-day. Her success is largely due to
the fact that she does not write DOWN to her young readers; she realizes
that the girl of to-day does not have to be babied, and that her quick
mind is able to appreciate stories that are as well planned and cleverly
told as adult fiction.

That is the theory behind "The Bluebird Books." If you are the girl who
likes books of individuality--wholesome without being tiresome, and full
of action without being sensational--then you are just the girl for whom
the series is being written. "Mary Louise" is more than a worthy
successor to the "Aunt Jane's Nieces Series"--it has merit which you
will quickly recognize.

THE PUBLISHERS.




CONTENTS


 I     JUST AN ARGUMENT

II    GRAN'PA JIM

III   A SURPRISE

IV    SHIFTING SANDS

V     OFFICIAL INVESTIGATION

VI    UNDER A CLOUD

VII   THE ESCAPE

VIII  A FRIENDLY FOE

IX    OFFICER O'GORMAN

X     RATHER QUEER INDEED

XI    MARY LOUISE MEETS IRENE

XII   A CHEERFUL COMRADE

XIII  BUB SUCCUMBS TO FORCE

XIV   A CALL FROM AGATHA LORD

XV    BUB'S HOBBY

XVI   THE STOLEN BOOK

XVII  THE HIRED GIRL

XVIII MARY LOUISE GROWS SUSPICIOUS

XIX   AN ARTFUL CONFESSION

XX    DIAMOND CUT DIAMOND

XXI   BAD NEWS

XXII  THE FOLKS AT BIGBEE'S

XXIII A KISS FROM JOSIE

XXIV  FACING THE TRUTH

XXV   SIMPLE JUSTICE

XXVI  THE LETTER



CHAPTER I

JUST AN ARGUMENT


"It's positively cruel!" pouted Jennie Allen, one of a group of girls
occupying a garden bench in the ample grounds of Miss Stearne's School
for Girls, at Beverly.

"It's worse than that; it's insulting," declared Mable Westervelt, her
big dark eyes flashing indignantly.

"Doesn't it seem to reflect on our characters?" timidly asked Dorothy
Knerr.

"Indeed it does!" asserted Sue Finley. "But here comes Mary Louise;
let's ask her opinion."

"Phoo! Mary Louise is only a day scholar," said Jennie. "The restriction
doesn't apply to her at all."

"I'd like to hear what she says, anyhow," remarked Dorothy. "Mary Louise
has a way of untangling things, you know."

"She's rather too officious to suit me," Mable Westervelt retorted, "and
she's younger than any of us. One would think, the way she poses as
monitor at this second-rate, run-down boarding school, that Mary Louise
Burrows made the world."

"Oh, Mable! I've never known her to pose at all," said Sue. "But, hush;
she mustn't overhear us and, besides, if we want her to intercede with
Miss Stearne we must not offend her."

The girl they were discussing came leisurely down a path, her books
under one arm, the other hand holding a class paper which she examined
in a cursory way as she walked. She wore a dark skirt and a simple
shirtwaist, both quite modish and becoming, and her shoes were the
admiration and envy of half the girls at the school. Dorothy Knerr used
to say that "Mary Louise's clothes always looked as if they grew on
her," but that may have been partially accounted for by the grace of her
slim form and her unconscious but distinctive poise of bearing. Few
people would describe Mary Louise Burrows as beautiful, while all would
agree that she possessed charming manners. And she was fifteen--an age
when many girls are both awkward and shy.

As she drew near to the group on the bench they ceased discussing Mary
Louise but continued angrily to canvass their latest grievance.

"What do you think, Mary Louise," demanded Jennie, as the girl paused
before them, "of this latest outrage?"

"What outrage, Jen?" with a whimsical smile at their indignant faces.

"This latest decree of the tyrant Stearne. Didn't you see it posted on
the blackboard this morning? 'The young ladies will hereafter refrain
from leaving the school grounds after the hour of six p.m., unless
written permission is first secured from the Principal. Any infraction
of this rule will result in suspension or permanent dismissal.' We're
determined not to stand for this rule a single minute. We intend to
strike for our liberties."

"Well," said Mary Louise reflectively, "I'm not surprised. The wonder is
that Miss Stearne hasn't stopped your evening parades before now. This
is a small school in a small town, where everyone knows everyone else;
otherwise you'd have been guarded as jealously as if you were in a
convent. Did you ever know or hear of any other private boarding school
where the girls were allowed to go to town evenings, or whenever they
pleased out of school hours?"

"Didn't I tell you?" snapped Mable, addressing the group. "Mary Louise
is always on the wrong side. Other schools are not criterions for this
ramshackle establishment, anyhow. We have twelve boarders and four day
scholars, and how Miss Stearne ever supports the place and herself on
her income is an occult problem that the geometries can't solve. She
pays little Miss Dandler, her assistant, the wages of an ordinary
housemaid; the furniture is old and shabby and the classrooms gloomy;
the food is more nourishing than feastful and the tablecloths are so
patched and darned that it's a wonder they hold together."

Mary Louise quietly seated herself upon the bench beside them.

"You're looking on the seamy side, Mable," she said with a smile, "and
you're not quite just to the school. I believe your parents sent you
here because Miss Stearne is known to be a very competent teacher and
her school has an excellent reputation of long standing. For twenty
years this delightful old place, which was once General Barlow's
residence, has been a select school for young ladies of the best
families. Gran'pa Jim says it's an evidence of good breeding and
respectability to have attended Miss Stearne's school."

"Well, what's that got to do with this insulting order to stay in
evenings?" demanded Sue Finley. "You'd better put all that rot you're
talking into a circular and mail it to the mothers of imbecile
daughters. Miss Stearne has gone a step too far in her tyranny, as
she'll find out. We know well enough what it means. There's no
inducement for us to wander into that little tucked-up town of Beverly
after dinner except to take in the picture show, which is our one
innocent recreation. I'm sure we've always conducted ourselves most
properly. This order simply means we must cut out the picture show and,
if we permit it to stand, heaven only knows what we shall do to amuse
ourselves."

"We'll do something worse, probably," suggested Jennie.

"What's your idea about it, Mary Louise?" asked Dorothy.

"Don't be a prude," warned Mable, glaring at the young girl. "Try to be
honest and sensible--if you can--and give us your advice. Shall we
disregard the order, and do as we please, or be namby-pambies and submit
to the outrage? You're a day scholar and may visit the picture shows as
often as you like. Consider our position, cooped up here like a lot of
chickens and refused the only harmless amusement the town affords."

"Gran'pa Jim," observed Mary Louise, musingly, "always advises me to
look on both sides of a question before making up my mind, because every
question has to have two sides or it couldn't be argued. If Miss Stearne
wishes to keep you away from the pictures, she has a reason for it; so
let's discover what the reason is."

"To spoil any little fun we might have," asserted Mable bitterly.

"No; I can't believe that," answered Mary Louise. "She isn't unkindly,
we all know, nor is she too strict with her girls. I've heard her remark
that all her boarders are young ladies who can be trusted to conduct
themselves properly on all occasions; and she's right about that. We
must look for her reason somewhere else and I think it's in the pictures
themselves."

"As for that," said Jennie, "I've seen Miss Stearne herself at the
picture theatre twice within the last week."

"Then that's it; she doesn't like the character of the pictures shown. I
think, myself, girls, they've been rather rank lately."

"What's wrong with them?"

"I like pictures as well as you do," said Mary Louise, "and Gran'pa Jim
often takes me to see them. Tuesday night a man shot another in cold
blood and the girl the murderer was in love with helped him to escape
and married him. I felt like giving her a good shaking, didn't you? She
didn't act like a real girl at all. And Thursday night the picture story
told of a man with two wives and of divorces and disgraceful doings
generally. Gran'pa Jim took me away before it was over and I was glad to
go. Some of the pictures are fine and dandy, but as long as the man who
runs the theatre mixes the horrid things with the decent ones--and we
can't know beforehand which is which--it's really the safest plan to
keep away from the place altogether. I'm sure that's the position Miss
Stearne takes, and we can't blame her for it. If we do, it's an evidence
of laxness of morals in ourselves."

The girls received this statement sullenly, yet they had no logical
reply to controvert it. So Mary Louise, feeling that her explanation of
the distasteful edict was not popular with her friends, quietly rose and
sauntered to the gate, on her way home.

"Pah!" sneered Mable Westervelt, looking after the slim figure, "I'm
always suspicious of those goody-goody creatures. Mark my words, girls:
Mary Louise will fall from her pedestal some day. She isn't a bit better
than the rest of us, in spite of her angel baby ways, and I wouldn't be
surprised if she turned out to be a regular hypocrite!"




CHAPTER II

GRAN'PA JIM


Beverly is an old town and not especially progressive. It lies nearly
two miles from a railway station and has little attractiveness for
strangers. Beverly contains several beautiful old residences, however,
built generations ago and still surrounded by extensive grounds where
the trees and shrubbery are now generally overgrown and neglected.

One of these fine old places Miss Stearne rented for her boarding
school; another, quite the most imposing residence in the town, had been
leased some two years previous to the time of this story by Colonel
James Weatherby, whose family consisted of his widowed daughter, Mrs.
Burrows, and his grandchild, Mary Louise Burrows. Their only servants
were an old negro, Uncle Eben, and his wife, Aunt Polly, who were
Beverly bred and had been hired when the Colonel first came to town and
took possession of the stately Vandeventer mansion.

Colonel Weatherby was a man of exceptionally distinguished appearance,
tall and dignified, with courtly manners and an air of prosperity that
impressed the simple villagers with awe. His snow-white hair and
piercing dark eyes, his immaculate dress upon all occasions, the
whispered comments on his ample deposits in the local bank, all
contributed to render him remarkable among the three or four hundred
ordinary inhabitants of Beverly, who, after his two years' residence
among them, scarcely knew more of him than is above related. For Colonel
Weatherby was an extremely reserved man and seldom deigned to exchange
conversation with his neighbors. In truth, he had nothing in common with
them and even when he walked out with Mary Louise he merely acknowledged
the greeting of those he met by a dignified nod of his stately head.

With Mary Louise, however, he would converse fluently and with
earnestness, whether at home during the long evenings or on their
frequent walks through the country, which were indulged in on Saturdays
and holidays during the months that school was in session and much more
often during vacations. The Colonel owned a modest automobile which he
kept in the stable and only drove on rare occasions, although one of
Uncle Eben's duties was to keep the car in apple-pie order. Colonel
Weatherby loved best to walk and Mary Louise enjoyed their tramps
together because Gran'pa Jim always told her so many interesting things
and was such a charming companion. He often developed a strain of humor
in the girl's society and would relate anecdotes that aroused in her
spontaneous laughter, for she possessed a keen sense of the ludicrous.
Yes, Gran'pa Jim was really funny, when in the mood, and as jolly a
comrade as one would wish.

He was fond of poetry, too, and the most severe trial Mary Louise was
forced to endure was when he carried a book of poems in his pocket and
insisted on reading from it while they rested in a shady nook by the
roadside or on the bank of the little river that flowed near by the
town. Mary Louise had no soul for poetry, but she would have endured far
greater hardships rather than forfeit the genial companionship of
Gran'pa Jim.

It was only during these past two years that she had come to know her
grandfather so intimately and to become as fond of him as she was proud.
Her earlier life had been one of so many changes that the constant
shifting had rather bewildered her. First she remembered living in a big
city house where she was cared for by a nurse who was never out of sight
or hearing. There it was that "Mamma Bee"--Mrs. Beatrice Burrows--
appeared to the child at times as a beautiful vision and often as she
bent over her little daughter for a good-night kiss the popular society
woman, arrayed in evening or ball costume, would seem to Mary Louise
like a radiant angel descended straight from heaven.

She knew little of her mother in those days, which were quite hazy in
memory because she was so young. The first change she remembered was an
abrupt flitting from the splendid city house to a humble cottage in a
retired village. There was no maid now, nor other servant whatever.
Mamma Bee did the cooking and sweeping, her face worn and anxious, while
Gran'pa Jim walked the floor of the little sitting room day by day, only
pausing at times to read to Mary Louise stories from her nursery books.

This life did not last very long--perhaps a year or so--and then they
were in a big hotel in another city, reached after a long and tiresome
railway journey. Here the girl saw little of her grandfather, for a
governess came daily to teach Mary Louise to read and write and to do
sums on a pretty slate framed in silver. Then, suddenly, in dead of
night, away they whisked again, traveling by train until long after the
sun was up, when they came to a pretty town where they kept house again.

There were servants, this time, and horses and carriages and pretty
clothes for Mary Louise and Mamma Bee. The little girl was sent to a
school just a block away from her home. She remembered Miss Jenkins
well, for this teacher made much of her and was so kind and gentle that
Mary Louise progressed rapidly in her studies.

But the abrupt changes did not end here. Mary Louise came home from
school one afternoon and found her dear mother sobbing bitterly as she
clung around the neck of Gran'pa Jim, who stood in the middle of the
room as still as if he had been a marble statue. Mary Louise promptly
mingled her tears with those of her mother, without knowing why, and
then there was a quick "packing-up" and a rush to the railway again.

Next they were in the house of Mr. and Mrs. Peter Conant, very pleasant
people who seemed to be old friends of Mamma Bee and Gran'pa Jim. It was
a cosy house, not big and pretentious, and Mary Louise liked it. Peter
Conant and Gran'pa Jim had many long talks together, and it was here
that the child first heard her grandfather called "Colonel." Others
might have called him that before, but she had not heard them. Mrs.
Conant was very deaf and wore big spectacles, but she always had a smile
on her face and her voice was soft and pleasing.

After a few days Mamma Bee told her daughter she was going to leave her
in the care of the Conants for a time, while she traveled to a foreign
country with Gran'pa Jim. The girl was surprised at being abandoned but
accepted her fate quietly when it was explained that she was to go to
school while living with the Conants, which she could not do if she was
traveling with her mother and grandfather, who were making this
arrangement for the girl's best good.

Three years Mary Louise lived with the Conants and had little to
complain of. Mr. Conant was a lawyer and was at his office all day,
while Mrs. Conant was very kind to the girl and looked after her welfare
with motherly care.

At last, quite unexpectedly, Mary Louise's trunk was packed and she was
taken to the station to meet a train on which were her mother and
grandfather. They did not leave the cars except to shake hands with the
Conants and thank them for their care of Mary Louise. A moment later the
train bore away the reunited family to their new home in Beverly.

Mary Louise now found she must "get acquainted" with Mamma Bee and
Gran'pa Jim all over again, for during these last three years she had
developed so fast in mind and body that her previous knowledge of her
relatives seemed like a hazy dream. The Colonel also discovered a new
granddaughter, to whom he became passionately attached. For two years
now they had grown together until they were great friends and cronies.

As for Mrs. Burrows, she seemed to have devoted her whole life to her
father, the Colonel. She had lost much of her former beauty and had
become a thin, pale woman with anxious eyes and an expectant and
deprecating air, as if always prepared to ward off a sudden blow. Her
solicitude for the old Colonel was almost pathetic and while he was in
her presence she constantly hovered around him, doing little things for
his comfort which he invariably acknowledged with his courtly bow and a
gracious word of thanks.

It was through her association with this cultured old gentleman that
Mary Louise had imbibed a certain degree of logic and philosophy unknown
to many girls of fifteen. He taught her consideration for others as the
keynote of happiness, yet he himself declined to mingle with his fellow
men. He abhorred sulking and was always cheerful and pleasant in his
home circle, yet when others approached him familiarly he resented it
with a frown. He taught his granddaughter to be generous to the poor and
supplied her freely with money for charity, yet he personally refused
all demands upon him by churches or charitable societies.

In their long talks together he displayed an intimate acquaintance with
men and affairs, but never referred in any way to his former life.

"Are you really a colonel?" Mary Louise once asked him.

"Men call me so," he replied, but there was a tone in his voice that
warned the girl not to pursue the subject further. She knew his moods
almost as well as her mother did.

The Colonel was very particular as to dress. He obtained his own
clothing from a New York tailor and took a keen interest in the gowns of
his daughter and of Mary Louise, his taste in female apparel being so
remarkable that they were justly considered the best dressed women in
Beverly. The house they were living in contained an excellent library
and was furnished in a quaint, old-fashioned manner that was very
appealing to them all. Mary Louise sincerely hoped there would be no
more changes in their lives and that they might continue to live in
Beverly for many years to come.




CHAPTER III

A SURPRISE


On the afternoon when our story begins Mary Louise walked home from
school and found Colonel Weatherby waiting for her in the garden,
leggings strapped to his gaunt legs, the checked walking-cap on his
head, a gold-headed crop in his hand.

"Let us go for a walk, my dear," he proposed. "It is Friday, so you will
have all day to-morrow in which to get your lessons."

"Oh, it won't take all day for that," she replied with a laugh. "I'll be
glad of the walk. "Where shall we go, Gran'pa Jim?"

"Perhaps to the mill-race. We haven't visited it for a long time."

She ran to the house to put away her books and get her stout shoes, and
presently rejoined him, when together they strolled up the street and
circled round the little town until they came to the river bank. Then
they followed the stream toward the old mill.

Mary Louise told her grandfather of the recent edict of Miss Stearne and
the indignation it had aroused in her girl boarders.

"And what do you think of it, Gran'pa Jim?" she asked in conclusion.

"What do YOU think of it, Mary Louise?"

"It is rather hard on the girls, who have enjoyed their liberty for so
long; but I think it is Miss Stearne's plan to keep them away from the
picture theatre."

"And so?"

"And so," she said, "it may do the girls more good than harm."

He smiled approvingly. It was his custom to draw out her ideas on all
questions, rather than to assert his own in advance. If he found her
wrong or misinformed he would then correct her and set her right.

"So you do not approve of the pictures, Mary Louise?"

"Not all of them, Gran'pa Jim, although they all seem to have been
'passed by the Board of Censors'--perhaps when their eyes were shut. I
love the good pictures, and I know that you do, but some we have seen
lately gave me the shivers. So, perhaps Miss Stearne is right."

"I am confident she is," he agreed. "Some makers of pictures may
consider it beneficial to emphasize good by exhibiting evil, by way of
contrast, but they are doubtless wrong. I've an old-fashioned notion
that young girls should be shielded, as much as possible, from knowledge
of the world's sins and worries, which is sure to be impressed upon them
in later years. We cannot ignore evil, unfortunately, but we can often
avoid it."

"But why, if these pictures are really harmful, does Mr. Welland exhibit
them at his theatre?" asked the girl.

"Mr. Welland is running his theatre to make money," explained the
Colonel," and the surest way to make money is to cater to the tastes of
his patrons, the majority of whom demand picture plays of the more vivid
sort, such as you and I complain of. So the fault lies not with the
exhibitor but with the sensation-loving public. If Mr. Welland showed
only such pictures as have good morals he would gain the patronage of
Miss Stearne's twelve young ladies, and a few others, but the masses
would refuse to support him."

"Then," said Mary Louise, "the masses ought to be educated to desire
better things."

"Many philanthropists have tried to do that, and signally failed. I
believe the world is gradually growing better, my dear, but ages will
pass before mankind attains a really wholesome mental atmosphere.
However, we should each do our humble part toward the moral uplift of
our fellows and one way is not to condone what we know to be wrong."

He spoke earnestly, in a conversational tone that robbed his words of
preachment. Mary Louise thought Gran'pa Jim must be an exceptionally
good man and hoped she would grow, in time, to be like him. The only
thing that puzzled her was why he refused to associate with his fellow
men, while at heart he so warmly espoused their uplift and advancement.

They had now reached the mill-race and had seated themselves on the high
embankment where they could watch the water swirl swiftly beneath them.
The mill was not grinding to-day and its neighborhood seemed quite
deserted. Here the old Colonel and his granddaughter sat dreamily for a
long time, conversing casually on various subjects or allowing
themselves to drift into thought. It was a happy hour for them both and
was only interrupted when Jackson the miller passed by on his way home
from the village. The man gave the Colonel a surly nod, but he smiled on
Mary Louise, the girl being as popular in the district as her
grandfather was unpopular.

After Jackson had passed them by Gran'pa Jim rose slowly and proposed
they return home.

"If we go through the village," said he, "we shall reach home, without
hurrying ourselves, in time to dress for dinner. I object to being
hurried, don't you, Mary Louise?"

"Yes, indeed, if it can be avoided."

Going through the village saved them half a mile in distance, but Mary
Louise would not have proposed it herself, on account of the Colonel's
well-known aversion to meeting people. This afternoon, however, he made
the proposal himself, so they strolled away to the main road that led
through the one business street of the little town.

At this hour there was little life in Beverly's main street. The farmers
who drove in to trade had now returned home; the town women were busy
getting supper and most of their men were at home feeding the stock or
doing the evening chores. However, they passed an occasional group of
two or three and around the general store stood a few other natives,
listlessly awaiting the call to the evening meal. These cast curious
glances at the well-known forms of the old man and the young girl, for
his two years' residence had not made the testy old Colonel any less
strange to them. They knew all about him there was to know--which was
nothing at all--and understood they must not venture to address him as
they would have done any other citizen.

Cooper's Hotel, a modest and not very inviting frame building, stood
near the center of the village and as Mary Louise and her grandfather
passed it the door opened and a man stepped out and only avoided bumping
into them by coming to a full stop. They stopped also, of necessity, and
Mary Louise was astonished to find the stranger staring into the
Colonel's face with an expression of mingled amazement and incredulity
on his own.

"James Hathaway, by all the gods!" he exclaimed, adding in wondering
tones: "And after all these years!"

Mary Louise, clinging to her grandfather's arm, cast an upward glance at
his face. It was tensely drawn; the eyelids were half closed and through
their slits the Colonel's eyes glinted fiercely.

"You are mistaken, fellow. Out of my way!" he said, and seizing the
girl's arm, which she had withdrawn in affright, he marched straight
ahead. The man fell back, but stared after them with his former
expression of bewildered surprise. Mary Louise noted this in a glance
over her shoulder and something in the stranger's attitude--was it a
half veiled threat?--caused her to shudder involuntarily.

The Colonel strode on, looking neither to right nor left, saying never a
word. They reached their home grounds, passed up the path in silence and
entered the house. The Colonel went straight to the stairs and cried in
a loud voice:

"Beatrice!"

The tone thrilled Mary Louise with a premonition of evil. A door was
hastily opened and her mother appeared at the head of the stairs,
looking down on them with the customary anxiety on her worn features
doubly accentuated.

"Again, father?" she asked in a voice that slightly trembled.

"Yes. Come with me to the library, Beatrice."




CHAPTER IV

SHIFTING SANDS


Mary Louise hid herself in the drawing-room, where she could watch the
closed door of the library opposite. At times she trembled with an
unknown dread; again, she told herself that no harm could possibly
befall her dear, good Gran'pa Jim or her faithful, loving mother. Yet
why were they closeted in the library so long, and how could the meeting
with that insolent stranger affect Colonel Weatherby so strongly?

After a long time her mother came out, looking more pallid and harassed
than ever but strangely composed. She kissed Mary Louise, who came to
meet her, and said:

"Get ready for dinner, dear. We are late."

The girl went to her room, dazed and uneasy. At dinner her mother
appeared at the table, eating little or nothing, but Gran'pa Jim was not
present. Afterward she learned that he had gone over to Miss Stearne's
School for Girls, where he completed important arrangements concerning
his granddaughter.

When dinner was over Mary Louise went into the library and, drawing a
chair to where the light of the student lamp flooded her book, tried to
read. But the words were blurred and her mind was in a sort of chaos.
Mamma Bee had summoned Aunt Polly and Uncle Eben to her room, where she
was now holding a conference with the faithful colored servants. A
strange and subtle atmosphere of unrest pervaded the house; Mary Louise
scented radical changes in their heretofore pleasant home life, but what
these changes were to be or what necessitated them she could not
imagine.

After a while she heard Gran'pa Jim enter the hall and hang up his hat
and coat and place his cane in the rack. Then he came to the door of the
library and stood a moment looking hard at Mary Louise. Her own eyes
regarded her grandfather earnestly, questioning him as positively as if
she had spoken.

He drew a chair before her and leaning over took both her hands in his
and held them fast.

"My dear," he said gently, "I regret to say that another change has
overtaken us. Have you ever heard of 'harlequin fate'? 'Tis a very
buffoon of mischief and irony that is often permitted to dog our earthly
footsteps and prevent us from becoming too content with our lot. For a
time you and I, little maid, good comrades though we have been, must
tread different paths. Your mother and I are going away, presently, and
we shall leave you here in Beverly, where you may continue your studies
under the supervision of Miss Stearne, as a boarder at her school. This
house, although the rental is paid for six weeks longer, we shall at
once vacate, leaving Uncle Eben and Aunt Sallie to put it in shape and
close it properly. Do you understand all this, Mary Louise?"

"I understand what you have told me, Gran'pa Jim. But why--"

"Miss Stearne will be supplied with ample funds to cover your tuition
and to purchase any supplies you may need. You will have nothing to
worry about and so may devote all your energies to your studies."

"But how long---"

"Trust me and your mother to watch over your welfare, for you are very
dear to us, believe me," he continued, disregarding her interruptions.
"Do you remember the address of the Conants, at Dorfield?"

"Of course."

"Well, you may write to me, or to your mother, once a week, addressing
the letter in care of Peter Conant. But if you are questioned by
anyone," he added, gravely, "do not mention the address of the Conants
or hint that I have gone to Dorfield. Write your letters privately and
unobserved, in your own room, and post them secretly, by your own hand,
so that no one will be aware of the correspondence. Your caution in this
regard will be of great service to your mother and me. Do you think you
can follow these instructions?"

"To be sure I can, Gran'pa Jim. But why must I---"

"Some day," said he, "you will understand this seeming mystery and be
able to smile at your present perplexities. There is nothing to fear, my
dear child, and nothing that need cause you undue anxiety. Keep a brave
heart and, whatever happens, have faith in Gran'pa Jim. Your mother--as
good a woman as God ever made--believes in me, and she knows all. Can
you accept her judgment, Mary Louise? Can you steadfastly ignore any
aspersions that may be cast upon my good name?"

"Yes, Gran'pa Jim."

She had not the faintest idea what he referred to. Not until afterward
was she able to piece these strange remarks together and make sense of
them. Just now the girl was most impressed by the fact that her mother
and grandfather were going away and would leave her as a boarder with
Miss Stearne. The delightful home life, wherein she had passed the
happiest two years of her existence, was to be broken up for good and
all.

"Now I must go to your mother. Kiss me, my dear!"

As he rose to his feet Mary Louise also sprang from her chair and the
Colonel folded his arms around her and for a moment held her tight in
his embrace. Then he slowly released her, holding the girl at arms'
length while he studied her troubled face with grave intensity. One kiss
upon her upturned forehead and the old man swung around and left the
room without another word.

Mary Louise sank into her chair, a little sob in her throat. She felt
very miserable, indeed, at that moment. "Harlequin fate!" she sighed. "I
wonder why it has chosen us for its victims?"

After an hour passed in the deserted library she stole away to her own
room and prepared for bed. In the night, during her fitful periods of
sleep, she dreamed that her mother bent over her and kissed her lips--
once, twice, a third time.

The girl woke with a start. A dim light flooded her chamber, for outside
was a full moon. But the room was habited only by shadows, save for her
own feverish, restless body. She turned over to find a cooler place and
presently fell asleep again.




CHAPTER V

OFFICIAL INVESTIGATION


"And you say they are gone?" cried Mary Louise in surprise, as she came
down to breakfast the next morning and found the table laid for one and
old Eben waiting to serve her.

"In de night, chile. I don' know 'zac'ly wha' der time, by de clock, but
de Kun'l an' Missy Burrows did'n' sleep heah a-tall."

"There is no night train," said the girl, seating herself thoughtfully
at the table. "How could they go, Uncle?"

"Jus' took deh auto'bile, chile, an' de Kun'l done druv it heself--bag
an' baggage. But--see heah, Ma'y 'Ouise--we-all ain' s'pose to know
nuth'n' bout dat git-away. Ef some imper'nent puss'n' ask us, we ain'
gwine t' know how dey go, nohow. De Kun'l say tell Ma'y 'Ouise she ain'
gwine know noth'n' a-tall, 'bout nuth'n', 'cause 'tain't nobody's
business."

"I understand, Uncle Eben."

She reflected upon this seemingly unnecessary secrecy as she ate her
breakfast. After a time she asked:

"What are you and Aunt Polly going to do, Uncle?"

"Fus' thing," replied the old negro, "Polly gwine git yo' traps all pack
up an' I gwine take 'em ovah to Missy Stearne's place in de wheel-
barrer. Den I gwine red up de house an' take de keys to Mass' Gimble, de
agent. Den Polly an' me we go back to our own li'l' house in de lane
yondeh. De Kun'l done 'range ev'thing propeh, an' we gwine do jus' like
he say."

Mary Louise felt lonely and uncomfortable in the big house, now that her
mother and grandfather had gone away. Since the move was inevitable, she
would be glad to go to Miss Stearne as soon as possible. She helped Aunt
Polly pack her trunk and suit case, afterwards gathering into a bundle
the things she had forgotten or overlooked, all of which personal
belongings Uncle Eben wheeled over to the school. Then she bade the
faithful servitors good-bye, promising to call upon them at their humble
home, and walked slowly over the well-known path to Miss Stearne's
establishment, where she presented herself to the principal.

It being Saturday, Miss Stearne was seated at a desk in her own private
room, where she received Mary Louise and bade her sit down.

Miss Stearne was a woman fifty years of age, tall and lean, with a
deeply lined face and a tendency to nervousness that was increasing with
her years. She was a very clever teacher and a very incompetent business
woman, so that her small school, of excellent standing and repute,
proved difficult to finance. In character Miss Stearne was temperamental
enough to have been a genius. She was kindly natured, fond of young
girls and cared for her pupils with motherly instincts seldom possessed
by those in similar positions. She was lax in many respects, severely
strict in others. Not always were her rules and regulations dictated by
good judgment. Therefore her girls usually found as much fault as other
boarding school girls are prone to do, and with somewhat more reason. On
the other hand, no one could question the principal's erudition or her
skill in imparting her knowledge to others.

"Sit down, Mary Louise," she said to the girl. "This is an astonishing
change in your life, is it not? Colonel Weatherby came to me last
evening and said he had been suddenly called away on important matters
that would brook no delay, and that your mother was to accompany him on
the journey. He begged me to take you in as a regular boarder and of
course I consented. You have been one of my most tractable and
conscientious pupils and I have been proud of your progress. But the
school is quite full, as you know; so at first I was uncertain that I
could accommodate you here; but Miss Dandler, my assistant, has given up
her room to you and I shall put a bed for her in my own sleeping
chamber, so that difficulty is now happily arranged. I suppose your
family left Beverly this morning, by the early train?"

"They have gone," replied Mary Louise, non-committally.

"You will be lonely for a time, of course, but presently you will feel
quite at home in the school because you know all of my girls so well. It
is not like a strange girl coming into a new school. And remember, Mary
Louise, that you are to come to me for any advice and assistance you
need, for I promised your grandfather that I would fill your mother's
place as far as I am able to do so."

Mary Louise reflected, with a little shock of pain, that her mother had
never been very near to her and that Miss Stearne might well perform
such perfunctory duties as the girl had been accustomed to expect. But
no one could ever take the place of Gran'pa Jim.

"Thank you, Miss Stearne," she said. "I am sure I shall be quite
contented here. Is my room ready?"

"Yes; and your trunk has already been placed in it. Let me know, my
dear, if there is anything you need."

Mary Louise went to her room and was promptly pounced upon by Dorothy
Knerr and Sue Finley, who roomed just across the hall from her and were
delighted to find she was to become a regular boarder. They asked
numerous questions as they helped her to unpack and settle her room, but
accepted her conservative answers without comment.

At the noon luncheon Mary Louise was accorded a warm reception by the
assembled boarders and this cordial welcome by her school-mates did much
to restore the girl to her normal condition of cheerfulness. She even
joined a group in a game of tennis after luncheon and it was while she
was playing that little Miss Dandler came with, a message that Mary
Louise was wanted in Miss Stearne's room at once.

"Take my racquet," she said to Jennie Allen; "I'll be back in a minute."

When she entered Miss Stearne's room she was surprised to find herself
confronted by the same man whom she and her grandfather had encountered
in front of Cooper's Hotel the previous afternoon--the man whom she
secretly held responsible for this abrupt change in her life. The
principal sat crouched over her desk as if overawed by her visitor, who
stopped his nervous pacing up and down the room as the girl appeared.

"This is Mary Louise Burrows," said Miss Stearne, in a weak voice.

"Huh!" He glared at her with a scowl for a moment and then demanded:
"Where's Hathaway?"

Mary Louise reddened.

"I do not know to whom you refer," she answered quietly.

"Aren't you his granddaughter?"

"I am the granddaughter of Colonel James Weatherby, sir."

"It's all the same; Hathaway or Weatherby, the scoundrel can't disguise
his personality. Where is he?"

She did not reply. Her eyes had narrowed a little, as the Colonel's were
sometimes prone to do, and her lips were pressed firmly together.

"Answer me!" he shouted, waving his arms threateningly.

"Miss Stearne," Mary Louise said, turning to the principal, "unless you
request your guest to be more respectful I shall leave the room."

"Not yet you won't," said the man in a less boisterous tone. "Don't
annoy me with your airs, for I'm in a hurry. Where is Hathaway--or
Weatherby--or whatever he calls himself?"

"I do not know."

"You don't, eh? Didn't he leave an address?"

"No."

"I don't believe you. Where did he go?"

"If I knew," said Mary Louise with dignity, "I would not inform you."

He uttered a growl and then threw back his coat, displaying a badge
attached to his vest.

"I'm a federal officer," he asserted with egotistic pride, "a member of
the Government's Secret Service Department. I've been searching for
James J. Hathaway for nine years, and so has every man in the service.
Last night I stumbled upon him by accident, and on inquiring found he
has been living quietly in this little jumping-off place. I wired the
Department for instructions and an hour ago received orders to arrest
him, but found my bird had flown. He left you behind, though, and I'm
wise to the fact that you're a clew that will lead me straight to him.
You're going to do that very thing, and the sooner you make up your mind
to it the better for all of us. No nonsense, girl! The Federal
Government's not to be trifled with. Tell me where to find your
grandfather."

"If you have finished your insolent remarks," she answered with spirit,
"I will go away. You have interrupted my game of tennis."

He gave a bark of anger that made her smile, but as she turned away he
sprang forward and seized her arm, swinging her around so that she again
faced him.

"Great Caesar, girl! Don't you realize what you're up against?" he
demanded.

"I do," said she. "I seem to be in the power of a brute. If a law exists
that permits you to insult a girl, there must also be a law to punish
you. I shall see a lawyer and try to have you properly punished for this
absolute insolence."

He regarded her keenly, still frowning, but when he spoke again he had
moderated both his tone and words.

"I do not intend to be insolent, Miss Burrows, but I have been greatly
aggravated by your grandfather's unfortunate escape and in this
emergency every moment is precious if I am to capture him before he gets
out of America, as he has done once or twice before. Also, having wired
the Department that I have found Hathaway, I shall be discredited if I
let him slip through my fingers, so I am in a desperate fix. If I have
seemed a bit gruff and nervous, forgive me. It is your duty, as a loyal
subject of the United States, to assist an officer of the law by every
means in your power, especially when he is engaged in running down a
criminal. Therefore, whether you dislike to or not, you must tell me
where to find your grandfather."

"My grandfather is not a criminal, sir."

"The jury will decide that when his case comes to trial. At present he
is accused of crime and a warrant is out for his arrest. Where is he?"

"I do not know," she persisted.

"He--he left by the morning train, which goes west," stammered Miss
Stearne, anxious to placate the officer and fearful of the girl's
stubborn resistance.

"So the nigger servant told me," sneered the man; "but he didn't. I was
at the station myself--two miles from this forsaken place--to make sure
that Hathaway didn't skip while I was waiting for orders. Therefore, he
is either hidden somewhere in Beverly or he has sneaked away to an
adjoining town. The old serpent is slippery as an eel; but I'm going to
catch him, this time, as sure as fate, and this girl must give me all
the information she can."

"Oh, that will be quite easy," retorted Mary Louise, somewhat
triumphantly, "for I have no information to divulge."

He began to pace the room again, casting at her shrewd and uncertain
glances.

"He didn't say where he was going?"

"No."

"Or leave any address?"

"No."

"What DID he say?"

"That he was going away and would arrange with Miss Stearne for me to
board at the school."

"Huh! I see. Foxy old guy. Knew I would question you and wouldn't take
chances. If he writes you, or you learn what has become of him, will you
tell me?"

"No."

"I thought not." He turned toward the principal. How about this girl's
board money?" he asked. "When did he say he'd send it?"

"He paid me in advance, to the end of the present term," answered the
agitated Miss Stearne.

"Foxy old boy! Seemed to think of everything. I'm going, now; but take
this warning--both of you. Don't gabble about what I've said. Keep the
secret. If nothing gets out, Hathaway may think the coast is clear and
it's safe for him to come back. In that case I--or someone appointed by
the Department--will get a chance to nab him. That's all. Good day."

He made his exit from the room without ceremony, leaving Mary Louise and
Miss Stearne staring fearfully at one another.

"It--it's--dreadful!" stammered the teacher, shrinking back with a moan.

"It would be, if it were true," said the girl. "But Gran'pa Jim is no
criminal, we all know. He's the best man that ever lived, and the whole
trouble is that this foolish officer has mistaken him for someone else.
I heard him, with my own ears, tell the man he was mistaken."

Miss Stearne reflected.

"Then why did your grandfather run away?" she asked.

It was now Mary Louise's turn to reflect, seeking an answer. Presently
she realized that a logical explanation of her grandfather's action was
impossible with her present knowledge.

"I cannot answer that question, Miss Stearne," she admitted, candidly,
"but Gran'pa Jim must have had some good reason."

There was unbelief in the woman's eyes--unbelief and a horror of the
whole disgraceful affair that somehow included Mary Louise in its scope.
The girl read this look and it confused her. She mumbled an excuse and
fled to her room to indulge in a good cry.




CHAPTER VI

UNDER A CLOUD


The officer's injunction not to talk of the case of Colonel Weatherby
was of little avail in insuring secrecy. Oscar Dowd, who owned and
edited the one weekly newspaper in town, which appeared under the title
of "The Beverly Beacon," was a very ferret for news. He had to be;
otherwise there never would have been enough happenings in the vicinity
to fill the scant columns of his little paper, which was printed in big
type to make the items and editorials fill as much space as possible.

Uncle Eben met the editor and told him the Colonel had gone away
suddenly and had vacated the Vandeventer mansion and put Mary Louise
with Miss Stearne to board. Thereat, Oscar Dowd scented "news" and
called on Miss Stearne for further information. The good lady was almost
as much afraid of an editor as of an officer of the law, so under
Oscar's rapid-fire questioning she disclosed more of the dreadful charge
against Colonel Weatherby than she intended to. She even admitted the
visit of the secret service agent, but declined to give details of it.

Oscar found the agent had departed for parts unknown--perhaps to trail
the escaped Colonel--but the hotel keeper furnished him with other wisps
of information and, bunching all the rumors together and sifting the
wheat from the chaff, the editor evolved a most thrilling tale to print
in the Wednesday paper. Some of the material his own imagination
supplied; much else was obtained from irresponsible gossips who had no
foundation for their assertions. Miss Stearne was horrified to find, on
receiving her copy of the Wednesday "Beacon" that big headlines across
the front page announced: "Beverly Harbors a Criminal in Disguise!
Flight of Colonel James Weatherby when a Federal Officer Seeks to Arrest
him for a Terrible Crime!"

Then followed a mangled report of the officer's visit to Beverly on
government business, his recognition of Colonel Weatherby--who was none
other than the noted criminal, James J. Hathaway--on the street in front
of Cooper's Hotel, how the officer wired Washington for instructions and
how Hathaway, alias Weatherby, escaped in the dead of night and had so
far successfully eluded all pursuit. What crime Hathaway, alias
Weatherby, was accused of, the officer would not divulge, and the
statements of others disagreed. One report declared the Colonel had
wrecked a New York bank and absconded with enormous sums he had
embezzled; another stated he had been president of a swindling stock
corporation which had used the mails illegally to further its nefarious
schemes. A third account asserted he had insured his life for a million
dollars in favor of his daughter, Mrs. Burrows, and then established a
false death and reappeared after Mrs. Burrows had collected the
insurance money.

Having printed all this prominently in big type, the editor appended a
brief note in small type saying he would not vouch for the truth of any
statement made in the foregoing article. Nevertheless, it was a terrible
arraignment and greatly shocked the good citizens of Beverly.

Miss Stearne, realizing how humiliated Mary Louise would be if the
newspaper fell into her hands, carefully hid her copy away where none of
the girls could see it; but one of the day scholars brought a copy to
the school Thursday morning and passed it around among the girls, so
that all were soon in possession of the whole scandalous screed.

Mable Westervelt, after feasting upon the awful accusations, cruelly
handed the paper to Mary Louise. The girl's face blanched and then grew
red, her mouth fell open as if gasping for breath and her eyes stared
with a pained, hopeless expression at the printed page that branded her
dearly loved Gran'pa Jim a swindler and a thief. She rose quickly and
left the room, to the great relief of the other girls, who wanted to
talk the matter over.

"The idea," cried Mable indignantly, "of that old villain's foisting his
grandchild on this respectable school while he ran away to escape the
penalty of his crimes!"

"Mary Louise is all right," asserted Jennie Allen stoutly. "She isn't to
blame, at all."

"I warned you that her goody-goody airs were a cloak to hidden
wickedness," said Mable, tossing her head.

"Blood will tell," drawled Lina Darrow, a very fat girl. "Mary Louise
has bad blood in her veins and it's bound to crop out, sooner or later.
I advise you girls to keep your trunks locked and to look after your
jewelry."

"Shame--shame!" cried Dorothy Knerr, and the others echoed the reproach.
Even Mable looked at fat Lina disapprovingly.

However, in spite of staunch support on the part of her few real
friends, Mary Louise felt from that hour a changed atmosphere when in
the presence of her school fellows. Weeks rolled by without further
public attacks upon Gran'pa Jim, but among the girls at the school
suspicion had crept in to ostracize Mary Louise from the general
confidence. She lost her bright, cheery air of self-assurance and grew
shy and fearful of reproach, avoiding her schoolmates more than they
avoided her. Instead of being content in her new home, as she had hoped
to be, the girl found herself more miserable and discontented than at
any other period of her life. She longed continually to be comforted by
Gran'pa Jim and Mamma Bee, and even lost interest in her studies, moping
dismally in her room when she should have been taking an interest in the
life at the school.

Even good Miss Stearne had unconsciously changed in her attitude toward
the forlorn girl. Deciding one day that she needed some new shoes, Mary
Louise went to the principal to ask for the money with which to buy
them.

Miss Stearne considered the matter seriously. Then she said with warning
emphasis:

"My dear, I do not think it advisable for you to waste your funds on
shoes, especially as those you have are in fairly good condition. Of
course, your grandfather left some money with me, to be expended as I
saw fit, but now that he has abscon--eh--eh--secreted himself, so to
speak, we can expect no further remittances. When this term is ended any
extra money should be applied toward your further board and tuition.
Otherwise you would become an outcast, with no place to go and no
shelter for your head. That, in common decency, must be avoided. No; I
do not approve of any useless expenditures. I shall hoard this money for
future emergencies."

In happier times Mary Louise would have been indignant at the thought
that her grandfather would ever leave her unprovided for, but she had
been so humbled of late that this aspect of her affairs, so candidly
presented by Miss Stearne, troubled her exceedingly. She had written a
letter every week to her grandfather, addressing it, as he had
instructed her to do, in care of Mr. Peter Conant at Dorfield. And
always she had stolen out, unobserved, and mailed the letter at the
village post office. Of course she had never by a single word referred
to the scandal regarding the Colonel or her mother, or to her own
unhappy lot at school because of that scandal, knowing how such a report
would grieve them; but the curious thing about this correspondence was
that it was distinctly one-sided. In the three months since they had
gone away, Mary Louise had never received an answer to any of her
letters, either from her grandfather or her mother.

This might be explained, she reflected, by the fact that they suspected
the mails would be watched; but this supposition attributed some truth
to the accusation that Gran'pa Jim was a fugitive from justice, which
she would not allow for an instant. Had he not told her to have faith in
him, whatever happened? Should she prove disloyal just because a brutal
officer and an irresponsible newspaper editor had branded her dear
grandfather a criminal?

No! Whatever happened she would cling to her faith in the goodness of
dear Gran'pa Jim.

There was very little money in her purse; a few pennies that she must
hoard to buy postage stamps with. Two parties for young people were
given in Beverly and at both of them Mary Louise was the only girl
boarding at the school who was uninvited. She knew that some of the
girls even resented her presence at the school and often when she joined
a group of schoolmates their hushed conversation warned her they had
been discussing her.

Altogether, she felt that her presence at the school was fast becoming
unbearable and when one of the boarders openly accused her of stealing a
diamond ring--which was later discovered on a shelf above a washstand--
the patient humility of Mary Louise turned to righteous anger and she
resolved to leave the shelter of Miss Stearne's roof without delay.

There was only one possible place for her to go--to the Conant house at
Dorfield, where her mother and grandfather were staying and where she
had already passed three of the most pleasant years of her short life.
Gran'pa Jim had not told her she could come to him, even in an
emergency, but when she explained all the suffering she had endured at
the school she knew quite well that he would forgive her for coming.

But she needed money for the long journey, and this must be secured in
some way from her own resources. So she got together all the jewelry she
possessed and placing it in her handbag started for the town.

She had an idea that a jewelry shop was the proper place to sell her
jewelry, but Mr. Trumbull the jeweler shook his head and said that
Watson, at the bank, often loaned money on such security. He advised the
girl to see Watson.

So Mary Louise went to the "bank," which was a one-man affair situated
in the rear of the hardware store, where a grating had been placed in
one corner. There she found Mr. Watson, who was more a country broker
than a banker, and throve by lending money to farmers.

Gran'pa Jim was almost as fond of pretty jewels as he was of good
clothes and he had always been generous in presenting his grand-daughter
with trinkets on her birthdays and at Christmas time. The jewelry she
laid before Mr. Watson was really valuable and the banker's eye was
especially attracted by a brooch of pearls that must have cost several
hundred dollars.

"How much do you want to borrow on this lot?" he asked.

"As much as I can get, sir," she replied.

"Have you any idea of redeeming it?"

"I hope to do so, of course."

The banker knew perfectly well who Mary Louise was and suspected she
needed money.

"This is no pawnbroker's shop," he asserted. "I'll give you a hundred
dollars, outright, for this pearl brooch--as a purchase, understand--but
the rest of the junk I don't want."

A little man who had entered the hardware store to purchase a tin dipper
was getting so close to the "bank" that Mary Louise feared being
overheard; so she did not argue with Mr. Watson. Deciding that a hundred
dollars ought to take her to Dorfield, she promptly accepted the offer,
signed a bill of sale and received her money. Then she walked two miles
to the railway station and discovered that a ticket to Dorfield could be
bought for ninety-two dollars. That would give her eight dollars leeway,
which seemed quite sufficient. Elated at the prospect of freedom she
returned to the school to make her preparation for departure and arrived
just in time to join the other girls at dinner.




CHAPTER VII

THE ESCAPE


As she packed her trunk behind the locked door of her room--an
unnecessary precaution, since the girls generally avoided her society--
Mary Louise considered whether to confide the fact of her going to Miss
Stearne or to depart without a word of adieu. In the latter case she
would forfeit her trunk and her pretty clothes, which she did not wish
to do unless 