ter's
edge by Donald O'Brien after the battle of Thurles, was
recaptured and fortified anew; Waterford was more strongly
garrisoned than ever; Donald _Kavanagh_ was taken off,
apparently by treachery (A.D. 1175), and all seemed to
promise the enjoyment of uninterrupted power to the Earl.
But his end was already come. An ulcer in his foot brought
on a long and loathsome illness, which terminated in his
death, in the month of May, 1176, or 1177. He was buried
in Christ Church, Dublin, which he had contributed to
enlarge, and was temporarily succeeded in the government
of the Normans by his lieutenant and brother-in-law,
Raymond. By the Lady Eva he left one daughter, Isabel,
married at the age of fourteen to William Marshall, Earl
of Pembroke, who afterwards claimed the proprietary of
Leinster, by virtue of this marriage. Lady Isabel left
again five daughters, who were the ancestresses of the
Mortimers, Braces, and other historic families of England
and Scotland. And so the blood of Earl Richard and his
Irish Princess descended for many generations to enrich
other houses and ennoble other names than his own.

Strongbow is described by _Giraldus_, whose personal
sketches, of the leading invaders form the most valuable
part of his book, as less a statesman than a soldier,
and more a soldier than a general. His complexion was
freckled, his neck slender, his voice feminine and shrill,
and his temper equable and uniform. His career in Ireland
was limited to seven years in point of time, and his
resources were never equal to the task he undertook.
Had they been so, or had he not been so jealously
counteracted by his suzerain, he might have founded a
new Norman dynasty on as solid a basis as William, or as
Rollo himself had done.

Raymond and the Geraldines had now, for a brief moment,
the supreme power, civil and military, in their own hands.
In his haste to take advantage of the Earl's death, of
which he had privately been informed by a message from
his wife, Raymond left Limerick in the hands of Donald
More O'Brien, exacting, we are told, a solemn oath from
the Prince of Thomond to protect the city, which the
latter broke before the Norman garrisons were out of
sight of its walls. This story, like many others of the
same age, rests on the uncertain authority of the vain,
impetuous and passionate _Giraldus_. Whether the loss of
Limerick discredited him with the king, or the ancient
jealousy of the first adventurers prevailed in the royal
councils, Henry, on hearing of Strongbow's death, at once
despatched as Lord Justice, William Fitz-Aldelm de Burgo,
first cousin to Hubert de Burgo, Chief Justiciary of
England, and, like Fitz-Aldelm, descended from Arlotta,
mother of William the Conqueror, by Harlowen de Burgo,
her first husband. From him have descended the noble
family of de Burgo, or Burke, so conspicuous in the after
annals of our island. In the train of the new Justiciary
came John de Courcy, another name destined to become
historical, but before relating his achievements, we must
conclude the narrative so far as regards the first set
of adventurers.

Maurice Fitzgerald, the common ancestor of the Earls of
Desmond and Kildare, the Knights of Glyn, of Kerry, and
of all the Irish Geraldines, died at Wexford in the year
1177. Raymond the Fat, superseded by Fitz-Aldelm, and
looked on coldly by the King, retired to his lands in
the same county, and appears only once more in arms--in
the year 1182--in aid of his uncle, Robert Fitzstephen.
This premier invader had been entrusted by the new ruler
with the command of the garrison of Cork, as Milo de
Cogan had been with that of Waterford, and both had been
invested with equal halves of the principality of Desmond.
De Cogan, Ralph, son of Fitzstephen, and other knights
had been cut off by surprise, at the house of one McTire,
near Lismore, in 1182, and all Desmond was up in arms
for the expulsion of the foreign garrisons. Raymond sailed
from Wexford to the aid of his uncle, and succeeded in
relieving the city from the sea. But Fitzstephen, afflicted
with grief for the death of his son, and worn down with
many anxieties, suffered the still greater loss of his
reason. From thenceforth, we hear no more of either uncle
or nephew, and we may therefore account this the last
year of Robert Fitzstephen, Milo de Cogan, and Raymond
_le gros_. Herve de Montmorency, the ancient rival of
Raymond, had three years earlier retired from the world,
to become a brother in the Monastery of the Holy Trinity,
at Canterbury. His Irish estates passed to his brother
Geoffrey, who subsequently became Justiciary of the
Normans in Ireland, the successful rival of the Marshals,
and founder of the Irish title of Mountmorres. The
posterity of Raymond survived in the noble family of
Grace, Barons of Courtstown, in Ossory. It is not,
therefore, strictly true, what Geoffrey Keating and the
authors he followed have asserted--that the first Normans
were punished by the loss of posterity for the crimes
and outrages they had committed, in their various
expeditions.

Let us be just even to these spoilers of our race. They
were fair specimens of the prevailing type of Norman
character. Indomitable bravery was not their only virtue.
In patience, in policy, and in rising superior to all
obstacles and reverses, no group of conquerors ever
surpassed Strongbow and his companions. Ties of blood
and brotherhood in arms were strong between them, and
whatever unfair advantages they allowed themselves to
take of their enemy, they were in general constant and
devoted in then--friendships towards each other. Rivalries
and intrigues were not unknown among them, but generous
self-denial, and chivalrous self-reliance were equally
as common. If it had been the lot of our ancestors to be
effectually conquered, they could hardly have yielded to
nobler foes. But as they proved themselves able to resist
successfully the prowess of this hitherto invincible
race, their honour is augmented in proportion to the
energy and genius, both for government and war, brought
to bear against them.

Neither should we overstate the charge of impiety. If
the invaders broke down and burned churches in the heat
of battle, they built better and costlier temples out of
the fruits of victory. Christ Church, Dublin, Dunbrody
Abbey, on the estuary of Waterford, the Grey Friars'
Abbey at Wexford, and other religious houses long stood,
or still stand, to show that although the first Norman,
like the first Dane, thirsted after spoil, and lusted
after land, unlike the Dane, he created, he enriched, he
improved, wherever he conquered.




CHAPTER VI.

THE LAST YEARS OF THE ARD-RIGH, RODERICK O'CONOR.

The victory of Thurles, in the year 1174, was the next
important military event, as we have seen, after the
raising of the second siege of Dublin, in the first
campaign of Earl Richard. It seems irreconcilable, with
the consequences of that victory, that Ambassadors from
Roderick should be found at the Court of Henry II. before
the close of the following year: but events personal to
both sovereigns will sufficiently explain the apparent
anomaly.

The campaign of 1174, so unfavourable to Henry's subjects
in Ireland, had been most fortunate for his arms in
Normandy. His rebellious sons, after severe defeats,
submitted, and did him homage; the King of France had
gladly accepted his terms of peace; the King of Scotland,
while in duress, had rendered him fealty as his liege
man; and Queen Eleanor, having fallen into his power,
was a prisoner for life. Tried by a similar unnatural
conspiracy in his own family, Roderick O'Conor had been
less fortunate in coercing them into obedience. His
eldest son, Murray, claimed, according to ancient custom,
that his father should resign in his favour the patrimonial
Province, contenting himself with the higher rank of King
of Ireland. But Roderick well understood that in his
days, with a new and most formidable enemy established
in the old Danish strongholds, with the Constitution torn
to shreds by the war of succession, his only real power
was over his patrimony; he refused, therefore, the
unreasonable request, and thus converted some of his own
children into enemies. Nor were there wanting Princes,
themselves fathers, who abetted this household treason,
as the Kings of France and Scotland had done among the
sons of Henry II. Soon after the battle of Thurles, the
recovery of Limerick, and the taking of Kilkenny, Donald
More O'Brien, lending himself to this odious intrigue,
was overpowered and deposed by Roderick, but the year
next succeeding having made submission he was restored
by the same hand which had cast him down. It was, therefore,
while harassed by the open rebellion of his eldest son,
and while Henry was rejoicing in his late success, that
Roderick despatched to the Court of Windsor Catholicus,
Archbishop of Tuam, Concors, Abbot of St. Brendan's, and
Laurence, Archbishop of Dublin, whose is styled in these
proceedings, "Chancellor of the Irish King," to negotiate
an alliance with Henry, which would leave him free to
combat against his domestic enemies. An extraordinary
treaty, agreed upon at Windsor, about the feast of
Michaelmas, 1175, recognized Roderick's sovereignty over
Ireland, the cantreds and cities actually possessed by
the subjects of Henry excepted; it subinfeudated his
authority to that of Henry, after the manner lately
adopted towards William, King of Scotland; the payment
of a merchantable hide of every tenth hide of cattle was
agreed upon as an annual tribute, while the minor chiefs
were to acknowledge their dependence by annual presents
of hawks and hounds. This treaty, which proceeded on
the wild assumption that the feudal system was of force
among the free clans of Erin, was probably the basis of
Henry's grant of the Lordship of Ireland to his son, John
_Lackland_, a few years later; it was solemnly approved
by a special Council, or Parliament, and signed by the
representatives of both parties.

Among the signers we find the name of the Archbishop of
Dublin, who, while in England, narrowly escaped martyrdom
from the hands of a maniac, while celebrating Mass at
the tomb of St. Thomas. Four years afterwards, this
celebrated ecclesiastic attended at Rome, with Catholicus
of Tuam, and the Prelates of Lismore, Limerick, Waterford,
and Killaloe, the third general council of Lateran, where
they were received with all honour by Pope Alexander III.
From Rome he returned with legantine powers which he used
with great energy during the year 1180. In the autumn of
that year, he was entrusted with the delivery to Henry II.
of the son of Roderick O'Conor, as a pledge for the
fulfilment of the treaty of Windsor, and with other
diplomatic functions. On reaching England, he found the
king had gone to France, and following him thither, he
was seized with illness as he approached the Monastery
of Eu, and with a prophetic foretaste of death, he
exclaimed as he came in sight of the towers of the Convent,
"Here shall I make my resting-place." The Abbot Osbert
and the monks of the Order of St. Victor received him
tenderly, and watched his couch for the few days he yet
lingered. Anxious to fulfil his mission, he despatched
David, tutor of the son of Roderick, with messages to
Henry, and awaited his return with anxiety. David brought
him a satisfactory response from the English King, and
the last anxiety only remained. In death, as in life,
his thoughts were with his country. "Ah, foolish and
insensible people!" he exclaimed in his latest hours,
"what will become of you? Who will relieve your miseries?
Who will heal you?" When recommended to make his last
will, he answered, with apostolic simplicity--"God knows,
out of all my revenues, I have not a single coin to
bequeath." And thus on the 11th day of November, 1180,
in the 48th year of his age, under the shelter of a Norman
roof, surrounded by Norman mourners, the Gaelic
statesman-saint departed out of this life, bequeathing
--one more canonized memory to Ireland and to Rome.

The prospects of his native land were, at that moment,
of a cast which might well disturb the death-bed of the
sainted Laurence. Fitz-Aldelm, advanced to the command
at Dublin in 1177, had shown no great capacity for
following up the conquest. But there was one among his
followers who, unaffected by his sluggish example, and
undeterred by his jealous interference, resolved to push
the outposts of his race into the heart of Ulster. This
was John de Courcy, Baron of Stoke Courcy, in Somersetshire,
a cavalier of fabulous physical strength, romantic courage,
and royal descent. When he declared his settled purpose
to be the invasion of Ulster, he found many spirits as
discontented with Fitz-Aldelm's inaction as himself ready
to follow his banner. His inseparable brother-in-arms,
Sir Almaric of St. Laurence, his relative, Jourdain de
Courcy, Sir Robert de la Poer, Sir Geoffrey and Walter
de Marisco, and other Knights to the number of twenty,
and five hundred men at arms, marched with him out of
Dublin. Hardly had they got beyond sight of the city,
when they were attacked by a native force, near Howth,
where Saint Laurence laid in victory the foundation of
that title still possessed by his posterity. On the
fifth day, they came by surprise upon the famous
ecclesiastical city of Downpatrick, one of the first
objects of their adventure. An ancient prophecy had
foretold that the place would be taken by a chief with
birds upon his shield, the bearings of de Courcy, mounted
on a white horse, which de Courcy happened to ride. Thus
the terrors of superstition were added to the terrors of
surprise, and the town being entirely open, the Normans
had only to dash into the midst of its inhabitants. But
the free clansmen of Ulidia, though surprised, were not
intimidated. Under their lord Rory, son of Dunlevy, they
rallied to expel the invader. Cardinal Vivian, the Papal
Legate, who had just arrived from Man and Scotland, on
the neighbouring coast, proffered his mediation, and
besought de Courcy to withdraw from Down. His advice was
peremptorily rejected, and then he exhorted the Ulidians
to fight bravely for their rights. Five several battles
are enumerated as being fought, in this and the following
year, between de Courcy and the men of Down, Louth, and
Antrim, sometimes with success, at others without it,
always with heavy loss and obstinate resistance.

The barony of Lecale, in which Downpatrick stands, is
almost a peninsula, and the barony of the Ardes on the
opposite shore of Strangford Lough is nearly insulated
by Belfast Lough, the Channel, and the tides of Strangford.
With the active co-operation from the sea of Godred, King
of Man, (whose daughter Africa he had married), de Courcy's
hold on that coast became an exceedingly strong one. A
ditch and a few towers would as effectually enclose Lecale
and the Ardes from any landward attack, as if they were
a couple of well-walled cities. Hence, long after "the
Pale" ceased to extend beyond the Boyne, and while the
mountain passes from Meath into Ulster were all in native
hands, these two baronies continued to be succoured and
strengthened by sea, and retained as English possessions.
Reinforced from Dublin and from Man after their first
success, de Courcy's companions stuck to their
castle-building about the shores of Strangford Lough,
while he himself made incursions into the interior, by
land or by sea, fighting a brisk succession of engagements
at Newry, in Antrim, at Coleraine, and on the eastern
shore of Lough Foyle.

At the time these operations were going forward in Ulster,
Milo de Cogan quitted Dublin on a somewhat similar
expedition. We have already said that Murray, eldest
son of Roderick, had claimed, according to ancient usage,
the O'Conor patrimony, his father being Ard-Righ; and
had his claim refused. He now entered into a secret
engagement with de Cogan, whose force is stated by
_Giraldus_ at 500 men-at-arms, and by the Irish annalists
as "a great army." With the smaller force he left Dublin,
but marching through Meath, was joined at Trim by men
from the garrisons de Lacy had planted in East-Meath. So
accompanied, de Cogan advanced on Roscommon, where he
was received by the son of Roderick during the absence
of the Ard-Righ on a visitation among the glens of
Connemara. After three days spent in Roscommon, these
allies marched across the plain of Connaught, directed
their course on Tuam, burning as they went Elphin, Roskeen,
and many other churches. The western clansmen everywhere
fell back before them, driving off their herds and
destroying whatever they could not remove. At Tuam they
found themselves in the midst of a solitude without food
or forage, with an eager enemy swarming from the west
and the south to surround them. They at once decided to
retreat, and no time was to be lost, as the Kern were
already at their heels. From Tuam to Athleague, and from
Athleague to their castles in East-Meath, fled the remnant
of de Cogan's inglorious expedition. Murray O'Conor being
taken prisoner by his own kinsmen, his eyes were plucked
out as the punishment of his treason, and Conor Moinmoy,
the joint-victor with Donald O'Brien over Strongbow at
Thurles, became the _Roydamna_ or successor of his father.

But fresh dissensions soon broke out between the sons
and grandsons of Roderick, and the sons of his brother
Thurlogh, in one of whose deadly conflicts sixteen Princes
of the Sil-Murray fell. Both sides looked beyond Connaught
for help; one drew friends from the northern O'Neills,
another relied on the aid of O'Brien. Conor Moinmoy, in
the year 1186, according to most Irish accounts, banished
his father into Munster, but at the intercession of the
Sil-Murray, his own clan allowed him again to return,
and assigned him a single cantred of land for his
subsistence. From this date we may count the unhappy
Roderick's retirement from the world.

Near the junction of Lough Corrib with Lough Mask, on
the boundary line between Mayo and Galway, stands the
ruins of the once populous monastery and village of Cong.
The first Christian kings of Connaught had founded the
monastery, or enabled St. Fechin to do so by their generous
donations. The father of Roderick had enriched its shrine
by the gift of a particle of the true Cross, reverently
enshrined in a reliquary, the workmanship of which still
excites the admiration of the antiquaries. Here Roderick
retired in the 70th year of his age, and for twelve years
thereafter--until the 29th day of November, 1198, here
he wept and prayed, and withered away. Dead to the world,
as the world to him, the opening of a new grave in the
royal corner at Clonmacnoise was the last incident
connected with his name, which reminded Connaught that
it had lost its once prosperous Prince, and Ireland, that
she had seen her last Ard-Righ, according to the ancient
Milesian Constitution. Powerful Princes of his own and
other houses the land was destined to know for many
generations, before its sovereignty was merged in that
of England, but none fully entitled to claim the
high-sounding, but often fallacious title, of Monarch of
all Ireland.

The public character of Roderick O'Conor has been hardly
dealt with by most modern writers. He was not, like his
father, like Murkertach O'Brien, Malachy II., Brian,
Murkertach of the leathern cloaks, or Malachy I., eminent
as a lawgiver, a soldier, or a popular leader. He does
not appear to have inspired love, or awe, or reverence,
into those of his own household and patrimony, not to
speak of his distant cotemporaries. He was probably a
man of secondary qualities, engulfed in a crisis of the
first importance. But that he is fairly chargeable with
the success of the invaders--or that there was any very
overwhelming success to be charged up to the time of his
enforced retirement from the world--we have failed to
discover. From Dermid's return until his retreat to Cong,
seventeen years had passed away. Seventeen campaigns,
more or less energetic and systematic, the Normans had
fought. Munster was still in 1185--when John Lackland
made his memorable exit and entrance on the scene--almost
wholly in the hands of the ancient clans. Connaught was
as yet without a single Norman garrison. Hugh de Lacy
returning to the government of Dublin, in 1179, on
Fitz-Aldelm's recall, was more than half _Hibernicized_
by marriage with one of Roderick's daughters, and the
Norman tide stood still in Meath. Several strong fortresses
were indeed erected in Desmond and Leinster, by John
Lackland and by de Courcy, in his newly won northern
territory. Ardfinan, Lismore, Leighlin, Carlow,
Castledermot, Leix, Delvin, Kilkay, Maynooth and Trim,
were fortified; but considering who the Anglo-Normans
were, and what they had done elsewhere, even these very
considerable successes may be correctly accounted for
without overcharging the memory of Roderick with folly
and incapacity. That he was personally brave has not
been questioned. That he was politic--or at least capable
of conceiving the politic views of such a statesman as
St. Laurence O'Toole, we may infer from the rank of
Chancellor which he conferred, and the other negotiations
which he entrusted to that great man. That he maintained
his self-respect as a sovereign, both in abstaining from
visiting Henry II. under pretence of hospitality at
Dublin, and throughout all his difficult diplomacy with
the Normans, we are free to conclude. With the Normans
for foes--with a decayed and obsolete national constitution
to patch up--with nominal subordinates more powerful than
himself--with rebellion staring him in the face out of
the eyes of his own children--Roderick O'Conor had no
ordinary part to play in history. The fierce family
pride of our fathers and the vices of their political
system are to be deplored and avoided; let us not make
the last of their national kings the scape-goat for all
his cotemporaries and all his predecessors.




CHAPTER VII.

ASSASSINATION OF HUGH DE LACY--JOHN "LACKLAND" IN
IRELAND--VARIOUS EXPEDITIONS OF JOHN DE COURCY--DEATH OF
CONOR MOINMOY, AND RISE OF CATHAL, "THE RED-HANDED"
O'CONOR--CLOSE OF THE CAREER OF DE COURCY AND DE BURGH.

Hugh de Lacy, restored to the supreme authority on the
recall of Fitz-Aldelm in 1179, began to conceive hopes,
as Strongbow had done, of carving out for himself a new
kingdom. After the assassination of O'Ruarc already
related, he assumed without further parley the titles of
Lord of Meath and Breffni. To these titles, he added
that of Oriel or Louth, but his real strength lay in
Meath, where his power was enhanced by a politic second
marriage with Rose, daughter of O'Conor. Among the Irish
he now began to be known as King of the foreigners, and
some such assumption of royal authority caused his recall
for a few months in the year 1180, and his substitution
by de Courcy and Philip de Broasa, in 1184. But his great
qualities caused his restoration a third time to the rank
of Justiciary for Henry, or Deputy for John, whose title
of "Lord of Ireland" was bestowed by his father, at a
Parliament held at Oxford, in 1177.

This founder of the Irish de Lacys is described by
_Giraldus_, who knew him personally, as a man of Gallic
sobriety, ambitious, avaricious, and lustful, of small
stature, and deformed shape, with repulsive features,
and dark, deep-set eyes. By the Irish of the midland
districts he was bitterly detested as a sacrilegious
spoiler of their churches and monasteries, and the most
powerful among their invaders. The murder of O'Ruarc,
whose title of Breffni he had usurped, was attributed to
a deep-laid design; he certainly shared the odium with
the advantage that ensued from it. Nor was his own end
unlike that of his rival. Among other sites for castles,
he had chosen the foundations of the ancient and much
venerated monastery of Durrow, planted by Columbcille,
seven centuries before, in the midst of the fertile region
watered by the Brosna. This act of profanity was fated
to be his last, for, while personally superintending the
work, O'Meyey, a young man of good birth, and foster-brother
to a neighbouring chief of Teffia, known as _Sionnach_,
or "the Fox," struck off his head with a single blow of
his axe and escaped into the neighbouring forest of
Kilclare during the confusion which ensued. De Lacy left
issue--two sons, Hugh and Walter, by his first wife, and
a third, William _Gorm_, by his second--of whom, and of
their posterity, we shall have many occasions to make
mention.

In one of the intervals of de Lacy's disfavour, Prince
John, surnamed _Sans-terre_, or "lack-land," was sent
over by his father to strengthen the English interest in
Ireland. He arrived in Waterford, accompanied by a fleet
of sixty ships, on the last of March, 1185, and remained
in the country till the following November. If anything
could excuse the levity, folly and misconduct of the
Prince on this expedition, it would be his youth;--he
was then only eighteen. But Henry had taken every precaution
to ensure success to his favourite son. He was preceded
into Ireland by Archbishop Cuming, the English successor
of St. Laurence; the learned Glanville was his legal
adviser; John de Courcy was his lieutenant, and the
eloquent, but passionate and partial _Giraldus Cambrensis_,
his chaplain and tutor. He had, however, other companions
more congenial to his age and temper, young noblemen as
froward and as extravagant as himself; yet, as he surpassed
them all in birth and rank, so he did in wickedness and
cruelty of disposition. For age he had no reverence, for
virtue no esteem, neither truth towards man, nor decency
towards woman. On his arrival at Waterford, the new
Archbishop of Dublin, John de Courcy, and the principal
Norman nobles, hastened to receive him. With them came
also certain Leinster chiefs, desiring to live at peace
with the new Galls. When, according to the custom of the
country, the chiefs advanced to give John the kiss of
peace, their venerable age was made a mockery by the
young Prince, who met their proffered salutations by
plucking at their beards. This appears to have been as
deadly an insult to the Irish as it is to the Asiatics,
and the deeply offended guests instantly quitted Waterford.
Other follies and excesses rapidly transpired, and the
native nobles began to discover that a royal army
encumbered, rather than led by such a Prince, was not
likely to prove itself invincible. In an idle parade from
the Suir to the Liffey, from the Liffey to the Boyne,
and in issuing orders for the erection of castles, (some
of which are still correctly and others erroneously called
King John's Castles,) the campaign months of the year
were wasted by the King of England's son. One of these
castles, to which most importance was attached, Ardfinan
on the Suir, was no sooner built than taken by Donald
More O'Brien, on midsummer day, when four knights and
its other defenders were slain. Another was rising at
Lismore, on the Blackwater, under the guardianship of
Robert Barry, one of the brood of Nesta, when it was
attacked and Barry slain. Other knights and castellans
were equally unfortunate; Raymond Fitz-Hugh fell at
Leighlin, another Raymond in Idrone, and Roger le Poer
in Ossory. In Desmond, Cormac McCarthy besieged Theobald,
ancestor of the Butlers in Cork, but this brave Prince
--the worthy compeer of O'Brien--was cut off "in a parlee
by them of Cork." The Clan-Colman, or O'Melaghlins, had
risen in West-Meath to reclaim their own, when Henry,
not an hour too soon, recalled his reckless son, and
entrusted, for the last time, the command to Hugh de
Lacy, whose fate has been already related.

In the fluctuations of the power of the invaders after
the death of de Lacy, and during the next reign in England,
one steadfast name appears foremost among the adventurers
--that of the gallant giant, de Courcy, the conqueror of
the Ards of Down. Not only in prowess, but also in piety,
he was the model of all the knighthood of his time. We
are told that he always carried about his person a copy
of the prophecies attributed to Columbcille, and when,
in the year 1186, the relics of the three great saints,
whose dust sanctifies Downpatrick, were supposed to be
discovered by the Bishop of Down in a dream, he caused
them to be translated to the altar-side with all suitable
reverence. Yet all his devotions and pilgrimages did not
prevent him from pushing on the work of conquest whenever
occasion offered. His plantation in Down had time to take
root from the unexpected death of Donald, Prince of
Aileach, in an encounter with the garrison of one of the
new castles, near Newry. (A.D. 1188.) The same year he
took up the enterprise against Connaught, in which Milo
de Cogan had so signally failed, and from which even de
Lacy had, for reasons of his own, refrained. The feuds
of the O'Conor family were again the pretext and the
ground of hope with the invaders, but Donald More O'Brien,
victorious on the Suir and the Shannon, carried his strong
succours to Conor _Moinmoy_ on the banks of the Suca,
near the present Ballinasloe, and both powers combined
marched against de Courcy. Unprepared for this junction,
the Norman retreated towards Sligo, and had reached
Ballysadare, when Flaherty, Lord of Tyrconnell (Donegal),
came against them from the opposite point, and thus placed
between two fires, they were forced to fly through the
rugged passes of the Curlieu mountains, skirmishing as
they went. The only incidents which signalized this
campaign on their side was the burning of Ballysadare
and the plunder of Armagh; to the Irish it was creditable
for the combinations it occasioned. It is cheering in
the annals of those desultory wars to find a national
advantage gained by the joint action of a Munster, a
Connaught, and an Ulster force.

The promise of national unity held out by the alliance
of O'Brien and O'Conor, in the years 1188-'89, had been
followed up by the adhesion of the lords of Breffni,
Ulidia, or Down, the chiefs of the Clan-Colman, and
McCarthy, Prince of Desmond. But the assassination of
Conor Moinmoy, by the partizans of his cousins, extinguished
the hopes of the country, and the peace of his own
province. The old family feuds broke out with new fury.
In vain the aged Roderick emerged from his convent, and
sought with feeble hand to curb the fiery passions of
his tribe; in vain the Archbishops of Armagh and of Tuam
interposed their spiritual authority, A series of
fratricidal contests, for which history has no memory
and no heart, were fought out between the warring branches
of the family during the last ten years of the century,
until by virtue of the strong-arm, Cathal _Crovdearg_,
son of Turlogh More, and younger brother of Roderick,
assumed the sovereignty of Connaught about the year 1200.

In the twelve years which intervened between the death
of _Moinmoy_ and the establishment of the power of Cathal
_Crovdearg_ O'Conor, the Normans had repeated opportunities
for intervention in the affairs of Connaught. William de
Burgh, a powerful Baron of the family of Fitz-Aldelm,
the former Lord Justice, sided with the opponents of
Cathal, while de Courcy, and subsequently the younger de
Lacy, fought on his side. Once at least these restless
Barons changed allies, and fought as desperately against
their former candidate for the succession as they had
before fought for him. In one of these engagements, the
date assigned to which is the year 1190, Sir Armoric St.
Laurence, founder of the Howth family, at the head of a
numerous division, is said to have been cut off with all
his troop. But the fortune of war frequently shifted
during the contest. In the year 1199, Cathal _Crovdearg_,
with his allies de Lacy and de Courcy, was utterly defeated
at Kilmacduagh, in the present county of Galway, and were
it not that the rival O'Conor was sorely defeated, and
trodden to death in the route which ensued, three years
later, Connaught might never have known the vigorous
administration of her "red-handed" hero.

The early career of this able and now triumphant Prince,
as preserved to us by history and tradition, is full of
romantic incidents. He is said to have been born out of
wedlock, and that his mother, while pregnant of him, was
subject to all the cruel persecutions and magical torments
the jealous wife of his father could invent. No sooner
was he born than he became an object of hatred to the
Queen, so that mother and child, after being concealed
for three years in the sanctuaries of Connaught, had to
fly for their lives into Leinster. In this exile, though
early informed of his origin, he was brought up among
the labourers in the field, and was actually engaged,
sickle in hand, cutting the harvest, when a travelling
_Bollscaire_, or newsman from the west, related the events
which enabled him to return to his native province.
"Farewell sickle," he exclaimed, casting it from him
--"now for the sword." Hence "Cathal's farewell to the
rye" was long a proverbial expression for any sudden
change of purpose or of condition. Fortune seems to have
favoured him in most of his undertakings. In a storm upon
Lough Ree, when a whole fleet foundered and its warrior
crew perished, he was one of seven who were saved. Though
in some of his early battles unsuccessful, he always
recovered his ground, kept up his alliances, and returned
to the contest. After the death of the celebrated Donald
More O'Brien (A.D. 1194), he may certainly be considered
the first soldier and first diplomatist among the Irish.
Nor was his lot cast on more favoured days, nor was he
pitted against less able men than those with whom the
brave King of Munster--the stoutest defender of his
fatherland--had so honourably striven. Fortunate it was
for the renown of the Gael, that as one star of the race
set over Thomond, another of equal brilliancy rose to
guide them in the west.

With the end of the century, the career of Cathal's
allies, de Courcy and de Burgh, may be almost said to
have ended. The obituary of the latter bears the date
of 1204. He had obtained large grants from King John of
lands in Connaught--if he could conquer them--which his
vigorous descendants, the Burkes of Clanrickarde, did
their best to accomplish. De Courcy, warring with the
sons of de Lacy, and seeking refuge among the clansmen
of Tyrone, disappears from the stage of Irish affairs.
He is said to have passed on to England, and ended his
days in prison, a victim to the caprice or jealousy of
King John. Many tales are--told of his matchless
intrepidity. His indirect descendants, the Barons of
Kinsale, claim the right to wear their hats before the
King in consequence of one of these legends, which
represents him as the champion Knight of England, taken
from, a dungeon to uphold her honour against a French
challenger. Other tales as ill authenticated are founded
on his career, which, however, in its literal truth, is
unexcelled for hardihood and adventure, except, perhaps,
by the cotemporaneous story of the lion-hearted Richard,
whom he closely resembled. The title of Earl of Ulster,
created for de Courcy in 1181, was transferred in 1205,
by royal patent, to Walter de Lacy, whose only daughter
Maud brought it in the year 1264 to Walter de Burgh, lord
of Connaught, from whose fourth female descendant it
passed in 1354, by her marriage with Lionel, Duke of
Clarence, into the royal family of England.




CHAPTER VIII.

EVENTS OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY--THE NORMANS IN
CONNAUGHT.

Ireland, during the first three quarters of the thirteenth
century, produced fewer important events, and fewer great
men, than in the thirty last years of the century preceding.
From the side of England, she was subjected to no imminent
danger in all that interval. The reign of John ending in
1216, and that of Henry III. extending till 1271, were
fully occupied with the insurrections of the Barons, with
French, Scotch, and Welsh wars, family feuds, the rise
and fall of royal favourites, and all those other incidents
which naturally, befall in a state of society where the
King is weak, the aristocracy strong and insolent, and
the commons disunited and despised. During this period
the fusion of Norman, Saxon, and Briton went slowly on,
and the next age saw for the first time a population
which could be properly called English. "Do you take me
for an Englishman?" was the last expression of Norman
arrogance in the reign of King John; but the close of
the reign of Henry III., through the action of commercial
and political causes, saw a very different state of
feeling growing up between the descendants of the races
which contended for mastery under Harold and William.
The strongly marked Norman characteristics lingered in
Ireland half a century later, for it is usually the case
that traits of caste survive longest in colonies and
remote provinces. In Richard de Burgo, commonly called
the Red Earl of Ulster, all the genius and the vices of
the race of Rollo blazed out over Ireland for the last
time, and with terrible effect.

During the first three quarters of the century, our
history, like that of England, is the history of a few
great houses; nation there is, strictly speaking, none.
It will be necessary, therefore, to group together the
acts of two or three generations of men of the same name,
as the only method of finding our way through the shifting
scenes of this stormy period.

The power of the great Connaught family of O'Conor, so
terribly shaken by the fratricidal wars and unnatural
alliances of the sons and grandsons of Roderick, was in
great part restored by the ability and energy of Cathal
_Crovdearg_. In his early struggles for power he was
greatly assisted by the anarchy which reigned among the
English nobles. Mayler Fitz-Henry, the last of Strongbow's
companions, who rose to such eminence, being Justiciary
in the first six years of the century, was aided by
O'Conor to besiege William de Burgo in Limerick, and to
cripple the power of the de Lacys in Meath. In the year
1207, John Gray, Bishop of Norwich, was sent over, as
more likely to be impartial than any ruler personally
interested in the old quarrels, but during his first term
of office, the interdict with which Innocent III. had
smitten England, hung like an Egyptian darkness over the
Anglo-Norman power in Ireland. The native Irish, however,
were exempt from its enervating effects, and Cathal
O'Conor, by the time King John came over in person--in
the year 1210--to endeavour to retrieve the English
interest, had warred down all his enemies, and was of
power sufficient to treat with the English sovereign as
independently as Roderick had done with Henry II.
thirty-five years before. He personally conferred with
John at Dublin, as the O'Neil and other native Princes
did; he procured from the English King the condemnation
of John de Burgo, who had maintained his father's claims
on a portion of Connaught, and he was formally recognised,
according to the approved forms of Norman diplomacy, as
seized of the whole of Connaught, in his own right.

The visit of King John, which lasted from the 20th of
June till the 25th of August, was mainly directed to the
reduction of those intractable Anglo-Irish Barons whom
Fitz-Henry and Gray had proved themselves unable to cope
with. Of these the de Lacys of Meath were the most
obnoxious. They not only assumed an independent state,
but had sheltered de Braos, Lord of Brecknock, one of
the recusant Barons of Wales, and refused to surrender
him on the royal summons. To assert his authority, and
to strike terror into the nobles of other possessions,
John crossed the channel with a prodigious fleet--in the
Irish annals said to consist of 700 sail. He landed at
Crook, reached Dublin, and prepared at once to subdue
the Lacys. With his own army, and the co-operation of
Cathal O'Conor, he drove out Walter de Lacy, Lord of
Meath, who fled to his brother, Hugh de Lacy, since de
Courcy's disgrace, Earl of Ulster. From Meath into Louth
John pursued the brothers, crossing the lough at Carlingford
with his ships, which must have coasted in his company.
From Carlingford they retreated, and he pursued to
Carrickfergus, and from that fortress, unable to resist
a royal fleet and navy, they fled into Man or Scotland,
and thence escaped in disguise into France. With their
guest de Braos, they wrought as gardeners in the grounds
of the Abbey of Saint Taurin Evreux, until the Abbot,
having discovered by their manners the key to their real
rank, negotiated successfully with John for their
restoration to their estates. Walter agreed to pay a
fine of 2,500 marks for his lordship in Meath, and Hugh
4,000 marks for his possessions in Ulster. Of de Braos
we have no particulars; his high-spirited wife and children
were thought to have been starved to death by order of
the unforgiving tyrant in one of his castles. The de
Lacys, on their restoration, were accompanied to Ireland
by a nephew of the Abbot of St. Taurin, on whom they
conferred an estate and the honour of knighthood.

The only other acts of John's sojourn in Ireland was his
treaty with O'Conor, already mentioned, and the mapping
out, on paper, of the intended counties of Oriel (or
Louth), Meath, Dublin, Kildare, Kilkenny, Katherlough
(or Carlow), Wexford, Waterford, Cork, Kerry, Limerick,
and Tipperary, as the only districts in which those he
claimed as his subjects had any possessions. He again
installed the Bishop of Norwich as his justiciary or
lieutenant, who, three years, later, was succeeded by
Henry de Londres, the next Archbishop of Dublin, and he
again (A.D. 1215), by Geoffrey de Marisco, the last of
John's deputies. In the year 1216, Henry III., an infant
ten years of age, succeeded to the English throne, and
the next dozen years the history of the two islands is
slightly connected, except by the fortunes of the family
of de Burgh, whose head, Hubert de Burgh, the Chief
Justiciary, from the accession of the new King, until
the first third of the century had closed, was in reality
the Sovereign of England. Among his other titles he held
that of Lord of Connaught, which he conveyed to his
relative, Richard de Burgo, the son or grandson of William
Fitz-Aldelm de Burgo, about the year 1225. And this brings
us to relate how the house of Clanrickarde rose upon the
flank of the house of O'Conor, and after holding an almost
equal front for two generations, finally overshadowed
its more ancient rival.

While Cathal _Crovdearg_ lived, the O'Conor's held their
own, and rather more than their own, by policy or arms.
Not only did his own power suffer no diminution, but he
more than once assisted the Dalgais and the Eugenians to
expel their invaders from North and South Munster, and
to uphold their ancient rights and laws. During the last
years of John's reign that King and his Barons were
mutually too busy to set aside the arrangement entered
into in 1210. In the first years of Henry it was also
left undisturbed by the English court. In 1221 we read
that the de Lacys, remembering, no doubt, the part he
had played in their expulsion, endeavoured to fortify
Athleague against him, but the veteran King, crossing
the Shannon farther northward, took them in the rear,
compelled them to make peace, and broke down their Castle.
This was almost the last of his victories. In the year
1213 we read in the Annals of "an awful and heavy shower
which fell over Connaught," and was held to presage the
death of its heroic King. Feeling his hour had come,
this Prince, to whom are justly attributed the rare union
of virtues, ardour of mind, chastity of body, meekness
in prosperity, fortitude under defeat, prudence in civil
business, undaunted bravery in battle, and a piety of
life beyond all his cotemporaries--feeling the near
approach of death, retired to the Abbey of Knockmoy,
which he had founded and endowed, and there expired in
the Franciscan habit, at an age which must have bordered
on fourscore. He was succeeded by his son, Hugh O'Conor,
"the hostages of Connaught being in his house" at the
time of his illustrious father's death.

No sooner was Cathal _Crovdearg_ deceased than Hubert de
Burgo procured the grants of the whole Province, reserving
only five cantreds about Athlone for a royal garrison to
be made to Richard de Burgo, his nephew. Richard had
married Hodierna, granddaughter to Cathal, and thus, like
all the Normans, though totally against the Irish custom,
claimed a part of Connaught in right of his wife. But in
the sons of Cathal he found his equal both in policy and
arms, and with the fall of his uncle at the English court
(about the year 1233), Feidlim O'Conor, the successor of
Hugh, taking advantage of the event, made interest at
the Court of Henry III. sufficient to have his overgrown
neighbour stripped of some of his strongholds by royal
order. The King was so impressed with O'Conor's
representations that he wrote peremptorily to Maurice
Fitzgerald, second Lord Offally, then his deputy, "to
root out that barren tree planted in Offally by Hubert
de Burgh, in the madness of his power, and not to suffer
it to shoot forth." Five years later, Feidlim, in return,
carried some of his force, in conjunction with the deputy,
to Henry's aid in Wales, though, as their arrival was
somewhat tardy, Fitzgerald was soon after dismissed on
that account.

Richard de Burgo died in attendance on King Henry in
France (A.D. 1243), and was succeeded by his son, Walter
de Burgo, who continued, with varying fortunes, the
contest for Connaught with Feidlim, until the death of
the latter, in the Black Abbey of Roscommon, in the year
1265. Hugh O'Conor, the son and successor of Feidlim,
continued the intrepid guardian of his house and province
during the nine years he survived his father. In the year
1254, by marriage with the daughter of de Lacy, Earl of
Ulster, that title had passed into the family of de Burgh,
bringing with it, for the time, much substantial, though
distant, strength. It was considered only a secondary
title, and as the eldest son of the first de Lacy remained
Lord of Meath, while the younger took de Courcy's forfeited
title of Ulster, so, in the next generation, did the sons
of this Walter de Burgh, until death and time reunited
both titles in the same person. Walter de Burgh died in
the year 1271, in the Castle of Galway; his great rival,
Feidlim O'Conor, in 1274, was buried in the Abbey of
Boyle. The former is styled King of the English of
Connaught by the Irish Annalists, who also speak of
Feidlim as "the most triumphant and the most feared (by
the invaders) of any King that had been in Connaught
before his time." The relative position of the Irish and
English in that Province, towards the end of this century,
may be judged by the fact, that of the Anglo-Normans
summoned by Edward I. to join him in Scotland in 1299,
but two, Richard de Burgo and Piers de Bermingham, Baron
of Athenry, had then possessions in Connaught. There
were Norman Castles at Athlone, at Athenry, at Galway,
and perhaps at other points; but the natives still swayed
supreme over the plains of Rathcrogan, the plains of
Boyle, the forests and lakes of Roscommon, and the whole
of _Iar_, or West Connaught, from Lough Corrib to the
ocean, with the very important exception of the castle
and port of Galway. A mightier de Burgo than any that
had yet appeared was to see in his house, in the year
1286, "the hostages of all Connaught;" but his life and
death form a distinct epoch in our story and must be
treated separately.




CHAPTER IX.

EVENTS OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY--THE NORMANS IN MUNSTER
AND LEINSTER.

We have already told the tragic fate of the two
adventurers--Fitzstephen and de Cogan--between whom the
whole of Desmond was first partitioned by Henry II. But
there were not wanting other claimants, either by original
grant from the crown, by intermarriage with Irish, or
Norman-Irish heiresses, or new-comers, favourites of John
or of Henry III., or of their Ministers, enriched at the
expense of the native population. Thomas, third son of
Maurice Fitzgerald, claimed partly through his uncle
Fitzstephen, and partly through his marriage with the
daughter of another early adventurer, Sir William Morrie,
whose vast estates on which his descendants were afterwards
known as Earls of Desmond, the White Knight, the Knight
of Glyn, and the Knight of Kerry. Robert de Carew and
Patrick de Courcy claimed as heirs general to de Cogan.
The de Mariscoes, de Barris, and le Poers, were not
extinct; and finally Edward I., soon after his accession,
granted the whole land of Thomond to Thomas de Clare,
son of the Earl of Gloucester, and son-in-law of Maurice,
third Baron of Offally. A contest very similar to that
which was waged in Connaught between the O'Conors and de
Burghs was consequently going on in Munster at the same
time, between the old inhabitants and the new claimants,
of all the three classes just indicated.

The principality of Desmond, containing angles of Waterford
and Tipperary, with all Cork and Kerry, seemed at the
beginning of the thirteenth century in greatest danger
of conquest. The O'Callaghans, Lords of Cinel-Aedha, in
the south of Cork, were driven into the mountains of
Duhallow, where they rallied and held their ground for
four centuries; the O'Sullivans, originally settled along
the Suir, about Clonmel, were forced towards the mountain
seacoast of Cork and Kerry, where they acquired new vigour
in the less fertile soil of Beare and Bantry. The native
families of the Desies, from their proximity to the port
of Waterford, were harassed and overrun, and the ports
of Dungarvan, Youghal, and Cork, being also taken and
garrisoned by the founder of the earldom of Desmond, easy
entrance and egress by sea could always be obtained for
his allies, auxiliaries, and supplies. It was when these
dangers were darkening and menacing on every side that
the family of McCarthy, under a succession of able and
vigorous chiefs, proved themselves worthy of the headship
of the Eugenian race. Cormac McCarthy, who had expelled
the first garrison from Waterford, ere he fell in a parley
before Cork, had defeated the first enterprises of
Fitzstephen and de Cogan; he left a worthy son in Donald
na Curra, who, uniting his own co-relations, and acting
in conjunction with O'Brien and O'Conor, retarded by his
many exploits the progress of the invasion in Munster.
He recovered Cork and razed King John's castle at
Knockgraffon on the Suir. He left two surviving sons, of
whom the eldest, Donald _Gott_, or the Stammerer, took
the title of _More_, or Great, and his posterity remained
princes of Desmond, until that title merged in the earldom
of Glencare (A.D. 1565); the other, Cormac, after taking
his brother prisoner compelled him to acknowledge him as
lord of the four baronies of Carbury. From this Cormac
the family of McCarthy Reagh descended, and to them the
O'Driscolls, O'Donovans, O'Mahonys, and other Eugenian
houses became tributary. The chief residence of McCarthy
Reagh was long fixed at Dunmanway; his castles were also
at Baltimore, Castlehaven, Lough-Fyne, and in Inis-Sherkin
and Clear Island. The power of McCarthy More extended at
its greatest reach from Tralee in Kerry to Lismore in
Waterford. In the year 1229, Dermid McCarthy had peaceable
possession of Cork, and founded the Franciscan Monastery
there. Such was his power, that, according to Hamner and
his authorities, the Geraldines "dare not for twelve
years put plough into the ground in Desmond." At last,
another generation rose, and fierce family feuds broke
out between the branches of the family. The Lord of
Carbury now was Fineen, or Florence, the most celebrated
man of his name, and one whose power naturally encroached
upon the possession of the elder house. John, son of
Thomas Fitzgerald of Desmond, seized the occasion to make
good the enormous pretension of his family. In the
expedition which he undertook for this purpose, in the
year 1260, he was joined by the Justiciary, William Dene,
by Walter de Burgo, Earl of Ulster, by Walter de
Riddlesford, Baron of Bray, by Donnel Roe, a chief of
the hostile house of McCarthy. The Lord of Carbury united
under his standard the chief Eugenian families, not only
of the Coast, but even of McCarthy More's principality,
and the battle was fought with great ferocity at
Callan-Glen, near Kenmare, in Kerry. There the Anglo-Normans
received the most complete defeat they had yet experienced
on Irish ground. John Fitz-Thomas, his son Maurice, eight
barons, fifteen knights, and "countless numbers of common
soldiers were slain." The Monastery of Tralee received
the dead body of its founder and his son, while Florence
McCarthy, following up his blow, captured and broke down
in swift succession all the English castles in his
neighbourhood, including those of Macroom, Dunnamark,
Dunloe, and Killorglin. In besieging one of these castles,
called Ringrone, the victorious chief, in the full tide
of conquest, was cut off, and his brother, called the
_Atheleireach_ (or suspended priest), succeeded to his
possessions. The death of the victor arrested the panic
of the defeat, but Munster saw another generation before
her invaders had shaken off the depression of the battle
of Callan-glen.

Before the English interest had received this severe blow
in the south, a series of events had transpired in
Leinster, going to show that its aspiring barons had been
seized with the madness which precedes destruction.
William, Earl Marshal and Protector of England during
the minority of Henry III., had married Isabella, the
daughter of Strongbow and granddaughter of Dermid, through
whom he assumed the title of Lord of Leinster. He procured
the office of Earl Marshal of Ireland--originally conferred
on the first de Lacy--for his own nephew, and thus
converted the de Lacys into mortal enemies. His son and
successor Richard, having made himself obnoxious, soon
after his accession to that title, to the young King, or
to Hubert de Burgh, was outlawed, and letters were
despatched to the Justiciary, Fitzgerald, to de Burgo,
de Lacy, and other Anglo-Irish lords, if he landed in
Ireland, to seize his person, alive or dead, and send it
to England. Strong in his estates and alliances, the
young Earl came; while his enemies employed the wily
Geoffrey de Mountmorres to entrap him into a conference,
in order to his destruction. The meeting was appointed
for the first day of April, 1234, and while the outlawed
Earl was conversing with those who had invited him, an
affray began among their servants by design, he himself
was mortally wounded and carried to one of Fitzgerald's
castles, where he died. He was succeeded in his Irish
honours by three of his brothers, who all died without
heirs male. Anselme, the last Earl Marshal of his family,
dying in 1245, left five co-heiresses, Maud, Joan, Isabel,
Sybil, and Eva, between whom the Irish estates--or such
portions of them in actual possession--were divided. They
married respectively the Earls of Norfolk, Suffolk,
Gloucester, Ferrers, and Braos, or Brace, Lord of Brecknock,
in whose families, for another century or more, the
secondary titles were Catherlogh, Kildare, Wexford,
Kilkenny, and Leix,--those five districts being supposed,
most absurdly, to have come into the Marshal family, from
the daughter of Strongbow. The false knights and dishonoured
nobles concerned in the murder of Richard Marshal were
disappointed of the prey which had been promised them--the
partition of his estates. And such was the horror which
the deed excited in England, that it hastened the fall
of Hubert de Burgh, though Maurice Fitzgerald, of
Offally--ancestor of the Kildare family--having cleared
himself of all complicity in it by oath--was continued
as Justiciary for ten years longer. In the year 1245,
for his tardiness in joining the King's army in Wales,
he was succeeded by the false-hearted Geoffrey de
Mountmorres, who held the office till 1247. During the
next twenty-five years, about half as many Justices were
placed and displaced, according to the whim of the
successive favourites at the English Court. In 1252,
Prince Edward, afterwards Edward I., was appointed with
the title of Lord Lieutenant, but never came over. Nor
is there in the series of rulers we have numbered, with,
perhaps, two exceptions, any who have rendered their
names memorable by great exploits, or lasting legislation.
So little inherent power had the incumbents of the highest
office--unless when, they employed their own proper forces
in their sovereign's name--that we read without surprise,
how the bold mountaineers of Wicklow, at the opening of
the century (A.D. 1209) slaughtered the Bristolians of
Dublin, engaged at their archery in Cullenswood, and at
the close of it, how "one of the Kavanaghs, of the blood
of McMurrogh, living at Leinster," "displayed his standards
within sight of the city." Yet this is commonly spoken
of as a country overrun by a few score Norman Knights,
in a couple of campaigns!

The maintenance of the conquest was in these years less
the work of the King's Justices than of the great houses.
Of these, two principally profited, by the untimely
felling of that great tree which overshadowed all others
in Leinster, the Marshals. The descendants of the eldest
son of Maurice Fitzgerald clung to their Leinster
possessions, while their equally vigorous cousins pushed
their fortunes in Desmond. Maurice, grandson of Maurice,
and second Baron of Offally, from the year 1229 to the
year 1246, was three times Lord Justice. "He was a valiant
Knight, a very pleasant man, and inferior to none in the
kingdom," by Matthew Paris's account. He introduced the
Franciscan and Dominican orders into Ireland, built many
castles, churches, and abbeys at Youghal, at Sligo, at
Armagh, at Maynooth, and in other places. In the year
1257, he was wounded in single combat by O'Donnell, Lord
of Tyrconnell, near Sligo, and died soon after in the
Franciscan habit in Youghal. He left his successor so
powerful, that in the year 1264, there being a feud
between the Geraldines and de Burghs, he seized the Lord
Justice and the whole de Burgh party at a conference at
Castledermot, and carried them to his own castles of Lea
and Dunamase as prisoners. In 1272, on the accidental
death of the Lord Justice Audley, by a fall from his
horse, "the council" elected this the third Baron of
Offally in his stead.

The family of Butler were of slower growth, but of equal
tenacity with the Geraldines. They first seem to have
attached themselves to the Marshals, for whom they were
indebted for their first holding in Kilkenny. At the
Conference of Castledermot, Theobald Butler, the fourth
in descent from the founder of the house, was numbered
among the adherents of de Burgh, but a few years later
we find him the ally of the Geraldines in the invasion
of Thomond. In the year 1247, the title of Lord of Carrick
had been conferred on him, which in 1315 was converted
into Earl of Carrick, and this again into that of Ormond.
The Butlers of this house, when they had attained their
growth of power, became the hereditary rivals of the
Kildare Geraldines, whose earldom dates from 1316, as
that of Ormond does from 1328, and Desmond from 1329.

The name of Maurice, the third Baron of Offally, and
uncle of John, the first Earl of Kildare, draws our
attention naturally to the last enterprise of his life
--the attempt to establish his son-in-law, Thomas de
Clare, in possession of Thomond. The de Clares, Earls of
Gloucester, pretended a grant from Henry II. of the whole
of Thomond, as their title to invade that principality;
but their real grant was bestowed by Edward I., in the
year 1275. The state of the renowned patrimony of Brian
had long seemed to invite such an aggression. Murtogh,
son of Donnell More, who succeeded his father in 1194,
had early signalized himself by capturing the castles of
Birr, Kinnetty, Ballyroane and Lothra, in Leix, and razing
them to the ground. But these castles were reconstructed
in 1213, when the feuds between the rival O'Briens--Murtogh
and Donogh Cairbre--had paralyzed the defence force of
Thomond. It was, doubtless, in the true divide-and-conquer
spirit, that Henry the Third's advisers confirmed to
Donogh the lordship of Thomond in 1220, leaving to his
elder brother the comparatively barren title of King of
Munster. Both brothers, by alternately working on their
hopes and fears, were thus for many years kept in a state
of dependence on the foreigner. One gleam of patriotic
virtue illumines the annals of the house of O'Brien,
during the first forty years of the century--when, in
the year 1225, Donogh Cairbre assisted Felim O'Conor to
resist the Anglo-Norman army, then pouring over Connaught,
in the quarrel of de Burgh. Conor, the son of Donogh,
who succeeded his father in the year 1242, animated by
the example of his cotemporaries, made successful war
against the invaders of his Province, more especially in
the year 1257, and the next year; attended with O'Conor
the meeting at Beleek, on the Erne, where Brian O'Neil
was acknowledged, by both the Munster and the Connaught
Prince, as _Ard-Righ_. The untimely end of this attempt
at national union will be hereafter related; meantime,
we proceed to mention that, in 1260, the Lord of Thomond
defeated the Geraldines and their Welsh auxiliaries, at
Kilbarran, in Clare. He was succeeded the following season
by his son, Brian Roe, in whose time Thomas de Clare
again put to the test of battle his pretensions to the
lordship of Thomond.

It was in the year 1277, that, supported by his
father-in-law, the Kildare Fitzgerald, de Clare marched
into Munster, and sought an interview with the O'Brien.
The relation of gossip, accounted sacred among the Irish,
existed between them, but Brien Roe, having placed himself
credulously in the hands of his invaders, was cruelly
drawn to pieces between two horses. All Thomond rose in
arms, under Donogh, son of Brian, to revenge this infamous
murder. Near Ennis the Normans met a terrible defeat,
from which de Clare and Fitzgerald fled for safety into
the neighbouring Church of Quin. But Donogh O'Brien burned
the Church over their heads, and forced them to surrender
at discretion. Strange to say they were held to ransom,
on conditions, we may suppose, sufficiently hard. Other
days of blood were yet to decide the claims of the family
of de Clare. In 1287, Turlogh, then the O'Brien, defeated
an invasion similar to the last, in which Thomas de Clare
was slain, together with Patrick Fitzmaurice of Kerry,
Richard Taafe, Richard Deriter, Nicholas Teeling, and
other knights, and Gerald, the fourth Baron of Offally,
brother-in-law to de Clare, was mortally wounded. After
another interval, Gilbert de Clare, son of Thomas, renewed
the contest, which he bequeathed to his brother Richard.
This Richard, whose name figures more than his brother's
in the events of his time, made a last effort, in the
year 1318, to make good the claims of his family. On the
5th of May, in that year, he fell in battle against
McCarthy and O'Brien, and there fell with him Sir Thomas
de Naas, Sir Henry Capell, Sir James and Sir John Caunton,
with four other knights, and a proportion of men-at-arms.
From thenceforth that proud offshoot of the house of
Gloucester, which, at its first settling in Munster,
flourished as bravely as the Geraldines themselves, became
extinct in the land.

Such were the varying fortunes of the two races in Leinster
and Munster, and such the men who rose and fell. We must
now turn to the contest as maintained at the same period
in Meath and Ulster.




CHAPTER X.

EVENTS OF THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY--THE NORMANS IN MEATH
AND ULSTER.

We may estimate the power of the de Lacy family in the
second generation, from the fact that their expulsion
required a royal army and navy, commanded by the King in
person, to come from England. Although pardoned by John,
the brothers took care never to place themselves in that
cowardly tyrant's power, and they observed the same
precaution on the accession of his son, until well assured
that he did not share the antipathy of his father. After
their restoration the Lacys had no rivals among the
Norman-Irish except the Marshal family, and though both
houses in half a century became extinct, not so those
they had planted or patronized, or who claimed from them
collaterally. In Meath the Tuites, Cusacks, Flemings,
Daltons, Petits, Husseys, Nangles, Tyrrells, Nugents,
Verdons, and Gennevilles, struck deep into the soil. The
co-heiresses, Margaret and Matilda de Lacy, married Lord
Theobald de Verdon and Sir Geoffrey de Genneville, between
whom the estate of their father was divided; both these
ladies dying without male issue, the lordship was, in
1286, claimed by Richard de Burgo, Earl of Ulster, whose
mother was their cousin-germain. But we are anticipating
time.

No portion of the island, if we except, perhaps, Wexford
and the shores of Strangford Lough, was so thoroughly
castellated as the ancient Meath from the sea to the
Shannon. Trim, Kells and Durrow were the strongest holds;
there were keeps or castles at Ardbraccan, Slane, Rathwyre,
Navan, Skreen, Santry, Clontarf, and Castleknock--for
even these places, almost within sight of Dublin, were
included in de Lacy's original grant. None of these
fortresses could have been more than a few miles distant
from the next, and once within their thick-ribbed walls,
the Norman, Saxon, Cambrian, or Danish serf or tenant
might laugh at the Milesian arrows and battle-axes without.
With these fortresses, and their own half-Irish origin
and policy, the de Lacys, father and son, held Meath for
two generations in general subjection. But the banishment
of the brothers in 1210, and the death of Walter of Meath,
presented the family of O'Melaghlin and the whole of the
Methian tribes with opportunities of insurrection not to
be neglected. We read, therefore, under the years 1211,
'12 and '13, that Art O'Melaghlin and Cormac, his son,
took the castles of Killclane, Ardinurcher, Athboy, and
Smerhie, killing knights and wardens, and enriching
themselves with booty; that the whole English of Ireland
turned out _en masse_ to the rescue of their brethren in
Meath; that the castles of Birr, Durrow, and Kinnetty
were strengthened against Art, and a new one erected at
Clonmacnoise. After ten years of exile, the banished de
Lacys returned, and by alliance with O'Neil, no less than
their own prowess, recovered all their former influence.
Cormac, son of Art, left a son and successor also named
Art, who, we read at the year 1264, gave the English of
Meath a great defeat upon the Brosna, where he that was
not slain was drowned. Following the blow, he burned
their villages and broke the castles of the stranger
throughout Devlin, Calry, and Brawny, and replaced in
power over them the McCoghlans, Magawleys, and O'Breens,
from whom he took hostages according to ancient custom.
Two years afterwards he repulsed Walter de Burgh at
Shannon harbour, driving his men into the river, where
many of them perished. At his death (A.D. 1283) he is
eulogized for having destroyed seven-and-twenty English
castles in his lifetime. From these exploits he was called
Art _na Caislean_, a remarkable distinction, when we
remember that the Irish were, up to this time, wholly
unskilled in besieging such strongholds as the Norman
engineers knew so well how to construct. His only rival
in Meath in such meritorious works of destruction was
Conor, son of Donnell, and O'Melaghlin of East-Meath, or
_Bregia_, whose death is recorded at the year 1277, "as
one of the three men in Ireland" whom the midland English
most feared.

From the ancient mensal the transition is easy to the
north. The border-land of Breffni, whose chief was the
first of the native nobles that perished by Norman perfidy,
was at the beginning of the century swayed by Ulgarg
O'Rourke. Of Ulgarg we know little, save that in the year
1231 he "died on his way to the river Jordan"--a not
uncommon pilgrimage with the Irish of those days. Nial,
son of Congal, succeeded, and about the middle of the
century we find Breffni divided into two lordships, from
the mountain of Slieve-an-eiran eastward, or Cavan, being
given to Art, son of Cathal, and from the mountain
westward, or Leitrim, to Donnell, son of Conor, son of
Tiernan, de Lacy's victim. This subdivision conduced
neither to the strengthening of its defenders nor to the
satisfaction of O'Conor, under whose auspices it was
made. Family feuds and household treasons were its natural
results for two or three generations; in the midst of
these broils two neighbouring families rose into greater
importance, the O'Reillys in Cavan and the Maguires in
Fermanagh. Still, strong in their lake and mountain
region, the tribes of Breffni were comparatively unmolested
by foreign enemies, while the stress of the northern
battle fell upon the men of Tyrconnell and Tyrone, of
Oriel and of the coast country, from Carlingford to the
Causeway.

The borders of Tyrconnell and Tyrone, like every other
tribe-land, were frequently enlarged or contracted,
according to the vigour or weakness of their chiefs or
neighbours. In the age of which we now speak, Tyrconnell
extended from the Erne to the Foyle, and Tyrone from the
Foyle to Lough Neagh, with the exception of the extreme
north of Berry and Antrim, which belonged to the O'Kanes.
It was not till the fourteenth century that the O'Neils
spread their power east of Lough Neagh, over those baronies
of Antrim long known as north and south _Clan-Hugh-Buidhe_,
(Clandeboy.) North Antrim was still known as Dalriada,
and South Antrim and Down, as Ulidia. Oriel, which has
been usually spoken of in this history as Louth, included
angles of Monaghan and Armagh, and was anciently the most
extensive lordship in Ulster. The chieftain families of
Tyrconnell were the O'Donnells; of Tyrone, the O'Neils
and McLaughlins; of Dalriada, O'Kanes, O'Haras, and
O'Shields; of Ulidia, the Magennis of Iveagh and the
Donlevys of Down; of Oriel, the McMahons and O'Hanlons.
Among these populous tribes the invaders dealt some of
their fiercest blows, both by land and sea, in the
thirteenth century. But the north was fortunate in its
chiefs; they may fairly contest the laurel with the
O'Conors, O'Briens and McCarthys of the west and south.

In the first third of the century, Hugh O'Neil, who
succeeded to the lordship of Tyrone in 1198, and died in
1230, was cotemporary with Donnell More O'Donnell, who,
succeeding to the lordship of Tyrconnell in 1208, died
in 1241, after an equally long and almost equally
distinguished career. Melaghlin O'Donnell succeeded
Donnell More from '41 to '47, Godfrey from '48 to '57,
and Donnell Oge from 1257 to 1281, when he was slain in
battle. Hugh O'Neil was succeeded in Tyrone by Donnell
McLaughlin, of the rival branch of the same stock, who
in 1241 was subdued by O'Donnell, and the ascendancy of
the family of O'Neil established in the person of Brian,
afterwards chosen King of Ireland, and slain at Down.
Hugh Boy, or the Swarthy, was elected O'Neil on Brian's
death, and ruled till the year 1283, when he was slain
in battle, as was his next successor, Brian, in the year
1295. These names and dates are worthy to be borne in
mind, because on these two-great houses mainly devolved
the brunt of battle in their own province.

These northern chiefs had two frontiers to guard or to
assail: the north-eastern, extending from the glens of
Antrim to the hills of Mourne, and the southern stretching
from sea to sea, from Newry to Sligo. This country was
very assailable by sea; to those whose castles commanded
its harbours and rivers, the fleets of Bristol, Chester,
Man, and Dublin could always carry supplies and
reinforcements. By the interior line one road threaded
the Mourne mountains, and deflected towards Armagh, while
another, winding through west Breffni, led from Sligo
into Donegal by the cataract of Assaroe,--the present
Ballyshannon. Along these ancient lines of communication,
by fords, in mountain passes, and near the landing places
for ships, the struggle for the possession of that end
of the Island went on, at intervals, whenever large bodies
of men could be spared from garrisons and from districts
already occupied.

In the year 1210, we find that there was an English Castle
at Cael-uisge, now Castle-Caldwell, on Lough Erne, and
that it was broke down and its defenders slain by Hugh
O'Neil and Donald More O'Donnell acting together. After
this event we have no trace of a foreign force in the
interior of Ulster for several years. Hugh O'Neil, who
died in 1230, is praised by the Bards for "never having
given hostages, pledges, or tributes to English or Irish,"
which seems a compliment well founded. During several
years following that date the war was chiefly centred in
Connaught, and the fighting men of the north who took
part in it were acting as allies to the O'Conors. Donald
More O'Donnell had married a daughter of Cathal Crovdearg,
so that ties of blood, as well as neighbouring interests,
united these two great families. In the year 1247, an
army under Maurice Fitzgerald, then Lord Justice, crossed
the Erne in two divisions, one above and the other at
Ballyshannon. Melaghlin O'Donnell was defending the
passage of the river when he was taken unexpectedly in
the rear by those who had crossed higher up, and thus
was defeated and slain. Fitzgerald then ravaged Tyrconnell,
set up a rival chief O'Canavan, and rebuilt the Castle
at Cael-uisge, near Beleek. Ten years afterwards Godfrey
O'Donnell, the successor of Melaghlin, avenged the defeat
at Ballyshannon, in the sanguinary battle of Credran,
near Sligo, where engaging Fitzgerald in single combat,
he gave him his death-stroke. From wounds received at
Credran, Godfrey himself, after lingering twelve months
in great suffering, died. But his bodily afflictions did
not prevent him discharging all the duties of a great
Captain; he razed a second time the English Castle on
Lough Erne, and stoutly protected his own borders against
the pretensions of O'Neil, being carried on his bier in
the front of the battle of Lough Swilly in 1258.

It was while Tyrconnell was under the rule of this heroic
soldier that the unfortunate feud arose between the
O'Neils and O'Donnells. Both families, sprung from a
common ancestor, of equal antiquity and equal pride,
neither would yield a first place to the other. "Pay me
my tribute," was O'Neil's demand; "I owe you no tribute,
and if I did---" was O'Donnell's reply. The O'Neil at
this time--Brian--aspiring to restore the Irish sovereignty
in his own person, was compelled to begin the work of
exercising authority over his next neighbour. More than
one border battle was the consequence, not only with
Godfrey, but with Donnell Oge, his successor. In the year
1258, Brian was formally recognized by O'Conor and O'Brien
as chief of the kingdom, in the conference of Cael-uisge,
and two years later, at the battle of Down, gallantly
laid down his life, in defence of the kingdom he claimed
to govern. In this most important battle no O'Donnell is
found fighting with King Brian, though immediately
afterwards we find Donnell Oge of Tyrconnell endeavouring
to subjugate Tyrone, and active afterwards in the aid of
his cousins, the grandsons of Cathal Crovdearg, in
Connaught.

The Norman commander in this battle was Stephen de
Longespay, then Lord Justice, Earl of Salisbury in
England, and Count de Rosman in France. His marriage with
the widow of Hugh de Lacy and daughter of de Riddlesford
connected him closely with Irish affairs, and in the
battle of Down he seems to have had all the Anglo-Irish
chivalry, "in gold and iron," at his back. With King
Brian O'Neil fell, on that crimson day, the chiefs of
the O'Hanlons, O'Kanes, McLaughlins, O'Gormlys, McCanns,
and other families who followed his banner. The men of
Connaught suffered hardly less than those of Ulster.
McDermott, Lord of Moylurgh, Cathal O'Conor, O'Gara,
McDonogh, O'Mulrony, O'Quinn, and other chiefs were among
the slain. In Hugh _Bwee_ O'Neil the only hope of the
house of Tyrone seemed now to rest; and his energy and
courage were all taxed to the uttermost to retain the
place of his family in the Province, beating back rapacious
neighbours on the one hand, and guarding against foreign
enemies on the other. For twelve years, Hugh _Bwee_
defended his lordship against all aggressors. In 1283,
he fell at the hands of the insurgent chiefs of Oriel
and Breffni, and a fierce contest for the succession
arose between his son Brian and Donald, son of King Brian
who fell at Down. A contest of twelve years saw Donald
successful over his rival (A.D. 1295), and his rule
extended from that period until 1325, when he died at
Leary's lake, in the present diocese of Clogher.

It was this latter Donnell or Donald O'Neil, who, towards
the end of his reign, addressed to Pope John XXII. (elected
to the pontificate in 1316) that powerful indictment
against the Anglo-Normans, which has ever since remained
one of the cardinal texts of our history. It was evidently
written after the unsuccessful attempt, in which Donald
was himself a main actor, to establish Edward Bruce on
the throne of Ireland. That period we have not yet
reached, but the merciless character of the warfare waged
against the natives of the country could hardly have been
aggravated by Bruce's defeat. "They oblige us by open
force," says the Ulster Prince, "to give up to them our
houses and our lands, and to seek shelter like wild beasts
upon the mountains, in woods, marshes, and caves. Even
there we are not secure against their fury; they even
envy us those dreary and terrible abodes; they are
incessant and unremitting in their pursuit after us,
endeavouring to chase us from among them; they lay claim
to every place in which they can discover us with
unwarranted audacity and injustice; they allege that the
whole kingdom belongs to them of right, and that an
Irishman has no longer a right to remain in his own
country."

After specifying in detail the proofs of these and other
general charges, the eloquent Prince concludes by uttering
the memorable vow that the Irish "will not cease to fight
against and among their invaders until the day when they
themselves, for want of power, shall have ceased to do
us harm, and that a Supreme Judge shall have taken just
vengeance on their crimes, which we firmly hope will
sooner or later come to pass."




CHAPTER XI.

RETROSPECT OF THE NORMAN PERIOD IN IRELAND--A GLANCE AT
THE MILITARY TACTICS OF THE TIMES--NO CONQUEST OF THE
COUNTRY IN THE THIRTEENTH CENTURY.

Though the victorious and protracted career of Richard
de Burgh, the "Red Earl" of Ulster, might, without
overstraining, be included in the Norman period, yet, as
introductory to the memorable advent and election of King
Edward Bruce, we must leave it for the succeeding book.
Having brought down the narrative, as regards all the
provinces, to the end of the first century, from the
invasion, we must now cast a backward glance on the events
of that hundred years before passing into the presence
of other times and new combinations.

"There were," says _Giraldus Cambriensis_, "three sundry
sorts of servitors which served in the realm of Ireland,
Normans, Englishmen, and the Cambrians, which were the
first conquerors of the land: the first were in most
credit and estimation, the second next, but the last were
not accounted or regarded of." "The Normans," adds the
author, "were very fine in their apparel, and delicate
in their diets; they could not feed but upon dainties,
neither could their meat digest without wine at each
meal; yet would they not serve in the marches or any
remote place against the enemy, neither would they lie
in garrison to keep any remote castle or fort, but, would
be still about their lord's side to serve and guard his
person; they would be where they might be full and have
plenty; they could talk and brag, swear, and stare, and,
standing in their own reputation, disdain all others."
This is rather the language of a partizan than of an
historian; of one who felt and spoke for those, his own
kinsmen many of them, who, he complains, although the
first to enter on the conquest, were yet held in contempt
and disdain, "and only new-comers called to council."

The Normans were certainly the captains in every campaign
from Robert Fitzstephen to Stephen de Longespay. They
made the war, and they maintained it. In the rank and
file, and even among the knighthood, men of pure Welsh,
English, and Flemish and Danish blood, may be singled
out, but each host was marshalled by Norman skill, and
every defeat was borne with Norman fortitude. It may seem
strange, then, that these greatest masters of the art of
war, as waged in the middle ages, invincible in England,
France, Italy, and the East, should, after a hundred
years, be no nearer to the conquest of Ireland than they
were at the end of the tenth year.

The main causes of the fluctuations of the war were, no
doubt, the divided military command, and the frequent
change of their civil authorities. They had never marched
or colonized before without their Duke or King at their
head, and in their midst. One supreme chief was necessary
to keep to any common purpose the minds of so many proud,
intractable nobles. The feuds of the de Lacys with the
Marshals, of the Geraldines with the de Burghs, broke
out periodically during the thirteenth century, and were
naturally seized upon, by the Irish as opportunities for
attacking either or both. The secondary nobles and all
the adventurers understood their danger and its cause,
when they petitioned Henry II. and Henry III. so often
and so urgently as they did, that a member of the royal
family might reside permanently in Ireland, to exercise
the supreme authority, military and civil.

The civil administration of the colonists passing into
different hands every three or four years, suffered from
the absence of permanent authority. The law of the marches
was, of necessity, the law of the strong hand, and no
other. But _Cambrensis_, whose personal prejudices are
not involved in this fact, describes the walled towns as
filled with litigation in his time. "There was," he says,
"such _lawing_ and vexation, that the veteran was more
troubled in _lawing_ within the town than he was in peril
at large with the enemy." This being the case, we must
take with great caution the bold assertions so often made
of the zeal with which the natives petitioned the Henrys
and Edwards that the law of England might be extended to
them. Certain Celts whose lands lay within or upon the
marches, others who compounded with their Norman invaders,
a chief or prince, hard pressed by domestic enemies, may
have wished to be in a position to quote Norman law
against Norman spoilers, but the popular petitions which
went to England, beseeching the extension of its laws to
Ireland, went only from the townsmen of Dublin, and the
new settlers in Leinster or Meath, harassed and impoverished
by the arbitrary jurisdiction of manorial courts, from
which they had no appeal. The great mass of the Irish
remained as warmly attached to their Brehon code down to
the seventeenth century as they were before the invasion
of Norman or Dane. It may sound barbarous to our ears
that, according to that code, murder should be compounded
by an _eric_, or fine; that putting out the eyes should
be the usual punishment of treason; that maiming should
be judiciously inflicted for sundry offences; and that
the land of a whole clan should be equally shared between
the free members of that clan. We are not yet in a position
to form an intelligent opinion upon the primitive
jurisprudence of our ancestors, but the system itself
could not have been very vicious which nourished in the
governed such a thirst for justice, that, according to
one of their earliest English law reformers, they were
anxious for its execution, even against themselves.

The distinction made in the courts of the adventurers
against natives of the soil, even when long domiciled
within their borders, was of itself a sufficient cause
of war between the races. In the eloquent letter of the
O'Neil to Pope John XXII.--written about the year 1318--we
read, that no man of Irish origin could sue in an English
court; that no Irishman, within the marches, could make
a legal will; that his property was appropriated by his
English neighbours; and that the murder of an Irishman
was not even a felony punishable by fine. This latter
charge would appear incredible, if we had not the record
of more than one case where the homicide justified his
act by the plea that his victim was a mere native, and
where the plea was held good and sufficient.

A very vivid picture of Hiberno-Norman town-life in those
days is presented to us in an old poem, on the "Entrenchment
of the Town of Ross," in the year 1265. We have there
the various trades and crafts-mariners, coat-makers,
fullers, cloth-dyers and sellers, butchers, cordwainers,
tanners, hucksters, smiths, masons, carpenters, arranged
by guilds, and marching to the sound of flute and tabor,
under banners bearing a fish and platter, a painted ship,
and other "rare devices." On the walls, when finished,
cross-bows hung, with store of arrows ready to shoot;
when the city horn sounded twice, burgess and bachelor
vied with each other in warlike haste. In time of peace
the stranger was always welcome in the streets; he was
free to buy and sell without toll or tax, and to admire
the fair dames who walked the quiet ramparts, clad in
mantles of green, or russet, or scarlet. Such is the
poetic picture of the town of Ross in the thirteenth
century; the poem itself is written in Norman-French,
though evidently intended for popular use, and the author
is called "Friar Michael of Kildare." It is pretty evident
from this instance, which is not singular, that a century
after the first invasion, the French language was still
the speech of part, if not the majority, of these
Hiberno-Norman townsmen.

So walls, and laws, and language arose, a triple barrier
between the races. That common religion which might be
expected to form a strong bond between them had itself
to adopt a twofold organization. Distinctions of nationality
were carried into the Sanctuary and into the Cloister.
The historian _Giraldus_, in preaching at Dublin against
the alleged vices of the native Clergy, sounded the first
note of a long and bitter controversy. He was promptly
answered from the same pulpit on the next occasion by
Albin O'Mulloy, the patriot Abbot of Baltinglass. In
one of the early Courts or Parliaments of the Adventurers,
they decreed that no Monastery in those districts of
which they had possession, should admit any but natives
of England, as novices,--a rule which, according to
O'Neil's letter, was faithfully acted upon by English
Dominicans, Franciscans, Benedictines, and regular canons.
Some of the great Cistercian houses on the marches, in
which the native religious predominated, adopted a
retaliatory rule, for which they were severely censured
by the general Chapter of their Order. But the length to
which this feud was carried may be imagined by the sweeping
charge O'Neil brings against "Brother Symon, a relative
of the Bishop of Coventry," and other religious of his
nation, who openly maintained, he says, that the killing
of a mere Irishman was no murder.

When this was the feeling on one side, or was believed
to be the feeling, we cannot wonder that the war should
have been renewed as regularly as the seasons. No sooner
was the husbandman in the field than the knight was upon
the road. Some peculiarities of the wars of those days
gleam out at intervals through the methodic indifference
to detail of the old annals, and reveal to us curious
conditions of society. In the Irish country, where
castle-building was but slowly introduced, we see, for
example, that the usual storage for provisions, in time
of war, was in churches and churchyards. Thus de Burgh,
in his expedition to Mayo, in 1236, "left neither rick
nor basket of corn in the large churchyard of Mayo, or
in the yard of the Church of Saint Michael the Archangel,
and carried away eighty baskets out of the churches
themselves." When we read, therefore, as we frequently
do, of both Irish and Normans plundering churches in the
land of their enemies, we are not to suppose the plunder
of the sanctuary. Popularly this seizing the supplies of
an enemy on consecrated ground was considered next to
sacrilege; and well it was for the fugitives in the
sanctuary in those iron times that it should be so
considered. Yet not the less is it necessary for us to
distinguish a high-handed military measure from actual
sacrilege, for which there can be no apology, and hardly
any earthly atonement.

In their first campaigns the Irish had one great advantage
over the Normans in their familiarity with the country.
This helped them to their first victories. But when the
invaders were able to set up rival houses against each
other, and to secure the co-operation of natives, the
advantage was soon equalized. Great importance was attached
to the intelligence and good faith of the guides, who
accompanied every army, and were personally consulted by
the leaders in determining their march. A country so
thickly studded with the ancient forest, and so netted
with rivers (then of much greater volume than since they
have been stripped of their guardian woods), afforded
constant occasion for the display of minute local knowledge.
To miss a pass or to find a ford might determine a
campaign, almost as much as the skill of the chief, or
the courage of the battalion.

The Irish depended for their knowledge of the English
towns and castles on their daring _spies_, who continually
risked their necks in acquiring for their clansmen such
needful information. This perilous duty, when undertaken
by a native for the benefit of his country, was justly
accounted highly honourable. Proud poets, educated in
all the mysteries of their art, and even men of chieftain
rank, did not hesitate to assume disguises and act the
patriot spy. One of the most celebrated spies of this
century was Donogh Fitzpatrick, son of the Lord of Ossory,
who was slain by the English in 1250. He was said to be
"one of the three men" most feared by the English in his
day. "He was in the habit of going about to reconnoitre
their market towns," say the Annalists, "in various
disguises." An old quatrain gives us a list of some of
the parts he played when in the towns of his enemies--

   "He is a carpenter, he is a turner.
    My nursling is a bookman.
    He is selling wine and hides
    Where he sees a gathering."

An able captain, as well as an intrepid spy, he met his
fate in acting out his favourite part, "which," adds our
justice-loving Four Masters, "was a retaliation due to
the English, for, up to that time, he had killed, burned,
and destroyed many of them."

Of the equipments and tactics of the belligerents we get
from our Annals but scanty details. The Norman battalion,
according to the usage of that people, led by the marshal
of the field, charged, after the archers had delivered
their fire. But these wars had bred a new mounted force,
called hobiler-archers, who were found so effective that
they were adopted into all the armies of Europe. Although
the bow was never a favourite weapon with the Irish,
particular tribes seem to have been noted for its use.
We hear in the campaigns of this century of the archers
of Breffni, and we may probably interpret as referring
to the same weapon, Felim O'Conor's order to his men, in
his combat with the sons of Roderick at Drumraitte (1237),
"not to shoot but to come to a close fight." It is
possible, however, that this order may have reference to
the old Irish weapon, the javelin or dart. The pike, the
battle-axe, the sword, and skein, or dagger, both parties
had in common, though their construction was different.
The favourite tactique, on both sides, seems to have been
the old military expedient of outflanking an enemy, and
attacking him simultaneously in front and rear. Thus, in
the year 1225, in one of the combats of the O'Conors,
when the son of Cathal _Crovdearg_ endeavoured to surround
Turlogh O'Conor, the latter ordered his recruits to the
van, and Donn Oge Magheraty, with some Tyronian and other
soldiers to cover the rear, "by which means they escaped
without the loss of a man." The flank movement by which
the Lord Justice Fitzgerald carried the passage of the
Erne (A.D. 1247) against O'Donnell, according to the
Annalists, was suggested to Fitzgerald by Cormac, the
grandson of Roderick O'Conor. By that period in their
intercourse the Normans and Irish had fought so often
together that their stock of tactical knowledge must have
been, from experience, very much common property. In the
eyes of the Irish chiefs and chroniclers, the foreign
soldiers who served with them were but hired mercenaries.
They were sometimes repaid by the plunder of the country
attacked, but usually they received fixed wages for the
length of time they entered. "Hostages for the payment
of wages" are frequently referred to, as given by native
nobles to these foreign auxiliaries. The chief expedient
for subsisting an army was driving before them herds and
flocks; free quarters for men and horses were supplied
by the tenants of allied chiefs within their territory,
and for the rest, the simple outfit was probably not very
unlike that of the Scottish borderers described by
Froissart, who cooked the cattle they captured in their
skins, carrying a broad plate of metal and a little bag
of oatmeal trussed up behind the saddle.

One inveterate habit clung to the ancient race, even
until long after the times of which we now speak--their
unconquerable prejudice against defensive armour. Gilbride
McNamee, the laureate to King Brian O'Neil, gives due
prominence to this fact in his poem on the death of his
patron in the battle of Down (A.D. 1260). Thus sings the
northern bard--

   "The foreigners from London,
       The hosts from Port-Largy *
    Came in a bright green body,
       In gold and iron armour.

   "Unequal they engage in the battle,
       The foreigners and the Gael of Tara,
    _Fine linen shirts on the race of Conn_,
       And the strangers _one mass of iron_."

   [Footnote: Port-Largy, Waterford.]

With what courage they fought, these scorners of armour,
their victories of Ennis, of Callanglen, and of Credran,
as well as their defeats at the Erne and at Down, amply
testify. The first hundred years of war for native land,
with their new foes, had passed over, and three-fourths
of the _Saer Clanna_ were still as free as they had ever
been. It was not reserved even for the Norman race--the
conquest of Innisfail!




CHAPTER XII.

STATE OF SOCIETY AND LEARNING IN IRELAND DURING THE NORMAN
PERIOD.

We have already spoken of the character of the war waged
by and against the Normans on Irish soil, and as war was
then almost every man's business, we may be supposed to
have described all that is known of the time in describing
its wars. What we have to add of the other pursuits of
the various orders of men into which society was divided,
is neither very full nor very satisfactory.

The rise, fall, and migrations of some of the clans have
been already alluded to. In no age did more depend on
the personal character of the chief than then. When the
death of the heroic Godfrey left the free clansmen of
Tyrconnell without a lord to lead them to battle, or rule
them in peace, the Annalists represent them to us as
meeting in great perplexity, and engaged "in making
speeches" as to what was to be done, when suddenly, to
their great relief, Donnell Oge, son of Donnell More,
who had been fostered in Alba (Scotland), was seen
approaching them. Not more welcome was Tuathal, the
well-beloved, the restorer of the Milesian monarchy,
after the revolt of the _Tuatha_. He was immediately
elected chief, and the emissaries of O'Neil, who had been
waiting for an answer to his demand of tribute, were
brought before him. He answered their proposition by a
proverb expressed in the Gaelic of Alba, which says that
"every man should possess his own country," and Tyrconnell
armed to make good this maxim.

The Bardic order still retained much of their ancient
power, and all their ancient pride. Of their most famous
names in this period we may mention Murray O'Daly of
Lissadil, in Sligo, Donogh O'Daly of Finvarra, sometimes
called Abbot of Boyle, and Gilbride McNamee, laureate to
King Brian O'Neil. McNamee, in lamenting the death of
Brian, describes himself as defenceless, and a prey to
every spoiler, now that his royal protector is no more.
He gave him, he tells us, for a poem on one occasion,
besides gold and raiment, a gift of twenty cows. On
another, when he presented him a poem, he gave in return
twenty horned cows, and a gift still more lasting, "the
blessing of the King of Erin." Other chiefs, who fell in
the same battle, and to one of whom, named Auliffe
O'Gormley, he had often gone "on a visit of pleasure,"
are lamented with equal warmth by the bard. The poetic
Abbot of Boyle is himself lamented in the Annals as the
Ovid of Ireland, as "a poet who never had and never will
have an equal." But the episode which best illustrates
at once the address and the audacity of the bardic order
is the story of Murray O'Daly of Lissadil, and Donnell
More O'Donnell, Lord of Tyrconnell.

In the year 1213, O'Donnell despatched Finn O'Brollaghan,
his _Aes graidh_ or Steward, to collect his tribute in
Connaught, and Finn, putting up at the house of O'Daly,
near Drumcliff, and being a plebeian who knew no better,
began to wrangle with the poet. The irritable master of
song, seizing a sharp axe, slew the steward on the spot,
and then to avoid O'Donnell's vengeance fled into
Clanrickarde. Here he announced himself by a poem addressed
to de Burgh, imploring his protection, setting forth the
claims of the Bardic order on all high-descended heroes,
and contending that his fault was but venial, in killing
a clown, who insulted him. O'Donnell pursued the fugitive
to Athenry, and de Burgh sent him away secretly into
Thomond. Into Thomond, the Lord of Tyrconnell marched,
but O'Brien sent off the Bard to Limerick. The enraged
Ulsterman appeared at the gates of Limerick, when O'Daly
was smuggled out of the town, and "passed from hand to
hand," until he reached Dublin. The following spring
O'Donnell appeared in force before Dublin, and demanded
the fugitive, who, as a last resort, had been sent for
safety into Scotland. From the place of his exile he
addressed three deprecatory poems to the offended Lord
of Tyrconnell, who finally allowed him to return to
Lissadil in peace, and even restored him to his friendship.

The introduction of the new religious orders--Dominicans,
Franciscans, and the order for the redemption of Captives
into Ireland, in the first quarter of this century
gradually extinguished the old Columban and Brigintine
houses. In Leinster they made way most rapidly; but Ulster
clung with its ancient tenacity to the Columban rule.
The Hierarchy of the northern half-kingdom still exercised
a protectorate, over Iona itself, for we read, in the
year 1203, how Kellagh, having erected a monastery in
the middle of Iona, in despite of the religious, that
the Bishops of Derry and Raphoe, with the Abbots of Armagh
and Derry and numbers of the Clergy of the North of
Ireland, passed over to Iona, pulled down the unauthorized
monastery, and assisted at the election of a new Abbot.
This is almost the last important act of the Columban
order in Ireland. By the close of the century, the
Dominicans had some thirty houses, and the Franciscans
as many more, whether in the walled towns or the open
country. These monasteries became the refuge of scholars,
during the stormy period we have passed, and in other
days full as troubled, which were to come. Moreover, as
the Irish student, like all others in that age, desired
to travel from school to school, these orders admitted
him to the ranks of widespread European brotherhoods,
from whom he might always claim hospitality. Nor need we
reject as anything incredible the high renown for
scholarship and ability obtained in those times by such
men as Thomas Palmeran of Naas, in the University of
Paris; by Peter and Thomas Hibernicus in the University
of Naples, in the age of Aquinas; by Malachy of Ireland,
a Franciscan, Chaplain to King Edward II. of England,
and Professor at Oxford; by the Danish Dominican, Gotofrid
of Waterford; and above all, by John Scotus of Down, the
subtle doctor, the luminary of the Franciscan schools,
of Paris and Cologne. The native schools of Ireland had
lost their early ascendancy, and are no longer traceable
in our annals; but Irish scholarship, when arrested in
its full development at home, transferred its efforts to
foreign Universities, and there maintained the ancient
honour of the country among the studious "nations" of
Christendom. Among the "nations" involved in the college
riots at Oxford, in the year 1274, we find mention of
the Irish, from which fact it is evident there must have
been a considerable number of natives of that country,
then frequenting the University.

The most distinguished native ecclesiastics of this
century were Matthew O'Heney, Archbishop of Cashel,
originally a Cistercian monk, who died in retirement at
Holy Cross in 1207; Albin O'Mulloy, the opponent of
_Giraldus_, who died Bishop of Ferns in 1222; and Clarus
McMailin, Erenach of Trinity Island, Lough Key-if an
_Erenach_ may be called an ecclesiastic. It was O'Heney
made the Norman who said the Irish Church had no martyrs,
the celebrated answer, that now men had come into the
country who knew so well how to make martyrs, that reproach
would soon be taken away. He is said to have written a
life of Saint Cuthbert of Lindisfarne, and we know that
he had legantine powers at the opening of the century.
The _Erenach_ of Lough Key, who flourished in its second
half, plays an important part in all the western feuds
and campaigns; his guarantee often preserved peace and
protected the vanquished. Among the church-builders of
his age, he stands conspicuous. The ordinary churches
were indeed easily built, seldom exceeding 60 or 70 feet
in length, and one half that width, and the material
still most in use was, for the church proper, timber.
The towers, cashels, or surrounding walls, and the cells
of the religious, as well as the great monasteries and
collegiate and cathedral churches, were of stone, and
many of them remain monuments of the skill and munificence
of their founders.

Of the consequences of the abolition of slavery by the
Council of Armagh, at the close of the twelfth century,
we have no tangible evidence. It is probable that the
slave trade, rather than domestic servitude, was abolished
by that decree. The cultivators of the soil were still
divided into two orders--Biataghs and Brooees. "The
former," says O'Donovan, "who were comparatively few in
number, would appear to have held their lands free of
rent, but were obliged to entertain travellers, and the
chief's soldiers when on their march in his direction;
and the latter (the Brooees) would appear to have been
subject to a stipulated rent and service." From "the Book
of Lecan," a compilation of the fourteenth century, we
learn that the Brooee was required to keep an hundred
labourers, and an hundred of each kind of domestic animals.
Of the rights or wages of the labourers, we believe,
there is no mention made.




BOOK V.

THE ERA OF KING EDWARD BRUCE.


CHAPTER I.

THE RISE OF "THE RED EARL"--RELATIONS OF IRELAND AND
SCOTLAND.

During the half century which comprised the reigns of
Edward I. and II. in England (A.D. 1272 to 1327), Scotland
saw the last of her first race of Kings, and the elevation
of the family of Bruce, under whose brilliant star Ireland
was, for a season, drawn into the mid-current of Scottish
politics. Before relating the incidents of that revolution
of short duration but long enduring consequences, we must
note the rise to greatness of the one great Norman name,
which in that era mainly represented the English interest
and influence in Ireland.

Richard de Burgh, called from his ruddy complexion "the
Red Earl" of Ulster, nobly bred in the court of Henry III.
of England, had attained man's age about the period when
the de Lacys, the Geraldines, de Clares, and other great
Anglo-Irish, families, either through the fortune of war
or failure of issue, were deprived of most of their
natural leaders. Uniting in his own person the blood of
the O'Conors, de Lacys, and de Burghs, his authority was
great from the beginning in Meath and Connaught. In his
inroads on West-Meath he seems to have been abetted by
the junior branches of the de Lacys, who were with his
host in the year 1286, when he besieged Theobald de Verdon
in Athlone, and advanced his banner as far eastward as
the strong town of Trim, upon the Boyne. Laying claim to
the possessions of the Lord of Meath, which touched the
Kildare Geraldines at so many points, he inevitably came
into contact with that powerful family. In 1288, in
alliance with Manus O'Conor, they compelled him to retreat
from Roscommon into Clanrickarde, in Mayo. De Verdon,
his competitor for West-Meath, naturally entered into
alliance with the Kildare Geraldine, and in the year
1294, after many lesser conflicts, they took the Red Earl
and his brother William prisoners, and carried them in
fetters to the Castle of Lea, in Offally. This happened
on the 6th day of December; a Parliament assembled at
Kilkenny on the 12th of March following, ordered their
release; and a peace was made between these powerful
houses. De Burgh gave his two sons as hostages to
Fitzgerald, and the latter surrendered the Castle of
Sligo to de Burgh. From the period of this peace the
power of the last named nobleman outgrew anything that
had been known since the Invasion. In the year 1291, he
banished the O'Donnell out of his territory, and set up
another of his own choosing; he deposed one O'Neil and
raised up another; he so straitened O'Conor in his
patrimony of Roscommon, that that Prince also entered
his camp at Meelick, and gave him hostages. He was thus
the first and only man of his race who had ever had in
his hand the hostages both of Ulster and Connaught. When
the King of England sent writs into Ireland, he usually
addressed the Red Earl, before the Lord Justice or Lord
Deputy--a compliment which, in that ceremonious age,
could not be otherwise than flattering to the pride of
de Burgh. Such was the order of summons, in which, in
the year 1296, he was required by Edward I. to attend
him into Scotland, which was then experiencing some of
the worst consequences of a disputed succession. As
Ireland's interest in this struggle becomes in the sequel
second only to that of Scotland, we must make brief
mention of its origin and progress.

By the accidental death of Alexander III., in 1286, the
McAlpine, or Scoto-Irish dynasty, was suddenly terminated.
Alexander's only surviving child, Margaret, called from
her mother's country, "the Maid of Norway," soon followed
her father; and no less than eight competitors, all
claiming collateral descent from the former Kings, appeared
at the head of as many factions to contest the succession.
This number was, however, soon reduced to two men--John
Baliol and Robert Bruce--the former the grandson of the
eldest, the latter the son of the second daughter of King
David I. After many bickerings these powerful rivals were
induced to refer their claims to the decision of Edward I.
of England, who, in a Great Court held at Berwick in the
year 1292, decided in favour of Baliol, not in the
character of an indifferent arbitrator, but as lord
paramount of Scotland. As such, Baliol there and then
rendered him feudal homage, and became, in the language
of the age, "his man." This sub-sovereignty could not
but be galling to the proud and warlike nobles of Scotland,
and accordingly, finding Edward embroiled about his French
possessions, three years after the decision, they caused
Baliol to enter into an alliance, offensive and defensive,
with Philip IV. of France, against his English suzerain.
The nearer danger compelled Edward to march with 40,000
men, which he had raised for the war in France, towards
the Scottish border, whither he summoned the Earl of
Ulster, the Geraldines, Butlers, de Verdons, de Genvilles,
Berminghams, Poers, Purcells, de Cogans, de Barrys, de
Lacys, d'Exeters, and other minor nobles, to come to him
in his camp early in March, 1296. The Norman-Irish obeyed
the call, but the pride of de Burgh would not permit him
to embark in the train of the Lord Justice Wogan, who
had been also summoned; he sailed with his own forces in
a separate fleet, having conferred the honour of knighthood
on thirty of his younger followers before embarking at
Dublin. Whether these forces arrived in time to take part
in the bloody siege of Berwick, and the panic-route at
Dunbar, does not appear; they were in time, however, to
see the strongest places in Scotland yielded up, and John
Baliol a prisoner on his way to the Tower of London. They
were sumptuously entertained by the conqueror in the
Castle of Roxburgh, and returned to their western homes
deeply impressed with the power of England, and the
puissance of her warrior-king.

But the independence of Scotland was not to be trodden
out in a single campaign. During Edward's absence in
France, William Wallace and other guerilla chiefs arose,
to whom were soon united certain patriot nobles and
bishops. The English deputy de Warrane fought two
unsuccessful campaigns against these leaders, until his
royal master, having concluded peace with France, summoned
his Parliament to meet him at York, and his Norman-Irish
lieges to join him in his northern camp, with all their
forces, on the 1st of March, 1299. In June the English
King found himself at Roxburgh, at the head of 8,000
horse, and 80,000 foot, "chiefly Irish and Welsh." With
this immense force he routed Wallace at Falkirk on the
22nd of July, and reduced him to his original rank of a
guerilla chief, wandering with his bands of partizans
from one fastness to another. The Scottish cause gained
in Pope Boniface VII. a powerful advocate soon after,
and the unsubdued districts continued to obey a Regency
composed of the Bishop of St. Andrews, Robert Bruce,
and John Comyn. These regents exercised their authority
in the name of Baliol, carried on negotiations with France
and Rome, convoked a Parliament, and, among other military
operations, captured Stirling Castle. In the documentary
remains of this great controversy, it is curious to find
Edward claiming the entire island of Britain in virtue
of the legend of Brute the Trojan, and the Scots rejecting
it with scorn, and displaying their true descent and
origin from Scota, the fabled first mother of the Milesian
Irish. There is ample evidence that the claims of kindred
were at this period keenly felt by the Gael of Ireland,
for the people of Scotland, and men of our race are
mentioned among the companions of Wallace and the allies
of Brace. But the Norman-Irish were naturally drawn to
the English banner, and when, in 1303, it was again
displayed north of the Tweed, the usual noble names are
found among its followers. In 1307 Scotland lost her most
formidable foe, by the death of Edward, and at the same
time began to recognize her appointed deliverer in the
person of Robert Bruce. But we must return to "the Red
Earl," the central figure in our own annals during this
half century.

The new King, Edward II., compelled by his English barons
to banish his minion, Gaveston, Earl of Cornwall, had
created him his lieutenant of Ireland, endowed him with
a grant of the royalties of the whole island, to the
prejudice of the Earl and other noblemen. The sojourn of
this brilliant parasite in Ireland lasted but a year--from
June, 1308, till the June following. He displayed both
vigour and munificence, and acquired friends. But the
Red Earl, sharing to the full the antipathy of the great
barons of England, kept apart from his court, maintained
a rival state at Trim, as Commander-in-Chief, conferring
knighthood, levying men, and imposing taxes at his own
discretion. A challenge of battle is said to have passed
between him and the Lieutenant, when the latter was
recalled into England by the King, where he was three
years later put to death by the barons, into whose hands
he had fallen. Sir John Wogan and Sir Edmund Butler
succeeded him in the Irish administration; but the real
power long remained with Richard de Burgh. He was appointed
plenipotentiary to treat with Robert Brace, on behalf of
the King of England, "upon which occasion the Scottish
deputies waited on him in Ireland." In the year 1302
Brace had married his daughter, the Lady Ellen, while of
his other daughters one was Countess of Desmond, and
another became Countess of Kildare in 1312. A thousand
marks--the same sum at which the town and castle of Sligo
were then valued-was allowed by the Earl for the marriage
portion of his last-mentioned daughter. His power and
reputation, about the period of her marriage, were at
the full. He had long held the title of Commander of the
Irish forces, "in Ireland, Scotland, Wales, and Gascony;"
he had successfully resisted Gaveston in the meridian of
his court favour; the father-in-law of a King, and of
Earls of almost royal power, lord paramount of half the
island-such a subject England had not seen on Irish ground
since the Invasion. This prodigious power he retained,
not less by his energy than his munificence. He erected
castles at Carlingford, at Sligo, on the upper Shannon,
and on Lough Foyle. He was a generous patron of the
Carmelite Order, for whom he built the Convent of Loughrea.
He was famed as a princely entertainer, and before retiring
from public affairs, characteristically closed his career
with a magnificent banquet at Kilkenny, where the whole
Parliament were his guests. Having reached an age
bordering upon fourscore he retired to the Monastery of
Athassil, and there expired within sight of his family
vault, after half a century of such sway as was rarely
enjoyed in that age, even by Kings. But before that
peaceful close he was destined to confront a storm the
like of which had not blown over Ireland during the long
period since he first began to perform his part in the
affairs of that kingdom.




CHAPTER II.

THE NORTHERN IRISH ENTER INTO ALLIANCE WITH KING ROBERT
BRUCE--ARRIVAL AND FIRST CAMPAIGN OF EDWARD BRUCE.

No facts of the ages over which we have already passed
are better authenticated than the identity of origin and
feeling which existed between the Celts of Erin and of
Albyn. Nor was this sympathy of race diminished by their
common dangers from a common enemy. On the eve of the
Norman invasion we saw how heartily the Irish were with
Somerled and the men of Moray in resisting the feudal
polity of the successors of Malcolm _Caen-More_. As the
Plantagenet Princes in person led their forces against
Scotland, the interest of the Irish, especially those of
the North, increased, year by year, in the struggles of
the Scots. Irish adherents followed the fortunes of
Wallace to the close; and when Robert Bruce, after being
crowned and seated in the chair of the McAlpin line, on
the summit of the hill of Scone, had to flee into exile,
he naturally sought refuge where he knew he would find
friends. Accompanied by three of his brothers, several
adherents, and even by some of the females of his family,
he steered, in the autumn of 1306, for the little island
of Rathlin--seven miles long by a mile wide--one point
of which is within three miles of the Antrim beach. In
its most populous modern day Rathlin contained not above
1,000 souls, and little wonder if its still smaller
population, five centuries ago, fled in terror at the
approach of Bruce. They were, however, soon disarmed of
their fears, and agreed to supply the fugitive King daily
with provisions for 300 persons, the whole number who
accompanied or followed him into exile. His faithful
adherents soon erected for him a castle, commanding one
of the few landing places on the island, the ruins of
which are still shown to strangers as "Bruce's Castle."
Here he passed in perfect safety the winter of 1306,
while his emissaries were recruiting in Ulster, or passing
to and fro, in the intervals of storm, among the western
islands. Without waiting for the spring to come round
again, they issued from their retreat in different
directions; one body of 700 Irish sailed under Thomas
and Alexander, the King's brothers, for the Clyde, while
Robert and Edward took the more direct passage towards
the coast of Argyle, and, after many adventures, found
themselves strong enough to attack the foreign forces in
Perth and Ayrshire. The opportune death of Edward of
England the same summer, and the civil strife bred by
his successor's inordinate favour towards Gaveston,
enabled the Bruces gradually to root out the internal
garrisons of their enemies; but the party that had sailed,
under the younger brothers, from Rathlin, were attacked
and captured in Loch Ryan by McDowell, and the survivors
of the engagement, with Thomas and Alexander Bruce, were
carried prisoners to Carlisle and there put to death.

The seven years' war of Scottish independence was drawn
to a close by the decisive campaign of 1314. The second
Edward prepared an overwhelming force for this expedition,
summoning, as usual, the Norman-Irish Earls, and inviting
in different language his "beloved" cousins, the native
Irish Chiefs, not only such as had entered into English
alliances at any time, but also notorious allies of Bruce,
like O'Neil, O'Donnell, and O'Kane. These writs were
generally unheeded; we have no record of either Norman-Irish
or native-Irish Chief having responded to Edward's summons,
nor could nobles so summoned have been present without
some record remaining of the fact. On the contrary all
the wishes of the old Irish went with the Scots, and the
Normans were more than suspected of leaning the same way.
Twenty-one clans, Highlanders and Islemen, and many
Ulstermen, fought on the side of Bruce, on the field of
Bannockburn; the grant of "Kincardine-O'Neil," made by
the victor-King to his Irish followers, remains a striking
evidence of their fidelity to his person, and their
sacrifices in his cause. The result of that glorious day
was, by the testimony of all historians, English as well
as Scottish, received with enthusiasm on the Irish side
of the channel.

Whether any understanding had been come to between the
northern Irish and Bruce, during his sojourn in Rathlin,
or whether the victory of Bannockburn suggested the
design, Edward Bruce, the gallant companion of all his
brother's fortunes and misfortunes, was now invited to
place himself at the head of the men of Ulster, in a war
for Irish independence. He was a soldier of not inferior
fame to his brother for courage and fortitude, though he
had never exhibited the higher qualities of general and
statesman which crowned the glory of King Robert. Yet as
he had never held a separate command of consequence, his
rashness and obstinacy, though well known to his intimates,
were lost sight of, at a distance, by those who gazed
with admiration on the brilliant achievements, in which
he had certainly borne the second part. The chief mover
in the negotiation by which this gallant soldier was
brought to embark his fortunes in an Irish war, was
Donald, Prince of Ulster. This Prince, whose name is so
familiar from his celebrated remonstrance addressed to
Pope John XXII., was son of King Brian of the battle of
Down, who, half a century before, at the Conference of
Caeluisge, was formally chosen Ard-Righ, by the nobles
of three Provinces. He had succeeded to the principality
--not without a protracted struggle with the Red Earl
--some twenty years before the date of the battle of
Bannockburn. Endued with an intensely national spirit,
he seems to have fully adopted the views of Nicholas
McMaelisa, the Primate of Armagh, his early cotemporary.
This Prelate--one of the most resolute opponents of the
Norman conquest--had constantly refused to instal any
foreigner in a northern diocese. When the Chapter of
Ardagh delayed their election, he nominated a suitable
person to the Holy See; when the See of Meath was distracted
between two national parties he installed his nominee;
when the Countess of Ulster caused Edward I. to issue
his writ for the installation of John, Bishop of Conor,
he refused his acquiescence. He left nearly every See
in his Province, at the time of his decease (the year
1303), under the administration of a native ecclesiastic;
a dozen years before he had established a formal
"association" among the Prelates at large, by which they
bound themselves to resist the interference of the Kings
of England in the nomination of Bishops, and to be subject
only to the sanction of the See of Rome. In the Provinces
of Cashel and Tuam, in the fourteenth century, we do not
often find a foreign born Bishop; even in Leinster double
elections and double delegations to Rome, show how deeply
the views of the patriotic Nicholas McMaelisa had seized
upon the clergy of the next age. It was Donald O'Neil's
darling project to establish a unity of action against
the common enemy among the chiefs, similar to that which
the Primate had brought about among the Bishops. His own
pretensions to the sovereignty were greater than that of
any Prince of his age; his house had given more monarchs
to the island than any other; his father had been
acknowledged by the requisite majority; his courage,
patriotism, and talents, were admittedly equal to the
task. But he felt the utter impossibility of conciliating
that fatal family pride, fed into extravagance by Bards
and Senachies, which we have so often pointed out as the
worst consequence of the Celtic system. He saw chiefs,
proud of their lineage and their name, submit to serve
a foreign Earl of Ulster, who refused homage to the native
Prince of Ulster; he saw the seedlings of a vice of which
we have seen the fruit--that his countrymen would submit
to a stranger rather than to one of themselves, and he
reasoned, not unnaturally, that, by the hand of some
friendly stranger, they might be united and liberated.
The attempt of Edward Bruce was a failure, and was followed
by many disasters; but a more patriotic design, or one
with fairer omens of success, could not have entered the
mind or heart of a native Prince, after the event of the
battle at Bannockburn. Edward of England, having
intelligence of the negotiations on foot between the
Irish and Scots, after his great defeat, summoned over
to Windsor during the winter, de Burgh, Fitzgerald, de
Verdon, and Edmund Butler, the Lord Deputy. After conferring
with them, and confirming Butler in his office, they were
despatched back in all haste to defend their country.
Nor was there time to lose. Edward Bruce, with his usual
impetuosity, without waiting for his full armament, had
sailed from Ayr with 6,000 men in 300 galleys, accompanied
by Thomas Randolph, Earl of Moray, Sir John Stuart, Sir
Philip Moubray, Sir Fergus of Ardrossan, and other
distinguished knights. He landed on the 25th day of May,
1315, in the Glendun river, near Glenarm, and was promptly
joined by Donald O'Neil, and twelve other chiefs. Their
first advance was from the coast towards that angle of
Lough Neagh, near which stands the town of Antrim. Here,
at Rathmore, in the plain of Moylinny, they were attacked
by the Mandevilles and Savages of the Ards of Down, whom
they defeated. From Antrim they continued their route
evidently towards Dublin, taking Dundalk and Ardee, after
a sharp resistance. At Ardee they were but 35 miles
north of Dublin, easy of conquest, if they had been
provided with siege trains--which it seemed they were not.

While Bruce and O'Neil were coming up from the north,
Hugh O'Donnell, lord of Tyrconnell, as if to provide
occupation for the Earl of Ulster, attacked and sacked
the castle and town of Sligo, and wasted the adjacent
country. The Earl, on hearing of the landing of the Scots,
had mustered his forces at Athlone, and compelled the
unwilling attendance of Felim O'Conor, with his clansmen.
From Athlone he directed his march towards Drogheda,
where he arrived with "20 cohorts," about the same time
that the Lord Deputy Butler came up with "30 cohorts."
Bruce, unprepared to meet so vast a force--taken together
some 25,000 or 30,000 men--retreated slowly towards his
point of debarkation. De Burgh, who, as Commander-in-Chief,
took precedence in the field of the Lord Deputy, ordered
the latter to protect Meath and Leinster, while he pursued
the enemy. Bruce, having despatched the Earl of Moray to
his brother, was now anxious to hold some northern position
where they could most easily join him. He led de Burgh,
therefore, into the North of Antrim, thence across the
Bann at Coleraine, breaking down the bridge at that point.
Here the armies encamped for some days, separated by the
river, the outposts occasionally indulging in a "shooting
of arrows." By negotiation, Bruce and O'Neil succeeded
in detaching O'Conor from de Burgh. Under the plea--which
really had sufficient foundation--of suppressing an
insurrection headed by one of his rivals, O'Conor returned
to his own country. No sooner had he left than Bruce
assumed the offensive, and it was now the Red Earl's turn
to fall back. They retreated towards the castle of Conyre
(probably Conor, near Ballymena, in Antrim), where an
engagement was fought, in which de Burgh was defeated,
his brother William, Sir John Mandeville, and several
other knights being taken prisoners. The Earl continued
his retreat through Meath towards his own possession;
Bruce followed, capturing in succession Granard, Fenagh,
and Kells, celebrating his Christmas at Loughsweedy, in
West-Meath, in the midst of the most considerable chiefs
of Ulster, Meath, and Connaught. It was probably at this
stage of his progress that he received the adhesion of
the junior branches of the Lacys--the chief Norman family
that openly joined his standard.

This termination of his first campaign on Irish soil
might be considered highly favourable to Bruce. More than
half the clans had risen, and others were certain to
follow their example; the clergy were almost wholly with
him; and his heroic brother had promised to lead an army
to his aid in the ensuing spring.




CHAPTER III.

BRUCE'S SECOND CAMPAIGN, AND CORONATION AT DUNDALK--THE
RISING IN CONNAUGHT--BATTLE OF ATHENRY-ROBERT BRUCE IN
IRELAND.

From Loughsweedy, Bruce broke up his quarters, and marched
into Kildare, encamping successively at Naas, Kildare,
and Rathangan. Advancing in a southerly direction, he
found an immense, but disorderly Anglo-Irish host drawn
out, at the moat of Ardscull, near Athy, to dispute his
march. They were commanded by the Lord Justice Butler,
the Baron of Offally, the Lord Arnold Poer, and other
magnates; but so divided were these proud Peers, in
authority and in feeling, that, after a severe skirmish
with Bruce's vanguard, in which some knights were killed
on both sides, they retreated before the Hiberno-Scottish
army, which continued its march unmolested, and took
possession of Castledermot.

Animated by these successes, won in their midst, the
clans of Leinster began in succession to raise their
heads. The tribes of Wicklow, once possessors of the
fertile plains to the east and west, rallied in the
mountain glens to which they had been driven, and commenced
that long guerilla war, which centuries only were to
extinguish. The McMurroghs along the ridge of Leinster,
and all their kindred upon the Barrow and the Slaney,
mustered under a chief, against whom the Lord Justice
was compelled to march in person, later in the campaign
of 1316. The Lord of Dunamase was equally sanguine, but
800 men of the name of O'Moore, slain in one disastrous
encounter, crippled for the time the military strength
of that great house. Having thus kindled the war, in the
very heart of Leinster, Bruce retraced his march through
Meath and Louth, and held at Dundalk that great assembly
in which he was solemnly elected King of Ireland. Donald
O'Neil, by letters patent, as son of Brian "of the battle
of Down," the last acknowledged native king, formally
resigned his right, in favour of Bruce, a proceeding which
he defends in his celebrated letter to Pope John XXII.,
where he speaks of the new sovereign as the illustrious
Earl of Carrick, Edward de Bruce, a nobleman descended
from the same ancestors with themselves, whom they had
called to their aid, and freely chosen as their king and
lord. The ceremony of inauguration seems to have been
performed in the Gaelic fashion, on the hill of
Knocknemelan, within a mile of Dundalk, while the solemn
consecration took place in one of the churches of the
town. Surrounded by all the external marks of royalty,
Bruce established his court in the castle of Northburgh
(one of de Courcy's or de Verdon's fortresses), adjoining
Dundalk, where he took cognizance of all pleas that were
brought before him. At that moment his prospects compared
favourably with those of his illustrious brother a few
years earlier. The Anglo-Irish were bitterly divided
against each other; while, according to their joint
declaration of loyalty, signed before de Hothun, King
Edward's special agent, "all the Irish of Ireland, several
great lords, and many English people," had given in their
adhesion to Bruce. In Ulster, except Carrickfergus, no
place of strength remained in the hands of any subject
of Edward of England. The arrival of supplies from Scotland
enabled Bruce to resume that siege in the autumn of 1316,
and the castle, after a heroic defence by Sir Thomas de
Mandeville, was surrendered in mid-winter. Here, in the
month of February, 1317, the new King of Ireland had the
gratification of welcoming his brother of Scotland, at
the head of a powerful auxiliary force, and here, according
to Barbour's _Chronicle_, they feasted for three days,
in mirth and jollity, before entering on the third campaign
of this war.

We have before mentioned that one of the first successes
obtained by Bruce was through the withdrawal of Felim
O'Conor from the Red Earl's alliance. The Prince thus
won over to what may be fairly called the national cause,
had just then attained his majority, and his martial
accomplishments reflected honour on his fosterer, McDermott
of Moylurg, while they filled with confidence the hearts
of his own clansmen. After his secession from de Burgh
at Coleraine, he had spent a whole year in suppressing
the formidable rival who had risen to dispute his title.
Several combats ensued between their respective adherents,
but at length Roderick, the pretender, was defeated and
slain, and Felim turned all his energies to co-operate
with Bruce, by driving the foreigner out of his own
province. Having secured the assistance of all the chief
tribes of the west, and established the ancient supremacy
of his house over Breffni, he first attacked the town of
Ballylahen, in Mayo, the seat of the family of de Exeter,
slew Slevin de Exeter, the lord de Cogan, and other
knights and barons, and plundered the town. At the
beginning of August in the same year, in pursuance of
his plan, Felim mustered the most numerous force which
Connaught had sent forth, since the days of Cathal More.
Under his leadership marched the Prince of Meath, the
lords of Breffni, Leyny, Annally, Teffia, Hy-Many, and
Hy-Fiachra, with their men. The point of attack was the
town of Athenry, the chief fortified stronghold of the
de Burghs and Berminghams in that region. Its importance
dated from the reign of King John; it had been enriched
with convents and strengthened by towers; it was besides
the burial place of the two great Norman families just
mentioned, and their descendants felt that before the
walls of Athenry their possessions were to be confirmed
to them by their own valour, or lost for ever. A decisive
battle was fought on St. Laurence's day--the 10th of
August--in which the steel-clad Norman battalion once
more triumphed over the linen-shirted clansmen of the
west. The field was contested with heroic obstinacy; no
man gave way; none thought of asking or giving quarter.
The standard bearer, the personal guard, and the Brehon
of O'Conor fell around him. The lords of Hy-Many, Teffia,
and Leyny, the heir of the house of Moylurg, with many
other chiefs, and, according to the usual computation,
8,000 men were slain. Felim O'Conor himself, in the
twenty-third year of his age, and the very morning of
his fame, fell with the rest, and his kindred, the
Sil-Murray, were left for a season an easy prey to William
de Burgh and John de Bermingham, the joint commanders in
the battle. The spirit of exaggeration common in most
accounts of killed and wounded, has described this day
as fatal to the name and race of O'Conor, who are
represented as cut off to a man in the conflict; the
direct line which Felim represented was indeed left
without an immediate adult representative; but the
offshoots of that great house had spread too far and
flourished too vigorously to be shorn away, even by so
terrible a blow as that dealt at Athenry. The very next
year we find chiefs of the name making some figure in
the wars of their own province, but it is observable that
what may be called the national party in Connaught for
some time after Athenry, looked to McDermott of Moylurg
as their most powerful leader.

The moral effect of the victory of Athenry was hardly to
be compensated for by the capture of Carrickfergus the
next winter. It inspired the Anglo-Irish with new courage.
De Bermingham was created commander-in-chief. The citizens
of Dublin burned their suburbs to strengthen their means
of defence. Suspecting the zeal of the Red Earl, so
nearly connected with the Bruces by marriage, their Mayor
proceeded to Saint Mary's abbey, where he lodged, arrested
and confined him to the castle. To that building the
Bermingham tower was added about this time, and the
strength of the whole must have been great when the
skilful leaders, who had carried Stirling and Berwick,
abandoned the siege of Dublin as hopeless. In Easter
week, 1317, Roger Mortimer, afterwards Earl of March,
nearly allied to the English King on the one hand, and
maternally descended from the Marshals and McMurroghs on
the other, arrived at Youghal, as Lord Justice, released
the Earl of Ulster on reaching Dublin, and prepared to
dispute the progress of the Bruces towards the South.

The royal brothers had determined, according to their
national Bard, to take their way with all their host,
from one cud of Ireland to the other. Their destination
was Munster, which populous province had not yet ratified
the recent election. Ulster and Meath were with them;
Connaught, by the battle of Athenry, was rendered incapable
of any immediate effort, and therefore Edward Bruce, in
true Gaelic fashion, decided to proceed on his royal
visitation, and so secure the hostages of the southern
half-kingdom. At the head of 20,000 men, in two divisions,
the brothers marched from Carrickfergus; meeting, with
the exception of a severe skirmish in a wood near Slane,
with no other molestation till they approached the very
walls of Dublin. Finding the place stronger than they
expected, or unwilling to waste time at that season of
the year, the Hiberno-Scottish army, after occupying
Castleknock, turned up the valley of the Liffey, and
encamped for four days by the pleasant waterfall of
Leixlip. From Leixlip to Naas they traversed the estates
of one of their active foes, the new made Earl of Kildare,
and from Naas they directed their march to Callan in
Ossory, taking special pleasure, according to Anglo-Irish
Annals, in harrying the lands of another enemy, the Lord
Butler, afterwards Earl of Ormond. From Callan their
route lay to Cashel and Limerick, at each of which they
encamped two or three days without seeing the face of an
enemy. But if they encountered no enemies in Minister,
neither did they make many friends by their expedition.
It seems that on further acquaintance rivalries and
enmities sprung up between the two nations who composed
the army; that Edward Bruce, while styling himself King
of Ireland, acted more like a vigorous conqueror exhausting
his enemies, than a prudent Prince careful for his friends
and adherents. His army is accused, in terms of greater
vehemence than are usually employed in our cautious
chronicles, of plundering churches and monasteries, and
even violating the tombs of the dead in search of buried
treasure. The failure of the harvest, added to the effect
of a threefold war, had so diminished the stock of food
that numbers perished of famine, and this dark, indelible
remembrance was, by an arbitrary notion of cause and
effect, inseparably associated in the popular mind, both
English and Irish, with the Scottish invasion. One fact
is clear, that the election of Dundalk was not popular
in Munster, and that the chiefs of Thomond and Desmond
were uncommitted, if not hostile towards Bruce's
sovereignty. McCarthy and O'Brien seized the occasion,
indeed, while he was campaigning in the North, to root
out the last representative of the family of de Clare,
as we have already related, when tracing the fortunes of
the Normans in Munster. But of the twelve reguli, or
Princes in Bruce's train, none are mentioned as having
come from the Southern provinces.

This visitation of Munster occupied the months of February
and March. In April, the Lord Justice Mortimer summoned
a Parliament at Kilkenny, and there, also, the whole
Anglo-Irish forces, to the number of 30,000 men, were
assembled. The Bruces on their return northward might
easily have been intercepted, or the genius which triumphed
at Bannockburn might have been as conspicuously signalized
on Irish ground. But the military authorities were waiting
orders from the Parliament, and the Parliament were at
issue with the new Justice, and so the opportunity was
lost. Early in May, the Hiberno-Scottish army re-entered
Ulster, by nearly the same route as they had taken going
southwards, and King Robert soon after returned into
Scotland, promising faithfully to rejoin his brother, as
soon as he disposed of his own pressing affairs. The King
of England in the meantime, in consternation at the news
from Ireland, applied to the Pope, then at Avignon, to
exercise his influence with the Clergy and Chiefs of
Ireland, for the preservation of the English interest in
that country. It was in answer to the Papal rescripts so
procured that Donald O'Neil despatched his celebrated
Remonstrance, which the Pontiff enclosed to Edward II.,
with an urgent recommendation that the wrongs therein
recited might be atoned for, and avoided in the future.




CHAPTER IV.

BATTLE OF FAUGHARD AND DEATH OF KING EDWARD BRUCE--
CONSEQUENCES OF HIS INVASION--EXTINCTION OF THE EARLDOM
OF ULSTER--IRISH OPINION OF EDWARD BRUCE.

It is too commonly the fashion, as well with historians
as with others, to glorify the successful and censure
severely the unfortunate. No such feeling actuates us
in speaking of the character of Edward Bruce, King of
Ireland. That he was as gallant a knight as any in that
age of gallantry, we know; that he could confront the
gloomiest aspect of adversity with cheerfulness, we also
know. But the united testimony, both of history and
tradition, in his own country, so tenacious of its
anecdotical treasures, describes him as rash, headstrong,
and intractable, beyond all the captains of his time.
And in strict conformity with this character is the
closing scene of his Irish career.

The harvest had again failed in 1317, and enforced a
melancholy sort of truce between all the belligerents.
The scarcity was not confined to Ireland, but had severely
afflicted England and Scotland, compelling their rulers
to bestow a momentary attention on the then abject class,
the tillers of the soil. But the summer of 1318 brightened
above more prosperous fields, from which no sooner had
each party snatched or purchased his share of the produce,
than the war-note again resounded through all the four
Provinces. On the part of the Anglo-Irish, John de
Bermingham was confirmed as Commander-in-Chief, and
departed from Dublin with, according to the chronicles
of the Pale, but 2,000 chosen troops, while the Scottish
biographer of the Bruces gives him "20,000 trapped horse."
The latter may certainly be considered an exaggerated
account, and the former must be equally incorrect. Judged
by the other armaments of that period, from the fact that
the Normans of Meath, under Sir Miles de Verdon and Sir
Richard Tuit, were in his ranks, and that he then held
the rank of Commander-in-Chief of all the English forces
in Ireland, it is incredible that de Bermingham should
have crossed the Boyne with less than eight or ten thousand
men. Whatever the number may have been, Bruce resolved
to risk the issue of battle contrary to the advice of
all his officers, and without awaiting the reinforcements
hourly expected from Scotland, and which shortly after
the engagement did arrive. The native chiefs of Ulster,
whose counsel was also to avoid a pitched battle, seeing
their opinions so lightly valued, are said to have
withdrawn from Dundalk. There remained with the iron-headed
King the Lords Moubray, de Soulis, and Stewart, with the
three brothers of the latter; MacRory, lord of the Isles,
and McDonald, chief of his clan. The neighbourhood of
Dundalk, the scene of his triumphs and coronation, was
to be the scene of this last act of Bruce's chivalrous
and stormy career.

On the 14th of October, 1318, at the hill of Faughard,
within a couple of miles of Dundalk, the advance guard
of the hostile armies came into the presence of each
other, and made ready for battle. Roland de Jorse, the
foreign Archbishop of Armagh--who had not been able to
take possession of his see, though appointed to it seven
years before--accompanied the Anglo-Irish, and moving
through their ranks, gave his benediction to their banners.
But the impetuosity of Bruce gave little time for
preparation. At the head of the vanguard, without waiting
for the whole of his company to come up, he charged the
enemy with impetuosity. The action became general, and
the skill of de Bermingham as a leader was again
demonstrated. An incident common to the warfare of that
age was, however, the immediate cause of the victory.
Master John de Maupas, a burgher of Dundalk, believing
that the death of the Scottish leader would be the signal
for the retreat of his followers, disguised as a jester
or fool, sought him throughout the field. One of the
royal esquires, named Gilbert Harper, wearing the surcoat
of his master, was mistaken for him, and slain; but the
true leader was at length found by de Maupas, and struck
down with the blow of a leaden plummet or slung-shot.
After the battle, when the field was searched for his
body, it was found under that of de Maupas, who had
bravely yielded up life for life. The Hiberno-Scottish
forces dispersed in dismay, and when King Robert of
Scotland landed a day or two afterwards, he was met by
the fugitive men of Carrick, under their leader Thompson,
who informed him of his brother's fate. He returned at
once into his own country, carrying off the few Scottish
survivors. The head of the impetuous Edward was sent to
London; but the body was interred in the churchyard of
Faughard, where, within living memory, a tall pillar
stone was pointed out by every peasant of the neighbourhood
as marking the grave of "King Bruce."

The fortunes of the principal actors, native and Norman,
in the invasion of Edward Bruce, may be briefly recounted
before closing this book of our history, John de Bermingham,
created for his former victory Baron of Athenry, had now
the Earldom of Louth conferred on him with a royal pension.
He promptly followed up his blow at Faughard by expelling
Donald O'Neil, the mainspring of the invasion, from
Tyrone; but Donald, after a short sojourn among the
mountains of Fermanagh, returned during the winter and
resumed his lordship, though he never wholly recovered
from the losses he had sustained. The new Earl of Louth
continued to hold the rank of Commander-in-Chief in
Ireland, to which he added in 1322 that of Lord Justice.
He was slain in 1329, with some 200 of his personal
adherents, in an affair with the natives of his new
earldom, at a place called Ballybeagan. He left by a
daughter of the Earl of Ulster three daughters; the title
was perpetuated in the family of his brothers.

In 1319, the Earls of Kildare and Louth, and the Lord
Arnold le Poer, were appointed a commission to inquire
into all treasons committed in Ireland during Bruce's
invasion. Among other outlawries they decreed those of
the three de Lacys, the chiefs of their name, in Meath
and Ulster. That illustrious family, however, survived
even this last confiscation, and their descendants,
several centuries later, were large proprietors in the
midland counties.

Three years after the battle of Faughard, died Roland de
Jorse, Archbishop of Armagh, it was said, of vexations
arising out of Bruce's war, and other difficulties which
beset him in taking possession of his see. Adam, Bishop
of Ferns, was deprived of his revenues for taking part
with Bruce, and the Friars Minor of the Franciscan order,
were severely censured in a Papal rescript for their zeal
on the same side.

The great families of Fitzgerald and Butler obtained
their earldoms of Kildare, Desmond, and Ormond, out of
this dangerous crisis, but the premier earldom of Ulster
disappeared from our history soon afterwards. Richard,
the Red Earl, having died in the Monastery of Athassil,
in 1326, was succeeded by his son, William, who, seven
years later, in consequence of a family feud, instigated
by one of his own female relatives, Gilla de Burgh, wife
of Walter de Mandeville, was murdered at the Fords, near
Carrickfergus, in the 21st year of his age. His wife,
Maud, daughter of Henry Plantagenet, Earl of Lancaster,
fled into England with her infant, afterwards married to
Lionel, Duke of Clarence, son of King Edward III., who
thus became personally interested in the system which he
initiated by the odious Statute of Kilkenny. But the
misfortunes of the Red Earl's posterity did not end with
the murder of his immediate successor. Edmond, his
surviving son, five years subsequently, was seized by
his cousin, Edmond, the son of William, and drowned in
Lough Mask, with a stone about his neck. The posterity
of William de Burgh then assumed the name of McWilliam,
and renounced the laws, language, and allegiance of
England. Profiting by their dissensions, Turlogh O'Conor,
towards the middle of the century, asserted supremacy
over them, thus practising against the descendants the
same policy which the first de Burghs had successfully
employed among the sons of Roderick.

We must mention here a final consequence of Edward Bruce's
invasion seldom referred to,--namely, the character of
the treaty between Scotland and England, concluded and
signed at Edinburgh, on St. Patrick's Day, 1328. By this
treaty, after arranging an intermarriage between the
royal families, it was stipulated in the event of a
rebellion against Scotland, in Skye, Man, or the Islands,
or against England, in Ireland, that the several Kings
would not abet or assist each other's rebel subjects.
Remembering this article, we know not what to make of
the entry in our own Annals, which states that Robert
Bruce landed at Carrickfergus in the same year, 1328,
"and sent word to the Justiciary and Council, that he
came to make peace between Ireland and Scotland, and that
he would meet them at Green Castle; but that the latter
failing to meet him, he returned to Scotland." This,
however, we know: high hopes were entertained, and immense
sacrifices were made, for Edward Bruce, but were made in
vain. His proverbial rashness in battle, with his total
disregard of the opinion of the country into which he
came, alienated from him those who were at first disposed
to receive him with enthusiasm. It may be an instructive
lesson to such as look to foreign leaders and foreign
forces for the means of national deliverance to read the
terms in which the native Annalists record the defeat
and death of Edward Bruce: "No achievement had been
performed in Ireland, for a long time," say the Four
Masters, "from which greater benefit had accrued to the
country than from this." "There was not a better deed
done in Ireland since the banishment of the Formorians,"
says the Annalist of Clonmacnoise! So detested may a
foreign liberating chief become, who outrages the feelings
and usages of the people he pretends, or really means to
emancipate!




BOOK VI.

THE NATIVE, THE NATURALIZED, AND "THE ENGLISH INTEREST."


CHAPTER I.

CIVIL WAR IN ENGLAND--ITS EFFECTS ON THE ANGLO-IRISH--
THE KNIGHTS OF SAINT JOHN--GENERAL DESIRE OF THE ANGLO-IRISH
TO NATURALIZE THEMSELVES AMONG THE NATIVE POPULATION--
A POLICY OF NON-INTERCOURSE BETWEEN THE RACES RESOLVED ON
IN ENGLAND.

The closing years of the reign of Edward II. of England
were endangered by the same partiality for favourites
which, had disturbed its beginning. The de Spensers,
father and son, played at this period the part which
Gaveston had performed twenty years earlier. The Barons,
who undertook to rid their country of this pampered
family, had, however, at their head Queen Isabella, sister
of the King of France, who had separated from her husband
under a pretended fear of violence at his hands, but in
reality to enjoy more freely her criminal intercourse
with her favourite, Mortimer. With the aid of French and
Flemish mercenaries, they compelled the unhappy Edward
to fly from London to Bristol, whence he was pursued,
captured, and after being confined for several months in
different fortresses, was secretly murdered in the autumn
of 1327, by thrusting a red hot iron into his bowels.
His son, Edward, a lad of fifteen years of age, afterwards
the celebrated Edward III., was proclaimed King, though
the substantial power remained for some years longer with
Queen Isabella, and her paramour, now elevated to the
rank of Earl of March. In the year 1330, however, their
guilty prosperity was brought to a sudden close; Mortimer
was seized by surprise, tried by his peers, and executed
at Tyburn; Isabella was imprisoned for life, and the
young King, at the age of eighteen, began in reality that
reign, which, through half a century's continuance, proved
so glorious and advantageous for England.

It will be apparent that during the last few years of
the second, and under the minority of the third Edward,
the Anglo-Irish Barons would be left to pursue undisturbed
their own particular interests and enmities. The renewal
of war with Scotland, on the death of King Robert Bruce,
and the subsequent protracted wars with France, which
occupied, with some intervals of truce, nearly thirty
years of the third Edward's reign, left ample time for
the growth of abuses of every description among the
descendants of those who had invaded Ireland, under the
pretext of its reformation, both in morals and government.
The contribution of an auxiliary force to aid him in his
foreign wars was all the warlike King expected from his
lords of Ireland, and at so cheap a price they were well
pleased to hold their possessions under his guarantee.
At Halidon hill the Anglo-Irish, led by Sir John Darcy,
distinguished themselves against the Scots in 1333; and
at the siege of Calais, under the Earls of Kildare and
Desmond, they acquired additional reputation in 1347.
From this time forward it became a settled maxim of
English policy to draft native troops out of Ireland for
foreign service, and to send English soldiers into it in
times of emergency.

In the very year when the tragedy of Edward the Second's
deposition and death was enacted in England, a drama of
a lighter kind was performed among his new made earls in
Ireland. The Lord Arnold le Poer gave mortal offence to
Maurice, first Earl of Desmond, by calling him "a Rhymer,"
a term synonymous with poetaster. To make good his
reputation as a Bard, the Earl summoned his allies, the
Butlers and Berminghams, while le Poer obtained the aid
of his maternal relatives, the de Burghs, and several
desperate conflicts took place between them. The Earl of
Kildare, then deputy, summoned both parties to meet him
at Kilkenny, but le Poer and William de Burgh fled into
England, while the victors, instead of obeying the deputy's
summons, enjoyed themselves in ravaging his estate. The
following year (A.D. 1328), le Poer and de Burgh returned
from England, and were reconciled with Desmond and Ormond
by the mediation of the new deputy, Roger Outlaw, Prior
of the Knights of the Hospital at Kilmainham. In honour
of this reconciliation de Burgh gave a banquet at the
castle, and Maurice of Desmond reciprocated by another
the next day, in St. Patrick's Church, though it was
then, as the Anglo-Irish Annalist remarks, the penitential
season of Lent. A work of peace and reconciliation,
calculated to spare the effusion of Christian blood, may
have been thought some justification for this irreverent
use of a consecrated edifice.

The mention of the Lord Deputy, Sir Roger Outlaw, the
second Prior of his order though not the last, who wielded
the highest political power over the English settlements,
naturally leads to the mention of the establishment in
Ireland, of the illustrious orders of the Temple and the
Hospital. The first foundation of the elder order is
attributed to Strongbow, who erected for them a castle
at Kilmainham, on the high ground to the south of the
Liffey, about a mile distant from the Danish wall of old
Dublin. Here, the Templars flourished, for nearly a
century and a half, until the process for their suppression
was instituted under Edward II., in 1308. Thirty members
of the order were imprisoned and examined in Dublin,
before three Dominican inquisitors--Father Richard Balbyn,
Minister of the Order of St. Dominick in Ireland, Fathers
Philip de Slane and Hugh de St. Leger. The decision
arrived at was the same as in France and England; the
order was condemned and suppressed; and their Priory of
Kilmainham, with sixteen benefices in the diocese of
Dublin, and several others, in Ferns, Meath, and Dromore,
passed to the succeeding order, in 1311. The state
maintained by the Priors of Kilmainham, in their capacious
residence, often rivalled that of the Lords Justices.
But though their rents were ample, they did not collect
them without service. Their house might justly be regarded
as an advanced fortress on the south side of the city,
constantly open to attacks from the mountain tribes of
Wicklow. Although their vows were for the Holy Land, they
were ever ready to march at the call of the English
Deputies, and their banner, blazoned with the _Agnus
Dei_, waved over the bloodiest border frays of the
fourteenth century. The Priors of Kilmainham sat as Barons
in the Parliaments of "the Pale," and the office was
considered the first in ecclesiastical rank among the
regular orders.

During the second quarter of this century, an extraordinary
change became apparent in the manners and customs of the
descendants of the Normans, Flemings, and Cambrians,
whose ancestors an hundred years earlier were strangers
in the land. Instead of intermarrying exclusively among
themselves, the prevailing fashion became to seek for
Irish wives, and to bestow their daughters on Irish
husbands. Instead of clinging to the language of Normandy
or England, they began to cultivate the native speech of
the country. Instead of despising Irish law, every nobleman
was now anxious to have his Brehon, his Bard, and his
Senachie. The children of the Barons were given to be
fostered by Milesian mothers, and trained in the early
exercises so minutely prescribed by Milesian education.
Kildare, Ormond, and Desmond, adopted the old military
usages of exacting "coyne and livery"--horse meat and
man's meat--from their feudal tenants. The tie of Gossipred,
one of the most fondly cherished by the native population,
was multiplied between the two races, and under the wise
encouragement of a domestic dynasty might have become a
powerful bond of social union. In Connaught and Munster
where the proportion of native to naturalized was largest,
the change was completed almost in a generation, and
could never afterwards be wholly undone. In Ulster the
English element in the population towards the end of this
century was almost extinct, but in Meath and Leinster,
and that portion of Munster immediately bordering on
Meath and Leinster, the process of amalgamation required
more time than the policy of the Kings of England allowed
it to obtain.

The first step taken to counteract their tendency to
_Hibernicize_ themselves, was to bestow additional honours
on the great families. The baronry of Offally was enlarged
into the earldom of Kildare; the lordship of Carrick into
the earldom of Ormond; the title of Desmond was conferred
on Maurice Fitz-Thomas Fitzgerald, and that of Louth on
the Baron de Bermingham. Nor were they empty honours;
they were accompanied with something better. The "royal
liberties" were formally conceded, in no less than nine
great districts, to their several lords. Those of Carlow,
Wexford, Kilkenny, Kildare, and Leix, had been inherited
by the heirs of the Earl Marshal's five daughters; four
other counties Palatine were now added--Ulster, Meath,
Ormond, and Desmond. "The absolute lords of those
palatinates," says Sir John Davis, "made barons and
knights, exercised high justice within all their
territories; erected courts for civil and criminal causes,
and for their own revenues, in the same form in which
the king's courts were established at Dublin; they
constituted their own judges, seneschals, sheriffs,
coroners, and escheators." So that the king's writs did
not run in their counties, which took up more than two
parts of the English colony; but ran only in the
church-lands lying within the same, which was therefore
called THE CROSSE, wherein the Sheriff was nominated by
the King. By "high justice" is meant the power of life
and death, which was hardly consistent with even a
semblance of subjection. No wonder such absolute lords
should be found little disposed to obey the summons of
deputies, like Sir Ralph Ufford and Sir John Morris, men
of merely knightly rank, whose equals they had the power
to create, by the touch of their swords.

For a season their new honours quickened the dormant
loyalty of the recipients. Desmond, at the head of 10,000
men, joined the lord deputy, Sir John Darcy, to suppress
the insurgent tribes of South Leinster; the Earls of
Ulster and Ormond united their forces for an expedition
into West-Meath against the brave McGeoghegans and their
allies; but even these services--so complicated were
public and private motives in the breasts of the actors
--did not allay the growing suspicion of what were commonly
called "the old English," in the minds of the English
King and his council. Their resolution seems to have been
fixed to entrust no native of Ireland with the highest
office in his own country; in accordance with which
decision Sir Anthony Lucy was appointed, (1331;) Sir John
Darcy, (1332-34; again in 1341;) and Sir Ralph Ufford,
(1343-1346.) During the incumbency of these English
knights, whether acting as justiciaries or as deputies,
the first systematic attempts were made to prevent, both
by the exercise of patronage or by penal legislation,
the fusion of races, which was so universal a tendency
of that age. And although these attempts were discontinued
on the recommencement of war with France in 1345, the
conviction of their utility had seized too strongly on
the tenacious will of Edward III. to be wholly abandoned.
The peace of Bretigni in 1360 gave him leisure to turn
again his thoughts in that direction. The following year
he sent over his third son, Lionel, Duke of Clarence and
Earl of Ulster, (in right of his wife,) who boldly
announced his object to be the total separation, into
hostile camps, of the two populations.

This first attempt to enforce non-intercourse between
the natives and the naturalized deserves more particular
mention. It appears to have begun in the time of Sir
Anthony Lucy, when the King's Council sent over certain
"Articles of Reform," in which it was threatened that if
the native nobility were not more attentive in discharging
their duties to the King, his Majesty would resume into
his own hands all the grants made to them by his royal
ancestors or himself, as well as enforce payment of debts
due to the Crown which had been formerly remitted. From
some motive, these articles were allowed, after being
made public, to remain a dead letter, until the
administration of Darcy, Edward's confidential agent in
many important transactions, English and Irish. They were
proclaimed with additional emphasis by this deputy, who
convoked a Parliament or Council, at Dublin, to enforce
them as law. The same year, 1342, a new ordinance came
from England, prohibiting the public employment of men
born or married, or possessing estates in Ireland, and
declaring that all offices of state should be filled in
that country by "fit Englishmen, having lands, tenements,
and benefices in England." To this sweeping proscription
the Anglo-Irish, as well townsmen as nobles, resolved to
offer every resistance, and by the convocation of the
Earls of Desmond, Ormond, and Kildare, they agreed to
meet for that purpose at Kilkenny. Accordingly, what is
called Darcy's Parliament, met at Dublin in October,
while Desmond's rival assembly gathered at Kilkenny in
November. The proceedings of the former, if it agreed to
any, are unrecorded, but the latter despatched to the
King, by the hands of the Prior of Kilmainham, a
Remonstrance couched in Norman-French, the court language,
in which they reviewed the state of the country; deplored
the recovery of so large a portion of the former conquest
by the old Irish; accused, in round terms, the successive
English officials sent into the land, with a desire
suddenly to enrich themselves at the expense both of
sovereign and subject; pleaded boldly their own loyal
services, not only in Ireland, but in the French and
Scottish wars; and finally, claimed the protection of
the Great Charter, that they might not be ousted of their
estates, without being called in judgment. Edward, sorely
in need of men and subsidies for another expedition to
France, returned them a conciliatory answer, summoning
them to join him in arms, with their followers, at an
early day; and although a vigorous effort was made by
Sir Ralph Ufford to enforce the articles of 1331, and
the ordinance of 1341, by the capture of the Earls of
Desmond and Kildare, and by military execution on some
of their followers, the policy of non-intercourse was
tacitly abandoned for some years after the Remonstrance
of Kilkenny. In 1353, under the lord deputy, Rokeby, an
attempt was made to revive it, but it was quickly abandoned;
and two years later, Maurice, Earl of Desmond, the leader
of the opposition, was appointed to the office of Lord
Justice for life! Unfortunately that high-spirited nobleman
died the year of his appointment, before its effects
could begin to be felt. The only legal concession which
marked his period was a royal writ constituting the
"Parliament" of the Pale the court of last resort for
appeals from the decisions of the King's courts in that
province. A recurrence to the former favourite policy
signalized the year 1357, when a new set of ordinances
were received from London, denouncing the penalties of
treason against all who intermarried, or had relations
of fosterage with the Irish; and proclaiming war upon
all kernes and idle men found within the English districts.
Still severer measures, in the same direction, were soon
afterwards decided upon, by the English King and his
council.

Before relating the farther history of this penal code
as applied to race, we must recall the reader's attention
to the important date of the Kilkenny Remonstrance, 1342.
From that year may be distinctly traced the growth of
two parties among the subjects of the English Kings in
Ireland. At one time they are distinguished as "the old
English" and "the new English," at another, as "English
by birth" and "English by blood." The new English, fresh
from the Imperial island, seem to have usually conducted
themselves with a haughty sense of superiority; the old
English, more than half _Hibernicized_, confronted these
strangers with all the self-complacency of natives of
the soil on which they stood. In their frequent visits
to the Imperial capital, the old English were made sensibly
to feel that their country was not there; and as often
as they went, they returned with renewed ardour to the
land of their possessions and their birth. Time, also,
had thrown its reverent glory round the names of the
first invaders, and to be descended from the companions
of Earl Richard, or the captains who accompanied King
John, was a source of family pride, second only to that
which the native princes cherished, in tracing up their
lineage to Milesius of Spain. There were many reasons,
good, bad, and indifferent, for the descendants of the
Norman adventurers adopting Celtic names, laws, and
customs, but not the least potent, perhaps, was the
fostering of family pride and family dependence, which,
judged from our present stand-points, were two of the
worst possible preparations for our national success in
modern times.




CHAPTER II.

LIONEL, DUKE OF CLARENCE, LORD LIEUTENANT--THE PENAL CODE
OF RACE--"THE STATUTE OF KILKENNY," AND SOME OF ITS
CONSEQUENCES.

While the grand experiment for the separation of the
population of Ireland into two hostile camps was being
matured in England, the Earls of Kildare and Ormond were,
for four or five years, alternately entrusted with the
supreme power. Fresh ordinances, in the spirit of those
despatched to Darcy, in 1342, continued annually to
arrive. One commanded all lieges of the English King,
having grants upon the marches of the Irish enemy, to
reside upon and defend them, under pain of revocation.
By another entrusted to the Earl of Ormond for promulgation,
"no mere Irishman" was to be made a Mayor or bailiff, or
other officer of any town within the English districts;
nor was any mere Irishman "thereafter, under any pretence
of kindred, or from any other cause, to be received into
holy orders, or advanced to any ecclesiastical benefice."
A modification of this last edict was made the succeeding
year, when a royal writ explained that exception was
intended to be made of such Irish clerks as had given
individual proofs of their loyalty.

Soon after the peace of Bretigni had been solemnly ratified
at Calais, in 1360, by the Kings of France and England,
and the latter had returned to London, it was reported
that one of the Princes would be sent over to exercise
the supreme power at Dublin. As no member of the royal
family had visited Ireland since the reign of John--though
Edward I., when Prince, had been appointed his father's
lieutenant--this announcement naturally excited unusual
expectations. The Prince chosen was the King's third son,
Lionel, Duke of Clarence; and every preparation was made
to give _eclat_ and effect to his administration. This
Prince had married, a few years before, Elizabeth de
Burgh, who brought him the titles of Earl of Ulster and
Lord of Connaught, with the claims which they covered.
By a proclamation, issued in England, all who held
possessions in Ireland were commanded to appear before
the King, either by proxy or in person, to take measures
for resisting the continued encroachments of the Irish
enemy. Among the absentees compelled to contribute to
the expedition accompanying the Prince, are mentioned
Maria, Countess of Norfolk, Agnes, Countess of Pembroke,
Margery de Boos, Anna le Despenser, and other noble
ladies, who, by a strange recurrence, represented in this
age the five co-heiresses of the first Earl Marshal,
granddaughters of Eva McMurrogh. What exact force was
equipped from all these contributions is not mentioned;
but the Prince arrived in Ireland with no more than 1,500
men, under the command of Ralph, Earl of Strafford, James,
Earl of Ormond, Sir William Windsor, Sir John Carew, and
other knights. He landed at Dublin on the 15th of September,
1361, and remained in office for three years. On landing
he issued a proclamation, prohibiting natives of the
country, of all origins, from approaching his camp or
court, and having made this hopeful beginning he marched
with his troops into Munster, where he was defeated by
O'Brien, and compelled to retreat. Yet by the flattery
of courtiers he was saluted as the conqueror of Clare,
and took from the supposed fact, his title of _Clarence_.
But no adulation could blind him to the real weakness of
his position: he keenly felt the injurious consequences
of his proclamation, revoked it, and endeavoured to remove
the impression he had made, by conferring knighthood on
the Prestons, Talbots, Cusacks, De la Hydes, and members
of other families, not immediately connected with the
Palatine Earls. He removed the Exchequer from Dublin to
Carlow, and expended 500 pounds--a large sum for that
age--in fortifying the town. The barrier of Leinster was
established at Carlow, from which it was removed, by an
act of the English Parliament ten years afterwards; the
town and castle were retaken in 1397, by the celebrated
Art McMurrogh, and long remained in the hands of his
posterity.

In 1364, Duke Lionel went to England, leaving de Windsor
as his deputy, but in 1365, and again in 1367, he twice
returned to his government. This latter year is memorable
as the date of the second great stride towards the
establishment of a Penal Code of race, by the enactment
of the "Statute of Kilkenny." This memorable Statute was
drawn with elaborate care, being intended to serve as
the corner stone of all future legislation, and its
provisions are deserving of enumeration. The Act sets
out with this preamble: "Whereas, at the conquest of the
land of Ireland, and for a long time after, the English
of the said land used the English language, mode of
riding, and apparel, and were governed and ruled, both
they and their subjects, called Betaghese (villeins),
according to English law, &c., &c.,--but now many English
of the said land, forsaking the English language, manners,
mode of riding, laws, and usages, live, and govern
themselves according to the manners, fashion, and language
of the Irish enemies, and also have made divers marriages
and alliances between themselves and the Irish enemies
aforesaid--it is therefore enacted, among other provisions,
that all intermarriages, fosterings, gossipred, and buying
or selling with the 'enemie,' shall be accounted
treason--that English names, fashions, and manners shall
be resumed under penalty of the confiscation of the
delinquent's lands--that March-law and Brehon-law are
illegal, and that there shall be no law but English
law--that the Irish shall not pasture their cattle on
English lands--that the English shall not entertain Irish
rhymers, minstrels, or newsmen; and, moreover, that no
'mere Irishmen' shall be admitted to any ecclesiastical
benefice, or religious house, situated within the English
districts."

All the names of those who attended at this Parliament
of Kilkenny are not accessible to us; but that the Earls
of Kildare, Ormond, and Desmond, were of the number need
hardly surprise us, alarmed as they all were by the late
successes of the native princes, and overawed by the
recent prodigious victories of Edward III. at Cressy and
Poictiers. What does at first seem incomprehensible is
that the Archbishop not only of Dublin, but of Cashel
and Tuam--in the heart of the Irish country--and the
Bishops of Leighlin, Ossory, Lismore, Cloyne, and Killala,
should be parties to this statute. But on closer inspection
our surprise at their presence disappears. Most of these
prelates were at that day nominees of the English King,
and many of them were English by birth. Some of them
never had possession of their sees, but dwelt within the
nearest strong town, as pensioners on the bounty of the
Crown, while the dioceses were administered by native
rivals, or tolerated vicars. Le Reve, Bishop of Lismore,
was Chancellor to the Duke in 1367; Young, Bishop of
Leighlin, was Vice-Treasurer; the Bishop of Ossory, John
of Tatendale, was an English Augustinian, whose appointment
was disputed by Milo Sweetman, the native Bishop elect;
the Bishop of Cloyne, John de Swasham, was a Carmelite
of Lyn, in the county of Norfolk, afterwards Bishop of
Bangor, in Wales, where he distinguished himself in the
controversy against Wycliffe; the Bishop of Killala we
only know by the name of Robert--at that time very unusual
among the Irish. The two native names are those of the
Archbishops of Cashel and Tuam, Thomas O'Carrol and John
O'Grady. The former was probably, and the latter certainly,
a nominee of the Crown. We know that Dr. O'Grady died an
exile from his see--if he ever was permitted to enter
it--in the city of Limerick, four years after the sitting
of the Parliament of Kilkenny. Shortly after the enactment
of this law, by which he is best remembered, the Duke of
Clarence returned to England, leaving to Gerald, fourth
Earl of Desmond, the task of carrying it into effect. In
the remaining years of this reign the office of Lord
Lieutenant was held by Sir William de Windsor, during
the intervals of whose absence in England the Prior of
Kilmainham, or the Earl of Kildare or of Ormond, discharged
the duties with the title of Lord Deputy or Lord Justice.

It is now time that we should turn to the native annals
of the country to show how the Irish princes had carried
on the contest during the eventful half century which the
reign of Edward III. occupies in the history of England.

In the generation which elapsed from the death of the
Earl of Ulster, or rather from the first avowal of the
policy of proscription in 1342, the native tribes had on
all sides and continuously gained on the descendants of
their invaders. In Connaught, the McWilliams, McWattins,
and McFeoriss retained part of their estates only by
becoming as Irish as the Irish. The lordships of Leyny
and Corran, in Sligo and Mayo, were recovered by the
heirs of their former chiefs, while the powerful family
of O'Conor Sligo converted that strong town into a
formidable centre of operations. Rindown, Athlone,
Roscommon, and Bunratty, all frontier posts fortified
by the Normans, were in 1342, as we learn from the
Remonstrance of Kilkenny, in the hands of the elder race.

The war, in all the Provinces, was in many respects a
war of posts. Towards the north Carrickfergus continued
the outwork till captured by Neil O'Neil, when Downpatrick
and Dundalk became the northern barriers. The latter
town, which seems to have been strengthened after Bruce's
defeat, was repeatedly attacked by Neil O'Neil, and at
last entered into conditions, by which it procured his
protection. At Downpatrick also, in the year 1375, he
gained a signal victory over the English of the town and
their allies, under Sir James Talbot of Malahide, and
Burke of Camline, in which both these commanders were
slain. This O'Neil, called from his many successes Neil
_More_, or the Great, dying in 1397, left the borders of
Ulster more effectually cleared of foreign garrisons than
they had been for a century and a half before. He enriched
the churches of Armagh and Deny, and built a habitation
for students resorting to the primatial city, on the site
of the ancient palace of Emania, which had been deserted
before the coming of St. Patrick.

The northern and western chiefs seem in this age to have
made some improvements in military equipments, and tactics.
_Cooey-na-gall_, a celebrated captain of the O'Kanes, is
represented on his tomb at Dungiven as clad in complete
armour--though that may be the fancy of the sculptor.
Scottish gallowglasses--heavy-armed infantry, trained
in Bruce's campaigns, were permanently enlisted in their
service. Of their leaders the most distinguished were
McNeil _Cam_, or the Crooked, and McRory, in the service
of O'Conor, and McDonnell, McSorley, and McSweeney, in
the service of O'Neil, O'Donnell, and O'Conor Sligo. The
leaders of these warlike bands are called the Constables
of Tyr-Owen, of North Connaught, or of Connaught, and
are distinguished in all the warlike encounters in the
north and west.

The midland country--the counties now of Longford,
West-Meath, Meath, Dublin, Kildare, King's and Queen's,
were almost constantly in arms, during the latter half
of this century. The lords of Annally, Moy-Cashel, Carbry,
Offally, Ely, and Leix, rivalled each other in enterprise
and endurance. In 1329, McGeoghegan of West-Meath defeated
and slew Lord Thomas Butler, with the loss of 120 men at
Mullingar; but the next year suffered an equal loss from
the combined forces of the Earls of Ormond and Ulster;
his neighbour, O'Farrell, contended with even better
fortune, especially towards the close of Edward's reign
(1372), when in one successful foray he not only swept
their garrisons out of Annally, but rendered important
assistance to the insurgent tribes of Meath. In Leinster,
the house of O'Moore, under Lysaght their Chief, by a
well concerted conspiracy, seized in one night (in 1327)
no less than eight castles, and razed the fort of Dunamase,
which they despaired of defending. In 1346, under Conal
O'Moore, they destroyed the foreign strongholds of Ley
and Kilmehedie; and though Conal was slain by the English,
and Rory, one of their creatures, placed in his stead,
the tribe put Rory to death as a traitor in 1354, and
for two centuries thereafter upheld their independence.
Simultaneously, the O'Conors of Offally, and the O'Carrolls
of Ely, adjoining and kindred tribes, so straightened
the Earl of Kildare on the one hand, and the Earl of
Ormond on the other, that a cess of 40 pence on every
carucate (140 acres) of tilled land, and of 40 pence on
chattels of the value of six pounds, was imposed on all
the English settlements, for the defence of Kildare,
Carlow, and the marches generally. Out of the amount
collected in Carlow, a portion was paid to the Earl of
Kildare, "for preventing the O'Moores from burning the
town of Killahan." The same nobleman was commanded, by
an order in Council, to strengthen his Castles of Rathmore,
Kilkea, and Ballymore, under pain of forfeiture. These
events occurred in 1856, '7, and '8.

In the south the same struggle for supremacy proceeded
with much the same results. The Earl of Desmond, fresh
from his Justiceship in Dublin, and the penal legislation
of Kilkenny, was, in 1370, defeated and slain near Adare,
by Brian O'Brien, Prince of Thomond, with several knights
of his name, and "an indescribable number of others."
Limerick was next assailed, and capitulated to O'Brien,
who created Sheedy McNamara, Warden of the City. The
English burghers, however, after the retirement of O'Brien,
rose, murdered the new Warden, and opened the gates to
Sir William de Windsor, the Lord Lieutenant, who had
hastened to their relief. Two years later the whole
Anglo-Irish force, under the fourth Earl of Kildare, was,
summoned to Limerick, in order to defend it against
O'Brien. So desperate now became the contest, that William
de Windsor only consented to return a second time as Lord
Lieutenant in 1374, on condition that he was to act
strictly on the defensive, and to receive annually the
sum of 11,213 pounds 6 shillings 8 pence--a sum exceeding
the whole revenue which the English King derived from
Ireland at that period; which, according to Sir John
Davies, fell short of 11,000 pounds. Although such was
the critical state of the English interest, this lieutenant
obtained from the fears of successive Parliaments annual
subsidies of 2,000 pounds and 3,000 pounds. The deputies
from Louth having voted against his demand, were thrown
into prison; but a direct petition from the Anglo-Irish
to the King brought an order to de Windsor not to enforce
the collection of these grants, and to remit in favour
of the petitioners the scutage "on all those lands of
which the Irish enemy had deprived them."

In the last year of Edward III. (1376), he summoned the
magnates and the burghers of towns to send representatives
to 'London to consult with him on the state of the English
settlements in Ireland. But those so addressed having
assembled together, drew up a protest, setting forth that
the great Council of Ireland had never been accustomed
to meet out of that kingdom, though, saving the rights
of their heirs and successors, they expressed their
willingness to do so, for the King's convenience on that
occasion. Richard Dene and William Stapolyn were first
sent over to England to exhibit the evils of the Irish
administration; the proposed general assembly of
representatives seems to have dropped. The King ordered
the two delegates just mentioned to be paid ten pounds
out of the Exchequer for their expenses.

The series of events, however, which most clearly exhibits
the decay of the English interest, transpired within the
limits of Leinster, almost within sight of Dublin. Of
the actors in these events, the most distinguished for
energy, ability, and good fortune, was Art McMurrogh,
whose exploits are entitled to a separate and detailed
account.




CHAPTER III.

ART McMURROGH, LORD OF LEINSTER--FIRST EXPEDITION OF
RICHARD II., OF ENGLAND, TO IRELAND.

Whether Donald Kavanagh McMurrogh, son of Dermid, was
born out of wedlock, as the Lady Eva was made to depose,
in order to create a claim of inheritance for herself as
sole heiress, this, at least, is certain, that his
descendants continued to be looked upon by the kindred
clans of Leinster as the natural lords of that principality.
Towards the close of the thirteenth century, in the third
or fourth generation, after the death of their immediate
ancestor, the Kavanaghs of Leighlin and Ballyloughlin
begin to act prominently in the affairs of their Province,
and then--chief is styled both by Irish and English "the
McMurrogh." In the era of King Edward Bruce, they were
sufficiently formidable to call for an expedition of the
Lord Justice into their patrimony, by which they are said
to have been defeated. In the next age, in 1335, Maurice,
"the McMurrogh," was granted by the Anglo-Irish Parliament
or Council, the sum of 80 marks annually, for keeping
open certain roads and preserving the peace within its
jurisdiction. In 1358, Art, the successor of Maurice,
and Donald Revagh, were proclaimed "rebels" in a Parliament
held at Castledermot, by the Lord Deputy Sancto Amando,
the said Art being further branded with deep ingratitude
to Edward III., who had acknowledged him as "the Mac-Murch."
To carry on a war against him the whole English interest
was assessed with a special tax. Louth contributed 20
pounds; Meath and Waterford, 2 shillings on every carucate
(140 acres) of tilled land; Kilkenny the same sum, with
the addition of 6 pence in the pound on chattels. This
Art captured the strong castles of Kilbelle, Galbarstown,
Rathville, and although his career was not one of invariable
success, he bequeathed to his son, also called Art, in
1375, an inheritance, extending over a large portion--
perhaps one-half--of the territory ruled by his ancestors
before the invasion.

Art McMurrogh, or Art Kavanagh, as he is more commonly
called, was born in the year 1357, and from the age of
sixteen and upwards was distinguished by his hospitality,
knowledge, and feats of arms. Like the great Brian, he
was a younger son, but the fortune of war removed one by
one those who would otherwise have preceded him in the
captaincy of his clan and connections. About the year
1375--while he was still under age--he was elected
successor to his father, according to the Annalists, who
record his death in 1417, "after being forty-two years
in the government of Leinster." Fortunately he attained
command at a period favourable to his genius and enterprise.
His own and the adjoining tribes were aroused by tidings
of success from other Provinces, and the partial victories
of their immediate predecessors, to entertain bolder
schemes, and they only waited for a chief of distinguished
ability to concentrate their efforts. This chief they
found, where they naturally looked for him, among the
old ruling family of the Province. Nor were the English
settlers ignorant of his promise. In the Parliament held
at Castledermot in 1377, they granted to him the customary
annual tribute paid to his house, the nature of which
calls for a word of explanation. This tribute was granted,
"as the late King had done to his ancestors;" it was
again voted in a Parliament held in 1380, and continued
to be paid so late as the opening of the seventeenth
century (A.D. 1603). Not only was a fixed sum paid out
of the Exchequer for this purpose--inducing the native
chiefs to grant a right of way through their territories
--but a direct tax was levied on the inhabitants of
English origin for the same privilege. This tax, called
"black mail," or "black rent," was sometimes differently
regarded by those who paid and those who received it.
The former looked on it as a stipend, the latter as a
tribute; but that it implied a formal acknowledgment of
the local jurisdiction of the chief cannot be doubted.
Two centuries after the time of which we speak, Baron
Finglas, in his suggestions to King Henry VIII. for
extending his power in Ireland, recommends that "no black
rent be paid to any Irishman _for the four shires_"--of
the Pale--"and any black rent they had afore this time
be paid to them for ever." At that late period "the
McMurrogh" had still his 80 marks annually from the
Exchequer, and 40 pounds from the English settled in
Wexford; O'Carroll of Ely had 40 pounds from the English
in Kilkenny, and O'Conor of Offally 20 pounds from those
of Kildare, and 300 pounds from Meath. It was to meet
these and other annuities to more distant chiefs, that
William of Windsor, in 1369, covenanted for a larger
revenue than the whole of the Anglo-Irish districts then
yielded, and which led him besides to stipulate that he
was to undertake no new expeditions, but to act entirely
on the defensive. We find a little later, that the
necessity of sustaining the Dublin authorities at an
annual loss was one of the main motives which induced
Richard II. of England to transport two royal armies
across the channel, in 1394 and 1399.

Art McMurrogh, the younger, not only extended the bounds
of his own inheritance and imposed tribute on the English
settlers in adjoining districts, during the first years
of his rule, but having married a noble lady of the
"Pale," Elizabeth, heiress to the barony of Norragh, in
Kildare, which included Naas and its neighbourhood, he
claimed her inheritance in full, though forfeited under
"the statute of Kilkenny," according to English notions.
So necessary did it seem to the Deputy and Council of
the day to conciliate their formidable neighbour, that
they addressed a special representation to King Richard,
setting forth the facts of the case, and adding that
McMurrogh threatened, until this lady's estates were
restored and the arrears of tribute due to him fully
discharged, he should never cease from war, "but would
join with the Earl of Desmond against the Earl of Ormond,
and afterwards return with a great force out of Minister
to ravage the country." This allusion most probably refers
to James, second Earl of Ormond, who, from being the
maternal grandson of Edward I., was called the noble
Earl, and was considered in his day the peculiar
representative of the English interest. In the last
years of Edward III., and the first of his successor, he
was constable of the Castle of Dublin, with a fee of 18
pounds 5 shillings per annum. In 1381--the probable date
of the address just quoted--he had a commission to treat
with certain rebels, in order to reform them and promote
peace. Three years later he died, and was buried in the
Cathedral of St. Canice, Kilkenny, the place of sepulture
of his family.

When, in the year 1389, Richard II., having attained his
majority, demanded to reign alone, the condition of the
English interest was most critical. During the twelve
years of his minority the Anglo-Irish policy of the
Council of Regency had shifted and changed, according to
the predominance of particular influences. The Lord
Lieutenancy was conferred on the King's relatives, Edward
Mortimer, Earl of March (1379), and continued to his son,
Roger Mortimer, a minor (1381); in 1383, it was transferred
to Philip de Courtenay, the King's cousin. The following
year, de Courtenay having been arrested and fined for
mal-administration, Robert de Vere, Earl of Oxford, the
special favourite of Richard, was created Marquis of
Dublin and Duke of Ireland, with a grant of all the powers
and authority exercised at any period in Ireland by that
King or his predecessors. This extraordinary grant was
solemnly confirmed by the English Parliament, who, perhaps
willing to get rid of the favourite at any cost, allotted
the sum of 30,000 marks due from the King of France, with
a guard of 500 men-at-arms and 1,000 archers for de Vere's
expedition. But that favoured nobleman never entered into
possession of the principality assigned him; he experienced
the fate of the Gavestons and de Spencers of a former
reign; fleeing, for his life, from the Barons, he died
in exile in the Netherlands. The only real rulers of the
Anglo-Irish in the years of the King's minority, or
previous to his first expedition in 1394, (if we except
Sir John Stanley's short terms of office in 1385 and
1389,) were the Earls of Ormond, second and third, Colton,
Dean of Saint Patrick's, Petit, Bishop of Meath, and
White, Prior of Kilmainham. For thirty years after the
death of Edward III., no Geraldine was entrusted with
the highest office, and no Anglo-Irish layman of any
other family but the Butlers. In 1393, Thomas of Woodstock,
Duke of Gloucester, uncle to Richard, was appointed Lord
Lieutenant, and was on the point of embarking, when a
royal order reached him announcing the determination of
the King to take command of the forces in person.

The immediate motives for Richard's expedition are
variously stated by different authors. That usually
assigned by the English--a desire to divert his mind from
brooding over the loss of his wife, "the good Queen Anne,"
seems wholly insufficient. He had announced his intention
a year before her death; he had called together, before
the Queen fell ill, the Parliament at Westminster, which
readily voted him "a tenth" of the revenues of all their
estates for the expedition. Anne's sickness was sudden,
and her death took place in the last week of July.
Richard's preparations at that date were far advanced
towards completion, and Sir Thomas Scroope had been
already some months in Dublin to prepare for his reception.
The reason assigned by Anglo-Irish writers is more
plausible: he had been a candidate for the Imperial Crown
of Germany, and was tauntingly told by his competitors
to conquer Ireland before he entered the lists for the
highest political honour of that age. This rebuke, and
the ill-success of Ms arms against France and Scotland,
probably made him desirous to achieve in a new field some
share of that military glory which was always so highly
prized by his family:

Some events which immediately preceded Richard's expedition
may help us to understand the relative positions of the
natives and the naturalized to the English interest in
the districts through which he was to march. By this time
the banner of Art McMurrogh floated over all the castles
and raths, on the slope of the Ridge of Leinster, or the
steps of the Blackstair hills; while the forests along
the Barrow and the Upper Slaney, as well as in the plain
of Carlow and in the South-western angle of Wicklow (now
the barony of Shillelagh), served still better his purposes
of defensive warfare; So entirely was the range of country
thus vaguely defined under native sway that John Griffin,
the English Bishop of Leighlin, and Chancellor of the
Exchequer, obtained a grant in 1389 of the town of
Gulroestown, in the county of Dublin, "near the marches
of O'Toole, seeing he could not live within his own see
for the rebels." In 1390, Peter Creagh, Bishop of Limerick,
on his way to attend an Anglo-Irish Parliament, was taken
prisoner in that region, and in consequence the usual
fine was remitted in his favour. In 1392, James, the
third Earl of Ormond, gave McMurrogh a severe check at
Tiscoffin, near Shankill, where 600 of his clansmen were
left dead among the hills.

This defeat, however, was thrown into the shade by the
capture of New Boss, on the very eve of Richard's arrival
at Waterford. In a previous chapter we have described
the fortifications erected round this important seaport
towards the end of the thirteenth century. Since that
period its progress had been steadily onward. In the
reign of Edward III. the controversy which had long
subsisted between the merchants of Ross and those of
Waterford, concerning the trade monopolies claimed by
the latter, had been decided in favour of Ross. At this
period it could muster in its own defence 363 cross-bowmen,
1,200 long-bowmen, 1,200 pikemen, and 104 horsemen--a
force which would seem to place it second to Dublin in
point of military strength. The capture of so important
a place by McMurrogh was a cheering omen to his followers.
He razed the walls and towers, and carried off gold,
silver, and hostages.

On the 2nd of October, 1394, the royal fleet of Richard
arrived from Milford Haven, at Waterford. To those who
saw Ireland for the first time, the rock of Dundonolf,
famed for Raymond's camp, the abbey of Dunbrody, looking
calmly down on the confluence of the three rivers, and
the half-Danish, half-Norman port before them, must have
presented scenes full of interest. To the townsmen the
fleet was something wonderful. The endless succession
of ships of all sizes and models, which had wafted over
30,000 archers and 4,000 men-at-arms; the royal galley
leading on the fluttering pennons of so many great nobles,
was a novel sight to that generation. Attendant on the
King were his uncle, the Duke of Gloucester, the young
Earl of March, heir apparent, Thomas Mowbray, Earl of
Nottingham, the Earl of Rutland, the Lord Thomas Percy,
afterwards Earl of Westmoreland, and father of Hotspur,
and Sir Thomas Moreley, heir to the last Lord Marshal of
the "Pale." Several dignitaries of the English Church,
as well Bishops as Abbots, were also with the fleet.
Immediately after landing, a _Te Deum_ was sung in the
Cathedral, where Earl Richard had wedded the Princess
Eva, where Henry II. and John had offered up similar
thanksgivings.

Richard remained a week at Waterford; gave splendid
_fetes_, and received some lords of the neighbouring
country, Le Poers, Graces, and Butlers. He made gifts to
churches, and ratified the charter given by John to the
abbey of Holy Cross in Munster. He issued a summons to
Gerald, Earl of Desmond, to appear before him by the
feast of the Purification "in whatever part of Ireland
he should then be," to answer to the charge of having
usurped the manor, revenues, and honour of Dungarvan.
Although it was then near the middle of October, he took
the resolution of marching to Dublin, through the country
of McMurrogh, and knowing the memory of Edward the
Confessor to be popular in Leinster, he furled the royal
banner, and hoisted that of the saintly Saxon king, which
bore "a cross patence, or, on a field gules, with four
doves argent on the shield." His own proper banner bore
lioncels and fleur-de-lis. His route was by Thomastown
to Kilkenny, a city which had risen into importance with
the Butlers. Nearly half a century before, this family
had brought artizans from Flanders, who established the
manufacture of woollens, for which the town was ever
after famous. Its military importance was early felt and
long maintained. At this city Richard was joined by Sir
William de Wellesley, who claimed to be hereditary
standard-bearer for Ireland, and by other Anglo-Irish
nobles. From thence he despatched his Earl Marshal into
"Catherlough" to treat with McMurrogh. On the plain of
Ballygorry, near Carlow, Art, with his uncle, Malachy,
O'Moore, O'Nolan, O'Byrne, MacDavid, and other chiefs,
met the Earl Marshal. The terms proposed were almost
equivalent to extermination. They were, in effect, that
the Leinster chieftains, under fines of enormous amount,
payable into the Apostolic chamber, should, before the
first Sunday of Lent, surrender to the English King "the
full possession of all their lands, tenements, castles,
woods, and forts, which by them and all other of the
Kenseologhes, their companions, men, or adherents, late
were occupied within the province of Leinster." And the
condition of this surrender was to be, that they should
have unmolested possession of any and all lands they
could conquer from the King's other Irish enemies elsewhere
in the kingdom. To these hard conditions some of the
minor chiefs, overawed by the immense force brought
against them, would, it seems, have submitted, but Art
sternly refused to treat, declaring that if he made terms
at all, it should be with the King and not with the Earl
Marshal; and that instead of yielding his own lands, his
wife's patrimony in Kildare should be restored. This
broke up the conference, and Mowbray returned discomfitted
to Kilkenny.

King Richard, full of indignation, put himself at the
head of his army and advanced against the Leinster clans.
But his march was slow and painful: the season and the
forest fought against him; he was unable to collect by
the way sufficient fodder for the horses or provisions
for the men. McMurrogh swept off everything of the nature
of food--took advantage of his knowledge of the country
to burst upon the enemy by night, to entrap them into
ambuscades, to separate the cavalry from the foot, and
by many other stratagems to thin their ranks and harass
the stragglers. At length Richard, despairing of dislodging
him from his fastnesses in Idrone, or fighting a way out
of them, sent to him another deputation of "the English
and Irish of Leinster," inviting him to Dublin to a
personal interview. This proposal was accepted, and the
English king continued his way to Dublin, probably along
the sea coast by Bray and the white strand, over Killiney
and Dunleary. Soon after his arrival at Dublin, care was
taken to repair the highway which ran by the sea, towards
Wicklow and Wexford.




CHAPTER IV.

SUBSEQUENT PROCEEDINGS OF RICHARD II.--LIEUTENANCY AND
DEATH OF THE EARL OF MARCH--SECOND EXPEDITION OF RICHARD
AGAINST ART McMURROGH--CHANGE OF DYNASTY IN ENGLAND.

At Dublin, Richard prepared to celebrate the festival of
Christmas, with all the splendour of which he was so
fond. He had received letters from his council in England
warmly congratulating him on the results of his "noble
voyage" and his successes against "his rebel Make Murgh."
Several lords and chiefs were hospitably entertained by
him during the holidays--but the greater magnates did
not yet present themselves--unless we suppose them to
have continued his guests at Dublin, from Christmas till
Easter, which is hardly credible.

The supplies which he had provided were soon devoured by
so vast a following. His army, however, were paid their
wages weekly, and were well satisfied. But whatever the
King or his flatterers might pretend, the real object of
all the mighty preparations made was still in the distance,
and fresh supplies were needed for the projected campaign
of 1395. To raise the requisite funds, he determined to
send to England his uncle, the Duke of Gloucester.
Gloucester carried a letter to the regent, the Duke of
York, countersigned "Lincolne," and dated from Dublin,
"Feb. 1, 1395." The council, consisting of the Earls of
Derby, Arundel, de Ware, Salisbury, Northumberland, and
others, was convened, and they "readily voted a tenth
off the clergy, and a fifteenth off the laity, for the
King's supply." This they sent with a document, signed
by them all, exhorting him to a vigorous prosecution of
the war, and the demolition of all forts belonging to
"MacMourgh [or] le grand O'Nel." They also addressed him
another letter, complimentary of his valour and discretion
in all things.

While awaiting supplies from England, Richard made a
progress as far northward as Drogheda, where he took up
his abode in the Dominican Convent of St. Mary Magdalen.
On the eve of St. Patrick's Day, O'Neil, O'Donnell,
O'Reilly, O'Hanlon, and MacMahon, visited and exchanged
professions of friendship with him. It is said they made
"submission" to him as their sovereign lord, but until
the Indentures, which have been spoken of, but never
published, are exhibited, it will be impossible to
determine what, in their minds and in his, were the exact
relations subsisting between the native Irish princes
and the King of England at that time. O'Neil, and other
lords of Ulster, accompanied him back to Dublin, where
they found O'Brien, O'Conor, and McMurrogh, lately arrived.
They were all lodged in a fair mansion, according to the
notion of Master Castide, Froissart's informant, and were
under the care of the Earl of Ormond and Castide himself,
both of whom spoke familiarly the Irish language.

The glimpse we get through Norman spectacles of the
manners and customs of these chieftains is eminently
instructive, both as regards the observers and the
observed. They would have, it seems, very much to the
disedification of the English esquire, "their minstrels
and principal servants sit at the same table and eat from
the same dish." The interpreters employed all their
eloquence in vain to dissuade them from this lewd habit,
which they perversely called "a praiseworthy custom,"
till at last, to get rid of importunities, they consented
to have it ordered otherwise, during their stay as King
Richard's guests.

On the 24th of March the Cathedral of Christ's Church
beheld the four kings devoutly keeping the vigil preparatory
to knighthood. They had been induced to accept that honour
from Richard's hand. They had apologized at first, saying
they were all knighted at the age of seven. But the
ceremony, as performed in the rest of Christendom, was
represented to them as a great and religious custom,
which made the simplest knight the equal of his sovereign,
which added new lustre to the crowned head, and fresh
honour to the victorious sword. On the Feast of the
Annunciation they went through the imposing ceremony,
according to the custom obtaining among their entertainers.

While the native Princes of the four Provinces were thus
lodged together in one house, it was inevitable that
plans of co-operation for the future should be discussed
between them. Soon after the Earl of Ormond, who knew
their language, appeared before Richard as the accuser
of McMurrogh, who was, on his statement, committed to
close confinement in the Castle. He was, however, soon
after set at liberty, though O'Moore, O'Byrne, and John
O'Mullain were retained in custody, probably as hostages,
for the fulfilment of the terms of his release. By this
time the expected supplies had arrived from England, and
the festival of Easter was happily passed. Before breaking
up from his winter quarters Richard celebrated with great
pomp the festival of his namesake, St. Richard, Bishop
of Chichester, and then summoned a parliament to meet
him at Kilkenny on the 12th of the month. The acts of
this parliament have not seen the light; an obscurity
which they share in common with all the documents of this
Prince's progress in Ireland. The same remark was made
three centuries ago by the English chronicler, Grafton,
who adds with much simplicity, that as Richard's voyage
into Ireland "was nothing profitable nor honourable to
him, therefore the writers think it scant worth the
noting."

Early in May a deputation, at the head of which was the
celebrated William of Wyckham, arrived from England,
invoking the personal presence of the King to quiet the
disturbances caused by the progress of Lollardism. With
this invitation he decided at once to comply, but first
he appointed the youthful Earl of March his lieutenant
in Ireland, and confirmed the ordinance of Edward III.,
empowering the chief governor in council to convene
parliament by writ, which writ should be of equal obligation
with the King's writ in England. He ordained that a fine
of not less than fifty marks, and not more than one
hundred, should be exacted of every representative of a
town or shire, who, being elected as such, neglected or
refused to attend. He reformed the royal courts, and
appointed Walter de Hankerford and William Sturmey, two
Englishmen, "well learned in the law" as judges, whose
annual salaries were to be forty pounds each. Having made
these arrangements, he took an affectionate leave of his
heir and cousin, and sailed for England, whither he was
accompanied by most of the great nobles who had passed
over with him to the Irish wars. Little dreamt they of
the fate which impended over many of their heads. Three
short years and Gloucester would die by the assassin's
hand, Arundel by the executioner's axe, and Mowbray, Earl
Marshal, the ambassador at Ballygorry, would pine to
death in Italian banishment. Even a greater change than
any of these--a change of dynasty--was soon to come over
England.

The young Earl of March, now left in the supreme direction
of affairs, so far as we know, had no better title to
govern than that he was heir to the English throne, unless
it may have been considered an additional recommendation
that he was sixth in descent from the Lady Eva McMurrogh.
To his English title, he added that of Earl of Ulster
and Lord of Connaught, derived from his mother, the
daughter of Lionel, Duke of Clarence, and those of Lord
of Trim and Clare, from other relations. The counsellors
with whom he was surrounded included the wisest statesmen
and most experienced soldiers of "the Pale." Among them
were Almaric, Baron Grace, who, contrary to the statute
of Kilkenny, had married an O'Meagher of Ikerrin, and
whose family had intermarried with the McMurroghs; the
third Earl of Ormond, an indomitable soldier, who had
acted as Lord Deputy, in former years of this reign;
Cranley, Archbishop of Dublin, and Roche, the Cistercian
Abbot of St. Mary's, lately created Lord Treasurer of
Ireland; Stephen Bray, Chief Justice; and Gerald, fifth
Earl of Kildare. Among his advisers of English birth were
Roger Grey, his successor; the new Judges Hankerford and
Sturmey, and others of less pacific reputation. With
the dignitaries of the Church, and the innumerable priors
and abbots, in and about Dublin, the court of the
Heir-Presumptive must have been a crowded and imposing
one for those times, and had its external prospects been
peaceful, much ease and pleasure might have been enjoyed
within its walls.

In the three years of this administration, the struggle
between the natives, the naturalized, and the English
interest knew no cessation in Leinster. Some form of
submission had been wrung from McMurrogh before his
release from Dublin Castle, in the spring of 1395, but
this engagement extorted under duress, from a guest
towards whom every rite of hospitality had been violated,
he did not feel bound by after his enlargement. In the
same year an attempt was made to entrap him at a banquet
given in one of the castles of the frontier, but warned
by his bard, he made good his escape "by the strength of
his arm, and by bravery." After this double violation of
what among his countrymen, even of the fiercest tribes,
was always held sacred, the privileged character of a
guest, he never again placed himself at the mercy of
prince or peer, but prosecuted the war with unfaltering
determination. In 1396, his neighbour, the chief of
Imayle, carried off from an engagement near Dublin, six
score heads of the foreigners: and the next year--an
exploit hardly second in its kind to the taking of Ross
--the strong castle and town of Carlow were captured by
McMurrogh himself. In the campaign of 1398, on the 20th
of July, was fought the eventful battle of Kenlis, or
Kells, on the banks of the stream called "the King's
river," in the barony of Kells, and county of Kilkenny.
Here fell the Heir-Presumptive to the English crown,
whose premature removal was one of the causes which
contributed to the revolution in England, a year or two
later. The tidings of this event filled "the Pale" with
consternation, and thoroughly aroused the vindictive
temper of Richard. He at once despatched to Dublin his
half-brother, Thomas Holland, Earl of Kent, recently
created Duke of Surrey. To this duke he made a gift of
Carlow castle and town, to be held (if taken) by knights'
service. He then, as much, perhaps, to give occupation
to the minds of his people, as to prosecute his old
project of subduing Ireland, began to make preparations
for his second expedition thither. Death again delayed
him. John of Ghent, Duke of Lancaster, his uncle, and
one of the most famous soldiers of the time, suddenly
sickened, and died. As Henry, his son, was in banishment,
the King, under pretence of appropriating his vast wealth
to the service of the nation, seized it into his own
hands, and despite the warnings of his wisest counsellors
as to the disturbed state of the kingdom, again took up
his march for Milford Haven.

A French knight, named Creton, had obtained leave with
a brother-in-arms to accompany this expedition, and has
left us a very vivid account of its progress. Quitting
Paris they reached London just as King Richard was about
"to cross the sea on account of the injuries and grievances
that his mortal enemies had committed against him in
Ireland, where they had put to death many of his faithful
friends." Wherefore they were further told, "he would
take no rest until he had avenged himself upon MacMore,
who called himself most excellent King and Lord of great
Ireland; where he had but little territory of any kind."

They at once set out for Milford, where, "waiting for
the north wind," they remained "ten whole days." Here
they found King Richard with a great army, and a
corresponding fleet. The clergy were taxed to supply
horses, waggons, and money--the nobles, shires, and towns,
their knights, men-at-arms, and archers-the seaports,
from Whitehaven to Penzance, were obliged, by an order
in council, dated February 7th, to send vessels rated at
twenty-five tons and upwards to Milford, by the octave
of Easter. King's letters were issued whenever the usual
ordinances failed, and even the press-gang was resorted
to, to raise the required number of mariners. Minstrels
of all kinds crowded to the camp, enlivening it by their
strains, and enriching themselves the while. The wind
coming fair, the vessels "took in their lading of bread,
wine, cows and calves, salt meat and plenty of water,"
and the King taking leave of his ladies, they set sail.

In two days they saw "the tower of Waterford." The
condition to which the people of this English stronghold
had been reduced by the war was pitiable in the extreme.
Some were in rags, others girt with ropes, and their
dwellings seemed to the voyagers but huts and holes. They
rushed into the tide up to their waists, for the speedy
unloading of the ships, especially attending to those
that bore the supplies of the army. Little did the proud
cavaliers and well-fed yeomen, who then looked on, imagine,
as they pitied the poor wretches of Waterford, that before
many weeks were over, they would themselves be reduced
to the like necessity--even to rushing into the sea to
contend for a morsel of food.

Six days after his arrival, which was on the 1st of June,
King Richard marched from Waterford "in close order to
Kilkenny." He had now the advantage of long days and warm
nights, which in his first expedition he had not. His
forces were rather less than in 1394; some say twenty,
some twenty-four thousand in all. The Earl of Rutland,
with a reinforcement in one hundred ships, was to have
followed him, but this unfaithful courtier did not greatly
hasten his preparations to overtake his master. With the
King were the Lord Steward of England, Sir Thomas Percy;
the Duke of Exeter; De Spencer, Earl of Gloucester; the
Lord Henry of Lancaster, afterwards King Henry V.; the
son of the late Duke of Gloucester; the son of the Countess
of Salisbury; the Bishop of Exeter and London; the Abbot
of Westminster, and a gallant Welsh gentleman, afterwards
known to fame as Owen Glendower. He dropped the subterfuge
of bearing Edward the Confessor's banner, and advanced
his own standard, which bore leopards and flower de luces.
In this order, "riding boldly," they reached Kilkenny,
where Richard remained a fortnight awaiting news of the
Earl of Rutland from Waterford. No news, however, came.
But while he waited, he received intelligence from Kildare
which gratified his thirst for vengeance. Jenico d'Artois,
a Gascon knight of great discretion and valour, who had
come over the preceding year with the Duke of Surrey,
marching towards Kilkenny, had encountered some bands of
the Irish in Kildare (bound on a like errand to their
prince), whom he fought and put to flight, leaving two
hundred of them dead upon the field. This Jenico, relishing
Irish warfare more than most foreign soldiers of his age,
continued long after to serve in Ireland--married one of
his daughters to Preston, Baron of Naas, and another to
the first Lord Portlester.

On the 23rd of June, "the very vigil of St. John," a
saint to whom the King was very much devoted, Richard,
resolving to delay no longer, left Kilkenny, and marched
directly towards Catherlough. He sent a message in advance
to McMurrogh, "who would neither submit nor obey him in
anyway; but affirmed that he was the rightful King of
Ireland, and that he would never cease from war and the
defence of his country until his death; and said that
the wish to deprive him of it by conquest was unlawful."

Art McMurrogh, now some years beyond middle age, had with
him in arms "three thousand hardy men," "who did not
appear," says our French knight, "to be much afraid of
the English." The cattle and corn, the women and the
helpless, he had removed into the interior of the
fastnesses, while he himself awaited, in Idrone, the
approach of the enemy.

This district, which lies north and south between the
rivers Slaney and Barrow, is of a diversified and broken
soil, watered with several small streams, and patched
with tracts of morass and marsh. It was then half covered
with wood, except in the neighbourhood of Old Leighlin,
and a few other places where villages had grown up around
the castles, raths, and monasteries of earlier days. On
reaching the border of the forest, King Richard ordered
all the habitations in sight to be set on fire; and then
"two thousand five hundred of the well affected people,"
or, as others say, prisoners, "began to hew a highway
into the woods."

When the first space was cleared, Richard, ever fond of
pageantry, ordered his standard to be planted on the new
ground, and pennons and banners arrayed on every side.
Then he sent for the sons of the Dukes of Gloucester and
Lancaster, his cousins, and the son of the Countess of
Salisbury and other bachelors-in-arms, and there knighted
them with all due solemnity. To young Lancaster, he said,
"My fair cousin, henceforth, be preux and valiant, for
you have some valiant blood to conquer." The youth to
whom he made this address was little more than a boy,
but tall of his age, and very vigorous. He had been a
hard student at Oxford, and was now as unbridled as a
colt new loosed into a meadow. He was fond of music, and
afterwards became illustrious as the Fifth Henry of
English history. Who could have foreseen, when first he
put on his spurs by the wood's side, in Catherlough, that
he would one day inherit the throne of England and make
good the pretensions of all his predecessors to the throne
of France?

Richard's advance was slow and wearisome in the forests
of Idrone. His route was towards the eastern coast.
McMurrogh retreated before him, harassing him dreadfully,
carrying off everything fit for food for man or beast,
surprising and slaying his foragers, and filling his camp
nightly with alarm and blood. The English archers got
occasional shots at his men, "so that they did not all
escape;" and they in turn often attacked the rear-guard,
"and threw their darts with such force that they pierced
haubergeon and plates through and through." The Leinster
King would risk no open battle so long as he could thus
cut off the enemy in detail. Many brave knights fell,
many men-at-arms and archers; and a deep disrelish for
the service began to manifest itself in the English camp.

A party of Wexford settlers, however, brought one day to
his camp Malachy McMurrogh, uncle to Art, a timid,
treaty-making man. According to the custom of that
century--observed by the defenders of Stirling and the
burgesses of Calais--he submitted with a _wythe_ about
his neck, rendering up a naked sword. His retinue,
bareheaded and barefoot, followed him into the presence
of Richard, who received them graciously. "Friends,"
said he to them, "as to the evils and wrongs that you
have committed against me, I pardon you on condition that
each of you will swear to be faithful to me for the time
to come." Of this circumstance he made the most, as our
guide goes on to tell in these words: "Then every one
readily complied with his demand; and took the oath. When
this was done he sent word to MacMore, who called himself
Lord and King of Ireland, (_that country_,) where he has
many a wood but little cultivated land, that if he would
come straightways to him with a rope about _his_ neck,
as his uncle had done, he would admit him to mercy, and
elsewhere give him castles and lands in abundance." The
answer of King Art is thus reported: "MacMore told the
King's people he would do no such thing for all the
treasures of the sea or on this side, (the sea,) but
would continue to fight and harass him."

For eleven days longer Richard continued his route in
the direction of Dublin, McMurrogh and his allies falling
back towards the hills and glens of Wicklow. The English
could find nothing by the way but "a few green oats" for
the horses, which being exposed night and day, and so
badly fed, perished in great numbers. The general discontent
now made itself audible even to the ears of the King.
For many days five or six men had but a "single loaf."
Even gentlemen, knights and squires, fasted in succession;
and our chivalrous guide, for his part, "would have been
heartily glad to have been penniless at Poitiers or
Paris." Daily deaths made the camp a scene of continued
mourning, and all the minstrels that had come across the
sea to amuse their victor countrymen, like the poet who
went with Edward II. to Bannockburn to celebrate the
conquest of the Scots, found their gay imaginings turned
to a sorrowful reverse.

At last, however, they came in sight of the sea-coast,
where vessels laden with provisions, sent from Dublin,
were awaiting them. So eager were the famished men for
food, that "they rushed into the sea as eagerly as they
would into their straw." All their money was poured into
the hands of the merchants; some of them even fought in
the water about a morsel of food, while in their thirst
they drank all the wine they could lay hands on. Our
guide saw full a thousand men drunk that day on "the wine
of Ossey and Spain." The scene of this extraordinary
incident is conjectured to have been at or near Arklow,
where the beach is sandy and flat, such as it is not at
any point of Wicklow north of that place.

The morning after the arrival of these stores, King
Richard again set forward for Dublin, determining to
penetrate Wicklow by the valleys that lead from the
Meeting of the Waters to Bray. He had not proceeded far
on his march, when a Franciscan friar reached his camp
as Ambassador from the Leinster King. This unnamed
messenger, whose cowl history cannot raise, expressed
the willingness of his lord to treat with the King,
through some accredited agent--"some lord who might be
relied upon"--"so that _their_ anger (Richard's and his
own), that had long been cruel, might now be extinguished."
The announcement spread "great joy" in the English camp.
A halt was ordered, and a council called. After a
consultation, it was resolved that de Spencer, Earl of
Gloucester, should be empowered to confer with Art. This
nobleman, now but 26 years of age, had served in the
campaign of 1394. He was one of the most powerful peers
of England, and had married Constance, daughter of the
Duke of York, Richard's cousin. From his possessions in
Wales, he probably knew something of the Gaelic customs
and speech. He was captain of the rearguard on this
expedition, and now, with 200 lances, and 1,000 archers,
all of whom were chosen men, he set out for the conference.
The French knight also went with him, as he himself
relates in these words:

"Between two woods, at some distance from the sea, I
beheld MacMore and a body of the Irish, more than I can
number, descend the mountain. He had a horse, without
housing or saddle, which was so fine and good, that it
had cost him, they said, four hundred cows; for there is
little money in the country, wherefore their usual traffic
is only with cattle. In coming down, it galloped so
hard, that, in my opinion, I never saw hare, deer, sheep,
or any other animal, I declare to you for a certainty,
run with such speed as it did. In his right hand he bore
a great long dart, which he cast with much skill. * * *
His people drew up in front of the wood. These two
(Gloucester and the King), like an out-post, met near a
little brook. There MacMore stopped. He was a fine large
man--wondrously active. To look at him, he seemed very
stern and savage, and an able man. He and the Earl spake
of their doings, recounting the evil and injury that
MacMore had done towards the King at sundry times; and
how they all foreswore their fidelity when wrongfully,
without judgment or law, they most mischievously put to
death the courteous Earl of March. Then they exchanged
much discourse, but did not come to agreement; they took
short leave, and hastily parted. Each took his way apart,
and the Earl returned towards King Richard."

This interview seems to have taken place in the lower
vale of Ovoca, locally called Glen-Art, both from the
description of the scenery, and the stage of his march
at which Richard halted. The two woods, the hills on
either hand, the summer-shrunken river, which, to one
accustomed to the Seine and the Thames naturally looked
no bigger than a brook, form a picture, the original of
which can only be found in that locality. The name
itself, a name not to be found among the immediate chiefs
of Wicklow, would seem to confirm this hypothesis.

The Earl on his return declared, "he could find nothing
in him, (Art,) save only that he would ask for _pardon_,
truly, upon condition of having _peace without reserve_,
free from any molestation or imprisonment; otherwise, he
will never come to agreement as long as he lives; and,
(he said,) 'nothing venture, nothing have.' This speech,"
says the French knight, "was not agreeable to the King;
it appeared to me that his face grew pale with anger; he
swore in great wrath by St. Edward, that, no, never would
he depart from Ireland, till, alive or dead, he had him
in his power."

The King, notwithstanding, was most anxious to reach
Dublin. He at once broke up his camp, and marched on
through Wicklow, "for all the shoutings of the enemie."
What other losses he met in those deep valleys our guide
deigns not to tell, but only that they arrived at last
in Dublin "more than 30,000" strong, which includes, of
course, the forces of the Anglo-Irish lords that joined
them on the way. There "the whole of their ills were
soon forgotten, and their sorrow removed." The provost
and sheriffs feasted them sumptuously, and they were all
well-housed and clad. After the dangers they had undergone,
these attentions were doubly grateful to them. But for
long years the memory of this doleful march lived in the
recollection of the English on both sides the Irish sea,
and but once more for above a century did a hostile army
venture into the fastnesses of Idrone and Hy-Kinsellah.

When Richard arrived in Dublin, still galled by the memory
of his disasters, he divided his force into three divisions,
and sent them out in quest of McMurrogh, promising to
whosoever should bring him to Dublin, alive or dead, "100
marks, in pure gold." "Every one took care to remember
these words," says Creton, "for it was a good hearing."
And Richard, moreover, declared that if they did not
capture him when the autumn came, and the trees were
leafless and dry, he would burn "all the woods great and
small," or find out that troublous rebel. The same day
he sent out his three troops, the Earl of Rutland, his
laggard cousin, arrived at Dublin with 100 barges. His
unaccountable delay he submissively apologized for, and
was readily pardoned. "Joy and delight" now reigned in
Dublin. The crown jewels shone at daily banquets,
tournaments, and mysteries. Every day some new pastime
was invented, and thus six weeks passed, and August drew
to an end. Richard's happiness would have been complete
had any of his soldiers brought in McMurrogh's head: but
far other news was on the way to him. Though there was
such merriment in Dublin, a long-continued storm swept
the channel. When good weather returned, a barge arrived
from Chester, bearing Sir William Bagot, who brought
intelligence that Henry of Lancaster, the banished Duke,
had landed at Ravenspur, and raised a formidable
insurrection amongst the people, winning over the Archbishop
of Canterbury, the Duke of York, and other great nobles.
Richard was struck with dismay. He at once sent the Earl
of Salisbury into Wales to announce his return, and then,
taking the evil counsel of Rutland, marched himself to
Waterford, with most part of his force, and collected
the remainder on the way. Eighteen days after the news
arrived he embarked for England, leaving Sir John Stanley
as Lord Lieutenant in Ireland. Before quitting Dublin,
he confined the sons of the Dukes of Lancaster and
Gloucester, in the strong fortress of Trim, from which
they were liberated to share the triumph of the successful
usurper, Henry IV.

It is beyond our province to follow the after-fate of
the monarch, whose Irish campaigns we have endeavoured
to restore to their relative importance. His deposition
and cruel death, in the prison of Pontefract, are familiar
to readers of English history. The unsuccessful
insurrections suppressed during his rival's reign, and
the glory won by the son of that rival, as Henry V., seem
to have established the house of Lancaster firmly on the
throne; but the long minority of Henry VI.--who inherited
the royal dignity at nine months old--and the factions
among the other members of that family, opened
opportunities, too tempting to be resisted, to the rival
dynasty of York. During the first sixty years of the
century on which we are next to enter, we shall find the
English interest in Ireland controlled by the house of
Lancaster; in the succeeding twenty-five years the
partizans of the house of York are in the ascendant;
until at length, after the victory of Bosworth field
(A.D. 1485), the wars of the roses are terminated by the
coronation of the Earl of Richmond as Henry VII., and
his politic marriage with the Princess Elizabeth-the
representative of the Yorkist dynasty. It will be seen
how these rival houses had their respective factions
among the Anglo-Irish; how these factions retarded two
centuries the establishment of English power in Ireland;
how the native lords and chiefs took advantage of the
disunion among the foreigners to circumscribe more and
more the narrow limits of the Pale; and lastly, how the
absence of national unity alone preserved the power so
reduced from utter extinction. In considering all these
far extending consequences of the deposition of Richard II.,
and the substitution of Henry of Lancaster in his stead,
we must give due weight to his unsuccessful Irish wars
as proximate causes of that revolution. The death of the
Heir-Presumptive in the battle of Kells; the exactions
and ill-success of Richard in his wars; the seizure of
John of Ghent's estates and treasures; the absence of
the sovereign at the critical moment: all these are causes
which operated powerfully to that end. And of these all
that relate to Irish affairs were mainly brought about
by the heroic constancy, in the face of enormous odds,
the unwearied energy, and high military skill exhibited
by one man--Art McMurrogh.




CHAPTER V.

PARTIES WITHIN "THE PALE"--BATTLES OF KILMAINHAM AND
KILLUCAN-SIR JOHN TALBOT'S LORD LIEUTENANCY.

One leading fact, which we have to follow in all its
consequences through the whole of the fifteenth century,
is the division of the English and of the Anglo-Irish
interest into two parties, Lancasterians and Yorkists.
This division of the foreign power will be found to have
produced a corresponding sense of security in the minds
of the native population, and thus deprived them of that
next best thing to a united national action, the combining
effects of a common external danger.

The new party lines were not drawn immediately upon the
English revolution of 1399, but a very few years sufficed
to infuse among settlers of English birth or descent the
partizan passions which distracted the minds of men in
their original country. The third Earl of Ormond, although
he had received so many favours from the late King and
his grandfather, yet by a common descent of five generations
from Edward I., stood in relation of cousinship to the
Usurper. On the arrival of the young Duke of Lancaster
as Lord Lieutenant, in 1402, Ormond became one of his
first courtiers, and dying soon after, he chose the Duke
guardian to his heir, afterwards the fourth Earl. This
heir, while yet a minor (1407), was elected or appointed
deputy to his guardian, the Lord Lieutenant; during almost
the whole of the short reign of Henry V. (1413-1421) he
resided at the English Court, or accompanied the King in
his French campaigns, thus laying the foundations of that
influence which, six several times during the reign of
Henry VI., procured his appointment to office as Lord
Deputy, Lord Justice, or Lord Lieutenant. At length, in
the mid-year of the century, his successor was created
Earl of Wiltshire, and entrusted with the important duties
of one of the Commissioners for the fleet, and Lord
Treasurer of England; favours and employments which
sufficiently account for how the Ormond family became
the leaders of the Lancaster party among the Anglo-Irish.

The bestowal of the first place on another house tended
to estrange the Geraldines, who, with some reason, regarded
themselves as better entitled to such honours. During
the first official term of the Duke of Lancaster, no
great feeling was exhibited, and on his departure in
1405, the fifth Earl of Kildare was, for a year, entrusted
with the office of Deputy. On the return of the Duke,
in August, 1408, the Earl rode out to meet him, but was
suddenly arrested with three other members of his family,
and imprisoned in the Castle, His house in Dublin was
plundered by the servants of the Lord Lieutenant, and
the sum of 300 marks was exacted for his ransom. Such
injustice and indignity, as well as the subsequent arrest
of the sixth Earl, in 1418, "for having communicated with
the Prior of Kilmainham"--still more than their rivalry
with the Ormonds, drove the Kildare family into the ranks
of the adherents of the Dukes of York. We shall see in
the sequel the important reacting influence of these
Anglo-Irish combinations upon the fortunes of the white
rose and the red.

To signalize his accession and remove the reproach of
inaction which had been so often urged against his
predecessor, Henry IV, was no sooner seated on the throne
than he summoned the military tenants of the Crown to
meet him in arms upon the Tyne, for the invasion of
Scotland. It seems probable that he summoned those of
Ireland with the rest, as we find in that year (1400)
that an Anglo-Irish fleet, proceeding northwards from
Dublin, encountered a Scottish, fleet in Strangford Lough,
where a fierce engagement was fought, both sides claiming
the victory. Three years later the Dubliners landed at
Saint Ninians, and behaved valiantly, as their train
bands did the same summer against the mountain tribes of
Wicklow. Notwithstanding the personal sojourn of the
unfortunate Richard, and his lavish expenditure among
them, these warlike burghers cordially supported the new
dynasty. Some privileges of trade were judiciously extended
to them, and, in 1407, Henry granted to the Mayors of
the city the privilege of having a gilded sword carried
before them, in the same manner as the Mayors of London.

At the period when these politic favours were bestowed
on the citizens of Dublin, Henry was contending with a
formidable insurrection in Wales, under the leadership
of Owen Glendower, who had learned in the fastnesses of
Idrone, serving under King Richard, how brave men, though
not formed to war in the best schools, can defend their
country against invasion. In the struggle which he
maintained so gallantly during this and the next reign,
though the fleet of Dublin at first assisted his enemies,
he was materially aided afterwards by the constant
occupation furnished them by the clans of Leinster. The
early years of the Lancasterian dynasty were marked by
a series of almost invariable defeats in the Leinster
counties. Art McMurrogh, whose activity defied the chilling
effects of age, poured his cohorts through Sculloge gap,
on the garrisons of Wexford, taking in rapid possession
in one campaign (1406) the castles of Camolin, Ferns,
and Enniscorthy. Returning northward he retook Castledermot,
and inflicted chastisement on the warlike Abbot of Conal,
near Naas, who shortly before attacked some Irish forces
on the Curragh of Kildare, slaying two hundred men.
Castledermot was retaken by the Lord Deputy Scrope the
next year, with the aid of the Earls of Ormond and Desmond,
and the Prior of Kilmainham, at the head of his Knights.
These allies were fresh from a Parliament in Dublin,
where the Statute of Kilkenny had been, according to
custom, solemnly re-enacted as the only hope of the
English interest, and they naturally drew the sword in
maintenance of their palladium. Within six miles of
Callan, in "McMurrogh's country," they encountered that
chieftain and his clansmen. In the early part of the day
the Irish are stated to have had the advantage, but some
Methian captains coming up in the afternoon turned the
tide in favour of the English. According to the chronicles
of the Pale, they won a second victory before nightfall
at the town of Callan, over O'Carroll of Ely, who was
marching to the aid of McMurrogh. But so confused and
unsatisfactory are the accounts of this twofold engagement
on the same day, in which the Deputy in person, and such
important persons as the Earls of Desmond, of Ormond,
and the Prior of Kilmainham commanded, that we cannot
reconcile it with probability. The Irish Annals simply
record the fact that a battle was gained at Callan over
the Irish of Munster, in which O'Carroll was slain. Other
native authorities add that 800 of his followers fell
with O'Carroll, but no mention whatever is made of the
battle with McMurrogh. The English accounts gravely add,
that the evening sun stood still, while the Lord Deputy
rode six miles, from the place of the first engagement
to that of the second. This was the last campaign of
Sir Stephen Scrope; he died soon after by the pestilence
which swept over the island, sparing neither rich nor
poor.

The Duke of Lancaster resumed the Lieutenancy, arrested
the Earl of Kildare as before related, convoked a Parliament
at Dublin, and with all the forces he could muster,
determined on an expedition southwards. But McMurrogh
and the mountaineers of Wicklow now felt themselves strong
enough to take the initiative. They crossed the plain
which lies to the north of Dublin, and encamped at
Kilmainham, where Roderick when he besieged the city,
and Brien before the battle of Clontarf, had pitched
their tents of old. The English and Anglo-Irish forces,
under the eye of their Prince, marched out to dislodge
them, in four divisions. The first was led by the Duke
in person; the second by the veteran knight, Jenico
d'Artois, the third by Sir Edward Perrers, an English
knight, and the fourth by Sir Thomas Butler, Prior of
the Order of Saint John, afterwards created by Henry V.,
for his distinguished service, Earl of Kilmain. With
McMurrogh were O'Byrne, O'Nolan, and other chiefs, besides
his sons, nephews, and relatives. The numbers on each
side could hardly fall short of ten thousand men, and
the action may be fairly considered one of the most
decisive of those times. The Duke was carried back wounded
into Dublin; the slopes of Inchicore and the valley of
the Liffey were strewn with the dying and the dead; the
river at that point obtained from the Leinster Irish the
name of _Athcroe_, or the ford of slaughter; the widowed
city was filled with lamentation and dismay. In a petition
addressed to King Henry by the Council, apparently during
his son's confinement from the effects of his wound, they
thus describe the Lord Lieutenant's condition: "His
soldiers have deserted him; the people of his household
are on the point of leaving him; and though they were
willing to remain, our lord is not able to keep them
together; our said lord, your son, is so destitute of
money, that he hath not a penny in the world, nor a penny
can he get credit for."

One consequence of this battle of Kilmainham was, that
while Art McMurrogh lived, no further attacks were made
upon his kindred or country. He died at Ross, on the
first day of January, 1417, in the 60th year of his age.
His Brehon, O'Doran, having also died suddenly on the
same day, it was supposed they were both poisoned by a
drink prepared for them by a woman of the town. "He was,"
say our impartial _Four Masters_, who seldom speak so
warmly of any Leinster Prince, "a man distinguished for
his hospitality, knowledge, and feats of arms; a man full
of prosperity and royalty; a founder of churches and
monasteries by his bounty and contributions," and one
who had defended his Province from the age of sixteen to
sixty.

On his recovery from the effects of his wound, the Duke
of Lancaster returned finally to England, appointing
Prior Butler his Deputy, who filled that office for five
consecutive years. Butler was an illegitimate son of
the late Earl of Ormond, and naturally a Lancasterian:
among the Irish he was called Thomas _Baccagh_, on account
of his lameness. He at once abandoned South Leinster as
a field of operations, and directed all his efforts to
maintain the Pale in Kildare, Meath, and Louth. His chief
antagonist in this line of action was Murrogh or Maurice
O'Conor, of Offally. This powerful chief had lost two or
three sons, but had gamed as many battles over former
deputies. He was invariably aided by his connexions and
neighbours, the MacGeoghegans of West-Heath. Conjointly
they captured the castles and plundered the towns of
their enemies, holding their prisoners to ransom or
carrying off their flocks. In 1411 O'Conor held to ransom
the English Sheriff of Meath, and somewhat later defeated
Prior Butler in a pitched battle. His greatest victory
was the battle of Killucan, fought on the 10th day of
May, 1414. In this engagement MacGeoghegan was, as usual,
his comrade. All the power of the English Pale was arrayed
against them. Sir Thomas Mereward, Baron of Screen, "and
a great many officers and common soldiers were slain,"
and among the prisoners were Christopher Fleming, son of
the Baron of Slane, for whom a ransom of 1,400 marks was
paid, and the ubiquitous Sir Jenico d'Artois, who, with
some others, paid "twelve hundred marks, beside a reward
and fine for intercession." A Parliament which sat at
Dublin for thirteen weeks, in 1413, and a foray into
Wicklow, complete the notable acts of Thomas _Baccagh's_
viceroyalty. Soon after the accession of Henry V. (1413),
he was summoned to accompany that warlike monarch into
France, and for a short interval the government was
exercised by Sir John Stanley, who died shortly after
his arrival, and by the Archbishop of Dublin, as
Commissioner. On the eve of St. Martin's Day, 1414, Sir
John Talbot, afterwards so celebrated as first Earl of
Shrewsbury, landed at Dalkey, with the title of Lord
Lieutenant.

The appointment of this celebrated Captain, on the brink
of a war with France, was an admission of the desperate
strait to which the English interest had been reduced.
And if the end could ever justify the means, Henry V.,
from his point of view, might have defended on that ground
the appointment of this inexorable soldier. Adopting the
system of Sir Thomas Butler, Talbot paid little or no
attention to South Leinster, but aimed in the first place
to preserve to his sovereign, Louth and Meath. His most
southern point of operation, in his first Lieutenancy,
was Leix, but his continuous efforts were directed against
the O'Conors of Offally and the O'Hanlons and McMahons
of Oriel. For three succeeding years he made circuits
through these tribes, generally by the same route, west
and north, plundering chiefs and churches, sparing "neither
saint nor sanctuary." On his return to Dublin after these
forays, he exacted with a high hand whatever he wanted
for his household. When he returned to England, 1419, he
carried along with him, according to the chronicles of
the Pale--"the curses of many, because he, being run much
in debt for victuals, and divers other things, would pay
little or nothing at all." Among the natives he left a
still worse reputation. The plunder of a bard was regarded
by them as worse, if possible, than the spoliation of a
sanctuary. One of Talbot's immediate predecessors was
reputed to have died of the malediction of a bard of
West-Meath, whose property he had appropriated; but as
if to show his contempt of such superstition, Talbot
suffered no son of song to escape him. Their satires fell
powerless on his path. Not only did he enrich himself,
by means lawful and unlawful, but he created interest,
which, a few years afterwards, was able to checkmate the
Desmonds and Ormonds. The see of Dublin falling vacant
during his administration, he procured the appointment
of his brother Richard as Archbishop, and left him, at
his departure, in temporary possession of the office of
Lord Deputy. Branches of his family were planted at
Malahide, Belgarde, and Talbotstown, in Wicklow, the
representatives of which survive till this day.

One of this Lieutenant's most acceptable offices to the
State was the result of stratagem rather than of arms.
The celebrated Art McMurrogh was succeeded, in 1417, by
his son, Donogh, who seems to have inherited his valour,
without his prudence. In 1419, in common with the O'Conor
of Offally, his father's friend, he was entrapped into
the custody of Talbot. O'Conor, the night of his capture,
escaped with his companions, and kept up the war until
his death: McMurrogh was carried to London and confined
in the Tower. Here he languished for nine weary years.
At length, in 1428, Talbot, having "got license to make
the best of him," held him to ransom. The people of his
own province released him, "which was joyful news to the
Irish."

But neither the aggrandizement of new nor the depression
of old families effected any cardinal change in the
direction of events. We have traced for half a century,
and are still farther to follow out, the natural
consequences of the odious _Statute of Kilkenny_. Although
every successive Parliament of the Pale recited and
re-enacted that statute, every year saw it dispensed in
particular cases, both as to trading, intermarriage, and
fostering with the natives. Yet the virus of national
proscription outlived all the experience of its futility.
In 1417, an English petition was presented to the English
Parliament, praying that the law, excluding Irish
ecclesiastics from Irish benefices, should be strictly
enforced; and the same year they prohibited the influx
of fugitives from Ireland, while the Pale Parliament
passed a corresponding act against allowing any one to
emigrate without special license. At a Parliament held
at Dublin in 1421, O'Hedian, Archbishop of Cashel, was
impeached by Gese, Bishop of Waterford, the main charges
being that he loved none of the English nation; that he
presented no Englishman to a living; and that he designed
to make himself King of Minister. This zealous assembly
also adopted a petition of grievances to the King, praying
that as the Irish, who had done homage to King Richard,
"had long since taken arms against the government
notwithstanding their recognizances payable in the
Apostolic chamber, his Highness the King would lay their
conduct before the Pope, and prevail on the Holy Father
to publish _a crusade against them_, to follow up the
intention of his predecessor's grant to Henry II.!"

In the temporal order, as we have seen, the policy of
hatred brought its own punishment. "The Pale," which may
be said to date from the passing of the _Statute of
Kilkenny_ (1367), was already abridged more than one-half.
The Parliament of Kilkenny had defined it as embracing
"Louth, Meath, Dublin, Kildare, Catherlough, Kilkenny,
Wexford, Waterford, and Tipperary," each governed by
Seneschals or Sheriffs. In 1422 Dunlavan and Ballymore
are mentioned as the chief keys of Dublin and Kildare
--and in the succeeding reign Callan in Oriel is set down
as the chief key of that part. Dikes to keep out the
enemy were made from Tallaght to Tassagard, at Rathconnell
in Meath, and at other places in Meath and Kildare.
These narrower limits it long retained, and the usual
phrase in all future legislation by which the assemblies
of the Anglo-Irish define their jurisdiction is "the four
shires." So completely was this enclosure isolated from
the rest of the country that, in the reign at which we
have now arrived, both the Earls of Desmond and Ormond
were exempted from attending certain sittings of Parliament,
and the Privy Council, on the ground that they could not
do so without marching through the enemy's country at
great risk and inconvenience. It is true occasional
successes attended the military enterprises of the
Anglo-Irish, even in these days of their lowest fortunes.
But they had chosen to adopt a narrow, bigoted, unsocial
policy; a policy of exclusive dealing and perpetual
estrangement from their neighbours dwelling on the same
soil, and they had their reward. Their borders were
narrowed upon them; they were penned up in one corner of
the kingdom, out of which they could not venture a league
without license and protection, from the free clansmen
they insincerely affected to despise.




CHAPTER VI.

ACTS OF THE NATIVE PRINCES--SUBDIVISION OF TRIBES AND
TERRITORIES--ANGLO-IRISH TOWNS UNDER NATIVE
PROTECTION--ATTEMPT OF THADDEUS O'BRIEN, PRINCE OF THOMOND,
TO RESTORE THE MONARCHY--RELATIONS OF THE RACES IN THE
FIFTEENTH CENTURY.

The history of "the Pale" being recounted down to the
period of its complete isolation, we have now to pass
beyond its entrenched and castellated limits, in order
to follow the course of events in other parts of the
kingdom.

While the highest courage was everywhere exhibited by
chiefs and clansmen, no attempt was made to bring about
another National Confederacy, after the fall of Edward
Bruce. One result of that striking _denouement_ of a
stormy career--in addition to those before mentioned--was
to give new life to the jealousy which had never wholly
subsided, between the two primitive divisions of the
Island. Bruce, welcomed, sustained, and lamented by the
Northern Irish, was distrusted, avoided, and execrated
by those of the South. There may have been exceptions,
but this was the rule. The Bards and Newsmen of subsequent
times, according to their Provincial bias, charged the
failure of Bruce upon the Eugenian race, or justified
his fate by aspersing his memory and his adherents of
the race of Conn. This feeling of irritation, always most
deep-seated when driven in by a consciousness of
mismanagement or of self-reproach, goes a great way to
account for the fact, that more than one generation was
to pass away, before any closer union could be brought
about between the Northern and Southern Milesian Irish.

We cannot, therefore, in the period embraced in our
present book, treat the Provinces otherwise than as
estranged communities, departing farther and farther from
the ancient traditions of one central legislative council
and one supreme elective chief. Special, short-lived
alliances between lords of different Provinces are indeed
frequent; but they were brought about mostly by ties of
relationship or gossipred, and dissolved with the
disappearance of the immediate danger. The very idea of
national unity, once so cherished by all the children of
_Miledh Espaigne_, seems to have been as wholly lost as
any of those secrets of ancient handiwork, over which
modern ingenuity puzzles itself in vain. In the times to
which we have descended, it was every principality and
every lordship for itself. As was said of old in Rome,
"Antony had his party, Octavius had his party, but the
Commonwealth had none."

Not alone was the greater unity wholly forgotten, but no
sooner were the descendants of the Anglo-Normans driven
into their eastern enclosure, or thoroughly amalgamated
in language, laws and costume with themselves, than the
ties of particular clans began to loose their binding
force, and the tendency to subdivide showed itself on
every opportunity. We have already, in the book of the
"War of Succession," described the subdivisions of Breffni
and of Meath as measures of policy, taken by the O'Conor
Kings, to weaken their too powerful suffragans. But that
step, which might have strengthened the hands of a native
dynasty, almost inevitably weakened the tribes themselves
in combating the attacks of a highly organized foreign
power. Of this the O'Conors themselves became afterwards
the most striking example. For half a century following
the Red Earl's death, they had gained steadily on the
foreigners settled in Connaught. The terrible defeat of
Athenry was more than atoned for by both other victories.
At length the descendants of the vanquished on that day
ruled as proudly as ever did their ancestors in their
native Province. The posterity of the victors were merely
tolerated on its soil, or anxiously building up new houses
in Meath and Louth. But in an evil hour, on the death of
their last King (1384), the O'Conors agreed to settle
the conflicting claims of rival candidates for the
succession by dividing the common inheritance. From this
date downwards we have an O'Conor Don and an O'Conor Roe
in the Annals of that Province, each rallying a separate
band of partizans; and according to the accidents of age,
minority, alliance, or personal reputation, infringing,
harassing, or domineering over the other. Powerful lords
they long continued, but as Provincial Princes we meet
them no more.

This fatal example--of which there had been a faint
foreshadowing in the division of the McCarthys in the
preceding century--in the course of a generation or two,
was copied by almost every great connection, north and
south. The descendants of yellow Hugh O'Neil in Clandeboy
claimed exemption from the supremacy of the elder family
in Tyrone; the O'Farells, acknowledged two lords of
Annally; the McDonoghs, two lords of Tirerril; there was
McDermott of the Wood claiming independence of McDermott
of the Rock; O'Brien of Ara asserted equality with O'Brien
of Thomond; the nephews of Art McMurrogh contested the
superiority of his sons; and thus slowly but surely the
most powerful clans were hastening the day of their own
dissolution.

A consequence of these subdivisions was the necessity
which arose for new and opposite alliances, among those
who had formerly looked on themselves as members of one
family, with common dangers and common enemies. The pivot
of policy now rested on neighbourhood rather than on
pedigree; a change in its first stages apparently unnatural
and deplorable, but in the long run not without its
compensating advantages. As an instance of these new
necessities, we may adduce the protection and succour
steadily extended by the O'Neils of Clandeboy, to the
McQuillans, Bissets, of the Antrim coast, and the McDonnells
of the Glens, against the frequent attacks of the O'Neils
of Tyrone. The latter laid claim to all Ulster, and long
refused to acknowledge these foreigners, though men of
kindred race and speech. Had it not been that the interest
of Clandeboy pointed the other way, it is very doubtful
if either the Welsh or Scottish settlers by the bays of
Antrim could have made a successful stand against the
overruling power of the house of Dungannon. The same
policy, adopted by native chiefs under similar
circumstances, protected the minor groups of settlers of
foreign origin in the most remote districts--like the
Barretts and other Welsh people of Tyrawley--long after
the Deputies of the Kings of England had ceased to consider
them as fellow-subjects, or to be concerned for their
existence.

In like manner the detached towns, built by foreigners,
of Welsh, Flemish, Saxon, or Scottish origin, were now
taken "under the protection" of the neighbouring chief,
or Prince, and paid to him or to his bailiff an annual
tax for such protection. In this manner Wexford purchased
protection of McMurrogh, Limerick from O'Brien, and
Dundalk from O'Neil. But the yoke was not always borne
with patience, nor did the bare relation of tax-gatherer
and tax-payer generate any very cordial feeling between
the parties. Emboldened by the arrival of a powerful
Deputy, or a considerable accession to the Colony, or
taking advantage of contested elections for the chieftaincy
among their protectors, these sturdy communities sometimes
sought by force to get rid of their native masters. Yet
in no case at this period were such town risings ultimately
successful. The appearance of a menacing force, and the
threat of the torch, soon brought the refractory burgesses
to terms. On such an occasion (1444) Dundalk paid Owen
O'Neil the sum of 60 marks and two tuns of wine to avert
his indignation. On another, the townsmen of Limerick
agreed about the same period to pay annually for ever to
O'Brien the sum of 60 marks. Notwithstanding the precarious
tenure of their existence, they all continued jealously
to guard their exclusive privileges. In the oath of office
taken by the Mayor of Dublin (1388) he is sworn to guard
the city's franchises, so that no Irish rebel shall
intrude upon the limits. Nicholas O'Grady, Abbot of a
Monastery in Clare, is mentioned in 1485 as "the twelfth
Irishman that ever possessed the freedom of the city of
Limerick" up to that time. A special bye-law, at a still
later period, was necessary to admit Colonel William
O'Shaughnessy, of one of the first families in that
county, to the freedom of the Corporation of the town of
Galway. Exclusiveness on the one side, and arbitrary
taxation on the other, were ill means of ensuring the
prosperity of these new trading communities; Freedom and
Peace have ever been as essential to commerce as the
winds and waves are to navigation.

The dissolution and reorganization of the greater clans
necessarily included the removal of old, and the formation
of new boundaries, and these changes frequently led to
border battles between the contestants. The most striking
illustration of the struggles of this description, which
occurs in our Annals in the fifteenth century, is that
which was waged for three generations between a branch
of the O'Conors established at Sligo, calling themselves
"lords of Lower Connaught," and the O'Donnells of Donegal.
The country about Sligo had anciently been subject to
the Donegal chiefs, but the new masters of Sligo, after
the era of Edward Bruce, not only refused any longer to
pay tribute, but endeavoured by the strong hand to extend
their sway to the banks of the Drowse and the Erne. The
pride not less than the power of the O'Donnells was
interested in resisting this innovation, for, in the
midst of the debateable land rose the famous mountain of
Ben Gulban (now Benbulben), which bore the name of the
first father of their tribe. The contest was, therefore,
bequeathed from father to son, but the family of Sligo,
under the lead of their vigorous chiefs, and with the
advantage of actual possession, prevailed in establishing
the exemption of their territory from the ancient tribute.
The Drowse, which carries the surplus waters of the
beautiful Lough Melvin into the bay of Donegal, finally
became the boundary between Lower Connaught and Tyrconnell.

We have already alluded to the loss of the arts of
political combination among the Irish in the Middle Ages.
This loss was occasionally felt by the superior minds
both in church and state. It was felt by Donald More
O'Brien and those who went with him into the house of
Conor Moinmoy O'Conor, in 1188; it was felt by the nobles
who, at Cael-uisge, elected Brian O'Neil in 1258; it was
felt by the twelve reguli who, in 1315, invited Edward
Bruce, "a man of kindred blood," to rule over them; it
was imputed as a crime to Art McMurrogh in 1397, that he
designed to claim the general sovereignty; and now in
this century, Thaddeus O'Brien, Prince of Thomond, with
the aid of the Irish of the southern half-kingdom, began
(to use the phrase of the last Antiquary of Lecan) "working
his way to Tara." This Prince united all the tribes of
Munster in his favour, and needing, according to ancient
usage, the suffrages of two other Provinces to ensure
his election, he crossed the Shannon in the summer of
1466 at the head of the largest army which had followed
any of his ancestors since the days of King Brian. He
renewed his protection to the town of Limerick, entered
into an alliance with the Earl of Desmond--which alliance
seems to have cost Desmond his head--received in his camp
the hostages of Ormond and Ossory, and gave gifts to the
lords of Leinster. Simultaneously, O'Conor of Offally
had achieved a great success over the Palesmen, taking
prisoner the Earl of Desmond, the Prior of Trim, the
Lords Barnwall, Plunkett, Nugent, and other Methian
magnates--a circumstance which also seems to have some
connection with the fate of Desmond and Plunkett, who
were the next year tried for treason and executed at
Drogheda, by order of the Earl of Worcester, then Deputy.
The usual Anglo-Irish tales, as to the causes of Desmond's
losing the favour of Edward IV., seem very like
after-inventions. It is much more natural to attribute
that sudden change to some connection with the attempt
of O'Brien the previous year--since this only makes
intelligible the accusation against him of "_alliance_,
fosterage, and alterage with the King's Irish enemies."

From Leinster O'Brien recrossed the Shannon, and overran
the country of the Clan-William Burke. But the ancient
jealousy of Leath-Conn would not permit its proud chiefs
to render hostage or homage to a Munster Prince, of no
higher rank than themselves. Disappointed in his hopes
of that union which could alone restore the monarchy in
the person of a native ruler, the descendant of Brian
returned to Kinkora, where he shortly afterwards fell
ill of fever and died. "It was commonly reported," says
the Antiquary of Lecan, "that the multitudes' envious
eyes and hearts shortened his days."

The naturalized Norman noble spoke the language of the
Gael, and retained his Brehons and Bards like his Milesian
compeer. For generations the daughters of the elder race
had been the mothers of his house; and the milk of Irish
foster-mothers had nourished the infancy of its heirs.
The Geraldines, the McWilliams, even the Butlers, among
their tenants and soldiers, were now as Irish as the
Irish. Whether allies or enemies, rivals or as relatives,
they stood as near to their neighbours of Celtic origin
as they did to the descendants of those who first landed
at Bannow and at Waterford. The "Statute of Kilkenny"
had proclaimed the eternal separation of the races, but
up to this period it had failed, and the men of both
origins were left free to develop whatever characteristics
were most natural to them. What we mean by being left
free is, that there was no general or long-sustained
combination of one race for the suppression of the other
from the period of Richard the Second's last reverses
(A.D. 1399) till the period of the Reformation. Native
Irish life, therefore, throughout the whole of the
fifteenth, and during the first half of the sixteenth
century, was as free to shape and direct itself, to ends
of its own choosing, as it had been at almost any former
period in our history. Private wars and hereditary
blood-feuds, next after the loss of national unity, were
the worst vices of the nation. Deeds of violence and acts
of retaliation were as common as the succession of day
and night. Every free clansman carried his battle-axe to
church and chase, to festival and fairgreen. The strong
arm was prompt to obey the fiery impulse, and it must be
admitted in solemn sadness, that almost every page of
our records at this period is stained with human blood.
But though crimes of violence are common, crimes of
treachery are rare. The memory of a McMahon, who betrayed
and slew his guest, is execrated by the same stoical
scribes, who set down, without a single expression of
horror, the open murder of chief after chief. Taking
off by poison, so common among their cotemporaries, seems
to have been altogether unknown, and the cruelties of
the State Prisons of the Middle Ages undreamt of by our
fierce, impetuous, but not implacable ancestors. The
facts which go to affix the imputation of cruelty on
those ages are, the frequent entries which we find of
deposed chiefs, or conspicuous criminals, having their
eyes put out, or being maimed in their members. By these
barbarous punishments they lost caste, if not life; but
that indeed must have been a wretched remnant of existence
which remained to the blinded lover, or the maimed warrior,
or the crippled tiller of the soil. Of the social and
religious relations existing between the races, we shall
have occasion to speak more fully before closing the
present book.




CHAPTER VII.

CONTINUED DIVISION AND DECLINE OF "THE ENGLISH INTEREST"--
RICHARD, DUKE OF YORK, LORD LIEUTENANT--CIVIL WAR AGAIN
IN ENGLAND--EXECUTION OF THE EARL OF DESMOND--ASCENDANCY
OF THE KILDARE GERALDINES.

We have already described the limits to which "the Pale"
was circumscribed at the beginning of the fourteenth
century. The fortunes of that inconsiderable settlement
during the following century hardly rise to the level of
historical importance, nor would the recital of them be
at all readable but for the ultimate consequences which
ensued from the preservation of those last remains of
foreign power in the island. On that account, however,
we have to consult the barren annals of "the Pale" through
the intermediate period, that we may make clear the
accidents by which it was preserved from destruction,
and enabled to play a part in after-times, undreamt of
and inconceivable, to those who tolerated its existence
in the ages of which we speak.

On the northern coasts of Ireland the co-operation of
the friendly Scots with the native Irish had long been
a source of anxiety to the Palesmen. In the year 1404,
Dongan, Bishop of Derry, and Sir Jenico d'Artois, were
appointed Commissioners by Henry IV., to conclude a
permanent peace with McDonald, Lord of the Isles, but,
notwithstanding that form was then gone through during
the reigns of all the Lancasterian Kings, evidence of
the Hiberno-Scotch alliance being still in existence,
constantly recurs. In the year 1430 an address or petition
of the Dublin Council to the King sets forth "that the
enemies and rebels, _aided by the Scots_, had conquered
or rendered tributary almost every part of the country,
_except the county of Dublin_." The presence of Henry V.
in Ireland had been urgently solicited by his lieges in
that kingdom, but without effect. The hero of Agincourt
having set his heart upon the conquest of France, left
Ireland to his lieutenants and their deputies. Nor could
his attention be aroused to the English interest in that
country, even by the formal declaration of the Speaker
of the English Parliament, that "the greater part of the
lordship of Ireland" had been "conquered" by the natives.

The comparatively new family of Talbot, sustained by the
influence of the great Earl of Shrewsbury, now Seneschal
of France, had risen to the highest pitch of influence.
When on the accession of Henry VI., Edward Mortimer, Earl
of March, was appointed Lord Lieutenant, and Dantsey,
Bishop of Meath, his deputy, Talbot, Archbishop of Dublin,
and Lord Chancellor, refused to acknowledge Dantsey's
pretensions because his commission was given under the
private seal of Lord Mortimer. Having effected his object
in this instance, the Archbishop directed his subsequent
attacks against the House of Ormond, the chief favourites
of the King, or rather of the Council, in that reign. In
1441, at a Dublin Parliament, messengers were appointed
to convey certain articles to the King, the purport of
which was to prevent the Earl of Ormond from being made
Lord Lieutenant, alleging against him many misdemeanours
in his former administration, and praying that some
"mighty lord of England" might be named to that office
to execute the laws more effectually "than any Irishman
ever did or ever will do."

This attempt to destroy the influence of Ormond led to
an alliance between that Earl and Sir James, afterwards
seventh Earl of Desmond. Sir James was son of Gerald,
fourth Earl (distinguished as "the Rhymer," or Magician),
by the lady Eleanor Butler, daughter of the second Earl
of Ormond. He stood, therefore, in the relation of cousin
to the cotemporary head of the Butler family. When his
nephew Thomas openly violated the Statute of Kilkenny,
by marrying the beautiful Catherine McCormac, the ambitious
and intriguing Sir James, anxious to enforce that statute,
found a ready seconder in Ormond. Earl Thomas, forced to
quit the country, died an exile at Rouen, in France, and
Sir James, after many intrigues and negotiations, obtained
the title and estates. For once the necessities of Desmond
and Ormond united these houses, but the money of the
English Archbishop of Dublin, backed by the influence of
his illustrious brother, proved equal to them both. In
the first twenty-five years of the reign of Henry VI.
(1422-1447,) Ormond was five times Lieutenant or Deputy,
and Talbot five times Deputy, Lord Justice, or Lord
Commissioner. Their factious controversy culminated with
"the articles" adopted in 1441, which altogether failed
of the intended effect; Ormond was reappointed two years
afterwards to his old office; nor was it till 1446, when
the Earl of Shrewsbury was a third time sent over, that
the Talbots had any substantial advantage over their
rivals. The recall of the Earl for service in France,
and the death of the Archbishop two years later, though
it deprived the party they had formed of a resident
leader, did not lead to its dissolution. Bound together
by common interests and dangers, their action may be
traced in opposition to the Geraldines, through the
remaining years of Henry VI., and perhaps so late as the
earlier years of Henry VII. (1485-1500).

In the struggle of dynasties from which England suffered
so severely during the fifteenth century, the drama of
ambition shifted its scenes from London and York to Calais
and Dublin. The appointment of Richard, Duke of York,
as Lord Lieutenant, in 1449, presented him an opportunity
of creating a Yorkist party among the nobles and people
of "the Pale." This able and ambitious Prince possessed
in his hereditary estate resources equal to great
enterprises. He was in the first place the representative
of the third son of Edward III.; on the death of his
cousin the Earl of March, in 1424, he became heir to that
property and title. He was Duke of York, Earl of March,
and Earl of Rutland, in England; Earl of Ulster and Earl
of Cork, Lord of Connaught, Clare, Meath, and Trim, in
Ireland. He had been, twice Regent of France, during the
minority of Henry, where he upheld the cause of the
Plantagenet King with signal ability. By the peace
concluded at Tours, between England, France, and Burgundy,
in 1444, he was enabled to return to England, where the
King had lately come of age, and begun to exhibit the
weak though amiable disposition which led to his ruin.
The events of the succeeding two or three years were
calculated to expose Henry to the odium of his subjects
and the machinations of his enemies. Town after town and
province after province were lost in France; the Regent
Somerset returned to experience the full force of this
unpopularity; the royal favourite, Suffolk, was banished,
pursued, and murdered at sea; the King's uncles, Cardinal
Beaufort and the Duke of Gloucester, were removed by
death--so that every sign and circumstance of the time
whispered encouragement to the ambitious Duke. When,
therefore, the Irish lieutenancy was offered, in order
to separate him from his partizans, he at first refused
it; subsequently, however, he accepted, on conditions
dictated by himself, calculated to leave him wholly his
own master. These conditions, reduced to writing in the
form of an Indenture between the King and the Duke,
extended his lieutenancy to a period of ten years; allowed
him, besides the entire revenue of Ireland, an annual
subsidy from England; full power to let the King's land,
to levy and maintain soldiers, to place or displace all
officers, to appoint a Deputy, and to return to England
at his pleasure. On these terms the ex-Regent of France
undertook the government of the English settlement in
Ireland.

Arrived at Dublin, _the_ Duke (as in his day he was always
called,) employed himself rather to strengthen his party
than to extend the limits of his government. Soon after
his arrival a son was born to him, and baptized with
great pomp in the Castle. James, fifth Earl of Ormond,
and Thomas, eighth Earl of Desmond, were invited to stand
as sponsors. In the line of policy indicated by this
choice, he steadily persevered during his whole connection
with Ireland--which lasted till his death, in 1460.
Alternately he named a Butler and a Geraldine as his
deputy, and although he failed ultimately to win the Earl
of Ormond from the traditional party of his family, he
secured the attachment of several of his kinsmen. Stirring
events in England, the year after his appointment, made
it necessary for him to return immediately. The unpopularity
of the administration which had banished him had rapidly
augmented. The French King had recovered the whole of
Normandy, for four centuries annexed to the English Crown.
Nothing but Calais remained of all the Continental
possessions which the Plantagenets had inherited, and
which Henry V. had done so much to strengthen and extend.
Domestic abuses aggravated the discontent arising from
foreign defeats. The Bishop of Chichester, one of the
ministers, was set upon and slain by a mob at Portsmouth.
Twenty thousand men of Kent, under the command of Jack
Cade, an Anglo-Irishman, who had given himself out as a
son of the last Earl of March, who died in the Irish
government twenty-five years before, marched upon London.
They defeated a royal force at Sevenoaks, and the city
opened its gate at the summons of Cade. The Kentish men
took possession of Southwark, while their Irish leader
for three days, entering the city every morning, compelled
the mayor and the judges to sit in the Guildhall, tried
and sentenced Lord Say to death, who, with his son-in-law,
Cromer, Sheriff of Kent, was accordingly executed. Every
evening, as he had promised the citizens, he retired with
his guards across the river, preserving the strictest
order among them. But the royalists were not idle, and
when, on the fourth morning Cade attempted as usual to
enter London proper, he found the bridge of Southwark
barricaded and defended by a strong force under the Lord
Scales. After six hours' hard fighting his raw levies
were repulsed, and many of them accepted a free pardon
tendered to them in the moment of defeat. Cade retired
with the remainder on Deptford and Rochester, but gradually
abandoned by them, he was surprised, half famished in a
garden at Heyfield, and put to death. His captor claimed
and received the large reward of a thousand marks offered
for his head. This was in the second week of July; on
the 1st of September, news was brought to London that
the Duke of York had suddenly landed from Ireland. His
partizans eagerly gathered round him at his castle of
Fotheringay, but for five years longer, by the repeated
concessions of the gentle-minded Henry, and the
interposition of powerful mediators, the actual war of
the roses was postponed.

It is beyond our province to follow the details of that
ferocious struggle, which was waged almost incessantly
from 1455 till 1471--from the first battle of St. Albans
till the final battle at Tewksbury. We are interested in
it mainly as it connects the fortunes of the Anglo-Irish
Earls with one or other of the dynasties; and their
fortunes again, with the benefit or disadvantage of their
allies and relatives among our native Princes. Of the
transactions in England, it may be sufficient to say that
the Duke of York, after his victory at St. Albans in '55,
was declared Lord Protector of the realm during Henry's
imbecility; that the next year the King recovered and
the Protector's office was abolished; that in '57 both
parties stood at bay; in '58 an insecure peace was patched
up between them; in '59 they appealed to arms, the Yorkists
gained a victory at Bloreheath, but being defeated at
Ludiford, Duke Richard, with one of his sons, fled for
safety into Ireland.

It was the month of November when the fugitive Duke
arrived to resume the Lord Lieutenancy which he had
formerly exercised. Legally, his commission, for those
who recognized the authority of King Henry, had expired
four months before--as it bore date from July 5th, 1449;
but it is evident the majority of the Anglo-Irish received
him as a Prince of their own election rather than as an
ordinary Viceroy. He held, soon after his arrival, a
Parliament at Dublin, which met by adjournment at Drogheda
the following spring. The English Parliament having
declared him, his duchess, sons, and principal adherents
traitors, and writs to that effect having been sent over,
the Irish Parliament passed a declaratory Act (1460)
making the service of all such writs treason against
_their_ authority--"it having been ever customary in
their land to receive and entertain strangers with due
respect and hospitality." Under this law, an emissary of
the Earl of Ormond, upon whom English writs against the
fugitives were found, was executed as a traitor. This
independent Parliament confirmed the Duke in his office;
made it high treason to imagine his death, and--taking
advantage of the favourable conjuncture of affairs--they
further declared that the inhabitants of Ireland could
only be bound by laws made in Ireland; that no writs were
of force unless issued under the great seal of Ireland;
that the realm had of ancient right its own Lord Constable
and Earl Marshal, by whom alone trials for treason alleged
to have been committed in Ireland could be conducted. In
the same busy spring, the Earl of Warwick (so celebrated
as "the Kingmaker" of English history) sailed from Calais,
of which he was Constable, with the Channel-fleet, of
which he was also in command, and doubling the Land's
End of England, arrived at Dublin to concert measures
for another rising in England. He found the Duke at Dublin
"surrounded by his Earls and homagers," and measures were
soon concerted between them.

An appeal to the English nation was prepared at this
Conference, charging upon Henry's advisers that they had
written to the French King to besiege Calais, and to the
Irish Princes to expel the English settlers. The loyalty
of the fugitive lords, and their readiness to prove their
innocence before their sovereign, were stoutly asserted.
Emissaries were despatched in every direction; troops
were raised; Warwick soon after landed in Kent-always
strongly pro-Yorkist-defeated the royalists at Northampton
in July, and the Duke reaching London in October, a
compromise was agreed to, after much discussion, in which
Henry was to have the crown for life, while the Duke was
acknowledged as his successor, and created president of
his council.

We have frequently remarked in our history the recurrence
of conflicts between the north and south of the island.
The same thing is distinctly traceable through the annals
of England down to a quite recent period. Whether difference
of race, or of admixture of race may not lie at the
foundation of such long-living enmities, we will not here
attempt to discuss; such, however, is the fact. Queen
Margaret had fled northward after the defeat of Northampton
towards the Scottish border, from which she now returned
at the head of 20,000 men. The Duke advanced rapidly to
meet her, and engaging with a far inferior force at
Wakefield, was slain in the field, or beheaded after the
battle. All now seemed lost to the Yorkist party, when
young Edward, son of Duke Richard, advancing from the
marches of Wales at the head of an army equal in numbers
to the royalists, won, in the month of February, 1461,
the battles of Mortimers-cross and Barnet, and was crowned
at Westminster in March, by the title of Edward IV. The
sanguinary battle of Towton, soon after his coronation,
where 38,000 dead were reckoned by the heralds, confirmed
his title and established his throne. Even the subsequent
hostility of Warwick--though it compelled him once to
surrender himself a prisoner, and once to fly the
country--did not finally transfer the sceptre to his
rival. Warwick was slain in the battle of Tewkesbury
(1471), the Lancasterian Prince Edward was put to death
on the field, and his unhappy father was murdered in
prison. Two years later, Henry, Earl of Richmond, grandson
of Catherine, Queen of Henry V. and Owen Ap Tudor, the
only remaining leader capable of rallying the beaten
party, was driven into exile in France, from which he
returned fourteen years afterwards to contest the crown
with Richard III.

In these English wars, the only Irish nobleman who
sustained the Lancasterian cause was James, fifth Earl
of Ormond. He had been created by Henry, Earl of Wiltshire,
during his father's lifetime, in the same year in which
his father stood sponsor in Dublin for the son of the
Duke. He succeeded to the Irish title and estates in
1451: held a foremost rank in almost all the engagements
from the battle of Saint Albans to that of Towton, in
which he was taken prisoner and executed by order of
Edward IV. His blood was declared attainted, and his
estates forfeited; but a few years later both the title
and property were restored to Sir John Butler, the sixth
Earl. On the eve of the open rupture between the Roses,
another name intimately associated with Ireland disappeared
from the roll of the English nobility. The veteran Talbot,
Earl of Shrewsbury, in the eightieth year of his age,
accepted the command of the English forces in France,
retook the city of Bordeaux, but fell in attack on the
French camp at Chatillon, in the subsequent campaign-1453.
His son, Lord Lisle, was slain at the same time, defending
his father's body. Among other consequences which ensued,
the Talbot interest in Ireland suffered from the loss of
so powerful a patron at the English court. We have only
to add that at Wakefield, and in most of the other
engagements, there was a strong Anglo-Irish contingent
in the Yorkist ranks, and a smaller one--chiefly tenants
of Ormond--on the opposite side. Many writers complain
that the House of York drained "the Pale" of its defenders,
and thus still further diminished the resources of the
English interest in Ireland.

In the last forty years of the fifteenth century, the
history of "the Pale" is the biography of the family of
the Geraldines. We must make some brief mention of the
remarkable men to whom we refer.

Thomas, eighth Earl of Desmond, for his services to the
House of York, was appointed Lord Deputy in the first
years of Edward IV. He had naturally made himself obnoxious
to the Ormond interest, but still more so to the Talbots,
whose leader in civil contests was Sherwood, Bishop of
Meath--for some years, in despite of the Geraldines, Lord
Chancellor. Between him and Desmond there existed the
bitterest animosity. In 1464, nine of the Deputy's men
were slain in a broil in Fingall, by tenants or servants
of the Bishop. The next year each party repaired to London
to vindicate himself and criminate his antagonist. The
Bishop seems to have triumphed, for in 1466, John Tiptoft,
Earl of Worcester, called in England, for his barbarity
to Lancasterian prisoners, "the Butcher," superseded
Desmond. The movement of Thaddeus O'Brien, already related,
the same year, gave Tiptoft grounds for accusing Desmond,
Kildare, Sir Edward Plunkett, and others, of treason. On
this charge he summoned them before him at Drogheda in
the following February. Kildare wisely fled to England,
where he pleaded his innocence successfully with the
King. But Desmond and Plunkett, over-confident of their
own influence, repaired to Drogheda, were tried, condemned,
and beheaded. Their execution took place on the 15th day
of February, 1467. It is instructive to add that Tiptoft,
a few years later, underwent the fate in England, without
exciting a particle of the sympathy felt for Desmond.

Thomas, seventh Earl of Kildare, succeeded on his safe
return from England to more than the power of his late
relative. The office of Chancellor, after a sharp
struggle, was taken from Bishop Sherwood, and confirmed
to him for life by an act of the twelfth, Edward III. He
had been named Lord Justice after Tiptoft's recall, in
1467, and four years later exchanged the title for that
of Lord Deputy to the young Duke of Clarence--the nominal
Lieutenant. In 1475, on some change of Court favour, the
supreme power was taken from him, and conferred on the
old enemy of his House, the Bishop of Meath. Kildare died
two years later, having signalized his latter days by
founding an Anglo-Irish order of chivalry, called "the
Brothers of St. George." This order was to consist of 13
persons of the highest rank within the Pale, 120 mounted
archers, and 40 horsemen, attended by 40 pages. The
officers were to assemble annually in Dublin, on St.
George's Day, to elect their Captain from their own
number. After having existed twenty years the Brotherhood
was suppressed by the jealousy of Henry VII., in 1494.

Gerald, eighth Earl of Kildare (called in the Irish Annals
Geroit More, or "the Great"), succeeded his father in
1477. He had the gratification of ousting Sherwood from
the government the following year, and having it transferred
to himself. For nearly forty years he continued the
central figure among the Anglo-Irish, and as his family
were closely connected by marriage with the McCarthys,
O'Carrolls of Ely, the O'Conors of Offally, O'Neils and
O'Donnells, he exercised immense influence over the
affairs of all the Provinces. In his tune, moreover, the
English interest, under the auspices of an undisturbed
dynasty, and a cautious, politic Prince (Henry VII.),
began by slow and almost imperceptible degrees to recover
the unity and compactness it had lost ever since the Red
Earl's death.




CHAPTER VIII.

THE AGE AND RULE OF GERALD, EIGHTH EARL OF KILDARE--THE
TIDE BEGINS TO TURN FOR THE ENGLISH INTEREST--THE YORKIST
PRETENDERS, SIMNEL AND WARBECK--POYNING'S PARLIAMENT--
BATTLES OF KNOCKDOE AND MONABRAHER.

Perhaps no preface could better introduce to the reader
the singular events which marked the times of Gerald,
eighth Earl of Kildare, than a brief account of one of
his principal partizans--Sir James Keating, Prior of the
Knights of St. John. The family of Keating, of Norman-Irish
origin, were most numerous in the fifteenth century in
Kildare, from which they afterwards spread into Tipperary
and Limerick. Sir James Keating, "a mere Irishman," became
Prior of Kilmainham about the year 1461, at which time
Sir Robert Dowdal, deputy to the Lord Treasurer, complained
in Parliament, that being on a pilgrimage to one of the
shrines of the Pale, he was assaulted near Cloniff, by
the Prior, with a drawn sword, and thereby put in danger
of his life. It was accordingly decreed that Keating
should pay to the King a hundred pounds fine, and to Sir
Robert a hundred marks; but, from certain technical errors
in the proceedings, he successfully evaded both these
penalties. When in the year 1478 the Lord Grey of Codner
was sent over to supersede Kildare, he took the decided
step of refusing to surrender to that nobleman the Castle
of Dublin, of which he was Constable. Being threatened
with an assault, he broke down the bridge and prepared
his defence, while his Mend, the Earl of Kildare, called
a Parliament at Naas, in opposition to Lord Grey's Assembly
at Dublin. In 1480, after two years of rival parties and
viceroys, Lord Grey was feign to resign his office, and
Kildare was regularly appointed Deputy to Richard, Duke
of Gloucester, afterwards Richard III. Two years later,
Keating was deprived of his rank by Peter d'Aubusson,
Grand Master of Rhodes, who appointed Sir Marmaduke
Lumley, an English knight, in his stead. Sir Marmaduke
landed soon after at Clontarf, where he was taken prisoner
by Keating, and kept in close confinement until he had
surrendered all the instruments of his election and
confirmation. He was then enlarged, and appointed to the
commandery of Kilseran, near Castlebellingham, in Louth.
In the year 1488, Keating was one of those who took an
active part in favour of the pretender Lambert Simnel,
and although his pardon had been sternly refused by
Henry VII., he retained possession of the Hospital until
1491, when he was ejected by force, "and ended his
turbulent life," as we are told, "in the most abject
poverty and disgrace." All whom he had appointed to office
were removed; an Act of Parliament was passed, prohibiting
the reception of any "mere Irishman" into the Order for
the future, and enacting that whoever was recognized as
Prior by the Grand Master should be of English birth,
and one having such a connection with the Order there as
might strengthen the force and interest of the Kings of
England in Ireland.

The fact most indicative of the spirit of the times is,
that a man of Prior Keating's disposition could, for
thirty years, have played such a daring part as we have
described in the city of Dublin. During the greater part
of that period, he held the office of Constable of the
Castle and Prior of Kilmainham, in defiance of English
Deputies and English Kings; than which no farther evidence
may be adduced to show how completely the English, interest
was extinguished, even within the walls of Dublin, during
the reign of the last of the Plantagenet Princes, and
the first years of Henry VII.

In 1485, Henry, Earl of Richmond, grandson of Queen
Catherine and Owen ap Tudor, returned from his fourteen
years' exile in France, and, by the victory of Bosworth,
took possession of the throne. The Earl of Kildare,
undisputed Deputy during the last years of Edward IV.,
had been continued by Richard, and was not removed by
Henry VII. Though a staunch Yorkist, he showed no outward
opposition to the change of dynasty, for which he found
a graceful apology soon afterwards. Being at Mass, in
Christ's Church Cathedral, on the 2nd of February, 1486,
he received intelligence of Henry's marriage with Elizabeth
of York, which he at once communicated to the Archbishop
of Dublin, and ordered an additional Mass for the King
and Queen. Yet, from the hour of that union of the houses
of York and Lancaster, it needed no extraordinary wisdom
to foresee that the exemption of the Anglo-Irish nobles
from the supremacy of their nominal King must come to an
end, and the freedom of the old Irish from any formidable
external danger must also close. The union of the Roses,
so full of the promise of peace for England, was to form
the date of a new era in her relations with Ireland. The
tide of English power was at that hour at its lowest ebb;
it had left far in the interior the landmarks of its
first irresistible rush; it might be said, without
exaggeration, that Gaelic children now gathered shells
and pebbles where that tide once rolled, charged with
all its thunders; it was now about to turn; the first
murmuring menace of new encroachments began to be heard
under Henry VII.; as we listen they grow louder on the
ear; the waves advance with a steady, deliberate march,
unlike the first impetuous onslaught of the Normans; they
advance and do not recede, till they recover all the
ground they had abandoned. The era which we dated from
the Red Earl's death, in 1333, has exhausted its resources
of aggression and assimilation; a new era opens with the
reign of Henry VII.--or more distinctly still, with that
of his successor, Henry VIII. We must close our account
with the old era, before entering upon the new.

The contest between the Earl of Kildare and Lord Grey
for the government (1478-1480) marks the lowest ebb of
the English power. We have already related how Prior
Keating shut the Castle gates on the English deputy, and
threatened to fire on his guard if he attempted to force
them. Lord Portlester also, the Chancellor, and
father-in-law to Kildare, joined that Earl in his Parliament
at Naas with the great seal. Lord Grey, in his Dublin
Assembly, declared the great seal cancelled, and ordered
a new one to be struck, but after a two years' contest
he was obliged to succumb to the greater influence of
the Geraldines. Kildare was regularly acknowledged Lord
Deputy, under the King's privy seal. It was ordained that
thereafter there should be but one Parliament convoked
during the year; that but one subsidy should be demanded,
annually, the sum "not to exceed a thousand marks."
Certain Acts of both Parliaments--Grey's and
Kildare's--were by compromise confirmed. Of these were
two which do not seem to collate very well with each
other; one prohibiting the inhabitants of the Pale from
holding any intercourse whatsoever with the mere Irish;
the other extending to Con O'Neil, Prince of Tyrone, and
brother-in-law of Kildare, the rights of a naturalized
subject within the Pale. The former was probably Lord
Grey's; the latter was Lord Kildare's legislation.

Although Henry VII. had neither disturbed the Earl in
his governments, nor his brother, Lord Thomas, as
Chancellor, it was not to be expected that he could place
entire confidence in the leading Yorkist family among
the Anglo-Irish. The restoration of the Ormond estates,
in favour of Thomas, seventh Earl, was both politic and
just, and could hardly be objectionable to Kildare, who
had just married one of his daughters to Pierce Butler,
nephew and heir to Thomas. The want of confidence between
the new King and his Deputy was first exhibited in 1486,
when the Earl, being summoned to attend on his Majesty,
called a Parliament at Trim, which voted him an address,
representing that in the affairs about to be discussed,
his presence was absolutely necessary. Henry affected to
accept the excuse as valid, but every arrival of Court
news contained some fresh indication of his deep-seated
mistrust of the Lord Deputy, who, however, he dared not
yet dismiss.

The only surviving Yorkists who could put forward
pretensions to the throne were the Earl of Lincoln,
Richard's declared heir, and the young Earl of Warwick,
son of that Duke of Clarence who was born in Dublin Castle
in 1449. Lincoln, with Lord Lovell and others of his
friends, was in exile at the court of the dowager Duchess
of Burgundy, sister to Edward IV.; and the son of
Clarence--a lad of fifteen years of age--was a prisoner
in the Tower. In the year 1486, a report spread of the
escape of this Prince, and soon afterwards Richard Symon,
a Priest of Oxford, landed in Dublin with a youth of the
same age, of prepossessing appearance and address, who
could relate with the minutest detail the incidents of
his previous imprisonment. He was at once recognized as
the son of Clarence by the Earl of Kildare and his party,
and preparations were made for his coronation by the
title of Edward VI. Henry, alarmed, produced from the
Tower the genuine Warwick, whom he publicly paraded
through London, in order to prove that the pretender in
Dublin was an impostor. The Duchess of Burgundy, however,
fitted out a fleet, containing 2,000 veteran troops,
under the command of Martin Swart, who, sailing up the
channel, reached Dublin without interruption. With this
fleet came the Earl of Lincoln, Lord Lovell, and the
other English refugees, who all recognized the _protege_
of Father Symon as the true Prince. Octavius, the Italian
Archbishop of Armagh, then residing at Dublin, the Bishop
of Clogher, the Butlers, and the Baron of Howth, were
incredulous or hostile. The great majority of the
Anglo-Irish lords, spiritual and temporal, favoured his
cause, and he was accordingly crowned in Christ Church
Cathedral, with a diadem taken from an image of our Lady,
on the 24th of May, 1487; the Deputy, Chancellor, and
Treasurer were present; the sermon was preached by Pain,
Bishop of Meath. A Parliament was next convoked in his
name, in which the Butlers and citizens of Waterford were
proscribed as traitors. A herald from the latter city,
who had spoken over boldly, was hanged by the Dubliners
as a proof of their loyalty. The Council ordered a force
to be equipped for the service of his new Majesty in
England, and Lord Thomas Fitzgerald resigned the
Chancellorship to take the command. This expedition--the
last which invaded England from the side of Ireland
--sailed from Dublin about the first of June, and landing
on the Lancashire shore, at the pile of Foudray, marched
to Ulverstone, where they were joined by Sir Thomas
Broughton and other devoted Yorkists. From Ulverstone
the whole force, about 8,000 strong, marched into Yorkshire,
and from Yorkshire southwards into Nottingham. Henry,
who had been engaged in making a progress through the
southern counties, hastened to meet him, and both armies
met at Stoke-upon-Trent, near Newark, on the 16th day of
June, 1487. The battle was contested with the utmost
obstinacy, but the English prevailed. The Earl of Lincoln,
the Lords Thomas and Maurice Fitzgerald, Plunkett, son
of Lord Killeen, Martin Swart, and Sir Thomas Broughton
were slain; Lord Lovell escaped, but was never heard of
afterwards; the pretended Edward VI. was captured, and
spared by Henry only to be made a scullion in his kitchen.
Father Symon was cast into prison, where he died, after
having confessed that his _protege_ was Lambert Simnel,
the son of a joiner at Oxford.

Nothing shows the strength of the Kildare party, and the
weakness of the English interest, more than that the
deputy and his partizans were still continued in office.
They despatched a joint letter to the King, deprecating
his anger, which he was prudent enough to conceal. He
sent over, the following spring, Sir Richard Edgecombe,
Comptroller of his household, accompanied by a guard of
500 men. Sir Richard first touched at Kinsale, where he
received the homage of the Lords Barry and de Courcy; he
then sailed to Waterford, where he delivered to the Mayor
royal letters confirming the city in its privileges, and
authorizing its merchants to seize and distress those of
Dublin, unless they made their submission. After leaving
Waterford, he landed at Malahide, passing by Dublin, to
which he proceeded by land, accompanied with his guard.
The Earl of Kildare was absent on a pilgrimage, from
which he did not return for several days. His first
interviews with Edgecombe were cold and formal, but
finally on the 21st of July, after eight or ten days'
disputation, the Earl and the other lords of his party
did homage to King Henry, in the great chamber of his
town-house in Thomas Court, and thence proceeding to the
chapel, took the oath of allegiance on the consecrated
host. With this submission Henry was fain to be content;
Kildare, Portlester, and Plunkett were continued in
office. The only one to whom the King's pardon was
persistently refused was Sir James Keating, Prior of
Kilmainham.

In the subsequent attempts of Perkin Warbeck (1492-1499),
in the character of Richard, Duke of York, one of the
Princes murdered in the tower by Richard III., the
Anglo-Irish took a less active part. Warbeck landed at
Cork from Lisbon, and despatched letters to the Earls of
Kildare and Desmond, to which they returned civil but
evasive replies. At Cork he received an invitation from
the King of France to visit that country, where he remained
till the conclusion of peace between France and England.
He then retired to Burgundy, where he was cordially
received by the Duchess; after an unsuccessful descent
on the coast of Kent, he took refuge in Scotland, where
he married a lady closely allied to the crown. In 1497
he again tried his fortune in the South of Ireland, was
joined by Maurice, tenth Earl of Desmond, the Lord Barry,
and the citizens of Cork. Having laid siege to Waterford,
he was compelled to retire with loss, and Desmond having
made his peace with Henry, Warbeck was forced again to
fly into Scotland. In 1497 and '8, he made new attempts
to excite insurrection in his favour in the north of
England and in Cornwall. He was finally taken and put
to death on the 16th of November, 1499. With him suffered
his first and most faithful adherent, John Waters, who
had been Mayor of Cork at his first landing from Lisbon,
in 1492, and who is ignorantly or designedly called by
Henry's partizan "O'Water." History has not yet positively
established the fraudulency of this pretender. A late
eminently cautious writer, with all the evidence which
modern research has accumulated, speaks of him as "one
of the most mysterious persons in English history;" and
in mystery we must leave him.

We have somewhat anticipated events, in other quarters,
in order to dispose of both the Yorkist pretenders at
the same time. The situation of the Earls of Kildare in
this and the next reign, though full of grandeur, was
also full of peril. Within the Pale they had one part to
play, with