ear the road. There are about seven hundred of them in
 the island. What renders them peculiarly objects of sympathy is, that
 they were sent here for life, and no hope of any remission of
 sentence is held out to them for good conduct. Their's is a hopeless
 bondage; and though it is said by some that they are not hard worked,
 yet they are generally, perhaps constantly, breaking stones and
 mending the road, and in a tropical sun. There are among them persons
 who were so young when transported that, in their offences, they
 could only be looked on as the dupes of those that were older; and
 many of them bear good characters."[114]

At the date to which these passages refer there was a dreadful famine
in India; but, "during the prevalence of this famine," as we are
told,--

 "Rice was going every hour out of the country. 230,371 bags of 164
 pounds each--making 37,780,844 lbs.--were exported from Calcutta.
 Where? To the Mauritius, to feed the kidnapped Coolies. Yes: to feed
 the men who had been stolen from the banks of the Ganges and the
 hills adjacent, and dragged from their native shore, under pretence
 of going to one of the Company's villages, to grow in the island of
 Mauritius what they might have grown in abundance upon their own
 fertile, but over-taxed land. The total amount of rice exported from
 Calcutta, during the famine in 1838, was 151,923,696 lbs., besides
 13,722,408 lbs. of other edible grains, which would have fed and kept
 alive all those who perished that year. Wives might have been saved
 to their husbands, babes to their mothers, friends to their friends;
 villages might still have been peopled; a sterile land might have
 been restored to verdure. Freshness and joy and the voices of
 gladness, might have been there. Now, all is stillness, and
 desolation, and death. Yet we are told we have nothing to do with
 India."[115]

The nation that exports raw produce _must_ exhaust its land, and then
it _must_ export its men, who fly from famine, leaving the women and
children to perish behind them.

By aid of continued Coolie immigration the export of sugar from the
Mauritius has been doubled in the last sixteen years, having risen
from 70 to 140 millions of pounds. Sugar is therefore very cheap, and
the foreign competition is thereby driven from the British market.
"Such conquests," however, says, very truly, the London _Spectator_--

 "Don't always bring profit to the conqueror; nor does production
 itself prove prosperity. Competition for the possession of a field
 may be carried so far as to reduce prices below prime cost; and it is
 clear from the notorious facts of the West Indies--from the change of
 property, from the total unproductiveness of much property
 still--that the West India production of sugar has been carried on,
 not only without replacing capital, but with a constant sinking of
 capital."

The "free" Coolie and the "free negro" of Jamaica, have been urged to
competition for the sale of sugar, and they seem likely to perish
together; but compensation for this is found in the fact that--

 "Free-trade has, in reducing the prices of commodities for home
 consumption, enabled the labourer to devote a greater share of his
 income toward purchasing clothing and luxuries, and has increased the
 home trade to an enormous extent."[116]

What effect this reduction of "the prices of commodities for home
consumption" has had upon the poor Coolie, may be judged from the
following passage:--

 "I here beheld, for the first time, a class of beings of whom we have
 heard much, and for whom I have felt considerable interest. I refer
 to the Coolies imported by the British government to take the place
 of the _faineant_ negroes, when the apprenticeship system was
 abolished. Those that I saw were wandering about the streets, dressed
 rather tastefully, but always meanly, and usually carrying over their
 shoulder a sort of _chiffonier's_ sack, in which they threw whatever
 refuse stuff they found in the streets or received as charity. Their
 figures are generally superb; and their Eastern costume, to which
 they adhere as far as their poverty will permit of any clothing, sets
 off their lithe and graceful forms to great advantage. Their faces
 are almost uniformly of the finest classic mould, and illuminated by
 pairs of those dark swimming and propitiatory eyes, which exhaust the
 language of tenderness and passion at a glance.

 "But they are the most inveterate mendicants on the island. It is
 said that those brought from the interior of India are faithful and
 efficient workmen, while those from Calcutta and its vicinity are
 good for nothing. Those that were prowling about the streets of
 Spanish-town and Kingston, I presume, were of the latter class, for
 there is not a planter on the island, it is said, from whom it would
 be more difficult to get any work than from one of these. They
 subsist by begging altogether: they are not vicious, nor intemperate,
 nor troublesome particularly, except as beggars. In that calling they
 have a pertinacity before which a Northern mendicant would grow pale.
 They will not be denied. They will stand perfectly still and look
 through a window from the street for a quarter of an hour, if not
 driven away, with their imploring eyes fixed upon you, like a
 stricken deer, without saying a word or moving a muscle. They act as
 if it were no disgrace for them to beg, as if the least
 indemnification which they are entitled to expect, for the outrage
 perpetrated upon them in bringing them from their distant homes to
 this strange island, is a daily supply of their few and cheap
 necessities, as they call for them.

 "I confess that their begging did not leave upon my mind the
 impression produced by ordinary mendicancy. They do not look as if
 they ought to work. I never saw one smile, and though they showed no
 positive suffering, I never saw one look happy. Each face seemed to
 be constantly telling the unhappy story of their woes, and like
 fragments of a broken mirror, each reflecting in all its hateful
 proportions the national outrage of which they are the victims."[117]

The slave trade has taken a new form, the mild and gentle Hindoo
having taken the place of the barbarous and fierce African; and this
trade is likely to continue so long as it shall be held to be the
chief object of the government of a Christian people to secure to its
people cheap cotton and sugar, without regard to the destruction of
life of which that cheapness is the cause. The people of England send
to India missionary priests and bishops, but they obtain few converts;
nor can it ever be otherwise under a system which tends to destroy the
power of association, and thus prevents that diversification of
employments that is indispensable to the improvement of physical,
moral, intellectual, or political condition. May we not hope that at
no very distant day they will arrive at the conclusion that such
association is as necessary to the Hindoo as they know it to be to
themselves, and that if they desire success in their attempts to bring
the followers of Mohammed, or of Brahma, to an appreciation of the
doctrines of Christ, they must show that their practice and their
teachings are in some degree in harmony with each other? When that day
shall come they will be seen endeavouring to remedy the evil they have
caused, and permitting the poor Hindoo to obtain establishments in
which labour may be combined for the production of iron and of
machinery, by aid of which the native cotton may be twisted in the
neighbourhood in which it is produced, thus enabling the now unhappy
cultivator to exchange directly with his food-producing neighbour,
relieved from the necessity for sending his products to a distance, to
be brought back again in the form of yarn or cloth, at fifteen or
twenty times the price at which he sold it in the form of cotton. That
time arrived, they will appreciate the sound good sense contained in
the following remarks of Colonel Sleeman:--

 "If we had any great establishment of this sort in which Christians
 could find employment, and the means of religious and secular
 instruction, thousands of converts would soon flock to them; and they
 would become vast sources of future improvement in industry, social
 comfort, municipal institutions, and religion. What chiefly prevents
 the spread of Christianity in India is the dread of exclusion from
 caste and all its privileges; and the utter hopelessness of their
 ever finding any respectable circle of society of the adopted
 religion, which converts, or would be converts to Christianity, now
 everywhere feel. Form such circles for them--make the members of
 these circles happy in the exertion of honest and independent
 industry--let those who rise to eminence in them feel that they are
 considered as respectable and as important in the social system as
 the servants of government, and converts will flock around you from
 all parts, and from all classes of the Hindoo community. * * * I am
 persuaded that a dozen such establishments as that of Mr. Thomas
 Ashton, of Hyde, as described by a physician of Manchester, and
 noticed in Mr. Baines's admirable work on the Cotton Manufactures of
 Great Britain, (page 447,) would do more in the way of conversion
 among the people of India than has ever yet been done by all the
 religious establishments, or ever will be done by them without some
 such aid."--Vol. ii. 164.

That there is a steady increase in the tendency toward personal
servitude, or slavery, in India, no one can doubt who will study
carefully the books on that country; and it may not be amiss to
inquire on whom rests the responsibility for this state of things. By
several of the persons that have been quoted, Messrs. Thompson,
Bright, and others, it is charged upon the Company; but none that read
the works of Messrs. Campbell and Sleeman can hesitate to believe that
the direction is now animated by a serious desire to improve the
condition of its poor subjects. Unfortunately, however, the Company is
nearly in the condition of the land-holders of Jamaica, and is itself
tending toward ruin, because its subjects are limited to agriculture,
and because they receive so small a portion of the value of their very
small quantity of products. Now, as in the days of _Joshua Gee_, the
largest portion of that value remains in England, whose people eat
cheap sugar while its producer starves in India. Cheap sugar and cheap
cotton are obtained by the sacrifice of the interests of a great
nation; and while the policy of England shall continue to look to
driving the women and children of India to the labours of the field,
and the men to the raising of sugar in the Mauritius, the soil must
continue to grow poorer, the people must become more and more
enslaved, and the government must find itself more and more dependent
for revenue on the power to poison the people of China; and therefore
will it be seen that however good may be the intentions of the
gentlemen charged with the duties of government, they must find
themselves more and more compelled to grind the poor ryot in the hope
of obtaining revenue.




CHAPTER XIII.

HOW SLAVERY GROWS IN IRELAND AND SCOTLAND.


The government which followed the completion of the Revolution of
1688, pledged itself to discountenance the woollen manufacture of
Ireland, with a view to compel the export of raw wool to England,
whence its exportation to foreign countries was prohibited; the effect
of which was, of course, to enable the English manufacturer to
purchase it at his own price. From that period forward we find
numerous regulations as to the ports from which alone woollen yarn or
cloth might go to England, and the ports of the latter through which
it might come; while no effort was spared to induce the people of
Ireland to abandon woollens and take to flax. Laws were passed
prohibiting the export of Irish cloth and glass to the colonies. By
other laws Irish ships were deprived of the benefit of the navigation
laws. The fisheries were closed against them. No sugar could be
imported from any place but Great Britain, and no drawback was allowed
on its exportation to Ireland; and thus was the latter compelled to
pay a tax for the support of the British government, while maintaining
its own. All other colonial produce was required to be carried first
to England, after which it might be shipped to Ireland; and as Irish
shipping was excluded from the advantages of the navigation laws, it
followed that the voyage of importation was to be made in British
ships, manned by British seamen, and owned by British merchants, who
were thus authorized to tax the people of Ireland for doing their
work, while a large portion of the Irish people were themselves
unemployed.

While thus prohibiting them from applying themselves to manufactures
or trade, every inducement was held out to them to confine themselves
to the production of commodities required by the English
manufacturers, and wool, hemp, and flax were admitted into England
free of duty. We see thus that the system of that day in reference to
Ireland looked to limiting the people of that country, as it limited
the slaves of Jamaica, and now limits the people of Hindostan, to
agriculture alone, and thus depriving the men, the women, and the
children of all employment except the labour of the field, and of all
opportunity for intellectual improvement, such as elsewhere results
from that association which necessarily accompanies improvement in the
mechanic arts.

During our war of the Revolution, freedom of trade was claimed for
Ireland; and as the demand was made at a time when a large portion of
her people were under arms as volunteers, the merchants and
manufacturers of England, who had so long acted as middlemen for the
people of the sister kingdom, found themselves obliged to submit to
the removal of some of the restrictions under which the latter had so
long remained. Step by step changes were made, until at length, in
1783, Ireland was declared independent, shortly after which duties
were imposed on various articles of foreign manufacture, avowedly with
the intention of enabling her people to employ some of their surplus
labour in converting her own food and wool, and the cotton wool of
other countries, into cloth. Thenceforward manufactures and trade made
considerable progress, and there was certainly a very considerable
tendency toward improvement. Some idea of the condition of the country
at that time, and of the vast and lamentable change that has since
taken place, may be obtained from the consideration of a few facts
connected with the manufacture of books in the closing years of the
last century. The copyright laws not extending to Ireland, all books
published in England might there be reprinted, and accordingly we find
that all the principal English law reports of the day, very many of
the earlier ones, and many of the best treatises, as well as the
principal novels, travels, and miscellaneous works, were republished
in Dublin, as may be seen by an examination of any of our old
libraries. The publication of such books implies, of course, a
considerable demand for them, and for Ireland herself, as the sale of
books in this country was very small indeed, and there was then no
other part of the world to which they could go. More books were
probably published in Ireland in that day by a single house than are
now required for the supply of the whole kingdom. With 1801, however,
there came a change. By the Act of Union the copyright laws of England
were extended to Ireland, and at once the large and growing
manufacture of books was prostrated. The patent laws were also
extended to Ireland; and as England had so long monopolized the
manufacturing machinery then in use, it was clear that it was there
improvements would be made, and that thenceforth the manufactures of
Ireland must retrograde. Manchester had the home market, the foreign
market, and, to no small extent, that of Ireland open to her; while
the manufacturers of the latter were forced to contend for existence,
and under the most disadvantageous circumstances, on their own soil.
The one could afford to purchase expensive machinery, and to adopt
whatever improvements might be made, while the other could not. The
natural consequence was, that Irish manufactures gradually disappeared
as the Act of Union came into effect. By virtue of its provisions, the
duties established by the Irish Parliament for the purpose of
protecting the farmers of Ireland in their efforts to bring the loom
and the anvil into close proximity with the plough and the harrow,
were gradually to diminish, and free trade was to be fully
established; or, in other words, Manchester and Birmingham were to
have a monopoly of supplying Ireland with cloth and iron. The duty on
English woollens was to continue twenty years. The almost prohibitory
duties on English calicoes and muslins were to continue until 1808;
after which they were to be gradually diminished, until in 1821 they
were to cease. Those on cotton yarn were to cease in 1810. The effect
of this in diminishing the demand for Irish labour, is seen in the
following comparative view of manufactures at the date of the Union,
and at different periods in the ensuing forty years, here given:--

  Dublin, 1800,   Master woollen manufacturers. 91...  1840,   12
      "           Hands employee............. 4918...    " ,  602
      "           Master wool-combers........   30...  1834,    5
      "           Hands employed.............  230...    " ,   63
      "           Carpet manufacturers.......   13...  1841,    1
      "           Hands employed.............  720...    "   none

  Kilkenny, 1800, Blanket manufacturers......   56...  1822,   42
      "           Hands employed............. 3000...  1822,  925

  Dublin, 1800,   Silk-loom wearers at work.. 2500...  1840,  250
  Balbriggan, 1799, Calico looms at work..... 2500...  1841,  226
  Wicklow, 1800,  Hand-looms at work......... 1000...  1841, none

  Cork, 1800,     Braid weavers.............. 1000...  1834,   40
      "           Worsted weavers............ 2000...    "     90
      "           Hoosiers...................  300...    "     28
      "           Wool-combers...............  700...    "    110
      "           Cotton weavers............. 2000...    "    220
      "           Linen cheek weavers........  600...    "   none
      "           Cotton spinners, bleachers,
                  calico printers....... thousands...    "   none

"For nearly half a century Ireland has had perfectly free trade with
the richest country in the world; and what," says the author of a
recent work of great ability,--

 "Has that free trade done for her? She has even now," he continues,
 "no employment for her teeming population except upon the land. She
 ought to have had, and might easily have had, other and various
 employments, and plenty of it. Are we to believe," says he, "the
 calumny that the Irish are lazy and won't work? Is Irish human nature
 different from other human nature? Are not the most laborious of all
 labourers in London and New York, Irishmen? Are Irishmen inferior in
 understanding? We Englishmen who have personally known Irishmen, in
 the army, at the bar, and in the church, know that there is no better
 head than a disciplined Irish one. But in all these cases that master
 of industry, the stomach, has been well satisfied. Let an Englishman
 exchange his bread and beer, and beef, and mutton, for no breakfast,
 for a lukewarm lumper at dinner, and no supper. With such a diet, how
 much better is he than an Irishman--a Celt, as he calls him? No, the
 truth is, that the misery of Ireland is not from the human nature
 that grows there--it is from England's perverse legislation, past and
 present."[118]

Deprived of all employment, except in the labour of agriculture, land
became, of course, the great object of pursuit. "Land is life," had
said, most truly and emphatically, Chief Justice Blackburn; and the
people had now before them the choice between the occupation of land,
_at any rent_, or _starvation_. The lord of the land was thus enabled
to dictate his own terms, and therefore it has been that we have heard
of the payment of five, six, eight, and even as much as ten pounds per
acre. "Enormous rents, low wages, farms of an enormous extent, let by
rapacious and indolent proprietors to monopolizing land-jobbers, to be
relet by intermediate oppressors, for five times their value, among
the wretched starvers on potatoes and water," led to a constant
succession of outrages, followed by Insurrection Acts, Arms Acts, and
Coercion Acts, when the real remedy was to be found in the adoption of
a system that would emancipate the country from the tyranny of the
spindle and the loom, and permit the labour of Ireland to find
employment at home.

That employment could not be had. With the suppression of Irish
manufactures the demand for labour had disappeared. An English
traveller, describing the state of Ireland in 1834, thirteen years
after the free-trade provisions of the Act of Union had come fully
into operation, furnishes numerous facts, some of which will now be
given, showing that the people were compelled to remain idle, although
willing to work at the lowest wages--such wages as could not by any
possibility enable them to do more than merely sustain life, and
perhaps not even that.

 CASHEL.--"Wages here only _eightpence a day_, and numbers altogether
 without employment."

 CAHIR.--"I noticed, on Sunday, on coming from church, the streets
 crowded with labourers, with spades and other implements in their
 hands, standing to be hired; and I ascertained that any number of
 these men might have been engaged, on constant employment, at
 _sixpence per day_ without diet."

 WICKLOW.--"The husband of this woman was a labourer, at _sixpence_ a
 day, _eighty_ of which sixpences--that is, eighty days' labour--were
 absorbed in the rent of the cabin." "In another cabin was a decently
 dressed woman with five children, and her husband was also a labourer
 at _sixpence a day_. The pig had been taken for rent a few days
 before." "I found some labourers receiving only _fourpence per day_."

 KILKENNY.--"Upward of 2000 persons totally without employment." "I
 visited the factories that used to support 200 men with their
 families, and how many men did I find at work? ONE MAN! In place of
 finding men occupied, I saw them in scores, like spectres, walking
 about, and lying about the mill. I saw immense piles of goods
 completed, but for which there was no sale. I saw heaps of blankets,
 and I saw every loom idle. As for the carpets which had excited the
 jealousy and the fears of Kidderminster, not one had been made for
 seven months. To convey an idea of the destitution of these people, I
 mention, that when an order recently arrived for the manufacture of
 as many blankets for the police as would have kept the men at work
 for a few days, bonfires were lighted about the country--not bonfires
 to communicate insurrection, but to evince joy that a few starving
 men were about to earn bread to support their families. Nevertheless,
 we are told that Irishmen will not work at home."

 CALLEN.--"In this town, containing between four and five thousand
 inhabitants, at least one thousand are without regular employment,
 six or seven hundred entirely destitute, and there are upward of two
 hundred mendicants in the town--persons incapable of
 work."--_Inglis's Ireland_ in 1834.

Such was the picture everywhere presented to the eye of this
intelligent traveller. Go where he might, he found hundreds anxious
for employment, yet no employment could be had, unless they could
travel to England, there to spend _weeks_ in travelling round the
country in quest of _days_ of employment, the wages for which might
enable them to pay their rent at home. "The Celt," says the _Times_,
"is the hewer of wood and the drawer of water to the Saxon; The great
works of this country," it continues "depend on _cheap labour_." The
labour of the slave is always low in price. The people of Ireland were
interdicted all employment but in the cultivation of the land, and
men, women, and children were forced to waste more labour than would
have paid twenty times over for all the British manufactures they
could purchase. They were passing rapidly toward barbarism, and for
the sole reason that they were denied all power of association for any
useful purpose. What was the impression produced by their appearance
on the mind of foreigners may be seen by the following extract from
the work of a well-known and highly intelligent German traveller:--

 "A Russian peasant, no doubt, is the slave of a harder master, but
 still he is fed and housed to his content, and no trace of mendicancy
 is to be seen in him. The Hungarians are certainly not among the
 best-used people in the world; still, what fine wheaten bread and
 what wine has even the humblest among them for his daily fare! The
 Hungarian would scarcely believe it, if he were to be told there was
 a country in which the inhabitants must content themselves with
 potatoes every alternate day in the year.

 "Servia and Bosnia are reckoned among the most wretched countries of
 Europe, and certainly the appearance of one of their villages has
 little that is attractive about it; but at least the people, if badly
 housed, are well clad. We look not for much luxury or comfort among
 the Tartars of the Crimea; we call them poor and barbarous, but, good
 heavens! they look at least like human creatures. They have a
 national costume, their houses are habitable, their orchards are
 carefully tended, and their gayly harnessed ponies are mostly in good
 condition. An Irishman has nothing national about him but his
 rags,--his habitation is without a plan, his domestic economy without
 rule or law. We have beggars and paupers among us, but they form at
 least an exception; whereas, in Ireland, beggary or abject poverty is
 the prevailing rule. The nation is one of beggars, and they who are
 above beggary seem to form the exception.

 "The African negroes go naked, but then they have a tropical sun to
 warm them. The Irish are little removed from a state of nakedness;
 and their climate, though not cold, is cool, and extremely humid. * *
 *

 "There are nations of slaves, but they have, by long custom, been
 made unconscious of the yoke of slavery. This is not the case with
 the Irish, who have a strong feeling of liberty within them, and are
 fully sensible of the weight of the yoke they have to bear. They are
 intelligent enough to know the injustice done them by the distorted
 laws of their country; and while they are themselves enduring the
 extreme of poverty, they have frequently before them, in the manner
 of life of their English landlords, a spectacle of the most refined
 luxury that human ingenuity ever invented."--_Kohl's Travels in
 Ireland_.

It might be thought, however, that Ireland was deficient in the
capital required for obtaining the machinery of manufacture to enable
her people to maintain competition with her powerful neighbour. We
know, however, that previous to the Union she had that machinery; and
from the date of that arrangement, so fraudulently brought about, by
which was settled conclusively the destruction of Irish manufactures,
the _annual_ waste of labour was greater than the whole amount of
capital then employed in the cotton and woollen manufactures of
England. From that date the people of Ireland were thrown, from year
to year, more into the hands of middlemen, who accumulated fortunes
that they _would_ not invest in the improvement of land, and _could_
not, under the system which prostrated manufactures, invest in
machinery of any kind calculated to render labour productive; and all
their accumulations were sent therefore to England for investment. An
official document published by the British government shows that the
transfers of British securities from England to Ireland, that is to
say, the investment of Irish capital in England, in the thirteen years
following the final adoption of free trade in 1821, amounted to as
many millions of pounds sterling; and thus was Ireland forced to
contribute cheap labour and cheap capital to building up "the great
works of Britain." Further, it was provided by law that whenever the
poor people of a neighbourhood contributed to a saving fund, the
amount should not be applied in any manner calculated to furnish local
employment, but should be transferred for investment in the British
funds. The landlords fled to England, and their rent followed them.
The middlemen sent their capital to England. The trader or the
labourer that could accumulate a little capital saw it sent to
England; and he was then compelled to follow it. Such is the history
of the origin of the present abandonment of Ireland by its
inhabitants.

The form in which rents, profits, and savings, as well as taxes, went
to England, was that of raw products of the soil, to be consumed
abroad, yielding nothing to be returned to the land, which was of
course impoverished. The average export of grain in the first three
years following the passage of the Act of Union was about 300,000
quarters, but as the domestic market gradually disappeared, the export
of raw produce increased, until, at the close of twenty years it
exceeded a million of quarters; and at the date of Mr. Inglis's visit
it had reached an average of two and a half millions, or 22,500,000 of
our bushels. The poor people were, in fact, selling their soil to pay
for cotton and woollen goods that they should have manufactured
themselves, for coal which abounded among themselves, for iron, all
the materials of which existed at home in great profusion, and for a
small quantity of tea, sugar, and other foreign commodities, while the
amount required to pay rent to absentees, and interest to mortgagees,
was estimated at more than thirty millions of dollars. Here was a
drain that no nation could bear, however great its productive power;
and the whole of it was due to the system which forbade the
application of labour, talent, or capital to any thing but
agriculture, and thus forbade advance in civilization. The inducements
to remain at home steadily diminished. Those who could live without
labour found that society had changed; and they fled to England,
France, or Italy. Those who desired to work, and felt that they were
qualified for something beyond mere manual labour, fled to England or
America; and thus by degrees was the unfortunate country depleted of
every thing that could render it a home in which to remain, while
those who could not fly remained to be, as the _Times_ so well
describes it, mere "hewers of wood and drawers of water to the Saxon,"
happy when a full-grown man could find employment at _sixpence a day_,
and that, too, without food.

"Throughout the west and south of Ireland," said an English traveller
in 1842, four years before the exhaustion of the soil had produced
disease among the potatoes--

 "The traveller is haunted by the face of the _popular starvation_. It
 is not the exception--it is _the condition_ of the people. In this
 fairest and richest of countries, men are suffering and _starving by
 millions_. There are thousands of them, at this minute, stretched in
 the sunshine at their cabin doors with _no work_, scarcely any food,
 no hope seemingly. Strong countrymen are lying in bed, '_for the
 hunger_'--because a man lying on his back does not need so much food
 as a person afoot. Many of them have torn up the unripe potatoes from
 their little gardens, and to exist now must look to winter, when they
 shall have to suffer starvation and cold too."--_Thackeray_.

 "Everywhere," said the _Quarterly Review_, "throughout all parts,
 even in the best towns, and in Dublin itself, you will meet men and
 boys--not dressed, not covered--but hung round with a collection of
 rags of unrivalled variety, squalidity, and filth--walking dunghills.
 * * * No one ever saw an English scarecrow with such rags."

The difference in the condition of these poor people and that of the
slave--even the slave of Jamaica at that day--consisted in this, that
the negro slave was worth buying, whereas the others were not; and we
know well that the man who pays a good price for a commodity, attaches
to it a value that induces him to give some care to its preservation;
whereas he cares nothing for another that he finds himself forced to
accept. "Starving by millions," as they are here described, death was
perpetually separating husbands and wives, parents and children, while
to the survivors remained no hope but that of being enabled at some
time or other to fly to another land in which they might be permitted
to sell their labour for food sufficient to support life.

The existence of such a state of things was, said the advocates of the
system which looks to converting all the world outside of England into
one great farm, to be accounted for by the fact that the population
was too numerous for the land, and yet a third of the surface,
including the richest lands in the kingdom, was lying unoccupied and
waste.

 "Of single counties," said an English writer, "Mayo, with a
 population of 389,000, and a rental of only £300,000, has an area of
 1,364,000 acres, of which 800,000 are waste! No less than 470,000
 acres, being very nearly equal to the whole extent of surface now
 under cultivation, are declared to be reclaimable. Galway, with a
 population of 423,000, and a valued rental of £433,000, has upward of
 700,000 acres of waste, 410,000 of which are reclaimable! Kerry, with
 a population of 293,000, has an area of 1,186,000 acres--727,000
 being waste, and 400,000 of them reclaimable! Even the Union of
 Glenties, Lord Monteagle's _ne plus ultra_ of redundant population,
 has an area of 245,000 acres, of which 200,000 are waste, and for the
 most part reclaimable, to its population of 43,000. While the Barony
 of Ennis, that abomination of desolation, has 230,000 acres of land
 to its 5000 paupers--a proportion which, as Mr. Carter, one of the
 principal proprietors, remarks in his circular advertisement for
 tenants, 'is at the rate of only one family to 230 acres; so that if
 but one head of a family were employed to every 230 acres, there need
 not be a single pauper in the entire district; a proof,' he adds,
 'THAT NOTHING BUT EMPLOYMENT IS WANTING TO SET THIS COUNTRY TO
 RIGHTS!' In which opinion we fully coincide."

Nothing but employment _was_ needed, but that could not be found under
the system which has caused the annihilation of the cotton manufacture
of India, notwithstanding the advantage of having the cotton on the
spot, free from all cost for carriage. As in Jamaica, and as in India,
the land had been gradually exhausted by the exportation of its
products in their rudest state, and the country had thus been drained
of capital, a necessary consequence of which was that the labour even
of men found no demand, while women and children starved, that the
women and children of England might spin cotton and weave cloth that
Ireland was too poor to purchase. Bad, however, as was all this, a
worse state of things was at hand. Poverty and wretchedness compelled
the wretched people to fly in thousands and tens of thousands across
the Channel, thus following the capital and the soil that had been
transferred to Birmingham and Manchester; and the streets and cellars
of those towns, and those of London, Liverpool, and Glasgow, were
filled with men, women, and children in a state almost of starvation;
while throughout the country, men were offering to perform the farm
labour for food alone, and a cry had arisen among the people of
England that the labourers were likely to be swamped by these starving
Irishmen: to provide against which it was needed that the landlords of
Ireland should be compelled to support their own poor, and forthwith
an act of Parliament was passed for that purpose. Thence arose, of
course, an increased desire to rid the country of the men, women, and
children whose labour could not be sold, and who could therefore pay
no rent. The "Crowbar Brigade" was therefore called into more active
service, as will be seen by the following account of their labours in
a single one of the "Unions" established under the new poor-law
system, which in many cases took the whole rent of the land for the
maintenance of those who had been reduced to pauperism by the
determination of the people of Manchester and Birmingham to continue
the colonial system under which Ireland had been ruined.

 "In Galway Union, recent accounts declared the number of poor
 evicted, and their homes levelled within the last two years, to equal
 the numbers in Kilrush--4000 families and 20,000 human beings are
 said to have been here also thrown upon the road, houseless and
 homeless. I can readily believe the statement, for to me some parts
 of the country appeared like an enormous graveyard--the numerous
 gables of the unroofed dwellings seemed to be gigantic tombstones.
 They were, indeed, records of decay and death far more melancholy
 than the grave can show. Looking on them, the doubt rose in my mind,
 am I in a civilized country? Have we really a free constitution? Can
 such scenes be paralleled in Siberia or Caffraria?"

A single case described in a paper recently published by Mr. Dickens
in his "_Household Words_," will convey to the reader some idea of an
eviction, that may be taken as a specimen, and perhaps a fair one, of
the _fifty thousand_ evictions that took place in the single year
1849, and of the hundreds of thousands that have taken place in the
last six years.

 "Black piles of peat stood on the solitary ground, ready after a
 summer's cutting and drying. Presently, patches of cultivation
 presented themselves; plots of ground raised on beds, each a few feet
 wide, with intervening trenches to carry off the boggy water, where
 potatoes had grown, and small fields where grew more ragwort than
 grass, enclosed by banks cast up and tipped here and there with a
 brier or a stone. It was the husbandry of misery and indigence. The
 ground had already been freshly manured by sea-weeds, but the
 village, where was it? Blotches of burnt-ground, scorched heaps of
 rubbish, and fragments of blackened walls, alone were visible. Garden
 plots were trodden down and their few bushes rent up, or hung with
 tatters of rags. The two horsemen, as they hurried by, with gloomy
 visages, uttered no more than the single word--EVICTION!"

The scenes that had taken place at the destruction of that village,
are thus described to the author of the sad work, by a poor servant:--

 "Oh, bless your honour! If you had seen that poor frantic woman when
 the back of the cabin fell and buried her infant, where she thought
 she had laid it safe for a moment while she flew to part her husband
 and a soldier who had struck the other children with the flat of his
 sword and bade them troop off. Oh, but your honour it was a killing
 sight! * * * I could not help thinking of the poor people at Rathbeg
 when the soldiers and police cried, 'Down with them! down with them
 even to the ground!'--and then the poor little cabins came down all
 in fire and smoke, amid the howls and cries of the poor creatures.
 Oh, it was a fearful sight, your honour--it was indeed--to see the
 poor women hugging their babies, and the houses where they were born
 burning in the wind. It was dreadful to see the old bed-ridden man
 lie on the ground among the few bits of furniture, and groan to his
 gracious God above! Oh, your honour, you never saw such a sight,
 or--you--sure a--it would never have been done."

This is certainly an awful picture of the slavery resulting from
compelling a whole nation to devote itself to agriculture, and thus
annihilating the power of association--from compelling a whole people
to forego all the advantages resulting from proximity to market for
the sale of their products or the purchase of manure--and from
compelling men, women, and children to be idle, when they would desire
to be employed. In reading it, we are forcibly reminded of the
_razzias_ of the little African kings, who, anxious for a fresh supply
of slaves, collect their troops together and invade the neighbouring
territories, where they enact scenes corresponding exactly with the
one here described. In Africa, however, the slave is fed by those who
have burned and destroyed his house and his farm; but in Ireland, as
labour is valueless, he is turned into the roads or the grave-yards
to die of famine, or of pestilence. And yet, even now, the _Times_
asks the question--

 "How are the people to be fed and employed? That is the question
 which still baffles an age that can transmit a message round the
 world in a moment of time, and point out the locality of a planet
 never yet seen. There is the question which founders both the bold
 and the wise."

Up to this time there had been repeated cases of partial famine, but
now the nation was startled by the news of the almost total failure of
the crop of potatoes, the single description of food upon which the
people of Ireland had been reduced to depend. Constant cropping of the
soil, returning to it none of the manure, because of the necessity for
exporting almost the whole of its products, had produced disease in
the vegetable world--precisely as the want of proper nourishment
produces it in the animal world--and now a cry of famine rang
throughout the land. The poor-houses were everywhere filled, while the
roads, and the streets, and the grave-yards were occupied by the
starving and the naked, the dying and the dead; and the presses of
England were filled with denunciations of English and Irish
landholders, who desired to make food dear, while men, women, and
children were perishing by hundreds of thousands for want of food.
Thus far, Ireland had been protected in the market of England, as some
small compensation for the sacrifice she had made of her manufacturing
interests; but now, small as has been the boon, it was to be
withdrawn, precisely as we see to have been the case with the poor
people of Jamaica. Like them, the Irish had become poor, and their
trade had ceased to be of value, although but seventy years before
they had been England's _best_ customers. The system had exhausted all
the foreign countries with which England had been permitted to
maintain what is denominated free trade--India, Portugal, Turkey, the
West Indies, and Ireland herself--and it had become necessary to make
an effort to obtain markets in the only prosperous countries of the
world, those which had to a greater or less extent placed the consumer
by the side of the producer, to wit--this country, France, Belgium,
Germany, and Russia--and the mode of accomplishing this was that of
offering them the same freedom of trade in food by which Ireland had
been ruined. The farmers were everywhere invited to exhaust their soil
by sending its products to England to be consumed; and the corn-laws
were repealed for the purpose of enabling them to impoverish
themselves by entering into competition with the starving Irishman,
who was thus at once deprived of the market of England, as by the Act
of Union he had been deprived of his own. The cup of wretchedness was
before well nigh full, but it was now filled. The price of food fell,
and the labourer was ruined, for the whole product of his land would
scarcely pay his rent. The landlord was ruined, for he could collect
no rents, and he was at the same time liable for the payment of
enormous taxes for the maintenance of his poor neighbours. His land
was encumbered with mortgages and settlements, created when food was
high, and he could pay no interest; and now a law was passed, by aid
of which property could be summarily disposed of at public sale, and
the proceeds distributed among those who had legal claims upon it. The
landholder of Jamaica, exhausted by the system, had had his property
taken from him at a price fixed by Parliament, and the proceeds
applied to the discharge of debts incurred to his English agents, and
now the same Parliament provided for the transfer of Irish property
with a view to the payment of the same class of debts. The
impoverished landholder now experienced the same fate that had
befallen his poor tenant, and from that date to this, famine and
pestilence, levellings and evictions, have been the order of the day.
Their effect has everywhere been to drive the poor people from the
land, and its consequences are seen in the fact that the population
numbered, in 1850, _one million six hundred and fifty-nine thousand
less than it did in_ 1840; while the starving population of the towns
had largely increased. The county of Cork had diminished 222,000,
while Dublin had grown in numbers 22,000. Galway had lost 125,000,
while the city had gained 7422. Connaught had lost 414,000, while
Limerick and Belfast had gained 30,000. The number of inhabited houses
had fallen from 1,328,000 to 1,047,000, or more than twenty per cent.
Announcing these startling facts, the London _Times_ stated that "_for
a whole generation man had been a drug in Ireland, and population a
nuisance_." The "inexhaustible Irish supply had," as it continued,
"kept down the price of English labour," but this cheapness of labour
had "contributed vastly to the improvement and power" of England, and
largely to "the enjoyment of those who had money to spend." Now,
however, a change appeared to be at hand, and it was to be feared that
the prosperity of England, based as it had been on cheap Irish labour,
might be interfered with, as famine and pestilence, evictions and
emigration, were thinning out the Celts who had so long, as it is
said, been "hewers of wood and drawers of water for the Saxon."
Another of the advocates of the system which has exhausted and ruined
Ireland, and is now transferring its land to the men who have enriched
themselves by acting as middlemen between the producers and consumers
of the world, rejoicing in the great number of those who had fled from
their native soil to escape the horrors of starvation and pestilence,
declares that this is to be regarded as the joyful side of the case.
"What," it asks,

 "Will follow? This great good, among others--that _the stagnant
 weight of unemployed population_ in these insulated realms is never
 likely again to accumulate to the dangerous amount which there was
 sometimes cause to apprehend that, from unforeseen revulsions in
 industry or foreign trade, it might have done. A natural vent is now
 so thoroughly opened, and so certain to grow wider and clearer
 everyday, that the overflow will pass off whenever a moderate degree
 of pressure recurs. Population, skill, and capital, also, will no
 longer wait in consternation till they are half spent with watching
 and fear. The way is ready. They will silently shift their quarters
 when the competition or depression here becomes uncomfortable. Every
 family has already friends or acquaintances who have gone before them
 over sea. Socially, our insulation as a people is proved, by the
 census of 1851, to be at an end."--_Daily News_.

The _Times_, too, rejoices in the prospect that the resources of
Ireland will now probably be developed, as the Saxon takes the place
of the Celt, who has so long hewn the wood and drawn the water for his
Saxon masters. "Prosperity and happiness may," as it thinks,

 "Some day reign over that beautiful island. Its fertile soil, its
 rivers and lakes, its water-power, its minerals, and other materials
 for the wants and luxuries of man, may one day be developed; but all
 appearances are against the belief that this will ever happen in the
 days of the Celt. That tribe will soon fulfil the great law of
 Providence which seems to enjoin and reward the union of races. It
 will mix with the Anglo-American, and be known no more as a jealous
 and separate people. Its present place will be occupied by the more
 mixed, more docile, and more serviceable race, which has long borne
 the yoke of sturdy industry in this island, which can submit to a
 master and obey the law. This is no longer a dream, for it is a fact
 now in progress, and every day more apparent."

Commenting upon the view thus presented, an American journalist most
truly says--

 "There is a cold-blooded atrocity in the spirit of these remarks for
 which examples will be sought in vain, except among the doctors of
 the free-trade school. Naturalists have learned to look with
 philosophical indifference upon the agonies of a rabbit or a mouse
 expiring in an exhausted receiver, but it requires long teaching from
 the economists before men's hearts can be so steeled, that after
 pumping out all the sustenance of vitality from one of the fairest
 islands under the sun, they can discourse calmly upon its
 depopulation as proof of the success of the experiment, can talk with
 bitter irony of 'that _strange_ region of the earth where such a
 people, affectionate and hopeful, genial and witty, industrious and
 independent, was produced and _could not stay_,' and can gloat in the
 anticipation that prosperity and happiness may some day reign over
 that beautiful island, and its boundless resources for the wants and
 luxuries of man be developed, not for the Celt, but 'for a more
 mixed, more docile, and more serviceable race, which can submit to a
 master and obey the law.'"--_Albany Journal_.

The _Times_ rejoices that the place of the Celt is in future to be
occupied by cattle, as sheep already occupy the place of the
Highlander expelled from the land in which, before Britain undertook
to underwork all other nations and thus secure a monopoly for "the
workshop of the world," his fathers were as secure in their rights as
was the landowner himself. Irish journals take a different view of the
prospect. They deprecate the idea of the total expulsion of the native
race, and yet they fear that

 "There is no doubt that in a few years more, if some stop is not put
 to the present outpouring of the people to America, and latterly to
 Australia, there will not be a million of the present race of
 inhabitants to be found within the compass of the four provinces."

 "No thoughts of the land of their birth," it continues, "seems to
 enter their minds, although the Irish people have been proverbial for
 their attachment to their country."--_Connaught Western Star_.

A recent journal informs us that

 "The Galway papers are full of the most deplorable accounts of
 wholesale evictions, or rather exterminations, in that miserable
 country. The tenantry are turned out of the cottages by scores at a
 time. As many as 203 men, women, and children have been driven upon
 the roads and ditches by way of one day's work, and have now no
 resource but to beg their bread in desolate places, or to bury their
 griefs, in many instances for ever, within the walls of the Union
 workhouse. Land agents direct the operation. The work is done by a
 large force of police and soldiery. Under the protection of the
 latter, 'the Crowbar Brigade' advances to the devoted township, takes
 possession of the houses, such as they are, and, with a few turns of
 the crowbar and a few pulls at a rope, bring down the roof, and leave
 nothing but a tottering chimney, if even that. The sun that rose on a
 village sets on a desert; the police return to their barracks, and
 the people are nowhere to be found, or are vainly watching from some
 friendly covert for the chance of crouching once more under their
 ruined homes.

 "What to the Irish heart is more painful than even the large amount
 and stern method of the destruction, is that the authors this time
 are Saxon strangers. It is a wealthy London company that is invading
 the quiet retreats of Connemara, and robbing a primitive peasantry of
 its last hold on the earth; The Law Life Assurance Company having
 advanced, we believe, £240,000 on the Martin estates, has now become
 the purchaser under the Encumbered Estates Acts, and is adopting
 these summary but usual measures to secure the forfeited pledge. That
 gentlemen, many of whom have never set foot in Ireland, and who are
 wealthy enough to lend a quarter of a million of money, should exact
 the last penny from a wretched peasantry who had no hand, or voice in
 the transaction which gave them new masters, seems utterly
 intolerable to the native Irish reason."

With the growth of the value of land, man has always become free. With
the decline in its value, man has always become enslaved. If we desire
to find the cause of the enormous destruction of life in Ireland, even
in this day of boasted civilization--if we desire to find the cause of
the eviction of tenant and landlord, and the decline in the value of
land, we need scarcely look beyond the following paragraph:--

 "The cotton manufacture of Dublin, which employed 14,000 operatives,
 has been destroyed; the 3400 silk-looms of the Liberty have been
 destroyed; the stuff and serge manufacture, which employed 1491
 operatives, have been destroyed; the calico-looms of Balbriggan have
 been destroyed; the flannel manufacture of Rathdrum has been
 destroyed; the blanket manufacture of Kilkenny has been destroyed;
 the camlet trade of Bandon, which produced £100,000 a year, has been
 destroyed; the worsted and stuff manufactures of Waterford have been
 destroyed; the rateen and frieze manufactures of Carrick-on-Suir have
 been destroyed. One business alone survives! One business alone
 thrives and flourishes, and dreads no bankruptcy! That fortunate
 business--which the Union Act has not struck down, but which the
 Union Act has stood by--which the absentee drain has not slackened,
 but has stimulated--which the drainage Acts and navigation laws of
 the Imperial Senate have not deadened but invigorated--that favoured,
 and privileged, and patronized business is the Irish
 coffin-maker's."[119]

To the separation of the consumer from the producer resulting from the
adoption of the system which has for its object the establishment of a
monopoly of the machinery of manufacture for the world, are due the
exhaustion of Ireland, the ruin of its landholders, the starvation of
its people, and the degradation in the eyes of the world of the
country which has furnished to the continent its best soldiers, and to
the empire not only its most industrious and intelligent labourers,
but also its Burke, its Grattan, its Sheridan, and its Wellington. And
yet we find the _Times_ rejoicing at the gradual disappearance of the
native population, and finding in

 "The abstraction of the Celtic race at the rate of a quarter of a
 million a year, a surer remedy for _the inveterate Irish disease_,
 than any human wit could have imagined."

The "inveterate Irish disease" here spoken of is a total absence of
demand for labour, resulting from the unhappy determination of the
people of England to maintain the monopoly of the power to manufacture
for the world. The sure remedy for this is found in famines,
pestilences, and expatriation, the necessary results of the exhaustion
of the land which follows the exportation of its raw products. A
stronger confirmation of the destructive character of such a course of
policy than is contained in the following paragraph could scarcely be
imagined:--

 "When the Celt has crossed the Atlantic, he begins for the first time
 in his life to consume the manufactures of this country, and
 indirectly to contribute to its customs. We may possibly live to see
 the day when the chief product of Ireland will be cattle, and English
 and Scotch the majority of her population. The nine or ten millions
 of Irish, who by that time will have settled in the United States,
 cannot be less friendly to England, and will certainly be much better
 customers to her than they now are."--London _Times_.

When the Celt leaves Ireland he leaves an almost purely agricultural
country, and in such countries man generally approaches nearly to the
condition of a slave. When he comes here he comes to a country in
which to some little extent the plough and the loom have been enabled
to come together; and here he becomes a freeman and a customer of
England.

The nation that commences by exporting raw products must end by
exporting men; and if we desire evidence of this, we need only look to
the following figures, furnished by the last four censuses of
Ireland:--

    1821........ 6,801,827
    1831........ 7,767,401----Increase,   965,574
    1841........ 8,175,124----Increase,   407,723
    1851........ 6,515,794----Decrease, 1,659,330

To what causes may this extraordinary course of events be attributed?
Certainly not to any deficiency of land, for nearly one-third of the
whole surface, including millions of acres of the richest soils of the
kingdom, remains in a state of nature. Not to original inferiority of
the soil in cultivation, for it has been confessedly among the richest
in the empire. Not to a deficiency of mineral ores or fuel, for coal
abounds, and iron ores of the richest kind, as well as those of other
metals, exist in vast profusion. Not to any deficiency in the physical
qualities of the Irishman, for it is an established fact that he is
capable of performing far more labour than the Englishman, the
Frenchman, or the Belgian. Not to a deficiency of intellectual
ability, for Ireland has given to England her most distinguished
soldiers and statesmen; and we have in this country everywhere
evidence that the Irishman is capable of the highest degree of
intellectual improvement. Nevertheless, while possessed of every
advantage that nature could give him, we find the Irishman at home a
slave to the severest taskmasters, and reduced to a condition of
poverty and distress, such as is exhibited in no other portion of the
civilized world. No choice is now left him but between expatriation
and starvation, and therefore it is that we see him everywhere
abandoning the home of his fathers, to seek elsewhere that subsistence
which Ireland, rich as she is in soil and in her minerals, in her
navigable rivers, and in her facilities of communication with the
world, can no longer afford him.

That the process of eviction is still continued on an extensive scale
is shown by the following extracts from Sir Francis Head's work on
Ireland, just issued from the press:--

 "Here almost immediately I first met with that afflicting spectacle,
 or rather spectre, that almost without intermission haunted me
 through the whole remainder of my tour, namely, stout stone-built
 cabins; unroofed for the purpose of evicting therefrom their
 insolvent tenants."--P. 110

 "On conversing with the master, I ascertained from him that Lord
 Lucan's evictions have ceased, but that Lord Erne evicted on Saturday
 last."[120]--P. 115

 "'Is this system of eviction,' said I to the driver, pointing to a
 small cluster of unroofed cabins we were passing at the moment, 'good
 or bad?' 'Well! yere Arn'r!' he replied, 'ut's good and ut's bad.
 Ut's good for them that hould large lands, bad for the small. Ut
 laves nothing for tham but the workhouse.'"--P. 121.

The tendency of the system which looks to the exportation of raw
produce and the exhaustion of the soil is always toward the
consolidation of the land, because the exportation of population,
whether from Ireland, India, or Virginia, always follows in the wake
of the exportation of food and other raw commodities.

 "Among the men were only four that could fairly be called 'able-
 bodied;' each of them told me he had been evicted by Lord Lucan. I
 asked the master what had become of the rest. His answer was very
 instructive. 'Most of them,' said he, 'if they can scrape up
 half-a-crown, go to England, from whence, after some little time,
 they send from 2s. 6d. to 10s. and, as soon as their families get
 _that_, they are off to them.'

 "'Does the father go first?' I thoughtlessly asked.

 "'Oh, no! we keep _him_ to the last. One daughter went off to England
 from here a short time ago, and sent 7s. 6d. _That_ took out the
 mother and another sister. In a few weeks the mother and sister sent
 enough to get over the remaining two sons and the father. Total of
 the family, 6.'"--P. 127.

In the above passage we have the equivalent of the exportation of the
negro from the Northern Slave States. Husbands and wives, parents and
children, are forced to fly from each other, never to meet again
unless those who emigrate can save means to send for those who are
left behind.

 "We were now joined by the head-steward--a sedate, highly
 intelligent, respectable-looking Scotchman, who has been in Ireland
 thirteen years. He told me that the number of persons that had been
 ejected was about 10,000, of whom one-tenth were employed by Lord
 Lucan, who had given most of them cottages."

 "We passed a cabin, and, closing my umbrella and leaving it on the
 car, I walked in.

 "'Will yere Arn'r take a sate?' said a woman about thirty-eight, with
 a fine, open countenance, her eyes being listlessly fixed on the
 daylight.

 "I sat down. On her lap was an infant. Three bare-footed children, as
 if hatching eggs, sat motionless on the edge of a peat fire, which
 appeared to be almost touching their naked toes; above the embers was
 demurely hanging a black pot. Opposite sat, like a bit of gnarled
 oak, the withered grandmother. The furniture was composed of a
 dingy-coloured wooden wardrobe, with a few plates on the top, and one
 bed close to the fire. There was no chimney but the door, on the
 threshold of which stood, looking exceedingly unhappy, four dripping
 wet fowls; at the far end of the chamber was a regular dungheap, on
 which stood an ass.

 "'Where is your husband, my good woman?' I said to the youngest of
 the women.

 "'In England, yere Arn'r,' she replied, 'saking work.'"--P. 132.

"Seeking work!" and yet Ireland abounds, in the richest land
uncultivated, and mineral wealth untouched, because the system forbids
that men should combine their efforts together for the improvement of
their common condition.

 "After trotting on for about a mile, and after I had left Lord
 Lucan's property, I came as usual to a small village of unroofed
 cabins, from the stark walls of which, to my astonishment, I saw here
 and there proceeding a little smoke; and, on approaching it, I beheld
 a picture I shall not readily forget. The tenants had been all
 evicted, and yet, dreadful to say, they were there still! the
 children nestling, and the poor women huddling together, under a
 temporary lean-to of straw, which they had managed to stick into the
 interstices of the walls of their ancient homes.

 "'This is a quare place, yere Arn'r!' said a fine, honest-looking
 woman, kindly smiling to me, adding, 'Sit down, yere Arn'r!'

 "One of her four children got up and offered me his stool.

 "Under another temporary shed I found a tall woman heavy with child,
 a daughter ahout sixteen, and four younger children--_her_ husband
 was also in England, 'sakin work.' I entered two or three more of
 these wretched habitations, around which were the innumerable tiny
 fields; surrounded by those low tottering stone walls I have already
 described.* * *--P. 136.

 "They were really good people, and from what I read in their
 countenances, I feel confident, that if, instead of distributing
 among them a few shillings, I had asked them to feed _me_, with the
 kindest hospitality they would readily have done so, and that with my
 gold in my pocket I might have slept among them in the most perfect
 security.

 "The devotional expressions of the lower class of Irish, and the
 meekness and resignation with which they bear misfortune or
 affliction, struck, me very forcibly. 'I haven't aten a bit this
 blessed day, glory be to God!' said one woman, 'Troth, I've been
 suffering lhong time from poverty and sickness, glory be to God!'
 said another. On entering a strange cabin, the common salutation is,
 'God save all here!' On passing a gang of comrades at labour, a man
 often says, 'God bless the work, boys!'"--P. 137.

The extirpation of the people results necessarily in the decay of the
towns, as is here shown:--

 "When my bill came,--for one's bill at an inn, like death, is sure to
 come,--I asked the waiter what effect the evictions in the
 neighbourhood had had on the town.

 "'They have ruined it,' he replied; 'the poor used to support the
 rich; now that the poor are gone the rich shopkeepers are all
 failing. Our town is full of empty shops, and, after all, the
 landlord himself is now being ruined!'"--P. 147.

Cheap labour and cheap land are always companions. In Jamaica and
India, land, as we have seen, is almost valueless. How it is in
Ireland may be seen by the following passage:--

 "Adjoining is a similar property of about 10,000 acres, purchased, I
 was informed, by Captain Houston, a short time ago, at the rate of
 2-1/2d. an acre."--P. 153.

In a paper recently read before the statistical section of the British
Association, it is shown that the estates recently purchased in
Ireland by English capital embraced 403,065 acres, and that the
purchase money had been £1,095,000, or about £2 15s. ($13.20) per
acre, being little more than is paid for farms with very moderate
improvements in the new States of the Mississippi Valley.

Why land is cheap and labour badly rewarded may easily be seen on a
perusal of the following passages:--

 "'Chickuns are about 5d. a couple, dooks 10d. A couple of young gaise
 10d; when auld, not less than 1s. or 14d.'

 "'And turkeys?' I asked.

 "'I can't say; we haven't many of thim in the counthry, and I don't
 want to tell yere Arn'r a lie. Fish, little or nothing. A large
 turbot, of 30 lbs. weight, for 3s. Lobsters, a dozen for 4d. Soles,
 2d. or 3d. a piece. T'other day I bought a turbot, of 15 lbs. weight,
 for a gentleman, and I paid 18d. for ut.'"--P. 178.

 "'What do you pay for your tea and sugar here?' I inquired.

 "'Very dare, sir,' he replied. 'We pay 5s. for tea, 5d. for brown
 sugar, and 8d. for white; that is, if we buy a single
 pound.'"--P.187.

The sugar of the labourer of Jamaica exchanges in Manchester for three
shillings, of which he receives perhaps one, and he perishes because
of the difficulty of obtaining machinery, or clothing. The Hindoo
sells his cotton for a penny a pound, and buys it back in the form of
cloth at eighteen or twenty pence. The Virginia negro raises tobacco
which exchanges for six shillings' worth of commodities, of which he
and his owner obtain three pence. The poor Irishman raises chickens
which sell in London for shillings, of which he receives pence, and
thus a pound of sugar which had yielded the free negro of Jamaica two
pence, exchanges in the West of Ireland for a pair of chickens or a
dozen lobsters. The reader who may study these facts will readily
understand the destructive effects on the value of land and labour
resulting from the absence of markets, such as arise naturally where
the plough and the loom are permitted, in accordance with the
doctrines of Adam Smith, to take their places by the side of each
other. More than seventy years since he denounced the system which
looked to compelling the exports of raw produce as one productive of
infinite injustice, and certainly the histories of Jamaica and
Virginia, Ireland and India, since his time, would afford him, were he
now present, little reason for a change of opinion.

It is common to ascribe the state of things now existing in Ireland to
the rapid growth of population; and that in its turn is charged to the
account of the potato, the excessive use of which, as Mr. McCulloch
informs his readers, has lowered the standard of living and tended to
the multiplication of men, women, and children. "The peasantry of
Ireland live," as he says, "in miserable mud cabins, without either a
window or a chimney, or any thing that can be called furniture," and
are distinguished from their fellow labourers across the Channel by
their "filth and misery," and hence it is, in his opinion, that they
work for low wages. We have here effect substituted for cause. The
absence of demand for labour causes wages to be low, and those wages
will procure nothing but mud cabins and potatoes. It is admitted
everywhere throughout the continent of Europe that the introduction of
the potato has tended greatly to the improvement of the condition of
the people; but then, there is no portion of the continent in which it
is used, where it constitutes an essential part of the governmental
policy to deprive millions of people of all mode of employment except
agriculture, and thus placing those millions at such a distance from
market that the chief part of their labour and its products is lost in
the effort to reach that market, and their land is exhausted because
of the impossibility of returning to the soil any portion of the crop
yielded by it. Commercial centralization produces all these effects.
It looks to the destruction of the value of labour and land, and to
the enslavement of man. It tends to the division of the whole
population into two classes, separated by an impassable gulf--the mere
labourer and the land-owner. It tends to the destruction of the power
of association for any purpose of improvement, whether by the making
of roads or by the founding of schools, and of course to the
prevention of the growth of towns, as we see to have been the case
with Jamaica, so barbarous in this respect when compared with
Martinique or Cuba, islands whose governments have not looked to the
perpetual divorce of the hammer and the harrow. The decay of towns in
Ireland, subsequent to the Union, led to absenteeism, and thus added
to the exhaustion of the land, because Irish wheat was now needed to
pay not only for English cloth but for English services; and the more
the centralization resulting from absenteeism, the greater necessarily
was the difficulty of maintaining the productive powers of the soil.
Mr. McCulloch, however, assures his readers that "it is not easy to
imagine any grounds for pronouncing the expenditure of the rent at
home "more beneficial" to the country than if it had been expended
abroad. (_Principles_, 157.) Another distinguished political economist
says--

 "Many persons, also, perplexed by the consideration that all the
 commodities which are exported as remittances of the absentee's
 income are exports for which no return is obtained; that they are as
 much lost to this country as if they were a tribute paid to a foreign
 state, or even as if they were periodically thrown into the sea. This
 is unquestionably true; but it must be recollected that whatever is
 unproductively consumed, is, by the very terms of the proposition,
 destroyed, without producing any return"--_Senior's Political
 Economy_, 160.

This view is, as the reader will see, based upon the idea of the total
destruction of the commodities consumed. Were it even correct, it
would still follow that there had been transferred from Ireland to
England a demand for services of a thousand kinds, tending to cause a
rise in the price of labour in the one and a fall in the other;--but
if it were altogether incorrect, it would then follow, necessarily,
that the loss to the country _would_ be as great as if the remittances
were "a tribute paid to a foreign state, or even as if they were
periodically thrown into the sea." That it is altogether incorrect the
reader may readily satisfy himself. Man consumes much, but he destroys
nothing. In eating food he is merely acting as a machine for preparing
the elements of which it is composed for future production; and the
more he can take out of the land the more he can return to it, and the
more rapid will be the improvement in the productive power of the
soil. If the market be at hand, he can take hundreds of bushels of
turnips, carrots, or potatoes, or tons of hay, from an acre of land,
and he can vary the character of his culture from year to year, and
the more he borrows from the great bank the more he can repay to it,
the more he can improve his mind and his cultivation, and the more
readily he can exchange for improved machinery by aid of which to
obtain still increased returns. If, however, the market be distant, he
must raise only those things that will bear carriage, and which from
their small yield command a high price, and thus is he limited in his
cultivation, and the more he is limited the more rapidly he exhausts
his land, the less is his power to obtain roads, to have association
with his fellow-men, to obtain books, to improve his mode of thought,
to make roads, or to purchase machinery. Such is the case even when he
is compelled to sell and buy in distant markets, but still worse is it
when, as in the case of the rent of the absentee, nothing is returned
to the land, for then production diminishes without a corresponding
diminution of the rent, and the poor cultivator is more and more
thrown upon the mercy of the land-owner or his agent, and becomes, as
we see to have been the case in Jamaica and India, practically a
slave. This state of things has in all countries been followed by a
diminution of population resulting from starvation or from
exportation; and hence it is that we see the destruction of life in
Ireland, India, and the West Indies, while from the two former vast
numbers are annually exported, many of them to perish in the new
countries to which they are driven. Out of 99,000 that left Ireland
for Canada in a single year, no less than 13,000 perished on
shipboard, and thousands died afterward of disease, starvation, and
neglect; and thus it is that we have the horrors of "the middle
passage" repeated in our day. It is the slave trade of the last
century reproduced on a grander scale and on a new theatre of action.

We are told of the principle of population that men increase faster
than food, and, for evidence that such must always be the case, are
pointed to the fact that when men are few in number they always
cultivate the rich soils, and then food is abundant, but as population
increases they are forced to resort to the poor soils, and then food
becomes scarce. That the contrary of all this is the fact is shown by
the history of England, France, Italy, Greece, India, and every other
nation of the world, and is proved in our own day by all that is at
this moment being done in this country. It is proved by the fact that
Ireland possesses millions of acres of the most fertile soil remaining
in a state of nature, and so likely to remain until she shall have
markets for their produce that will enable their owners readily to
exchange turnips, potatoes, cabbages, and hay, for cloth, machinery,
and MANURE.

It is singular that all the political economists of England should so
entirely have overlooked the fact that man is a mere borrower from the
earth, and that when he does not pay his debts, she does as do all
other creditors, that is, she expels him from his holding. England
makes of her soil a grand reservoir for the waste yielded by all the
sugar, coffee, wool, indigo, cotton and other raw commodities of
almost half the world, and thus does she raise a crop that has been
valued at five hundred millions of dollars, or five times more than
the average value of the cotton crop produced by so many millions of
people in this country; and yet so important is manure that she
imports in a single year more than two hundred thousand tons of guano,
at a cost of almost two millions of pounds, and thus does she make
labour productive and land valuable. Nevertheless, her writers teach
other nations that the true mode of becoming rich is to exhaust the
land by sending from it all its products in their rudest state, and
then, when the people of Ireland attempt to follow the soil which they
have sent to England, the people of the latter are told by Mr.
McCulloch that

 "The unexampled misery of the Irish people is directly owing to the
 excessive augmentation of their numbers; and, nothing can be more
 perfectly futile than to expect any real or lasting amendment of
 their situation until an effectual check has been given to the
 progress of population. It is obvious too," he continues, "that the
 low and degraded condition into which the people of Ireland are now
 sunk is the condition to which every people must be reduced whose
 numbers continue, for any considerable period, to increase faster
 than the means of providing for their comfortable and decent
 subsistence."--_Principles_, 383.

The population of Ireland did increase with some rapidity, and the
reason for this was to be found in the fact that poverty had not yet
produced that demoralization which restricts the growth of numbers.
The extraordinary morality of the women of Ireland is admitted
everywhere. In England it is remarked upon by poor-law commissioners,
and here it is a fact that cannot fail to command the attention of the
most superficial observer. How it is at home we are told by Sir
Francis Head, whose statements on this subject cannot be read without
interest:--

 "As regards the women of Ireland, their native modesty cannot fail to
 attract the observation of any stranger. Their dress was invariably
 decent, generally pleasing, and often strikingly picturesque. Almost
 all wore woollen petticoats, dyed by themselves, of a rich madder
 colour, between crimson and scarlet. Upon their shoulders, and
 occasionally from their heads, hung, in a variety of beautiful folds,
 sometimes a plaid of red and green, sometimes a cloak, usually dark
 blue or dingy white. Their garments, however, like those of the men,
 were occasionally to be seen in tatters."--P. 119.

Anxious to be fully informed on the subject, the traveller took
occasion to interrogate various police-officers and gentlemen, and the
result of his inquiries will be seen on a perusal of the following
questions and answers:--

 Q. "How long have you been on duty in Galway?"

 A. "Above nine years."

 Q. "Have you much crime here?"

 A. "Very little; it principally consists of petty larcenies."

 Q. "Have there been here many illegitimate children?"

 A. "Scarcely any. During the whole of the eight years I have been on
 duty here I have not known of an illegitimate child being reared up
 in any family in the town."

 Q. "What do you mean by being reared up?"

 A. "I mean that, being acquainted with every family in Galway, I have
 never known of a child of that description being born."--P. 208.

 Q. "How long have you been on duty here?"

 A. "Only six months."

 Q. "During that time have you known of any instance of an
 illegitimate child being born in the village of the Claddagh?"

 A. "Not only have I never known of such a case, but I have never
 heard any person attribute such a case to the fisherwomen of
 Claddagh. I was on duty in the three islands of Arran, inhabited
 almost exclusively by fishermen, who also farm potatoes, and I never
 heard of one of their women--who are remarkable for their
 beauty--having had an illegitimate child, nor did I ever hear it
 attributed to them; indeed, I have been informed by Mr. -----, a
 magistrate who has lived in Galway for eight years, and has been on
 temporary duty in the island of Arran, that he also had never heard
 there of a case of that nature."--P. 209.

 A. "I have been here better than two years, and during that time I
 have never known of any woman of Claddagh having had an illegitimate
 child--indeed, I have never even heard of it."

 Q. "Have you ever known of any such case in Galway?"

 A. "Oh, I think there have been some cases in _town_. Of my own
 knowledge I cannot say so, but I have _heard_ of it."--_Ibid_.

 Q. "How long have you been in charge of the Claddagh village?"

 A. "I have been nine years here, for five years of which last March I
 have been in charge of Claddagh."

 Q. "During that time has there been an illegitimate child born
 there?"

 A. "No, I have never heard of it, and if it had happened I should
 have been sure to have heard of it, as they wouldn't have allowed her
 to stop in the village."--P. 210.

The reader will now be pleased to recollect that the production of
food, flax, cotton, and other raw commodities requires hard labour and
exposure, and it is for such labour men are fitted--that the
conversion of food, flax, and cotton into cloth requires little
exertion and is unattended with exposure, and is therefore especially
fitted for the weaker sex--and that when the work of conversion is
monopolized by people who live at a distance from the place of
production, the woman and the child must be driven to the labour of
the field; and therefore it is that we see the women and the children
of Jamaica and Carolina, of Portugal and Turkey, of India and of
Ireland, compelled to remain idle or to cultivate the land, because of
the existence of a system which denies to all places in the world but
one the power to bring the consumer to the side of the producer. It
was time for woman to take up the cause of her sex, and it may be
hoped that she will prosecute the inquiry into the causes of the
demoralization and degradation of the women of so large a portion of
the world, until she shall succeed in extirpating the system so long
since denounced by the greatest of all economists, as "a manifest
violation of the most sacred rights of man [and woman] kind."

       *       *       *       *       *

SCOTLAND.

Centralization tends everywhere to the exhaustion of the land, and to
its consolidation in fewer hands, and with every step in this
direction man becomes less and less free to determine for whom he will
work and what shall be his reward. That such has been the tendency in
Jamaica, India, and Ireland, has been shown, and it is now proposed to
show that the same tendency exists in Scotland, the Northern part of
which has become exclusively agricultural as even its home
manufactures have passed away, and must look to a distance for a
market for all its products, involving, of course, a necessity for
exhausting the land.

The Highland tacksman, originally co-proprietor of the land of the
clan, became at first vassal, then hereditary tenant, then tenant at
will, and thus the property in land passed from the many into the
hands of the few, who have not hesitated to avail themselves of the
power so obtained. The payment of money rents was claimed by them
eighty years since, but the amount was very small, as is shown by the
following passage from a work of that date:--

 "The rent of these lands is very trifling compared to their extent,
 but compared to the number of mouths which a farm maintains, it will
 perhaps be found that a plot of land in the highlands of Scotland
 feeds ten times more people than a farm of the same extent in the
 richest provinces."--_Stewart's Political Economy_, vol. i. chap.
 xvi.

Of some of the proceedings of the present century the following sketch
is furnished by a recent English writer:--

 "Even in the beginning of the 19th century the rental imposts were
 very small, as is shown by the work of Mr. Lock, (1820,) the steward
 of the Countess of Sutherland, who directed the improvements on her
 estates. He gives for instance the rental of the Kintradawell estate
 for 1811, from which it appears that up to then, every family was
 obliged to pay a yearly impost of a few shillings in money, a few
 fowls, and some days' work, at the highest.

 "It was only after 1811 that the ultimate and real usurpation was
 enacted, the forcible, transformation of _clan-property_ into the
 _private property_, in the modern sense, _of the chief_. The person
 who stood at the head of this economical revolution, was the Countess
 of Sutherland and Marchioness of Stafford.

 "Let us first state that the ancestors of the marchioness were the
 'great men' of the most northern part of Scotland, of very near
 three-quarters of Sutherlandshire. This county is more extensive than
 many French departments or small German principalities. When the
 Countess of Sutherland inherited these estates, which she afterward
 brought to her husband, the Marquis of Stafford, afterward Duke of
 Sutherland, the population of them was already reduced to 15,000. The
 countess resolved upon a radical economical reform, and determined
 upon transforming the whole tract of country into sheep-walks. From
 1814 to 1820, these 15,000 inhabitants, about 3000 families, were
 systematically expelled and exterminated. All their villages were
 demolished and burned down, and all their fields converted into
 pasturage. British soldiers were commanded for this execution, and
 came to blows with the natives. An old woman refusing to quit her
 hut, was burned in the flames of it. Thus the countess appropriated
 to herself _seven hundred and ninety-four thousand acres of land_,
 which from time immemorial had belonged to the clan. She allotted to
 the expelled natives about six thousand acres--two acres per family.
 These six thousand acres had been lying waste until then, and brought
 no revenue to the proprietors. The countess was generous enough to
 sell the acre at 2s. 6d. on an average, to the clan-men who for
 centuries past had shed their blood for her family. The whole of the
 unrightfully appropriated clan-land she divided into twenty-nine
 large sheep-farms, each of them inhabited by one single family,
 mostly English farm-labourers; and in 1821 the 15,000 Gaels had
 already been superseded by 131,000 sheep.

 "A portion of the aborigines had been thrown upon the sea-shore, and
 attempted to live by fishing. They became amphibious, and, as an
 English author says, lived half on land and half on water, and after
 all did not half live upon both."

Throughout the North of Scotland the tenants of the small grazing
farms into which the Highland counties had been divided, have been
ousted for the purpose of creating sheep-walks, and to such an extent
has this been carried, that where once, and at no distant period, were
numerous black-cattle farms, not an inhabitant is now to be seen for
many miles.[121] The work, too, is still going on. "The example of
Sutherland," says Mr. Thornton,[122] "is imitated in the neighbouring
counties."

The misery of these poor people is thus described:--

 "Hinds engaged by the year are seldom paid more than two-thirds of
 what they would receive in the South, and few of them are fortunate
 enough to obtain regular employment. Farm-servants, however, form
 only a small proportion of the peasantry, a much greater number being
 crofters, or tenants of small pieces of ground, from which they
 derive almost their whole subsistence. Most of them live very
 miserably. The soil is so poor, and rents in some instances so
 exorbitant, that occupiers of four or five acres can do little more
 than maintain themselves, yet it is their aid alone that saves their
 still poorer brethren from starvation. This is true even of
 Sutherland, which is commonly represented as a highly improved
 county, and in which a signal change for the better is said to have
 taken place in the character and habits of the people.[123] Recent
 inquiry has discovered that even there, in districts once famous for
 fine men and gallant soldiers, the inhabitants have degenerated into
 a meagre and stunted race. In the healthiest situations, on hillsides
 fronting the sea, the faces of their famished children are as thin
 and pale as they could be in the foul atmosphere of a London
 alley.[124] Still more deplorable are the scenes exhibited in the
 Western Highlands, especially on the coasts and in the adjoining
 islands. A large population has there been assembled, so ill provided
 with any means of support, that during part of almost every year from
 45,000 to 80,000 [125] of them are in a state of destitution, and
 entirely dependent upon charity. Many of the heads of families hold
 crofts from four to seven acres in extent, but these, notwithstanding
 their small size, and the extreme barrenness of the soil, have often
 two, three, and sometimes even four families upon them. One estate in
 the Hebrides, the nominal rent of which is only £5200 a year, is
 divided into 1108 crofts, and is supposed to have more than 8300
 persons living upon it. In another instance a rental of £1814 is
 payable (for little is really paid) by 365 crofters, and the whole
 population of the estate is estimated at more than 2300. In Cromarty,
 1500 persons are settled upon an estate let nominally for £750, but
 "paying not more than half that sum."--_Thornton_, 74.

 "Of course, they live most wretchedly. Potatoes are the usual food,
 for oatmeal is considered a luxury, to be reserved for high days and
 holidays, but even potatoes are not raised in sufficient abundance.
 The year's stock is generally exhausted before the succeeding crop is
 ripe, and the poor are then often in a most desperate condition, for
 the poor-law is a dead letter in the North of Scotland, and the want
 of a legal provision for the necessitous is but ill supplied by the
 spontaneous contributions of the land-owners."--_Ibid_. 76.

At the moment of writing this, the journals of the day furnish
information that famine prevails in the Hebrides, and that "in the
Isle of Skye alone there are 10,000 able-bodied persons at this time
without work, without food, and without credit."

The condition of these poor people would certainly be much improved
could they find some indulgent master who would purchase them at such
prices as would make it to his interest to feed, clothe, and lodge
them well in return for their labour.

In the days of Adam Smith about one-fifth of the surface of Scotland
was supposed to be entailed, and he saw the disadvantages of the
system to be so great that he denounced the system as being "founded
upon the most absurd of all suppositions--the supposition that every
successive generation of men have not an equal right to the earth and
all that it possesses; but that the property of the present generation
should be retained and regulated according to the fancy of those who
died perhaps five hundred years ago." Instead of changing the system,
and doing that which might tend to the establishment of greater
freedom of trade in land, the movement has been in a contrary
direction, and to such an extent that one-half of Scotland is now
supposed to be entailed; and yet, singularly enough, this is the
system advocated by Mr. McCulloch, a follower in the foot-steps of
Adam Smith, as being the one calculated "to render all classes more
industrious, and to augment at the same time the mass of wealth and
the scale of enjoyment."

The effects of the system are seen in the enormous rents contracted to
be paid for the use of small pieces of land at a distance from market,
the failure in the payment of which makes the poor cultivator a mere
slave to the proprietor. How the latter use their power, may be seen
by the following extract from a Canadian journal of 1851:--

 "A Colonel -----, the owner of estates in South Uist and Barra, in
 the highlands of Scotland, has sent off over 1100 destitute tenants
 and cotters under the most cruel and delusive temptations; assuring
 them that they would be taken care of immediately on their arrival at
 Quebec by the emigrant agent, receive a free passage to Upper Canada,
 where they would be provided with work by the government agents, and
 receive grants of land on certain imaginary conditions. Seventy-one
 of the last cargo of four hundred and fifty have signed a statement
 that some of them fled to the mountains when an attempt was made to
 force them to emigrate. 'Whereupon,' they add, 'Mr. Fleming gave
 orders to a policeman, who was accompanied by the ground officer of
 the estate in Barra, and some constables, to pursue the people who
 had run away among the mountains, which they did, and succeeded in
 capturing about twenty from the mountains and from other islands in
 the neighbourhood; but only came with the officers on an attempt
 being made to handcuff them, and that some who ran away were not
 brought back; in consequence of which four families, at least, have
 been divided, some having come in the ships to Quebec, while other
 members of the same families are left in the highlands.'"

 "On board the Conrad and the Birman were 518 persons from Mull and
 Tyree, sent out by his grace the Duke of -----, who provided them
 with a free passage to Montreal, where on arrival they presented the
 same appearance of destitution as those from South Uist, sent out by
 Colonel -----, that is, 'entirely destitute of money and
 provisions.'"

Numbers of these people perished, as we are told, of disease and want
of food in the winter which followed their arrival in Canada; and that
such would have been the case might naturally have been anticipated by
those who exported them.

The wretched cotters who are being everywhere expelled from the land
are forced to take refuge in cities and towns, precisely as we see now
to be the case in Ireland. "In Glasgow," says Mr. Thornton--

 "There are nearly 30,000 poor Highlanders, most of them living in a
 state of misery, which shows how dreadful must have been the
 privations to which such misery is preferred. Such of them as are
 able-bodied obtain employment without much difficulty, and may not
 perhaps have much reason to complain of deficiency of the first
 requisites of life; but the quarter they inhabit is described as
 enclosing a larger amount of filth, crime, misery, and disease, than
 could have been supposed to exist in one spot in any civilized
 country. It consists of long lanes called 'wynds,' so narrow that a
 cart could scarcely pass through them, opening upon 'closes,' or
 courts, about 15 or 20 feet square, round which the houses, mostly
 three stories high, are built, and in the centre of which is a
 dunghill. The houses are occupied indiscriminately by labourers of
 the lowest class, thieves, and prostitutes, and every apartment is
 filled with a promiscuous crowd of men and women, all in the most
 revolting state of filth. Amid such scenes and such companions as
 these, thousands of the most intelligent of the Highlanders are
 content to take refuge, for it is precisely those who are best
 educated and best informed that are most impatient of the penury they
 have to endure at home.

 "The inhabitants of the Glasgow wynds and closes may be likened to
 those of the Liverpool cellars, or to those of the worst parts of
 Leeds, St. Giles's, and Bethnal Green, in London; and every other
 class of the Scottish urban labouring population may likewise be
 delineated with the same touches (more darkened, however,) which have
 been used in describing the corresponding class in English towns.
 Manufacturing operatives are in pretty much the same position in both
 countries. Those of Scotland shared even more largely than their
 Southern brethren in the distress of 1840-2, when Paisley in
 particular exhibited scenes of wo far surpassing any thing that has
 been related of Bolton or Stockport."--P. 77.

The extent to which these poor people have been driven from the land
may be judged by the following statement of population and
house-accommodation:--

                                               Persons to
               Population.  Inhabited houses.   a house.
               -----------  -----------------  ----------
    1841......  2,628,957......  503,357......  5.22
    1851......  2,870,784......  366,650......  7.83

Intemperance and immorality keep pace with the decline in the power of
men over their own actions, as is shown in the following statement of
the consumption of British spirits, under circumstances almost
precisely similar as regards the amount of duty:--

                       Duty.          Gallons.
                       -----          --------
    1802.............. 3.10-1/2.....  1,158,558
    1831.............. 3.4  ........  5,700,689
    1841.............. 3.8  ........  5,989,905
    1851.............. 3.8  ........  6,830,710

In 1801 the population was 1,599,068, and since that time it has
increased eighty per cent., whereas the consumption of spirits has
grown almost six hundred per cent.!

The poor people who are expelled from the land cannot be sold. The
hammer of the auctioneer cannot be allowed to separate parents from
children, or husbands from wives, but poverty, drunkenness, and
prostitution produce a similar effect, and in a form even more
deplorable. In the five years preceding 1840, every fifth person in
Glasgow had been attacked by fever, and the deaths therefrom amounted
to almost five thousand.

It is impossible to study the condition of this portion of the United
Kingdom without arriving at the conclusion that society is rapidly
being divided into the very rich and the very poor, and that the
latter are steadily declining in their power of self-government, and
becoming more and more slaves to the former. Centralization tends
here, as everywhere, to absenteeism, and "absenteeism," says Dr.
Forbes of Glasgow [126] --

 "Is in its results everywhere the same. All the transactions and
 communications between the richer and the poorer classes, have thus
 substituted for them the sternness of official agency, in the room of
 that kind and generous treatment which, let them meet unrestrained,
 the more prosperous children of the same parent would in almost every
 case pay to their less fortunate brothers. * * * Where the power of
 sympathy has been altogether or nearly abolished among the different
 ranks of society, one of the first effects appears in a yawning and
 ever-widening gulf of poverty which gathers round its foundations. As
 the lofty shore indicates the depth of the surrounding ocean, the
 proud pinnacles of wealth in society are the indices of a
 corresponding depression among the humbler ranks. The greatest misery
 of man is ever the adjunct of his proudest splendour."

Such are the results everywhere of that system which looks to
converting England into a great workshop and confining the people of
all other nations to the labours of the field. In Jamaica, it
annihilated three-fifths of all the negroes imported, and it is now
rapidly driving the remainder into barbarism and ultimately to
annihilation. In the Southern States, it causes the export of men,
women, and children, and the breaking up of families. In India, it has
caused famines and pestilences, and is now establishing the slave
trade in a new form. In Ireland, it has in half a century carried the
people back to a condition worthy only of the darkest part of the
Middle Ages, and is now extirpating them from the land of their
fathers. In Scotland, it is rapidly dividing the population into two
parts--the master on one hand, and the slave on the other. How it has
operated, and is now operating, in England itself, we may how examine.




CHAPTER XIV.

HOW SLAVERY GROWS IN ENGLAND.


The Roman people sought to centralize within their walls the power of
governing and taxing all the nations of the earth, and to a great
extent they succeeded; but in the effort to acquire power over others
they lost all power over themselves. As the city grew in size and as
its great men became greater, the proportions of the people everywhere
became less. The freemen of the Campagna had almost disappeared even
in the days of the elder Scipio, and their humble habitations had
given way to palaces, the centre of great estates, cultivated by
slaves. Step by step with the increase of power abroad came increased
consolidation of the land at home, and, as the people were more and
more driven from the soil the city grew in numbers and magnificence,
and in the poverty and rapacity of its inhabitants. The populace
needed to be fed, and that they might be so there was established a
great system of poor-laws, carried into effect by aid of the taxation
of distant provinces, at whose expense they were both fed and
entertained. They demanded cheap food, and they obtained their desires
at the cost of the cultivators, abroad and at home, who became more
and more enslaved as Rome itself was more cheaply supplied. Desires
grew with their indulgence, and the greater the facility for living
without labour, the greater became the necessity for seeking "new
markets" in which to exercise their powers of appropriation, and the
more extensive became the domain of slavery. Bankers and middlemen
grew more and more in power, and while the wealth of Crassus enabled
him to obtain the control of the East, enormous loans gave to Cæsar
the command of the West, leaving to Pompey and his moneyed friends the
power to tax the centre and the South. Next, Augustus finds the city
of brick and leaves it of marble; and Herodes Atticus appears upon the
stage sole improver, and almost sole owner, in Attica, once so free,
while bankers and nobles accumulate enormous possessions in Africa,
Gaul, and Britain, and the greater the extent of absentee ownership
the greater becomes the wretchedness and the crime of the pauper mob
of Rome. Still onward the city grows, absorbing the wealth of the
world, and with it grow the poverty, slavery, and rapacity of the
people, the exhaustion of provinces, and the avarice and tyranny of
rulers and magistrates, until at length the empire, rotten at the
heart, becomes the prey of barbarians, and all become slaves
alike,--thus furnishing proof conclusive that the community which
desires to command respect for its own rights _must_ practise respect
for those of others; or in other words, must adopt as its motto the
great lesson which lies at the base of all Christianity--"Do unto
others as ye would that they should do unto you."

A survey of the British Empire at the present moment presents to view
some features so strongly resembling those observed in ancient Rome as
to warrant calling the attention of the reader to their careful
observation. Like Rome, England has desired to establish political
centralization by aid of fleets and armies, but to this she has added
commercial centralization, far more destructive in its effects, and
far more rapid in its operation. Rome was content that her subjects
should occupy themselves as they pleased, either in the fields or in
the factories, provided only that they paid their taxes. England, on
the contrary, has sought to restrict her subjects and the people of
the world in their modes of employment; and this she has done with a
view to compel them to make all their exchanges in her single market,
leaving to her to fix the prices of all she bought and all she sold,
thus taxing them at her discretion in both time and money. She has
sought to compel all other nations to follow the plough, leaving to
her the loom and the anvil, and thus to render it necessary that they
should bring to her all their products in the rudest form, at great
cost of transportation, and total loss of the manure yielded by them,
thus exhausting their soil and themselves; and the consequences of
this are seen in the ruin, depopulation, and slavery of the West
Indies, Ireland, India, Portugal, Turkey, and other countries that
have been partially or wholly subjected to her dominion. Hence it is
that she is seen to be everywhere seeking "new markets." Bengal having
been in a great degree exhausted, it became necessary to annex the
North-west provinces, and thence we find her stretching out her hand
at one moment to seize on Affghanistan, at another to force the
Chinese into permitting her to smuggle opium, and at a third to expel
the Sikhs and occupy the Punjab, as preliminary to this invasion and
subjection of the Burman Empire. She needs, and must have new markets,
as Rome needed new provinces, and for the same reason, the exhaustion
of the old ones. She rejoices with great joy at the creation of a new
market in Australia, and looks with a longing eye on the Empire of
Japan, whose prosperous people, under a peaceful government, prefer to
avoid entering on the same course of action that has resulted in the
reduction of the wealthy and powerful Hindostan to its present
distressed condition.

It was against this system that Adam Smith cautioned his countrymen,
as not only a violation of "the most sacred rights" of man, but as
leading inevitably to consequences in the highest degree injurious to
themselves, in depreciating the value of both labour and capital. Up
to his time, however, it had been carried out in a very small degree.
The colonies were then few in number, but, those were heavily taxed,
as has been shown in the candid admission of _Joshua Gee_, that the
colonists carried home but one-fourth of the value of the commodities
they brought to the great market.[127] The system was then only in its
infancy. In India, the Company had but then first obtained the
concession of a right to act in the capacity of tax-gatherer for
Bengal. On this continent, the right thus to tax the colonists was
seriously contested, and _The Wealth of Nations_ had not been long
before the world before it came to be explicitly and successfully
denied. The tendency of the system was, however, so obvious to its
author, that he desired to warn his countrymen against the effort to
build up "colonies of customers," as unworthy of a great people, and
worthy only of "a nation of shopkeepers,"--and happy for them would it
have been had his advice been taken. It was not. From that day to the
present, every step has been in the direction against which he
cautioned them, as was shown in a former chapter, and from year to
year the people of England have become more and more the mere traders
in the products of the labours of other men, and more and more
compelled to seek "new markets," as did the Roman people,--the only
difference being that in every case the exhaustion has been
accomplished with a rapidity unparalleled in the annals of Rome, or of
the world. A century since, India was rich, and now her government,
collecting annually one-fifth of the whole value of the land, is
sustained only by means of a monopoly of the power to poison and
enslave the Chinese by means of a vile drug, and the poor Hindoo is
forced to seek for food in the swamps of Jamaica and Guiana. Half a
century since, Ireland had a highly cultivated society, with a press
that sent forth large editions of the most valuable and expensive
books produced in England, and now her people are decimated by famine
and pestilence. Twenty years since, there existed some little prospect
that the poor negroes of Jamaica and Guiana might at some future time
become civilized, but that hope has passed away, as has the value of
the land upon which they have been employed. What has been the effect
of this course of policy upon the condition of the people of England
we may now inquire.

In the days of Adam Smith it was estimated that there were in that
country 220,000 owners of land, and as a necessary consequence of this
extensive ownership of property, there was a very decided tendency
toward an increase in the freedom of man, as shown in the efforts made
but a few years later for obtaining a reform in various matters of
government. The French Revolution came, however, and now the doctrine
of "ships, colonies, and commerce" had much to do in bringing about a
state of war, during the whole of which England enjoyed almost a
monopoly of the trade of the world. Having all the woollen and cotton
machinery, and almost all the machinery for the production of iron,
she was enabled to buy produce and sell manufactures at her own
prices; and thus were the already wealthy greatly enriched. The poor-
houses were, however, everywhere filled with starving labourers, and
so rapidly did their number increase that it became at length
necessary to give to the statute of Elizabeth a new and enlarged
construction; and here do we find another coincidence in the working
of Roman and British centralization. A still further one will be found
in the fact that precisely as the labourer was losing all power of
self-government, the little proprietors of land disappeared, to be
replaced by day-labourers.

The peace, however came, and with it a desire on the part of other
nations to supply themselves with cloth, iron, and other manufactured
commodities; and to enable them to carry into effect their wishes,
many of them imposed duties having for their object the bringing
together of the plough and the loom, the hammer and the harrow. This
produced, of course, a necessity for new exertions to underwork those
nations, leading to constant improvements of machinery, each tending
to enable the capitalist more and more to accumulate fortune and
purchase land, the consolidation of which has been continued until at
length it has resulted in the fact, that in place of the 220,000
English land-owners of the days of Adam Smith, there now exist but
30,000, while all the land of Scotland has, as is stated, accumulated
in the hands of 6000 persons.

As the 190,000 proprietors came by degrees to be represented by
day-labourers, pauperism increased, and the labourer became from year
to year more enslaved, and more dependent for existence upon the
favours of farmers, parish beadles, and constables, until at length a
reform of the system having become absolutely necessary, it was
undertaken. Instead, however, of inquiring into the causes of this
increased dependence with a view to their abolition, it was determined
to abolish the relief that they had rendered necessary, and hence the
existence of the new poor-law. By virtue of its provisions, inability
to obtain food became a crime punishable by the separation of husbands
from wives and parents from children; and thus we see that in the last
twenty years English legislation has tended greatly in the same
direction with the domestic slave trade of this country.

Consolidation of the land drove the labourers from the cultivation of
the soil, while improved machinery tended constantly to drive them out
from the factory, and thus were the poor made poorer and weaker, as
the rich grew richer and stronger. Ireland, too, contributed largely
to the same result. As the Act of Union gradually closed her factories
and drove her people to cultivation as the sole means of supporting
life, they found themselves, like the Italians of olden time, forced
to emigrate to the place where taxes were distributed, in the hope of
obtaining wages, and their competition threw the English labourer
still more in the hands of the capitalist. From year to year the small
proprietor was seen to pass into the condition of a day-labourer, and
the small employing mechanic or tradesman to pass into a receiver of
wages, and thus did the whole people tend more and more to become
divided into two great classes, separated from each other by an
impassable gulf, the very rich and the very poor, the master and the
slave.

As England became more and more flooded with the wretched people of
the sister island, driven from home in search of employment, the
wealthy found it more and more easy to accomplish "the great works"
for which, as the London _Times_ inform us, the country is indebted to
the "cheap labour of Ireland," and the greater the influx of this
labour the more rapid was the decline in the power of both Ireland and
Britain to furnish a market for the products of the manufacturing,
labour of England. Hence arose, of course, a necessity for looking
abroad for new markets to take the place of those before obtained at
home, and thus cheap labour, a _consequence_ of the system, became in
its turn a _cause_ of new efforts at dispensing with and further
cheapening labour. As the Irishman could no longer buy, it became
necessary that the Hindoo should be driven from his own market. As the
Highlander was expelled, it became more and more necessary to
underwork the spinners and weavers of China. As the Bengalese now
become impoverished, there arises a necessity for filling the Punjab,
and Affghanistan, Burmah and Borneo, with British goods. Pauperism
lies necessarily at the root of such a system. "It is," said a speaker
at the late Bradford election for representative in Parliament--

 "Its root. That system is based on foreign competition. Now I assert,
 that _under the buy cheap and sell dear principle, brought to bear on
 foreign competition, the ruin of the working and small trading
 classes must go on. Why?_ Labour is the creator of all wealth. A man
 must work before a grain is grown, or a yard is woven. But there is
 no self-employment for the working-man in this country. Labour is a
 hired commodity--labour is a thing in the market that is bought and
 sold; consequently, as labour creates all wealth, labour is the first
 thing bought. 'Buy cheap! buy cheap!' Labour is bought in the
 cheapest market. But now comes the next. 'Sell dear! sell dear!' Sell
 what? _Labors produce_. To whom? To the foreigner--ay! and to _the
 labourer himself_--for labour not being self-employed, the labourer
 is _not_ the partaker of the first-fruits of his toil. 'Buy cheap,
 sell dear.' How do you like it? 'Buy cheap, sell dear.' Buy the
 working-man's labour cheaply, and sell back to that very working-man
 the produce of his own labour dear! The principle of inherent loss is
 in the bargain. The employer buys the labour cheap--he sells, and on
 the sale he must, make a profit: he sells to the working-man
 himself--and thus every bargain between employer and employed is a
 deliberate cheat on the part of the employer. Thus labour has to sink
 through eternal loss, that capital may rise through lasting fraud.
 But the system stops not here. THIS IS BROUGHT TO BEAR ON FOREIGN
 COMPETITION--WHICH MEANS, WE MUST RUIN THE TRADE OF OTHER COUNTRIES,
 AS WE HAVE RUINED THE LABOUR OF OUR OWN. How does it work? The
 high-taxed country has to undersell the low-taxed. _Competition
 abroad is constantly increasing, consequently cheapness must increase
 also._ Therefore, wages in England must keep constantly falling. And
 how do they effect the fall? By _surplus labour_. By monopoly of the
 land, which drives more hands than are wanted into the factory. By
 monopoly of machinery, which drives those hands into the street; by
 woman labour, which drives the man from the shuttle; by child labour,
 which drives the woman from the loom. Then planting their foot upon
 that living base of surplus, they press its aching heart beneath
 their heel, and cry 'Starvation! Who'll work? A half loaf is better
 than no bread at all;' and the writhing mass grasps greedily at their
 terms. Such is the system for the working-man. But, electors, how
 does it operate on you? how does it affect home trade, the
 shopkeeper, poor's rate, and taxation? _For every increase of
 competition abroad there must be an increase of cheapness at home._
 Every increase of cheapness in labour is based on increase of labour
 surplus, and this surplus is obtained by an increase of machinery. I
 repeat, how does this operate on you? The Manchester liberal on my
 left establishes a new patent, and throws three hundred men as a
 surplus in the streets. Shopkeepers! Three hundred customers less.
 Rate-payers! Three hundred paupers more. But, mark me! The evil stops
 not there. _These three hundred men operate first to bring down the
 wages of those who remain at work in their own trade._ The employer
 says, 'Now I reduce your wages.' The men demur. Then he adds, 'Do you
 see those three hundred men who have just walked out? _you may change
 places if you like_, they're sighing to come in on any terms, for
 they're starving.' The men feel it, and are crushed. Ah! you
 Manchester liberal! Pharisee of politics! those men are
 listening--have I got you now? But the evil stops not yet. _Those
 men, driven from their own trade, seek employment in others, when
 they swell the surplus and bring wages down._"

Strong as is all this, it is nevertheless true, England is engaged in
a war of extermination waged against the labour of all other countries
employed in any pursuit except that of raising raw produce to be sent
to her own market, there to be exchanged for the cloth and the iron
produced at the mills and furnaces of her _millionaires_, who have
accumulated their vast fortunes at the expense of Ireland, India,
Portugal, Turkey, and the other countries that have been ruined by the
system which looks to the exhaustion of the soil of all other lands,
to the impoverishment and enslavement of their people, and which was
so indignantly denounced by Adam Smith. In the effort to crush them
she has been crushing her own people, and the more rapid the spread of
pauperism at home the greater have been her efforts to produce the
surplus labour which causes a fall of wages at home and abroad.

With the consolidation of land in the hands of a few proprietors there
is a steady decline in the number of people employed upon it, and an
equally steady one in that hope of rising in the world which is
elsewhere seen to be the best incentive to exertion. "The peasant
knows," says a recent English writer,[128] "that he must die in the
same position in which he was born." Again, he says, "the want of
small farms deprives the peasant of all hope of improving his
condition in life." The London _Times_ assures its readers that "once
a peasant in England, the man must remain a peasant for ever;" and Mr.
Kay, after careful examination of the condition of the people of
continental Europe, assures his readers that, as one of the
consequences of this state of things, the peasantry of England "are
more ignorant, more demoralized, less capable of helping themselves,
and more pauperized, than those of any other country in Europe, if we
except Russia, Turkey, South Italy, and some parts of the Austrian
Empire."[129]

Under such circumstances, the middle class tends gradually to pass
away, and its condition is well expressed by the term now so
frequently, used, "the uneasy class." The small capitalist, who would
elsewhere purchase a piece of land, a horse and cart, or a machine of
some kind calculated to enable him to double the productiveness of his
labour and increase its reward, is in England forced to make his
investments in savings banks or life-insurance offices, and thus to
place his little capital in the hands of others, at three per cent.,
whereas he could have fifty or a hundred per cent., could he be
permitted to use it himself. There is, therefore, a perpetual strife
for life, and each man is, as has been said, "endeavouring to snatch
the piece of bread from his neighbour's mouth." The atmosphere of
England is one of intense gloom. Every one is anxious for the future,
for himself or his children. There is a universal feeling of doubt as
to how to dispose of the labour or the talents of themselves or their
sons, and the largest fees are paid to men already wealthy, in the
hope of obtaining aid toward securing steady employment. "This _gloom_
of England," says a late English writer--

 "Is in truth one of the most formidable evils of modern times. With
 all the advance, in morality and decency of the present century, we
 have receded rather than gone forward in the attainment of that true
 Christian cheerfulness, which--notwithstanding the popular
 proverb--I believe to be the blessing next in value to godliness.

 "I truly believe," he continues, "that one of the chief obstacles to
 the progress of pure living Christianity in this country is to be
 found in that worldly carefulness which causes our intense gravity,
 and makes us the most silent nation in Europe. The respectability of
 England is its bane; we worship respectability, and thus contrive to
 lose both the enjoyments of earth and the enjoyments of heaven. If
 Great Britain could once learn to laugh like a child, she would be in
 the way once more to pray like a saint.

 "But this is not all: the sensuality and gross vice, and the hateful
 moroseness and harshness of temper, which result from our
 indisposition for gayety and enjoyment, are literally awful to think
 of. Pride and licentiousness triumph in our land, because we are too
 careworn or too stupid to enter heartily into innocent recreations.
 Those two demons, one of which first cast man out of Paradise, while
 the other has degraded him to the level of the brutes, are served by
 myriads of helpless slaves, who are handed over to a bondage of
 passion, through the gloominess that broods over our national
 character. The young and the old alike, the poor and the wealthy, are
 literally driven to excess, because there is nothing in our state of
 society to refresh them after their toils, or to make life as much a
 season of enjoyment as the inevitable lot of mortality will allow.

 "Men fly to vice for the want of pure and innocent pleasures. The
 gin-shops receive those who might be entertaining themselves with the
 works of art in a public gallery. The whole animal portion of our
 being is fostered at the expense of the spiritual. We become
 brutalized, because we are morbidly afraid of being frivolous and of
 wasting our time. The devil keeps possession of an Englishman's
 heart, through the instrumentality of his carnal passions, because he
 is too proud and too stupid to laugh and enjoy himself.

 "Secret sin destroys its myriads, immolated on the altar of outward
 respectability and of a regard for the opinion of a money-getting
 world."

The existence of such a state of things is indeed a "formidable evil,"
but how could it fail to exist in a country in which all individuality
is being lost as the little land-owner gradually disappears to be
replaced by the day-labourer, and as the little shop-keeper gradually
sinks into a clerk? How could it be otherwise in a country in which
weak women, and children of the most tender age, spend their nights in
cellars, and the long day of twelve or fifteen hours in factories,
whose owners know of them nothing but, as in a penitentiary, their
number--a country in which males and females work naked in
coal-mines--and find themselves compelled to do all these things
because of the necessity for preventing the poor Hindoo from calling
to his aid the powerful steam, and for compelling him, his wife, and
his children, to limit themselves to the labour of the field? How
could it be otherwise in a country in which "labourers, whether well
off or not, never attempt to be better?"[130] How otherwise in a
country distinguished among all others for the enormous wealth of a
few, for the intensity of toil and labour of all below them, and for
the anxiety with which the future is regarded by all but those who,
bereft of hope, know that all they can expect on this side of the
grave is an indifferent supply of food and raiment? "In no country of
the world," says Mr. Kay--

 "Is so much time spent in the mere acquisition of wealth, and so
 little time in the enjoyment of life and of all the means of
 happiness which God has given to man, as in England.

 "In no country in the world do the middle classes labour so intensely
 as here. One would think, to view the present state of English
 society, that man was created for no other purpose than to collect
 wealth, and that he was forbidden to gratify the beautiful tastes
 with which he has been gifted for the sake of his own happiness. To
 be rich, with us, is the great virtue, the pass into all society, the
 excuse for many frailties, and the mask for numerous deformities."

An Eastern proverb says that "curses, like young chickens, always come
home to roost." Few cases could be presented of a more perfect
realization of this than is found in the present condition of England.
Half a century since it was decreed that the poor people of Ireland
should confine themselves to the cultivation and exhaustion of their
soil, abstaining from the mining of coal, the smelting of ore, or the
making of cloth; and during nearly all that time they have so flooded
England with "cheap labour" as to have produced from the _Times_ the
declaration, before referred to, that "for a whole generation man has
been a drug and population a nuisance"--precisely the state of things
in which men tend most to become enslaved. Cheap corn, cheap cotton,
cheap tobacco, and cheap sugar, mean low-priced agricultural labour;
and the low-priced labourer is always a slave, and aiding to produce
elsewhere the slavery of his fellow-labourers, whether in the field
or in the workshop. This, however, is in perfect accordance with the
doctrines of some of England's most distinguished statesmen, as the
reader has already seen in the declaration of Mr. Huskisson, that "to
give capital a fair remuneration, the price of labour must be kept
down,"--by which he proved the perfect accuracy of the predictions of
the author of _The Wealth of Nations_.

The harmony of true interests among nations is perfect, and an
enlightened self-interest would lead every nation to carry into full
effect the golden rule of Christianity; and yet even now, the most
distinguished men in England regard smuggling almost as a virtuous
act, and the smuggler as a great reformer, because his labours tend to
enable their countrymen to do everywhere what has been done in the
West Indies, in Ireland, Portugal, Turkey, and India--separate the
consumer from the producer. They regard it as the appointed work of
England to convert the whole earth into one vast farm dependent upon
one vast workshop, and that shop in the island of Great Britain. Such
being the views of peers of the realm, lord chancellors, ministers of
state, political economists, and statisticians, can we wonder at a
decline of morality among the middle class, under the combined
influence of the struggle for life, and the assurance that "the end
sanctifies the means," and that false invoices are but a means of
working out a great reformation in the commercial system of the world?
Good ends rarely require such means for their accomplishment, and the
very fact that it was needed to have Gibraltar as a means of smuggling
into Spain, Canada as a means of smuggling into this country,[131] and
Hong Kong for the purpose of poisoning the Chinese with smuggled
opium, should have led to a careful consideration of the question
whether or not the system which looked to exhausting the soil of
Virginia and driving the poor negro to the sugar culture in Texas, was
one of the modes of "doing God service."

Unsound moral feeling is a necessary consequence of an exclusive
devotion to trade such as is now seen to exist in England. It is the
business of the trader to buy cheaply and sell dearly, be the
consequences what they may to those from whom he buys, or to whom he
sells; and unhappily the prosperity of England now depends so entirely
on buying cheaply and selling dearly that she is forced to overlook
the effects upon those to whom she sells, or from whom she buys, and
she therefore rejoices when others are being ruined, and grieves when
they are being enriched. Her interests are always, and necessarily so,
opposed to those of the rest of the world. She _must_ look at every
thing with the eyes of the mere trader who wishes to buy cheaply and
sell dearly, living at the cost of the producer and the consumer. The
former desires good prices for his sugar, and yet so anxious was she
to obtain cheap sugar that she forgot her engagements with the poor
emancipated negroes of Jamaica. The former desire's good prices for
his corn, but so anxious was she to have cheap corn, that she forgot
having deprived the people of Ireland of all employment but in
agriculture, and at once adopted measures whose action is now
expelling the whole nation from the scenes of their youth, and
separating husbands and wives, mothers and children. She has placed
herself in a false position, and cannot now _afford_ to reflect upon
the operation of cheap sugar and cheap corn, cheap cotton and cheap
tobacco, upon the people who produce them; and therefore it is that
the situation of Ireland and India, and of the poor people Of Jamaica,
is so much shut out from discussion. Such being the case with those
who should give tone to public opinion, how can we look for sound or
correct feeling among the poor occupants of "the sweater's den,"[132]
or among the 20,000 tailors of London, seeking for work and unable to
find it? Or, how look for it among the poor shopkeepers, compelled in
self-defence to adulterate almost every thing they sell, when they see
the great cotton manufacturer using annually hundreds of barrels of
flour to enable him to impose worthless cloth upon the poor Hindoo,
and thus annihilate his foreign competitor? Or, how expect to find it
among the poor operatives of Lancashire, at one moment working full
time, at another but three days in a week, and at a third totally
deprived of employment, because goods can no longer be smuggled into
foreign countries to leave a profit? With them, the question of food
or no food is dependent altogether upon the size of the cotton crop.
If the slave trade is brisk, much cotton is made, and they have wages
with which to support their wives and children. If the crop is large,
the planter may be ruined, but they themselves are fed. "The weekly
mail from America," we are told--

 "Is not of more moment to the great cotton lord of Manchester, than
 it is to John Shuttle the weaver. * * * If he ever thinks how
 entirely his own existence and that of his own little household
 depend upon the American crop * * * he would tremble at the least
 rumour of war with the Yankees. War with America--a hurricane in
 Georgia--a flood in Alabama--are one and all death-cries to the
 mill-spinner and power-loom weaver. * * * When the cotton fields of
 the Southern States yield less than the usual quantity of cotton, the
 Manchester operative eats less than his average quantity of food.
 When his blood boils at the indignities and cruelties heaped upon the
 coloured, race in the 'Land of the Free,' he does not always remember
 that _to the slave States_ of America _he owes his all_--that _it is
 for his advantage_ that the _negro should wear his chains in
 peace_."--_Household Words_.

"If his "blood boils" at the sufferings of the negro in Brazil, or of
the Hindoo in the Mauritius, he must recollect that it is at the cost
of those sufferings that he is supplied with cheap sugar. If he be
shocked at the continuance of the African slave trade, he must
recollect that if negroes ceased to be imported into Cuba, he might
have to pay a higher price for his coffee. If he is excited at the
idea of the domestic slave trade of this country, he must calm himself
by reflecting that it is "for his advantage" it is continued, and that
without it he could not have cheap cotton. The labourers of the
various parts of the world are thus taught that there is among
themselves an universal antagonism of interests, and this tends, of
course, to the production of a bad state of moral feeling, and an
universal tendency to decline in the feeling of self-dependence. Men,
women, and children are becoming from day to day more dependent on the
will of others, and as it is that dependence which constitutes
slavery, we might with reason expect to find some of the vices of the
slave--and were we to find them we should not greatly err in
attributing their existence to the system thus described by Adam
Smith:--

 "The industry of Great Britain, instead of being accommodated to a
 great number of small markets, has been principally suited to one
 great market. Her commerce, instead of running in a great number of
 small channels, has been taught to run principally in one great
 channel. But the whole system of her industry and commerce has
 thereby been rendered less secure, the whole state of her body
 politic less healthful than it otherwise would have been. In her
 present condition, Great Britain resembles one of those unwholesome
 bodies in which some of the vital parts are overgrown, and which,
 upon that account, are liable to many dangerous disorders, scarce
 incident to those in which all the parts are more properly
 proportioned. A small stop in that great blood-vessel which has been
 artificially swelled beyond its natural dimensions, and through which
 an unnatural proportion of the industry and commerce of the country
 has been forced to circulate, is very likely to bring on the most
 dangerous disorders upon the whole body politic."

This is an accurate picture of that country under a system that seeks
to direct the whole energies of its people into one direction, that of
"buying in the cheapest market and selling in the dearest one,"--the
pursuit that is, of all others, the least favourable to the
development of the moral and intellectual faculties of man. How it is
operating may be judged by the following description from an English
writer already quoted:--

 "Of the children of the poor, who are yearly born in England, vast
 numbers never receive any education at all, while many others never
 enter any thing better than a dame or a Sunday-school. In the towns
 they are left in crowds until about eight or nine years of age, to
 amuse themselves in the dirt of the streets, while their parents
 pursue their daily toil. In these public thoroughfares, during the
 part of their lives which is most susceptible of impressions and most
 retentive of them, they acquire dirty, immoral, and disorderly
 habits; they become accustomed to wear filthy and ragged clothes;
 they learn to pilfer and to steal; they associate with boys who have
 been in prison, and who have there been hardened in crime by evil
 associates; they learn how to curse one another, how to fight, how to
 gamble, and how to fill up idle hours by vicious pastimes; they
 acquire no knowledge except the knowledge of vice; they never come in
 contact with their betters; and they are not taught either the truths
 of religion or the way by which to improve their condition in life.
 Their amusements are as low as their habits. The excitements of low
 debauchery too horrible to be named, of spirituous liquors, which
 they begin to drink as early as they can collect pence wherewith to
 buy them, of the commission and concealments of thefts, and of rude
 and disgusting sports, are the pleasures of their life. The idea of
 going to musical meetings such as those of the German poor, would be
 scoffed at, even if there were any such meetings for them to attend.
 Innocent dancing is unknown to them. Country sports they cannot have.
 Read they cannot. So they hurry for amusement and excitement to the
 gratification of sensual desires and appetites. In this manner,
 filthy, lewd, sensual, boisterous, and skilful in the commission of
 crime, a great part of the populations of our towns grow up to
 manhood. Of the truth or falsehood of this description any one can
 convince himself, who will examine our criminal records, or who will
 visit the back streets of any English town, when the schools are
 full, and count the children upon the door-steps and pavements, and
 note their condition, manners, and appearance, and their degraded and
 disgusting practices."--Kay, vol. i. 33.[133]

This is, however, little different from what might be looked, for in a
country whose provision for the education of its people is thus
described:--

 "About one-half of our poor can neither read nor write. The test of
 signing the name at marriage is a very imperfect absolute test of
 education, but it is a very good relative one: taking that test, how
 stands Leeds itself in the Registrar-General's returns? In Leeds,
 which is the centre of the movement for letting education remain as
 it is, left entirely to chance and charity to supply its
 deficiencies, how do we find the fact? This, that in 1846, the last
 year to which these returns are brought down, of 1850 marriages
 celebrated in Leeds and Hunslet, 508 of the men and 1020 of the
 women, or considerably more than one-half of the latter, signed their
 names with marks. 'I have also a personal knowledge of this
 fact--that of 47 men employed upon a railway in this immediate
 neighbourhood, only 14 men can sign their names in the receipt of
 their wages; and this not because of any diffidence on their part,
 but positively because they cannot write.' And only lately, the
 _Leeds Mercury_ itself gave a most striking instance of ignorance
 among persons from Boeotian Pudsey: of 12 witnesses, 'all of
 respectable appearance, examined before the Mayor of Bradford at the
 court-house there, only one man could sign his name, and that
 indifferently.' Mr. Nelson has clearly shown in statistics of crime
 in England and Wales from 1834 to 1844, that crime is invariably the
 most prevalent in those districts where the fewest numbers in
 proportion to the population can read and write. Is it not indeed
 beginning at the wrong end to try and reform men, after they have
 become criminals? Yet you cannot begin, with children, from want of
 schools. Poverty is the result of ignorance, and then ignorance is
 again the unhappy result of poverty. 'Ignorance makes men improvident
 and thoughtless--women as well as men; it makes them blind to the
 future--to the future of this life as well as the life beyond. It
 makes them dead to higher pleasures than those of the mere senses,
 and keeps them down to the level of the mere animal. Hence the
 enormous extent of drunkenness throughout this country, and the
 frightful waste of means which it involves.' At Bilston, amidst
 20,000 people, there are but two struggling schools--one has lately
 ceased; at Millenhall, Darlaston, and Pelsall, amid a teeming
 population, no school whatever. In Oldham, among 100,000, but one
 public day-school for the labouring classes; the others are an infant
 school, and some dame and factory schools. At Birmingham, there are
 21,824 children at school, and 23,176, at no school; at Liverpool,
 50,000 out of 90,000 at no school; at Leicester, 8200 out of 12,500;
 and at Leeds itself, in 1841, (the date of the latest returns,) some
 9600 out of 16,400, were at no school whatever. It is the same in the
 counties. 'I have seen it stated, that a woman for some time had to
 officiate as clerk in a church in Norfolk, there being no adult male
 in the parish able to read and write. For a population of 17,000,000
 we have but twelve normal schools; while in Massachusetts they have
 three such schools for only 800,000 of population."

Such being the education of the young, we may now look to see how Mr.
Kay describes that provided for people of a more advanced period of
life:--

 "The crowd of low pot-houses in our manufacturing districts is a sad
 and singular spectacle. They are to be found in every street and
 alley of the towns, and in almost every lane and turning of the more
 rural villages of those districts, if any of those villages can be
 called rural.

 "The habit of drunkenness pervades the masses of the operatives to an
 extent never before known in our country.

 "In a great number of these taverns and pot-houses of the
 manufacturing districts, prostitutes are kept for the express purpose
 of enticing the operatives to frequent them, thus rendering them
 doubly immoral and pernicious. I have been assured in Lancashire, on
 the best authority, that in one of the manufacturing towns, and that,
 too, about third rate in point of size and population, there are
 _sixty_ taverns, where prostitutes are kept by the tavern landlords,
 in order to entice customers into them. Their demoralizing influence
 upon the population _cannot be exaggerated_; and yet these are almost
 the only resorts which the operatives have, when seeking amusement or
 relaxation.

 "In those taverns where prostitutes are not actually kept for the
 purpose of enticing customers, they are always to be found in the
 evenings, at the time the workmen go there to drink. In London and in
 Lancashire the gin-palaces are the regular rendezvous for the
 abandoned of both sexes, and the places where the lowest grade of
 women-of-the-town resort to find customers. It is quite clear that
 young men, who once begin to meet their, friends at these places,
 cannot long escape the moral degradation of these hot-houses of vice.

 "The singular and remarkable difference between the respective
 condition of the peasants and operatives of Germany and Switzerland,
 and those of England and Ireland, in this respect, is alone
 sufficient to prove the singular difference between their respective
 social condition.

 "The village inn in Germany is quite a different kind of place to the
 village inn in England. It is intended and used less for mere
 drinking, than, as a place for meeting and conversation; it is, so to
 speak, the villagers' club."--Vol. i. 232.

Under such circumstances, we cannot be surprised when told by Mr.
Alison that over the whole kingdom crime increases four times as fast
as the population, and that "in Lancashire population doubles in
thirty years, crime in five years and a half." How, indeed, could it
be otherwise under a system based upon the idea of "keeping labour
down"--one that tends to the consolidation of the land and the
exclusion of men from the work of cultivation, and then excludes them
from the factory, while forcing hundreds of thousands of indigent and
almost starving Irish into England in search of employment? The
process of "eviction" in Ireland has been already described. How the
same work has been, and is being, performed in England is thus stated
by the _Times_:--

 "Our village peasantry are jostled about from cottage to cottage, or
 from cottage to no cottage at all, as freely and with as little
 regard to their personal tastes, and conveniences as if we were
 removing our pigs, cows, and horses from one sty or shed to another.
 If they cannot get a house over their heads they go to the Union, and
 are distributed--the man in one part, the wife in another, and the
 children again somewhere else. That is a settled thing. Our peasantry
 bear it, or, if they can't bear it, they die, and there is an end of
 it on this side of the grave; though how it will stand at the great
 audit, we leave an 'English Catholic' to imagine. We only mean to say
 that in England the work has been done; cotters have been
 exterminated; small holdings abolished; the process of eviction
 rendered superfluous; the landlord's word made law; the refuge of the
 discontented reduced to a workhouse, and all without a shot, or a
 bludgeon, or a missile being heard of."

Thus driven from the land, they are forced to take refuge in London
and Liverpool, Manchester, Birmingham, and Leeds, and accordingly
there it is that we find nearly the whole increase of population in
the last ten years. Out of less than two millions, more than 400,000
were added to the number of London alone, and those who are familiar
with Mr. Mayhew's work, _London Labour and London Poor_, do not need
to be told of the extraordinary wretchedness, nor of the immorality
that there abound. Inquiries get on foot by Lord Ashley have shown
that "in the midst of that city there are," says Mr. Kay--

 "Persons, forming a separate class, having pursuits, interests,
 manners; and customs of their own, and that the filthy, deserted,
 roaming, and lawless children, who may be called the source of
 19-20ths of the crime which desolates the metropolis, are not fewer
 in number than THIRTY THOUSAND!

 "These 30,000 are quite independent of the number of mere pauper
 children, who crowd the streets of Londen, and who never enter a
 school: but of these latter nothing will be said here.

 "Now, what are the pursuits, the dwelling-houses, and the habits of
 these poor wretches? Of 1600, who were examined, 162 confessed that
 they had been in prison, not merely once, or even twice, but some of
 them several times; 116 had run away from their homes; 170 slept in
 the "lodging-houses;" 253 had lived altogether by beggary; 216 had
 neither shoes nor stockings; 280 had no hat or cap, or covering for
 the head; 101 had no linen; 249 had never slept in a bed; many had no
 recollection of ever having been in a bed; 68 were the children of
 convicts,"--Vol. i. 394.

In the towns of the manufacturing districts there are, says the same
author--

 "A great number of cellars beneath the houses of the small
 shopkeepers and operatives, which are inhabited by crowds of poor
 inhabitants. Each of these cellar-houses contains at the most two,
 and often, and in some towns generally, only one room. These rooms
 measure in Liverpool, from 10 to 12 feet square. In some other towns,
 they are rather larger. They are generally flagged. The flags lie
 "directly" upon the earth, and are generally wretchedly damp. In wet
 weather they are very often not dry for weeks together. Within a few
 feet of the windows of these cellars, rises the wall which keeps the
 street from falling in upon them, darkening the gloomy rooms, and
 preventing the sun's rays penetrating into them.

 "Dr. Duncan, in describing the cellar-houses of the manufacturing
 districts, says[134]--'The cellars are ten or twelve feet square;
 generally flagged, but frequently having only the bare earth for a
 floor, and sometimes less than six feet in height. There is
 frequently no window, so that light and air can gain access to the
 cellar only by the door, the top of which is often not higher than
 the level of the street. In such cellars ventilation is out of the
 question. They, are of course dark; and from the defective drainage,
 they are also very generally damp. There is sometimes a back cellar,
 used as a sleeping apartment, having no direct communication with the
 external atmosphere, and deriving its scanty supply of light and air
 solely from the front apartment.'"--Vol. i. 447.

 "One of the city missionaries, describing the state of the Mint
 district in the city of London, says, 'it is utterly impossible to
 describe the scenes, which are to be witnessed here, or to set forth
 in its naked deformity the awful characters sin here assumes. * * *
 _In Mint street, alone, there are nineteen lodging-houses._ The
 majority of these latter are awful sinks of iniquity, and are used as
 houses of accommodation. In some of them, both sexes sleep together
 indiscriminately, and such acts are practised and witnessed, that
 married persons, who are in other respects awfully depraved, have
 been so shocked, as to be compelled to get up in the night and leave
 the house. Many of the half-naked impostors, who perambulate the
 streets of London in the daytime, and obtain a livelihood by their
 deceptions, after having thrown off their bandages, crutches, &c.,
 may be found here in their true character; some regaling themselves
 in the most extravagant manner; others gambling or playing cards,
 while the worst of language proceeds from their lips. Quarrels and
 fights are very common, and the cry of murder is frequently heard.
 The public-houses in this street are crowded to excess, especially,
 on the Sabbath evening.[135]

 "In the police reports published in the _Sun_ newspaper of the 11th
 of October, 1849, the following account is given of '_a penny
 lodging-house_' in Blue Anchor Yard, Rosemary Lane. One of the
 policemen examined, thus describes a room in this lodging-
 house:--'It was a very small one, extremely filthy, and there was no
 furniture of any description in it. _There were sixteen men, women,
 and children lying on the floor, without covering. Some of them were
 half naked._ For this miserable shelter, each lodger paid a penny.
 The stench was intolerable, and the place had not been cleaned out
 for some time.'

 "If the nightly inmates of these dens are added to the tramps who
 seek lodging in the vagrant-wards of the workhouses, we shall find
 that there are at least between 40,000 and 50,000 tramps who are
 daily infesting our roads and streets!"--Vol. i. 431.

In the agricultural districts, whole families, husbands and wives,
sons and daughters, sisters-in-law and brothers-in-law, sleep
together, and here we find a source of extraordinary immorality. "The
accounts we receive," says Mr. Kay--

 "From all parts of the country show that these miserable cottages are
 crowded to an extreme, and that the crowding is progressively
 increasing. People of both sexes, and of all ages, both married and
 unmarried--parents, brothers, sisters, and strangers--sleep in the
 same rooms and often in the same beds. One gentleman tells us of six
 people of different sexes and ages, two of whom were man and wife,
 sleeping in the same bed, three with their heads at the top and three
 with their heads at the foot of the bed. Another tells us of adult
 uncles and nieces sleeping in the same room close to each other;
 another of the uncles and nieces sleeping in the same bed together;
 another of adult brothers, and sisters sleeping in the same room with
 a brother and his wife just married; many tell us of adult brothers
 and sisters sleeping in the same beds; another tells us of rooms so
 filled with beds that there is no space between them, but that
 brothers, sisters, and parents crawl over each other half naked in
 order to get to their respective resting-places; another of its being
 common for men and women, not being relations, to undress together in
 the same room, without any feeling of its being indelicate; another
 of cases where women have been delivered in bed-rooms crowded with
 men, young women, and children; and others mention facts of these
 crowded bed-rooms much too horrible to be alluded to. Nor are these
 solitary instances, but similar reports are given by gentlemen
 writing in ALL parts of the country.

 "The miserable character of the houses of our peasantry, is, of
 itself, and independently of the causes which have made the houses so
 wretched, degrading and demoralising the poor of our rural districts
 in a fearful manner. It stimulates the unhealthy and unnatural
 increase of population. The young peasants from their earliest years
 are accustomed to sleep in the same bed-rooms with people of both
 sexes, and with both married and unmarried persons. They therefore
 lose all sense of the indelicacy of such a life. They know, too, that
 they can gain nothing by deferring their marriages and by saving;
 that it is impossible for them to obtain better houses by so doing;
 and that in many cases they must wait many years before they could
 obtain a separate house of any sort. They feel that if they defer
 their marriage for ten or fifteen years, they will be at the end of
 that period in just the same position as before, and no better off
 for their waiting. Having then lost all hope of any improvement of
 their social situation, and all sense of the indelicacy of taking a
 wife home to the bedroom already occupied by parents, brothers, and
 sisters, they marry early in life,--often, if not generally, before
 the age of twenty,--and very often occupy, for the first part of
 their married life, another bed in the already crowded sleeping-room
 of their parents! In this way the morality of the peasants is
 destroyed; the numbers of this degraded population are unnaturally
 increased, and their means of subsistence are diminished by the
 increasing competition of their increasing numbers."--Vol. i. 472.

A necessary consequence of this demoralization is that infanticide
prevails to a degree unknown in any other part of the civilized world.
The London _Leader_ informs its readers that upon a recent occasion--

 "It was declared by the coroner of Leeds, and assented to as probable
 by the surgeon, that there were, as near as could be calculated,
 about three hundred children put to death yearly in Leeds alone that
 were not registered by the law. In other words, three hundred infants
 were murdered to avoid the consequences of their living, and these
 murders, as the coroner said, are never detected."

The reader may now advantageously turn to the account of the state of
education in Leeds, already given,[136] with a view to ascertain the
intellectual condition of the women guilty of the foul and unnatural
crime of child-murder. Doing so, he will find that out of eighteen
hundred and fifty that were married there were _one thousand and
twenty who could not sign their names_--and this in the centre of
civilization in the middle of the nineteenth century!

But a short time since, the _Morning Chronicle_ gave its readers a
list of twenty-two trials, for child-murder alone, that had been
_reported_ in its columns, and these were stated to be but one-half of
those that had taken place in the short period of twenty-seven days!
On the same occasion it stated that although English ruffianism had
"not taken to the knife," it had

 "Advanced in the devilish accomplishment of biting off noses and
 scooping out eyes. Kicking a man to death while he is down," it
 continued, "or treating, a wife in the same way--stamping on an enemy
 or a paramour with hobnailed boots--smashing a woman's head with a
 hand-iron--these atrocities, which are of almost daily occurrence in
 our cities, are not so much imputed crimes as they are the
 extravagant exaggerations of the coarse, brutal, sullen temper of an
 Englishman, brutified by ignorance and stupefied by drink."

On the same occasion the _Chronicle_ stated that in villages few young
people of the present day marry until, as the phrase is, it has
"become necessary." It is, it continued, the rural practice to "keep
company in a very loose sense, till a cradle is as necessary as a
ring." On another, and quite recent occasion, the same journal
furnished its readers with the following striking illustration of the
state of morals:--

 "In one of the recent Dorsetshire cases, [of child murder,] common
 cause was made by the girls of the county. They attended the trial in
 large numbers; and we are informed that on the acquittal of the
 prisoner a general expression of delight was perceptible in the
 court; and they left the assizes town boasting 'that they might now
 do as they liked.' We are then, it seems, with all our boasted
 civilization, relapsing into a barbarous and savage state of
 society."

Lest it might be supposed that this condition of things had been
inherited, the editor stated that--

 "This deplorable state of morals was of comparatively recent growth.
 Old people," he continued, "can often tell the year when the first of
 such cases occurred in their families; and what a sensation of shame
 it then excited; while they will also tell us that the difficulty now
 is to find a lowly couple in village life with whom the rule of
 decency and Christianity is not the exception. It is a disgraceful
 fact--and one which education, and especially religious education,
 has to account for--that a state of morals has grown up in which it
 can no longer be said that our maidens are given in marriage."

Infanticide is not, however, confined to the unmarried. Burial clubs
abound. "In our large provincial towns," says Mr. Kay--

 "The poor are in the habit of entering their children in what are
 called 'burial clubs.' A small sum is paid every year by the parent,
 and this entitles him to receive from 3£. to 5£. from the club, on
 the death of the child. Many parents enter their children in several
 clubs. One man in Manchester has been known to enter his child in
 _nineteen_ different clubs. On the death of such a child, the parent
 becomes entitled to receive a large sum of money; and as the burial
 of the child does not necessarily cost more than 1£., or, at the
 most, 1£.10s., the parent realizes a considerable sum after all the
 expenses are paid!

 "It has been clearly ascertained, that it is a common practice among
 the more degraded classes of poor in many of our towns, to enter
 their infants in these clubs, and then to cause their death either by
 starvation, ill-usage, or poison! What more horrible symptom of moral
 degradation can be conceived? One's mind revolts against it, and
 would fain reject it as a monstrous fiction. But, alas! it seems to
 be but too true.

 "Mr. Chadwick says, 'officers of these burial societies, relieving
 officers, and others, whose administrative duties put them in
 communication with the lowest classes in these districts,' (the
 manufacturing districts,) 'express their moral conviction of the
 operation of such bounties to produce instances of the visible
 neglect of children of which they are witnesses. They often say, 'You
 are not treating that child properly; it will not live: _is it in the
 club_?' And the answer corresponds with the impression produced by
 the sight."--Vol. i. 433.

Commenting on these and numerous other facts of similar kind, the same
author says--

 "These accounts are really almost too horrible to be believed at all;
 and were they not given us on the authority of such great experience
 and benevolence, we should totally discredit them.

 "But, alas, they are only too true! There can be no doubt, that a
 great part of the poorer classes of this country are sunk into such a
 frightful depth of hoplessness, misery, and utter moral degradation,
 that even mothers forget their affection for their helpless little
 offspring, and kill them, as a butcher does his lambs, in order to
 make money by the murder, and therewith to lessen their pauperism and
 misery?"--P. 446.

How rapid is the progress of demoralization may be seen from the fact
that in the thirty years from 1821 to 1851, the consumption of British
spirits increased from 4,125,616 to 9,595,368 gallons, or in a ratio
more than double that of the population. The use of opium is also
increasing with rapidity.[137] Intemperance and improvidence go hand
in hand with each other, and hence arises a necessity for burial clubs
for the disposal of the children and the maintenance of the parents.

A recent English journal states that--

 "It is estimated that in Manchester there are 1500 'unfortunate
 females;' that they lead to an annual expenditure of £470,000; and
 that some 250 of them die, in horror and despair, yearly. In England
 it is calculated that there are 40,000 houses of ill-fame, and
 280,000 prostitutes; and, further, that not less than £8,000,000 are
 spent annually in these places."

This may, or may not, be exaggerated, but the condition to which are
reduced so many of the weaker sex would warrant us in expecting a
great decay of morality. When severe labour cannot command a
sufficiency of food, can we be surprised that women find themselves
forced to resort to prostitution as a means of support?

A committee of gentlemen who had investigated the condition of the
sewing-women of London made a report stating that no less than 33,000
of them were "permanently at the starvation point," and were compelled
to resort to prostitution as a means of eking out a subsistence. But a
few weeks since, the _Times_ informed its readers that shirts were
made for a _penny a piece_ by women who found the needles and thread,
and the _Daily News_ furnished evidence that hundreds of young women
had no choice but between prostitution and making artificial flowers
at _twopence a day_! Young ladies seeking to be governesses, and
capable of giving varied instruction, are expected to be satisfied
with the wages and treatment of scullions, and find it difficult to
obtain situations even on such terms. It is in such facts as these
that we must find the causes of those given in the above paragraph.

If we desire to find the character of the young we must look to that
of the aged, and especially to that of the mothers. We see here
something of the hundreds of thousands of young women who are to
supply the future population of England; and if the character of the
latter be in accordance with that of the former, with what hope can we
look to the future?

Nothing indicates more fully the deterioration resulting from this
unceasing struggle for life, than the harsh treatment to which are
subjected persons who need aid in their distress. A case of this kind,
furnished by the _Times_, as occurring at the Lambeth workhouse, so
strongly indicates the decay of kind and generous feeling, that, long
as it is, it is here given:--

 "A poor creature, a young English girl--to be sure, she is not a
 black--a parcel of drenched rags clinging to her trembling form,
 every mark of agony and despair in her countenance, lifts her hand to
 the bell. She rings once and again, and at length the door porter
 appears, accompanied by a person holding a situation under the
 guardians--his name is Brooke--and he is a policeman. She is
 starving, she is pregnant, and almost in the pains of labour, but the
 stern officials will not take her in. Why? Because she had been in
 the workhouse until Tuesday morning last, and had then been
 discharged by 'order of the guardians.' Nor is this all. The tale of
 parochial bounty is not yet half told out. During that long wet
 Tuesday she wandered about. She had not a friend in this great town
 to whom she could apply for the smallest assistance, and on Tuesday
 night she came back to implore once more the kindly shelter of the
 parish workhouse. For yet that night she was taken in, but the next
 morning cast forth into the world again with a piece of dry bread in
 her hand. On Wednesday the same scene was renewed--the same fruitless
 casting about for food and shelter, the same disappointment, and the
 same despair. But parochial bounty can only go thus far, and no
 farther. Charity herself was worn out with the importunity of this
 persevering pauper, and on Thursday night the doors of the parish
 workhouse were finally and sternly shut in her face.

 "But she was not alone in her sufferings. You might have supposed
 that the misery of London--enormous as the amount of London misery
 undoubtedly is--could have shown no counterpart to the frightful
 position of this unfortunate creature--without a home, without a
 friend, without a character, without a shelter, without a bite of
 food--betrayed by her seducer, and the mark for the last twelve hours
 of the floodgates of heaven. * * * Can it be there are two of them?
 Yes! Another young woman, precisely in the same situation, knocks at
 the same workhouse door, and is refused admittance by the same stern
 guardians of the ratepayers' pockets. The two unfortunates club their
 anguish and their despair together, and set forth in quest of some
 archway or place of shelter, beneath which they may crouch until the
 gas-lamps are put out, and the day breaks once more upon their
 sufferings. Well, on they roamed, until one of the two, Sarah
 Sherford, was actually seized with the pangs of labour, when they
 resolved to stagger back to the workhouse; but again the door was
 shut in their faces. What was to be done? They were driven away from
 the house, and moved slowly along, with many a pause of agony, no
 doubt, until they met with a policeman, one Daniel Donovan, who
 directed them to a coffee-house where they might hope to get shelter.
 The coffee-house did not open till 2 o'clock, when they had two
 hours' shelter. But at that hour they were again cast out, as the
 keeper was obliged to come into the street with his stall and attend
 to it. 'At this time (we will here copy the language of our report)
 Sherford's labour pains had considerably increased, and they again
 spoke to the same policeman, Donovan, and told him that, unless she
 was taken into the workhouse or some other place, she must give birth
 to her infant in the street.' Daniel Donovan accordingly conveyed the
 two unfortunate creatures to the workhouse once more, at 4 o'clock in
 the morning. 'The policeman on duty there,' said this witness, 'told
 him that they had been there before, and seemed to have some
 _hesitation_ about admitting them, but on being told that one was in
 the pains of labour, he let them in.'"

What slavery can be worse than this? Here are young women, women in
distress, starving and almost in the pains of labour, driven about
from post to pillar, and from pillar to post, by day and by night,
totally unable to obtain the smallest aid. Assuredly it would be
difficult to find any thing to equal this in any other country
claiming to rank among the civilized nations of the world.

At the moment of writing this page, an English journal furnishes a
case of death from starvation, and closes its account with the
following paragraph, strikingly illustrative of the state of things
which naturally arises where every man is "trying to live by snatching
the bread from his neighbour's mouth."

 "It is hardly possible to conceive a more horrible case. A stalwart,
 strong-framed man, in the prime of life--his long pilgrimage of
 martyrdom from London to Stoney-Stratford--his wretched appeals for
 help to the "_civilization_" around him--his seven days fast--his
 brutal abandonment by his fellow-men--his seeking shelter and being
 driven from resting-place to resting-place--the crowning inhumanity
 of the person named Slade and the patient, miserable death of the
 worn-out man--are a picture perfectly astonishing to contemplate.

 "No doubt he invaded the rights of property, when he sought shelter
 in the shed and in the lone barn!!!"

The recent developments in regard to Bethlem Hospital are thus
described:--

 "Some of the cases of cruelty brought to light by the examiners are
 almost too revolting to describe. It appears that the incurables are
 lodged in cells partially under ground, where their only conches are
 troughs filled with straw and covered with a blanket. On these
 miserable beds, worse than many a man gives to his horse or dog, the
 victims lie in the coldest weather, without night-clothes, frequently
 creeping into the straw in order to keep warm. These poor
 unfortunates also are often fed in a way as disgusting as it is
 cruel, being laid on their backs, and held down by one of the nurses,
 while another forces into the mouth the bread and milk which is their
 allotted food. This revolting practice is adopted to save time, for
 it was proved on oath that patients, thus treated, ate their meals by
 themselves, if allowed sufficient leisure. The imbecile patients,
 instead of being bathed with decency, as humanity and health demands,
 are thrown on the stone-floor, in a state of nudity, and there mopped
 by the nurses. Such things would seem incredible, if they had not
 been proved on oath. Some who were not incurable, having been treated
 in this manner, exposed these atrocities, after their recovery; and
 the result was an investigation, which led to the discovery of the
 abominable manner in which this vast charity has been administered."

These things are a necessary consequence of an universal trading
spirit. For the first time in the annals of the world it has been
proclaimed in England that the paramount object of desire with the
people of a great and Christian nation is to buy cheaply and sell
dearly; and when men find themselves, in self-defence, compelled to
beat down the poor sewing-woman to a penny for making a shirt, or the
poor flower-girl to a scale of wages so low that she must resort to
prostitution for the purpose of supporting life, they can neither be
expected to be charitable themselves, nor to tolerate much charity in
the public officers charged with the expenditure of their
contributions. There is consequently everywhere to be seen a degree of
harshness in the treatment of those who have the misfortune to be
poor, and a degree of contempt in the mode of speech adopted in
relation to them, totally incompatible with the idea of advance in
_real_ civilization.

       *       *       *       *       *

The facts thus far given rest, as the reader will have seen, on the
highest English authority. It is scarcely possible to study them
without arriving at the conclusion that the labouring people of
England are gradually losing all control over the disposition of their
own labour--or in other words, that they are becoming enslaved--and
that with the decay of freedom there has been a decay of morality,
such as has been observed in every other country similarly
circumstanced. To ascertain the cause of this we must refer again to
Adam Smith, who tells us that--

 "No equal quantity of productive labour or capital employed in
 manufacture can ever occasion so great a reproduction as if it were
 employed in agriculture. In these, nature does nothing, man does all,
 and the reproduction must always be proportioned to the strength of
 the agents that occasion it. The capital employed in agriculture,
 therefore, not only puts into motion a greater quantity of productive
 labour than any equal capital employed in manufacture; but, in
 proportion, too, to the quantity of productive labour which it
 employs, it adds a much greater value to the annual value of the land
 and labour of the country, to the real wealth and revenue of its
 inhabitants. Of all the ways which a capital can be employed, it is
 by far the most advantageous to society."

This is the starting point of his whole system, and is directly the
opposite of that from which starts the modern English
politico-economical school that professes to follow in his footsteps,
as will now be shown. The passage here given, which really constitutes
the base upon which rests the whole structure of Dr. Smith's work, is
regarded by Mr. McCulloch as "the most objectionable" one in it, and
he expresses great surprise that "so acute and sagacious a reasoner
should have maintained a doctrine so manifestly erroneous." "So far
indeed," says that gentleman--

 "Is it from being true that nature does much for man in agriculture,
 and nothing for manufactures, that the fact is more nearly the
 reverse. There are no limits to the bounty of nature in manufactures;
 but there are limits, and those not very remote, to her bounty in
 agriculture. The greatest possible amount of capital might be
 expended in the construction of steam-engines, or of any other sort
 of machinery, and, after they had been multiplied indefinitely, the
 last would be as prompt and efficient in producing commodities and
 saving labour as the first. Such, however, is not the case with the
 soil. Lands of the first quality are speedily exhausted; and it is
 impossible to apply capital indefinitely even to the best soils,
 without obtaining from it a constantly diminishing rate of
 profit."--_Principles of Political Economy_.

The error here results from the general error of Mr. Ricardo's system,
which places the poor cultivator among the rich soils of the swamps
and river-bottoms, and sends his rich successors to the poor soils of
the hills,--being directly the reverse of what has happened in every
country of the world, in every county in England, and on every farm in
each and all of those counties.[138] Had he not been misled by the
idea of "the constantly increasing sterility of the soil," Mr.
McCulloch could not have failed to see that the only advantage
resulting from the use of the steam-engine, or the loom, or any other
machine in use for the conversion of the products of the earth, was,
that it diminished the quantity of labour required to be so applied,
and increased the quantity that might be given to the work of
production.

It is quite true that wheelbarrows and carts, wagons and ships, may be
increased indefinitely; but of what use can they possibly be, unless
the things to be carried be first produced, and whence can those
things be obtained except from the earth? The grist-mill is useful,
provided there is grain to be ground, but not otherwise. The
cotton-mill would be useless unless the cotton was first produced.
Agriculture _must_ precede manufactures, and last of all, says Dr.
Smith, comes foreign commerce.[139]

The reader has had before him a passage from Mr. J.S. Mill, in which
that gentleman says that "if the law [of the occupation of the land]
were different, almost all the phenomena of the production and
distribution of wealth would be different from what they now are." In
the days of Adam Smith it had not yet been suggested that men began by
the cultivation of rich soils, and then passed to poor ones, with
constantly diminishing power to obtain food. Population, therefore,
had not come to be regarded as "a nuisance" to be abated by any
measures, however revolting, and imposing upon Christian men the
necessity of hardening their hearts, and permitting their fellow-men
to suffer every extremity of poverty and distress "short of absolute
death," with a view to bring about a necessity for refraining to
gratify that natural inclination which leads men and women to
associate in the manner tending to promote the growth of numbers and
the development of the best feelings of the human heart. It was then
considered right that men and women should marry, and increase of
population was regarded as evidence of increased wealth and strength.
Dr. Smith, therefore, looked at the affairs of the world as they were,
and be saw that the production of commodities not only preceded their
conversion and exchange, but that in the work of production the earth
aided man by increasing the _quantity_ of things to, be consumed;
whereas labour applied in other ways could change them only in their
_form_ or in their _place_, making no addition to their quantity. He,
therefore, saw clearly that the nearer the spinner and the weaver came
to the producer of food and wool, the more would be the quantity of
food and cloth to be divided between them; and thus was he led to see
how great an act of injustice it was on the part of his countrymen to
endeavour to compel the people of the world to send their raw
materials to them to be converted, at such vast loss of
transportation. He had no faith in the productive power of ships or
wagons. He knew that the barrel of flour or the bale of cotton, put
into the ship, came out a barrel of flour or a bale of cotton, the
weight of neither having been increased by the labour employed in
transporting it from this place of production to that of consumption.
He saw clearly that to place the consumer by the side of the producer
was to economize labour and aid production, and therefore to increase
the power to trade. He was, therefore, in favour of the local
application of labour and capital, by aid of which towns should grow
up in the midst of producers of food; and he believed that if "human
institutions" had not been at war with the best interests of man,
those towns would "nowhere have increased beyond what, the improvement
and cultivation of the territory in which they were situated could
support." Widely different is all this from the system which builds up
London, Liverpool, Manchester, and Birmingham, to be the manufacturing
centres of the world, and urges upon all nations the adoption of a
system looking directly to their maintenance and increase!

Directly opposed in this respect to Dr. Smith, Mr. McCulloch has
unbounded faith in the productive power of ships and wagons. To him--

 "It is plain that the capital and labour employed in carrying
 commodities from where they are to be produced to where they are to
 be consumed, and in dividing them into minute portions so as to fit
 the wants of consumers, are really as productive as if they were
 employed in agriculture or in manufactures."--_Principles_, 166.

The man who carries the food adds, as he seems to think, as much to
the quantity to be consumed as did the one who ploughed the ground and
sowed the seed; and he who stands at the counter measuring cloth adds
as much to the quantity of cloth as did he who produced it. No
benefit, in his view, results from any saving of the labour of
transportation or exchange. He has, therefore, no faith in the
advantage to be derived from the local application of labour or
capital. He believes that it matters nothing to the farmer of Ireland
whether his food be consumed on the farm or at a distance from
it--whether his grass be fed on the land or carried to market--whether
the manure be returned to the land or wasted on the road--whether, of
course, the land be impoverished or enriched. He is even disposed to
believe that it is frequently more to the advantage of the people of
that country that the food there produced should be divided among the
labourers of France or Italy than among themselves.[140]

He believes in the advantage of large manufacturing towns at a
distance from those who produce the food and raw materials of
manufacture; and that perfect freedom of trade consists in the quiet
submission of the farmers and planters of the world to the working of
a system which Dr. Smith, regarded as tending so greatly to "the
discouragement of agriculture," that it was the main object of his
work to teach the people of Britain that it was not more unjust to
others than injurious to themselves.

In a work just issued from the press, Mr. McCulloch tells his readers
that--

 "For the reasons now stated, a village built in the immediate
 vicinity of a gentleman's seat generally declines on his becoming an
 absentee. That, however, is in most cases any thing but an injury.
 The inhabitants of such villages are generally poor, needy
 dependants, destitute of any invention, and without any wish to
 distinguish themselves. But when the proprietors are elsewhere, they
 are forced to trust to their own resources, and either establish some
 sort of manufacture, or resort to those manufacturing and commercial
 cities where there is _always_ a ready demand for labourers, and
 where every latent spark of genius is sure to be elicited. Although,
 therefore, it be certainly true that absenteeism has a tendency to
 reduce the villages which are found in the neighbourhood of the
 residences of extensive proprietors, it is not on that account
 prejudicial to the country at large, but the reverse."[141]

It is here seen that the people who own large estates are supposed to
be surrounded by "poor and needy dependants," who are to be stimulated
to exertion by the pressure of want, and that this pressure is to be
produced by the absenteeism of the proprietor. We have here the master
administering the lash to his poor slave, and the only difference
between the English master and the Jamaica one appears to be, that
absenteeism in the one case forces the poor labourer to seek the lanes
and alleys of a great city, and in the other causes him to be worked
to death. The slavery of Ireland, Jamaica, and India is a natural
consequence of the absenteeism of the great land-owners; and the
larger the properties, the greater must be the tendency to
absenteeism, centralization, and slavery; and yet Mr. McCulloch
assures his readers that

 "The advantage of preserving large estates from being frittered down
 by a scheme of equal division is not limited to its effects on the
 younger children of their owners. It raises universally the standard
 of competence, and gives new force to the springs which set industry
 in motion. The manner of living in great landlords is that in which
 every one is ambitious of being able to indulge; and their habits of
 expense, though somewhat injurious to themselves, act as powerful
 incentives to the ingenuity and enterprise of other classes, who
 never think their fortunes sufficiently ample unless they will enable
 them to emulate the splendour of the richest landlords; so that the
 custom of primogeniture seems to render all classes more industrious,
 and to augment at the same time the mass of wealth and the scale of
 enjoyment."--_ Principles_.

The modern system tends necessarily to the consolidation of land, and
the more completely that object can be attained, the greater must, be
"the splendour of the richest landlords," the greater the habits of
expense among the few, the greater their power to absent themselves,
the greater the power of the rapacious middleman or agent, the greater
the poverty and squalor of "the poor and needy dependants," and the
greater the necessity for seeking shelter in the cellars of
Manchester, the wynds of Glasgow, or the brothels of London and
Liverpool; but the larger must be the supply of the commodity called
"cheap labour." In other words, slaves will be more numerous, and
masters will he more able to decide on what shall be the employment of
the labourer, and what shall be its reward.

Adam Smith knew nothing of all this. He saw that capital was always
best managed by its owner, and therefore had no faith in a universal
system of agencies. He saw that the little proprietor was by far the
greatest improver, and he had no belief in the advantage of great
farmers surrounded by day-labourers. He believed in the advantage of
making twelve exchanges in a year in place of one, and he saw clearly
that the nearer the consumer could come to the producer the larger and
more profitable would be commerce. He therefore taught that the
workman should go to the place where, food being abundant, moderate
labour would command much food. His successors teach that the food
should come to the place where, men being abundant and food scarce,
much labour will command little food, and that when population has
thus been rendered superabundant, the surplus should go abroad to
raise more food for the supply of those they left behind. The one
teaches the concentration of man, and the _local_ division of labour.
The other, the dispersion of man, and the _territorial_ division of
labour. They differ thus in every thing, except that they both use the
_word_ free trade--but with reference to totally distinct ideas. With
the one, COMMERCE has that enlarged signification which embraces every
description of intercourse resulting from the exercise of "man's
natural inclination" for association, while with the other TRADE has
reference to no idea, beyond that of the mere pedler who buys in the
cheapest market and sells in the dearest one. The system of the one is
perfectly harmonious, and tends toward peace among men. The other is a
mass of discords, tending toward war among the men and the nations of
the earth.

As ordinarily used, the word Commerce has scarcely any signification
except that of trade with distant men, and yet that is the least
profitable commerce that can be maintained,--as the reader may satisfy
himself if he will reflect that when the miller and the farmer are
near neighbours they divide between them all the flour that is made,
whereas, when they are widely separated, a third man, the carrier,
intervenes between them and takes a large portion of it, leaving less
to be divided between those who raise the wheat and those who convert
it into flour. The more perfect the power of association the greater
must be the power to maintain commerce, for _every act of association
is an act of commerce_, as it is proposed now to show, beginning at
the beginning, in the family, which long precedes the nation. Doing
so, we find the husband exchanging his services in the raising of food
and the materials of clothing, for those of his wife, employed in the
preparation of food for the table, and the conversion of raw materials
into clothing,--and here it is we find the greatest of all trades. Of
all the labour employed on the farms and in the farm-houses of the
Union, we should, could we have an accurate statement, find that the
proportion of its products exchanged beyond their own limits, scarcely
exceeded one-third, and was certainly far less than one-half, the
remainder being given to the raising of food and raw materials for
their own consumption, and the conversion of that food and those
materials into the forms fitting them for their own uses.

At the next step we find ourselves in the little community, of which
the owner of this farm constitutes a portion; and here we find the
farmer exchanging his wheat with one neighbour for a day's labour--the
use of his wagon and his horse for other days of labour--his potatoes
with a third for the shoeing of his horse, and with a fourth for the
shoeing of himself and his children, or the making of his coat. On one
day he or his family have labour to spare, and they pass it off to a
neighbour to be repaid by him in labour on another day. One requires
aid in the spring, the other in the autumn; one gives a day's labour
in hauling lumber, in exchange for that of another, employed in mining
coal or iron ore. Another trades the labour that has been employed in
the purchase of a plough for that of his neighbour which had been
applied to the purchase of a cradle. Exchanges being thus made on the
spot, from hour to hour and from day to day, with little or no
intervention of persons whose business is trade, their amount is
large, and, combined with those of the family, equals probably
four-fifths of the total product of the labour of the community,
leaving not more than one-fifth to be traded off with distant men; and
this proportion is often greatly diminished as with increasing
population and wealth a market is made on the land for the products of
the land.

This little community forms part of a larger one, styled a nation, the
members of which are distant hundreds or thousands of miles from each
other, and here we find difficulties tending greatly to limit the
power to trade. The man in latitude 40° may have labour to sell for
which he can find no purchaser, while he who lives in latitude 50° is
at the moment grieving to see his crop perish on the ground for want
of aid in harvest. The first may have potatoes rotting, and his wagon
and horses idle, while the second may need potatoes, and have his
lumber on his hands for want of means of transportation--yet distance
forbids exchange between them.

Again, this nation forms part of a world, the inhabitants of which are
distant tens of thousands of miles from each other, and totally unable
to effect exchanges of labour, or even of commodities, except of
certain kinds that will bear transportation to distant markets.
Commerce tends, therefore, to diminish in its amount with every
circumstance tending to increase the necessity for going to a
distance, and to increase in amount with every one tending to diminish
the distance within which it must be maintained. As it now stands with
the great farming interest of the Union, the proportions are probably
as follows:--

    Exchanges in the family................... 55 per cent.
        "     in the neighbourhood............ 25     "
        "     in the nation................... 15     "
        "     with other nations..............  5     "
                                              ---
    Total.................................... 100

It will now be obvious that any law, domestic or foreign, tending to
interfere with the exchanges of the family or the neighbourhood, would
be of more serious importance than one that should, to the same
extent, affect those with the rest of the nation, and that one which
should affect the trade of one part of the nation with another, would
be more injurious than one which should tend to limit the trade with
distant nations. Japan refuses to have intercourse with either Europe
or America, yet this total interdiction of trade with a great empire
is less important to the farmers of the Union than would be the
imposition of a duty of one farthing a bushel upon the vegetable food
raised on their farms to be consumed in their families.

The great trade is the home trade, and the greater the tendency to the
performance of trade at home the more rapid will be the increase of
prosperity, and the greater the power to effect exchanges abroad. The
reason of this is to be found in the fact that the power of production
increases with the power of combined exertion, and all combination is
an exchange of labour for labour, the exchange being made at home. The
more exchanges are thus effected the smaller is the number of the men,
wagons, ships, or sailors employed in making them, and the greater the
number of persons employed in the work of production, with increase in
the quantity of commodities produced, and the _power_ to exchange
grows with the power to produce, while the power to produce diminishes
with every increase in the _necessity_ for exchange. Again, when the
work of exchange is performed at home, the power of combination
facilitates the disposal of a vast amount of labour that would
otherwise be wasted, and an infinite number of things that would
otherwise have no value whatever, but which, combined with the labour
that is saved, are quite sufficient to make one community rich by
comparison with another in which such savings cannot be effected.
Virginia wastes more labour and more commodities that would have value
in New England, than would pay five times over for all the cloth and
iron she consumes.

Again, the quantity of capital required for effecting exchanges tends
to diminish as commerce comes nearer home. The ship that goes to China
performs no more exchanges in a year than the canal-boat that trades
from city to city performs in a month; and the little and inexpensive
railroad car passing from village to village may perform almost twice
as many as the fine packet-ship that has cost ninety or a hundred
thousand dollars. With the extension of the home trade, labour and
capital become, therefore, more productive of commodities required for
the support and comfort of man, and the wages of the labourer and the
profits of the capitalist tend to increase, and commerce tends still
further to increase. On the other hand, with the diminution of the
power to effect exchanges at home, labour and capital become less
productive of commodities; the wages of the labourer and the profits
of the capitalist tend to decrease, and trade tends still further to
diminish. All this will be found fully exemplified among ourselves on
a comparison of the years 1835-36 with 1841-42, while the contrary and
upward tendency is exemplified by the years 1845-6 and 7, as compared
with 1841-2.

The fashionable doctrine of our day is, however, that the prosperity
of a nation is to be measured by the amount of its trade with people,
who are distant, as manifested by custom-house returns, and not by the
quantity of exchanges among persons who live near each other, and who
trade without the intervention of ships, and with little need of
steamboats or wagons. If the trade of a neighbourhood be closed by the
failure of a furnace or a mill, and the workman be thus deprived of
the power to trade off the labour of himself or his children, or the
farmer deprived of the power to trade off his food, consolation is
found in the increased quantity of exports--_itself, perhaps, the
direct consequence of a diminished ability to consume at home_. If
canal-boats cease to be built, the nation is deemed to be enriched by
the substitution of ocean steamers requiring fifty times the capital
for the performance of the same quantity of exchanges. If the failure
of mills and furnaces causes men to be thrown out of employment, the
remedy is to be found, not in the revisal of the measures that have
produced these effects, but in the exportation of the men themselves
to distant climes, thus producing a necessity for the permanent use of
ships instead of canal-boats, with diminished power to maintain trade,
and every increase of this _necessity_ is regarded as an evidence of
growing wealth and power.

The whole tendency of modern commercial policy is to the substitution
of the distant market for the near one. England exports her people to
Australia that they may there grow the wool that might he grown at
home more cheaply; and we export to California, by hundreds of
thousands, men who enjoy themselves in hunting gold, leaving behind
them untouched the real gold-mines--those of coal and iron--in which
their labour would be thrice more productive. The reports of a late
Secretary of the Treasury abound in suggestions as to the value of the
distant trade. Steam-ships were, he thought, needed to enable us to
obtain the control of the commerce of China and Japan. "With our front
on both oceans and the gulf," it was thought, "we might secure this
commerce, and with it, in time, command the trade of the world."
England, not to be outdone in this race for "the commerce of the
world," adds steadily to her fleet of ocean steamers, and the
government contributes its aid for their maintenance, by the payment
of enormous sums withdrawn from the people at home, and diminishing
the home market to thrice the extent that it increases the foreign
one. The latest accounts inform us of new arrangements about to be
made with a view to competition with this country for the passenger
traffic to and within the tropics, while the greatest of all trades
now left to British ships is represented to be the transport of
British men, women, and children, so heavily taxed at home for the
maintenance of this very system that they are compelled to seek an
asylum abroad. In all this there is nothing like freedom of trade, or
freedom of man; as the only real difference between the freeman and
the slave is, that the former exchanges himself, his labour and his
products, while the latter must permit another to do it for him.

Mr. McCulloch regards himself as a disciple of Adam Smith, and so does
Lord John Russell. We, too, are his disciple, but in _The Wealth of
Nations_, can find no warrant for the system advocated by either. The
system of Dr. Smith tended to the production of that natural freedom
of trade, each step toward which would have been attended with
improvement in the condition of the people, and increase in the _power
to trade_, thus affording proof conclusive of the soundness of the
doctrine; whereas every step in the direction now known as free trade
is attended with deterioration of condition, and _increased necessity_
for trade, with _diminished power_ to trade. Those who profess to be
his followers and suppose that they are carrying out his principles,
find results directly the reverse of their anticipations; and the
reason for this may readily be found in the fact that the English
school of political economists long since repudiated the whole of the
system of Dr. Smith, retaining of it little more than _the mere words_
"free trade."

The basis of all commerce is to be found in production, and therefore
it was that Dr. Smith looked upon agriculture, the science of
production, as the first pursuit of man, and manufactures and commerce
as beneficial only to the extent that they tended to aid agriculture
and increase the quantity of commodities to be converted or exchanged,
preparatory to their being consumed. He held, therefore, that the
return to labour would be greater in a trade in which exchanges could
be made once a month than in another in which they could only be made
once in a year, and he was opposed to the system then in vogue,
because it had, "in all cases," turned trade,

 "From a foreign trade of consumption with a neighbouring, into one
 with a more distant country; in many cases, from a direct foreign
 trade of consumption, into a round-about one; and in some cases, from
 all foreign trade of consumption, into a carrying trade. It has in
 all cases, therefore," he continues, "turned it from a direction in
 which it would have maintained a greater quantity of productive
 labour, into one in which it can maintain a much smaller quantity."

All this is directly the reverse of what is taught by the modern
British economists; and we have thus two distinct schools, that of
Adam Smith and that of his successors. The one taught that labour
directly applied to production was most advantageous, and that by
bringing the consumer to take his place by the side of the producer,
production and the consequent power to trade would be increased. The
other teaches, that every increase of capital or labour applied to
production must be attended with diminished return, whereas ships and
steam-engines may be increased _ad infinitum_ without such diminution:
the necessary inference from which is, that the more widely the
consumer and the producer are separated, with increased necessity for
the use of ships and engines, the more advantageously labour will be
applied, and the greater will be the power to trade. The two systems
start from a different base, and tend in an opposite direction, and
yet the modern school claims Dr. Smith as founder. While teaching a
theory of production totally different, Mr. McCulloch informs us that
"the fundamental principles on which the _production_ of wealth
depends" were established by Dr. Smith, "beyond the reach of cavil or
dispute."

The difference between the two schools may be thus illustrated: Dr.
Smith regarded commerce as forming a true pyramid, thus--

                         Exchanges abroad.
                        Exchanges at home.
                   Conversion into cloth and iron.
              Production of food and other raw materials.

This is in exact accordance with what we know to be true; but
according to the modern school, commerce forms an inverted pyramid,
thus--

                    Exchanges with distant men.
                        Exchanges at home.
                            Conversion.
                            Production.

The difference between these figures is great, but not greater than
that between two systems, the one of which regards the earth as the
great and perpetually improving machine to which the labour of man may
be profitably applied, while the other gives precedence to those very
minute and perpetually deteriorating portions of it which go to the
construction of ships, wagons, and steam-engines. An examination of
these figures will perhaps enable the reader to understand the cause
of the unsteadiness observed wherever the modern system is adopted.

       *       *       *       *       *

It will be easy now to see why it is that the commercial policy of
England has always been so diametrically opposed to that advocated by
the author of _The Wealth of Nations_. He saw clearly that the man and
the easily transported spindle should go to the food and the cotton,
and that, when once there, 'they were there for ever; whereas the
bulky food and cotton might be transported to the man and the spindle
for a thousand years, and that the necessity for transportation in the
thousand and first would be as great as it had been in the first; and
that the more transportation was needed, the less food and cloth would
fall to the share of both producer and consumer. His countrymen denied
the truth of this, and from that day to the present they have
endeavoured to prevent the other nations of the world from obtaining
machinery of any kind that would enable them to obtain the aid of
those natural agents which they themselves regard as more useful than
the earth itself. "The power of water," says Mr. McCulloch--

 "And of wind, which move our machinery, support our ships, and impel
 them over the deep--the pressure of the atmosphere, and the
 elasticity of steam, which enables us to work the most powerful
 engines, are they not the spontaneous gifts of nature? Machinery is
 advantageous only because it gives us the means of pressing some of
 the powers of nature into our service, and of making them perform the
 principal part of what, we must otherwise have wholly performed
 ourselves. In navigation is it possible to doubt that the powers of
 nature--the buoyancy of the water, the impulse of the wind, and the
 polarity of the magnet--contribute fully as much as the labours of
 the sailor to waft our ships from one hemisphere to another? In
 bleaching and fermentation the whole processes are carried on by
 natural agents. And it is to the effects of heat in softening and
 melting metals, in preparing our food, and in warming our houses,
 that we owe many of our most powerful and convenient instruments, and
 that those northern climates have been made to afford a comfortable
 habitation."--_Principles_, 165.

This is all most true, but what does it prove in regard to British
policy? Has not its object been that of preventing the people of the
world from availing themselves of the vast deposites, of iron ore and
of fuel throughout the earth, and thus to deprive them of the power to
call to their aid the pressure of the atmosphere and the elasticity of
steam? Has it not looked to depriving them of all power to avail
themselves of the natural agents required in the processes of
bleaching and fermentation, in softening woods, and melting metals,
and was not that the object had in view by a distinguished statesman,
since Chancellor of England, when he said, that "the country could
well afford the losses then resulting from the exportation of
manufactured goods, as its effect would be to smother in the cradle
the manufactures of other nations?" Has not this been the object of
every movement of Great Britain since the days of Adam Smith, and does
not the following diagram represent exactly what would be the state of
affairs if she could carry into full effect her desire to become "the
workshop of the world?"


                             \British ships/
    Producers of raw materials\           / Consumers of cloth and iron
       Europe, Asia, Africa    >         <  in Europe, Asia, Africa
           America            /           \ North and South America
                             /   And rails \


Mr. McCulloch insists that agriculture is less profitable than
manufactures and trade, and his countrymen insist that all the world
outside of England shall be one great farm, leaving to England herself
the use of all the various natural agents required in manufactures and
commerce, that they may remain poor while she becomes rich. There is
in all this a degree of selfishness not to be paralleled, and
particularly when we reflect that it involves a necessity on the part
of all other nations for abstaining from those scientific pursuits
required for the development of the intellect, and which so naturally
accompany the habit of association in towns, for the purpose of
converting the food, the wool, the hides, and the timber of the farmer
into clothing and furniture for his use. It is the policy of
barbarism, and directly opposed to any advance in civilization, as
will be fully seen when we examine into its working in reference to
any particular trade or country.

The annual average production of cotton is probably seventeen hundred
millions of pounds, or less than two pounds per head for the
population of the world; and certainly not one-tenth of what would be
consumed could they find means to pay for it; and not one-tenth of
what would be good for them; and yet it is a drug, selling in India at
two and three cents per pound, and commanding here at this moment,
notwithstanding the abundance of gold, but eight or nine cents, with a
certainty that, should we again be favoured, as we were a few years
since, with a succession of large crops, it will fall to a lower point
than it ever yet has seen: a state of things that could not exist were
the people of the world to consume even one-third as much as would be
good for them. Why do they not? Why is it that India, with her hundred
millions of population, and with her domestic manufacture in a state
of ruin, consumes of British cottons to the extent of only sixteen
cents per head--or little more, probably, than a couple of yards of
cloth? To these questions an answer may perhaps be found upon an
examination of the circumstances which govern the consumption of other
commodities; for we may be quite certain that cotton obeys precisely
the same laws as sugar and coffee, wine and wheat. Such an examination
would result in showing that when a commodity is at once produced at
or near the place of growth in the form fitting it for use, the
consumption is invariably large; and that when it has to go through
many and distant hands before being consumed, it is as invariably
small. The consumption of sugar on a plantation is large; but if it
were needed that before being consumed it should be sent to Holland to
be refined, and then brought back again, we may feel well assured that
there would not be one pound consumed on any given plantation where
now there are twenty, or possibly fifty. The consumption of cotton on
the plantation is very small indeed, because, before being consumed,
'it has to be dragged through long and muddy roads to the landing,
thence carried to New Orleans, thence to Liverpool, and thence to
Manchester, after which the cloth has to be returned, the planter
receiving one bale for every five he sent away, and giving the labour
of cultivating an acre in exchange for fifty, sixty, or eighty pounds
of its product. If, now, the people who raised the cotton were free to
call to their aid the various natural agents of whose service it is
the object of the British system to deprive them, and if, therefore,
the work of converting it into cloth were performed on the ground
where it was raised, or in its neighbourhood, is it not clear that the
consumption would be largely increased? The people who made the cloth
would be the consumers of numerous things raised on the plantation
that are now wasted, while the facility of converting such things into
cloth would be a bounty on raising them; and thus, while five times
the quantity of cotton would be consumed, the real cost--that is, the
labour cost--would be less than it is for the smaller quantity now
used. So, too, in India. It may be regarded as doubtful if the
quantity of cotton to day consumed in that country is one-half what it
was half a century since--and for the reason that the number of people
now interposed between the consumer and the producer is so great. The
consumption of wine in France is enormous, whereas here there is
scarcely any consumed; and yet the apparent excess of price is not so
great as would warrant us in expecting to find so great a difference.
The real cause is not so much to be found in the excess of price,
though that is considerable, as in the mode of payment. A peasant in
France obtains wine in exchange for much that would be wasted but for
the proximity of the wine-vat, and the demand it makes for the labour
of himself and others. He raises milk, eggs, and chickens, and he has
fruit, cabbages, potatoes, or turnips, commodities that from their
bulky or perishable nature cannot be sent to a distance, but can be
exchanged at home. The farmer of Ohio cannot exchange his spare
labour, or that of his horses, for wine, nor can he pay for it in
peaches or strawberries, of which the yield of an acre might produce
him hundreds of dollars--nor in potatoes or turnips, of which he can
obtain hundreds of bushels; but he must pay in wheat, of which an acre
yields him a dozen bushels, one-half of which are eaten up in the
process of exchange between him and the wine-grower. Whenever the
culture of the grape shall come to be established in that State, and
wine shall be made at home, it will be found that the _gallons_
consumed will be almost as numerous as are now the _drops_. Look where
we may, we shall find the same result. Wherever the consumer and the
producer are brought into close connection with each other, the
increase of consumption is wonderful, even where there is no reduction
in the nominal price; and wherever they are separated, the diminution
of consumption is equally wonderful, even where there is a reduction
of the nominal price--and it is so because the facility of exchange
diminishes as the distance increases. A man who has even a single
hour's labour to spare may exchange it with his neighbour for as much
cotton cloth as would make a shirt; but if the labour market is
distant, he may, and will, waste daily as much time as would buy him a
whole piece of cotton cloth, and may have to go shirtless while cotton
is a drug. When the labour market is near, land acquires value and men
become rich and free. When it is distant, land is of little value and
men continue poor and enslaved.

Before proceeding further, it would be well for the reader to look
around his own neighbourhood, and see how many exchanges are even now
made that could not be made by people that were separated even ten or
twenty miles from each other, and how many conveniences and comforts
are enjoyed in exchange for both labour and commodities that would be
wasted but for the existence of direct intercourse between the
parties--and, then to satisfy himself if the same law which may be
deduced from the small facts of a village neighbourhood, will not be
found equally applicable to the great ones of larger communities.

Having reflected upon these things, let him next look at the present
condition of the cotton trade, and remark the fact that scarcely any
of the wool produced is consumed without first travelling thousands of
miles, and passing through almost hundreds of hands. The places of
production are India, Egypt, Brazil, the West Indies, and our Southern
States. In the first, the manufacture is in a state of ruin. In the
second, third, and fourth, it has never been permitted to have an
existence; and in the last it has but recently made an effort to
struggle into life, but from month to month we hear of the stoppage or
destruction of Southern mills, and the day is apparently now not far
distant when we shall have again to say that no portion of the cotton
crop can be consumed in the cotton-growing region until after it shall
have travelled thousands of miles in quest of hands to convert it into
cloth.

Why is this? Why is it that the light and easily transported spindle
and loom are not placed in and about the cotton fields? The planters
have labour, _that is now wasted_, that would be abundant for the
conversion of half their crops, if they could but bring the machinery
to the land, instead of taking the produce of the land to the
machinery. Once brought there, it would be there for ever; whereas,
let them carry the cotton to the spindle as long as they may, the work
must still be repeated. Again, why is it that the people of India, to
whom the world was so long indebted for all its cotton goods, have not
only ceased to supply distant countries, but have actually ceased to
spin yarn or make cloth for themselves? Why should they carry raw
cotton on the backs of bullocks for hundreds of miles, and then send
it by sea for thousands of miles, paying freights, commissions, and
charges of all kinds to an amount so greatly exceeding the original
price, to part with sixty millions of pounds of raw material, to
receive in exchange eight or ten millions of pounds of cloth and yarn?
Is it not clear that the labour of converting the cotton into yarn is
not one-quarter as great as was the labour of raising, the cotton
itself? Nevertheless, we here see them giving six or eight pounds of
cotton for probably a single one of yarn, while labour unemployed
abounds throughout India. Further, Brazil raises cotton, and she has
spare labour, and yet she sends her cotton to look for the spindle,
instead of bringing the spindle to look for the cotton, as she might
so readily do. Why does she so? The answer to these questions is to be
found in British legislation, founded on the idea that the mode of
securing to the people of England the highest prosperity is to deprive
all mankind, outside of her own limits, of the power to mine coal,
make iron, construct machinery, or use steam, in aid of their efforts
to obtain food, clothing, or any other of the necessaries of life.
This system is directly opposed to that advocated by Adam Smith. Not
only, said he, is it injurious to other nations, but it must be
injurious to yourselves, for it will diminish the productiveness of
both labour and capital, and will, at the same time, render you daily
more and more dependent upon the operations of other countries, when
you should be becoming more independent of them. His warnings were
then, as they are now, unheeded; and from his day to the present,
England has been engaged in an incessant effort utterly to destroy the
manufactures of India, and to _crush every attempt elsewhere to
establish any competition with her for the purchase of cotton_. The
reader will determine for himself if this is not a true picture of the
operations of the last seventy years. If it is, let him next determine
if the tendency of the system is not that of enslaving the producers
of cotton, white, brown, and black, and compelling them to carry all
their wool to a single market, in which one set of masters dictates
the price at which they _must_ sell the raw material and _must_ buy
the manufactured one. Could there be a greater tyranny than this?

To fully understand the working of the system in diminishing the power
to consume, let us apply elsewhere the same principle, placing in
Rochester, on the Falls of the Genesee, a set of corn-millers who had
contrived so effectually to crush all attempts to establish mills in
other parts of the Middle States, that no man could eat bread that had
not travelled up to that place in its most bulky form, coming back in
its most compact one, leaving at the mill all the refuse that might
have been applied to the fattening of hogs and cattle--and let us
suppose that the diagram on the following page represented the corn
trade of that portion of the Union.


                       \  Wagons and   /
    Producers of food   \             / Consumers of food
      in those states    >           <  in those states
                        /             \ 
                       /Rochester mills\


Now, suppose all the grain of half a dozen States had to make its way
through such a narrow passage as is above indicated, is it not clear
that the owners of roads, wagons, and mills would be masters of the
owners of land? Is it not clear that the larger the crops the higher
would be freights, and the larger the charge for the use of mills, the
smaller would be the price of a bushel of wheat as compared with that
of a bag of meal? Would not the farmers find themselves to be mere
slaves to the owners of a small quantity of mill machinery? That such
would be the case, no one can even for a moment doubt--nor is it at
all susceptible of doubt that the establishment of such a system would
diminish by one-half the consumption of food, throughout those States,
and also the power to produce it, for all the refuse would be fed at
and near Rochester, and the manure yielded by it would be totally lost
to the farmer who raised the food. The value of both labour and land
would thus be greatly diminished. Admitting, for a moment, that such a
system existed, what would be the remedy? Would it not be found in an
effort to break down the monopoly, and thus to establish among the
people the power to trade among themselves without paying, toll to the
millers of Rochester? Assuredly it would; and to that end they would
be seen uniting among themselves to induce millers to come and settle
among them, precisely as we see men every where uniting to bring
schools and colleges to their neighbourhood, well assured that a small
present outlay is soon made up, even in a pecuniary point of view, in
being enabled to keep their children at home while being educated,
instead of sending them abroad, there to be boarded and lodged, while
food is wasted at home that they might eat, and chambers are empty
that they might occupy. Education thus obtained costs a parent almost
literally nothing, while that for which a child must go to a distance
is so costly that few can obtain it. Precisely so is it with food and
with cloth. The mere labour of converting grain into flour is as
nothing when compared with that required for its transportation
hundreds of miles; and the mere labour required for the conversion of
cotton into cloth is as nothing compared with the charges attendant
upon its transportation from the plantation to Manchester and back
again. Commercial centralization looks, however, to compelling the
planter to pay treble the cost of conversion, in the wages and profits
of the people employed in transporting and exchanging the cotton.

Admitting that the grain and flour trade were thus centralized, what
would be the effect of a succession of large crops, or even of a
single one? Would not the roads be covered with wagons whenever they
were passable, and even at times when, they were almost impassable?
Would not every one be anxious to anticipate the apprehended fall of
prices by being early in the market? Would not freights be high? Would
not the farmer, on his arrival in Rochester, find that every
store-house was filled to overflowing? Would not storage be high?
Would he not approach the miller, cap in hand, and would not the
latter receive him with his hat on his head? Assuredly such would be
the case, and he would hear everywhere of the astonishing extent of
"the surplus"--of how rapidly production was exceeding consumption--of
the length of time his grain must remain on hand before it could be
ground--of the low price of flour, &c. &c.;--and the result would be
that the more grain carried to market the less would be carried back,
and _the less he would be able to consume_; and at last he would
arrive at the conclusion that the only effect of large crops granted
him by the bounty of Heaven was that of enriching the miller at his
expense, by compelling him to allow more toll for the privilege of
creeping through the hole provided for him by the miller. He would
pray for droughts and freshets--for storms and frosts--as the only
means of escape from ruin.

The reader may determine for himself if this is not a fair picture of
the cotton trade? Do the planters profit by good crops? Assuredly not.
The more they send to market the less they receive for it. Do they
profit by improvements in the transportation of their commodity?
Certainly not. With the growth of railroads, cotton has fallen in
price, and will not this day command on the plantation near as much,
per pound, as it did before the railroad was invented. In India, the
cost of transportation from the place of production to England has
fallen in the last forty years sevenpence,[142] and yet the grower of
cotton obtains for it one-third less than he did before--receiving now
little more than two cents, when before he had from three to four. Who
profits by the reduction of cost of transportation and conversion?
_The man who keeps the toll-gate through which it passes to the
world_, and who opens it only gradually, so as to permit the increased
quantity to pass through slowly, paying largely for the privilege.
That all this is perfectly in accordance with the facts of the ease
must be obvious to every reader. The planter becomes rich when crops
are short, but then the mill-owner makes but little profit. He is
almost ruined when crops are large, but then it is that the mill-owner
is enriched--and thus it is that the system produces universal
discord, whereas under a natural system there would be as perfect
harmony of national, as there is of individual interests.

We may now inquire how this would affect the farmers around Rochester.
The consumption of the Middle States would be largely diminished
because of the heavy expense of transporting the wheat to mill and the
flour back again, and this would cause a great increase of the surplus
for which a market must be elsewhere found. This, of course, would
reduce prices, and prevent increase, if it did not produce large
diminution in the value of land. The millers would become
_millionaires_--great men among their poorer neighbours--and they
would purchase large farms to be managed by great farmers, and fine
houses surrounded by large pleasure-grounds. Land would become
everywhere more and more consolidated, because people who could do so
would fly from a country in which such a tyranny existed. The demand
for labour would diminish as the smaller properties became absorbed.
Rochester itself would grow, because it would be filled with cheap
labour from the country, seeking employment, and because there would
be great numbers of wagoners and their horses to be cared for, while
porters innumerable would be engaged in carrying wheat in one
direction and flour in another. Hotels would grow large, thieves and
prostitutes would abound, and morals would decline. From year to year
the millers would become greater men, and the farmers and labourers
smaller men, and step by step all would find themselves becoming
slaves to the caprices of the owners of a little machinery, the whole
cost of which would scarcely exceed _the daily loss_ resulting from
the existence of the system. By degrees, the vices of the slave would
become more and more apparent. Intemperance would grow, and education
would diminish, as the people of the surrounding country became more
dependent on the millers for food and clothing in exchange for cheap
grain and cheaper labour. The smaller towns would everywhere decline,
and from day to day the millers would find it more easy so to direct
the affairs of the community as to secure a continuance of their
monopoly. Local newspapers would pass away, and in their stead the
people throughout the country would be supplied with the Rochester
_Times_, which would assure the farmers that cheap food tended to
produce cheaper labour, and the land-owners that if they did not
obtain high rents it was their own fault, the defect being in their
own bad cultivation--and the more rapid the augmentation of the
millers' fortunes, and of the extent of their pleasure-grounds, the
greater, they would be assured, must be the prosperity of the whole
people; even although the same paper might find itself obliged to
inform its readers that the overgrown capital presented it as

 "A strange result of the terrible statistics of society, that there
 was upon an average one person out of twenty of the inhabitants of
 the luxurious metropolis every day destitute of food and employment,
 and every night without a place for shelter or repose?"--London
 _Times_.

We have here slavery at home as a consequence of the determination, to
subject to slavery people abroad. With each step in the growth of the
millers' fortunes, and of the splendour of their residences, land
would have become consolidated and production would have diminished,
and the whole population would have tended more and more to become a
mass of mere traders, producing nothing themselves, but buying cheaply
and selling dearly, and thus deriving their support from the exercise
of the power to tax the unfortunate people forced to trade with them;
a state of things in the highest degree adverse to moral,
intellectual, or political improvement.

The reader may now turn to the extracts from Mr. McCulloch's works
already given, (page 240 _ante_,) and compare with them this view of
the effects of supposed commercial centralization on this side of the
Atlantic. Doing so, he will find it there stated that it is to the
consolidation of the land, and to the luxury of the style of living of
the great landlords, surrounded, as they, "in most cases" are, by
"poor and needy dependants," whose necessities finally compel them to
seek in large cities a market for their own labour, and that of their
wives and children, that we are to look for an augmentation of "the
mass of wealth and the scale of enjoyment!" Modern British political
economy holds no single idea that is in harmony with the real
doctrines of Adam Smith, and yet it claims him as its head!

       *       *       *       *       *

The reader is requested now to remark--

I. That the system of commercial centralization sought to be
established by Great Britain is precisely similar to the one here
ascribed to the millers of Rochester, with the difference only, that
it has for its object to compel all descriptions of raw produce to
pass through England on its way from the consumer and the producer,
even when the latter are near neighbours to each other, and England
distant many thousand of miles from both.

II. That to carry out that system it was required that all other
nations should be prevented from obtaining either the knowledge or the
machinery required for enabling them cheaply to mine coal, smelt iron
ore, or manufacture machines by aid of which they could command the
services of the great natural agents whose value to man is so well
described by Mr. McCulloch. (See page 249 _ante_.)

III. That this was at first accomplished by means of prohibitions, and
that it is now maintained by the most strenuous efforts for cheapening
labour, and thus depriving the labourer at home of the power to
determine for whom he will work or what shall be his wages.

IV. That the more perfectly this system can be carried out, the more
entirely must all other nations limit themselves, men, women and
children, to the labour of the field, and the lower must be the
standard of intellect.

V. That while the number of agriculturists in other countries must
thus be increased, the power to consume their own products must be
diminished, because of the great increase of the charges between the
producer and the consumer.

VI. That this, in turn, must be attended with an increase in the
quantity of food and other raw materials thrown on the market of
Britain, with great increase in the competition between the foreign
and domestic producers for the possession of that market, and great
diminution of prices.

VII. That this tends necessarily to "discourage agriculture" in
Britain, and to prevent the application of labour to the improvement
of the land.

VIII. That it likewise tends to the deterioration of the condition of
the foreign agriculturist, who is thus deprived of the power to
improve his land, or to increase the quantity of his products.

IX. That the smaller the quantity of commodities produced, the less
must be the power to pay for labour, and the less the competition for
the purchase of the labourer's services.

X. That with the decline in the demand for labour, the less must be
the power of consumption on the part of the labourer, the greater must
be the tendency to a glut of foreign and domestic produce, in the
general market of the world, and the greater the tendency to a further
diminution of the labourer's reward.

XI. That, the greater the quantity of raw produce seeking to pass
through the market of England, the greater must be the tendency to a
decline in the value of English land, and the larger the charges of
the owners of the mills, ships, and shops, through which the produce
must pass, and the greater their power of accumulation, at the cost of
both labour and land.

XII. That the less the labour applied to the improvement of the soil,
the more must the population of the country be driven from off the
land, the greater must be the tendency of the latter toward
consolidation, and the greater the tendency toward absenteeism and the
substitution of great farmers and day-labourers for small proprietors,
with further decline in production and in the demand for labour.

XIII. That with the reduction of the country population, local places
of exchange must pass away; and that labour and land must decline in
power as ships, mills, and their owners become more united and more
powerful.

XIV. That the tendency of the whole system is, therefore, toward
diminishing the value and the power of land, and toward rendering the
labourer a mere slave to the trading community, which obtains from day
to day more and more the power to impose taxes at its pleasure, and to
centralize in its own hands the direction of the affairs of the
nation; to the destruction of local self-government, and to the
deterioration of the physical, moral, intellectual, and political
condition of the people.

In accordance with these views, an examination of the productive power
of the United Kingdom should result in showing that production has not
kept pace with population; and that such had been the ease we should
be disposed to infer from the increasing demand for cheap labour, and
from the decline that has unquestionably taken place in the control of
the labourer over his own operations. That the facts are in accordance
with this inference the reader may perhaps be disposed to admit after
having examined carefully the following figures.

In 1815, now thirty-eight years since, the declared value of the
exports of the United Kingdom, of British produce and manufacture, was
as follows:--

    Of woollen manufactures............... £9,381,426
     " cotton       "      ............... 20,620,000
     " silk         "      ...............    622,118
     " linen        "      ...............  1,777,563
    And of other commodities.............. 19,231,684
                                           ----------
    Total................................. 51,632,791

In the same year there were imported of

    Wool.................................. 13,634,000 lbs.
    Cotton................................ 99,306,000  "
    Silk..................................  1,807,000  "
    Flax.................................. 41,000,000  "
    Grain.................................    267,000 qrs.
    Flour.................................    202,000 cwts.
    Butter................................    125,000  "
    Cheese................................    106,000  "

If to the raw cotton, wool, silk, and flax that were re-exported in a
manufactured state, and to the dyeing materials and other articles
required for their manufacture, we now add the whole foreign food, as
above shown, we can scarcely make, of foreign commodities re-exported,
an amount exceeding twelve, or at most thirteen millions, leaving
thirty-eight millions as the value of the British produce exported in
that year; and this divided among the people of the United Kingdom
would give nearly £2 per head.

In 1851 the exports, were as follows:--

    Manufactures of wool.................... £10,314,000
      "             cotton..................  30,078,000
      "             silk....................   1,329,000
      "             flax....................   5,048,000
    All other commodities...................  21,723,569
                                             -----------
    Total................................... £68,492,569

We see thus that nearly the whole increase that had taken place in the
long period of thirty-six years was to be found in four branches of
manufacture, the materials of which were wholly drawn from abroad, as
is shown in the following statement of imports for that year:--

    Wool....................................  83,000,000 lbs.
    Cotton.................................. 700,000,000  "
    Silk....................................   5,020,000  "
    Flax.................................... 135,000,000  "
    Eggs.................................... 115,000,000  "
    Oxen, cows, calves, sheep, hogs, &c.....     300,000  "
    Corn....................................   8,147,675 qrs.
    Flour...................................   5,384,552 cwts.
    Potatoes................................     635,000  "
    Provisions..............................     450,000  "
    Butter..................................     354,000  "
    Cheese..................................     338,000  "
    Hams and lard...........................     130,000  "

The wool imported was more than was required to produce the cloth
exported, and from this it follows that the whole export represented
foreign wool. The cotton, silk, flax, dyeing-materials, &c. exported
were all foreign, and the food imported was adequate, or nearly so, to
feed the people who produced the goods exported. Such being the case,
it would follow that the total exports of British and Irish produce
could scarcely have amounted to even £15,000,000, and it certainly
could not have exceeded that sum--and that would give about 10s. per
head, or one-fourth as much as in 1815.

The difference between the two periods is precisely the same as that
between the farmer and the shoemaker. The man who, by the labour of
himself and sons, is enabled to send to market the equivalent of a
thousand bushels of wheat, has first _fed himself and them_, and
therefore he has _the whole proceeds_ of his sales to apply to the
purchase of clothing, furniture, or books, or to add to his capital.
His neighbour buys food and leather, and sells shoes. He _has been
fed_, and the first appropriation to be made of the proceeds of his
sales is to buy more food and leather; and all he has to apply to
other purposes is _the difference_ between the price at which he buys
and that at which he sells. Admitting that difference to be one-sixth,
it would follow that his sales must be six times as large to enable
him to have the same value to be applied to the purchase of other
commodities than food, or to the increase of his capital. Another
neighbour buys and sells wheat, or shoes, at a commission of five per
cent., out of which he has _to be fed_. To enable him to have an
amount of gross commissions equal to the farmer's sales, he must do
twenty times as much business; and if, we allow one-half of it for the
purchase of food, he must do forty times as much to enable him to have
the same amount with which to purchase other commodities, or to
increase his capital. Precisely so is it with a nation. When it sells
its own food and leather, _it has fed itself_, and may dispose as it
will of the whole amount of sales. When it buys food and leather, and
sells shoes, _it has been fed_, and must first pay the producers of
those commodities; and all that it can appropriate to the purchase of
clothing or furniture, or to the increase, of its capital, is the
_difference_; and, to enable it to have the same amount to be so
applied, it must sell six times as much in value. When it acts as a
mere buyer and seller of sugar, cotton, cloth, or shoes, it has _to be
fed_ out of the differences, and then it may require forty times the
amount of sales to yield the same result.

  These things being understood, we may now compare the two
  years above referred to. In the first, 1815, the sales of
  domestic produce amounted to.................... £38,600,000

  And if to this we add the difference on
  £13,000,000.....................................   2,166,667
                                                   -----------
  We obtain the amount, applicable to the purchase
  of other commodities than food.................  £40,766,667

  In the second, 1851, the sales of domestic produce
  were ........................................... £15,000,000
  To which add differences on £53,492,000, say....   9,000,000
                                                    ----------
  We have, as applicable to other purposes than the
  purchase of food...............................  £24,000,000

Divided among the population, of those years, it gives £2 per head in
the first, and 16s. in the other; but even this, great as it is, does
not represent in its full extent the decline that has taken place. The
smaller the change of form made in the commodity imported before
exporting it, the more nearly does the business resemble that of the
mere trader, and the larger must be the quantity of merchandise
passing, to leave behind the same result. In 1815, the export of yarn
of any kind was trivial, because other countries were then unprovided
with looms. In 1851 the export of mere yarn, upon which the
expenditure of British labour had been only that of twisting it, was
as follows:--

    Cotton.................................. 144,000,000 lbs.
    Linen...................................  19,000,000  "
    Silk....................................     390,000  "
    Woollen.................................  14,800,000  "

The reader will readily perceive that in all these cases the foreign
raw material bears a much larger proportion to the value than would
have been the case had the exports taken place in the form of cloth.
An examination of these facts can scarcely fail to satisfy him how
deceptive are any calculations based upon statements of the amount of
exports and imports; and yet it is to them we are always referred for
evidence of the growing prosperity of England. With every year there
must be an increasing tendency in the same direction, as the
manufacturers of India are more and more compelled to depend on
England for yarn, and as the nations of Europe become more and more
enabled to shut out cloth and limit their imports to yarn. From
producer, England has become, or is rapidly becoming, a mere trader,
and trade has not grown to such an extent as was required to make
amends for the change. She is therefore in the position of the man who
has substituted _a trade_ of a thousand dollars a year for _a
production_ of five hundred. In 1815, the people of the United Kingdom
had to divide among themselves, then twenty millions in number, almost
forty millions, the value of their surplus products exported to all
parts of the earth. In 1851, being nearly thirty millions in number,
they had to divide only fifteen millions, whereas had production been
maintained, it should have reached sixty millions, or almost the total
amount of exports. In place of this vast amount of _products_ for
sale, they had only the _differences_ upon an excess trade of
£40,000,000, and this can scarcely be estimated at more than eight or
ten, toward making up a deficit of forty-five millions. Such being the
facts, it will not now be difficult for the reader to understand why
it is that there is a decline in the material and moral condition of
the people.

How this state of things has been brought about is shown by the steady
diminution in the proportion of the population engaged in the work of
production. Adam Smith cautioned his countrymen that "if the whole
surplus produce of America in grain of all sorts, salt provisions, and
fish," were "forced into the market of Great Britain," it would
"interfere too much with the prosperity of our own people." He thought
it would be a "great discouragement to agriculture." And yet, from
that hour to the present, no effort has been spared to increase in all
the nations of the world the surplus of raw produce, to be poured into
the British market, and thus to produce competition between the
producers abroad and the producers at home, to the manifest injury of
both. The more the linen manufacture, or those of wool, hemp, or iron,
could be discouraged abroad, the greater was the quantity of raw
products to be sent to London and Liverpool, and the less the
inducement for applying labour to the improvement of English land. For
a time, this operation, so far as regarded food, was restrained by the
corn-laws; but now the whole system is precisely that which was
reprobated by the most profound political economist that Britain has
ever produced. Its consequences are seen in the following figures:--In
1811, the proportion of the population of England engaged in
agriculture was 35 per cent. In 1841 it had fallen to 25 per cent.,
and now it can scarcely exceed 22 per cent., and even in 1841 the
actual number was less than it had been thirty years before.[143]

Thus driven out from the land, Englishmen had to seek other
employment, while the same system was annually driving to England tens
of thousands of the poor people of Scotland and Ireland; and thus
forced competition for the sale in England of the raw products of the
earth produced competition there for the sale of labour; the result of
which is seen in the fact that agricultural wages have been from 6s.
to 9s. a week, and the labourer has become from year to year more a
slave to the caprices of his employer, whether the great farmer or the
wealthy owner of mills or furnaces. The total population of the
_United Kingdom_ dependent upon agriculture cannot be taken at more
than ten millions; and as agricultural wages cannot be estimated at a
higher average than 5s. per week, there cannot be, including the
earnings of women, more than 6s. per family; and if that be divided
among four, it gives 1s. 6d. per head, or £3 18s. per annum, and a
total amount, to be divided among ten millions of people, of 40
millions of pounds, or 192 millions of dollars. In reflecting upon
this, the reader is requested to bear in mind that it provides wages
for every week in the year, whereas throughout a considerable portion
of the United Kingdom very much of the time is unoccupied.

Cheap labour has, in every country, gone hand in hand with cheap land.
Such having been the case, it may not now be difficult to account for
the small value of land when compared with the vast advantages it
possesses in being everywhere close to a market in which to exchange
its raw products for manufactured ones, and also for manure. The
reader has seen the estimate of _M. Thunen_, one of the best
agriculturists of Germany, of the vast difference in the value of land
in Mecklenburgh close to market, as compared with that distant from
it; but he can everywhere see for himself that that which is close to
a city will command thrice as much rent as that distant twenty miles,
and ten times as much as that which is five hundred miles distant.
Now, almost the whole land of the United Kingdom is in the condition
of the best of that here described. The distances are everywhere
small, and the roads are, or ought to be, good; and yet the total
rental of land, mines, and minerals, is but £55,000,000, and this for
an area of 70 millions of acres, giving an average of only about $3.60
per acre, or $9--less than £2,--per head of the population. This is
very small indeed, and it tends to show to how great an extent the
system must have discouraged agriculture. In 1815, with a population
of only twenty millions, the rental amounted, exclusive of houses,
mines, minerals, fisheries, &c., to fifty-two and a half millions,
and the exports of the produce of British and Irish land were then
almost three times as great as they are now, with a population almost
one-half greater than it was then.

The very small value of the land of the United Kingdom, when compared
with its advantages, can be properly appreciated by the reader only
after an examination of the course of things elsewhere. The price of
food raised in this country is dependent, almost entirely, on what can
be obtained for the very small quantity sent to England. "Mark Lane,"
as it is said, "governs the world's prices." It does govern them in
New York and Philadelphia, where prices must be as much below those of
London or Liverpool as the cost of transportation, insurance, and
commissions, or there could be no export. Their prices, in turn,
govern those of Ohio and Pennsylvania, Indiana and Illinois, which
must always be as much below those of New York as the cost of getting
the produce there. If, now, we examine into the mere cost of
transporting the average produce of an acre of land from the farm to
the market of England, we shall find that it would be far more than
the average rental of English land; and yet that rental includes coal,
copper, iron, and tin mines that supply a large portion of the world.

Under such circumstances, land in this country should be of very small
value, if even of any; and yet the following facts tend to show that
the people of Massachusetts, with a population of only 994,000,
scattered over a surface of five millions of acres, with a soil so
poor that but 2,133,000 are improved, and possessed of no mines of
coal, iron, tin, lead, or copper, have, in the short period they have
occupied it, acquired rights in land equal, per acre, to those
acquired by the people of England in their fertile soils, with their
rich mines, in two thousand years. The cash value of the farms of that
State in 1850 was $109,000,000, which, _divided over the whole
surface_, would give $22 per acre, and this, at six per cent., would
yield $1.32. Add to this the difference between wages of four, six,
and eight shillings per week in the United Kingdom, and twenty or
twenty-five dollars per month in Massachusetts, and it will be found
that the return in the latter is quite equal to that in the former;
and yet the price of agricultural produce generally, is as much below
that of England as the cost of freight and commission, which alone are
greater than the whole rent of English land.

New York has thirty millions of acres, of which only twelve millions
have been in any manner improved; and those she has been steadily
exhausting, because of the absence of a market on or near the land,
such as is possessed by England. She has neither coal nor other mines
of any importance, and her factories are few in number; and yet the
cash value of farms, as returned by the Marshal, was 554 millions of
dollars, and that was certainly less than the real value. If we take
the latter at 620 millions, it will gives $50 per acre for the
improved land, or an average of $20 for all. Taking the rent at six
per cent. on $50, we obtain $3 per acre, or nearly the average of the
United Kingdom; and it would be quite reasonable to make the mines and
minerals of the latter a set-off against the land that is unimproved.

If the reader desire to understand the cause of the small value, of
English land when compared with its vast advantages, he may find it in
the following passage:--

 "Land-owners possess extensive territories which owe little or
 nothing to the hand of the improver; where undeveloped sources of
 production lie wasting and useless in the midst of the most certain
 and tempting markets of the vast consuming population of this
 country."--_Economist_, London.

 Unfortunately, however, those markets are small, while the tendency
 of the whole British system is toward converting the entire earth
 into one vast farm for their supply, and thus preventing the
 application of labour to the improvement of land at home. The
 tendency of prices, whether of land, labour, or their products, is
 toward a level, and whatever tends to lessen the price of any of
 those commodities in Ireland, India, Virginia, or Carolina, tends to
 produce the same effect in England; and we have seen that such is the
 direct tendency of English policy with regard to the land of all
 those countries. With decline in value, there must ever be a tendency
 to consolidation, and thus the policy advocated by the _Economist_
 produces the evil of which it so much and so frequently complains.

The profits of farmers are generally estimated at half the rental,
which would give for a total of rents and profits about 85 millions;
and if to this be added the wages of agricultural labour, we obtain
but about 125 millions, of which less than one-third goes to the
labourer.[144]

We have here the necessary result of consolidation of land--itself
the result of an attempt to compel the whole people of the world to
compete with each other in a single and limited market for the sale of
raw produce. With every increase of this competition, the small
proprietor has found himself less and less able to pay the taxes to
which he was subjected, and has finally been obliged to pass into the
condition of a day-labourer, to compete with the almost starving
Irishman, or the poor native of Scotland, driven into England in
search of employment; and hence have resulted the extraordinary facts
that in many parts of that country, enjoying, as it does, every
advantage except a sound system of trade, men gladly labour for six
shillings ($1.44) a week; that women labour in the fields; and that
thousands of the latter, destitute of a change of under-clothing, are
compelled to go to bed while their chemises are being washed.[145]

Driven from the land by the cheap food and cheap labour of Ireland,
the English labourer has to seek the town, and there he finds himself
at the mercy of the great manufacturer; and thus, between the
tenant-farmer on the one hand, and the large capitalist on the other,
he is ground as between the upper and the nether millstone. The result
is seen in the facts heretofore given. He loses gradually all
self-respect, and he, his wife, and his children become vagrants, and
fall on the public for support. Of the wandering life of great numbers
of these poor people some idea may be formed from the following
statement of Mr. Mayhew[146] :--

 "I happened to be in the country a little time back, and it
 astonished me to find, in a town with a population of 20,800, that no
 less than 11,000 vagabonds passed through the town in thirteen weeks.
 We have large classes known in the metropolis as the people of the
 streets."

It will, however, be said that if cheap corn tend to drive him from
employment, he has a compensation in cheaper sugar, cotton, coffee,
rum, and other foreign commodities--and such is undoubtedly the case;
but he enjoys these things at the cost of his fellow labourers, black,
white, and brown, in this country, the West Indies, India, and
elsewhere. The destruction of manufactures in this country in 1815 and
1816 drove the whole population to the raising of food, tobacco, and
cotton; and a similar operation in India drove the people of that
country to the raising of rice, indigo, sugar, and cotton, that _must_
go to the market of England, because of the diminution in the domestic
markets for labour or its products. The diminished domestic
consumption of India forces her cotton into the one great market,
there to compete with that of other countries, and to reduce their
prices. It forces the Hindoo to the Mauritius, to aid in destroying
the poor negroes of Jamaica, Cuba, and Brazil; but the more the sugar
and cotton that _must_ go to the distant market, the higher will be
the freights, the lower will be the prices, the larger will be the
British revenue, the greater will be the consumption, and the greater
will be the "prosperity" of England, but the more enslaved will be the
producers of those commodities. Competition for their sale tends to
produce low prices, and the more the people of the world, men, women,
and children, can be limited to agriculture, the greater must be the
necessity for dependence on England for cloth and iron, the higher
will be their prices, and the more wretched will be the poor labourer
everywhere.

The reader may perhaps understand the working of the system after an
examination of the following comparative prices of commodities:--

                               1815.              1852.
                               -----              -----
    England sells--
      Bar iron, per ton.... £13  5s. 0d. ..... £9   0s. 0d.
      Tin, per cwt.........   7  0   0   .....  5   2   0
      Copper    " .........   6  5   0   .....  5  10   0
      Lead      " .........   1  6   6   .....  1   4   0

    England buys--
      Cotton, per lb.......   0  1   6   .....  0   0   6
      Sugar, per cwt.......   3  0   0   .....  1   0   0

While these principal articles of raw produce have fallen to one-
third of the prices of 1815, iron, copper, tin, and lead, the
commodities that she supplies to the world, have not fallen more than
twenty-five per cent. It is more difficult to exhibit the changes of
woven goods, but that the planters are constantly giving more cotton
for less cloth will be seen on an examination of the following facts
in relation to a recent large-crop year, as compared with the course
of things but a dozen years before. From 1830 to 1835, the price of
cotton here was about eleven cents, which we may suppose to be about
what it would yield in England, free of freight and charges. In those
years our average export was about 320,000,000, yielding about
$35,000,000, and the average price of cotton cloth, per piece of 24
yards, weighing 5 lbs. 12 oz., was 7s. 10d., ($1.88,) and that of iron
£6 10s. ($31.20.) Our exports would therefore have produced, delivered
in Liverpool, 18,500,000 pieces of cloth, or about 1,100,000 tons of
iron. In 1845 and 1846, the _home consumption_ of cotton by the people
of England was almost the same quantity, say 311,000,000 pounds, and
the average price here was 6-1/2 cents, making the product
$20,000,000. The price of cloth then was 6s. 6-3/4 d., ($1.57 1/2,)
and that of iron about £10, ($48;) and the result was, that the
planters could have, for nearly the same quantity of cotton, about
12,500,000 pieces of cloth, or about 420,000 tons of iron, also
delivered in Liverpool. Dividing the return between the two
commodities, it stands thus:--

  Average from:     1830 to 1835.   1845-6.       Loss.
  -------------     -------------   -------       -----
  Cloth, pieces.... 9,250,000 ... 6,250,000 ... 3,000,000
  And iron, tons...   550,000 ...   210,000 ...   340,000

The labour required for converting cotton into cloth had been greatly
diminished, and yet the proportion, retained by the manufacturers had
greatly increased, as will now be shown:--

                              Weight of Cotton   Retained
                  Weight of     given to the      by the
                 Cotton used.     planters.    manufacturers.
                 ------------ ---------------- --------------
  1830 to 1835... 320,000,000... 110,000,000... 210,000,000
  1845 and 1846.. 311,000,000... 74,000,000.... 237,000,000

In the first period, the planter would have had 34 per cent. of his
cotton returned to him in the form of cloth, but in the second only 24
per cent. The grist miller gives the farmer from year to year a larger
proportion of the product of his grain, and thus the latter has all
the profit of every improvement. The cotton miller gives the planter
from year to year a smaller proportion of the cloth produced. The one
miller comes daily nearer to the producer. The other goes daily
farther from him, for with the increased product the surface over
which it is raised is increased.

How this operates on a large scale will now be seen on an examination
of the following facts:--

  The declared or actual _value_ of exports
  of British produce in manufactures in 1815 was.. £51,632,971
  And the _quantity_ of foreign merchandise
  retained for consumption in that year was....... £17,238,841  [147]

This shows, of course, that the prices of the raw products of the
earth were then high by comparison with those of the articles that
Great Britain had to sell.

  In 1849, the _value_ of British exports was..... £63,596,025
  And the _quantity_ of foreign merchandise
  retained for consumption was no less than....... £80,312,717

We see thus that while the value of exports had increased only
_one-fourth_, the produce received in exchange was _almost five times
greater_; and here it is that we find the effect of that _unlimited_
competition for the sale in England of the raw products of the world,
and _limited_ competition for the purchase of the manufactured ones,
which it is the object of the system to establish. The nation is
rapidly passing from the strong and independent position of one that
produces commodities for sale, into the weak and dependent one of the
mere trader who depends for his living upon the differences between
the prices at which he sells and those at which he buys--that is, upon
his power to tax the producers and consumers of the earth. It is the
most extraordinary and most universal system of taxation ever devised,
and it is carried out at the cost of weakening and enfeebling the
people of all the purely agricultural countries. The more completely
all the world, outside of England, can be rendered one great farm, in
which men, women, and children, the strong and the weak, the young and
the aged, can be reduced to field labour as the only means of support,
the larger will be the sum of those _differences_ upon which the
English people are now to so great an extent maintained, but the more
rapid will be the tendency everywhere toward barbarism and slavery.
The more, on the other hand, that the artisan can be brought to the
side of the farmer, the smaller must be the sum of these
_differences_, or taxes, and the greater will everywhere be the
tendency toward civilization and freedom; but the greater will be that
English distress which is seen always to exist when the producers of
the world obtain much cloth and iron in exchange for their sugar and
their cotton. The English system is therefore a war for the
perpetuation and extension of slavery.

On a recent occasion the Chancellor of the Exchequer congratulated the
House of Commons on the flourishing state of the revenue,
notwithstanding, that, they had

 "In ten years repealed or reduced the duties on coffee, timber,
 currants, wool, sugar, molasses, cotton wool, butter, cheese, silk
 manufactures, tallow, spirits, copper ore, oil and sperm, and an
 amazing number of other articles, which produced a small amount of
 revenue, with respect to which it is not material, and would be
 almost preposterous, that I should trouble the House in detail. It is
 sufficient for me to observe this remarkable fact, that the reduction
 of your customs duties from 1842 has been systematically continuous;
 that in 1842 you struck off nearly £1,500,000 of revenue calculated
 from the customs duties; that in 1843 you struck off £126,000; in
 1844, £279,000; in 1845, upwards of £3,500,000; in 1846, upwards of
 £1,150,000; in 1847, upwards of £343,000; in 1848, upwards of
 £578,000; in 1849, upwards of £384,000; in 1850, upwards of £331,000;
 and in 1851, upwards of £801,000--making an aggregate, in those ten
 years, of nearly £9,000,000 sterling."

The reason of all this is, that the cultivator abroad is steadily
giving more raw produce for less cloth and iron. The more exclusively
the people of India can be forced to devote themselves to the raising
of cotton and sugar, the cheaper they will be, and the larger will be
the British revenue. The more the price of corn can be diminished, the
greater will be the flight to Texas, and the cheaper will be cotton,
but the larger will be the slave trade of America, India, and Ireland;
and thus it is that the prosperity of the owners of mills and furnaces
in England is always greatest when the people of the world are
becoming most enslaved.

It may be asked, however, if this diminution of the prices of foreign
produce is not beneficial to the people of England. It is not, because
it tends to reduce the general price of labour, the commodity they
have to sell. Cheap Irish labour greatly diminishes the value of that
of England, and cheap Irish grain greatly diminishes the demand for
labour in England, while increasing the supply by forcing the Irish
people to cross the Channel. The land and labour of the world have one
common interest, and that is to give as little as possible to those
who perform the exchanges, and to those who superintend them--the
traders and the government. The latter have everywhere one common
interest, and that is to take as much as possible from the producers
and give as little as possible to the consumers, buying cheaply and
selling dearly. Like fire and water, they are excellent servants, but
very bad masters. The nearer the artisan comes to the producer of the
food and the wool, the less is the power of the middleman to impose
taxes, and the greater the power of the farmer to protect himself. The
tendency of the British system, wherever found, is to impoverish the
land-owner and the labourer, and to render both from year to year more
tributary to the owners of an amount of machinery so small that its
whole value would be paid by the weekly--if not even by the
daily--loss inflicted upon the working population of the world by the
system.[148] The more the owners of that machinery become enriched,
the more must the labourer everywhere become enslaved.

That such must necessarily be the case will be obvious to any reader
who will reflect how adverse is the system to the development of
intellect. Where all are farmers, there can be little association for
the purpose of maintaining schools, or for the exchange of ideas of
any kind. Employment being limited to the labours of the field, the
women cannot attend to the care of their children, who grow up,
necessarily, rude and barbarous; and such we see now to be the case in
the West Indies, whence schools are rapidly disappearing. In Portugal
and Turkey there is scarcely any provision for instruction, and in
India there has been a decline in that respect, the extent of which is
almost exactly measured by the age of the foreign occupation.[149] In
the Punjab, the country last acquired, men read and write, but in
Bengal and Madras they are entirely uneducated. Ireland had, seventy
years since, a public press of great efficiency, but it has almost
entirely disappeared, as has the demand for books, which before the
Union was so great as to warrant the republication of a large portion
of those that appeared in England. Scotland, too, seventy years since,
gave to the Empire many of its best writers, but she, like Ireland,
has greatly declined. How bad is the provision for education
throughout England, and how low is the standard of intellect among a
large portion of her manufacturing population, the reader has seen,
and he can estimate for himself how much there can be of the reading
of books, or newspapers among an agricultural population hired _by the
day_ at the rate of six, eight, or even nine shillings a week--and it
will, therefore not surprise him to learn that there is no daily
newspaper published out of London. It _is_, however, somewhat
extraordinary that in that city, there should be, as has recently been
stated, but a single one that is not "published at a loss." That one
circulates 40,000 copies, or more than twice the number of all the
other daily papers united. This is a most unfavourable sign, for
centralization and progress have never gone hand in hand with each
other.

The system, too, is repulsive in its character. It tends to the
production of discord among individuals and nations, and hence it is
that we see the numerous strikes and combinations of workmen,
elsewhere so little known. Abroad it is productive of war, as is now
seen in India, and as was so recently the case in China. In Ireland it
is expelling the whole population, and in Scotland it has depopulated
provinces. The vast emigration now going on, and which has reached the
enormous extent of 360,000 in a single year, bears testimony to the
fact that the repulsive power has entirely overcome the attractive
one, and that the love of home, kindred, and friends is rapidly
diminishing. How, indeed, could it be otherwise, in a country in which
labour has been so far cheapened that the leading journal assures its
readers that during a whole generation "man has been a drug, and
population a nuisance?"

The fact that such a declaration should be made, and that that and
other influential journals should rejoice in the expulsion of a whole
nation, is evidence how far an unsound system can go toward steeling
the heart against the miseries of our fellow-creatures. These poor
people do not emigrate voluntarily. They are forced to leave their
homes, precisely as is the case with the negro slave of Virginia; but
they have not, as has the slave, any certainty of being fed and
clothed at the end of the journey. Nevertheless, throughout England
there is an almost universal expression of satisfaction at the idea
that the land is being rid of what is held to be its superabundant
population; and one highly respectable journal,[150] after showing
that at the same rate Ireland would be entirely emptied in twenty-four
years, actually assures its readers that it views the process "without
either alarm or regret," and that it has no fear of the process being
"carried too far or continued too long."

We see thus, on one hand, the people of England engaged in _shutting_
in the poor people of Africa, lest they should be forced to Cuba; and,
on the other, rejoicing at evictions, as the best means of _driving
out_ the poor people of Ireland. In all this there is a total absence
of consistency; but so far as the Irish people are concerned, it is
but a natural consequence of that "unsound social philosophy," based
upon the Ricardo-Malthusian doctrine, which after having annihilated
the small land-owner and the small trader, denies that the Creator
meant that every man should find a place at his table, and sees no
more reason why a poor labourer should have any more right to be fed,
if willing to work, than the Manchester cotton-spinner should have to
find a purchaser for his cloth. "Labour," we are told, is "a
commodity," and if men _will_ marry and bring up children "to an
overstocked and expiring trade," it is for them to take the
consequences--and "_if we stand between the error and its
consequences, we stand between the evil and its cure_--if we intercept
the penalty (where it does not amount to positive death) we perpetuate
the sin."[151]

Such being the state of opinion in regard to the claims of labour, we
need scarcely be surprised to find a similar state of things in regard
to the rights of property. The act of emancipation was a great
interference with those rights. However proper it might have been
deemed to free the negroes, it was not right to cause the heaviest
portion of the loss to be borne by the few and weak planters. If
justice required the act, all should have borne their equal share of
the burden. So again in regard to Ireland, where special laws have
been passed to enable the mortgagees to sell a large portion of the
land, rendered valueless by a system that had for long years prevented
the Irishman from employing himself except in the work of cultivation.
India appears likely now to come in for its share of similar
legislation. Centralization has not there, we are told, been carried
far enough. Private rights in land, trivial even as they now are,[152]
must be annihilated. None, we are told, can be permitted "to stand
between the cultivator and the government," even if the collection of
the taxes "should render necessary so large an army of _employé_ as to
threaten the absorption of the lion's share" of them.[153] In regard
to the rights to land in England itself, one of her most distinguished
writers says that

 "When the 'sacredness of property' is talked of, it should always be
 remembered that this sacredness does not belong in the same degree to
 landed property. No man made the land. * * * The claim of the
 land-owners to the land is altogether subordinate to the general
 policy of the state. * * * Subject to this proviso (that of
 compensation) the state is at liberty to deal with landed property as
 the general interests of the community may require, even to the
 extent, if it so happen, of doing with the whole what is done with a
 part whenever a bill is passed for a railroad or a street."--_J. S.
 Mill, Principles_, book ii. chap. ii.

In regard to the disposal of property at the death of its owner, the
same author is of opinion that "a certain moderate provision, such as
is admitted to be reasonable in the case of illegitimate children, and
of younger children" is all "that parents owe to their children, and
all, therefore, which the state owes to the children of those who die
intestate." The surplus, if any, he holds "it may rightfully
appropriate to the general purposes of the community."--_Ibid_.

Extremes generally meet. From the days of Adam Smith to the present
time the policy of England has looked in the direction that led
necessarily to the impoverishment of the small land-owner, and to
the consolidation of land, and during the whole of that period we
have been told of the superior advantages of large farms and great
tenant-farmers; but now, when the injurious effects of the system
are becoming from day to day more obvious, the question of the
existence of _any right_ to land is being discussed, and we are told
that "public reasons" existed "for its being appropriated," and if
those reasons have "lost their force, the thing would be unjust."
From this to confiscation the step would not be a very great one. No
such idea certainly could exist in the mind of so enlightened a man
as Mr. Mill, who insists upon compensation; but when a whole people,
among whom the productive power is steadily diminishing as
individual fortunes become more and more colossal, are told that the
proprietors of land, great and small, receive compensation for its
use, for no other reason than that they have been enabled to possess
themselves of a monopoly of its powers, and that rent is to be
regarded as "the recompense of no sacrifice whatever," but as being
"received by those who neither labour nor put by, but merely hold
out their hands to receive the offerings of the rest of the
community,"[154] can we doubt that the day is approaching when the
right to property in land will be tested in England, as it has
elsewhere been? Assuredly not. Ricardo-Malthusianism tends directly
to what is commonly called Communism, and at that point will England
arrive, under the system which looks to the consolidation of the
land, the aggrandizement of the few, and the destruction of the
physical, moral, intellectual, and political powers of the whole
body of labourers, abroad and at home,

Where population and wealth increase together, there is always found a
growing respect for the rights of persons and property. Where they
decline, that respect diminishes; and the tendency of the whole
British politico-economical system being toward the destruction of
population and wealth at home and abroad, it tends necessarily toward
agrarianism in its worst form. That such is the tendency of things in
England we have the assurance of the London _Times_, by which, it has
recently been shown, says Mr. Kay,

 "That during the last half century, every thing has been done to
 deprive the peasant of any interest in the preservation of public
 order; of any wish to maintain the existing constitution of society;
 of all hope of raising himself in the world, or of improving his
 condition in life; of all attachment to his country; of all feelings
 of there really existing any community of interest between himself
 and the higher ranks of society; and of all consciousness that he has
 any thing to lose by political changes; and that every thing has been
 done to render him dissatisfied with his condition, envious of the
 richer classes, and discontented with the existing order of things.

 "The labourer," he continues "has no longer any connection with the
 land which he cultivates; he has no stake in the country; he has
 nothing to lose, nothing to defend, and nothing to hope for. The word
 "cottage" has ceased to mean what it once meant--a small house
 surrounded by its little plot of land, which the inmate might
 cultivate as he pleased, for the support and gratification of his
 family and himself. The small freeholds have long since been bought
 up and merged in the great estates. Copyholds have become almost
 extinct, or have been purchased by the great land-owners. The
 commons, upon which the villagers once had the right of pasturing
 cattle for their own use, and on which, too, the games and pastimes
 of the villages were held, have followed the same course: they are
 enclosed, and now form part of the possessions of the great
 landowners. Small holdings of every kind have, in like manner, almost
 entirely disappeared. Farms have gradually become larger and larger,
 and are now, in most parts of the country, far out of the peasant's
 reach, on account of their size, and of the amount of capital
 requisite to cultivate them. The gulf between the peasant and the
 next step in the social scale--the farmer--is widening and increasing
 day by day. The labourer is thus left without any chance of improving
 his condition. His position is one of hopeless and irremediable
 dependence. The workhouse stands near him, pointing out his dismal
 fate if he falls one step lower, and, like a grim scarecrow, warning
 him to betake himself to some more hospitable region, where he will
 find no middle-age institutions opposing his industrious
 efforts."--Vol. i. 361.

This is slavery, and it is an indication of poverty, and yet we hear
much of the wealth of England. Where, however, is it? The whole rental
of the land, houses, mills, furnaces, and mines of the United Kingdom
but little exceeds one hundred millions of pounds sterling, of which
about one-half is derived from buildings--and if we take the whole,
perishable and imperishable, at twenty years' purchase, it is but
two-thousand millions.[155] If next we add for machinery of all kinds,
ships, farming stock and implements, 600 millions,[156] we obtain a
total of only 2600 millions, or 12,500 millions of dollars, as the
whole accumulation of more than two thousand years' given to the
improvement of the land, the building of houses, towns, and
cities--and this gives but little over 400 dollars per head. Sixty
years since, New York had a population of only 340,000, and it was a
poor State, and to this hour it has no mines of any importance that
are worked. Throughout the whole period, her people have been
exhausting her soil, and the product of wheat, on lands that formerly
gave twenty-five and thirty bushels to the acre, has fallen to six or
eight,[157] and yet her houses and lands are valued at almost twelve
hundred millions of dollars, and the total value of the real and
personal estate is not less than fifteen hundred millions, or about
$500 per head--and these are the accumulations almost of the present
century.

The _apparent_ wealth of England is, however, great, and it is so for
the same reason that Rome appeared so rich in the days of Crassus and
Lucullus, surrounded by people owning nothing, when compared with the
days when Cincinnatus was surrounded by a vast body of small
proprietors. Consolidation of the land and enormous manufacturing
establishments have almost annihilated the power profitably to use
small capitals, and the consequence is that their owners are forced to
place them in saving funds, life-insurance companies, and in banks at
small interest, and by all of these they are lent out to the large
holders of land and large operators in mills, furnaces, railroads, &c.
As the land has become consolidated, it has been covered with
mortgages, and the effect of this is to double the apparent quantity
of property. While the small proprietors held it, it was assessed to
the revenue as land only. Now, it is assessed, first, as land, upon
which its owner pays a tax, and next as mortgage, upon which the
mortgagee pays the income-tax. The land-owner is thus holding his
property with other people's means, and the extent to which this is
the case throughout England is wonderfully great. Banks trade little
on their own capital, but almost entirely on that of others.[158] The
capital of the Bank of England haying been expended by the government,
it has always traded exclusively on its deposites and circulation. The
East India Company has no capital, but a very large debt, and nothing
to represent it; and the example of these great institutions is copied
by the smaller ones. Life-insurance companies abound, and the capitals
are said to be large, but "nine-tenths" of them are declared to be "in
a state of ruinous insolvency;"[159] and it is now discovered the true
mode of conducting that business is to have no capital whatsoever. The
trade of England is to a great extent based on the property of
foreigners, in the form of wool, silk, cotton, tobacco, sugar, and
other commodities, sent there for sale, and these furnish much of the
capital of her merchants. While holding this vast amount of foreign
capital, they supply iron and cloth, for which they take the bonds of
the people of other nations; and whenever the amount of these bonds
becomes too large, there comes a pressure in the money market, and the
prices of all foreign commodities are forced down, to the ruin of
their distant owners. To the absence of real capital [160] it is due
that revulsions are so frequent, and so destructive to all countries
intimately connected with her; and it is a necessary consequence of
the vast extent of trading on borrowed capital that the losses by
bankruptcy are so astonishingly great. From 1839 to 1843, a period of
profound peace, eighty-two private bankers became bankrupt; of whom
forty-six paid _no dividends_, twelve paid under twenty-five per
cent., twelve under fifty per cent., three under seventy-five per
cent., and two under one hundred per cent.; leaving seven
unascertained at the date of the report from which this statement is
derived. The last revulsion brought to light the fact that many of the
oldest and most respectable houses in London had been for years
trading entirely on credit, and without even a shilling of capital;
and in Liverpool the destruction was so universal that it was
difficult to discover more than half a dozen houses to whom a cargo
could be confided. Revulsions are a necessary consequence of such a
state of things, and at each and every one of them the small
manufacturer and the small trader or land-owner are more and more
swept away, while centralization steadily increases--and
centralization is adverse to the growth of wealth and civilization.
The whole fabric tends steadily more and more to take the form of an
inverted pyramid, that may be thus represented:--

    Ships and mills,
       L a n d,
        Labour.

In confirmation of this view we have the following facts given in a
speech of Mr. George Wilson, at a _réunion_ in Manchester, a few weeks
since:--

"In the five counties of Buckingham, Dorset, Wilts, Northampton, and
Salop, 63 members were returned by 52,921 voters, while only the same
number were returned by Lancashire and Yorkshire, with 89,669 county
and 84,612 borough voters, making a total of 174,281. So that, if they
returned members in proportion to voters alone, those five counties
could only claim 19; while, if Lancashire took their proportion, it
would be entitled to 207. There were twelve large cities or boroughs
(taking London as a double borough) returning 24 members, with 192,000
voters, and a population of 3,268,218, and 388,000 inhabited houses.
On the other side, 24 members were returned by Andover, Buckingham,
Chippenham, Cockermouth, Totnes, Harwich, Bedford, Lymington,
Marlborough, Great Marlborough, and Richmond; but they had only 3,569
voters, 67,434 inhabitants, and 1,373 inhabited houses. * * The most
timid reformer and most moderate man would hardly object to the
disfranchisement of those boroughs which had a population less than
5000, and to handing over the 20 members to those large
constituencies."

As the people of Ireland are driven from the land to London,
Liverpool, or America, the claims of that country to representation
necessarily diminish; and so with Scotland, as the Highlands and the
Isles undergo the process of wholesale clearance. The same system that
depopulates them tends to depopulate the agricultural counties of
England, and to drive their people to seek employment in the great
cities and manufacturing towns; and this, according to Mr.
McCullogh,[161] is one of the principal advantages resulting from
absenteeism. The wealthy few congregate in London, and the vast mass
of poor labourers in the lanes and alleys, the streets and the
cellars, of London and Liverpool, Birmingham and Sheffield, Manchester
and Leeds; and thus is there a daily increasing tendency toward having
the whole power over England and the world placed in the hands of the
owners of a small quantity of machinery--the same men that but a few
years since were described by Sir Robert Peel as compelling children
to work sixteen hours a day during the week, and to appropriate a part
of Sunday to cleaning the machinery--and the same that recently
resisted every attempt at regulating the hours of labour, on the
ground that all the profit resulted from the power to require "the
last hour." Many of these gentlemen are liberal, and are actuated by
the best intentions; but they have allowed themselves to be led away
by a false and pernicious theory that looks directly to the
enslavement of the human race, and are thus blinded to the
consequences of the system they advocate; but even were they right, it
could not but be dangerous to centralize nearly the whole legislative
power in a small portion of the United Kingdom, occupied by people
whose existence is almost entirely dependent on the question whether
cotton is cheap or dear, and who are liable to be thrown so entirely
under the control of their employers.

With each step in this direction, consolidation of the land tends to
increase, and there is increased necessity for "cheap labour." "The
whole question" of England's manufacturing superiority, we are told,
"has become one of a cheap and abundant supply of labour."[162] That
is, if labour can be kept down, and the labourer can be prevented from
having a choice of employers, then the system may be maintained, but
not otherwise. Where, however, the labourer has not the power of
determining for whom he will work, he is a slave; and to that
condition it is that the system tends to reduce the English people, as
it has already done with the once free men of India. Alarmed at the
idea that the present flight from England may tend to give the
labourer power to select his employer, and to have some control over
the amount of his reward, the London _Times_ suggests the expediency
of importing cheap labourers from Germany and other parts of the
continent, to aid in underworking their fellow-labourers in America
and in India.

It has been well said that, according to some political economists,
"man was made for the land, and not the land for man." In England, it
would almost seem as if he had been made for cotton mills. Such would
appear now to be the views of the _Times_, as, a quarter of a century
since, they certainly were of Mr. Huskisson. The object of all sound
political economy is that of raising the labourer, and increasing the
dignity of labour. That of the English system is to "keep labour
down," and to degrade the labourer to the condition of a mere slave;
and such is its effect everywhere--and nowhere is its tendency in that
direction more obvious than in England itself.[163]

Consolidation of land on one side and a determination to underwork the
world on the other, are producing a rapid deterioration of material
and moral condition, and, as a natural consequence, there is a steady
diminution in the power of local self-government. The diminution of
the agricultural population and the centralization of exchanges have
been attended by decay of the agricultural towns, and their remaining
people become less and less capable of performing for themselves those
duties to which their predecessors were accustomed--and hence it is
that political centralization grows so rapidly. Scarcely a session of
Parliament now passes without witnessing the creation of a new
commission for the management of the poor, the drainage of towns, the
regulation of lodging-houses, or other matters that could be better
attended to by the local authorities, were it not that the population,
is being so rapidly divided into two classes widely remote from each
other--the poor labourer and the rich absentee landlord or other
capitalist.

With the decay of the power of the people over their own actions, the
nation is gradually losing its independent position among the nations
of the earth. It is seen that the whole "prosperity" of the country
depends on the power to purchase cheap cotton, cheap sugar, and other
cheap products of the soil, and it is feared that something may
interfere to prevent the continuance of the system which maintains the
domestic slave trade of this country. We are, therefore, told by all
the English journals, that "England is far too dependent on America
for her supply of cotton. There is," says the _Daily News_, "too much
risk in relying on any one country, if we consider the climate and
seasons alone; but the risk is seriously aggravated when the country
is not our own, but is inhabited by a nation which, however friendly
on the whole, and however closely allied with us by blood and
language, has been at war with us more than once, and might possibly
some day be so again."

From month to month, and from year to year, we have the same note,
always deepening in its intensity,--and yet the dependence increases
instead of diminishing. On one day, the great prosperity of the
country is proved by the publication of a long list of new cotton
mills, and, on the next, we are told of--

 "The frightful predicament of multitudes of people whom a natural
 disaster [a short crop of cotton] denies leave to toil--who must
 work or starve, but who cannot work because the prime material of
 their work is not to be obtained in the world."--_Lawson's Merchants'
 Magazine_, Dec. 1852.

What worse slavery can we have than this? It is feared that this
country will not continue to supply cheap cotton, and it is known that
India cannot enlarge its export, and, therefore, the whole mind of
England is on the stretch to discover some new source from which it
may be derived, that may tend to increase the competition for its
sale, and reduce it lower than it even now is. At one time, it is
hoped that it may be grown in Australia--but cheap labour cannot
there be had. At another, it is recommended as expedient to encourage
its culture in Natal, (South Africa,) as there it can be grown, as we
are assured, by aid of cheap--or slave--labour, from India.[164]

It is to this feeling of growing dependence, and growing weakness,
that must be attributed the publication of passages like the
following, from the London _Times_:--

 "It used to be said that if Athens, and Lacedæmon could but make up
 their minds to be good friends and make a common cause, they would be
 masters of the world. The wealth, the science, the maritime
 enterprise, and daring ambition of the one, assisted by the
 population, the territory, the warlike spirit, and stern institutions
 of the other, could not fail to carry the whole world before them.
 That was a project hostile to the peace and prosperity of mankind,
 and ministering only to national vanity. A far grander object, of
 more easy and more honourable acquisition, lies before England and
 the United States, and all other countries owning our origin and
 speaking our language. Let them agree not in an alliance offensive
 and defensive, but simply to never go to war with one another. Let
 them permit one another to develop as Providence seems to suggest,
 and the British race will gradually and quietly attain to a
 pre-eminence beyond the reach of mere policy and arms. The vast and
 ever-increasing interchange of commodities between the several
 members of this great family, the almost daily communications now
 opened across, not one, but several oceans, the perpetual discovery
 of new means of locomotion, in which steam itself now bids fair to be
 supplanted by an equally powerful but cheaper and more convenient
 agency--all promise to unite the whole British race throughout the
 world in one social and commercial unity, more mutually beneficial
 than any contrivance of politics. Already, what does Austria gain
 from Hungary, France from Algiers, Russia from Siberia, or any
 absolute monarchy from its abject population, or what town from its
 rural suburbs, that England does not derive in a much greater degree
 from the United States, and the United States from England? What
 commercial partnership, what industrious household exhibits so direct
 an exchange of services? All that is wanted is that we should
 recognise this fact, and give it all the assistance in our power. We
 cannot be independent of one another. The attempt is more than
 unsocial; it is suicidal. Could either dispense with the labour of
 the other, it would immediately lose the reward of its own industry.
 Whether national jealousy, or the thirst for warlike enterprise, or
 the grosser appetite of commercial monopoly, attempt the separation,
 the result and the crime are the same. We are made helps meet for one
 another. Heaven has joined all who speak the British language, and
 what Heaven has joined let no man think to put asunder."

The allies of England have been Portugal and Ireland, India and the
West Indies, and what is their condition has been shown. With Turkey
she has had a most intimate connection, and that great empire is now
prostrate. What inducement can she, then, offer in consideration of an
alliance with her? The more intimate our connection, the smaller must
be the domestic market for food and cotton, the lower must be their
prices, and the larger must be the domestic slave trade, now so
rapidly increasing. Her system tends toward the enslavement of the
labourer throughout the earth, and toward the destruction everywhere
of the value of the land; and therefore it is that she needs allies.
Therefore; it is that the _Times_, a journal that but ten years since
could find no term of vituperation sufficiently strong to be applied
to the people of this country, now tells its readers that--

 "It is the prospect of these expanding and strengthening affinities
 that imparts so much interest to the mutual hospitalities shown by
 British and American citizens to the diplomatic representatives of
 the sister States."

"To give capital a fair remuneration," it was needed that "_the price
of English labour should be kept down_;" and it has been kept down to
so low a point as to have enabled the cotton mills of Manchester to
supersede the poor Hindoo in his own market, and to drive him to the
raising of cheap sugar to supply the cheap labour of England--and to
supersede the manufacturers of this country, and drive our countrymen
to the raising of cheap corn to feed the cheap labour of England,
driven out of Ireland. Cheap food next forces the exportation of
negroes from Maryland and Virginia to Alabama and Mississippi, there
to raise cheap cotton to supersede the wretched cultivator of India;
and thus, in succession, each and every part of the agricultural world
is forced into competition with every other part, and the labourers of
the world become from day to day more enslaved; and all because the
people of England are determined that the whole earth shall become one
great farm, with but a single workshop, in which shall be fixed the
prices of all its occupants have to sell or need to buy. For the first
time in the history of the world, there exists a nation whose whole
system of policy is found in the shopkeeper's maxim, Buy cheap and
sell dear; and the results are seen in the fact that that nation is
becoming from day to day less powerful and less capable of the
exercise of self-government among the community of nations. From day
to day England is more and more seen to be losing the independent
position of the farmer who sells the produce of his own labour, and
occupying more and more that of the shopkeeper, anxious to conciliate
the favour of those who have goods to sell or goods to buy; and with
each day there is increased anxiety lest there should be a change in
the feelings of the customers who bring cotton and take in exchange
cloth and iron. The records of history might be searched in vain for a
case like hers--for a nation voluntarily subjecting itself to a
process of the most exhaustive kind. They present no previous case of
a great community, abounding in men of high intelligence, rejoicing in
the diminution of the proportion of its people _capable of feeding
themselves and others_, and in the increasing proportion _requiring to
be fed_. England now exports in a year nearly 400,000 men and women
that have been raised at enormous cost,[165] and she rejoices at
receiving in exchange 300,000 infants yet to be raised. She exports
the young, and retains the aged. She sends abroad the sound, and keeps
at home the unsound. She expels the industrious, and retains the idle.
She parts with the small capitalist, but she keeps the pauper. She
sends men from her own land, and with them the commodities they must
consume while preparing for cultivation distant lands;--and all these
things are regarded as evidences of growing wealth and power. She
sends men from where they could make twelve or twenty exchanges in a
year to a distance from, which they can make but one; and this is
taken as evidence of the growth of commerce. She sends her people from
the land to become trampers in her roads, or to seek refuge in filthy
lanes and cellars; and this is hailed as tending to promote the
freedom of man. In all this, however, she is but realizing the
prophecies of Adam Smith, in relation to the determination of his
countrymen to see in foreign trade alone "England's treasure."

In all nations, ancient and modern, freedom has come with the growth
of association, and every act of association is an act of commerce.
Commerce, and freedom grow, therefore, together, and whatever tends to
lessen the one must tend equally to lessen the other. The object of
the whole British system is to destroy the power of association, for
it seeks to prevent everywhere the growth of the mechanic arts, and
without them there can be no local places of exchange, and none of
that combination so needful to material, moral, intellectual, and
political improvement. That such has been its effect in Portugal and
Turkey, the West Indies, and India, and in our Southern States, we
know--and in all of these freedom declines as the power of association
diminishes. That such has been its effect in Ireland and Scotland, the
reader has seen. In England we may see everywhere the same tendency to
prevent the existence of association, or of freedom of trade. Land,
the great instrument of production, is becoming from day to day more
consolidated. Capital, the next great instrument, is subjected to the
control of the Bank of England--an institution that has probably
caused more ruin than any other that has ever existed.[166]

Associations for banking or manufacturing purposes are restrained by a
system of responsibility that tends to prevent prudent men from taking
part in their formation. The whole tendency of the system is to fetter
and restrain the productive power; and hence it is that it has proved
necessary to establish the fact that the great Creator had made a
serious mistake in the laws regulating the increase of food and of
men, and that the _cheapened_ labourer was bound to correct the error
by repressing that natural desire for association which leads to an
increase of population. The consequences of all this are seen in the
fact that there is in that country no real freedom of commerce. There
is no competition for the purchase of labour, and the labourer is
therefore a slave to the capitalist. There is no competition for the
use of capital, and its owner is a slave to his banker, who requires
him to content himself with the smallest profits. There is scarcely
any power to sell land, for it is everywhere hedged round with
entails, jointures, and marriage settlements, that fetter and enslave
its owner. There is no competition for obtaining "maidens in
marriage," for the _Chronicle_ assures us that marriage now rarely
takes place until the cradle has become as necessary as the ring;[167]
and when that is the case, the man will always be found a tyrant and
the woman a slave. In the effort to destroy the power of association,
and the freedom of trade and of man abroad, England has in a great
degree annihilated freedom at home; and all this she has done because,
from the day of the publication of _The Wealth of Nations_, her every
movement has looked to the perpetuation of the system denounced by its
author as a "manifest violation of the most sacred rights of mankind."




CHAPTER XV.

HOW CAN SLAVERY BE EXTINGUISHED?


How can slavery be extinguished, and man be made free? This question,
as regarded England, was answered some years since by a distinguished
anti-corn-law orator, when he said that for a long time past, in that
country, two men had been seeking one master, whereas the time was
then at hand when two masters would be seeking one man. Now, we all
know that when two men desire to purchase a commodity, it rises in
value, and its owner finds himself more free to determine for himself
what to do with it than he could do if there were only one person
desiring to have it, and infinitely more free than he could be if
there were two sellers to one buyer. To make men free there must be
competition for the purchase of their services, and the more the
competition the greater must be their value, and that of the men who
have them to sell.

It has already been shown [168] that in purely agricultural
communities there can be very little competition for the purchase of
labour; and that such is the fact the reader can readily satisfy
himself by reflecting on the history of the past, or examining the
condition of man as he at present exists among the various nations of
the earth. History shows that labour has become valuable, and that man
has become free, precisely as the artisan has been enabled to take his
place by the side of the ploughman--precisely as labour has become
diversified--precisely as small towns have arisen in which the
producer of food and wool could readily exchange for cloth and
iron--precisely as manure could more readily be obtained to aid in
maintaining the productiveness of the soil--and precisely, therefore,
as men have acquired the power of associating with their fellow-men.
With the growth of that power they have everywhere been seen to obtain
increased returns from land, increased reward of labour, and increased
power to accumulate the means of making roads, establishing schools,
and doing all other things tending to the improvement of their modes
of action and their habits of thought; and thus it is that freedom of
thought, speech, action, and trade have always grown with the growth
of the value of labour and land.

It is desired to abolish the _trade_ in slaves. No such trade could
exist were men everywhere free; but as they are not so, it has in many
countries been deemed necessary to prohibit the sale of men from off
the land, as preliminary to the establishment of freedom. Nothing of
this kind, however, can now be looked for, because there exists no
power to coerce the owners of slaves to adopt any such measures; nor,
if it did exist, would it be desirable that it should he exercised, as
it would make the condition of both the slave and his master worse
than it is even now. Neither is it necessary, because there exists "a
higher law"--a great law of the Creator--that will effectually
extinguish the trade whenever it shall be permitted to come into
activity.

Why is it that men in Africa sell their fellow-men to be transported
to Cuba or Brazil? For the same reason, obviously, that other men
sell flour in Boston or Baltimore to go to Liverpool or Rio
Janeiro--because it is cheaper in the former than in the latter
cities. If, then, we desired to put a stop to the export, would not
our object be effectually accomplished by the adoption of measures
that would cause prices to be higher in Boston than in Liverpool,
and higher in Baltimore than in Rio? That such would be the case
must be admitted by all. If, then, we desired to stop the export of
negroes from Africa, would not our object be effectually and
permanently attained could we so raise the value of man in Africa
that he would be worth as muc