thing so shocking in my
life! And I must beg leave to observe, that no wager, in my opinion,
could justify such a barbarous action."


Here Lord Orville interfered, and hurried us to our carriages.


We returned in the same order we came. Mrs. Beaumont invited all
the party to dinner, and has been so obliging as to beg Miss Mirvan
may continue at her house during her stay. The Captain will lodge at
the Wells.


The first half-hour after our return was devoted to hearing Mr. Lovel's
apologies for dining in his riding-dress.


Mrs. Beaumont then, addressing herself to Miss Mirvan and me, inquired
how we liked Bath?


"I hope," said Mr. Lovel, "the ladies do not call this seeing Bath."


"No!-what should ail 'em?" cried the Captain, "do you suppose they
put their eyes in their pockets?"


"No, Sir; but I fancy you will find no person-that is-no person of
any condition-call going about a few places in a morning seeing Bath."


"Mayhap, then," said the literal Captain, "you think we should see
it better by going about at midnight?"


"No, Sir, no," said Mr. Lovel, with a supercilious smile, "I perceive
you don't understand me;-we should never call it seeing Bath, without
going at the right season."


"Why, what a plague, then," demanded he, "can you only see at one
season of the year?"


Mr. Lovel again smiled; but seemed superior to making any answer.


"The Bath amusements," said Lord Orville, "have a sameness in them,
which, after a short time, renders them rather insipid; but the
greatest objection that can be made to the place, is the encouragement
it gives to gamesters."


"Why, I hope, my Lord, you would not think of abolishing gaming,"
cried Lord Merton, "'tis the very zest of life! Devil take me if I
could live without it."


"I am sorry for it," said Lord Orville, gravely, and looking at
Lady Louisa.


"Your Lordship is no judge of this subject," continued the other;
"but if once we could get you to a gaming-table, you'd never be happy
away from it!"


"I hope, my Lord," cried Lady Louisa, "that nobody here ever occasions
your quitting it."


"Your Ladyship," said Lord Merton, recollecting himself, "has power
to make me quit any thing."


"Except herself," said Mr. Coverley. "Egad, my Lord, I think I've
helpt you out there!"


"You men of wit, Jack," answered his Lordship, "are always ready;-for
my part, I don't pretend to any talents that way."


"Really, my Lord?" asked the sarcastic Mrs. Selwyn; "well, that is
wonderful, considering success would be so much in your power."


"Pray, Ma'am," said Mr. Lovel to Lady Louisa, "has your Ladyship
heard the news?"


"News!-what news?"


"Why, the report circulating at the Wells concerning a certain person."


"O Lord, no: pray tell me what it is?"


"O no, Ma'am, I beg your La'ship will excuse me; 'tis a profound
secret, and I would not have mentioned it, if I had not thought you
knew it."


"Lord, now, how can you be so monstrous? I declare, now, you're a
provoking creature! But come, I know you'll tell me;-won't you now?"


"Your La'ship knows I am but too happy to obey you; but, 'pon honour,
I can't speak a word, if you won't all promise me the most inviolable
secrecy."


"I wish you'd wait for that from me," said the Captain, "and I'll
give you my word you'd be dumb for one while. Secrecy, quoth-a!-'Fore
George, I wonder you an't ashamed to mention such a word, when you
talk of telling it to a woman. Though, for the matter of that, I'd
as lieve blab it to the whole sex at once, as to go for to tell it
to such a thing as you."


"Such a thing as me, Sir!" said Mr. Lovel, letting fall his knife
and fork, and looking very important; "I really have not the honour
to understand your expression."


"It's all one for that," said the Captain; "you may have it explained
whenever you like it."


"'Pon honour, Sir," returned Mr. Lovel, "I must take the liberty to
tell you, that I should be extremely offended, but that I suppose
it to be some sea-phrase; and therefore I'll let it pass without
further notice."


Lord Orville, then, to change the discourse, asked Miss Mirvan if
she should spend the ensuing winter in London?


"No, to be sure," said the Captain, "what should she for? She saw
all that was to be seen before."


"Is London, then," said Mr. Lovel, smiling at Lady Louisa, "only to
be regarded as a sight?"


"Why, pray, Mr. Wiseacre, how are you pleased for to regard it
yourself?-Answer me to that."


"O Sir, my opinion, I fancy, you would hardly find intelligible. I
don't understand sea-phrases enough to define it to your
comprehension. Does not your La'ship think the task would be rather
difficult?"


"O Lard, yes," cried Lady Louisa; "I declare I'd as soon teach my
parrot to talk Welsh."


"Ha! ha! ha! Admirable;-'Pon honour, your La'ship's quite in luck
to-day; but that, indeed, your La'ship is every day. Though, to be
sure, it is but candid to acknowledge, that the gentlemen of the ocean
have a set of ideas, as well as a dialect, so opposite to our's, that
it is by no means surprising they should regard London as a mere show,
that may be seen by being looked at. Ha!  ha! ha!"


"Ha! ha!" echoed Lady Louisa; "Well, I declare you are the drollest
creature."


"He! he! 'Pon honour, I can't help laughing at the conceit of seeing
London in a few weeks!"


"And what a plague should hinder you?" cried the Captain; "do you
want to spend a day in every street?"


Here again Lady Louisa and Mr. Lovel interchanged smiles.


"Why, I warrant you, if I had the showing it, I'd haul you from
St. James's to Wapping the very first morning."


The smiles were now, with added contempt, repeated; which the Captain
observing, looked very fiercely at Mr. Lovel, and said, "Hark'ee my
spark, none of your grinning!-'tis a lingo I don't understand; and
if you give me any more of it, I shall go near to lend you a box o'
the ear."


"I protest, Sir," said Mr. Lovel, turning extremely pale, "I think
it's taking a very particular liberty with a person, to talk to one
in such a style as this!"


"It's like you may," returned the Captain: "but give a good gulp, and
I'll warrant you'll swallow it." Then, calling for a glass of ale, with
a very provoking and significant nod, he drank to his easy digestion.


Mr. Lovel made no answer, but looked extremely sullen; and, soon after,
we left the gentlemen to themselves.


I had then two letters delivered to me; one from Lady Howard and
Mrs. Mirvan, which contained the kindest congratulations; and the
other from Madame Duval;-but not a word from you,-to my no small
surprise and concern.


Madame Duval seems greatly rejoiced at my late intelligence: a violent
cold, she says, prevents her coming to Bristol. The Branghtons, she
tells me, are all well; Miss Polly is soon to be married to Mr. Brown;
but Mr. Smith has changed his lodgings, "which," she adds, "has made
the house extremely dull.  However, that's not the worst news; pardi,
I wish it was! but I've been used like nobody,-for Monsieur Du Bois
has had the baseness to go back to France without me." In conclusion,
she assures me, as you prognosticated she would, that I shall be sole
heiress of all she is worth, when Lady Orville.


At tea-time, we were joined by all the gentlemen but Captain Mirvan,
who went to the hotel where he was to sleep, and made his daughter
accompany him, to separate her trumpery, as he called it, from his
clothes.


As soon as they were gone, Mr. Lovel, who still appeared extremely
sulky, said, "I protest, I never saw such a vulgar, abusive fellow
in my life, as that Captain: 'pon honour, I believe he came here for
no purpose in the world but to pick a quarrel; however, for my part,
I vow I wo'n't humour him."


"I declare," cried Lady Louisa, "he put me in a monstrous fright;-I
never heard any body talk so shocking in my life!"


"I think," said Mrs. Selwyn, with great solemnity, "he threatened to
box your ears, Mr. Lovel;-did not he?"


"Really, Ma'am," said Mr. Lovel, colouring, "if one was to mind every
thing those low kind of people say, one should never be at rest for
one impertinence or other; so I think the best way is to be above
taking any notice of them."


"What," said Mrs. Selwyn, with the same gravity, "and so receive the
blow in silence!"


During this discourse, I heard the Captain's chaise stop at the door,
and ran downstairs to meet Maria. She was alone, and told me that
her father, who, she was sure, had some scheme in agitation against
Mr. Lovel, had sent her on before him. We continued in the parlour
till his return, and were joined by Lord Orville, who begged me not to
insist on a patience so unnatural, as submitting to be excluded our
society. And let me, my dear Sir, with a grateful heart let me own,
I never before passed half an hour in such perfect felicity.


I believe we were all sorry when the Captain returned; yet his
inward satisfaction, from however different a cause, did not seem
inferior to what our's had been. He chucked Maria under the chin,
rubbed his hands, and was scarce able to contain the fullness of his
glee. We all attended him to the drawing room; where, having composed
his countenance, without any previous attention to Mrs. Beaumont,
he marched up to Mr. Lovel, and abruptly said, "Pray, have you e'er
a brother in these here parts?"


"Me, Sir?-no, thank Heaven, I'm free from all encumbrances of that
sort."


"Well," cried the Captain, "I met a person just now so like you,
I could have sworn he had been your twin brother."


"It would have been a most singular pleasure to me," said Mr. Lovel,
"if I also could have seen him; for, really, I have not the least
notion what sort of a person I am, and I have a prodigious curiosity
to know."


Just then the Captain's servant, opening the door, said, "A little
gentleman below desires to see one Mr. Lovel."


"Beg him to walk up stairs," said Mrs. Beaumont. "But, pray what is
the reason William is out of the way?"


The man shut the door without any answer.


"I can't imagine who it is," said Mr. Lovel: "I recollect no little
gentleman of my acquaintance now at Bristol,-except, indeed the Marquis
of Charlton;-but I don't much fancy it can be him. Let me see, who
else is there so very little?"


A confused noise among the servants now drew all eyes towards the
door: the impatient Captain hastened to open it; and then, clapping
his hands, called out, "'Fore George, 'tis the same person I took
for your relation!"


And then, to the utter astonishment of every body but himself, he
hauled into the room a monkey, full-dressed, and extravagantly -e;
la mode!


The dismay of the company was almost general. Poor Mr. Lovel seemed
thunderstruck with indignation and surprise: Lady Louisa began a
scream, which for some time was incessant; Miss Mirvan and I jumped
involuntarily upon the seats of our chairs; Mrs. Beaumont herself
followed our example; Lord Orville placed himself before me as a guard;
and Mrs. Selwyn, Lord Merton, and Mr. Coverley, burst into a loud,
immoderate, ungovernable fit of laughter, in which they were joined by
the Captain, till, unable to support himself, he rolled on the floor.


The first voice which made its way through this general noise was that
of Lady Louisa, which her fright and screaming rendered extremely
shrill. "Take it away!" cried she, "take the monster away;-I shall
faint, I shall faint if you don't!"


Mr. Lovel, irritated beyond endurance, angrily demanded of the Captain
what he meant?


"Mean?" cried the Captain, as soon as he was able to speak; "why
only to shew you in your proper colours." Then rising, and pointing
to the monkey, "Why now, ladies and gentlemen, I'll be judged by you
all!-Did you ever see any thing more like?-Odds my life, if it wasn't
for this here tail, you wouldn't know one from t'other."


"Sir," cried Mr. Lovel, stamping, "I shall take a time to make you
feel my wrath."


"Come now," continued the regardless Captain, "just for the fun's sake,
doff your coat and waistcoat, and swop with Monseer Grinagain here;
and I'll warrant you'll not know yourself which is which."


"Not know myself from a monkey!-I assure you, Sir, I'm not to be used
in this manner, and I won't bear it-curse me if I will!"


"Why, hey-day!" cried the Captain, "what, is master in a passion?-well,
don't be angry:-come, he shan't hurt you;-here, shake a paw with
him:-why, he'll do you no harm, man!-come, kiss and be friends!"


"Who, I?" cried Mr. Lovel, almost mad with vexation; "as I'm a living
creature, I would not touch him for a thousand worlds!"


"Send him a challenge," cried Mr. Coverley, "and I'll be your second."


"Ay, do," said the Captain; "and I'll be second to my friend, Monseer
Clapperclaw here. Come to it at once!-tooth and nail!"


"God forbid!" cried Mr. Lovel, retreating, "I would sooner trust my
person with a mad bull!"


"I don't like the look of him myself," said Lord Merton, "for he
grins most horribly."


"Oh, I'm frightened out of my senses!" cried Lady Louisa, "take him
away, or I shall die!"


"Captain," said Lord Orville, "the ladies are alarmed; and I must
beg you would send the monkey away."


"Why, where can be the mighty harm of one monkey more than
another?" answered the Captain: "howsomever, if its agreeable to the
ladies, suppose we turn them out together?"


"What do you mean by that, Sir?" cried Mr. Lovel, lifting up his cane.


"What do you mean?" cried the Captain, fiercely, "be so good as to
down with your cane."


Poor Mr. Lovel, too much intimidated to stand his ground, yet too
much enraged to submit, turned hastily round, and, forgetful of
consequences, vented his passion by giving a furious blow to the
monkey.


The creature darting forwards, sprung instantly upon him; and,
clinging round his neck, fastened his teeth to one of his ears.


I was really sorry for the poor man; who, though an egregious fop,
had committed no offence that merited such chastisement.


It was impossible now to distinguish whose screams were loudest,
those of Mr.  Lovel, or of the terrified Lady Louisa, who I believe,
thought her own turn was approaching: but the unrelenting Captain
roared with joy.


Not so Lord Orville: ever humane, generous, and benevolent he quitted
his charge, who he saw was wholly out of danger, and seizing the monkey
by the collar, made him loosen the ear; and then with a sudden swing,
flung him out of the room, and shut the door.


Poor Mr. Lovel, almost fainting with terror, sunk upon the floor,
crying out, "Oh, I shall die, I shall die!-Oh, I'm bit to death!"


"Captain Mirvan," said Mrs. Beaumont, with no little indignation,
"I must own I don't perceive the wit of this action; and I am sorry
to have such cruelty practised in my house."


"Why Lord, Ma'am," said the Captain, when his rapture abated
sufficiently for speech, "how could I tell they'd fall out so?-By
jingo, I brought him to be a messmate for t'other."


"Egad," said Mr. Coverley, "I would not have been served so for a
thousand pounds."


"Why, then, there's the odds of it," said the Captain; "for you
see he is served so for nothing. But come," turning to Mr. Lovel,
"be of good heart, all may end well yet, and you and Monseer Longtail
be as good friends as ever."


"I'm surprised, Mrs. Beaumont," cried Mr. Lovel, starting up, "that
you can suffer a person under your roof to be treated so inhumanly."


"What argufies so many words?" said the unfeeling Captain; "it is but
a slit of the ear; it only looks as if you had been in the pillory."


"Very true," added Mrs. Selwyn; "and who knows but it may acquire
you the credit of being an anti-ministerial writer?"


"I protest," cried Mr. Lovel, looking ruefully at his dress, "my new
riding suit's all over blood!"


"Ha, ha, ha," cried the Captain, "see what comes of studying for an
hour what you shall put on!"


Mr. Lovel then walked to the glass; and, looking at the place,
exclaimed, "Oh heaven, what a monstrous wound! my ear will never be
fit to be seen again!"


"Why then," said the Captain, "you must hide it;-'tis but wearing
a wig."


"A wig!" repeated the affrighted Mr. Lovel; "I wear a wig?-no, not
if you would give me a thousand pounds an hour!"


"I declare," said Lady Louisa, "I never heard such a shocking proposal
in my life!"


Lord Orville, then, seeing no prospect that the altercation would
cease, proposed to the Captain to walk. He assented; and having given
Mr. Lovel a nod of exultation, accompanied his Lordship down stairs.


"'Pon honour," said Mr. Lovel, the moment the door was shut, "that
fellow is the greatest brute in nature! he ought not to be admitted
into a civilized society."


"Lovel," said Mr. Coverley, affecting to whisper, "you must certainly
pink him: you must not put up with such an affront."


"Sir," said Mr. Lovel, "with any common person I should not deliberate
an instant; but really with a fellow who has done nothing but fight
all his life, 'pon honour, Sir, I can't think of it!"


"Lovel," said Lord Merton, in the same voice, "you must call him
to account."


"Every man," said he, pettishly, "is the best judge of his own affairs;
and I don't ask the honour of any person's advice."


"Egad, Lovel," said Mr. Coverley, "you're in for it!-you can't possibly
be off!"


"Sir," cried he, very impatiently, "upon any proper occasion I should
be as ready to show my courage as any body; but as to fighting for
such a trifle as this-I protest I should blush to think of it!"


"A trifle!" cried Mrs. Selwyn, "good Heaven! and have you made this
astonishing riot about a trifle?"


"Ma'am," answered the poor wretch, in great confusion, "I did not
know at first but that my cheek might have been bit; but as 'tis no
worse, why, it does not a great deal signify. Mrs. Beaumont, I have
the honour to wish you a good evening; I'm sure my carriage must be
waiting." And then, very abruptly, he left the room.


What a commotion has this mischief-loving Captain raised! Were I
to remain here long, even the society of my dear Maria could scarce
compensate for the disturbances which he excites.


When he returned, and heard of the quiet exit of Mr. Lovel, his triumph
was intolerable. "I think, I think," he cried, "I have peppered him
well! I'll warrant he won't give an hour tomorrow morning to settling
what he shall put on; why, his coat," turning to me, "would be a most
excellent match for old Madame Furbelow's best Lyons silk! 'Fore
George, I'd desire no better sport than to have that there old cat
here to go her snacks!"


All the company the, Lord Orville, Miss Mirvan, and myself excepted,
played at cards; and we -oh, how much better did we pass our time!


While we were engaged in a most delightful conversation, a servant
brought me a letter, which he told me had by some accident been
mislaid. Judge of my feelings when I saw, my dearest Sir, your revered
hand-writing! My emotions soon betrayed to Lord Orville whom the
letter was from; the importance of the contents he well knew; and,
assuring me I should not be seen by the card-players, he besought me
to open it without delay.


Open it, indeed, I did-but read it I could not;-the willing, yet
awful consent you have granted-the tenderness of your expressions-the
certainty that no obstacle remained to my eternal union with the loved
owner of my heart, gave me sensations too various, and, though joyful,
too little placid for observation. Finding myself unable to proceed,
and blinded by the tears of gratitude and delight, which started into
my eyes, I gave over the attempt of reading till I retired to my own
room; and, having no voice to answer the enquiries of Lord Orville,
I put the letter into his hands, and left it to speak both for me
and itself.


Lord Orville was himself affected by your kindness: he kissed the
letter as he returned it; and, pressing my hand affectionately to
his heart, "Your are now," said he, in a low voice, "all my own! Oh,
my Evelina, how will my soul find room for its happiness?-it seems
already bursting!" I could make no reply, indeed I hardly spoke
another word the rest of the evening; so little talkative is the
fulness of contentment.


O, my dearest Sir, the thankfulness of my heart I must pour forth at
our meeting, when, at your feet, my happiness receives its confirmation
from your blessing; and when my noble-minded, my beloved Lord Orville,
presents to you the highly-honoured, and thrice-happy Evelina.


A few lines I will endeavour to write on Thursday, which shall be
sent off express, to give you, should nothing intervene, yet more
certain assurance of our meeting.


Now then, therefore, for the first-and probably the last time I
shall ever own the name, permit me to sign myself, Most dear Sir,
your gratefully affectionate, EVELINA BELMONT.


Lady Louisa, at her own particular desire, will be present at the
ceremony, as well as Miss Mirvan and Mrs. Selwyn: Mr. Macartney will,
the same morning, be united to my foster-sister; and my father himself
will give us both away.


LETTER LXXXIII.

MR. VILLARS TO EVELINA.


EVERY wish of my soul is now fulfilled-for the felicity of my Evelina
is equal to her worthiness!


Yes, my child, thy happiness is engraved in golden characters upon
the tablets of my heart; and their impression is indelible: for,
should the rude and deep-searching hand of Misfortune attempt to
pluck them from their repository, the fleeting fabric of life would
give way; and in tearing from my vitals the nourishment by which they
are supported, she would but grasp at a shadow insensible to her touch.


Give thee my consent?-Oh thou joy, comfort, and pride of my life, how
cold is that word to express the fervency of my approbation! Yes, I do
indeed give thee my consent; and so thankfully, that, with the humblest
gratitude to Providence, I would seal it with the remnant of my days.


Hasten then, my love, to bless me with thy presence, and to receive
the blessings with which my fond heart overflows!-And oh, my Evelina,
hear and assist in one only, humble, but ardent prayer, which yet
animates my devotions: That the height of bliss to which thou art
rising may not render thee giddy, but that the purity of thy mind may
form the brightest splendour of thy prosperity!-and that the weak
and aged frame of thy almost idolizing parent, nearly worn out by
time, past afflictions, and infirmities, may yet be able to sustain
a meeting with all its better part holds dear; and then, that all the
wounds which the former severity of fortune inflicted, may be healed
and purified by the ultimate consolation of pouring forth my dying
words in blessings on my child!-closing these joy-streaming eyes in
her presence, and breathing my last faint sighs in her loved arms!


Grieve not, oh child of my care! Grieve not at the inevitable
moment! but may thy own end be equally propitious! Oh, may'st thou,
when full of days, and full of honour, sink down as gently to rest!-be
loved as kindly, watched as tenderly, as thy happy father! And mayest
thou, when thy glass is run, be sweetly, but not bitterly, mourned by
some remaining darling of thy affections-some yet surviving Evelina!
ARTHUR VILLARS.


LETTER LXXXIV.

EVELINA TO THE REV. MR. VILLARS.


ALL is over, my dearest Sir; and the fate of your Evelina is
decided! This morning, with fearful joy and trembling gratitude,
she united herself for ever with the object of her dearest, her
eternal affection.


I have time for no more; the chaise now waits which is to conduct
me to dear Berry Hill, and to the arms of the best of men.  EVELINA.
THE END.









This eBook was produced by David Moynihan, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.



WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS

JAMES M. BARRIE



ACT I

(James Wylie is about to make a move on the dambrod, and in the
little Scotch room there is an awful silence befitting the occasion.
James with his hand poised--for if he touches a piece he has to play
it, Alick will see to that--raises his red head suddenly to read
Alick's face. His father, who is Alick, is pretending to be in a
panic lest James should make this move. James grins heartlessly, and
his fingers are about to close on the 'man' when some instinct of
self-preservation makes him peep once more. This time Alick is
caught: the unholy ecstasy on his face tells as plain as porridge
that he has been luring James to destruction. James glares; and, too
late, his opponent is a simple old father again. James mops his head,
sprawls in the manner most conducive to thought in the Wylie family,
and, protruding his underlip, settles down to a reconsideration of
the board. Alick blows out his cheeks, and a drop of water settles on
the point of his nose.

You will find them thus any Saturday night (after family worship,
which sends the servant to bed); and sometimes the pauses are so long
that in the end they forget whose move it is.

It is not the room you would be shown into if you were calling
socially on Miss Wylie. The drawing-room for you, and Miss Wylie in a
coloured merino to receive you; very likely she would exclaim, "This
is a pleasant surprise!" though she has seen you coming up the avenue
and has just had time to whip the dustcloths off the chairs, and to
warn Alick, David and James, that they had better not dare come in to
see you before they have put on a dickey. Nor is this the room in
which you would dine in sollemn grandeur if invited to drop in and
take pot-luck, which is how the Wylies invite, it being a family
weakness to pretend that they sit down in the dining-room daily. It
is the real living-room of the house, where Alick, who will never get
used to fashionable ways, can take off his collar and sit happily in
his stocking soles, and James at times would do so also; but catch
Maggie letting him.

There is one very fine chair, but, heavens, not for sitting on; just
to give the room a social standing in an emergency. It sneers at the
other chairs with an air of insolent superiority, like a haughty
bride who has married into the house for money. Otherwise the
furniture is homely; most of it has come from that smaller house
where the Wylies began. There is the large and shiny chair which can
be turned into a bed if you look the other way for a moment. James
cannot sit on this chair without gradually sliding down it till he is
lying luxuriously on the small of his back, his legs indicating, like
the hands of a clock, that it is ten past twelve; a position in which
Maggie shudders to see him receiving company.

The other chairs are horse-hair, than which nothing is more
comfortable if there be a good slit down the seat. The seats are
heavily dented, because all the Wylie family sit down with a dump.
The draught-board is on the edge of a large centre table, which also
displays four books placed at equal distances from each other, one of
them a Bible, and another the family album. If these were the only
books they would not justify Maggie in calling this chamber the
library, her dogged name for it; while David and James call it the
west-room and Alick calls it 'the room,' which is to him the natural
name for any apartment without a bed in it. There is a bookcase of
pitch pine, which contains six hundred books, with glass doors to
prevent your getting at them.

No one does try to get at the books, for the Wylies are not a reading
family. They like you to gasp when you see so much literature
gathered together in one prison-house, but they gasp themselves at
the thought that there are persons, chiefly clergymen, who, having
finished one book, coolly begin another. Nevertheless it was not all
vainglory that made David buy this library: it was rather a mighty
respect for education, as something that he has missed. This same
feeling makes him take in the Contemporary Review and stand up to it
like a man. Alick, who also has a respect for education, tries to
read the Contemporary, but becomes dispirited, and may be heard
muttering over its pages, 'No, no use, no use, no,' and sometimes
even 'Oh hell.' James has no respect for education; and Maggie is at
present of an open mind.

They are Wylie and Sons of the local granite quarry, in which Alick
was throughout his working days a mason. It is David who has raised
them to this position; he climbed up himself step by step (and hewed
the steps), and drew the others up after him. 'Wylie Brothers,' Alick
would have had the firm called, but David said No, and James said No,
and Maggie said No; first honour must be to their father; and Alick
now likes it on the whole, though he often sighs at having to shave
every day; and on some snell mornings he still creeps from his couch
at four and even at two (thinking that his mallet and chisel are
calling him), and begins to pull on his trousers, until the grandeur
of them reminds him that he can go to bed again. Sometimes he cries a
little, because there is no more work for him to do for ever and
ever; and then Maggie gives him a spade (without telling David) or
David gives him the logs to saw (without telling Maggie).

We have given James a longer time to make his move than our kind
friends in front will give him, but in the meantime something has
been happening. David has come in, wearing a black coat and his
Sabbath boots, for he has been to a public meeting. David is nigh
forty years of age, whiskered like his father and brother (Alick's
whiskers being worn as a sort of cravat round the neck), and he has
the too brisk manner of one who must arrive anywhere a little before
any one else. The painter who did the three of them for fifteen
pounds (you may observe the canvases on the walls) has caught this
characteristic, perhaps accidentally, for David is almost stepping
out of his frame, as if to hurry off somewhere; while Alick and James
look as if they were pinned to the wall for life. All the six of
them, men and pictures, however, have a family resemblance, like
granite blocks from their own quarry. They are as Scotch as peat for
instance, and they might exchange eyes without any neighbour noticing
the difference, inquisitive little blue eyes that seem to be always
totting up the price of things.

The dambrod players pay no attention to David, nor does he regard
them. Dumping down on the sofa he removes his 'lastic sides, as his
Sabbath boots are called, by pushing one foot against the other, gets
into a pair of hand-sewn slippers, deposits the boots as according to
rule in the ottoman, and crosses to the fire. There must be something
on David's mind to-night, for he pays no attention to the game,
neither gives advice (than which nothing is more maddening) nor
exchanges a wink with Alick over the parlous condition of James's
crown. You can hear the wag-at-the-wall clock in the lobby ticking.
Then David lets himself go; it runs out of him like a hymn:)

DAVID. Oh, let the solid ground Not fail beneath my feet, Before my
life has found What some have found so sweet.

(This is not a soliloquy, but is offered as a definite statement. The
players emerge from their game with difficulty.)

ALICK [with JAMES's crown in his hand]. What's that you're saying,
David?

DAVID [like a public speaker explaining the situation in a few well-chosen
words]. The thing I'm speaking about is Love.

JAMES [keeping control of himself]. Do you stand there and say you're
in love, David Wylie?

DAVID. Me; what would I do with the thing?

JAMES [who is by no means without pluck]. I see no necessity for
calling it a thing.

(They are two bachelors who all their lives have been afraid of
nothing but Woman. DAVID in his sportive days--which continue--has
done roguish things with his arm when conducting a lady home under an
umbrella from a soiree, and has both chuckled and been scared on
thinking of it afterwards. JAMES, a commoner fellow altogether, has
discussed the sex over a glass, but is too canny to be in the company
of less than two young women at a time.)

DAVID [derisively]. Oho, has she got you, James?

JAMES [feeling the sting of it]. Nobody has got me.

DAVID. They'll catch you yet, lad.

JAMES. They'll never catch me. You've been nearer catched yourself.

ALICK. Yes, Kitty Menzies, David.

DAVID [feeling himself under the umbrella]. It was a kind of a shave
that.

ALICK [who knows all that is to be known about women and can speak of
them without a tremor]. It's a curious thing, but a man cannot help
winking when he hears that one of his friends has been catched.

DAVID. That's so.

JAMES [clinging to his manhood]. And fear of that wink is what has
kept the two of us single men. And yet what's the glory of being
single?

DAVID. There's no particular glory in it, but it's safe.

JAMES [putting away his aspirations]. Yes, it's lonely, but it's
safe. But who did you mean the poetry for, then?

DAVID. For Maggie, of course.

(You don't know DAVID and JAMES till you know how they love their
sister MAGGIE.)

ALICK. I thought that.

DAVID [coming to the second point of his statement about Love]. I saw
her reading poetry and saying those words over to herself.

JAMES. She has such a poetical mind.

DAVID. Love. There's no doubt as that's what Maggie has set her heart
on. And not merely love, but one of those grand noble loves; for
though Maggie is undersized she has a passion for romance.

JAMES [wandering miserably about the room]. It's terrible not to be
able to give Maggie what her heart is set on.

(The others never pay much attention to JAMES, though he is quite a
smart figure in less important houses.)

ALICK [violently]. Those idiots of men.

DAVID. Father, did you tell her who had got the minister of
Galashiels?

ALICK [wagging his head sadly]. I had to tell her. And then I--I--
bought her a sealskin muff, and I just slipped it into her hands and
came away.

JAMES [illustrating the sense of justice in the Wylie family]. Of
course, to be fair to the man, he never pretended he wanted her.

DAVID. None of them wants her; that's what depresses her. I was
thinking, father, I would buy her that gold watch and chain in
Snibby's window. She hankers after it.

JAMES [slapping his pocket]. You're too late, David; I've got them
for her.

DAVID. It's ill done of the minister. Many a pound of steak has that
man had in this house.

ALICK. You mind the slippers she worked for him?

JAMES. I mind them fine; she began them for William Cathro. She's
getting on in years, too, though she looks so young.

ALICK. I never can make up my mind, David, whether her curls make her
look younger or older.

DAVID [determinedly]. Younger. Whist! I hear her winding the clock.
Mind, not a word about the minister to her, James. Don't even mention
religion this day.

JAMES. Would it be like me to do such a thing?

DAVID. It would be very like you. And there's that other matter: say
not a syllable about our having a reason for sitting up late to-
night. When she says it's bed-time, just all pretend we're not
sleepy.

ALICK. Exactly, and when--

(Here MAGGIE enters, and all three are suddenly engrossed in the
dambrod. We could describe MAGGIE at great length. But what is the
use? What you really want to know is whether she was good-looking.
No, she was not. Enter MAGGIE, who is not good-looking. When this is
said, all is said. Enter MAGGIE, as it were, with her throat cut from
ear to ear. She has a soft Scotch voice and a more resolute manner
than is perhaps fitting to her plainness; and she stops short at
sight of JAMES sprawling unconsciously in the company chair.)

MAGGIE. James, I wouldn't sit on the fine chair.

JAMES. I forgot again.

(But he wishes she had spoken more sharply. Even profanation of the
fine chair has not roused her. She takes up her knitting, and they
all suspect that she knows what they have been talking about.)

MAGGIE. You're late, David, it's nearly bed-time.

DAVID [finding the subject a safe one]. I was kept late at the public
meeting.

ALICK [glad to get so far away from Galashiels]. Was it a good
meeting?

DAVID. Fairish. [with some heat] That young John Shand WOULD make a
speech.

MAGGIE. John Shand? Is that the student Shand?

DAVID. The same. It's true he's a student at Glasgow University in
the winter months, but in summer he's just the railway porter here;
and I think it's very presumptuous of a young lad like that to make a
speech when he hasn't a penny to bless himself with.

ALICK. The Shands were always an impudent family, and jealous. I
suppose that's the reason they haven't been on speaking terms with us
this six years. Was it a good speech?

DAVID [illustrating the family's generosity]. It was very fine; but
he needn't have made fun of ME.

MAGGIE [losing a stitch]. He dared?

DAVID [depressed]. You see I can not get started on a speech without
saying things like 'In rising FOR to make a few remarks.'

JAMES. What's wrong with it?

DAVID. He mimicked me, and said, 'Will our worthy chairman come for
to go for to answer my questions?' and so on; and they roared.

JAMES [slapping his money pocket]. The sacket.

DAVID. I did feel bitterly, father, the want of education. [Without
knowing it, he has a beautiful way of pronouncing this noble word.]

MAGGIE [holding out a kind hand to him]. David.

ALICK. I've missed it sore, David. Even now I feel the want of it in
the very marrow of me. I'm ashamed to think I never gave you your
chance. But when you were young I was so desperate poor, how could I
do it, Maggie?

MAGGIE. It wasn't possible, father.

ALICK [gazing at the book-shelves]. To be able to understand these
books! To up with them one at a time and scrape them as clean as
though they were a bowl of brose. Lads, it's not to riches, it's to
scholarship that I make my humble bow.

JAMES [who is good at bathos]. There's ten yards of them. And they
were selected by the minister of Galashiels. He said--

DAVID [quickly]. James.

JAMES. I mean--I mean--

MAGGIE [calmly]. I suppose you mean what you say, James. I hear,
David, that the minister of Galashiels is to be married on that Miss
Turnbull.

DAVID [on guard]. So they were saying.

ALICK. All I can say is she has made a poor bargain.

MAGGIE [the damned]. I wonder at you, father. He's a very nice
gentleman. I'm sure I hope he has chosen wisely.

JAMES. Not him.

MAGGIE [getting near her tragedy]. How can you say that when you
don't know her? I expect she is full of charm.

ALICK. Charm? It's the very word he used.

DAVID. Havering idiot.

ALICK. What IS charm, exactly, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Oh, it's--it's a sort of bloom on a woman. If you have it,
you don't need to have anything else; and if you don't have it, it
doesn't much matter what else you have. Some women, the few, have
charm for all; and most have charm for one. But some have charm for
none.

(Somehow she has stopped knitting. Her men-folk are very depressed.
JAMES brings his fist down on the table with a crash.)

JAMES [shouting]. I have a sister that has charm.

MAGGIE. No, James, you haven't.

JAMES [rushing at her with the watch and chain]. Ha'e, Maggie.

[She lets them lie in her lap.]

DAVID. Maggie, would you like a silk?

MAGGIE. What could I do with a silk? [With a gust of passion] You
might as well dress up a little brown hen.

[They wriggle miserably.]

JAMES [stamping]. Bring him here to me.

MAGGIE. Bring whom, James?

JAMES. David, I would be obliged if you wouldn't kick me beneath the
table.

MAGGIE [rising]. Let's be practical; let's go to our beds.

[This reminds them that they have a job on hand in which she is not
to share.]

DAVID [slily]. I don't feel very sleepy yet.

ALICK. Nor me either.

JAMES. You've just taken the very words out of my mouth.

DAVID [with unusual politeness]. Good-night to you Maggie.

MAGGIE (fixing the three of them). ALL of YOU unsleepy, when, as is
well known, ten o'clock is your regular bed-time?

JAMES. Yes, it's common knowledge that we go to our beds at ten.
[Chuckling] That's what we're counting on.

MAGGIE. Counting on?

DAVID. You stupid whelp.

JAMES. What have I done?

MAGGIE [folding her arms]. There's something up. You've got to tell
me, David.

DAVID [who knows when he is beaten]. Go out and watch, James.

MAGGIE. Watch?

[JAMES takes himself off, armed, as MAGGIE notices, with a stick.]

DAVID [in his alert business way]. Maggie, there are burglars about.

MAGGIE. Burglars? [She sits rigid, but she is not the kind to
scream.]

DAVID. We hadn't meant for to tell you till we nabbed them; but
they've been in this room twice of late. We sat up last night waiting
for them, and we're to sit up again to-night.

MAGGIE. The silver plate.

DAVID. It's all safe as yet. That makes us think that they were
either frightened away these other times, or that they are coming
back for to make a clean sweep.

MAGGIE. How did you get to know about this?

DAVID. It was on Tuesday that the polissman called at the quarry with
a very queer story. He had seen a man climbing out at this window at
ten past two.

MAGGIE. Did he chase him?

DAVID. It was so dark he lost sight of him at once.

ALICK. Tell her about the window.

DAVID. We've found out that the catch of the window has been pushed
back by slipping the blade of a knife between the woodwork.

MAGGIE. David.

ALICK. The polissman said he was carrying a little carpet bag.

MAGGIE. The silver plate IS gone.

DAVID. No, no. We were thinking that very likely he has bunches of
keys in the bag.

MAGGIE. Or weapons.

DAVID. As for that, we have some pretty stout weapons ourselves in
the umbrella stand. So, if you'll go to your bed, Maggie--

MAGGIE. Me? and my brothers in danger.

ALICK. There's just one of them.

MAGGIE. The polissman just saw one.

DAVID [licking his palms]. I would be very pleased if there were
three of them.

MAGGIE. I watch with you. I would be very pleased if there were four
of them.

DAVID. And they say she has no charm!

[JAMES returns on tiptoe as if the burglars were beneath the table.
He signs to every one to breathe no more, and then whispers his
news.]

JAMES. He's there. I had no sooner gone out than I saw him sliding
down the garden wall, close to the rhubarbs.

ALICK. What's he like?

JAMES. He's an ugly customer. That's all I could see. There was a
little carpet bag in his hand.

DAVID. That's him.

JAMES. He slunk into the rhodydendrons, and he's there now, watching
the window.

DAVID. We have him. Out with the light.

(The room is beautified by a chandelier fitted for three gas jets,
but with the advance of progress one of these has been removed and
the incandescent light put in its place. This alone is lit. ALICK
climbs a chair, pulls a little chain, and the room is now but vaguely
lit by the fire. It plays fitfully on four sparkling faces.)

MAGGIE. Do you think he saw you, James?

JAMES. I couldn't say, but in any case I was too clever for him. I
looked up at the stars, and yawned loud at them as if I was
tremendous sleepy.

(There is a long pause during which they are lurking in the shadows.
At last they hear some movement, and they steal like ghosts from the
room. We see DAVID turning out the lobby light; then the door closes
and an empty room awaits the intruder with a shudder of expectancy.
The window opens and shuts as softly as if this were a mother peering
in to see whether her baby is asleep. Then the head of a man shows
between the curtains. The remainder of him follows. He is carrying a
little carpet bag. He stands irresolute; what puzzles him evidently
is that the Wylies should have retired to rest without lifting that
piece of coal off the fire. He opens the door and peeps into the
lobby, listening to the wag-at-the-wall clock. All seems serene, and
he turns on the light. We see him clearly now. He is JOHN SHAND, age
twenty-one, boots muddy, as an indignant carpet can testify. He wears
a shabby topcoat and a cockerty bonnet; otherwise he is in the well-
worn corduroys of a railway porter. His movements, at first stealthy,
become almost homely as he feels that he is secure. He opens the bag
and takes out a bunch of keys, a small paper parcel, and a black
implement that may be a burglar's jemmy. This cool customer examines
the fire and piles on more coals. With the keys he opens the door of
the bookcase, selects two large volumes, and brings them to the
table. He takes off his topcoat and opens his parcel, which we now
see contains sheets of foolscap paper. His next action shows that the
'jemmy' is really a ruler. He knows where the pen and ink are kept.
He pulls the fine chair nearer to the table, sits on it, and proceeds
to write, occasionally dotting the carpet with ink as he stabs the
air with his pen. He is so occupied that he does not see the door
opening, and the Wylie family staring at him. They are armed with
sticks.)

ALICK [at last]. When you're ready, John Shand.

[JOHN hints back, and then he has the grace to rise, dogged and
expressionless.]

JAMES [like a railway porter]. Ticket, please.

DAVID. You can't think of anything clever for to go for to say now,
John.

MAGGIE. I hope you find that chair comfortable, young man.

JOHN. I have no complaint to make against the chair.

ALICK [who is really distressed]. A native of the town. The disgrace
to your family! I feel pity for the Shands this night.

JOHN [glowering]. I'll thank you, Mr. Wylie, not to pity my family.

JAMES. Canny, canny.

MAGGIE [that sense of justice again]. I think you should let the
young man explain. It mayn't be so bad as we thought.

DAVID. Explain away, my billie.

JOHN. Only the uneducated would need an explanation. I'm a student,
[with a little passion] and I'm desperate for want of books. You have
all I want here; no use to you but for display; well, I came here to
study. I come twice weekly. [Amazement of his hosts.]

DAVID [who is the first to recover]. By the window.

JOHN. Do you think a Shand would so far lower himself as to enter
your door? Well, is it a case for the police?

JAMES. It is.

MAGGIE [not so much out of the goodness of her heart as to patronise
the Shands]. It seems to me it's a case for us all to go to our beds
and leave the young man to study; but not on that chair. [And she
wheels the chair away from him.]

JOHN. Thank you, Miss Maggie, but I couldn't be beholden to you.

JAMES. My opinion is that he's nobody, so out with him.

JOHN. Yes, out with me. And you'll be cheered to hear I'm likely to
be a nobody for a long time to come.

DAVID [who had been beginning to respect him]. Are you a poor
scholar?

JOHN. On the contrary, I'm a brilliant scholar.

DAVID. It's siller, then?

JOHN [glorified by experiences he has shared with many a gallant
soul]. My first year at college I lived on a barrel of potatoes, and
we had just a sofa-bed between two of us; when the one lay down the
other had to get up. Do you think it was hardship? It was sublime.
But this year I can't afford it. I'll have to stay on here,
collecting the tickets of the illiterate, such as you, when I might
be with Romulus and Remus among the stars.

JAMES [summing up]. Havers.

DAVID [in whose head some design is vaguely taking shape]. Whist,
James. I must say, young lad, I like your spirit. Now tell me, what's
your professors' opinion of your future.

JOHN. They think me a young man of extraordinary promise.

DAVID. You have a name here for high moral character.

JOHN. And justly.

DAVID. Are you serious-minded?

JOHN. I never laughed in my life.

DAVID. Who do you sit under in Glasgow?

JOHN. Mr. Flemister of the Sauchiehall High.

DAVID. Are you a Sabbath-school teacher?

JOHN. I am.

DAVID. One more question. Are you promised?

JOHN. To a lady?

DAVID. Yes.

JOHN. I've never given one of them a single word of encouragement.
I'm too much occupied thinking about my career.

DAVID. So. [He reflects, and finally indicates by a jerk of the head
that he wishes to talk with his father behind the door.]

JAMES [longingly]. Do you want me too?

[But they go out without even answering him.]

MAGGIE. I don't know what maggot they have in their heads, but sit
down, young man, till they come back.

JOHN. My name's Mr. Shand, and till I'm called that I decline to sit
down again in this house.

MAGGIE. Then I'm thinking, young sir, you'll have a weary wait.

[While he waits you can see how pinched his face is. He is little
more than a boy, and he seldom has enough to eat. DAVID and ALICK
return presently, looking as sly as if they had been discussing some
move on the dambrod, as indeed they have.]

DAVID [suddenly become genial]. Sit down, Mr. Shand, and pull in your
chair. You'll have a thimbleful of something to keep the cold out?
[Briskly] Glasses, Maggie.

[She wonders, but gets glasses and decanter from the sideboard, which
JAMES calls the chiffy. DAVID and ALICK, in the most friendly manner,
also draw up to the table.]

You're not a totaller, I hope?

JOHN [guardedly] I'm practically a totaller.

DAVID. So are we. How do you take it? Is there any hot water, Maggie?

JOHN. If I take it at all, and I haven't made up my mind yet, I'll
take it cold.

DAVID. You'll take it hot, James?

JAMES [also sitting at the table but completely befogged]. No, I--

DAVID [decisively] I think you'll take it hot, James.

JAMES [sulking]. I'll take it hot.

DAVID. The kettle, Maggie.

[JAMES has evidently to take it hot so that they can get at the
business now on hand, while MAGGIE goes kitchenward for the kettle.]

ALICK. Now, David, quick, before she comes back.

DAVID. Mr. Shand, we have an offer to make you.

JOHN [warningly]. No patronage.

ALIGK. It's strictly a business affair.

DAVID. Leave it to me, father. It's this--[But to his annoyance the
suspicious MAGGIE has already returned with the kettle.] Maggie,
don't you see that you're not wanted?

MAGGIE [sitting down by the fire and resuming her knitting]. I do,
David.

DAVID. I have a proposition to put before Mr. Shand, and women are
out of place in business transactions.

[The needles continue to click.]

ALICK [sighing]. We'll have to let her bide, David.

DAVID [sternly]. Woman. [But even this does not budge her.] Very well
then, sit there, but don't interfere, mind. Mr. Shand, we're willing,
the three of us, to lay out L300 on your education if--

JOHN. Take care.

DAVID [slowly, which is not his wont]. On condition that five year
from now, Maggie Wylie, if still unmarried, can claim to marry you,
should such be her wish; the thing to be perfectly open on her side,
but you to be strictly tied down.

JAMES [enlightened]. So, so.

DAVID [resuming his smart manner]. Now, what have you to say? Decide.

JOHN [after a pause]. I regret to say--

MAGGIE. It doesn't matter what he regrets to say, because I decide
against it. And I think it was very ill-done of you to make any such
proposal.

DAVID [without looking at her]. Quiet, Maggie.

JOHN [looking at her]. I must say, Miss Maggie, I don't see what
reasons YOU can have for being so set against it.

MAGGIE. If you would grow a beard, Mr. Shand, the reasons wouldn't be
quite so obvious.

JOHN. I'll never grow a beard.

MAGGIE. Then you're done for at the start.

ALICK. Come, come.

MAGGIE. Seeing I have refused the young man--

JOHN. Refused!

DAVID. That's no reason why we shouldn't have his friendly opinion.
Your objections, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. Simply, it's a one-sided bargain. I admit I'm no catch at
present; but what could a man of my abilities not soar to with three
hundred pounds? Something far above what she could aspire to.

MAGGIE. Oh, indeed!

DAVID. The position is that without the three hundred you can't soar.

JOHN. You have me there.

MAGGIE. Yes, but--

ALICK. You see YOU'RE safeguarded, Maggie; you don't need to take him
unless you like, but he has to take you.

JOHN. That's an unfair arrangement also.

MAGGIE. I wouldn't dream of it without that condition.

JOHN. Then you ARE thinking of it?

MAGGIE. Poof!

DAVID. It's a good arrangement for you, Mr. Shand. The chances are
you'll never have to go on with it, for in all probability she'll
marry soon.

JAMES. She's tremendous run after.

JOHN. Even if that's true, it's just keeping me in reserve in case
she misses doing better.

DAVID [relieved]. That's the situation in a nutshell.

JOHN. Another thing. Supposing I was to get fond of her?

ALICK [wistfully]. It's very likely.

JOHN. Yes, and then suppose she was to give me the go-by?

DAVID. You have to risk that.

JOHN. Or take it the other way. Supposing as I got to know her I
COULD NOT endure her?

DAVID [suavely]. You have both to take risks.

JAMES [less suavely]. What you need, John Shand, is a clout on the
head.

JOHN. Three hundred pounds is no great sum.

DAVID. You can take it or leave it.

ALICK. No great sum for a student studying for the ministry!

JOHN. Do you think that with that amount of money I would stop short
at being a minister?

DAVID. That's how I like to hear you speak. A young Scotsman of your
ability let loose upon the world with L300, what could he not do?
It's almost appalling to think of; especially if he went among the
English.

JOHN. What do you think, Miss Maggie?

MAGGIE [who is knitting]. I have no thoughts on the subject either
way.

JOHN [after looking her over]. What's her age? She looks young, but
they say it's the curls that does it.

DAVID [rather happily]. She's one of those women who are eternally
young.

JOHN. I can't take that for an answer.

DAVID. She's twenty-five.

JOHN. I'm just twenty-one.

JAMES. I read in a book that about four years' difference in the ages
is the ideal thing. [As usual he is disregarded.]

DAVID. Well, Mr. Shand?

JOHN [where is his mother?]. I'm willing if she's willing.

DAVID. Maggie?

MAGGIE. There can be no 'if' about it. It must be an offer.

JOHN. A Shand give a Wylie such a chance to humiliate him? Never.

MAGGIE. Then all is off.

DAVID. Come, come, Mr. Shand, it's just a form.

JOHN [reluctantly]. Miss Maggie, will you?

MAGGIE [doggedly]. Is it an offer? JOHN [dourly]. Yes.

MAGGIE [rising]. Before I answer I want first to give you a chance of
drawing back.

DAVID. Maggie.

MAGGIE [bravely]. When they said that I have been run after they were
misleading you. I'm without charm; nobody has ever been after me.

JOHN. Oho!

ALICK. They will be yet.

JOHN [the innocent]. It shows at least that you haven't been after
them.

[His hosts exchange a self-conscious glance.]

MAGGIE. One thing more; David said I'm twenty-five, I'm twenty-six.

JOHN. Aha!

MAGGIE. Now be practical. Do you withdraw from the bargain, or do you
not?

JOHN [on reflection]. It's a bargain.

MAGGIE. Then so be it.

DAVID [hurriedly]. And that's settled. Did you say you would take it
hot, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. I think I'll take it neat.

[The others decide to take it hot, and there is some careful business
here with the toddy ladles.]

ALICK. Here's to you, and your career.

JOHN. Thank you. To you, Miss Maggie. Had we not better draw up a
legal document? Lawyer Crosbie could do it on the quiet.

DAVID. Should we do that, or should we just trust to one another's
honour?

ALICK [gallantly]. Let Maggie decide.

MAGGIE. I think we would better have a legal document.

DAVID. We'll have it drawn up to-morrow. I was thinking the best way
would be for to pay the money in five yearly instalments.

JOHN. I was thinking, better bank the whole sum in my name at once.

ALICK. I think David's plan's the best.

JOHN. I think not. Of course if it's not convenient to you--

DAVID [touched to the quick]. It's perfectly convenient. What do you
say, Maggie?

MAGGIE. I agree with John.

DAVID [with an odd feeling that MAGGIE is now on the other side].
Very well.

JOHN. Then as that's settled I think I'll be stepping. [He is putting
his papers back in the bag.]

ALICK [politely]. If you would like to sit on at your books--

JOHN. As I can come at any orra time now I think I'll be stepping.
[MAGGIE helps him into his topcoat.]

MAGGIE. Have you a muffler, John?

JOHN. I have. [He gets it from his pocket.]

MAGGIE. You had better put it twice round. [She does this for him.]

DAVID. Well, good-night to you, Mr. Shand.

ALICK. And good luck.

JOHN. Thank you. The same to you. And I'll cry in at your office in
the morning before the 6:20 is due.

DAVID. I'll have the document ready for you. [There is the awkward
pause that sometimes follows great events.] I think, Maggie, you
might see Mr. Shand to the door.

MAGGIE. Certainly. [JOHN is going by the window.] This way, John.

[She takes him off by the more usual exit.]

DAVID. He's a fine frank fellow; and you saw how cleverly he got the
better of me about banking the money. [As the heads of the
conspirators come gleefully together] I tell you, father, he has a
grand business head.

ALICK. Lads, he's canny. He's cannier than any of us.

JAMES. Except maybe Maggie. He has no idea what a remarkable woman
Maggie is.

ALICK. Best he shouldn't know. Men are nervous of remarkable women.

JAMES. She's a long time in coming back.

DAVID [not quite comfortable]. It's a good sign. H'sh. What sort of a
night is it, Maggie?

MAGGIE. It's a little blowy.

[She gets a large dustcloth which is lying folded on a shelf, and
proceeds to spread it over the fine chair. The men exchange self-conscious
glances.]

DAVID [stretching himself]. Yes--well, well, oh yes. It's getting
late. What is it with you, father?

ALICK. I'm ten forty-two.

JAMES. I'm ten-forty.

DAVID. Ten forty-two.

[They wind up their watches.]

MAGGIE. It's high time we were bedded. [She puts her hands on their
shoulders lovingly, which is the very thing they have been trying to
avoid.] You're very kind to me.

DAVID. Havers.

ALICK. Havers.

JAMES [but this does not matter]. Havers.

MAGGIE [a little dolefully]. I'm a sort of sorry for the young man,
David.

DAVID. Not at all. You'll be the making of him. [She lifts the two
volumes.] Are you taking the books to your bed, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Yes. I don't want him to know things I don't know myself.

[She departs with the books; and ALICK and DAVID, the villains, now
want to get away from each other.]

ALICK. Yes--yes. Oh yes--ay, man--it is so--umpha. You'll lift the
big coals off, David.

[He wanders away to his spring mattress. DAVID removes the coals.]

JAMES [who would like to sit down and have an argy-bargy]. It's a
most romantical affair. [But he gets no answer.] I wonder how it'll
turn out? [No answer.] She's queer, Maggie. I wonder how some clever
writers has never noticed how queer women are. It's my belief you
could write a whole book about them. [DAVID remains obdurate.] It was
very noble of her to tell him she's twenty-six. [Muttering as he too
wanders away.] But I thought she was twenty-seven.

[DAVID turns out the light.]




ACT II

(Six years have elapsed and John Shand's great hour has come. Perhaps
his great hour really lies ahead of him, perhaps he had it six years
ago; it often passes us by in the night with such a faint call that
we don't even turn in our beds. But according to the trumpets this is
John's great hour; it is the hour for which he has long been working
with his coat off; and now the coat is on again (broadcloth but ill-
fitting), for there is no more to do but await results. He is
standing for Parliament, and this is election night.

As the scene discloses itself you get, so to speak, one of John
Shand's posters in the face. Vote for Shand. Shand, Shand, Shand.
Civil and Religious Liberty, Faith, Hope, Freedom. They are all fly-
blown names for Shand. Have a placard about Shand, have a hundred
placards about him, it is snowing Shand to-night in Glasgow; take the
paste out of your eye, and you will see that we are in one of Shand's
committee rooms. It has been a hairdresser's emporium, but Shand,
Shand, Shand has swept through it like a wind, leaving nothing but
the fixtures; why shave, why have your head doused in those basins
when you can be brushed and scraped and washed up for ever by simply
voting for Shand?

There are a few hard chairs for yelling Shand from, and then rushing
away. There is an iron spiral staircase that once led to the ladies'
hairdressing apartments, but now leads to more Shand, Shand, Shand. A
glass door at the back opens on to the shop proper, screaming Civil
and Religious Liberty, Shand, as it opens, and beyond is the street
crammed with still more Shand pro and con. Men in every sort of garb
rush in and out, up and down the stair, shouting the magic word. Then
there is a lull, and down the stair comes Maggie Wylie, decidedly
overdressed in blue velvet and (let us get this over) less good-
looking than ever. She raises her hands to heaven, she spins round
like a little teetotum. To her from the street, suffering from a
determination of the word Shand to the mouth, rush Alick and David.
Alick is thinner (being older), David is stouter (being older), and
they are both in tweeds and silk hats.)

MAGGIE. David--have they--is he? quick, quick! DAVID. There's no news
yet, no news. It's terrible.

[The teetotum revolves more quickly.]

ALICK. For God's sake, Maggie, sit down. MAGGIE. I can't, I can't.
DAVID. Hold her down.

[They press her into a chair; JAMES darts in, stouter also. His
necktie has gone; he will never again be able to attend a funeral in
that hat.]

JAMES [wildly]. John Shand's the man for you. John Shand's the man
for you. John Shand's the man for you.

DAVID [clutching him]. Have you heard anything?

JAMES. Not a word.

ALICK. Look at her.

DAVID. Maggie [he goes on his knees beside her, pressing her to him I
in affectionate anxiety]. It was mad of him to dare.

MAGGIE. It was grand of him.

ALICK [moving about distraught]. Insane ambition.

MAGGIE. Glorious ambition.

DAVID. Maggie, Maggie, my lamb, best be prepared for the worst.

MAGGIE [husky]. I am prepared.

ALICK. Six weary years has she waited for this night.

MAGGIE. Six brave years has John toiled for this night.

JAMES. And you could have had him, Maggie, at the end of five. The
document says five.

MAGGIE. Do you think I grudge not being married to him yet? Was I to
hamper him till the fight was won?

DAVID [with wrinkled brows]. But if it's lost?

[She can't answer.]

ALICK [starting]. What's that?

[The three listen at the door, the shouting dies down.]

DAVID. They're terrible still; what can make them so still?

[JAMES spirits himself away. ALICK and DAVID blanch to hear MAGGIE
speaking softly as if to JOHN.]

MAGGIE. Did you say you had lost, John? Of course you would lose the
first time, dear John. Six years. Very well, we'll begin another six
to-night. You'll win yet. [Fiercely] Never give in, John, never give
in!

[The roar of the multitude breaks out again and comes rolling
nearer.]

DAVID. I think he's coming.

[JAMES is fired into the room like a squeezed onion.]

JAMES. He's coming!

[They may go on speaking, but through the clang outside none could
hear. The populace seems to be trying to take the committee room by
assault. Out of the scrimmage a man emerges dishevelled and bursts
into the room, closing the door behind him. It is JOHN SHAND in a
five guinea suit, including the hat. There are other changes in him
also, for he has been delving his way through loamy ground all those
years. His right shoulder, which he used to raise to pound a path
through the crowd, now remains permanently in that position. His
mouth tends to close like a box. His eyes are tired, they need some
one to pull the lids over them and send him to sleep for a week. But
they are honest eyes still, and faithful, and could even light up his
face at times with a smile, if the mouth would give a little help.]

JOHN [clinging to a chair that he may not fly straight to heaven].
I'm in; I'm elected. Majority two hundred and forty-four; I'm John
Shand, M.P.

[The crowd have the news by this time and their roar breaks the door
open. JAMES is off at once to tell them that he is to be SHAND'S
brother-in-law. A teardrop clings to ALICK's nose; DAVID hits out
playfully at JOHN, and JOHN in an ecstasy returns the blow.]

DAVID. Fling yourself at the door, father, and bar them out. Maggie,
what keeps you so quiet now?

MAGGIE [weak in her limbs]. You're sure you're in, John?

JOHN. Majority 244. I've beaten the baronet. I've done it, Maggie,
and not a soul to help me; I've done it alone. [His voice breaks; you
could almost pick up the pieces.] I'm as hoarse as a crow, and I have
to address the Cowcaddens Club yet; David, pump some oxygen into me.

DAVID. Certainly, Mr. Shand. [While he does it, MAGGIE is seeing
visions.]

ALICK. What are you doing, Maggie?

MAGGIE. This is the House of Commons, and I'm John, catching the
Speaker's eye for the first time. Do you see a queer little old wifie
sitting away up there in the Ladies' Gallery? That's me. 'Mr.
Speaker, sir, I rise to make my historic maiden speech. I am no
orator, sir'; voice from Ladies' Gallery, 'Are you not, John? you'll
soon let them see that'; cries of 'Silence, woman,' and general
indignation. 'Mr. Speaker, sir, I stand here diffidently with my eyes
on the Treasury Bench'; voice from the Ladies' Gallery, 'And you'll
soon have your coat-tails on it, John'; loud cries of 'Remove that
little old wifie,' in which she is forcibly ejected, and the
honourable gentleman resumes his seat in a torrent of admiring
applause.

(ALICK and DAVID waggle their proud heads.)

JOHN [tolerantly]. Maggie, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You're not angry with me, John?

JOHN. No, no.

MAGGIE. But you glowered.

JOHN. I was thinking of Sir Peregrine. Just because I beat him at the
poll he took a shabby revenge; he congratulated me in French, a
language I haven't taken the trouble to master.

MAGGIE [becoming a little taller]. Would it help you, John, if you
were to marry a woman that could speak French?

DAVID [quickly]. Not at all.

MAGGIE [gloriously]. Mon cher Jean, laissez-moi parler le francais,
voulez-vous un interprete?

JOHN. Hullo!

MAGGIE. Je suis la soeur francaise de mes deux freres ecossais.

DAVID [worshipping her]. She's been learning French.

JOHN [lightly]. Well done.

MAGGIE [grandly]. They're arriving.

ALICK. Who?

MAGGIE. Our guests. This is London, and Mrs. John Shand is giving her
first reception. [Airily] Have I told you, darling, who are coming
to-night? There's that dear Sir Peregrine. [To ALICK] Sir Peregrine,
this is a pleasure. Avez-vous...So sorry we beat you at the poll.

JOHN. I'm doubting the baronet would sit on you, Maggie.

MAGGIE. I've invited a lord to sit on the baronet. Voila!

DAVID [delighted]. You thing! You'll find the lords expensive.

MAGGIE. Just a little cheap lord. (JAMES enters importantly.) My dear
Lord Cheap, this is kind of you.

(JAMES hopes that MAGGIE's reason is not unbalanced.)

DAVID [who really ought to have had education]. How de doo, Cheap?

JAMES (bewildered). Maggie---

MAGGIE. Yes, do call me Maggie.

ALICK (grinning). She's practising her first party, James. The swells
are at the door.

JAMES (heavily). That's what I came to say. They are at the door.

JOHN. Who?

JAMES. The swells; in their motor. (HE GIVES JOHN THREE CARDS.)

JOHN. 'Mr. Tenterden.'

DAVID. Him that was speaking for you?

JOHN. The same. He's a whip and an Honourable. 'Lady Sybil
Tenterden.' (FROWNS.) Her! She's his sister.

MAGGIE. A married woman?

JOHN. No. 'The Comtesse de la Briere.'

MAGGIE (the scholar). She must be French.

JOHN. Yes; I think she's some relation. She's a widow.

JAMES. But what am I to say to them? ('Mr. Shand's compliments, and
he will be proud to receive them' is the very least that the Wylies
expect.)

JOHN (WHO WAS EVIDENTLY MADE FOR GREAT ENDS). Say I'm very busy, but
if they care to wait I hope presently to give them a few minutes.

JAMES (THUNDERSTRUCK). Good God, Mr. Shand!

(BUT IT MAKES HIM JOHN'S MORE HUMBLE SERVANT THAN EVER, AND HE
DEPARTS WITH THE MESSAGE.)

JOHN (NOT UNAWARE OF THE SENSATION HE HAS CREATED). I'll go up and
let the crowd see me from the window.

MAGGIE. But--but--what are we to do with these ladies?

JOHN (AS HE TRAMPS UPWARDS). It's your reception, Maggie; this will
prove you.

MAGGIE (GROWING SMALLER). Tell me what you know about this Lady
Sybil?

JOHN. The only thing I know about her is that she thinks me vulgar.

MAGGIE. You?

JOHN. She has attended some of my meetings, and I'm told she said
that.

MAGGIE. What could the woman mean?

JOHN. I wonder. When I come down I'll ask her.

(WITH HIS DEPARTURE MAGGIE'S NERVOUSNESS INCREASES.)

ALICK (ENCOURAGINGLY). In at them, Maggie, with your French.

MAGGIE. It's all slipping from me, father.

DAVID (GLOOMILY). I'm sure to say 'for to come for to go.'

(The newcomers glorify the room, and MAGGIE feels that they have
lifted her up with the tongs and deposited her in one of the basins.
They are far from intending to be rude; it is not their fault that
thus do swans scatter the ducks. They do not know that they are
guests of the family, they think merely that they are waiting with
other strangers in a public room; they undulate inquiringly, and if
MAGGIE could undulate in return she would have no cause for offence.
But she suddenly realises that this is an art as yet denied her, and
that though DAVID might buy her evening-gowns as fine as theirs (and
is at this moment probably deciding to do so), she would look better
carrying them in her arms than on her person. She also feels that to
emerge from wraps as they are doing is more difficult than to plank
your money on the counter for them. The COMTESSE she could forgive,
for she is old; but LADY SYBIL is young and beautiful and comes
lazily to rest like a stately ship of Tarsus.)

COMTESSE (smiling divinely, and speaking with such a pretty accent).
I hope one is not in the way. We were told we might wait.

MAGGIE (bravely climbing out of the basin). Certainly--I am sure if
you will be so--it is--

(She knows that DAVID and her father are very sorry for her.) (A high
voice is heard orating outside.)

SYBIL (screwing her nose deliciously). He is at it again, Auntie.

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu! (Like one begging pardon of the universe) It is
Mr. Tenterden, you understand, making one more of his delightful
speeches to the crowd. WOULD you be so charming as to shut the door?

(This to DAVID in such appeal that she is evidently making the
petition of her life. DAVID saves her.)

MAGGIE (determined not to go under). J'espere que vous--trouvez--
cette--reunion--interessante?

COMTESSE. Vous parlez franfais? Mais c'est charmant! Voyons, causons
un peu. Racontez-moi tout de ce grand homme, toutes les choses
merveilleuses qu'il a faites.

MAGGIE. I--I--Je connais--(Alas!)

COMTESSE (naughtily). Forgive me, Mademoiselle, I thought you spoke
French.

SYBIL (who knows that DAVID admires her shoulders). How wicked of
you, Auntie. (To MAGGIE) I assure you none of us can understand her
when she gallops at that pace.

MAGGIE (crushed). It doesn't matter. I will tell Mr. Shand that you
are here.

SYBIL (drawling). Please don't trouble him. We are really only
waiting till my brother recovers and can take us back to our hotel.

MAGGIE. I'll tell him.

(She is glad to disappear up the stair.)

COMTESSE. The lady seems distressed. Is she a relation of Mr. Shand?

DAVID. Not for to say a relation. She's my sister. Our name is Wylie.

(But granite quarries are nothing to them.)

COMTESSE. How do you do. You are the committee man of Mr. Shand?

DAVID. No, just friends.

COMTESSE (gaily to the basins). Aha! I know you. Next, please! Sybil,
do you weigh yourself, or are you asleep?

(LADY SYBIL has sunk indolently into a weighing-chair.)

SYBIL. Not quite, Auntie.

COMTESSE (the mirror of la politesse). Tell me all about Mr. Shand.
Was it here that he--picked up the pin?

DAVID. The pin?

COMTESSE. As I have read, a self-made man always begins by picking up
a pin. After that, as the memoirs say, his rise was rapid.

(DAVID, however, is once more master of himself, and indeed has begun
to tot up the cost of their garments.)

DAVID. It wasn't a pin he picked up, my lady; it was L300.

ALICK (who feels that JOHN's greatness has been outside the
conversation quite long enough). And his rise wasn't so rapid, just
at first, David!

DAVID. He had his fight. His original intention was to become a
minister; he's university-educated, you know; he's not a working-man
member.

ALICK (with reverence). He's an M.A. But while he was a student he
got a place in an iron-cementer's business.

COMTESSE (now far out of her depths). Iron-cementer?

DAVID. They scrape boilers.

COMTESSE. I see. The fun men have, Sybil!

DAVID (with some solemnity). There have been millions made in
scraping boilers. They say, father, he went into business so as to be
able to pay off the L300.

ALICK (slily). So I've heard.

COMTESSE. Aha--it was a loan?

(DAVID and ALICK are astride their great subject now.)

DAVID. No, a gift--of a sort--from some well-wishers. But they
wouldn't hear of his paying it off, father!

ALICK. Not them!

COMTESSE (restraining an impulse to think of other things). That was
kind, charming.

ALICK (with a look at DAVID). Yes. Well, my lady, he developed a
perfect genius for the iron-cementing.

DAVID. But his ambition wasn't satisfied. Soon he had public life in
his eye. As a heckler he was something fearsome; they had to seat him
on the platform for to keep him quiet. Next they had to let him into
the Chair. After that he did all the speaking; he cleared all roads
before him like a fire-engine; and when this vacancy occurred, you
could hardly say it did occur, so quickly did he step into it. My
lady, there are few more impressive sights in the world than a
Scotsman on the make.

COMTESSE. I can well believe it. And now he has said farewell to
boilers?

DAVID (impressively). Not at all; the firm promised if he was elected
for to make him their London manager at L800 a year.

COMTESSE. There is a strong man for you, Sybil; but I believe you I
ARE asleep.

SYBIL (stirring herself). Honestly, I'm not. (Sweetly to the others)
But would you mind finding out whether my brother is drawing to a
close?

(DAVID goes out, leaving poor ALICK marooned. The COMTESSE is kind to
him.)

COMTESSE. Thank you very much. (Which helps ALICK out.) Don't you
love a strong man, sleepy head?

SYBIL (preening herself). I never met one.

COMTESSE. Neither have I. But if you did meet one, would he wakes you
up?

SYBIL. I dare say he would find there were two of us.

COMTESSE (considering her). Yes, I think he would. Ever been in love,
you cold thing?

SYBIL (yawning). I have never shot up in flame, Auntie.

COMTESSE. Think you could manage it?

SYBIL. If Mr. Right came along.

COMTESSE. As a girl of to-day it would be your duty to tame him.

SYBIL. As a girl of to-day I would try to do my duty.

COMTESSE. And if it turned out that HE tamed you instead?

SYBIL. He would have to do that if he were MY Mr. Right.

COMTESSE. And then?

SYBIL. Then, of course, I should adore him. Auntie, I think if I ever
really love it will be like Mary Queen of Scots, who said of her
Bothwell that she could follow him round the world in her nighty.

COMTESSE. My petite!

SYBIL. I believe I mean it.

COMTESSE. Oh, it is quite my conception of your character. Do you
know, I am rather sorry for this Mr. John Shand.

SYBIL (opening her fine eyes). Why? He is quite a boor, is he not?

COMTESSE. For that very reason. Because his great hour is already
nearly sped. That wild bull manner that moves the multitude--they
will laugh at it in your House of Commons.

SYBIL (indifferent). I suppose so.

COMTESSE. Yet if he had education---

SYBIL. Have we not been hearing how superbly he is educated?

COMTESSE. It is such as you or me that he needs to educate him now.
You could do it almost too well.

SYBIL (with that pretty stretch of neck). I am not sufficiently
interested. I retire in your favour. How would you begin?

COMTESSE. By asking him to drop in, about five, of course. By the
way, I wonder is there a Mrs. Shand?

SYBIL. I have no idea. But they marry young.

COMTESSE. If there is not, there is probably a lady waiting for him,
somewhere in a boiler.

SYBIL. I dare say.

(MAGGIE descends.)

MAGGIE. Mr. Shand will be down directly.

COMTESSE. Thank you. Your brother has been giving us such an
interesting account of his career. I forget, Sybil, whether he said
that he was married.

MAGGIE. No, he's not married; but he will be soon.

COMTESSE. Ah! (She is merely making conversation.) A friend of yours?

MAGGIE (now a scorner of herself). I don't think much of her.

COMTESSE. In that case, tell me all about her.

MAGGIE. There's not much to tell. She's common, and stupid. One of
those who go in for self-culture; and then when the test comes they
break down. (With sinister enjoyment) She'll be the ruin of him.

COMTESSE. But is not that sad! Figure to yourself how many men with
greatness before them have been shipwrecked by marrying in the rank
from which they sprang.

MAGGIE. I've told her that.

COMTESSE. But she will not give him up?

MAGGIE. No.

SYBIL. Why should she if he cares for her? What is her name?

MAGGIE. It's--Maggie.

COMTESSE (still uninterested). Well, I am afraid that Maggie is to do
for John. (JOHN comes down.) Ah, our hero!

JOHN. Sorry I have kept you waiting. The Comtesse?

COMTESSE. And my niece Lady Sybil Tenterden. (SYBIL'S head inclines
on its stem.) She is not really all my niece; I mean I am only half
of her aunt. What a triumph, Mr. Shand!

JOHN. Oh, pretty fair, pretty fair. Your brother has just finished
addressing the crowd, Lady Sybil.

SYBIL. Then we must not detain Mr. Shand, Auntie.

COMTESSE (who unless her heart is touched thinks insincerity
charming). Only one word. I heard you speak last night. Sublime! Just
the sort of impassioned eloquence that your House of Commons loves.

JOHN. It's very good of you to say so.

COMTESSE. But we must run. Bon soir.

(SYBIL bows as to some one far away.)

JOHN. Good-night, Lady Sybil. I hear you think I'm vulgar. (Eyebrows
are raised.)

COMTESSE. My dear Mr. Shand, what absurd---

JOHN. I was told she said that after hearing me speak.

COMTESSE. Quite a mistake, I---

JOHN (doggedly). Is it not true?

SYBIL ('waking up'). You seem to know, Mr. Shand; and as you press me
so unnecessarily--well, yes, that is how you struck me.

COMTESSE. My child!

SYBIL (who is a little agitated). He would have it.

JOHN (perplexed). What's the matter? I just wanted to know, because
if it's true I must alter it.

COMTESSE. There, Sybil, see how he values your good opinion.

SYBIL (her svelte figure giving like a fishing-rod). It is very nice
of you to put it in that way, Mr. Shand. Forgive me.

JOHN. But I don't quite understand yet. Of course, it can't matter to
me, Lady Sybil, what you think of me; what I mean is, that I mustn't
be vulgar if it would be injurious to my career.

(The fishing-rod regains its rigidity.)

SYBIL. I see. No, of course, I could not affect your career, Mr
Shand.

JOHN (who quite understands that he is being challenged). That's so,
Lady Sybil, meaning no offence.

SYBIL (who has a naughty little impediment in her voice when she is
most alluring). Of course not. And we are friends again?

JOHN. Certainly.

SYBIL. Then I hope you will come to see me in London as I present no
terrors.

JOHN (he is a man, is JOHN). I'll be very pleased.

SYBIL. Any afternoon about five.

JOHN. Much obliged. And you can teach me the things I don't know yet,
if you'll be so kind.

SYBIL (the impediment becoming more assertive). If you wish it, I
shall do my best.

JOHN. Thank you, Lady Sybil. And who knows there may be one or two
things I can teach you.

SYBIL (it has now become an angel's hiccough). Yes, we can help one
another. Good-bye till then.

JOHN. Good-bye. Maggie, the ladies are going.

(During this skirmish MAGGIE has stood apart. At the mention of her
name they glance at one another. JOHN escorts SYBIL, but the COMTESSE
turns back.)

COMTESSE. Are you, then, the Maggie? (MAGGIE nods rather defiantly
and the COMTESSE is distressed.) But if I had known I would not have
said those things. Please forgive an old woman.

MAGGIE. It doesn't matter.

COMTESSE. I--I dare say it will be all right. Mademoiselle, if I were
you I would not encourage those tete-a-tetes with Lady Sybil. I am
the rude one, but she is the dangerous one; and I am afraid his
impudence has attracted her. Bon voyage, Miss Maggie.

MAGGIE. Good-bye--but I CAN speak French. Je parle francais. Isn't
that right?

COMTESSE. But, yes, it is excellent. (Making things easy for her)
C'est tres bien.

MAGGIE. Je me suis embrouillee--la derniere fois.

COMTESSE. Good! Shall I speak more slowly?

MAGGIE. No, no. Nonon, non, faster, faster.

COMTESSE. J'admire votre courage!

MAGGIE. Je comprends chaque mot.

COMTESSE. Parfait! Bravo!

MAGGIE. Voila!

COMTESSE. Superbe!

(She goes, applauding; and MAGGIE has a moment of elation, which
however has passed before JOHN returns for his hat.)

MAGGIE. Have you more speaking to do, John? (He is somehow in high
good-humour.)

JOHN. I must run across and address the Cowcaddens Club. (He sprays
his throat with a hand-spray.) I wonder if I AM vulgar, Maggie?

MAGGIE. You are not, but _I_ am.

JOHN. Not that _I_ can see.

MAGGIE. Look how overdressed I am, John. I knew it was too showy when
I ordered it, and yet I could not resist the thing. But I will tone
it down, I will. What did you think of Lady Sybil?

JOHN. That young woman had better be careful. She's a bit of a besom,
Maggie.

MAGGIE. She's beautiful, John.

JOHN. She has a neat way of stretching herself. For playing with she
would do as well as another.

(She looks at him wistfully.)

MAGGIE. You couldn't stay and have a talk for a few minutes?

JOHN. If you want me, Maggie. The longer you keep them waiting, the
more they think of you.

MAGGIE. When are you to announce that we're to be married, John?

JOHN. I won't be long. You've waited a year more than you need have
done, so I think it's your due I should hurry things now.

MAGGIE. I think it's noble of you.

JOHN. Not at all, Maggie; the nobleness has been yours in waiting so
patiently. And your brothers would insist on it at any rate. They're
watching me like cats with a mouse.

MAGGIE. It's so little I've done to help.

JOHN. Three hundred pounds.

MAGGIE. I'm getting a thousand per cent for it.

JOHN. And very pleased I am you should think so, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Is it terrible hard to you, John?

JOHN. It's not hard at all. I can say truthfully, Maggie, that all,
or nearly all, I've seen of you in these six years has gone to
increase my respect for you.

MAGGIE. Respect!

JOHN. And a bargain's a bargain.

MAGGIE. If it wasn't that you're so glorious to me, John, I would let
you off.

(There is a gleam in his eye, but he puts it out.)

JOHN. In my opinion, Maggie, we'll be a very happy pair.

(She accepts this eagerly.)

MAGGIE. We know each other so well, John, don't we?

JOHN. I'm an extraordinary queer character, and I suppose nobody
knows me well except myself; but I know you, Maggie, to the very
roots of you.

(She magnanimously lets this remark alone.)

MAGGIE. And it's not as if there was any other woman you--fancied
more, John.

JOHN. There's none whatever.

MAGGIE. If there ever should be--oh, if there ever should be! Some
woman with charm.

JOHN. Maggie, you forget yourself. There couldn't be another woman
once I was a married man.

MAGGIE. One has heard of such things.

JOHN. Not in Scotsmen, Maggie; not in Scotsmen.

MAGGIE. I've sometimes thought, John, that the difference between us
and the English is that the Scotch are hard in all other respects but
soft with women, and the English are hard with women but soft in all
other respects.

JOHN. You've forgotten the grandest moral attribute of a Scotsman,
Maggie, that he'll do nothing which might damage his career.

MAGGIE. Ah, but John, whatever you do, you do it so tremendously; and
if you were to love, what a passion it would be.

JOHN. There's something in that, I suppose.

MAGGIE. And then, what could I do? For the desire of my life now,
John, is to help you to get everything you want, except just that I
want you to have me, too.

JOHN. We'll get on fine, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You're just making the best of it. They say that love is
sympathy, and if that's so, mine must be a great love for you, for I
see all you are feeling this night and bravely hiding; I feel for you
as if I was John Shand myself. (He sighs.)

JOHN. I had best go to the meeting, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Not yet. Can you look me in the face, John, and deny that
there is surging within you a mighty desire to be free, to begin the
new life untrammelled?

JOHN. Leave such maggots alone, Maggie.

MAGGIE. It's a shame of me not to give you up.

JOHN. I would consider you a very foolish woman if you did.

MAGGIE. If I were John Shand I would no more want to take Maggie
Wylie with me through the beautiful door that has opened wide for you
than I would want to take an old pair of shoon. Why don't you bang
the door in my face, John? (A tremor runs through JOHN.)

JOHN. A bargain's a bargain, Maggie.

(MAGGIE moves about, an eerie figure, breaking into little cries. She
flutters round him, threateningly.)

MAGGIE. Say one word about wanting to get out of it, and I'll put the
lawyers on you.

JOHN. Have I hinted at such a thing?

MAGGIE. The document holds you hard and fast.

JOHN. It does.

(She gloats miserably.)

MAGGIE. The woman never rises with the man. I'll drag you down, John.
I'll drag you down.

JOHN. Have no fear of that, I won't let you. I'm too strong.

MAGGIE. You'll miss the prettiest thing in the world, and all owing
to me.

JOHN. What's that?

MAGGIE. Romance.

JOHN. Poof.

MAGGIE. All's cold and grey without it, John. They that have had it
have slipped in and out of heaven.

JOHN. You're exaggerating, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You've worked so hard, you've had none of the fun that comes
to most men long before they're your age.

JOHN. I never was one for fun. I cannot call to mind, Maggie, ever
having laughed in my life.

MAGGIE. You have no sense of humour.

JOHN. Not a spark.

MAGGIE. I've sometimes thought that if you had, it might make you
fonder of me. I think one needs a sense of humour to be fond of me.

JOHN. I remember reading of some one that said it needed a surgical
operation to get a joke into a Scotsman's head.

MAGGIE. Yes, that's been said.

JOHN. What beats me, Maggie, is how you could insert a joke with an
operation.

(He considers this and gives it up.)

MAGGIE. That's not the kind of fun I was thinking of. I mean fun with
the lasses, John--gay, jolly, harmless fun. They could be impudent
fashionable beauties now, stretching themselves to attract you, like
that hiccoughing little devil, and running away from you, and
crooking their fingers to you to run after them.

(He draws a big breath.)

JOHN. No, I never had that.

MAGGIE. It's every man's birthright, and you would have it now but
for me.

JOHN. I can do without, Maggie.

MAGGIE. It's like missing out all the Saturdays.

JOHN. You feel sure, I suppose, that an older man wouldn't suit you
better, Maggie?

MAGGIE. I couldn't feel surer of anything. You're just my ideal.

JOHN. Yes, yes. Well, that's as it should be.

(She threatens him again.)

MAGGIE. David has the document. It's carefully locked away.

JOHN. He would naturally take good care of it.

(The pride of the Wylies deserts her.)

MAGGIE. John, I make you a solemn promise that, in consideration of
the circumstances of our marriage, if you should ever fall in love
I'll act differently from other wives.

JOHN. There will be no occasion, Maggie.

(Her voice becomes tremulous.)

MAGGIE. John, David doesn't have the document. He thinks he has, but
I have it here.

(Somewhat heavily JOHN surveys the fatal paper.)

JOHN. Well do I mind the look of it, Maggie. Yes, yes, that's it.
Umpha.

MAGGIE. You don't ask why I've brought it.

JOHN. Why did you?

MAGGIE. Because I thought I might perhaps have the courage and the
womanliness to give it back to you. (JOHN has a brief dream.) Will
you never hold it up against me in the future that I couldn't do
that?

JOHN. I promise you, Maggie, I never will.

MAGGIE. To go back to The Pans and take up my old life there, when
all these six years my eyes have been centred on this night! I've
been waiting for this night as long as you have been; and now to go
back there, and wizen and dry up, when I might be married to John
Shand!

JOHN. And you will be, Maggie. You have my word.

MAGGIE. Never--never--never. (She tears up the document. He remains
seated immovable, but the gleam returns to his eye. She rages first
at herself and then at him.) I'm a fool, a fool, to let you go. I
tell you, you'll rue this day, for you need me, you'll come to grief
without me. There's nobody can help you as I could have helped you.
I'm essential to your career, and you're blind not to see it.

JOHN. What's that, Maggie? In no circumstances would I allow any
meddling with my career.

MAGGIE. You would never have known I was meddling with it. But that's
over. Don't be in too great a hurry to marry, John. Have your fling
with the beautiful dolls first. Get the whiphand of the haughty ones,
John. Give them their licks. Every time they hiccough let them have
an extra slap in memory of me. And be sure to remember this, my man,
that the one who marries you will find you out.

JOHN. Find me out?

MAGGIE. However careful a man is, his wife always finds out his
failings.

JOHN. I don't know, Maggie, to what failings you refer.

(The Cowcaddens Club has burst its walls, and is pouring this way to
raise the new Member on its crest. The first wave hurls itself
against the barber's shop with cries of 'Shand, Shand, Shand.' For a
moment, JOHN stems the torrent by planting his back against the
door.)

You are acting under an impulse, Maggie, and I can't take advantage
of it. Think the matter over, and we'll speak about it in the
morning.

MAGGIE. No, I can't go through it again. It ends to-night and now.
Good luck, John.

(She is immediately submerged in the sea that surges through the
door, bringing much wreckage with it. In a moment the place is so
full that another cupful could not find standing room. Some slippery
ones are squeezed upwards and remain aloft as warnings. JOHN has
jumped on to the stair, and harangues the flood vainly like another
Canute. It is something about freedom and noble minds, and, though
unheard, goes to all heads, including the speaker's. By the time he
is audible sentiment has him for her own.)

JOHN. But, gentlemen, one may have too much even of freedom (No, no.)
Yes, Mr. Adamson. One may want to be tied. (Never, never.) I say yes,
Willie Cameron; and I have found a young lady who I am proud to say
is willing to be tied to me. I'm to be married. (Uproar.) Her name's
Miss Wylie. (Transport.) Quiet; she's here now. (Frenzy.) She was
here! Where are you, Maggie? (A small voice--'I'm here.' A hundred
great voices--'Where--where--where?' The small voice--'I'm so little
none of you can see me.')

(Three men, name of Wylie, buffet their way forward.)

DAVID. James, father, have you grip of her?

ALICK. We've got her.

DAVID. Then hoist her up.

(The queer little elated figure is raised aloft. With her fingers she
can just touch the stars. Not unconscious of the nobility of his
behaviour, the hero of the evening points an impressive finger at
her.)

JOHN. Gentlemen, the future Mrs. John Shand! (Cries of 'Speech,
speech!') No, no, being a lady she can't make a speech, but---

(The heroine of the evening surprises him.)

MAGGIE. I can make a speech, and I will make a speech, and it's in
two words, and they're these (holding out her arms to enfold all the
members of the Cowcaddens Club)--My Constituents! (Dementia.)




ACT III

[A few minutes ago the Comtesse de la Briere, who has not recently
been in England, was shown into the London home of the Shands. Though
not sufficiently interested to express her surprise in words, she
raised her eyebrows on finding herself in a charming room; she has
presumed that the Shand scheme of decoration would be as impossible
as themselves.

It is the little room behind the dining-room for which English
architects have long been famous; 'Make something of this, and you
will indeed be a clever one,' they seem to say to you as they unveil
it. The Comtesse finds that John has undoubtedly made something of
it. It is his 'study' (mon Dieu, the words these English use!) and
there is nothing in it that offends; there is so much not in it too
that might so easily have been there. It is not in the least ornate;
there are no colours quarrelling with each other (unseen, unheard by
the blissful occupant of the revolving chair); the Comtesse has not
even the gentle satisfaction of noting a 'suite' in stained oak.
Nature might have taken a share in the decorations, so restful are
they to the eyes; it is the working room of a man of culture,
probably lately down from Oxford; at a first meeting there is nothing
in it that pretends to be what it is not. Our visitor is a little
disappointed, but being fair-minded blows her absent host a kiss for
disappointing her.

He has even, she observes with a twinkle, made something of the most
difficult of his possessions, the little wife. For Maggie, who is
here receiving her, has been quite creditably toned down. He has put
her into a little grey frock that not only deals gently with her
personal defects, but is in harmony with the room. Evidently,
however, she has not 'risen' with him, for she is as ever; the
Comtesse, who remembers having liked her the better of the two, could
shake her for being so stupid. For instance, why is she not asserting
herself in that other apartment?

The other apartment is really a correctly solemn dining-room, of
which we have a glimpse through partly open folding-doors. At this
moment it is harbouring Mr. Shand's ladies' committee, who sit with
pens and foolscap round the large table, awaiting the advent of their
leader. There are nobly wise ones and some foolish ones among them,
for we are back in the strange days when it was considered
'unwomanly' for women to have minds. The Comtesse peeps at them with
curiosity, as they arrange their papers or are ushered into the
dining-room through a door which we cannot see. To her frivolous
ladyship they are a species of wild fowl, and she is specially amused
to find her niece among them. She demands an explanation as soon as
the communicating doors close.]

COMTESSE. Tell me since when has my dear Sybil become one of these
ladies? It is not like her.

(MAGGIE is obviously not clever enough to understand the woman
question. Her eye rests longingly on a half-finished stocking as she
innocently but densely replies:)

 MAGGIE. I think it was about the time that my husband took up their
cause.

(The COMTESSE has been hearing tales of LADY SYBIL and the barbarian;
and after having the grace to hesitate, she speaks with the
directness for which she is famed in Mayfair.)

COMTESSE. Mrs. Shand, excuse me for saying that if half of what I
hear be true, your husband is seeing that lady a great deal too
often. (MAGGIE is expressionless; she reaches for her stocking,
whereat her guest loses patience.) Oh, mon Dieu, put that down; you
can buy them at two francs the pair. Mrs. Shand, why do not you
compel yourself to take an intelligent interest in your husband's
work?

MAGGIE. I typewrite his speeches.

COMTESSE. But do you know what they are about?

MAGGIE. They are about various subjects.

COMTESSE. Oh!

(Did MAGGIE give her an unseen quizzical glance before demurely
resuming the knitting? One is not certain, as JOHN has come in, and
this obliterates her. A 'Scotsman on the make,' of whom DAVID has
spoken reverently, is still to be read--in a somewhat better bound
volume--in JOHN SHAND's person; but it is as doggedly honest a face
as ever; and he champions women, not for personal ends, but because
his blessed days of poverty gave him a light upon their needs. His
self-satisfaction, however, has increased, and he has pleasantly
forgotten some things. For instance, he can now call out 'Porter' at
railway stations without dropping his hands for the barrow. MAGGIE
introduces the COMTESSE, and he is still undaunted.)

JOHN. I remember you well--at Glasgow.

COMTESSE. It must be quite two years ago, Mr. Shand.

(JOHN has no objection to showing that he has had a classical
education.)

JOHN. Tempus fugit, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. I have not been much in this country since then, and I
return to find you a coming man.

(Fortunately his learning is tempered with modesty.)

JOHN. Oh, I don't know, I don't know.

COMTESSE. The Ladies' Champion.

(His modesty is tempered with a respect for truth.)

JOHN. Well, well.

COMTESSE. And you are about, as I understand, to introduce a bill to
give women an equal right with men to grow beards (which is all she
knows about it. He takes the remark literally.)

JOHN. There's nothing about beards in it, Comtesse. (She gives him
time to cogitate, and is pleased to note that there is no result.)
Have you typed my speech, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Yes; twenty-six pages. (She produces it from a drawer.)

(Perhaps JOHN wishes to impress the visitor.)

JOHN. I'm to give the ladies' committee a general idea of it. Just
see, Maggie, if I know the peroration. 'In conclusion, Mr. Speaker,
these are the reasonable demands of every intelligent Englishwoman'--
I had better say British woman--'and I am proud to nail them to my
flag'---

(The visitor is properly impressed.)

COMTESSE. Oho! defies his leaders!

JOHN. 'So long as I can do so without embarrassing the Government.'

COMTESSE. Ah, ah, Mr. Shand!

JOHN. 'I call upon the Front Bench, sir, loyally but firmly'--

COMTESSE. Firm again!

JOHN. --'either to accept my Bill, or to promise WITHOUT DELAY to
bring in one of their own; and if they decline to do so I solemnly
warn them that though I will not press the matter to a division just
now'--

COMTESSE. Ahem!

JOHN. 'I will bring it forward again in the near future.' And now
Comtesse, you know that I'm not going to divide--and not another soul
knows it.

COMTESSE. I am indeed flattered by your confidence.

JOHN. I've only told you because I don't care who knows now.

COMTESSE. Oh!

(Somehow MAGGIE seems to be dissatisfied.)

MAGGIE. But why is that, John?

JOHN. I daren't keep the Government in doubt any longer about what I
mean to do. I'll show the whips the speech privately to-night.

MAGGIE (who still wants to know). But not to go to a division is
hedging, isn't it? Is that strong?

JOHN. To make the speech at all, Maggie, is stronger than most would
dare. They would do for me if I went to a division.

MAGGIE. Bark but not bite?

JOHN. Now, now, Maggie, you're out of your depth.

MAGGIE. I suppose that's it.

(The COMTESSE remains in the shallows.)

COMTESSE. But what will the ladies say, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. They won't like it, Comtesse, but they've got to lump it.

(Here the maid appears with a card for MAGGIE, who considers it
quietly.)

JOHN. Any one of importance?

MAGGIE. No.

JOHN. Then I'm ready, Maggie.

(This is evidently an intimation that she is to open the folding-doors,
and he makes an effective entrance into the dining-room, his
thumb in his waistcoat. There is a delicious clapping of hands from
the committee, and the door closes. Not till then does MAGGIE, who
has grown thoughtful, tell her maid to admit the visitor.)

COMTESSE. Another lady, Mrs. Shand?

MAGGIE. The card says 'Mr. Charles Venables.'

(The COMTESSE is really interested at last.)

COMTESSE. Charles Venables! Do you know him?

MAGGIE. I think I call to mind meeting one of that name at the
Foreign Office party.

COMTESSE. One of that name! He who is a Minister of your Cabinet. But
as you know him so little why should he call on you?

MAGGIE. I wonder.

(MAGGIE's glance wanders to the drawer in which she has replaced
JOHN's speech.)

COMTESSE. Well, well, I shall take care of you, petite.

MAGGIE. Do you know him?

COMTESSE. Do I know him! The last time I saw him he asked me to--to--
hem!--ma cherie, it was thirty years ago.

MAGGIE. Thirty years!

COMTESSE. I was a pretty woman then. I dare say I shall detest him
now; but if I find I do not--let us have a little plot--I shall drop
this book; and then perhaps you will be so charming as--as not to be
here for a little while?

(MR. VENABLES, who enters, is such a courtly seigneur that he seems
to bring the eighteenth century with him; you feel that his sedan
chair is at the door. He stoops over MAGGIE's plebeian hand.)

VENABLES. I hope you will pardon my calling, Mrs. Shand; we had such
a pleasant talk the other evening.

(MAGGIE, of course, is at once deceived by his gracious manner.)

MAGGIE. I think it's kind of you. Do you know each other? The
Comtesse de la Briere.

(He repeats the name with some emotion, and the COMTESSE, half
mischievously, half sadly, holds a hand before her face.)

VENABLES. Comtesse.

COMTESSE. Thirty years, Mr. Venables.

(He gallantly removes the hand that screens her face.)

VENABLES. It does not seem so much.

(She gives him a similar scrutiny.)

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu, it seems all that.

(They smile rather ruefully. MAGGIE like a kind hostess relieves the
tension.)

MAGGIE. The Comtesse has taken a cottage in Surrey for the summer.

VENABLES. I am overjoyed.

COMTESSE. No, Charles, you are not. You no longer care. Fickle one!
And it is only thirty years.

(He sinks into a chair beside her.)

VENABLES. Those heavenly evenings, Comtesse, on the Bosphorus.

COMTESSE. I refuse to talk of them. I hate you.

(But she drops the book, and MAGGIE fades from the room. It is not a
very clever departure, and the old diplomatist smiles. Then he sighs
a beautiful sigh, for he does all things beautifully.)

VENABLES. It is moonlight, Comtesse, on the Golden Horn.

COMTESSE. Who are those two young things in a caique?

VENABLES. Is he the brave Leander, Comtesse, and is she Hero of the
Lamp?

COMTESSE. No, she is the foolish wife of the French Ambassador, and
he is a good-for-nothing British attache trying to get her husband's
secrets out of her.

VENABLES. Is it possible! They part at a certain garden gate.

COMTESSE. Oh, Charles, Charles!

VENABLES. But you promised to come back; I waited there till dawn.
Blanche, if you HAD come back--

COMTESSE. How is Mrs. Venables?

VENABLES. She is rather poorly. I think it's gout.

COMTESSE. And you?

VENABLES. I creak a little in the mornings.

COMTESSE. So do I. There is such a good man at Wiesbaden.

VENABLES. The Homburg fellow is better. The way he patched me up last
summer--Oh, Lord, Lord!

COMTESSE. Yes, Charles, the game is up; we are two old fogies. (They
groan in unison; then she raps him sharply on the knuckles.) Tell me,
sir, what are you doing here?

VENABLES. Merely a friendly call.

COMTESSE. I do not believe it.

VENABLES. The same woman; the old delightful candour.

COMTESSE. The same man; the old fibs. (She sees that the door is
asking a question.) Yes, come, Mrs. Shand, I have had quite enough of
him; I warn you he is here for some crafty purpose.

MAGGIE (drawing back timidly). Surely not?

VENABLES. Really, Comtesse, you make conversation difficult. To show
that my intentions are innocent, Mrs. Shand, I propose that you
choose the subject.

MAGGIE (relieved). There, Comtesse.

VENABLES. I hope your husband is well?

MAGGIE. Yes, thank you. (With a happy thought) I decide that we talk
about him.

VENABLES. If you wish it.

COMTESSE. Be careful; HE has chosen the subject.

MAGGIE. _I_ chose it, didn't I?

VENABLES. You know you did.

MAGGIE (appealingly). You admire John?

VENABLES. Very much. But he puzzles me a little. You Scots, Mrs.
Shand, are such a mixture of the practical and the emotional that you
escape out of an Englishman's hand like a trout.

MAGGIE (open-eyed). Do we?

VENABLES. Well, not you, but your husband. I have known few men make
a worse beginning in the House. He had the most atrocious bow-wow
public-park manner---

COMTESSE. I remember that manner!

MAGGIE. No, he hadn't.

VENABLES (soothingly). At first. But by his second session he had
shed all that, and he is now a pleasure to listen to. By the way,
Comtesse, have you found any dark intention in that?

COMTESSE. You wanted to know whether he talks over these matter with
his wife; and she has told you that he does not.

MAGGIE (indignantly). I haven't said a word about it, have I?

VENABLES. Not a word. Then, again, I admire him for his impromptu
speeches.

MAGGIE. What is impromptu?

VENABLES. Unprepared. They have contained some grave blunders not so
much of judgment as of taste---

MAGGIE (hotly). _I_ don't think so.

VENABLES. Pardon me. But he has righted himself subsequently in the
neatest way. I have always found that the man whose second thoughts
are good is worth watching. Well, Comtesse, I see you have something
to say.

COMTESSE. You are wondering whether she can tell you who gives him
his second thoughts.

MAGGIE. Gives them to John? I would like to see anybody try to give
thoughts to John.

VENABLES. Quite so.

COMTESSE. Is there anything more that has roused your admiration
Charles?

VENABLES (purring). Let me see. Yes, we are all much edified by his
humour.

COMTESSE (surprised indeed). His humour? That man!

MAGGIE (with hauteur). Why not?

VENABLES. I assure you, Comtesse, some of the neat things in his
speeches convulse the house. A word has even been coined for them--
Shandisms.

COMTESSE (slowly recovering from a blow). Humour!

VENABLES. In conversation, I admit, he strikes one as being--ah--
somewhat lacking in humour.

COMTESSE (pouncing). You are wondering who supplies his speeches with
the humour.

MAGGIE. Supplies John?

VENABLES. Now that you mention it, some of his Shandisms do have a
curiously feminine quality.

COMTESSE. You have thought it might be a woman.

VENABLES. Really, Comtesse--

COMTESSE. I see it all. Charles, you thought it might be the wife!

VENABLES (flinging up his hands). I own up.

MAGGIE (bewildered). Me?

VENABLES. Forgive me, I see I was wrong.

MAGGIE (alarmed). Have I been doing John any harm?

VENABLES. On the contrary, I am relieved to know that there are no
hairpins in his speeches. If he is at home, Mrs. Shand, may I see
him? I am going to be rather charming to him.

MAGGIE (drawn in two directions). Yes, he is--oh yes--but--

VENABLES. That is to say, Comtesse, if he proves himself the man I
believe him to be.

(This arrests MAGGIE almost as she has reached the dining-room door.)

MAGGIE (hesitating). He is very busy just now.

VENABLES (smiling). I think he will see me.

MAGGIE. Is it something about his speech?

VENABLES (the smile hardening). Well, yes, it is.

MAGGIE. Then I dare say I could tell you what you want to know
without troubling him, as I've been typing it.

VENABLES (with a sigh). I don't acquire information in that way.

COMTESSE. I trust not.

MAGGIE. There's no secret about it. He is to show it to the whips
tonight.

VENABLES (sharply). You are sure of that?

COMTESSE. It is quite true, Charles. I heard him say so; and indeed
he repeated what he called the 'peroration' before me.

MAGGIE. I know it by heart. (She plays a bold game.) 'These are the
demands of all intelligent British women, and I am proud to nail them
to my flag'--

COMTESSE. The very words, Mrs. Shand.

MAGGIE (looking at her imploringly). 'And I don't care how they may
embarrass the Government.' (The COMTESSE is bereft of speech, so
suddenly has she been introduced to the real MAGGIE SHAND). 'If the
right honourable gentleman will give us his pledge to introduce a
similar Bill this session I will willingly withdraw mine; but
otherwise I solemnly warn him that I will press the matter now to a
division.'

(She turns her face from the great man; she has gone white.)

VENABLES (after a pause). Capital.

(The blood returns to MAGGIE's heart.)

COMTESSE (who is beginning to enjoy herself very much). Then you are
pleased to know that he means to, as you say, go to a division?

VENABLES. Delighted. The courage of it will be the making of him.

COMTESSE. I see.

VENABLES. Had he been to hedge we should have known that he was a
pasteboard knight and have disregarded him.

COMTESSE. I see.

(She desires to catch the eye of MAGGIE, but it is carefully turned
from her.)

VENABLES. Mrs. Shand, let us have him in at once.

COMTESSE. Yes, yes, indeed.

(MAGGIE's anxiety returns, but she has to call JOHN in.)

JOHN (impressed). Mr. Venables! This is an honour.

VENABLES. How are you, Shand?

JOHN. Sit down, sit down. (Becoming himself again.) I can guess what
you have come about.

VENABLES. Ah, you Scotsmen.

JOHN. Of course I know I'm harassing the Government a good deal--

VENABLES (blandly). Not at all, Shand. The Government are very
pleased.

JOHN. You don't expect me to believe that?

VENABLES. I called here to give you the proof of it. You may know
that we are to have a big meeting at Leeds on the 24th, when two
Ministers are to speak. There is room for a third speaker, and I am
authorised to offer that place to you.

JOHN. To me!

VENABLES. Yes.

JOHN (swelling). It would be--the Government taking me up.

VENABLES. Don't make too much of it; it would be an acknowledgment
that they look upon you as one of their likely young men.

MAGGIE. John!

JOHN (not found wanting in a trying hour). It's a bribe. You are
offering me this on condition that I don't make my speech. How can
you think so meanly of me as to believe that I would play the women's
cause false for the sake of my own advancement. I refuse your bribe.

VENABLES (liking him for the first time). Good. But you are wrong.
There are no conditions, and we want you to make your speech. Now do
you accept?

JOHN (still suspicious). If you make me the same offer after you have
read it. I insist on your reading it first.

VENABLES (sighing). By all means.

(MAGGIE is in an agony as she sees JOHN hand the speech to his
leader. On the other hand, the COMTESSE thrills.)

But I assure you we look on the speech as a small matter. The
important thing is your intention of going to a division; and we
agree to that also.

JOHN (losing his head). What's that?

VENABLES. Yes, we agree.

JOHN. But--but--why, you have been threatening to excommunicate me if
I dared.

VENABLES. All done to test you, Shand.

JOHN. To test me?

VENABLES. We know that a division on your Bill can have no serious
significance; we shall see to that. And so the test was to be whether
you had the pluck to divide the House. Had you been intending to talk
big in this speech, and then hedge, through fear of the Government,
they would have had no further use for you.

JOHN (heavily). I understand. (But there is one thing he cannot
understand, which is, why VENABLES should be so sure that he is not
to hedge.)

VENABLES (turning over the pages carelessly). Any of your good things
in this, Shand?

JOHN (whose one desire is to get the pages back). No, I--no--it isn t
necessary you should read it now.

VENABLES (from politeness only). Merely for my own pleasure. I shall
look through it this evening. (He rolls up the speech to put it in
his pocket. JOHN turns despairingly to MAGGIE, though well aware that
no help can come from her.)

MAGGIE. That's the only copy there is, John. (To VENABLES) Let me
make a fresh one, and send it to you in an hour or two.

VENABLES (good-naturedly). I could not put you to that trouble, Mrs.
Shand. I will take good care of it.

MAGGIE. If anything were to happen to you on the way home, wouldn't
whatever is in your pocket be considered to be the property of your
heirs?

VENABLES (laughing). Now there is forethought! Shand, I think that
after that--! (He returns the speech to JOHN, whose hand swallows it
greedily.) She is Scotch too, Comtesse.

COMTESSE (delighted). Yes, she is Scotch too.

VENABLES. Though the only persons likely to do for me in the street,
Shand, are your ladies' committee. Ever since they took the horse out
of my brougham, I can scent them a mile away.

COMTESSE. A mile? Charles, peep in there.

(He softly turns the handle of the dining-room door, and realises
that his scent is not so good as he had thought it. He bids his
hostess and the COMTESSE good-bye in a burlesque whisper and tiptoes
off to safer places. JOHN having gone out with him, MAGGIE can no
longer avoid the COMTESSE's reproachful eye. That much injured lady
advances upon her with accusing finger.)

COMTESSE. So, madam!

(MAGGIE is prepared for her.)

MAGGIE. I don't know what you mean.

COMTESSE. Yes, you do. I mean that there IS some one who 'helps' our
Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE. There's not.

COMTESSE. And it IS a woman, and it's you.

MAGGIE. I help in the little things.

COMTESSE. The little things! You are the Pin he picked up and that is
to make his fortune. And now what I want to know is whether your John
is aware that you help at all.

(JOHN returns, and at once provides the answer.)

JOHN. Maggie, Comtesse, I've done it again!

MAGGIE. I'm so glad, John.

(The COMTESSE is in an ecstasy.)

COMTESSE. And all because you were not to hedge, Mr. Shand.

(His appeal to her with the wistfulness of a schoolboy makes him
rather attractive.)

JOHN. You won't tell on me, Comtesse! (He thinks it out.) They had
just guessed I would be firm because they know I'm a strong man. You
little saw, Maggie, what a good turn you were doing me when you said
you wanted to make another copy of the speech.

(She is dense.)

MAGGIE. How, John?

JOHN. Because now I can alter the end.

(She is enlightened.)

MAGGIE. So you can!

JOHN. Here's another lucky thing, Maggie: I hadn't told the ladies'
committee that I was to hedge, and so they need never know. Comtesse,
I tell you there's a little cherub who sits up aloft and looks after
the career of John Shand.

(The COMTESSE looks not aloft but toward the chair at present
occupied by MAGGIE.)

COMTESSE. Where does she sit, Mr. Shand?

(He knows that women are not well read.)

JOHN. It's just a figure of speech.

(He returns airily to his committee room; and now again you may hear
the click of MAGGIE's needles. They no longer annoy the COMTESSE; she
is setting them to music.)

COMTESSE. It is not down here she sits, Mrs. Shand, knitting a
stocking.

MAGGIE. No, it isn't.

COMTESSE. And when I came in I gave him credit for everything; even
for the prettiness of the room!

MAGGIE. He has beautiful taste.

COMTESSE. Good-bye, Scotchy. MAGGIE. Good-bye, Comtesse, and thank
you for coming.

COMTESSE. Good-bye--Miss Pin.

(MAGGIE rings genteelly.)

MAGGIE. Good-bye.

(The COMTESSE is now lost in admiration of her.)

COMTESSE. You divine little wife. He can't be worthy of it, no man
could be worthy of it. Why do you do it?

(MAGGIE shivers a little.)

MAGGIE. He loves to think he does it all himself; that's the way of
men. I'm six years older than he is. I'm plain, and I have no charm.
I shouldn't have let him marry me. I'm trying to make up for it.

(The COMTESSE kisses her and goes away. MAGGIE, somewhat foolishly,
resumes her knitting.)

(Some days later this same room is listening--with the same
inattention--to the outpouring of JOHN SHAND's love for the lady of
the hiccoughs. We arrive--by arrangement--rather late; and thus we
miss some of the most delightful of the pangs.

One can see that these two are playing no game, or, if they are, that
they little know it. The wonders of the world (so strange are the
instruments chosen by Love) have been revealed to JOHN in hiccoughs;
he shakes in SYBIL's presence; never were more swimming eyes; he who
has been of a wooden face till now, with ways to match, has gone on
flame like a piece of paper; emotion is in flood in him. We may be
almost fond of JOHN for being so worshipful of love. Much has come to
him that we had almost despaired of his acquiring, including nearly
all the divine attributes except that sense of humour. The beautiful
SYBIL has always possessed but little of it also, and what she had
has been struck from her by Cupid's flail. Naked of the saving grace,
they face each other in awful rapture.)

JOHN. In a room, Sybil, I go to you as a cold man to a fire. You fill
me like a peal of bells in an empty house.

(She is being brutally treated by the dear impediment, for which
hiccough is such an inadequate name that even to spell it is an
abomination though a sign of ability. How to describe a sound that is
noiseless? Let us put it thus, that when SYBIL wants to say something
very much there are little obstacles in her way; she falters, falls
perhaps once, and then is over, the while her appealing orbs beg you
not to be angry with her. We may express those sweet pauses in
precious dots, which some clever person can afterwards string
together and make a pearl necklace of them.)

SYBIL. I should not ... let you say it, ... but ... you ... say it so
I beautifully.

JOHN. You must have guessed.

SYBIL. I dreamed ... I feared ... but you were ... Scotch, and I
didn't know what to think.

JOHN. Do you know what first attracted me to you, Sybil? It was your
insolence. I thought, 'I'll break her insolence for her.'

SYBIL. And I thought... 'I'll break his str...ength!'

JOHN. And now your cooing voice plays round me; the softness of you,
Sybil, in your pretty clothes makes me think of young birds. (The
impediment is now insurmountable; she has to swim for it, she swims
toward him.) It is you who inspire my work.

(He thrills to find that she can be touched without breaking.)

SYBIL. I am so glad... so proud...

JOHN. And others know it, Sybil, as well as I. Only yesterday the
Comtesse said to me, 'No man could get on so fast unaided. Cherchez
la femme, Mr. Shand.'

SYBIL. Auntie said that?

JOHN. I said 'Find her yourself, Comtesse.'

SYBIL. And she?

JOHN. She said 'I have found her,' and I said in my blunt way, 'You
mean Lady Sybil,' and she went away laughing.

SYBIL. Laughing?

JOHN. I seem to amuse the woman.

(Sybil grows sad.)

SYBIL. If Mrs. Shand--It is so cruel to her. Whom did you say she had
gone to the station to meet?

JOHN. Her father and brothers.

SYBIL. It is so cruel to them. We must think no more of this. It is
mad... ness.

JOHN. It's fate. Sybil, let us declare our love openly.

SYBIL. You can't ask that, now in the first moment that you tell me
of it.

JOHN. The one thing I won't do even for you is to live a life of
underhand.

SYBIL. The... blow to her.

JOHN. Yes. But at least she has always known that I never loved her.

SYBIL. It is asking me to give... up everything, every one, for you.

JOHN. It's too much.

(JOHN is humble at last.)

SYBIL. To a woman who truly loves, even that is not too much. Oh! it
is not I who matter--it is you.

JOHN. My dear, my dear.

SYBIL. So gladly would I do it to save you; but, oh, if it were to
bring you down!

JOHN. Nothing can keep me down if I have you to help me.

SYBIL. I am dazed, John, I...

JOHN. My love, my love.

SYBIL. I... oh... here...

JOHN. Be brave, Sybil, be brave.

SYBIL. ..........

(In this bewilderment of pearls she melts into his arms. MAGGIE
happens to open the door just then; but neither fond heart hears
her.)

JOHN. I can't walk along the streets, Sybil, without looking in all
the shop windows for what I think would become you best. (As
awkwardly as though his heart still beat against corduroy, he takes
from his pocket a pendant and its chain. He is shy, and she drops
pearls over the beauty of the ruby which is its only stone.) It is a
drop of my blood, Sybil.

(Her lovely neck is outstretched, and he puts the chain round it.
MAGGIE withdraws as silently as she had come; but perhaps the door
whispered 'd--n' as it closed, for SYBIL wakes out of Paradise.)

SYBIL. I thought---Did the door shut?

JOHN. It was shut already.

(Perhaps it is only that SYBIL is bewildered to find herself once
again in a world that has doors.)

SYBIL. It seemed to me---

JOHN. There was nothing. But I think I hear voices; they may have
arrived.

(Some pretty instinct makes SYBIL go farther from him. MAGGIE kindly
gives her time for this by speaking before opening the door.)

MAGGIE. That will do perfectly, David. The maid knows where to put
them. (She comes in.) They've come, John; they WOULD help with the
luggage. (JOHN goes out. MAGGIE is agreeably surprised to find a
visitor.) How do you do, Lady Sybil? This is nice of you.

SYBIL. I was so sorry not to find you in, Mrs. Shand.

(The impediment has run away. It is only for those who love it.)

MAGGIE. Thank you. You'll sit down?

SYBIL. I think not; your relatives---

MAGGIE. They will be so proud to see that you are my friend.

(If MAGGIE were less simple her guest would feel more comfortable.
She tries to make conversation.)

SYBIL. It is their first visit to London?

(Instead of relieving her anxiety on this point, MAGGIE has a long
look at the gorgeous armful.)

MAGGIE. I'm glad you are so beautiful, Lady Sybil.

(The beautiful one is somehow not flattered. She pursues her
investigations with growing uneasiness.)

SYBIL. One of them is married now, isn't he? (Still there is no
answer; MAGGIE continues looking at her, and shivers slightly.) Have
they travelled from Scotland to-day? Mrs. Shand, why do you look at
me so? The door did open! (MAGGIE nods.) What are you to do?

MAGGIE. That would be telling. Sit down, my pretty.

(As SYBIL subsides into what the Wylies with one glance would call
the best chair, MAGGIE's men-folk are brought in by JOHN, all
carrying silk hats and looking very active after their long rest in
the train. They are gazing about them. They would like this lady,
they would like JOHN, they would even like MAGGIE to go away for a
little and leave them to examine the room. Is that linen on the
walls, for instance, or just paper? Is the carpet as thick as it
feels, or is there brown paper beneath it? Had MAGGIE got anything
off that bookcase on account of the worm-hole? DAVID even discovers
that we were simpletons when we said there was nothing in the room
that pretended to be what it was not. He taps the marble mantelpiece,
and is favourably impressed by the tinny sound.)

DAVID. Very fine imitation. It's a capital house, Maggie.

MAGGIE. I'm so glad you like it. Do you know one another? This is my
father and my brothers, Lady Sybil.

(The lovely form inclines towards them. ALICK and DAVID remain firm
on their legs, but JAMES totters.)

JAMES. A ladyship! Well done, Maggie.

ALICK (sharply). James! I remember you, my lady.

MAGGIE. Sit down, father. This is the study.

(JAMES wanders round it inquisitively until called to order.)

SYBIL. You must be tired after your long journey.

DAVID (drawing the portraits of himself and partners in one lightning
sketch). Tired, your ladyship? We sat on cushioned seats the whole
way.

JAMES (looking about him for the chair you sit on). Every seat in
this room is cushioned.

MAGGIE. You may say all my life is cushioned now, James, by this dear
man of mine.

(She gives JOHN'S shoulder a loving pressure, which SYBIL feels is a
telegraphic communication to herself in a cypher that she cannot
read. ALICK and the BROTHERS bask in the evidence of MAGGIE's
happiness.)

JOHN (uncomfortably). And is Elizabeth hearty, James?

JAMES (looking down his nose in the manner proper to young husbands
when addressed about their wives). She's very well, I thank you
kindly.

MAGGIE. James is a married man now, Lady Sybil.

(SYBIL murmurs her congratulations.)

JAMES. I thank you kindly. (Courageously) Yes, I'm married. (He looks
at DAVID and ALICK to see if they are smiling; and they are.) It
wasn't a case of being catched; it was entirely of my own free will.
(He looks again; and the mean fellows are smiling still.) Is your
ladyship married?

SYBIL. Alas! no.

DAVID. James! (Politely.) You will be yet, my lady.

(SYBIL indicates that he is kind indeed.)

JOHN. Perhaps they would like you to show them their rooms, Maggie?
DAVID. Fine would we like to see all the house as well as the
sleeping accommodation. But first--(He gives his father the look with
which chairmen call on the next speaker.)

ALICK. I take you, David. (He produces a paper parcel from a roomy
pocket.) It wasn't likely, Mr. Shand, that we should forget the day.

JOHN. The day?

DAVID. The second anniversary of your marriage. We came purposely for
the day.

JAMES (his fingers itching to take the parcel from his father). It's
a lace shawl, Maggie, from the three of us, a pure Tobermory; you
would never dare wear it if you knew the cost.

(The shawl in its beauty is revealed, and MAGGIE hails it with little
cries of joy. She rushes at the donors and kisses each of them just
as if she were a pretty woman. They are much pleased and give
expression to their pleasure in a not very dissimilar manner.)

ALICK. Havers.

DAVID. Havers.

JAMES. Havers.

JOHN. It's a very fine shawl.

(He should not have spoken, for he has set JAMES'S volatile mind
working.)

JAMES. You may say so. What did you give her, Mr. Shand?

JOHN (suddenly deserted by God and man). Me?

ALICK. Yes, yes, let's see it.

JOHN. Oh--I--

(He is not deserted by MAGGIE, but she can think of no way out.)

SYBIL (prompted by the impediment, which is in hiding, quite close).
Did he ... forget?

(There is more than a touch of malice in the question. It is a
challenge, and the Wylies as a family are almost too quick to accept
a challenge.)

MAGGIE (lifting the gage of battle). John forget? Never! It's a
pendant, father.

(The impediment bolts. JOHN rises.)

ALICK. A pendant? One of those things on a chain?

(He grins, remembering how once, about sixty years ago, he and a lady
and a pendant--but we have no time for this.)

MAGGIE. Yes.

DAVID (who has felt the note of antagonism and is troubled). You were
slow in speaking of it, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE (This is her fight.) He was shy, because he thought you might
blame him for extravagance.

DAVID (relieved). Oh, that's it.

JAMES (licking his lips). Let's see it.

MAGGIE (a daughter of the devil). Where did you put it, John?

(JOHN's mouth opens but has nothing to contribute.)

SYBIL (the impediment has stolen back again). Perhaps it has been ...
mislaid.

(The BROTHERS echo the word incredulously.)

MAGGIE. Not it. I can't think where we laid it down, John. It's not
on that table, is it, James? (The Wylies turn to look, and MAGGIE's
hand goes out to LADY SYBIL: JOHN SHAND, witness. It is a very
determined hand, and presently a pendant is placed in it.) Here it
is! (ALICK and the BROTHERS cluster round it, weigh it and appraise
it.)

ALICK. Preserve me. Is that stone real, Mr. Shand?

JOHN (who has begun to look his grimmest). Yes.

MAGGIE (who is now ready, if he wishes it, to take him on too). John
says it's a drop of his blood.

JOHN (wishing it). And so it is.

DAVID. Well said, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE (scared). And now, if you'll come with me, I think John has
something he wants to talk over with Lady Sybil. (Recovering and
taking him on.) Or would you prefer, John, to say it before us all?

SYBIL (gasping). No!

JOHN (flinging back his head). Yes, I prefer to say it before you
all.

MAGGIE (flinging back hers). Then sit down again.

(The WYLIES wonderingly obey.)

SYBIL. Mr. Shand, Mr. Shand!--

JOHN. Maggie knows, and it was only for her I was troubled. Do you
think I'm afraid of them? (With mighty relief) Now we can be open.

DAVID (lowering). What is it? What's wrong, John Shand?

JOHN (facing him squarely). It was to Lady Sybil I gave the pendant,
and all my love with it. (Perhaps JAMES utters a cry, but the silence
of ALICK and DAVID is more terrible.)

SYBIL (whose voice is smaller than we had thought). What are you to
do?

(If is to MAGGIE she is speaking.)

DAVID. She'll leave it for us to do.

JOHN. That's what I want.

(The lords of creation look at the ladies.)

MAGGIE (interpreting). You and I are expected to retire, Lady Sybil,
while the men decide our fate. (SYBIL is ready to obey the law, but
MAGGIE remains seated.) Man's the oak, woman's the ivy. Which of us
is it that's to cling to you, John?

(With three stalwarts glaring at him, JOHN rather grandly takes
SYBIL'S hand. They are two against the world.)

SYBIL (a heroine). I hesitated, but I am afraid no longer; whatever
he asks of me I will do.

(Evidently the first thing he asks of her is to await him in the
dining-room.)

It will mean surrendering everything for him. I am glad it means all
that. (She passes into the dining-room looking as pretty as a kiss.)

MAGGIE. So that settles it.

ALICK. I'm thinking that doesn't settle it.

DAVID. No, by God! (But his love for MAGGIE steadies him. There is
even a note of entreaty in his voice.) Have you nothing to say to
her, man?

JOHN. I have things to say to her, but not before you.

DAVID (sternly). Go away, Maggie. Leave him to us.

JAMES (who thinks it is about time that he said something). Yes,
leave him to us.

MAGGIE. No, David, I want to hear what is to become of me; I promise
not to take any side.

(And sitting by the fire she resumes her knitting. The four regard
her as on an evening at The Pans a good many years ago.)

DAVID (barking). How long has this been going on?

JOHN. If you mean how long has that lady been the apple of my eye,
I'm not sure; but I never told her of it until today.

MAGGIE (thoughtfully and without dropping a stitch). I think it
wasn't till about six months ago, John, that she began to be very
dear to you. At first you liked to bring in her name when talking to
me, so that I could tell you of any little things I might have heard
she was doing. But afterwards, as she became more and more to you,
you avoided mentioning her name.

JOHN (surprised). Did you notice that?

MAGGIE (in her old-fashioned way). Yes.

JOHN. I tried to be done with it for your sake. I've often had a sore
heart for you, Maggie.

JAMES. You're proving it!

MAGGIE. Yes, James, he had. I've often seen him looking at me very
sorrowfully of late because of what was in his mind; and many a
kindly little thing he has done for me that he didn't use to do.

JOHN. You noticed that too!

MAGGIE. Yes.

DAVID (controlling himself). Well, we won't go into that; the thing
to be thankful for is that it's ended.

ALICK (who is looking very old). Yes, yes, that's the great thing.

JOHN. All useless, sir, it's not ended; it's to go on.

DAVID. There's a devil in you, John Shand.

JOHN (who is an unhappy man just now). I dare say there is. But do
you think he had a walk over, Mr. David?

JAMES. Man, I could knock you down!

MAGGIE. There's not one of you could knock John down.

DAVID (exasperated). Quiet, Maggie. One would think you were taking
his part.

MAGGIE. Do you expect me to desert him at the very moment that he
needs me most?

DAVID. It's him that's deserting you.

JOHN. Yes, Maggie, that's what it is.

ALICK. Where's your marriage vow? And your church attendances?

JAMES (with terrible irony). And your prize for moral philosophy?

JOHN (recklessly). All gone whistling down the wind.

DAVID. I suppose you understand that you'll have to resign your seat.

JOHN (his underlip much in evidence). There are hundreds of seats,
but there's only one John Shand.

MAGGIE (but we don't hear her). That's how I like to hear him speak.

DAVID (the ablest person in the room). Think, man, I'm old by you,
and for long I've had a pride in you. It will be beginning the world
again with more against you than there was eight years ago.

JOHN. I have a better head to begin it with than I had eight years
ago.

ALICK (hoping this will bite). She'll have her own money, David!

JOHN. She's as poor as a mouse.

JAMES (thinking possibly of his Elizabeth's mother). We'll go to her
friends, and tell them all. They'll stop it.

JOHN. She's of age.

JAMES. They'll take her far away.

JOHN. I'll follow, and tear her from them.

ALICK. Your career---

JOHN (to his credit). To hell with my career. Do you think I don't
know I'm on the rocks? What can you, or you, or you, understand of
the passions of a man! I've fought, and I've given in. When a ship
founders, as I suppose I'm foundering, it's not a thing to yelp at.
Peace, all of you. (He strides into the dining-room, where we see him
at times pacing the floor.)

DAVID (to JAMES, who gives signs of a desire to take off his coat).
Let him be. We can't budge him. (With bitter wisdom) It's true what
he says, true at any rate about me. What do I know of the passions of
a man! I'm up against something I don't understand.

ALICK. It's something wicked.

DAVID. I dare say it is, but it's something big.

JAMES. It's that damned charm.

MAGGIE (still by the fire). That's it. What was it that made you
fancy Elizabeth, James?

JAMES (sheepishly). I can scarcely say.

MAGGIE. It was her charm.

DAVID. HER charm!

JAMES (pugnaciously). Yes, HER charm.

MAGGIE. She had charm for James.

(This somehow breaks them up. MAGGIE goes from one to another with an
odd little smile flickering on her face.)

DAVID. Put on your things, Maggie, and we'll leave his house.

MAGGIE (patting his kind head). Not me, David.

(This is a MAGGIE they have known but forgotten; all three brighten.)

DAVID. You haven't given in!

(The smile flickers and expires.)

MAGGIE. I want you all to go upstairs, and let me have my try now.

JAMES. Your try?

ALICK. Maggie, you put new life into me.

JAMES. And into me.

(DAVID says nothing; the way he grips her shoulder says it for him.)

MAGGIE. I'll save him, David, if I can.

DAVID. Does he deserve to be saved after the way he has treated you?

MAGGIE. You stupid David. What has that to do with it.

(When they have gone, JOHN comes to the door of the dining-room.
There is welling up in him a great pity for MAGGIE, but it has to
subside a little when he sees that the knitting is still in her hand.
No man likes to be so soon supplanted. SYBIL follows, and the two of
them gaze at the active needles.)

MAGGIE (perceiving that she has visitors). Come in, John. Sit down,
Lady Sybil, and make yourself comfortable. I'm afraid we've put you
about.

(She is, after all, only a few years older than they and scarcely
looks her age; yet it must have been in some such way as this that
the little old woman who lived in a shoe addressed her numerous
progeny.)

JOHN. I'm mortal sorry, Maggie.

SYBIL (who would be more courageous if she could hold his hand). And
I also.

MAGGIE (soothingly). I'm sure you are. But as it can't be helped I
see no reason why we three shouldn't talk the matter over in a
practical way.

(SYBIL looks doubtful, but JOHN hangs on desperately to the word
practical.)

JOHN. If you could understand, Maggie, what an inspiration she is to
me and my work.

SYBIL. Indeed, Mrs. Shand, I think of nothing else.

MAGGIE. That's fine. That's as it should be.

SYBIL (talking too much). Mrs. Shand, I think you are very kind to
take it so reasonably.

MAGGIE. That's the Scotch way. When were you thinking of leaving me,
John?

(Perhaps this is the Scotch way also; but SYBIL is English, and from
the manner in which she starts you would say that something has
fallen on her toes.)

JOHN (who has heard nothing fall). I think, now that it has come to a
breach, the sooner the better. (His tone becomes that of JAMES when
asked after the health of his wife.) When it is convenient to you,
Maggie.

MAGGIE (making a rapid calculation). It couldn't well be before
Wednesday. That's the day the laundry comes home.

(SYBIL has to draw in her toes again.)

JOHN. And it's the day the House rises. (Stifling a groan) It may be
my last appearance in the House.

SYBIL (her arms yearning for him). No, no, please don't say that.

MAGGIE (surveying him sympathetically). You love the House, don't
you, John, next to her? It's a pity you can't wait till after your
speech at Leeds. Mr. Venables won't let you speak at Leeds, I fear,
if you leave me.

JOHN. What a chance it would have been. But let it go.

MAGGIE. The meeting is in less than a month. Could you not make it
such a speech that they would be very loth to lose you?

JOHN (swelling). That's what was in my mind.

SYBIL (with noble confidence). And he could have done it.

MAGGIE. Then we've come to something practical.

JOHN (exercising his imagination with powerful effect). No, it
wouldn't be fair to you if I was to stay on now.

MAGGIE. Do you think I'll let myself be considered when your career
is at stake. A month will soon pass for me; I'll have a lot of
packing to do.

JOHN. It's noble of you, but I don't deserve it, and I can't take it
from you.

MAGGIE. Now's the time, Lady Sybil, for you to have one of your
inspiring ideas.

SYBIL (ever ready). Yes, yes--but what?

(It is odd that they should both turn to MAGGIE at this moment.)

MAGGIE (who has already been saying it to herself). What do you think
of this: I can stay on here with my father and brothers; and you,
John, can go away somewhere and devote yourself to your speech?

SYBIL. Yes.

JOHN. That might be. (Considerately) Away from both of you. Where
could I go?

SYBIL (ever ready). Where?

MAGGIE. I know.

(She has called up a number on the telephone before they have time to
check her.)

JOHN (on his dignity). Don't be in such a hurry, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Is this Lamb's Hotel? Put me on to the Comtesse de la Briere,
please.

SYBIL (with a sinking). What do you want with Auntie?

MAGGIE. Her cottage in the country would be the very place. She
invited John and me.

JOHN. Yes, but--

MAGGIE (arguing). And Mr. Venables is to be there. Think of the
impression you could make on HIM, seeing him daily for three weeks.

JOHN. There's something in that.

MAGGIE. Is it you, Comtesse? I'm Maggie Shand.

SYBIL. You are not to tell her that--?

MAGGIE. No. (To the COMTESSE) Oh, I'm very well, never was better.
Yes, yes; you see I can't, because my folk have never been in London
before, and I must take them about and show them the sights. But John
could come to you alone; why not?

JOHN (with proper pride). If she's not keen to have me, I won't go.

MAGGIE. She's very keen. Comtesse, I could come for a day by and by
to see how you are getting on. Yes--yes--certainly. (To JOHN) She
says she'll be delighted.

JOHN (thoughtfully). You're not doing this, Maggie, thinking that my
being absent from Sybil for a few weeks can make any difference? Of
course it's natural you should want us to keep apart, but--

MAGGIE (grimly). I'm founding no hope on keeping you apart, John.

JOHN. It's what other wives would do.

MAGGIE. I promised to be different.

JOHN (his position as a strong man assured). Then tell her I accept.
(He wanders back into the dining-room.)

SYBIL. I think--(she is not sure what she thinks)--I think you are
very wonderful.

MAGGIE. Was that John calling to you?

SYBIL. Was it? (She is glad to join him in the dining-room.)

MAGGIE. Comtesse, hold the line a minute. (She is alone, and she has
nearly reached the end of her self-control. She shakes emotionally
and utters painful little cries; there is something she wants to do,
and she is both to do it. But she does it.) Are you there, Comtesse?
There's one other thing, dear Comtesse; I want you to invite Lady
Sybil also; yes, for the whole time that John is there. No, I'm not
mad; as a great favour to me; yes, I have a very particular reason,
but I won't tell you what it is; oh, call me Scotchy as much as you
like, but consent; do, do, do. Thank you, thank you, good-bye.

(She has control of herself now, and is determined not to let it slip
from her again. When they reappear the stubborn one is writing a
letter.)

JOHN. I thought I heard the telephone again.

MAGGIE (looking up from her labours). It was the Comtesse; she says
she's to invite Lady Sybil to the cottage at the same time.

SYBIL. Me!

JOHN. To invite Sybil? Then of course I won't go, Maggie.

MAGGIE (wondering seemingly at these niceties). What does it matter?
Is anything to be considered except the speech? (It has been admitted
that she was a little devil.) And, with Sybil on the spot, John, to
help you and inspire you, what a speech it will be!

JOHN (carried away). Maggie, you really are a very generous woman.

SYBIL (convinced at last). She is indeed.

JOHN. And you're queer too. How many women in the circumstances would
sit down to write a letter?

MAGGIE. It's a letter to you, John.

JOHN. To me?

MAGGIE. I'll give it to you when it's finished, but I ask you not to
open it till your visit to the Comtesse ends.

JOHN. What is it about?

MAGGIE. It's practical.

SYBIL (rather faintly). Practical? (She has heard the word so
frequently to-day that it is beginning to have a Scotch sound. She
feels she ought to like MAGGIE, but that she would like her better if
they were farther apart. She indicates that the doctors are troubled
about her heart, and murmuring her adieux she goes. JOHN, who is
accompanying her, pauses at the door.)

JOHN (with a queer sort of admiration for his wife). Maggie, I wish I
was fond of you.

MAGGIE (heartily). I wish you were, John.

(He goes, and she resumes her letter. The stocking is lying at hand,
and she pushes it to the floor. She is done for a time with
knitting.)




ACT IV

Man's most pleasant invention is the lawn-mower. All the birds know
this, and that is why, when it is at rest, there is always at least
one of them sitting on the handle with his head cocked, wondering how
the delicious whirring sound is made. When they find out, they will
change their note. As it is, you must sometimes have thought that you
heard the mower very early in the morning, and perhaps you peeped in
neglige from your lattice window to see who was up so early. It was
really the birds trying to get the note.

On this broiling morning, however, we are at noon, and whoever looks
will see that the whirring is done by Mr. Venables. He is in a linen
suit with the coat discarded (the bird is sitting on it), and he
comes and goes across the Comtesse's lawns, pleasantly mopping his
face. We see him through a crooked bowed window generously open,
roses intruding into it as if to prevent its ever being closed at
night; there are other roses in such armfuls on the tables that one
could not easily say where the room ends and the garden begins.

In the Comtesse's pretty comic drawing-room (for she likes the comic
touch when she is in England) sits John Shand with his hostess, on
chairs at a great distance from each other. No linen garments for
John, nor flannels, nor even knickerbockers; he envies the English
way of dressing for trees and lawns, but is too Scotch to be able to
imitate it; he wears tweeds, just as he would do in his native
country where they would be in kilts. Like many another Scot, the
first time he ever saw a kilt was on a Sassenach; indeed kilts were
perhaps invented, like golf, to draw the English north. John is doing
nothing, which again is not a Scotch accomplishment, and he looks
rather miserable and dour. The Comtesse is already at her Patience
cards, and occasionally she smiles on him as if not displeased with
his long silence. At last she speaks:

COMTESSE. I feel it rather a shame to detain you here on such a
lovely day, Mr. Shand, entertaining an old woman.

JOHN. I don't pretend to think I'm entertaining you, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. But you ARE, you know.

JOHN. I would be pleased to be told how?

(She shrugs her impertinent shoulders, and presently there is another
heavy sigh from JOHN.)

COMTESSE. Again! Why do not you go out on the river?

JOHN. Yes, I can do that. (He rises.)

COMTESSE. And take Sybil with you. (He sits again.) No?

JOHN. I have been on the river with her twenty times.

COMTESSE. Then take her for a long walk through the Fairloe woods.

JOHN. We were there twice last week.

COMTESSE. There is a romantically damp little arbour at the end of
what the villagers call the Lovers' Lane.

JOHN. One can't go there every day. I see nothing to laugh at.

COMTESSE. Did I laugh? I must have been translating the situation
into French.

(Perhaps the music of the lawn-mower is not to JOHN's mood, for he
betakes himself to another room. MR. VENABLES pauses in his labours
to greet a lady who has appeared on the lawn, and who is MAGGIE. She
is as neat as if she were one of the army of typists (who are quite
the nicest kind of women), and carries a little bag. She comes in
through the window, and puts her hands over the COMTESSE's eyes.)

COMTESSE. They are a strong pair of hands, at any rate.

MAGGIE. And not very white, and biggish for my size. Now guess.

(The COMTESSE guesses, and takes both the hands in hers as if she
valued them. She pulls off MAGGIE's hat as if to prevent her flying
away.)

COMTESSE. Dear abominable one, not to let me know you were coming.

MAGGIE. It is just a surprise visit, Comtesse. I walked up from the
station. (For a moment MAGGIE seems to have borrowed SYBIL'S
impediment.) How is--everybody?

COMTESSE. He is quite well. But, my child, he seems to me to be a
most unhappy man.

(This sad news does not seem to make a most unhappy woman of the
child. The COMTESSE is puzzled, as she knows nothing of the situation
save what she has discovered for herself.)

Why should that please you, O heartless one?

MAGGIE. I won't tell you.

COMTESSE. I could take you and shake you, Maggie. Here have I put my
house at your disposal for so many days for some sly Scotch purpose,
and you will not tell me what it is.

MAGGIE. No.

COMTESSE. Very well, then, but I have what you call a nasty one for
you. (The COMTESSE lures MR. VENABLES into the room by holding up
what might be a foaming glass of lemon squash.) Alas, Charles, it is
but a flower vase. I want you to tell Mrs. Shand what you think of
her husband's speech.

(MR. VENABLES gives his hostess a reproachful look.)

VENABLES. Eh--ah--Shand will prefer to do that himself. I promised
the gardener--I must not disappoint him--excuse me--

COMTESSE. You must tell her, Charles.

MAGGIE. Please, Mr. Venables, I should like to know.

(He sits down with a sigh and obeys.)

VENABLES. Your husband has been writing the speech here, and by his
own wish he read it to me three days ago. The occasion is to be an
important one; and, well, there are a dozen young men in the party at
present, all capable of filling a certain small ministerial post. (He
looks longingly at the mower, but it sends no message to his aid.)
And as he is one of them I was anxious that he should show in this
speech of what he is capable.

MAGGIE. And hasn't he?

(Not for the first time MR VENABLES wishes that he was not in
politics.)

VENABLES. I am afraid he has.

COMTESSE. What is wrong with the speech, Charles?

VENABLES. Nothing--and he can still deliver it. It is a powerful,
well-thought-out piece of work, such as only a very able man could
produce. But it has no SPECIAL QUALITY of its own--none of the little
touches that used to make an old stager like myself want to pat Shand
on the shoulder. (The COMTESSE's mouth twitches, but MAGGIE declines
to notice it.) He pounds on manfully enough, but, if I may say so,
with a wooden leg. It is as good, I dare say, as the rest of them
could have done; but they start with such inherited advantages, Mrs.
Shand, that he had to do better.

MAGGIE. Yes, I can understand that.

VENABLES. I am sorry, Mrs. Shand, for he interested me. His career
has set me wondering whether if _I_ had begun as a railway porter I
might not still be calling out, 'By your leave.'

(MAGGIE thinks it probable but not important)

MAGGIE. Mr. Venables, now that I think of it, surely John wrote to me
that you were dissatisfied with his first speech, and that he was
writing another.

(The COMTESSE's eyes open very wide indeed.)

VENABLES. I have heard nothing of that, Mrs. Shand. (He shakes his
wise head.) And in any case, I am afraid--(He still hears the wooden
leg.)

MAGGIE. But you said yourself that his second thoughts were sometimes
such an improvement on the first.

(The COMTESSE comes to the help of the baggage.)

COMTESSE. I remember you saying that, Charles.

VENABLES. Yes, that has struck me. (Politely) Well, if he has
anything to show me--In the meantime--

(He regains the lawn, like one glad to escape attendance at JOHN'S
obsequies. The COMTESSE is brought back to speech by the sound of the
mower--nothing wooden in it.)

COMTESSE. What are you up to now, Miss Pin? You know as well as I do
that there is no such speech.

(MAGGIE's mouth tightens.)

MAGGIE. I do not.

COMTESSE. It is a duel, is it, my friend?

(The COMTESSE rings the bell and MAGGIE's guilty mind is agitated.)

MAGGIE. What are you ringing for?

COMTESSE. As the challenged one, Miss Pin, I have the choice of
weapons. I am going to send for your husband to ask him if he has
written such a speech. After which, I suppose, you will ask me to
leave you while you and he write it together.

(MAGGIE wrings her hands.)

MAGGIE. You are wrong, Comtesse; but please don't do that.

COMTESSE. You but make me more curious, and my doctor says that I
must be told everything. (The COMTESSE assumes the pose of her sex in
melodrama.) Put your cards on the table, Maggie Shand, or--(She
indicates that she always pinks her man. MAGGIE dolefully produces a
roll of paper from her bag.) What precisely is that?

(The reply is little more than a squeak.)

MAGGIE. John's speech.

COMTESSE. You have written it yourself!

(MAGGIE is naturally indignant.)

MAGGIE. It's typed.

COMTESSE. You guessed that the speech he wrote unaided would not
satisfy, and you prepared this to take its place!

MAGGIE. Not at all, Comtesse. It is the draft of his speech that he
left at home. That's all.

COMTESSE. With a few trivial alterations by yourself, I swear. Can
you deny it?

(No wonder that MAGGIE is outraged. She replaces JOHN's speech in the
bag with becoming hauteur.)

MAGGIE. Comtesse, these insinuations are unworthy of you. May I ask
where is my husband?

(The COMTESSE drops her a curtsey.)

COMTESSE. I believe your Haughtiness may find him in the Dutch
garden. Oh, I see through you. You are not to show him your speech.
But you are to get him to write another one, and somehow all your
additions will be in it. Think not, creature, that you can deceive
one so old in iniquity as the Comtesse de la Briere.

(There can be but one reply from a good wife to such a charge, and at
once the COMTESSE is left alone with her shame. Anon a footman
appears. You know how they come and go.)

FOOTMAN. You rang, my lady?

COMTESSE. Did I? Ah, yes, but why? (He is but lately from the
ploughshare and cannot help her. In this quandary her eyes alight
upon the bag. She is unfortunately too abandoned to feel her shame;
she still thinks that she has the choice of weapons. She takes the
speech from the bag and bestows it on her servitor.) Take this to Mr.
Venables, please, and say it is from Mr. Shand. (THOMAS--but in the
end we shall probably call him JOHN--departs with the dangerous
papers; and when MAGGIE returns she finds that the COMTESSE is once
more engaged in her interrupted game of Patience.) You did not find
him?

(All the bravery has dropped from MAGGIE's face.)

MAGGIE. I didn't see him, but I heard him. SHE is with him. I think
they are coming here.

(The COMTESSE is suddenly kind again.)

COMTESSE. Sybil? Shall I get rid of her?

MAGGIE. No, I want her to be here, too. Now I shall know.

(The COMTESSE twists the little thing round.)

COMTESSE. Know what?

MAGGIE. As soon as I look into his face I shall know.

(A delicious scent ushers in the fair SYBIL, who is as sweet as a
milking stool. She greets MRS. SHAND with some alarm.)

MAGGIE. How do you do, Lady Sybil? How pretty you look in that frock.
(SYBIL rustles uncomfortably.) You are a feast to the eye.

SYBIL. Please, I wish you would not.

(Shall we describe SYBIL'S frock, in which she looks like a great
strawberry that knows it ought to be plucked; or would it be easier
to watch the coming of JOHN? Let us watch JOHN.)

JOHN. You, Maggie! You never wrote that you were coming.

(No, let us watch MAGGIE. As soon as she looked into his face she was
to know something of importance.)

MAGGIE (not dissatisfied with what she sees). No, John, it's a
surprise visit. I just ran down to say good-bye.

(At this his face falls, which does not seem to pain her.)

SYBIL (foreseeing another horrible Scotch scene). To say good-bye?

COMTESSE (thrilling with expectation). To whom, Maggie?

SYBIL (deserted by the impediment, which is probably playing with
rough boys in the Lovers' Lane). Auntie, do leave us, won't you?

COMTESSE. Not I. It is becoming far too interesting.

MAGGIE. I suppose there's no reason the Comtesse shouldn't be told,
as she will know so soon at any rate?

JOHN. That's so. (SYBIL sees with discomfort that he is to be
practical also.)

MAGGIE. It's so simple. You see, Comtesse, John and Lady Sybil have
fallen in love with one another, and they are to go off as soon as
the meeting at Leeds has taken place.

(The COMTESSE's breast is too suddenly introduced to Caledonia and
its varied charms.)

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu!

MAGGIE. I think that's putting it correctly, John.

JOHN. In a sense. But I'm not to attend the meeting at Leeds. My
speech doesn't find favour. (With a strange humility) There's
something wrong with it.

COMTESSE. I never expected to hear you say that, Mr. Shand.

JOHN (wondering also). I never expected it myself. I meant to make it
the speech of my career. But somehow my hand seems to have lost its
cunning.

COMTESSE. And you don't know how?

JOHN. It's inexplicable. My brain was never clearer.

COMTESSE. You might have helped him, Sybil.

SYBIL (quite sulkily). I did.

COMTESSE. But I thought she was such an inspiration to you, Mr.
Shand.

JOHN (going bravely to SYBIL'S side). She slaved at it with me.

COMTESSE. Strange. (Wickedly becoming practical also) So now there is
nothing to detain you. Shall I send for a fly, Sybil?

SYBIL (with a cry of the heart). Auntie, do leave us.

COMTESSE. I can understand your impatience to be gone, Mr. Shand.

JOHN (heavily). I promised Maggie to wait till the 24th, and I'm a
man of my word.

MAGGIE. But I give you back your word, John. You can go now.

(JOHN looks at SYBIL, and SYBIL looks at JOHN, and the impediment
arrives in time to take a peep at both of them.)

SYBIL (groping for the practical, to which we must all come in the
end). He must make satisfactory arrangements about you first. I
insist on that.

MAGGIE (with no more imagination than a hen). Thank you, Lady Sybil,
but I have made all my arrangements.

JOHN (stung). Maggie, that was my part.

MAGGIE. You see, my brothers feel they can't be away from their
business any longer; and so, if it would be convenient to you, John,
I could travel north with them by the night train on Wednesday.

SYBIL. I--I----The way you put things---!

JOHN. This is just the 2lst.

MAGGIE. My things are all packed. I think you'll find the house in
good order, Lady Sybil. I have had the vacuum cleaners in. I'll give
you the keys of the linen and the silver plate; I have them in that
bag. The carpet on the upper landing is a good deal frayed, but---

SYBIL. Please, I don't want to hear any more.

MAGGIE. The ceiling of the dining-room would be the better of a new
lick of paint---

SYBIL (stamping her foot, small fours). Can't you stop her?

JOHN (soothingly). She's meaning well. Maggie, I know it's natural to
you to value those things, because your outlook on life is bounded by
them; but all this jars on me.

MAGGIE. Does it?

JOHN. Why should you be so ready to go?

MAGGIE. I promised not to stand in your way.

JOHN (stoutly). You needn't be in such a hurry. There are three days
to run yet. (The French are so different from us that we shall
probably never be able to understand why the COMTESSE laughed aloud
here.) It's just a joke to the Comtesse.

COMTESSE. It seems to be no joke to you, Mr. Shand. Sybil, my pet,
are you to let him off?

SYBIL (flashing). Let him off? If he wishes it. Do you?

JOHN (manfully). I want it to go on. (Something seems to have caught
in his throat: perhaps it is the impediment trying a temporary home.)
It's the one wish of my heart. If you come with me, Sybil, I'll do
all in a man's power to make you never regret it.

(Triumph of the Vere de Veres.)

MAGGIE (bringing them back to earth with a dump). And I can make my
arrangements for Wednesday?

SYBIL (seeking the COMTESSE's protection). No, you can't. Auntie, I
am not going on with this. I'm very sorry for you, John, but I see
now--I couldn't face it---

(She can't face anything at this moment except the sofa pillows.)

COMTESSE (noticing JOHN'S big sigh of relief). So THAT is all right,
Mr. Shand!

MAGGIE. Don't you love her any more, John? Be practical.

SYBIL (to the pillows). At any rate I have tired of him. Oh, best to
tell the horrid truth. I am ashamed of myself. I have been crying my
eyes out over it--I thought I was such a different kind of woman. But
I am weary of him. I think him--oh, so dull.

JOHN (his face lighting up). Are you sure that is how you have come
to think of me?

SYBIL. I'm sorry; (with all her soul) but yes--yes--yes.

JOHN. By God, it's more than I deserve.

COMTESSE. Congratulations to you both.

(SYBIL runs away; and in the fulness of time she married successfully
in cloth of silver, which was afterwards turned into a bed-spread.)

MAGGIE. You haven't read my letter yet, John, have you?

JOHN. No.

COMTESSE (imploringly). May I know to what darling letter you refer?

MAGGIE. It's a letter I wrote to him before he left London. I gave it
to him closed, not to be opened until his time here was ended.

JOHN (as his hand strays to his pocket). Am I to read it now?

MAGGIE. Not before her. Please go away, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. Every word you say makes me more determined to remain.

MAGGIE. It will hurt you, John. (Distressed) Don't read it; tear it
up.

JOHN. You make me very curious, Maggie. And yet I don't see what can
be in it.

COMTESSE. But you feel a little nervous? Give ME the dagger.

MAGGIE (quickly). No. (But the COMTESSE has already got it.)

COMTESSE. May I? (She must have thought they said Yes, for she opens
the letter. She shares its contents with them.) 'Dearest John, It is
at my request that the Comtesse is having Lady Sybil at the cottage
at the same time as yourself.'

JOHN. What?

COMTESSE. Yes, she begged me to invite you together.

JOHN. But why?

MAGGIE. I promised you not to behave as other wives would do.

JOHN. It's not understandable.

COMTESSE. 'You may ask why I do this, John, and my reason is, I think
that after a few weeks of Lady Sybil, every day, and all day, you
will become sick to death of her. I am also giving her the chance to
help you and inspire you with your work, so that you may both learn
what her help and her inspiration amount to. Of course, if your love
is the great strong passion you think it, then those weeks will make
you love her more than ever and I can only say good-bye. But if, as I
suspect, you don't even now know what true love is, then by the next
time we meet, dear John, you will have had enough of her.--Your
affectionate wife, Maggie.' Oh, why was not Sybil present at the
reading of the will! And now, if you two will kindly excuse me, I
think I must go and get that poor sufferer the eau de Cologne.

JOHN. It's almost enough to make a man lose faith in himself.

COMTESSE. Oh, don't say that, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE (defending him). You mustn't hurt him. If you haven't loved
deep and true, that's just because you have never met a woman yet,
John, capable of inspiring it.

COMTESSE (putting her hand on MAGGIE's shoulder). Have you not, Mr.
Shand?

JOHN. I see what you mean. But Maggie wouldn't think better of me for
any false pretences. She knows my feelings for her now are neither
more nor less than what they have always been.

MAGGIE (who sees that he is looking at her as solemnly as a volume of
sermons printed by request). I think no one could be fond of me that
can't laugh a little at me.

JOHN. How could that help?

COMTESSE (exasperated). Mr. Shand, I give you up.

MAGGIE. I admire his honesty.

COMTESSE. Oh, I give you up also. Arcades ambo. Scotchies both.

JOHN (when she has gone). But this letter, it's not like you. By
Gosh, Maggie, you're no fool.

(She beams at this, as any wife would.)

But how could I have made such a mistake? It's not like a strong man.
(Evidently he has an inspiration.)

MAGGIE. What is it?

JOHN (the inspiration). AM I a strong man?

MAGGIE. You? Of course you are. And self-made. Has anybody ever
helped you in the smallest way?

JOHN (thinking it out again). No, nobody.

MAGGIE. Not even Lady Sybil?

JOHN. I'm beginning to doubt it. It's very curious, though, Maggie,
that this speech should be disappointing.

MAGGIE. It's just that Mr. Venables hasn't the brains to see how good
it is.

JOHN. That must be it. (But he is too good a man to rest satisfied
with this.) No, Maggie, it's not. Somehow I seem to have lost my neat
way of saying things.

MAGGIE (almost cooing). It will come back to you.

JOHN (forlorn). If you knew how I've tried.

MAGGIE (cautiously). Maybe if you were to try again; and I'll just
come and sit beside you, and knit. I think the click of the needles
sometimes put you in the mood.

JOHN. Hardly that; and yet many a Shandism have I knocked off while
you were sitting beside me knitting. I suppose it was the quietness.

MAGGIE. Very likely.

JOHN (with another inspiration). Maggie!

MAGGIE (again). What is it, John?

JOHN. What if it was you that put those queer ideas into my head!

MAGGIE. Me?

JOHN. Without your knowing it, I mean.

MAGGIE. But how?

JOHN. We used to talk bits over; and it may be that you dropped the
seed, so to speak.

MAGGIE. John, could it be this, that I sometimes had the idea in a
rough womanish sort of way and then you polished it up till it came
out a Shandism?

JOHN (slowly slapping his knee). I believe you've hit it, Maggie: to
think that you may have been helping me all the time--and neither of
us knew it!

(He has so nearly reached a smile that no one can say what might have
happened within the next moment if the COMTESSE had not reappeared.)

COMTESSE. Mr. Venables wishes to see you, Mr. Shand.

JOHN (lost, stolen, or strayed a smile in the making). Hum!

COMTESSE. He is coming now.

JOHN (grumpy). Indeed!

COMTESSE (sweetly). It is about your speech.

JOHN. He has said all he need say on that subject, and more.

COMTESSE (quaking a little). I think it is about the second speech.

JOHN. What second speech?

(MAGGIE runs to her bag and opens it.)

MAGGIE (horrified). Comtesse, you have given it to him!

COMTESSE (impudently). Wasn't I meant to?

JOHN. What is it? What second speech?

MAGGIE. Cruel, cruel. (Willing to go on her knees) You had left the
first draft of your speech at home, John, and I brought it here with--
with a few little things I've added myself.

JOHN (a seven-footer). What's that?

MAGGIE (four foot ten at most). Just trifles--things I was to suggest
to you--while I was knitting--and then, if you liked any of them you
could have polished them--and turned them into something good. John,
John--and now she has shown it to Mr. Venables.

JOHN (thundering). As my work, Comtesse?

(But the COMTESSE is not of the women who are afraid of thunder.)

MAGGIE. It is your work--nine-tenths of it.

JOHN (in the black cap). You presumed, Maggie Shand! Very well, then,
here he comes, and now we'll see to what extent you've helped me.

VENABLES. My dear fellow. My dear Shand, I congratulate you. Give me
your hand.

JOHN. The speech?

VENABLES. You have improved it out of knowledge. It is the same
speech, but those new touches make all the difference. (JOHN sits
down heavily.) Mrs. Shand, be proud of him.

MAGGIE. I am. I am, John.

COMTESSE. You always said that his second thoughts were best,
Charles.

VENABLES (pleased to be reminded of it). Didn't I, didn't I? Those
delicious little touches! How good that is, Shand, about the flowing
tide.

COMTESSE. The flowing tide?

VENABLES. In the first speech it was something like this--'Gentlemen,
the Opposition are calling to you to vote for them and the flowing
tide, but I solemnly warn you to beware lest the flowing tide does
not engulf you.' The second way is much better.

COMTESSE. What is the second way, Mr. Shand?

(JOHN does not tell her.)

VENABLES. This is how he puts it now. (JOHN cannot help raising his
head to listen.) 'Gentlemen, the Opposition are calling to you to
vote for them and the flowing tide, but I ask you cheerfully to vote
for us and DAM the flowing tide.'

(VENABLES and his old friend the COMTESSE laugh heartily, but for
different reasons.)

COMTESSE. It IS better, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE. _I_ don't think so.

VENABLES. Yes, yes, it's so virile. Excuse me, Comtesse, I'm off to
read the whole thing again. (For the first time he notices that JOHN
is strangely quiet.) I think this has rather bowled you over, Shand.

(JOHN's head sinks lower.)

Well, well, good news doesn't kill.

MAGGIE (counsel for the defence). Surely the important thing about
the speech is its strength and knowledge and eloquence, the things
that were in the first speech as well as in the second.

VENABLES. That of course is largely true. The wit would not be enough
without them, just as they were not enough without the wit. It is the
combination that is irresistible. (JOHN's head rises a little.)
Shand, you are our man, remember that, it is emphatically the best
thing you have ever done. How this will go down at Leeds!

(He returns gaily to his hammock; but lower sinks JOHN'S head, and
even the COMTESSE has the grace to take herself off. MAGGIE's arms
flutter near her husband, not daring to alight.)

MAGGIE. You heard what he said, John. It's the combination. Is it so
terrible to you to find that my love for you had made me able to help
you in the little things?

JOHN. The little things! It seems strange to me to hear you call me
by my name, Maggie. It's as if I looked on you for the first time.

MAGGIE. Look at me, John, for the first time. What do you see?

JOHN. I see a woman who has brought her husband low.

MAGGIE. Only that?

JOHN. I see the tragedy of a man who has found himself out. Eh, I
can't live with you again, Maggie.

(He shivers.)

MAGGIE. Why did you shiver, John?

JOHN. It was at myself for saying that I couldn't live with you
again, when I should have been wondering how for so long you have
lived with me. And I suppose you have forgiven me all the time. (She
nods.) And forgive me still? (She nods again.) Dear God!

MAGGIE. John, am I to go? or are you to keep me on? (She is now a
little bundle near his feet.) I'm willing to stay because I'm useful
to you, if it can't be for a better reason. (His hand feels for her,
and the bundle wriggles nearer.) It's nothing unusual I've done,
John. Every man who is high up loves to think that he has done it all
himself; and the wife smiles, and lets it go at that. It's our only
joke. Every woman knows that. (He stares at her in hopeless
perplexity.) Oh, John, if only you could laugh at me.

JOHN. I can't laugh, Maggie.

(But as he continues to stare at her a strange disorder appears in
his face. MAGGIE feels that it is to be now or never.)

MAGGIE. Laugh, John, laugh. Watch me; see how easy it is.

(A terrible struggle is taking place within him. He creaks. Something
that may be mirth forces a passage, at first painfully, no more joy
in it than in the discoloured water from a spring that has long been
dry. Soon, however, he laughs loud and long. The spring water is
becoming clear. MAGGIE claps her hands. He is saved.)










This eBook was produced by David Moynihan, Charles Franks and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team.



WHAT EVERY WOMAN KNOWS

JAMES M. BARRIE



ACT I

(James Wylie is about to make a move on the dambrod, and in the
little Scotch room there is an awful silence befitting the occasion.
James with his hand poised--for if he touches a piece he has to play
it, Alick will see to that--raises his red head suddenly to read
Alick's face. His father, who is Alick, is pretending to be in a
panic lest James should make this move. James grins heartlessly, and
his fingers are about to close on the 'man' when some instinct of
self-preservation makes him peep once more. This time Alick is
caught: the unholy ecstasy on his face tells as plain as porridge
that he has been luring James to destruction. James glares; and, too
late, his opponent is a simple old father again. James mops his head,
sprawls in the manner most conducive to thought in the Wylie family,
and, protruding his underlip, settles down to a reconsideration of
the board. Alick blows out his cheeks, and a drop of water settles on
the point of his nose.

You will find them thus any Saturday night (after family worship,
which sends the servant to bed); and sometimes the pauses are so long
that in the end they forget whose move it is.

It is not the room you would be shown into if you were calling
socially on Miss Wylie. The drawing-room for you, and Miss Wylie in a
coloured merino to receive you; very likely she would exclaim, "This
is a pleasant surprise!" though she has seen you coming up the avenue
and has just had time to whip the dustcloths off the chairs, and to
warn Alick, David and James, that they had better not dare come in to
see you before they have put on a dickey. Nor is this the room in
which you would dine in solemn grandeur if invited to drop in and
take pot-luck, which is how the Wylies invite, it being a family
weakness to pretend that they sit down in the dining-room daily. It
is the real living-room of the house, where Alick, who will never get
used to fashionable ways, can take off his collar and sit happily in
his stocking soles, and James at times would do so also; but catch
Maggie letting him.

There is one very fine chair, but, heavens, not for sitting on; just
to give the room a social standing in an emergency. It sneers at the
other chairs with an air of insolent superiority, like a haughty
bride who has married into the house for money. Otherwise the
furniture is homely; most of it has come from that smaller house
where the Wylies began. There is the large and shiny chair which can
be turned into a bed if you look the other way for a moment. James
cannot sit on this chair without gradually sliding down it till he is
lying luxuriously on the small of his back, his legs indicating, like
the hands of a clock, that it is ten past twelve; a position in which
Maggie shudders to see him receiving company.

The other chairs are horse-hair, than which nothing is more
comfortable if there be a good slit down the seat. The seats are
heavily dented, because all the Wylie family sit down with a dump.
The draught-board is on the edge of a large centre table, which also
displays four books placed at equal distances from each other, one of
them a Bible, and another the family album. If these were the only
books they would not justify Maggie in calling this chamber the
library, her dogged name for it; while David and James call it the
west-room and Alick calls it 'the room,' which is to him the natural
name for any apartment without a bed in it. There is a bookcase of
pitch pine, which contains six hundred books, with glass doors to
prevent your getting at them.

No one does try to get at the books, for the Wylies are not a reading
family. They like you to gasp when you see so much literature
gathered together in one prison-house, but they gasp themselves at
the thought that there are persons, chiefly clergymen, who, having
finished one book, coolly begin another. Nevertheless it was not all
vainglory that made David buy this library: it was rather a mighty
respect for education, as something that he has missed. This same
feeling makes him take in the Contemporary Review and stand up to it
like a man. Alick, who also has a respect for education, tries to
read the Contemporary, but becomes dispirited, and may be heard
muttering over its pages, 'No, no use, no use, no,' and sometimes
even 'Oh hell.' James has no respect for education; and Maggie is at
present of an open mind.

They are Wylie and Sons of the local granite quarry, in which Alick
was throughout his working days a mason. It is David who has raised
them to this position; he climbed up himself step by step (and hewed
the steps), and drew the others up after him. 'Wylie Brothers,' Alick
would have had the firm called, but David said No, and James said No,
and Maggie said No; first honour must be to their father; and Alick
now likes it on the whole, though he often sighs at having to shave
every day; and on some snell mornings he still creeps from his couch
at four and even at two (thinking that his mallet and chisel are
calling him), and begins to pull on his trousers, until the grandeur
of them reminds him that he can go to bed again. Sometimes he cries a
little, because there is no more work for him to do for ever and
ever; and then Maggie gives him a spade (without telling David) or
David gives him the logs to saw (without telling Maggie).

We have given James a longer time to make his move than our kind
friends in front will give him, but in the meantime something has
been happening. David has come in, wearing a black coat and his
Sabbath boots, for he has been to a public meeting. David is nigh
forty years of age, whiskered like his father and brother (Alick's
whiskers being worn as a sort of cravat round the neck), and he has
the too brisk manner of one who must arrive anywhere a little before
any one else. The painter who did the three of them for fifteen
pounds (you may observe the canvases on the walls) has caught this
characteristic, perhaps accidentally, for David is almost stepping
out of his frame, as if to hurry off somewhere; while Alick and James
look as if they were pinned to the wall for life. All the six of
them, men and pictures, however, have a family resemblance, like
granite blocks from their own quarry. They are as Scotch as peat for
instance, and they might exchange eyes without any neighbour noticing
the difference, inquisitive little blue eyes that seem to be always
totting up the price of things.

The dambrod players pay no attention to David, nor does he regard
them. Dumping down on the sofa he removes his 'lastic sides, as his
Sabbath boots are called, by pushing one foot against the other, gets
into a pair of hand-sewn slippers, deposits the boots as according to
rule in the ottoman, and crosses to the fire. There must be something
on David's mind to-night, for he pays no attention to the game,
neither gives advice (than which nothing is more maddening) nor
exchanges a wink with Alick over the parlous condition of James's
crown. You can hear the wag-at-the-wall clock in the lobby ticking.
Then David lets himself go; it runs out of him like a hymn:)

DAVID. Oh, let the solid ground Not fail beneath my feet, Before my
life has found What some have found so sweet.

[This is not a soliloquy, but is offered as a definite statement. The
players emerge from their game with difficulty.]

ALICK [with JAMES's crown in his hand]. What's that you're saying,
David?

DAVID [like a public speaker explaining the situation in a few well-chosen
words]. The thing I'm speaking about is Love.

JAMES [keeping control of himself]. Do you stand there and say you're
in love, David Wylie?

DAVID. Me; what would I do with the thing?

JAMES [who is by no means without pluck]. I see no necessity for
calling it a thing.

[They are two bachelors who all their lives have been afraid of
nothing but Woman. DAVID in his sportive days--which continue--has
done roguish things with his arm when conducting a lady home under an
umbrella from a soiree, and has both chuckled and been scared on
thinking of it afterwards. JAMES, a commoner fellow altogether, has
discussed the sex over a glass, but is too canny to be in the company
of less than two young women at a time.]

DAVID [derisively]. Oho, has she got you, James?

JAMES [feeling the sting of it]. Nobody has got me.

DAVID. They'll catch you yet, lad.

JAMES. They'll never catch me. You've been nearer catched yourself.

ALICK. Yes, Kitty Menzies, David.

DAVID [feeling himself under the umbrella]. It was a kind of a shave
that.

ALICK [who knows all that is to be known about women and can speak of
them without a tremor]. It's a curious thing, but a man cannot help
winking when he hears that one of his friends has been catched.

DAVID. That's so.

JAMES [clinging to his manhood]. And fear of that wink is what has
kept the two of us single men. And yet what's the glory of being
single?

DAVID. There's no particular glory in it, but it's safe.

JAMES [putting away his aspirations]. Yes, it's lonely, but it's
safe. But who did you mean the poetry for, then?

DAVID. For Maggie, of course.

[You don't know DAVID and JAMES till you know how they love their
sister MAGGIE.]

ALICK. I thought that.

DAVID [coming to the second point of his statement about Love]. I saw
her reading poetry and saying those words over to herself.

JAMES. She has such a poetical mind.

DAVID. Love. There's no doubt as that's what Maggie has set her heart
on. And not merely love, but one of those grand noble loves; for
though Maggie is undersized she has a passion for romance.

JAMES [wandering miserably about the room]. It's terrible not to be
able to give Maggie what her heart is set on.

[The others never pay much attention to JAMES, though he is quite a
smart figure in less important houses.]

ALICK [violently]. Those idiots of men.

DAVID. Father, did you tell her who had got the minister of
Galashiels?

ALICK [wagging his head sadly]. I had to tell her. And then I--I--
bought her a sealskin muff, and I just slipped it into her hands and
came away.

JAMES [illustrating the sense of justice in the Wylie family]. Of
course, to be fair to the man, he never pretended he wanted her.

DAVID. None of them wants her; that's what depresses her. I was
thinking, father, I would buy her that gold watch and chain in
Snibby's window. She hankers after it.

JAMES [slapping his pocket]. You're too late, David; I've got them
for her.

DAVID. It's ill done of the minister. Many a pound of steak has that
man had in this house.

ALICK. You mind the slippers she worked for him?

JAMES. I mind them fine; she began them for William Cathro. She's
getting on in years, too, though she looks so young.

ALICK. I never can make up my mind, David, whether her curls make her
look younger or older.

DAVID [determinedly]. Younger. Whist! I hear her winding the clock.
Mind, not a word about the minister to her, James. Don't even mention
religion this day.

JAMES. Would it be like me to do such a thing?

DAVID. It would be very like you. And there's that other matter: say
not a syllable about our having a reason for sitting up late to-
night. When she says it's bed-time, just all pretend we're not
sleepy.

ALICK. Exactly, and when--

[Here MAGGIE enters, and all three are suddenly engrossed in the
dambrod. We could describe MAGGIE at great length. But what is the
use? What you really want to know is whether she was good-looking.
No, she was not. Enter MAGGIE, who is not good-looking. When this is
said, all is said. Enter MAGGIE, as it were, with her throat cut from
ear to ear. She has a soft Scotch voice and a more resolute manner
than is perhaps fitting to her plainness; and she stops short at
sight of JAMES sprawling unconsciously in the company chair.]

MAGGIE. James, I wouldn't sit on the fine chair.

JAMES. I forgot again.

[But he wishes she had spoken more sharply. Even profanation of the
fine chair has not roused her. She takes up her knitting, and they
all suspect that she knows what they have been talking about.]

MAGGIE. You're late, David, it's nearly bed-time.

DAVID [finding the subject a safe one]. I was kept late at the public
meeting.

ALICK [glad to get so far away from Galashiels]. Was it a good
meeting?

DAVID. Fairish. [with some heat] That young John Shand WOULD make a
speech.

MAGGIE. John Shand? Is that the student Shand?

DAVID. The same. It's true he's a student at Glasgow University in
the winter months, but in summer he's just the railway porter here;
and I think it's very presumptuous of a young lad like that to make a
speech when he hasn't a penny to bless himself with.

ALICK. The Shands were always an impudent family, and jealous. I
suppose that's the reason they haven't been on speaking terms with us
this six years. Was it a good speech?

DAVID [illustrating the family's generosity]. It was very fine; but
he needn't have made fun of ME.

MAGGIE [losing a stitch]. He dared?

DAVID [depressed]. You see I can not get started on a speech without
saying things like 'In rising FOR to make a few remarks.'

JAMES. What's wrong with it?

DAVID. He mimicked me, and said, 'Will our worthy chairman come for
to go for to answer my questions?' and so on; and they roared.

JAMES [slapping his money pocket]. The sacket.

DAVID. I did feel bitterly, father, the want of education. [Without
knowing it, he has a beautiful way of pronouncing this noble word.]

MAGGIE [holding out a kind hand to him]. David.

ALICK. I've missed it sore, David. Even now I feel the want of it in
the very marrow of me. I'm ashamed to think I never gave you your
chance. But when you were young I was so desperate poor, how could I
do it, Maggie?

MAGGIE. It wasn't possible, father.

ALICK [gazing at the book-shelves]. To be able to understand these
books! To up with them one at a time and scrape them as clean as
though they were a bowl of brose. Lads, it's not to riches, it's to
scholarship that I make my humble bow.

JAMES [who is good at bathos]. There's ten yards of them. And they
were selected by the minister of Galashiels. He said--

DAVID [quickly]. James.

JAMES. I mean--I mean--

MAGGIE [calmly]. I suppose you mean what you say, James. I hear,
David, that the minister of Galashiels is to be married on that Miss
Turnbull.

DAVID [on guard]. So they were saying.

ALICK. All I can say is she has made a poor bargain.

MAGGIE [the damned]. I wonder at you, father. He's a very nice
gentleman. I'm sure I hope he has chosen wisely.

JAMES. Not him.

MAGGIE [getting near her tragedy]. How can you say that when you
don't know her? I expect she is full of charm.

ALICK. Charm? It's the very word he used.

DAVID. Havering idiot.

ALICK. What IS charm, exactly, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Oh, it's--it's a sort of bloom on a woman. If you have it,
you don't need to have anything else; and if you don't have it, it
doesn't much matter what else you have. Some women, the few, have
charm for all; and most have charm for one. But some have charm for
none.

[Somehow she has stopped knitting. Her men-folk are very depressed.
JAMES brings his fist down on the table with a crash.]

JAMES [shouting]. I have a sister that has charm.

MAGGIE. No, James, you haven't.

JAMES [rushing at her with the watch and chain]. Ha'e, Maggie.

[She lets them lie in her lap.]

DAVID. Maggie, would you like a silk?

MAGGIE. What could I do with a silk? [With a gust of passion] You
might as well dress up a little brown hen.

[They wriggle miserably.]

JAMES [stamping]. Bring him here to me.

MAGGIE. Bring whom, James?

JAMES. David, I would be obliged if you wouldn't kick me beneath the
table.

MAGGIE [rising]. Let's be practical; let's go to our beds.

[This reminds them that they have a job on hand in which she is not
to share.]

DAVID [slily]. I don't feel very sleepy yet.

ALICK. Nor me either.

JAMES. You've just taken the very words out of my mouth.

DAVID [with unusual politeness]. Good-night to you Maggie.

MAGGIE [fixing the three of them]. ALL of you unsleepy, when, as is
well known, ten o'clock is your regular bed-time?

JAMES. Yes, it's common knowledge that we go to our beds at ten.
[Chuckling] That's what we're counting on.

MAGGIE. Counting on?

DAVID. You stupid whelp.

JAMES. What have I done?

MAGGIE [folding her arms]. There's something up. You've got to tell
me, David.

DAVID [who knows when he is beaten]. Go out and watch, James.

MAGGIE. Watch?

[JAMES takes himself off, armed, as MAGGIE notices, with a stick.]

DAVID [in his alert business way]. Maggie, there are burglars about.

MAGGIE. Burglars? [She sits rigid, but she is not the kind to
scream.]

DAVID. We hadn't meant for to tell you till we nabbed them; but
they've been in this room twice of late. We sat up last night waiting
for them, and we're to sit up again to-night.

MAGGIE. The silver plate.

DAVID. It's all safe as yet. That makes us think that they were
either frightened away these other times, or that they are coming
back for to make a clean sweep.

MAGGIE. How did you get to know about this?

DAVID. It was on Tuesday that the polissman called at the quarry with
a very queer story. He had seen a man climbing out at this window at
ten past two.

MAGGIE. Did he chase him?

DAVID. It was so dark he lost sight of him at once.

ALICK. Tell her about the window.

DAVID. We've found out that the catch of the window has been pushed
back by slipping the blade of a knife between the woodwork.

MAGGIE. David.

ALICK. The polissman said he was carrying a little carpet bag.

MAGGIE. The silver plate IS gone.

DAVID. No, no. We were thinking that very likely he has bunches of
keys in the bag.

MAGGIE. Or weapons.

DAVID. As for that, we have some pretty stout weapons ourselves in
the umbrella stand. So, if you'll go to your bed, Maggie--

MAGGIE. Me? and my brothers in danger.

ALICK. There's just one of them.

MAGGIE. The polissman just saw one.

DAVID [licking his palms]. I would be very pleased if there were
three of them.

MAGGIE. I watch with you. I would be very pleased if there were four
of them.

DAVID. And they say she has no charm!

[JAMES returns on tiptoe as if the burglars were beneath the table.
He signs to every one to breathe no more, and then whispers his
news.]

JAMES. He's there. I had no sooner gone out than I saw him sliding
down the garden wall, close to the rhubarbs.

ALICK. What's he like?

JAMES. He's an ugly customer. That's all I could see. There was a
little carpet bag in his hand.

DAVID. That's him.

JAMES. He slunk into the rhodydendrons, and he's there now, watching
the window.

DAVID. We have him. Out with the light.

[The room is beautified by a chandelier fitted for three gas jets,
but with the advance of progress one of these has been removed and
the incandescent light put in its place. This alone is lit. ALICK
climbs a chair, pulls a little chain, and the room is now but vaguely
lit by the fire. It plays fitfully on four sparkling faces.]

MAGGIE. Do you think he saw you, James?

JAMES. I couldn't say, but in any case I was too clever for him. I
looked up at the stars, and yawned loud at them as if I was
tremendous sleepy.

[There is a long pause during which they are lurking in the shadows.
At last they hear some movement, and they steal like ghosts from the
room. We see DAVID turning out the lobby light; then the door closes
and an empty room awaits the intruder with a shudder of expectancy.
The window opens and shuts as softly as if this were a mother peering
in to see whether her baby is asleep. Then the head of a man shows
between the curtains. The remainder of him follows. He is carrying a
little carpet bag. He stands irresolute; what puzzles him evidently
is that the Wylies should have retired to rest without lifting that
piece of coal off the fire. He opens the door and peeps into the
lobby, listening to the wag-at-the-wall clock. All seems serene, and
he turns on the light. We see him clearly now. He is JOHN SHAND, age
twenty-one, boots muddy, as an indignant carpet can testify. He wears
a shabby topcoat and a cockerty bonnet; otherwise he is in the well-
worn corduroys of a railway porter. His movements, at first stealthy,
become almost homely as he feels that he is secure. He opens the bag
and takes out a bunch of keys, a small paper parcel, and a black
implement that may be a burglar's jemmy. This cool customer examines
the fire and piles on more coals. With the keys he opens the door of
the bookcase, selects two large volumes, and brings them to the
table. He takes off his topcoat and opens his parcel, which we now
see contains sheets of foolscap paper. His next action shows that the
'jemmy' is really a ruler. He knows where the pen and ink are kept.
He pulls the fine chair nearer to the table, sits on it, and proceeds
to write, occasionally dotting the carpet with ink as he stabs the
air with his pen. He is so occupied that he does not see the door
opening, and the Wylie family staring at him. They are armed with
sticks.]

ALICK [at last]. When you're ready, John Shand.

[JOHN hints back, and then he has the grace to rise, dogged and
expressionless.]

JAMES [like a railway porter]. Ticket, please.

DAVID. You can't think of anything clever for to go for to say now,
John.

MAGGIE. I hope you find that chair comfortable, young man.

JOHN. I have no complaint to make against the chair.

ALICK [who is really distressed]. A native of the town. The disgrace
to your family! I feel pity for the Shands this night.

JOHN [glowering]. I'll thank you, Mr. Wylie, not to pity my family.

JAMES. Canny, canny.

MAGGIE [that sense of justice again]. I think you should let the
young man explain. It mayn't be so bad as we thought.

DAVID. Explain away, my billie.

JOHN. Only the uneducated would need an explanation. I'm a student,
[with a little passion] and I'm desperate for want of books. You have
all I want here; no use to you but for display; well, I came here to
study. I come twice weekly. [Amazement of his hosts.]

DAVID [who is the first to recover]. By the window.

JOHN. Do you think a Shand would so far lower himself as to enter
your door? Well, is it a case for the police?

JAMES. It is.

MAGGIE [not so much out of the goodness of her heart as to patronise
the Shands]. It seems to me it's a case for us all to go to our beds
and leave the young man to study; but not on that chair. [And she
wheels the chair away from him.]

JOHN. Thank you, Miss Maggie, but I couldn't be beholden to you.

JAMES. My opinion is that he's nobody, so out with him.

JOHN. Yes, out with me. And you'll be cheered to hear I'm likely to
be a nobody for a long time to come.

DAVID [who had been beginning to respect him]. Are you a poor
scholar?

JOHN. On the contrary, I'm a brilliant scholar.

DAVID. It's siller, then?

JOHN [glorified by experiences he has shared with many a gallant
soul]. My first year at college I lived on a barrel of potatoes, and
we had just a sofa-bed between two of us; when the one lay down the
other had to get up. Do you think it was hardship? It was sublime.
But this year I can't afford it. I'll have to stay on here,
collecting the tickets of the illiterate, such as you, when I might
be with Romulus and Remus among the stars.

JAMES [summing up]. Havers.

DAVID [in whose head some design is vaguely taking shape]. Whist,
James. I must say, young lad, I like your spirit. Now tell me, what's
your professors' opinion of your future.

JOHN. They think me a young man of extraordinary promise.

DAVID. You have a name here for high moral character.

JOHN. And justly.

DAVID. Are you serious-minded?

JOHN. I never laughed in my life.

DAVID. Who do you sit under in Glasgow?

JOHN. Mr. Flemister of the Sauchiehall High.

DAVID. Are you a Sabbath-school teacher?

JOHN. I am.

DAVID. One more question. Are you promised?

JOHN. To a lady?

DAVID. Yes.

JOHN. I've never given one of them a single word of encouragement.
I'm too much occupied thinking about my career.

DAVID. So. [He reflects, and finally indicates by a jerk of the head
that he wishes to talk with his father behind the door.]

JAMES [longingly]. Do you want me too?

[But they go out without even answering him.]

MAGGIE. I don't know what maggot they have in their heads, but sit
down, young man, till they come back.

JOHN. My name's Mr. Shand, and till I'm called that I decline to sit
down again in this house.

MAGGIE. Then I'm thinking, young sir, you'll have a weary wait.

[While he waits you can see how pinched his face is. He is little
more than a boy, and he seldom has enough to eat. DAVID and ALICK
return presently, looking as sly as if they had been discussing some
move on the dambrod, as indeed they have.]

DAVID [suddenly become genial]. Sit down, Mr. Shand, and pull in your
chair. You'll have a thimbleful of something to keep the cold out?
[Briskly] Glasses, Maggie.

[She wonders, but gets glasses and decanter from the sideboard, which
JAMES calls the chiffy. DAVID and ALICK, in the most friendly manner,
also draw up to the table.]

You're not a totaller, I hope?

JOHN [guardedly]. I'm practically a totaller.

DAVID. So are we. How do you take it? Is there any hot water, Maggie?

JOHN. If I take it at all, and I haven't made up my mind yet, I'll
take it cold.

DAVID. You'll take it hot, James?

JAMES [also sitting at the table but completely befogged]. No, I--

DAVID [decisively] I think you'll take it hot, James.

JAMES [sulking]. I'll take it hot.

DAVID. The kettle, Maggie.

[JAMES has evidently to take it hot so that they can get at the
business now on hand, while MAGGIE goes kitchenward for the kettle.]

ALICK. Now, David, quick, before she comes back.

DAVID. Mr. Shand, we have an offer to make you.

JOHN [warningly]. No patronage.

ALICK. It's strictly a business affair.

DAVID. Leave it to me, father. It's this--[But to his annoyance the
suspicious MAGGIE has already returned with the kettle.] Maggie,
don't you see that you're not wanted?

MAGGIE [sitting down by the fire and resuming her knitting]. I do,
David.

DAVID. I have a proposition to put before Mr. Shand, and women are
out of place in business transactions.

[The needles continue to click.]

ALICK [sighing]. We'll have to let her bide, David.

DAVID [sternly]. Woman. [But even this does not budge her.] Very well
then, sit there, but don't interfere, mind. Mr. Shand, we're willing,
the three of us, to lay out L300 on your education if--

JOHN. Take care.

DAVID [slowly, which is not his wont]. On condition that five years
from now, Maggie Wylie, if still unmarried, can claim to marry you,
should such be her wish; the thing to be perfectly open on her side,
but you to be strictly tied down.

JAMES [enlightened]. So, so.

DAVID [resuming his smart manner]. Now, what have you to say? Decide.

JOHN [after a pause]. I regret to say--

MAGGIE. It doesn't matter what he regrets to say, because I decide
against it. And I think it was very ill-done of you to make any such
proposal.

DAVID [without looking at her]. Quiet, Maggie.

JOHN [looking at her]. I must say, Miss Maggie, I don't see what
reasons YOU can have for being so set against it.

MAGGIE. If you would grow a beard, Mr. Shand, the reasons wouldn't be
quite so obvious.

JOHN. I'll never grow a beard.

MAGGIE. Then you're done for at the start.

ALICK. Come, come.

MAGGIE. Seeing I have refused the young man--

JOHN. Refused!

DAVID. That's no reason why we shouldn't have his friendly opinion.
Your objections, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. Simply, it's a one-sided bargain. I admit I'm no catch at
present; but what could a man of my abilities not soar to with three
hundred pounds? Something far above what she could aspire to.

MAGGIE. Oh, indeed!

DAVID. The position is that without the three hundred you can't soar.

JOHN. You have me there.

MAGGIE. Yes, but--

ALICK. You see YOU'RE safeguarded, Maggie; you don't need to take him
unless you like, but he has to take you.

JOHN. That's an unfair arrangement also.

MAGGIE. I wouldn't dream of it without that condition.

JOHN. Then you ARE thinking of it?

MAGGIE. Poof!

DAVID. It's a good arrangement for you, Mr. Shand. The chances are
you'll never have to go on with it, for in all probability she'll
marry soon.

JAMES. She's tremendous run after.

JOHN. Even if that's true, it's just keeping me in reserve in case
she misses doing better.

DAVID [relieved]. That's the situation in a nutshell.

JOHN. Another thing. Supposing I was to get fond of her?

ALICK [wistfully]. It's very likely.

JOHN. Yes, and then suppose she was to give me the go-by?

DAVID. You have to risk that.

JOHN. Or take it the other way. Supposing as I got to know her I
COULD NOT endure her?

DAVID [suavely]. You have both to take risks.

JAMES [less suavely]. What you need, John Shand, is a clout on the
head.

JOHN. Three hundred pounds is no great sum.

DAVID. You can take it or leave it.

ALICK. No great sum for a student studying for the ministry!

JOHN. Do you think that with that amount of money I would stop short
at being a minister?

DAVID. That's how I like to hear you speak. A young Scotsman of your
ability let loose upon the world with L300, what could he not do?
It's almost appalling to think of; especially if he went among the
English.

JOHN. What do you think, Miss Maggie?

MAGGIE [who is knitting]. I have no thoughts on the subject either
way.

JOHN [after looking her over]. What's her age? She looks young, but
they say it's the curls that does it.

DAVID [rather happily]. She's one of those women who are eternally
young.

JOHN. I can't take that for an answer.

DAVID. She's twenty-five.

JOHN. I'm just twenty-one.

JAMES. I read in a book that about four years' difference in the ages
is the ideal thing. [As usual he is disregarded.]

DAVID. Well, Mr. Shand?

JOHN [where is his mother?]. I'm willing if she's willing.

DAVID. Maggie?

MAGGIE. There can be no 'if' about it. It must be an offer.

JOHN. A Shand give a Wylie such a chance to humiliate him? Never.

MAGGIE. Then all is off.

DAVID. Come, come, Mr. Shand, it's just a form.

JOHN [reluctantly]. Miss Maggie, will you?

MAGGIE [doggedly]. Is it an offer? 

JOHN [dourly]. Yes.

MAGGIE [rising]. Before I answer I want first to give you a chance of
drawing back.

DAVID. Maggie.

MAGGIE [bravely]. When they said that I have been run after they were
misleading you. I'm without charm; nobody has ever been after me.

JOHN. Oho!

ALICK. They will be yet.

JOHN [the innocent]. It shows at least that you haven't been after
them.

[His hosts exchange a self-conscious glance.]

MAGGIE. One thing more; David said I'm twenty-five, I'm twenty-six.

JOHN. Aha!

MAGGIE. Now be practical. Do you withdraw from the bargain, or do you
not?

JOHN [on reflection]. It's a bargain.

MAGGIE. Then so be it.

DAVID [hurriedly]. And that's settled. Did you say you would take it
hot, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. I think I'll take it neat.

[The others decide to take it hot, and there is some careful business
here with the toddy ladles.]

ALICK. Here's to you, and your career.

JOHN. Thank you. To you, Miss Maggie. Had we not better draw up a
legal document? Lawyer Crosbie could do it on the quiet.

DAVID. Should we do that, or should we just trust to one another's
honour?

ALICK [gallantly]. Let Maggie decide.

MAGGIE. I think we would better have a legal document.

DAVID. We'll have it drawn up to-morrow. I was thinking the best way
would be for to pay the money in five yearly instalments.

JOHN. I was thinking, better bank the whole sum in my name at once.

ALICK. I think David's plan's the best.

JOHN. I think not. Of course if it's not convenient to you--

DAVID [touched to the quick]. It's perfectly convenient. What do you
say, Maggie?

MAGGIE. I agree with John.

DAVID [with an odd feeling that MAGGIE is now on the other side].
Very well.

JOHN. Then as that's settled I think I'll be stepping. [He is putting
his papers back in the bag.]

ALICK [politely]. If you would like to sit on at your books--

JOHN. As I can come at any orra time now I think I'll be stepping.
[MAGGIE helps him into his topcoat.]

MAGGIE. Have you a muffler, John?

JOHN. I have. [He gets it from his pocket.]

MAGGIE. You had better put it twice round. [She does this for him.]

DAVID. Well, good-night to you, Mr. Shand.

ALICK. And good luck.

JOHN. Thank you. The same to you. And I'll cry in at your office in
the morning before the 6:20 is due.

DAVID. I'll have the document ready for you. [There is the awkward
pause that sometimes follows great events.] I think, Maggie, you
might see Mr. Shand to the door.

MAGGIE. Certainly. [JOHN is going by the window.] This way, John.

[She takes him off by the more usual exit.]

DAVID. He's a fine frank fellow; and you saw how cleverly he got the
better of me about banking the money. [As the heads of the
conspirators come gleefully together] I tell you, father, he has a
grand business head.

ALICK. Lads, he's canny. He's cannier than any of us.

JAMES. Except maybe Maggie. He has no idea what a remarkable woman
Maggie is.

ALICK. Best he shouldn't know. Men are nervous of remarkable women.

JAMES. She's a long time in coming back.

DAVID [not quite comfortable]. It's a good sign. H'sh. What sort of a
night is it, Maggie?

MAGGIE. It's a little blowy.

[She gets a large dustcloth which is lying folded on a shelf, and
proceeds to spread it over the fine chair. The men exchange self-conscious
glances.]

DAVID [stretching himself]. Yes--well, well, oh yes. It's getting
late. What is it with you, father?

ALICK. I'm ten forty-two.

JAMES. I'm ten-forty.

DAVID. Ten forty-two.

[They wind up their watches.]

MAGGIE. It's high time we were bedded. [She puts her hands on their
shoulders lovingly, which is the very thing they have been trying to
avoid.] You're very kind to me.

DAVID. Havers.

ALICK. Havers.

JAMES [but this does not matter]. Havers.

MAGGIE [a little dolefully]. I'm a sort of sorry for the young man,
David.

DAVID. Not at all. You'll be the making of him. [She lifts the two
volumes.] Are you taking the books to your bed, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Yes. I don't want him to know things I don't know myself.

[She departs with the books; and ALICK and DAVID, the villains, now
want to get away from each other.]

ALICK. Yes--yes. Oh yes--ay, man--it is so--umpha. You'll lift the
big coals off, David.

[He wanders away to his spring mattress. DAVID removes the coals.]

JAMES [who would like to sit down and have an argy-bargy]. It's a
most romantical affair. [But he gets no answer.] I wonder how it'll
turn out? [No answer.] She's queer, Maggie. I wonder how some clever
writers has never noticed how queer women are. It's my belief you
could write a whole book about them. [DAVID remains obdurate.] It was
very noble of her to tell him she's twenty-six. [Muttering as he too
wanders away.] But I thought she was twenty-seven.

[DAVID turns out the light.]




ACT II

[Six years have elapsed and John Shand's great hour has come. Perhaps
his great hour really lies ahead of him, perhaps he had it six years
ago; it often passes us by in the night with such a faint call that
we don't even turn in our beds. But according to the trumpets this is
John's great hour; it is the hour for which he has long been working
with his coat off; and now the coat is on again (broadcloth but ill-
fitting), for there is no more to do but await results. He is
standing for Parliament, and this is election night.

As the scene discloses itself you get, so to speak, one of John
Shand's posters in the face. Vote for Shand. Shand, Shand, Shand.
Civil and Religious Liberty, Faith, Hope, Freedom. They are all fly-
blown names for Shand. Have a placard about Shand, have a hundred
placards about him, it is snowing Shand to-night in Glasgow; take the
paste out of your eye, and you will see that we are in one of Shand's
committee rooms. It has been a hairdresser's emporium, but Shand,
Shand, Shand has swept through it like a wind, leaving nothing but
the fixtures; why shave, why have your head doused in those basins
when you can be brushed and scraped and washed up for ever by simply
voting for Shand?

There are a few hard chairs for yelling Shand from, and then rushing
away. There is an iron spiral staircase that once led to the ladies'
hairdressing apartments, but now leads to more Shand, Shand, Shand. A
glass door at the back opens on to the shop proper, screaming Civil
and Religious Liberty, Shand, as it opens, and beyond is the street
crammed with still more Shand pro and con. Men in every sort of garb
rush in and out, up and down the stair, shouting the magic word. Then
there is a lull, and down the stair comes Maggie Wylie, decidedly
overdressed in blue velvet and (let us get this over) less good-
looking than ever. She raises her hands to heaven, she spins round
like a little teetotum. To her from the street, suffering from a
determination of the word Shand to the mouth, rush Alick and David.
Alick is thinner (being older), David is stouter (being older), and
they are both in tweeds and silk hats.]

MAGGIE. David--have they--is he? quick, quick! DAVID. There's no news
yet, no news. It's terrible.

[The teetotum revolves more quickly.]

ALICK. For God's sake, Maggie, sit down. 

MAGGIE. I can't, I can't.

DAVID. Hold her down.

[They press her into a chair; JAMES darts in, stouter also. His
necktie has gone; he will never again be able to attend a funeral in
that hat.]

JAMES [wildly]. John Shand's the man for you. John Shand's the man
for you. John Shand's the man for you.

DAVID [clutching him]. Have you heard anything?

JAMES. Not a word.

ALICK. Look at her.

DAVID. Maggie [he goes on his knees beside her, pressing her to him
in affectionate anxiety]. It was mad of him to dare.

MAGGIE. It was grand of him.

ALICK [moving about distraught]. Insane ambition.

MAGGIE. Glorious ambition.

DAVID. Maggie, Maggie, my lamb, best be prepared for the worst.

MAGGIE [husky]. I am prepared.

ALICK. Six weary years has she waited for this night.

MAGGIE. Six brave years has John toiled for this night.

JAMES. And you could have had him, Maggie, at the end of five. The
document says five.

MAGGIE. Do you think I grudge not being married to him yet? Was I to
hamper him till the fight was won?

DAVID [with wrinkled brows]. But if it's lost?

[She can't answer.]

ALICK [starting]. What's that?

[The three listen at the door, the shouting dies down.]

DAVID. They're terrible still; what can make them so still?

[JAMES spirits himself away. ALICK and DAVID blanch to hear MAGGIE
speaking softly as if to JOHN.]

MAGGIE. Did you say you had lost, John? Of course you would lose the
first time, dear John. Six years. Very well, we'll begin another six
to-night. You'll win yet. [Fiercely] Never give in, John, never give
in!

[The roar of the multitude breaks out again and comes rolling
nearer.]

DAVID. I think he's coming.

[JAMES is fired into the room like a squeezed onion.]

JAMES. He's coming!

[They may go on speaking, but through the clang outside none could
hear. The populace seems to be trying to take the committee room by
assault. Out of the scrimmage a man emerges dishevelled and bursts
into the room, closing the door behind him. It is JOHN SHAND in a
five guinea suit, including the hat. There are other changes in him
also, for he has been delving his way through loamy ground all those
years. His right shoulder, which he used to raise to pound a path
through the crowd, now remains permanently in that position. His
mouth tends to close like a box. His eyes are tired, they need some
one to pull the lids over them and send him to sleep for a week. But
they are honest eyes still, and faithful, and could even light up his
face at times with a smile, if the mouth would give a little help.]

JOHN [clinging to a chair that he may not fly straight to heaven].
I'm in; I'm elected. Majority two hundred and forty-four; I'm John
Shand, M.P.

[The crowd have the news by this time and their roar breaks the door
open. JAMES is off at once to tell them that he is to be SHAND'S
brother-in-law. A teardrop clings to ALICK's nose; DAVID hits out
playfully at JOHN, and JOHN in an ecstasy returns the blow.]

DAVID. Fling yourself at the door, father, and bar them out. Maggie,
what keeps you so quiet now?

MAGGIE [weak in her limbs]. You're sure you're in, John?

JOHN. Majority 244. I've beaten the baronet. I've done it, Maggie,
and not a soul to help me; I've done it alone. [His voice breaks; you
could almost pick up the pieces.] I'm as hoarse as a crow, and I have
to address the Cowcaddens Club yet; David, pump some oxygen into me.

DAVID. Certainly, Mr. Shand. [While he does it, MAGGIE is seeing
visions.]

ALICK. What are you doing, Maggie?

MAGGIE. This is the House of Commons, and I'm John, catching the
Speaker's eye for the first time. Do you see a queer little old wifie
sitting away up there in the Ladies' Gallery? That's me. 'Mr.
Speaker, sir, I rise to make my historic maiden speech. I am no
orator, sir'; voice from Ladies' Gallery, 'Are you not, John? you'll
soon let them see that'; cries of 'Silence, woman,' and general
indignation. 'Mr. Speaker, sir, I stand here diffidently with my eyes
on the Treasury Bench'; voice from the Ladies' Gallery, 'And you'll
soon have your coat-tails on it, John'; loud cries of 'Remove that
little old wifie,' in which she is forcibly ejected, and the
honourable gentleman resumes his seat in a torrent of admiring
applause.

[ALICK and DAVID waggle their proud heads.]

JOHN [tolerantly]. Maggie, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You're not angry with me, John?

JOHN. No, no.

MAGGIE. But you glowered.

JOHN. I was thinking of Sir Peregrine. Just because I beat him at the
poll he took a shabby revenge; he congratulated me in French, a
language I haven't taken the trouble to master.

MAGGIE [becoming a little taller]. Would it help you, John, if you
were to marry a woman that could speak French?

DAVID [quickly]. Not at all.

MAGGIE [gloriously]. Mon cher Jean, laissez-moi parler le francais,
voulez-vous un interprete?

JOHN. Hullo!

MAGGIE. Je suis la soeur francaise de mes deux freres ecossais.

DAVID [worshipping her]. She's been learning French.

JOHN [lightly]. Well done.

MAGGIE [grandly]. They're arriving.

ALICK. Who?

MAGGIE. Our guests. This is London, and Mrs. John Shand is giving her
first reception. [Airily] Have I told you, darling, who are coming
to-night? There's that dear Sir Peregrine. [To ALICK] Sir Peregrine,
this is a pleasure. Avez-vous...So sorry we beat you at the poll.

JOHN. I'm doubting the baronet would sit on you, Maggie.

MAGGIE. I've invited a lord to sit on the baronet. Voila!

DAVID [delighted]. You thing! You'll find the lords expensive.

MAGGIE. Just a little cheap lord. [JAMES enters importantly.] My dear
Lord Cheap, this is kind of you.

[JAMES hopes that MAGGIE's reason is not unbalanced.]

DAVID [who really ought to have had education]. How de doo, Cheap?

JAMES [bewildered]. Maggie---

MAGGIE. Yes, do call me Maggie.

ALICK [grinning]. She's practising her first party, James. The swells
are at the door.

JAMES [heavily]. That's what I came to say. They are at the door.

JOHN. Who?

JAMES. The swells; in their motor. [He gives JOHN three cards.]

JOHN. 'Mr. Tenterden.'

DAVID. Him that was speaking for you?

JOHN. The same. He's a whip and an Honourable. 'Lady Sybil
Tenterden.' [Frowns.] Her! She's his sister.

MAGGIE. A married woman?

JOHN. No. 'The Comtesse de la Briere.'

MAGGIE [the scholar]. She must be French.

JOHN. Yes; I think she's some relation. She's a widow.

JAMES. But what am I to say to them? ['Mr. Shand's compliments, and
he will be proud to receive them' is the very least that the Wylies
expect.]

JOHN [who was evidently made for great ends]. Say I'm very busy, but
if they care to wait I hope presently to give them a few minutes.

JAMES [thunderstruck]. Good God, Mr. Shand!

[But it makes him JOHN'S more humble servant than ever, and he
departs with the message.]

JOHN [not unaware of the sensation he has created]. I'll go up and
let the crowd see me from the window.

MAGGIE. But--but--what are we to do with these ladies?

JOHN [as he tramps upwards]. It's your reception, Maggie; this will
prove you.

MAGGIE [growing smaller]. Tell me what you know about this Lady
Sybil?

JOHN. The only thing I know about her is that she thinks me vulgar.

MAGGIE. You?

JOHN. She has attended some of my meetings, and I'm told she said
that.

MAGGIE. What could the woman mean?

JOHN. I wonder. When I come down I'll ask her.

[With his departure MAGGIE'S nervousness increases.]

ALICK [encouragingly]. In at them, Maggie, with your French.

MAGGIE. It's all slipping from me, father.

DAVID [gloomily]. I'm sure to say 'for to come for to go.'

[The newcomers glorify the room, and MAGGIE feels that they have
lifted her up with the tongs and deposited her in one of the basins.
They are far from intending to be rude; it is not their fault that
thus do swans scatter the ducks. They do not know that they are
guests of the family, they think merely that they are waiting with
other strangers in a public room; they undulate inquiringly, and if
MAGGIE could undulate in return she would have no cause for offence.
But she suddenly realises that this is an art as yet denied her, and
that though DAVID might buy her evening-gowns as fine as theirs [and
is at this moment probably deciding to do so], she would look better
carrying them in her arms than on her person. She also feels that to
emerge from wraps as they are doing is more difficult than to plank
your money on the counter for them. The COMTESSE she could forgive,
for she is old; but LADY SYBIL is young and beautiful and comes
lazily to rest like a stately ship of Tarsus.]

COMTESSE [smiling divinely, and speaking with such a pretty accent].
I hope one is not in the way. We were told we might wait.

MAGGIE [bravely climbing out of the basin]. Certainly--I am sure if
you will be so--it is--

[She knows that DAVID and her father are very sorry for her.] 

[A high voice is heard orating outside.]

SYBIL [screwing her nose deliciously]. He is at it again, Auntie.

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu! [Like one begging pardon of the universe] It is
Mr. Tenterden, you understand, making one more of his delightful
speeches to the crowd. WOULD you be so charming as to shut the door?

[This to DAVID in such appeal that she is evidently making the
petition of her life. DAVID saves her.]

MAGGIE [determined not to go under]. J'espere que vous--trouvez--
cette--reunion--interessante?

COMTESSE. Vous parlez francais? Mais c'est charmant! Voyons, causons
un peu. Racontez-moi tout de ce grand homme, toutes les choses
merveilleuses qu'il a faites.

MAGGIE. I--I--Je connais--[Alas!]

COMTESSE [naughtily]. Forgive me, Mademoiselle, I thought you spoke
French.

SYBIL [who knows that DAVID admires her shoulders]. How wicked of
you, Auntie. [To MAGGIE] I assure you none of us can understand her
when she gallops at that pace.

MAGGIE [crushed]. It doesn't matter. I will tell Mr. Shand that you
are here.

SYBIL [drawling]. Please don't trouble him. We are really only
waiting till my brother recovers and can take us back to our hotel.

MAGGIE. I'll tell him.

[She is glad to disappear up the stair.]

COMTESSE. The lady seems distressed. Is she a relation of Mr. Shand?

DAVID. Not for to say a relation. She's my sister. Our name is Wylie.

[But granite quarries are nothing to them.]

COMTESSE. How do you do. You are the committee man of Mr. Shand?

DAVID. No, just friends.

COMTESSE [gaily to the basins]. Aha! I know you. Next, please! Sybil,
do you weigh yourself, or are you asleep?

[LADY SYBIL has sunk indolently into a weighing-chair.]

SYBIL. Not quite, Auntie.

COMTESSE [the mirror of la politesse]. Tell me all about Mr. Shand.
Was it here that he--picked up the pin?

DAVID. The pin?

COMTESSE. As I have read, a self-made man always begins by picking up
a pin. After that, as the memoirs say, his rise was rapid.

[DAVID, however, is once more master of himself, and indeed has begun
to tot up the cost of their garments.]

DAVID. It wasn't a pin he picked up, my lady; it was L300.

ALICK [who feels that JOHN's greatness has been outside the
conversation quite long enough]. And his rise wasn't so rapid, just
at first, David!

DAVID. He had his fight. His original intention was to become a
minister; he's university-educated, you know; he's not a working-man
member.

ALICK [with reverence]. He's an M.A. But while he was a student he
got a place in an iron-cementer's business.

COMTESSE [now far out of her depths]. Iron-cementer?

DAVID. They scrape boilers.

COMTESSE. I see. The fun men have, Sybil!

DAVID [with some solemnity]. There have been millions made in
scraping boilers. They say, father, he went into business so as to be
able to pay off the L300.

ALICK [slily]. So I've heard.

COMTESSE. Aha--it was a loan?

[DAVID and ALICK are astride their great subject now.]

DAVID. No, a gift--of a sort--from some well-wishers. But they
wouldn't hear of his paying it off, father!

ALICK. Not them!

COMTESSE [restraining an impulse to think of other things]. That was
kind, charming.

ALICK [with a look at DAVID]. Yes. Well, my lady, he developed a
perfect genius for the iron-cementing.

DAVID. But his ambition wasn't satisfied. Soon he had public life in
his eye. As a heckler he was something fearsome; they had to seat him
on the platform for to keep him quiet. Next they had to let him into
the Chair. After that he did all the speaking; he cleared all roads
before him like a fire-engine; and when this vacancy occurred, you
could hardly say it did occur, so quickly did he step into it. My
lady, there are few more impressive sights in the world than a
Scotsman on the make.

COMTESSE. I can well believe it. And now he has said farewell to
boilers?

DAVID [impressively]. Not at all; the firm promised if he was elected
for to make him their London manager at L800 a year.

COMTESSE. There is a strong man for you, Sybil; but I believe you
ARE asleep.

SYBIL [stirring herself]. Honestly, I'm not. [Sweetly to the others]
But would you mind finding out whether my brother is drawing to a
close?

[DAVID goes out, leaving poor ALICK marooned. The COMTESSE is kind to
him.]

COMTESSE. Thank you very much. [Which helps ALICK out.] Don't you
love a strong man, sleepy head?

SYBIL [preening herself]. I never met one.

COMTESSE. Neither have I. But if you DID meet one, would he wakes you
up?

SYBIL. I dare say he would find there were two of us.

COMTESSE [considering her]. Yes, I think he would. Ever been in love,
you cold thing?

SYBIL [yawning]. I have never shot up in flame, Auntie.

COMTESSE. Think you could manage it?

SYBIL. If Mr. Right came along.

COMTESSE. As a girl of to-day it would be your duty to tame him.

SYBIL. As a girl of to-day I would try to do my duty.

COMTESSE. And if it turned out that HE tamed you instead?

SYBIL. He would have to do that if he were MY Mr. Right.

COMTESSE. And then?

SYBIL. Then, of course, I should adore him. Auntie, I think if I ever
really love it will be like Mary Queen of Scots, who said of her
Bothwell that she could follow him round the world in her nighty.

COMTESSE. My petite!

SYBIL. I believe I mean it.

COMTESSE. Oh, it is quite my conception of your character. Do you
know, I am rather sorry for this Mr. John Shand.

SYBIL [opening her fine eyes]. Why? He is quite a boor, is he not?

COMTESSE. For that very reason. Because his great hour is already
nearly sped. That wild bull manner that moves the multitude--they
will laugh at it in your House of Commons.

SYBIL [indifferent]. I suppose so.

COMTESSE. Yet if he had education---

SYBIL. Have we not been hearing how superbly he is educated?

COMTESSE. It is such as you or me that he needs to educate him now.
You could do it almost too well.

SYBIL [with that pretty stretch of neck]. I am not sufficiently
interested. I retire in your favour. How would you begin?

COMTESSE. By asking him to drop in, about five, of course. By the
way, I wonder is there a Mrs. Shand?

SYBIL. I have no idea. But they marry young.

COMTESSE. If there is not, there is probably a lady waiting for him,
somewhere in a boiler.

SYBIL. I dare say.

[MAGGIE descends.]

MAGGIE. Mr. Shand will be down directly.

COMTESSE. Thank you. Your brother has been giving us such an
interesting account of his career. I forget, Sybil, whether he said
that he was married.

MAGGIE. No, he's not married; but he will be soon.

COMTESSE. Ah! [She is merely making conversation.] A friend of yours?

MAGGIE [now a scorner of herself]. I don't think much of her.

COMTESSE. In that case, tell me all about her.

MAGGIE. There's not much to tell. She's common, and stupid. One of
those who go in for self-culture; and then when the test comes they
break down. [With sinister enjoyment] She'll be the ruin of him.

COMTESSE. But is not that sad! Figure to yourself how many men with
greatness before them have been shipwrecked by marrying in the rank
from which they sprang.

MAGGIE. I've told her that.

COMTESSE. But she will not give him up?

MAGGIE. No.

SYBIL. Why should she if he cares for her? What is her name?

MAGGIE. It's--Maggie.

COMTESSE [still uninterested]. Well, I am afraid that Maggie is to do
for John. [JOHN comes down.] Ah, our hero!

JOHN. Sorry I have kept you waiting. The Comtesse?

COMTESSE. And my niece Lady Sybil Tenterden. [SYBIL'S head inclines
on its stem.] She is not really all my niece; I mean I am only half
of her aunt. What a triumph, Mr. Shand!

JOHN. Oh, pretty fair, pretty fair. Your brother has just finished
addressing the crowd, Lady Sybil.

SYBIL. Then we must not detain Mr. Shand, Auntie.

COMTESSE [who unless her heart is touched thinks insincerity
charming]. Only one word. I heard you speak last night. Sublime! Just
the sort of impassioned eloquence that your House of Commons loves.

JOHN. It's very good of you to say so.

COMTESSE. But we must run. Bon soir.

[SYBIL bows as to some one far away.]

JOHN. Good-night, Lady Sybil. I hear you think I'm vulgar. [Eyebrows
are raised.]

COMTESSE. My dear Mr. Shand, what absurd---

JOHN. I was told she said that after hearing me speak.

COMTESSE. Quite a mistake, I---

JOHN [doggedly]. Is it not true?

SYBIL ['waking up']. You seem to know, Mr. Shand; and as you press me
so unnecessarily--well, yes, that is how you struck me.

COMTESSE. My child!

SYBIL [who is a little agitated]. He would have it.

JOHN [perplexed]. What's the matter? I just wanted to know, because
if it's true I must alter it.

COMTESSE. There, Sybil, see how he values your good opinion.

SYBIL [her svelte figure giving like a fishing-rod]. It is very nice
of you to put it in that way, Mr. Shand. Forgive me.

JOHN. But I don't quite understand yet. Of course, it can't matter to
me, Lady Sybil, what you think of me; what I mean is, that I mustn't
be vulgar if it would be injurious to my career.

[The fishing-rod regains its rigidity.]

SYBIL. I see. No, of course, I could not affect your career, Mr
Shand.

JOHN [who quite understands that he is being challenged]. That's so,
Lady Sybil, meaning no offence.

SYBIL [who has a naughty little impediment in her voice when she is
most alluring]. Of course not. And we are friends again?

JOHN. Certainly.

SYBIL. Then I hope you will come to see me in London as I present no
terrors.

JOHN [he is a man, is JOHN]. I'll be very pleased.

SYBIL. Any afternoon about five.

JOHN. Much obliged. And you can teach me the things I don't know yet,
if you'll be so kind.

SYBIL [the impediment becoming more assertive]. If you wish it, I
shall do my best.

JOHN. Thank you, Lady Sybil. And who knows there may be one or two
things I can teach you.

SYBIL [it has now become an angel's hiccough]. Yes, we can help one
another. Good-bye till then.

JOHN. Good-bye. Maggie, the ladies are going.

[During this skirmish MAGGIE has stood apart. At the mention of her
name they glance at one another. JOHN escorts SYBIL, but the COMTESSE
turns back.]

COMTESSE. Are you, then, THE Maggie? [MAGGIE nods rather defiantly
and the COMTESSE is distressed.] But if I had known I would not have
said those things. Please forgive an old woman.

MAGGIE. It doesn't matter.

COMTESSE. I--I dare say it will be all right. Mademoiselle, if I were
you I would not encourage those tete-a-tetes with Lady Sybil. I am
the rude one, but she is the dangerous one; and I am afraid his
impudence has attracted her. Bon voyage, Miss Maggie.

MAGGIE. Good-bye--but I CAN speak French. Je parle francais. Isn't
that right?

COMTESSE. But, yes, it is excellent. [Making things easy for her]
C'est tres bien.

MAGGIE. Je me suis embrouillee--la derniere fois.

COMTESSE. Good! Shall I speak more slowly?

MAGGIE. No, no. Nonon, non, faster, faster.

COMTESSE. J'admire votre courage!

MAGGIE. Je comprends chaque mot.

COMTESSE. Parfait! Bravo!

MAGGIE. Voila!

COMTESSE. Superbe!

[She goes, applauding; and MAGGIE has a moment of elation, which
however has passed before JOHN returns for his hat.]

MAGGIE. Have you more speaking to do, John? [He is somehow in high
good-humour.]

JOHN. I must run across and address the Cowcaddens Club. [He sprays
his throat with a hand-spray.] I wonder if I AM vulgar, Maggie?

MAGGIE. You are not, but _I_ am.

JOHN. Not that _I_ can see.

MAGGIE. Look how overdressed I am, John. I knew it was too showy when
I ordered it, and yet I could not resist the thing. But I will tone
it down, I will. What did you think of Lady Sybil?

JOHN. That young woman had better be careful. She's a bit of a besom,
Maggie.

MAGGIE. She's beautiful, John.

JOHN. She has a neat way of stretching herself. For playing with she
would do as well as another.

[She looks at him wistfully.]

MAGGIE. You couldn't stay and have a talk for a few minutes?

JOHN. If you want me, Maggie. The longer you keep them waiting, the
more they think of you.

MAGGIE. When are you to announce that we're to be married, John?

JOHN. I won't be long. You've waited a year more than you need have
done, so I think it's your due I should hurry things now.

MAGGIE. I think it's noble of you.

JOHN. Not at all, Maggie; the nobleness has been yours in waiting so
patiently. And your brothers would insist on it at any rate. They're
watching me like cats with a mouse.

MAGGIE. It's so little I've done to help.

JOHN. Three hundred pounds.

MAGGIE. I'm getting a thousand per cent for it.

JOHN. And very pleased I am you should think so, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Is it terrible hard to you, John?

JOHN. It's not hard at all. I can say truthfully, Maggie, that all,
or nearly all, I've seen of you in these six years has gone to
increase my respect for you.

MAGGIE. Respect!

JOHN. And a bargain's a bargain.

MAGGIE. If it wasn't that you're so glorious to me, John, I would let
you off.

[There is a gleam in his eye, but he puts it out.]

JOHN. In my opinion, Maggie, we'll be a very happy pair.

[She accepts this eagerly.]

MAGGIE. We know each other so well, John, don't we?

JOHN. I'm an extraordinary queer character, and I suppose nobody
knows me well except myself; but I know you, Maggie, to the very
roots of you.

[She magnanimously lets this remark alone.]

MAGGIE. And it's not as if there was any other woman you--fancied
more, John.

JOHN. There's none whatever.

MAGGIE. If there ever should be--oh, if there ever should be! Some
woman with charm.

JOHN. Maggie, you forget yourself. There couldn't be another woman
once I was a married man.

MAGGIE. One has heard of such things.

JOHN. Not in Scotsmen, Maggie; not in Scotsmen.

MAGGIE. I've sometimes thought, John, that the difference between us
and the English is that the Scotch are hard in all other respects but
soft with women, and the English are hard with women but soft in all
other respects.

JOHN. You've forgotten the grandest moral attribute of a Scotsman,
Maggie, that he'll do nothing which might damage his career.

MAGGIE. Ah, but John, whatever you do, you do it so tremendously; and
if you were to love, what a passion it would be.

JOHN. There's something in that, I suppose.

MAGGIE. And then, what could I do? For the desire of my life now,
John, is to help you to get everything you want, except just that I
want you to have me, too.

JOHN. We'll get on fine, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You're just making the best of it. They say that love is
sympathy, and if that's so, mine must be a great love for you, for I
see all you are feeling this night and bravely hiding; I feel for you
as if I was John Shand myself. [He sighs.]

JOHN. I had best go to the meeting, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Not yet. Can you look me in the face, John, and deny that
there is surging within you a mighty desire to be free, to begin the
new life untrammelled?

JOHN. Leave such maggots alone, Maggie.

MAGGIE. It's a shame of me not to give you up.

JOHN. I would consider you a very foolish woman if you did.

MAGGIE. If I were John Shand I would no more want to take Maggie
Wylie with me through the beautiful door that has opened wide for you
than I would want to take an old pair of shoon. Why don't you bang
the door in my face, John? [A tremor runs through JOHN.]

JOHN. A bargain's a bargain, Maggie.

[MAGGIE moves about, an eerie figure, breaking into little cries. She
flutters round him, threateningly.]

MAGGIE. Say one word about wanting to get out of it, and I'll put the
lawyers on you.

JOHN. Have I hinted at such a thing?

MAGGIE. The document holds you hard and fast.

JOHN. It does.

[She gloats miserably.]

MAGGIE. The woman never rises with the man. I'll drag you down, John.
I'll drag you down.

JOHN. Have no fear of that, I won't let you. I'm too strong.

MAGGIE. You'll miss the prettiest thing in the world, and all owing
to me.

JOHN. What's that?

MAGGIE. Romance.

JOHN. Poof.

MAGGIE. All's cold and grey without it, John. They that have had it
have slipped in and out of heaven.

JOHN. You're exaggerating, Maggie.

MAGGIE. You've worked so hard, you've had none of the fun that comes
to most men long before they're your age.

JOHN. I never was one for fun. I cannot call to mind, Maggie, ever
having laughed in my life.

MAGGIE. You have no sense of humour.

JOHN. Not a spark.

MAGGIE. I've sometimes thought that if you had, it might make you
fonder of me. I think one needs a sense of humour to be fond of me.

JOHN. I remember reading of some one that said it needed a surgical
operation to get a joke into a Scotsman's head.

MAGGIE. Yes, that's been said.

JOHN. What beats me, Maggie, is how you could insert a joke with an
operation.

[He considers this and gives it up.]

MAGGIE. That's not the kind of fun I was thinking of. I mean fun with
the lasses, John--gay, jolly, harmless fun. They could be impudent
fashionable beauties now, stretching themselves to attract you, like
that hiccoughing little devil, and running away from you, and
crooking their fingers to you to run after them.

[He draws a big breath.]

JOHN. No, I never had that.

MAGGIE. It's every man's birthright, and you would have it now but
for me.

JOHN. I can do without, Maggie.

MAGGIE. It's like missing out all the Saturdays.

JOHN. You feel sure, I suppose, that an older man wouldn't suit you
better, Maggie?

MAGGIE. I couldn't feel surer of anything. You're just my ideal.

JOHN. Yes, yes. Well, that's as it should be.

[She threatens him again.]

MAGGIE. David has the document. It's carefully locked away.

JOHN. He would naturally take good care of it.

[The pride of the Wylies deserts her.]

MAGGIE. John, I make you a solemn promise that, in consideration of
the circumstances of our marriage, if you should ever fall in love
I'll act differently from other wives.

JOHN. There will be no occasion, Maggie.

[Her voice becomes tremulous.]

MAGGIE. John, David doesn't have the document. He thinks he has, but
I have it here.

[Somewhat heavily JOHN surveys the fatal paper.]

JOHN. Well do I mind the look of it, Maggie. Yes, yes, that's it.
Umpha.

MAGGIE. You don't ask why I've brought it.

JOHN. Why did you?

MAGGIE. Because I thought I might perhaps have the courage and the
womanliness to give it back to you. [JOHN has a brief dream.] Will
you never hold it up against me in the future that I couldn't do
that?

JOHN. I promise you, Maggie, I never will.

MAGGIE. To go back to The Pans and take up my old life there, when
all these six years my eyes have been centred on this night! I've
been waiting for this night as long as you have been; and now to go
back there, and wizen and dry up, when I might be married to John
Shand!

JOHN. And you will be, Maggie. You have my word.

MAGGIE. Never--never--never. [She tears up the document. He remains
seated immovable, but the gleam returns to his eye. She rages first
at herself and then at him.] I'm a fool, a fool, to let you go. I
tell you, you'll rue this day, for you need me, you'll come to grief
without me. There's nobody can help you as I could have helped you.
I'm essential to your career, and you're blind not to see it.

JOHN. What's that, Maggie? In no circumstances would I allow any
meddling with my career.

MAGGIE. You would never have known I was meddling with it. But that's
over. Don't be in too great a hurry to marry, John. Have your fling
with the beautiful dolls first. Get the whiphand of the haughty ones,
John. Give them their licks. Every time they hiccough let them have
an extra slap in memory of me. And be sure to remember this, my man,
that the one who marries you will find you out.

JOHN. Find me out?

MAGGIE. However careful a man is, his wife always finds out his
failings.

JOHN. I don't know, Maggie, to what failings you refer.

[The Cowcaddens Club has burst its walls, and is pouring this way to
raise the new Member on its crest. The first wave hurls itself
against the barber's shop with cries of 'Shand, Shand, Shand.' For a
moment, JOHN stems the torrent by planting his back against the
door.]

You are acting under an impulse, Maggie, and I can't take advantage
of it. Think the matter over, and we'll speak about it in the
morning.

MAGGIE. No, I can't go through it again. It ends to-night and now.
Good luck, John.

[She is immediately submerged in the sea that surges through the
door, bringing much wreckage with it. In a moment the place is so
full that another cupful could not find standing room. Some slippery
ones are squeezed upwards and remain aloft as warnings. JOHN has
jumped on to the stair, and harangues the flood vainly like another
Canute. It is something about freedom and noble minds, and, though
unheard, goes to all heads, including the speaker's. By the time he
is audible sentiment has him for her own.]

JOHN. But, gentlemen, one may have too much even of freedom [No, no.]
Yes, Mr. Adamson. One may want to be tied. [Never, never.] I say yes,
Willie Cameron; and I have found a young lady who I am proud to say
is willing to be tied to me. I'm to be married. [Uproar.] Her name's
Miss Wylie. [Transport.] Quiet; she's here now. [Frenzy.] She was
here! Where are you, Maggie? [A small voice--'I'm here.' A hundred
great voices--'Where--where--where?' The small voice--'I'm so little
none of you can see me.']

[Three men, name of Wylie, buffet their way forward.]

DAVID. James, father, have you grip of her?

ALICK. We've got her.

DAVID. Then hoist her up.

[The queer little elated figure is raised aloft. With her fingers she
can just touch the stars. Not unconscious of the nobility of his
behaviour, the hero of the evening points an impressive finger at
her.]

JOHN. Gentlemen, the future Mrs. John Shand! [Cries of 'Speech,
speech!'] No, no, being a lady she can't make a speech, but---

[The heroine of the evening surprises him.]

MAGGIE. I can make a speech, and I will make a speech, and it's in
two words, and they're these [holding out her arms to enfold all the
members of the Cowcaddens Club]--My Constituents! [Dementia.]




ACT III

[A few minutes ago the Comtesse de la Briere, who has not recently
been in England, was shown into the London home of the Shands. Though
not sufficiently interested to express her surprise in words, she
raised her eyebrows on finding herself in a charming room; she has
presumed that the Shand scheme of decoration would be as impossible
as themselves.

It is the little room behind the dining-room for which English
architects have long been famous; 'Make something of this, and you
will indeed be a clever one,' they seem to say to you as they unveil
it. The Comtesse finds that John has undoubtedly made something of
it. It is his 'study' (mon Dieu, the words these English use!) and
there is nothing in it that offends; there is so much not in it too
that might so easily have been there. It is not in the least ornate;
there are no colours quarrelling with each other (unseen, unheard by
the blissful occupant of the revolving chair); the Comtesse has not
even the gentle satisfaction of noting a 'suite' in stained oak.
Nature might have taken a share in the decorations, so restful are
they to the eyes; it is the working room of a man of culture,
probably lately down from Oxford; at a first meeting there is nothing
in it that pretends to be what it is not. Our visitor is a little
disappointed, but being fair-minded blows her absent host a kiss for
disappointing her.

He has even, she observes with a twinkle, made something of the most
difficult of his possessions, the little wife. For Maggie, who is
here receiving her, has been quite creditably toned down. He has put
her into a little grey frock that not only deals gently with her
personal defects, but is in harmony with the room. Evidently,
however, she has not 'risen' with him, for she is as ever; the
Comtesse, who remembers having liked her the better of the two, could
shake her for being so stupid. For instance, why is she not asserting
herself in that other apartment?

The other apartment is really a correctly solemn dining-room, of
which we have a glimpse through partly open folding-doors. At this
moment it is harbouring Mr. Shand's ladies' committee, who sit with
pens and foolscap round the large table, awaiting the advent of their
leader. There are nobly wise ones and some foolish ones among them,
for we are back in the strange days when it was considered
'unwomanly' for women to have minds. The Comtesse peeps at them with
curiosity, as they arrange their papers or are ushered into the
dining-room through a door which we cannot see. To her frivolous
ladyship they are a species of wild fowl, and she is specially amused
to find her niece among them. She demands an explanation as soon as
the communicating doors close.]

COMTESSE. Tell me since when has my dear Sybil become one of these
ladies? It is not like her.

[MAGGIE is obviously not clever enough to understand the woman
question. Her eye rests longingly on a half-finished stocking as she
innocently but densely replies:]

 MAGGIE. I think it was about the time that my husband took up their
cause.

[The COMTESSE has been hearing tales of LADY SYBIL and the barbarian;
and after having the grace to hesitate, she speaks with the
directness for which she is famed in Mayfair.]

COMTESSE. Mrs. Shand, excuse me for saying that if half of what I
hear be true, your husband is seeing that lady a great deal too
often. [MAGGIE is expressionless; she reaches for her stocking,
whereat her guest loses patience.] Oh, mon Dieu, put that down; you
can buy them at two francs the pair. Mrs. Shand, why do not you
compel yourself to take an intelligent interest in your husband's
work?

MAGGIE. I typewrite his speeches.

COMTESSE. But do you know what they are about?

MAGGIE. They are about various subjects.

COMTESSE. Oh!

[Did MAGGIE give her an unseen quizzical glance before demurely
resuming the knitting? One is not certain, as JOHN has come in, and
this obliterates her. A 'Scotsman on the make,' of whom DAVID has
spoken reverently, is still to be read--in a somewhat better bound
volume--in JOHN SHAND's person; but it is as doggedly honest a face
as ever; and he champions women, not for personal ends, but because
his blessed days of poverty gave him a light upon their needs. His
self-satisfaction, however, has increased, and he has pleasantly
forgotten some things. For instance, he can now call out 'Porter' at
railway stations without dropping his hands for the barrow. MAGGIE
introduces the COMTESSE, and he is still undaunted.]

JOHN. I remember you well--at Glasgow.

COMTESSE. It must be quite two years ago, Mr. Shand.

[JOHN has no objection to showing that he has had a classical
education.]

JOHN. Tempus fugit, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. I have not been much in this country since then, and I
return to find you a coming man.

[Fortunately his learning is tempered with modesty.]

JOHN. Oh, I don't know, I don't know.

COMTESSE. The Ladies' Champion.

[His modesty is tempered with a respect for truth.]

JOHN. Well, well.

COMTESSE. And you are about, as I understand, to introduce a bill to
give women an equal right with men to grow beards [which is all she
knows about it. He takes the remark literally.]

JOHN. There's nothing about beards in it, Comtesse. [She gives him
time to cogitate, and is pleased to note that there is no result.]
Have you typed my speech, Maggie?

MAGGIE. Yes; twenty-six pages. [She produces it from a drawer.]

[Perhaps JOHN wishes to impress the visitor.]

JOHN. I'm to give the ladies' committee a general idea of it. Just
see, Maggie, if I know the peroration. 'In conclusion, Mr. Speaker,
these are the reasonable demands of every intelligent Englishwoman'--
I had better say British woman--'and I am proud to nail them to my
flag'---

[The visitor is properly impressed.]

COMTESSE. Oho! defies his leaders!

JOHN. 'So long as I can do so without embarrassing the Government.'

COMTESSE. Ah, ah, Mr. Shand!

JOHN. 'I call upon the Front Bench, sir, loyally but firmly'--

COMTESSE. Firm again!

JOHN. --'either to accept my Bill, or to promise WITHOUT DELAY to
bring in one of their own; and if they decline to do so I solemnly
warn them that though I will not press the matter to a division just
now'--

COMTESSE. Ahem!

JOHN. 'I will bring it forward again in the near future.' And now
Comtesse, you know that I'm not going to divide--and not another soul
knows it.

COMTESSE. I am indeed flattered by your confidence.

JOHN. I've only told you because I don't care who knows now.

COMTESSE. Oh!

[Somehow MAGGIE seems to be dissatisfied.]

MAGGIE. But why is that, John?

JOHN. I daren't keep the Government in doubt any longer about what I
mean to do. I'll show the whips the speech privately to-night.

MAGGIE [who still wants to know]. But not to go to a division is
hedging, isn't it? Is that strong?

JOHN. To make the speech at all, Maggie, is stronger than most would
dare. They would do for me if I went to a division.

MAGGIE. Bark but not bite?

JOHN. Now, now, Maggie, you're out of your depth.

MAGGIE. I suppose that's it.

[The COMTESSE remains in the shallows.]

COMTESSE. But what will the ladies say, Mr. Shand?

JOHN. They won't like it, Comtesse, but they've got to lump it.

[Here the maid appears with a card for MAGGIE, who considers it
quietly.]

JOHN. Any one of importance?

MAGGIE. No.

JOHN. Then I'm ready, Maggie.

[This is evidently an intimation that she is to open the folding-doors,
and he makes an effective entrance into the dining-room, his
thumb in his waistcoat. There is a delicious clapping of hands from
the committee, and the door closes. Not till then does MAGGIE, who
has grown thoughtful, tell her maid to admit the visitor.]

COMTESSE. Another lady, Mrs. Shand?

MAGGIE. The card says 'Mr. Charles Venables.'

[The COMTESSE is really interested at last.]

COMTESSE. Charles Venables! Do you know him?

MAGGIE. I think I call to mind meeting one of that name at the
Foreign Office party.

COMTESSE. One of that name! He who is a Minister of your Cabinet. But
as you know him so little why should he call on you?

MAGGIE. I wonder.

[MAGGIE's glance wanders to the drawer in which she has replaced
JOHN's speech.]

COMTESSE. Well, well, I shall take care of you, petite.

MAGGIE. Do you know him?

COMTESSE. Do I know him! The last time I saw him he asked me to--to--
hem!--ma cherie, it was thirty years ago.

MAGGIE. Thirty years!

COMTESSE. I was a pretty woman then. I dare say I shall detest him
now; but if I find I do not--let us have a little plot--I shall drop
this book; and then perhaps you will be so charming as--as not to be
here for a little while?

[MR. VENABLES, who enters, is such a courtly seigneur that he seems
to bring the eighteenth century with him; you feel that his sedan
chair is at the door. He stoops over MAGGIE's plebeian hand.]

VENABLES. I hope you will pardon my calling, Mrs. Shand; we had such
a pleasant talk the other evening.

[MAGGIE, of course, is at once deceived by his gracious manner.]

MAGGIE. I think it's kind of you. Do you know each other? The
Comtesse de la Briere.

[He repeats the name with some emotion, and the COMTESSE, half
mischievously, half sadly, holds a hand before her face.]

VENABLES. Comtesse.

COMTESSE. Thirty years, Mr. Venables.

[He gallantly removes the hand that screens her face.]

VENABLES. It does not seem so much.

[She gives him a similar scrutiny.]

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu, it seems all that.

[They smile rather ruefully. MAGGIE like a kind hostess relieves the
tension.]

MAGGIE. The Comtesse has taken a cottage in Surrey for the summer.

VENABLES. I am overjoyed.

COMTESSE. No, Charles, you are not. You no longer care. Fickle one!
And it is only thirty years.

[He sinks into a chair beside her.]

VENABLES. Those heavenly evenings, Comtesse, on the Bosphorus.

COMTESSE. I refuse to talk of them. I hate you.

[But she drops the book, and MAGGIE fades from the room. It is not a
very clever departure, and the old diplomatist smiles. Then he sighs
a beautiful sigh, for he does all things beautifully.]

VENABLES. It is moonlight, Comtesse, on the Golden Horn.

COMTESSE. Who are those two young things in a caique?

VENABLES. Is he the brave Leander, Comtesse, and is she Hero of the
Lamp?

COMTESSE. No, she is the foolish wife of the French Ambassador, and
he is a good-for-nothing British attache trying to get her husband's
secrets out of her.

VENABLES. Is it possible! They part at a certain garden gate.

COMTESSE. Oh, Charles, Charles!

VENABLES. But you promised to come back; I waited there till dawn.
Blanche, if you HAD come back--

COMTESSE. How is Mrs. Venables?

VENABLES. She is rather poorly. I think it's gout.

COMTESSE. And you?

VENABLES. I creak a little in the mornings.

COMTESSE. So do I. There is such a good man at Wiesbaden.

VENABLES. The Homburg fellow is better. The way he patched me up last
summer--Oh, Lord, Lord!

COMTESSE. Yes, Charles, the game is up; we are two old fogies. [They
groan in unison; then she raps him sharply on the knuckles.] Tell me,
sir, what are you doing here?

VENABLES. Merely a friendly call.

COMTESSE. I do not believe it.

VENABLES. The same woman; the old delightful candour.

COMTESSE. The same man; the old fibs. [She sees that the door is
asking a question.] Yes, come, Mrs. Shand, I have had quite enough of
him; I warn you he is here for some crafty purpose.

MAGGIE [drawing back timidly]. Surely not?

VENABLES. Really, Comtesse, you make conversation difficult. To show
that my intentions are innocent, Mrs. Shand, I propose that you
choose the subject.

MAGGIE [relieved]. There, Comtesse.

VENABLES. I hope your husband is well?

MAGGIE. Yes, thank you. [With a happy thought] I decide that we talk
about him.

VENABLES. If you wish it.

COMTESSE. Be careful; HE has chosen the subject.

MAGGIE. _I_ chose it, didn't I?

VENABLES. You know you did.

MAGGIE [appealingly]. You admire John?

VENABLES. Very much. But he puzzles me a little. You Scots, Mrs.
Shand, are such a mixture of the practical and the emotional that you
escape out of an Englishman's hand like a trout.

MAGGIE [open-eyed]. Do we?

VENABLES. Well, not you, but your husband. I have known few men make
a worse beginning in the House. He had the most atrocious bow-wow
public-park manner---

COMTESSE. I remember that manner!

MAGGIE. No, he hadn't.

VENABLES [soothingly]. At first. But by his second session he had
shed all that, and he is now a pleasure to listen to. By the way,
Comtesse, have you found any dark intention in that?

COMTESSE. You wanted to know whether he talks over these matter with
his wife; and she has told you that he does not.

MAGGIE [indignantly]. I haven't said a word about it, have I?

VENABLES. Not a word. Then, again, I admire him for his impromptu
speeches.

MAGGIE. What is impromptu?

VENABLES. Unprepared. They have contained some grave blunders not so
much of judgment as of taste---

MAGGIE [hotly]. _I_ don't think so.

VENABLES. Pardon me. But he has righted himself subsequently in the
neatest way. I have always found that the man whose second thoughts
are good is worth watching. Well, Comtesse, I see you have something
to say.

COMTESSE. You are wondering whether she can tell you who gives him
his second thoughts.

MAGGIE. Gives them to John? I would like to see anybody try to give
thoughts to John.

VENABLES. Quite so.

COMTESSE. Is there anything more that has roused your admiration
Charles?

VENABLES [purring]. Let me see. Yes, we are all much edified by his
humour.

COMTESSE [surprised indeed]. His humour? That man!

MAGGIE [with hauteur]. Why not?

VENABLES. I assure you, Comtesse, some of the neat things in his
speeches convulse the house. A word has even been coined for them--
Shandisms.

COMTESSE [slowly recovering from a blow]. Humour!

VENABLES. In conversation, I admit, he strikes one as being--ah--
somewhat lacking in humour.

COMTESSE [pouncing]. You are wondering who supplies his speeches with
the humour.

MAGGIE. Supplies John?

VENABLES. Now that you mention it, some of his Shandisms do have a
curiously feminine quality.

COMTESSE. You have thought it might be a woman.

VENABLES. Really, Comtesse--

COMTESSE. I see it all. Charles, you thought it might be the wife!

VENABLES [flinging up his hands]. I own up.

MAGGIE [bewildered]. Me?

VENABLES. Forgive me, I see I was wrong.

MAGGIE [alarmed]. Have I been doing John any harm?

VENABLES. On the contrary, I am relieved to know that there are no
hairpins in his speeches. If he is at home, Mrs. Shand, may I see
him? I am going to be rather charming to him.

MAGGIE [drawn in two directions]. Yes, he is--oh yes--but--

VENABLES. That is to say, Comtesse, if he proves himself the man I
believe him to be.

[This arrests MAGGIE almost as she has reached the dining-room door.]

MAGGIE [hesitating]. He is very busy just now.

VENABLES [smiling]. I think he will see me.

MAGGIE. Is it something about his speech?

VENABLES [the smile hardening]. Well, yes, it is.

MAGGIE. Then I dare say I could tell you what you want to know
without troubling him, as I've been typing it.

VENABLES [with a sigh]. I don't acquire information in that way.

COMTESSE. I trust not.

MAGGIE. There's no secret about it. He is to show it to the whips
tonight.

VENABLES [sharply]. You are sure of that?

COMTESSE. It is quite true, Charles. I heard him say so; and indeed
he repeated what he called the 'peroration' before me.

MAGGIE. I know it by heart. [She plays a bold game.] 'These are the
demands of all intelligent British women, and I am proud to nail them
to my flag'--

COMTESSE. The very words, Mrs. Shand.

MAGGIE [looking at her imploringly]. 'And I don't care how they may
embarrass the Government.' [The COMTESSE is bereft of speech, so
suddenly has she been introduced to the real MAGGIE SHAND]. 'If the
right honourable gentleman will give us his pledge to introduce a
similar Bill this session I will willingly withdraw mine; but
otherwise I solemnly warn him that I will press the matter now to a
division.'

[She turns her face from the great man; she has gone white.]

VENABLES [after a pause]. Capital.

[The blood returns to MAGGIE's heart.]

COMTESSE [who is beginning to enjoy herself very much]. Then you are
pleased to know that he means to, as you say, go to a division?

VENABLES. Delighted. The courage of it will be the making of him.

COMTESSE. I see.

VENABLES. Had he been to hedge we should have known that he was a
pasteboard knight and have disregarded him.

COMTESSE. I see.

[She desires to catch the eye of MAGGIE, but it is carefully turned
from her.]

VENABLES. Mrs. Shand, let us have him in at once.

COMTESSE. Yes, yes, indeed.

[MAGGIE's anxiety returns, but she has to call JOHN in.]

JOHN [impressed]. Mr. Venables! This is an honour.

VENABLES. How are you, Shand?

JOHN. Sit down, sit down. [Becoming himself again.] I can guess what
you have come about.

VENABLES. Ah, you Scotsmen.

JOHN. Of course I know I'm harassing the Government a good deal--

VENABLES [blandly]. Not at all, Shand. The Government are very
pleased.

JOHN. You don't expect me to believe that?

VENABLES. I called here to give you the proof of it. You may know
that we are to have a big meeting at Leeds on the 24th, when two
Ministers are to speak. There is room for a third speaker, and I am
authorised to offer that place to you.

JOHN. To me!

VENABLES. Yes.

JOHN [swelling]. It would be--the Government taking me up.

VENABLES. Don't make too much of it; it would be an acknowledgment
that they look upon you as one of their likely young men.

MAGGIE. John!

JOHN [not found wanting in a trying hour]. It's a bribe. You are
offering me this on condition that I don't make my speech. How can
you think so meanly of me as to believe that I would play the women's
cause false for the sake of my own advancement. I refuse your bribe.

VENABLES [liking him for the first time]. Good. But you are wrong.
There are no conditions, and we want you to make your speech. Now do
you accept?

JOHN [still suspicious]. If you make me the same offer after you have
read it. I insist on your reading it first.

VENABLES [sighing]. By all means.

[MAGGIE is in an agony as she sees JOHN hand the speech to his
leader. On the other hand, the COMTESSE thrills.]

But I assure you we look on the speech as a small matter. The
important thing is your intention of going to a division; and we
agree to that also.

JOHN [losing his head]. What's that?

VENABLES. Yes, we agree.

JOHN. But--but--why, you have been threatening to excommunicate me if
I dared.

VENABLES. All done to test you, Shand.

JOHN. To test me?

VENABLES. We know that a division on your Bill can have no serious
significance; we shall see to that. And so the test was to be whether
you had the pluck to divide the House. Had you been intending to talk
big in this speech, and then hedge, through fear of the Government,
they would have had no further use for you.

JOHN [heavily]. I understand. [But there is one thing he cannot
understand, which is, why VENABLES should be so sure that he is not
to hedge.]

VENABLES [turning over the pages carelessly]. Any of your good things
in this, Shand?

JOHN [whose one desire is to get the pages back]. No, I--no--it isn't
necessary you should read it now.

VENABLES [from politeness only]. Merely for my own pleasure. I shall
look through it this evening. [He rolls up the speech to put it in
his pocket. JOHN turns despairingly to MAGGIE, though well aware that
no help can come from her.]

MAGGIE. That's the only copy there is, John. [To VENABLES] Let me
make a fresh one, and send it to you in an hour or two.

VENABLES [good-naturedly]. I could not put you to that trouble, Mrs.
Shand. I will take good care of it.

MAGGIE. If anything were to happen to you on the way home, wouldn't
whatever is in your pocket be considered to be the property of your
heirs?

VENABLES [laughing]. Now there is forethought! Shand, I think that
after that--! [He returns the speech to JOHN, whose hand swallows it
greedily.] She is Scotch too, Comtesse.

COMTESSE [delighted]. Yes, she is Scotch too.

VENABLES. Though the only persons likely to do for me in the street,
Shand, are your ladies' committee. Ever since they took the horse out
of my brougham, I can scent them a mile away.

COMTESSE. A mile? Charles, peep in there.

[He softly turns the handle of the dining-room door, and realises
that his scent is not so good as he had thought it. He bids his
hostess and the COMTESSE good-bye in a burlesque whisper and tiptoes
off to safer places. JOHN having gone out with him, MAGGIE can no
longer avoid the COMTESSE's reproachful eye. That much injured lady
advances upon her with accusing finger.]

COMTESSE. So, madam!

[MAGGIE is prepared for her.]

MAGGIE. I don't know what you mean.

COMTESSE. Yes, you do. I mean that there IS some one who 'helps' our
Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE. There's not.

COMTESSE. And it IS a woman, and it's you.

MAGGIE. I help in the little things.

COMTESSE. The little things! You are the Pin he picked up and that is
to make his fortune. And now what I want to know is whether your John
is aware that you help at all.

[JOHN returns, and at once provides the answer.]

JOHN. Maggie, Comtesse, I've done it again!

MAGGIE. I'm so glad, John.

[The COMTESSE is in an ecstasy.]

COMTESSE. And all because you were not to hedge, Mr. Shand.

[His appeal to her with the wistfulness of a schoolboy makes him
rather attractive.]

JOHN. You won't tell on me, Comtesse! [He thinks it out.] They had
just guessed I would be firm because they know I'm a strong man. You
little saw, Maggie, what a good turn you were doing me when you said
you wanted to make another copy of the speech.

[She is dense.]

MAGGIE. How, John?

JOHN. Because now I can alter the end.

[She is enlightened.]

MAGGIE. So you can!

JOHN. Here's another lucky thing, Maggie: I hadn't told the ladies'
committee that I was to hedge, and so they need never know. Comtesse,
I tell you there's a little cherub who sits up aloft and looks after
the career of John Shand.

[The COMTESSE looks not aloft but toward the chair at present
occupied by MAGGIE.]

COMTESSE. Where does she sit, Mr. Shand?

[He knows that women are not well read.]

JOHN. It's just a figure of speech.

[He returns airily to his committee room; and now again you may hear
the click of MAGGIE's needles. They no longer annoy the COMTESSE; she
is setting them to music.]

COMTESSE. It is not down here she sits, Mrs. Shand, knitting a
stocking.

MAGGIE. No, it isn't.

COMTESSE. And when I came in I gave him credit for everything; even
for the prettiness of the room!

MAGGIE. He has beautiful taste.

COMTESSE. Good-bye, Scotchy. 

MAGGIE. Good-bye, Comtesse, and thank you for coming.

COMTESSE. Good-bye--Miss Pin.

[MAGGIE rings genteelly.]

MAGGIE. Good-bye.

[The COMTESSE is now lost in admiration of her.]

COMTESSE. You divine little wife. He can't be worthy of it, no man
could be worthy of it. Why do you do it?

[MAGGIE shivers a little.]

MAGGIE. He loves to think he does it all himself; that's the way of
men. I'm six years older than he is. I'm plain, and I have no charm.
I shouldn't have let him marry me. I'm trying to make up for it.

[The COMTESSE kisses her and goes away. MAGGIE, somewhat foolishly,
resumes her knitting.]

[Some days later this same room is listening--with the same
inattention--to the outpouring of JOHN SHAND's love for the lady of
the hiccoughs. We arrive--by arrangement--rather late; and thus we
miss some of the most delightful of the pangs.

One can see that these two are playing no game, or, if they are, that
they little know it. The wonders of the world [so strange are the
instruments chosen by Love] have been revealed to JOHN in hiccoughs;
he shakes in SYBIL's presence; never were more swimming eyes; he who
has been of a wooden face till now, with ways to match, has gone on
flame like a piece of paper; emotion is in flood in him. We may be
almost fond of JOHN for being so worshipful of love. Much has come to
him that we had almost despaired of his acquiring, including nearly
all the divine attributes except that sense of humour. The beautiful
SYBIL has always possessed but little of it also, and what she had
has been struck from her by Cupid's flail. Naked of the saving grace,
they face each other in awful rapture.]

JOHN. In a room, Sybil, I go to you as a cold man to a fire. You fill
me like a peal of bells in an empty house.

[She is being brutally treated by the dear impediment, for which
hiccough is such an inadequate name that even to spell it is an
abomination though a sign of ability. How to describe a sound that is
noiseless? Let us put it thus, that when SYBIL wants to say something
very much there are little obstacles in her way; she falters, falls
perhaps once, and then is over, the while her appealing orbs beg you
not to be angry with her. We may express those sweet pauses in
precious dots, which some clever person can afterwards string
together and make a pearl necklace of them.]

SYBIL. I should not ... let you say it, ... but ... you ... say it so
beautifully.

JOHN. You must have guessed.

SYBIL. I dreamed ... I feared ... but you were ... Scotch, and I
didn't know what to think.

JOHN. Do you know what first attracted me to you, Sybil? It was your
insolence. I thought, 'I'll break her insolence for her.'

SYBIL. And I thought... 'I'll break his str...ength!'

JOHN. And now your cooing voice plays round me; the softness of you,
Sybil, in your pretty clothes makes me think of young birds. [The
impediment is now insurmountable; she has to swim for it, she swims
toward him.] It is you who inspire my work.

[He thrills to find that she can be touched without breaking.]

SYBIL. I am so glad... so proud...

JOHN. And others know it, Sybil, as well as I. Only yesterday the
Comtesse said to me, 'No man could get on so fast unaided. Cherchez
la femme, Mr. Shand.'

SYBIL. Auntie said that?

JOHN. I said 'Find her yourself, Comtesse.'

SYBIL. And she?

JOHN. She said 'I have found her,' and I said in my blunt way, 'You
mean Lady Sybil,' and she went away laughing.

SYBIL. Laughing?

JOHN. I seem to amuse the woman.

[Sybil grows sad.]

SYBIL. If Mrs. Shand--It is so cruel to her. Whom did you say she had
gone to the station to meet?

JOHN. Her father and brothers.

SYBIL. It is so cruel to them. We must think no more of this. It is
mad... ness.

JOHN. It's fate. Sybil, let us declare our love openly.

SYBIL. You can't ask that, now in the first moment that you tell me
of it.

JOHN. The one thing I won't do even for you is to live a life of
underhand.

SYBIL. The... blow to her.

JOHN. Yes. But at least she has always known that I never loved her.

SYBIL. It is asking me to give... up everything, every one, for you.

JOHN. It's too much.

[JOHN is humble at last.]

SYBIL. To a woman who truly loves, even that is not too much. Oh! it
is not I who matter--it is you.

JOHN. My dear, my dear.

SYBIL. So gladly would I do it to save you; but, oh, if it were to
bring you down!

JOHN. Nothing can keep me down if I have you to help me.

SYBIL. I am dazed, John, I...

JOHN. My love, my love.

SYBIL. I... oh... here...

JOHN. Be brave, Sybil, be brave.

SYBIL. ..........

[In this bewilderment of pearls she melts into his arms. MAGGIE
happens to open the door just then; but neither fond heart hears
her.]

JOHN. I can't walk along the streets, Sybil, without looking in all
the shop windows for what I think would become you best. [As
awkwardly as though his heart still beat against corduroy, he takes
from his pocket a pendant and its chain. He is shy, and she drops
pearls over the beauty of the ruby which is its only stone.] It is a
drop of my blood, Sybil.

[Her lovely neck is outstretched, and he puts the chain round it.
MAGGIE withdraws as silently as she had come; but perhaps the door
whispered 'd--n' as it closed, for SYBIL wakes out of Paradise.]

SYBIL. I thought---Did the door shut?

JOHN. It was shut already.

[Perhaps it is only that SYBIL is bewildered to find herself once
again in a world that has doors.]

SYBIL. It seemed to me---

JOHN. There was nothing. But I think I hear voices; they may have
arrived.

[Some pretty instinct makes SYBIL go farther from him. MAGGIE kindly
gives her time for this by speaking before opening the door.]

MAGGIE. That will do perfectly, David. The maid knows where to put
them. [She comes in.] They've come, John; they WOULD help with the
luggage. [JOHN goes out. MAGGIE is agreeably surprised to find a
visitor.] How do you do, Lady Sybil? This is nice of you.

SYBIL. I was so sorry not to find you in, Mrs. Shand.

[The impediment has run away. It is only for those who love it.]

MAGGIE. Thank you. You'll sit down?

SYBIL. I think not; your relatives---

MAGGIE. They will be so proud to see that you are my friend.

[If MAGGIE were less simple her guest would feel more comfortable.
She tries to make conversation.]

SYBIL. It is their first visit to London?

[Instead of relieving her anxiety on this point, MAGGIE has a long
look at the gorgeous armful.]

MAGGIE. I'm glad you are so beautiful, Lady Sybil.

[The beautiful one is somehow not flattered. She pursues her
investigations with growing uneasiness.]

SYBIL. One of them is married now, isn't he? [Still there is no
answer; MAGGIE continues looking at her, and shivers slightly.] Have
they travelled from Scotland to-day? Mrs. Shand, why do you look at
me so? The door did open! [MAGGIE nods.] What are you to do?

MAGGIE. That would be telling. Sit down, my pretty.

[As SYBIL subsides into what the Wylies with one glance would call
the best chair, MAGGIE's men-folk are brought in by JOHN, all
carrying silk hats and looking very active after their long rest in
the train. They are gazing about them. They would like this lady,
they would like JOHN, they would even like MAGGIE to go away for a
little and leave them to examine the room. Is that linen on the
walls, for instance, or just paper? Is the carpet as thick as it
feels, or is there brown paper beneath it? Had MAGGIE got anything
off that bookcase on account of the worm-hole? DAVID even discovers
that we were simpletons when we said there was nothing in the room
that pretended to be what it was not. He taps the marble mantelpiece,
and is favourably impressed by the tinny sound.]

DAVID. Very fine imitation. It's a capital house, Maggie.

MAGGIE. I'm so glad you like it. Do you know one another? This is my
father and my brothers, Lady Sybil.

[The lovely form inclines towards them. ALICK and DAVID remain firm
on their legs, but JAMES totters.]

JAMES. A ladyship! Well done, Maggie.

ALICK [sharply]. James! I remember you, my lady.

MAGGIE. Sit down, father. This is the study.

[JAMES wanders round it inquisitively until called to order.]

SYBIL. You must be tired after your long journey.

DAVID [drawing the portraits of himself and partners in one lightning
sketch]. Tired, your ladyship? We sat on cushioned seats the whole
way.

JAMES [looking about him for the chair you sit on]. Every seat in
this room is cushioned.

MAGGIE. You may say all my life is cushioned now, James, by this dear
man of mine.

[She gives JOHN'S shoulder a loving pressure, which SYBIL feels is a
telegraphic communication to herself in a cypher that she cannot
read. ALICK and the BROTHERS bask in the evidence of MAGGIE's
happiness.]

JOHN [uncomfortably]. And is Elizabeth hearty, James?

JAMES [looking down his nose in the manner proper to young husbands
when addressed about their wives]. She's very well, I thank you
kindly.

MAGGIE. James is a married man now, Lady Sybil.

[SYBIL murmurs her congratulations.]

JAMES. I thank you kindly. [Courageously] Yes, I'm married. [He looks
at DAVID and ALICK to see if they are smiling; and they are.] It
wasn't a case of being catched; it was entirely of my own free will.
[He looks again; and the mean fellows are smiling still.] Is your
ladyship married?

SYBIL. Alas! no.

DAVID. James! [Politely.] You will be yet, my lady.

[SYBIL indicates that he is kind indeed.]

JOHN. Perhaps they would like you to show them their rooms, Maggie?

DAVID. Fine would we like to see all the house as well as the
sleeping accommodation. But first--[He gives his father the look with
which chairmen call on the next speaker.]

ALICK. I take you, David. [He produces a paper parcel from a roomy
pocket.] It wasn't likely, Mr. Shand, that we should forget the day.

JOHN. The day?

DAVID. The second anniversary of your marriage. We came purposely for
the day.

JAMES [his fingers itching to take the parcel from his father]. It's
a lace shawl, Maggie, from the three of us, a pure Tobermory; you
would never dare wear it if you knew the cost.

[The shawl in its beauty is revealed, and MAGGIE hails it with little
cries of joy. She rushes at the donors and kisses each of them just
as if she were a pretty woman. They are much pleased and give
expression to their pleasure in a not very dissimilar manner.]

ALICK. Havers.

DAVID. Havers.

JAMES. Havers.

JOHN. It's a very fine shawl.

[He should not have spoken, for he has set JAMES'S volatile mind
working.]

JAMES. You may say so. What did you give her, Mr. Shand?

JOHN [suddenly deserted by God and man]. Me?

ALICK. Yes, yes, let's see it.

JOHN. Oh--I--

[He is not deserted by MAGGIE, but she can think of no way out.]

SYBIL [prompted by the impediment, which is in hiding, quite close].
Did he ... forget?

[There is more than a touch of malice in the question. It is a
challenge, and the Wylies as a family are almost too quick to accept
a challenge.]

MAGGIE [lifting the gage of battle]. John forget? Never! It's a
pendant, father.

[The impediment bolts. JOHN rises.]

ALICK. A pendant? One of those things on a chain?

[He grins, remembering how once, about sixty years ago, he and a lady
and a pendant--but we have no time for this.]

MAGGIE. Yes.

DAVID [who has felt the note of antagonism and is troubled]. You were
slow in speaking of it, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE [This is her fight.] He was shy, because he thought you might
blame him for extravagance.

DAVID [relieved]. Oh, that's it.

JAMES [licking his lips]. Let's see it.

MAGGIE [a daughter of the devil]. Where did you put it, John?

[JOHN's mouth opens but has nothing to contribute.]

SYBIL [the impediment has stolen back again]. Perhaps it has been ...
mislaid.

[The BROTHERS echo the word incredulously.]

MAGGIE. Not it. I can't think where we laid it down, John. It's not
on that table, is it, James? [The Wylies turn to look, and MAGGIE's
hand goes out to LADY SYBIL: JOHN SHAND, witness. It is a very
determined hand, and presently a pendant is placed in it.] Here it
is! [ALICK and the BROTHERS cluster round it, weigh it and appraise
it.]

ALICK. Preserve me. Is that stone real, Mr. Shand?

JOHN [who has begun to look his grimmest]. Yes.

MAGGIE [who is now ready, if he wishes it, to take him on too]. John
says it's a drop of his blood.

JOHN [wishing it]. And so it is.

DAVID. Well said, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE [scared]. And now, if you'll come with me, I think John has
something he wants to talk over with Lady Sybil. [Recovering and
taking him on.] Or would you prefer, John, to say it before us all?

SYBIL [gasping]. No!

JOHN [flinging back his head]. Yes, I prefer to say it before you
all.

MAGGIE [flinging back hers]. Then sit down again.

[The WYLIES wonderingly obey.]

SYBIL. Mr. Shand, Mr. Shand!--

JOHN. Maggie knows, and it was only for her I was troubled. Do you
think I'm afraid of them? [With mighty relief] Now we can be open.

DAVID [lowering]. What is it? What's wrong, John Shand?

JOHN [facing him squarely]. It was to Lady Sybil I gave the pendant,
and all my love with it. [Perhaps JAMES utters a cry, but the silence
of ALICK and DAVID is more terrible.]

SYBIL [whose voice is smaller than we had thought]. What are you to
do?

[It is to MAGGIE she is speaking.]

DAVID. She'll leave it for us to do.

JOHN. That's what I want.

[The lords of creation look at the ladies.]

MAGGIE [interpreting]. You and I are expected to retire, Lady Sybil,
while the men decide our fate. [SYBIL is ready to obey the law, but
MAGGIE remains seated.] Man's the oak, woman's the ivy. Which of us
is it that's to cling to you, John?

[With three stalwarts glaring at him, JOHN rather grandly takes
SYBIL'S hand. They are two against the world.]

SYBIL [a heroine]. I hesitated, but I am afraid no longer; whatever
he asks of me I will do.

[Evidently the first thing he asks of her is to await him in the
dining-room.]

It will mean surrendering everything for him. I am glad it means all
that. [She passes into the dining-room looking as pretty as a kiss.]

MAGGIE. So that settles it.

ALICK. I'm thinking that doesn't settle it.

DAVID. No, by God! [But his love for MAGGIE steadies him. There is
even a note of entreaty in his voice.] Have you nothing to say to
her, man?

JOHN. I have things to say to her, but not before you.

DAVID [sternly]. Go away, Maggie. Leave him to us.

JAMES [who thinks it is about time that he said something]. Yes,
leave him to us.

MAGGIE. No, David, I want to hear what is to become of me; I promise
not to take any side.

[And sitting by the fire she resumes her knitting. The four regard
her as on an evening at The Pans a good many years ago.]

DAVID [barking]. How long has this been going on?

JOHN. If you mean how long has that lady been the apple of my eye,
I'm not sure; but I never told her of it until today.

MAGGIE [thoughtfully and without dropping a stitch]. I think it
wasn't till about six months ago, John, that she began to be very
dear to you. At first you liked to bring in her name when talking to
me, so that I could tell you of any little things I might have heard
she was doing. But afterwards, as she became more and more to you,
you avoided mentioning her name.

JOHN [surprised]. Did you notice that?

MAGGIE [in her old-fashioned way]. Yes.

JOHN. I tried to be done with it for your sake. I've often had a sore
heart for you, Maggie.

JAMES. You're proving it!

MAGGIE. Yes, James, he had. I've often seen him looking at me very
sorrowfully of late because of what was in his mind; and many a
kindly little thing he has done for me that he didn't use to do.

JOHN. You noticed that too!

MAGGIE. Yes.

DAVID [controlling himself]. Well, we won't go into that; the thing
to be thankful for is that it's ended.

ALICK [who is looking very old]. Yes, yes, that's the great thing.

JOHN. All useless, sir, it's not ended; it's to go on.

DAVID. There's a devil in you, John Shand.

JOHN [who is an unhappy man just now]. I dare say there is. But do
you think he had a walk over, Mr. David?

JAMES. Man, I could knock you down!

MAGGIE. There's not one of you could knock John down.

DAVID [exasperated]. Quiet, Maggie. One would think you were taking
his part.

MAGGIE. Do you expect me to desert him at the very moment that he
needs me most?

DAVID. It's him that's deserting you.

JOHN. Yes, Maggie, that's what it is.

ALICK. Where's your marriage vow? And your church attendances?

JAMES [with terrible irony]. And your prize for moral philosophy?

JOHN [recklessly]. All gone whistling down the wind.

DAVID. I suppose you understand that you'll have to resign your seat.

JOHN [his underlip much in evidence]. There are hundreds of seats,
but there's only one John Shand.

MAGGIE [but we don't hear her]. That's how I like to hear him speak.

DAVID [the ablest person in the room]. Think, man, I'm old by you,
and for long I've had a pride in you. It will be beginning the world
again with more against you than there was eight years ago.

JOHN. I have a better head to begin it with than I had eight years
ago.

ALICK [hoping this will bite]. She'll have her own money, David!

JOHN. She's as poor as a mouse.

JAMES [thinking possibly of his Elizabeth's mother]. We'll go to her
friends, and tell them all. They'll stop it.

JOHN. She's of age.

JAMES. They'll take her far away.

JOHN. I'll follow, and tear her from them.

ALICK. Your career---

JOHN [to his credit]. To hell with my career. Do you think I don't
know I'm on the rocks? What can you, or you, or you, understand of
the passions of a man! I've fought, and I've given in. When a ship
founders, as I suppose I'm foundering, it's not a thing to yelp at.
Peace, all of you. [He strides into the dining-room, where we see him
at times pacing the floor.]

DAVID [to JAMES, who gives signs of a desire to take off his coat].
Let him be. We can't budge him. [With bitter wisdom] It's true what
he says, true at any rate about me. What do I know of the passions of
a man! I'm up against something I don't understand.

ALICK. It's something wicked.

DAVID. I dare say it is, but it's something big.

JAMES. It's that damned charm.

MAGGIE [still by the fire]. That's it. What was it that made you
fancy Elizabeth, James?

JAMES [sheepishly]. I can scarcely say.

MAGGIE. It was her charm.

DAVID. HER charm!

JAMES [pugnaciously]. Yes, HER charm.

MAGGIE. She had charm for James.

[This somehow breaks them up. MAGGIE goes from one to another with an
odd little smile flickering on her face.]

DAVID. Put on your things, Maggie, and we'll leave his house.

MAGGIE [patting his kind head]. Not me, David.

[This is a MAGGIE they have known but forgotten; all three brighten.]

DAVID. You haven't given in!

[The smile flickers and expires.]

MAGGIE. I want you all to go upstairs, and let me have my try now.

JAMES. Your try?

ALICK. Maggie, you put new life into me.

JAMES. And into me.

[DAVID says nothing; the way he grips her shoulder says it for him.]

MAGGIE. I'll save him, David, if I can.

DAVID. Does he deserve to be saved after the way he has treated you?

MAGGIE. You stupid David. What has that to do with it.

[When they have gone, JOHN comes to the door of the dining-room.
There is welling up in him a great pity for MAGGIE, but it has to
subside a little when he sees that the knitting is still in her hand.
No man likes to be so soon supplanted. SYBIL follows, and the two of
them gaze at the active needles.]

MAGGIE [perceiving that she has visitors]. Come in, John. Sit down,
Lady Sybil, and make yourself comfortable. I'm afraid we've put you
about.

[She is, after all, only a few years older than they and scarcely
looks her age; yet it must have been in some such way as this that
the little old woman who lived in a shoe addressed her numerous
progeny.]

JOHN. I'm mortal sorry, Maggie.

SYBIL [who would be more courageous if she could hold his hand]. And
I also.

MAGGIE [soothingly]. I'm sure you are. But as it can't be helped I
see no reason why we three shouldn't talk the matter over in a
practical way.

[SYBIL looks doubtful, but JOHN hangs on desperately to the word
practical.]

JOHN. If you could understand, Maggie, what an inspiration she is to
me and my work.

SYBIL. Indeed, Mrs. Shand, I think of nothing else.

MAGGIE. That's fine. That's as it should be.

SYBIL [talking too much]. Mrs. Shand, I think you are very kind to
take it so reasonably.

MAGGIE. That's the Scotch way. When were you thinking of leaving me,
John?

[Perhaps this is the Scotch way also; but SYBIL is English, and from
the manner in which she starts you would say that something has
fallen on her toes.]

JOHN [who has heard nothing fall]. I think, now that it has come to a
breach, the sooner the better. [His tone becomes that of JAMES when
asked after the health of his wife.] When it is convenient to you,
Maggie.

MAGGIE [making a rapid calculation]. It couldn't well be before
Wednesday. That's the day the laundry comes home.

[SYBIL has to draw in her toes again.]

JOHN. And it's the day the House rises. [Stifling a groan] It may be
my last appearance in the House.

SYBIL [her arms yearning for him]. No, no, please don't say that.

MAGGIE [surveying him sympathetically]. You love the House, don't
you, John, next to her? It's a pity you can't wait till after your
speech at Leeds. Mr. Venables won't let you speak at Leeds, I fear,
if you leave me.

JOHN. What a chance it would have been. But let it go.

MAGGIE. The meeting is in less than a month. Could you not make it
such a speech that they would be very loth to lose you?

JOHN [swelling]. That's what was in my mind.

SYBIL [with noble confidence]. And he could have done it.

MAGGIE. Then we've come to something practical.

JOHN [exercising his imagination with powerful effect]. No, it
wouldn't be fair to you if I was to stay on now.

MAGGIE. Do you think I'll let myself be considered when your career
is at stake. A month will soon pass for me; I'll have a lot of
packing to do.

JOHN. It's noble of you, but I don't deserve it, and I can't take it
from you.

MAGGIE. Now's the time, Lady Sybil, for you to have one of your
inspiring ideas.

SYBIL [ever ready]. Yes, yes--but what?

[It is odd that they should both turn to MAGGIE at this moment.]

MAGGIE [who has already been saying it to herself]. What do you think
of this: I can stay on here with my father and brothers; and you,
John, can go away somewhere and devote yourself to your speech?

SYBIL. Yes.

JOHN. That might be. [Considerately] Away from both of you. Where
could I go?

SYBIL [ever ready]. Where?

MAGGIE. I know.

[She has called up a number on the telephone before they have time to
check her.]

JOHN [on his dignity]. Don't be in such a hurry, Maggie.

MAGGIE. Is this Lamb's Hotel? Put me on to the Comtesse de la Briere,
please.

SYBIL [with a sinking]. What do you want with Auntie?

MAGGIE. Her cottage in the country would be the very place. She
invited John and me.

JOHN. Yes, but--

MAGGIE [arguing]. And Mr. Venables is to be there. Think of the
impression you could make on HIM, seeing him daily for three weeks.

JOHN. There's something in that.

MAGGIE. Is it you, Comtesse? I'm Maggie Shand.

SYBIL. You are not to tell her that--?

MAGGIE. No. [To the COMTESSE] Oh, I'm very well, never was better.
Yes, yes; you see I can't, because my folk have never been in London
before, and I must take them about and show them the sights. But John
could come to you alone; why not?

JOHN [with proper pride]. If she's not keen to have me, I won't go.

MAGGIE. She's very keen. Comtesse, I could come for a day by and by
to see how you are getting on. Yes--yes--certainly. [To JOHN] She
says she'll be delighted.

JOHN [thoughtfully]. You're not doing this, Maggie, thinking that my
being absent from Sybil for a few weeks can make any difference? Of
course it's natural you should want us to keep apart, but--

MAGGIE [grimly]. I'm founding no hope on keeping you apart, John.

JOHN. It's what other wives would do.

MAGGIE. I promised to be different.

JOHN [his position as a strong man assured]. Then tell her I accept.
[He wanders back into the dining-room.]

SYBIL. I think--[she is not sure what she thinks]--I think you are
very wonderful.

MAGGIE. Was that John calling to you?

SYBIL. Was it? [She is glad to join him in the dining-room.]

MAGGIE. Comtesse, hold the line a minute. [She is alone, and she has
nearly reached the end of her self-control. She shakes emotionally
and utters painful little cries; there is something she wants to do,
and she is loth to do it. But she does it.] Are you there, Comtesse?
There's one other thing, dear Comtesse; I want you to invite Lady
Sybil also; yes, for the whole time that John is there. No, I'm not
mad; as a great favour to me; yes, I have a very particular reason,
but I won't tell you what it is; oh, call me Scotchy as much as you
like, but consent; do, do, do. Thank you, thank you, good-bye.

[She has control of herself now, and is determined not to let it slip
from her again. When they reappear the stubborn one is writing a
letter.]

JOHN. I thought I heard the telephone again.

MAGGIE [looking up from her labours]. It was the Comtesse; she says
she's to invite Lady Sybil to the cottage at the same time.

SYBIL. Me!

JOHN. To invite Sybil? Then of course I won't go, Maggie.

MAGGIE [wondering seemingly at these niceties]. What does it matter?
Is anything to be considered except the speech? [It has been admitted
that she was a little devil.] And, with Sybil on the spot, John, to
help you and inspire you, what a speech it will be!

JOHN [carried away]. Maggie, you really are a very generous woman.

SYBIL [convinced at last]. She is indeed.

JOHN. And you're queer too. How many women in the circumstances would
sit down to write a letter?

MAGGIE. It's a letter to you, John.

JOHN. To me?

MAGGIE. I'll give it to you when it's finished, but I ask you not to
open it till your visit to the Comtesse ends.

JOHN. What is it about?

MAGGIE. It's practical.

SYBIL [rather faintly]. Practical? [She has heard the word so
frequently to-day that it is beginning to have a Scotch sound. She
feels she ought to like MAGGIE, but that she would like her better if
they were farther apart. She indicates that the doctors are troubled
about her heart, and murmuring her adieux she goes. JOHN, who is
accompanying her, pauses at the door.]

JOHN [with a queer sort of admiration for his wife]. Maggie, I wish I
was fond of you.

MAGGIE [heartily]. I wish you were, John.

[He goes, and she resumes her letter. The stocking is lying at hand,
and she pushes it to the floor. She is done for a time with
knitting.]




ACT IV

[Man's most pleasant invention is the lawn-mower. All the birds know
this, and that is why, when it is at rest, there is always at least
one of them sitting on the handle with his head cocked, wondering how
the delicious whirring sound is made. When they find out, they will
change their note. As it is, you must sometimes have thought that you
heard the mower very early in the morning, and perhaps you peeped in
neglige from your lattice window to see who was up so early. It was
really the birds trying to get the note.

On this broiling morning, however, we are at noon, and whoever looks
will see that the whirring is done by Mr. Venables. He is in a linen
suit with the coat discarded (the bird is sitting on it), and he
comes and goes across the Comtesse's lawns, pleasantly mopping his
face. We see him through a crooked bowed window generously open,
roses intruding into it as if to prevent its ever being closed at
night; there are other roses in such armfuls on the tables that one
could not easily say where the room ends and the garden begins.

In the Comtesse's pretty comic drawing-room (for she likes the comic
touch when she is in England) sits John Shand with his hostess, on
chairs at a great distance from each other. No linen garments for
John, nor flannels, nor even knickerbockers; he envies the English
way of dressing for trees and lawns, but is too Scotch to be able to
imitate it; he wears tweeds, just as he would do in his native
country where they would be in kilts. Like many another Scot, the
first time he ever saw a kilt was on a Sassenach; indeed kilts were
perhaps invented, like golf, to draw the English north. John is doing
nothing, which again is not a Scotch accomplishment, and he looks
rather miserable and dour. The Comtesse is already at her Patience
cards, and occasionally she smiles on him as if not displeased with
his long silence. At last she speaks:]

COMTESSE. I feel it rather a shame to detain you here on such a
lovely day, Mr. Shand, entertaining an old woman.

JOHN. I don't pretend to think I'm entertaining you, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. But you ARE, you know.

JOHN. I would be pleased to be told how?

[She shrugs her impertinent shoulders, and presently there is another
heavy sigh from JOHN.]

COMTESSE. Again! Why do not you go out on the river?

JOHN. Yes, I can do that. [He rises.]

COMTESSE. And take Sybil with you. [He sits again.] No?

JOHN. I have been on the river with her twenty times.

COMTESSE. Then take her for a long walk through the Fairloe woods.

JOHN. We were there twice last week.

COMTESSE. There is a romantically damp little arbour at the end of
what the villagers call the Lovers' Lane.

JOHN. One can't go there every day. I see nothing to laugh at.

COMTESSE. Did I laugh? I must have been translating the situation
into French.

[Perhaps the music of the lawn-mower is not to JOHN's mood, for he
betakes himself to another room. MR. VENABLES pauses in his labours
to greet a lady who has appeared on the lawn, and who is MAGGIE. She
is as neat as if she were one of the army of typists [who are quite
the nicest kind of women], and carries a little bag. She comes in
through the window, and puts her hands over the COMTESSE's eyes.]

COMTESSE. They are a strong pair of hands, at any rate.

MAGGIE. And not very white, and biggish for my size. Now guess.

[The COMTESSE guesses, and takes both the hands in hers as if she
valued them. She pulls off MAGGIE's hat as if to prevent her flying
away.]

COMTESSE. Dear abominable one, not to let me know you were coming.

MAGGIE. It is just a surprise visit, Comtesse. I walked up from the
station. [For a moment MAGGIE seems to have borrowed SYBIL'S
impediment.] How is--everybody?

COMTESSE. He is quite well. But, my child, he seems to me to be a
most unhappy man.

[This sad news does not seem to make a most unhappy woman of the
child. The COMTESSE is puzzled, as she knows nothing of the situation
save what she has discovered for herself.]

Why should that please you, O heartless one?

MAGGIE. I won't tell you.

COMTESSE. I could take you and shake you, Maggie. Here have I put my
house at your disposal for so many days for some sly Scotch purpose,
and you will not tell me what it is.

MAGGIE. No.

COMTESSE. Very well, then, but I have what you call a nasty one for
you. [The COMTESSE lures MR. VENABLES into the room by holding up
what might be a foaming glass of lemon squash.] Alas, Charles, it is
but a flower vase. I want you to tell Mrs. Shand what you think of
her husband's speech.

[MR. VENABLES gives his hostess a reproachful look.]

VENABLES. Eh--ah--Shand will prefer to do that himself. I promised
the gardener--I must not disappoint him--excuse me--

COMTESSE. You must tell her, Charles.

MAGGIE. Please, Mr. Venables, I should like to know.

[He sits down with a sigh and obeys.]

VENABLES. Your husband has been writing the speech here, and by his
own wish he read it to me three days ago. The occasion is to be an
important one; and, well, there are a dozen young men in the party at
present, all capable of filling a certain small ministerial post. [He
looks longingly at the mower, but it sends no message to his aid.]
And as he is one of them I was anxious that he should show in this
speech of what he is capable.

MAGGIE. And hasn't he?

[Not for the first time MR. VENABLES wishes that he was not in
politics.]

VENABLES. I am afraid he has.

COMTESSE. What is wrong with the speech, Charles?

VENABLES. Nothing--and he can still deliver it. It is a powerful,
well-thought-out piece of work, such as only a very able man could
produce. But it has no SPECIAL QUALITY of its own--none of the little
touches that used to make an old stager like myself want to pat Shand
on the shoulder. [The COMTESSE's mouth twitches, but MAGGIE declines
to notice it.] He pounds on manfully enough, but, if I may say so,
with a wooden leg. It is as good, I dare say, as the rest of them
could have done; but they start with such inherited advantages, Mrs.
Shand, that he had to do better.

MAGGIE. Yes, I can understand that.

VENABLES. I am sorry, Mrs. Shand, for he interested me. His career
has set me wondering whether if _I_ had begun as a railway porter I
might not still be calling out, 'By your leave.'

[MAGGIE thinks it probable but not important]

MAGGIE. Mr. Venables, now that I think of it, surely John wrote to me
that you were dissatisfied with his first speech, and that he was
writing another.

[The COMTESSE's eyes open very wide indeed.]

VENABLES. I have heard nothing of that, Mrs. Shand. [He shakes his
wise head.] And in any case, I am afraid--[He still hears the wooden
leg.]

MAGGIE. But you said yourself that his second thoughts were sometimes
such an improvement on the first.

[The COMTESSE comes to the help of the baggage.]

COMTESSE. I remember you saying that, Charles.

VENABLES. Yes, that has struck me. [Politely] Well, if he has
anything to show me--In the meantime--

[He regains the lawn, like one glad to escape attendance at JOHN'S
obsequies. The COMTESSE is brought back to speech by the sound of the
mower--nothing wooden in it.]

COMTESSE. What are you up to now, Miss Pin? You know as well as I do
that there is no such speech.

[MAGGIE's mouth tightens.]

MAGGIE. I do not.

COMTESSE. It is a duel, is it, my friend?

[The COMTESSE rings the bell and MAGGIE's guilty mind is agitated.]

MAGGIE. What are you ringing for?

COMTESSE. As the challenged one, Miss Pin, I have the choice of
weapons. I am going to send for your husband to ask him if he has
written such a speech. After which, I suppose, you will ask me to
leave you while you and he write it together.

[MAGGIE wrings her hands.]

MAGGIE. You are wrong, Comtesse; but please don't do that.

COMTESSE. You but make me more curious, and my doctor says that I
must be told everything. [The COMTESSE assumes the pose of her sex in
melodrama.] Put your cards on the table, Maggie Shand, or--[She
indicates that she always pinks her man. MAGGIE dolefully produces a
roll of paper from her bag.] What precisely is that?

[The reply is little more than a squeak.]

MAGGIE. John's speech.

COMTESSE. You have written it yourself!

[MAGGIE is naturally indignant.]

MAGGIE. It's typed.

COMTESSE. You guessed that the speech he wrote unaided would not
satisfy, and you prepared this to take its place!

MAGGIE. Not at all, Comtesse. It is the draft of his speech that he
left at home. That's all.

COMTESSE. With a few trivial alterations by yourself, I swear. Can
you deny it?

[No wonder that MAGGIE is outraged. She replaces JOHN's speech in the
bag with becoming hauteur.]

MAGGIE. Comtesse, these insinuations are unworthy of you. May I ask
where is my husband?

[The COMTESSE drops her a curtsey.]

COMTESSE. I believe your Haughtiness may find him in the Dutch
garden. Oh, I see through you. You are not to show him your speech.
But you are to get him to write another one, and somehow all your
additions will be in it. Think not, creature, that you can deceive
one so old in iniquity as the Comtesse de la Briere.

[There can be but one reply from a good wife to such a charge, and at
once the COMTESSE is left alone with her shame. Anon a footman
appears. You know how they come and go.]

FOOTMAN. You rang, my lady?

COMTESSE. Did I? Ah, yes, but why? [He is but lately from the
ploughshare and cannot help her. In this quandary her eyes alight
upon the bag. She is unfortunately too abandoned to feel her shame;
she still thinks that she has the choice of weapons. She takes the
speech from the bag and bestows it on her servitor.] Take this to Mr.
Venables, please, and say it is from Mr. Shand. [THOMAS--but in the
end we shall probably call him JOHN--departs with the dangerous
papers; and when MAGGIE returns she finds that the COMTESSE is once
more engaged in her interrupted game of Patience.] You did not find
him?

[All the bravery has dropped from MAGGIE's face.]

MAGGIE. I didn't see him, but I heard him. SHE is with him. I think
they are coming here.

[The COMTESSE is suddenly kind again.]

COMTESSE. Sybil? Shall I get rid of her?

MAGGIE. No, I want her to be here, too. Now I shall know.

[The COMTESSE twists the little thing round.]

COMTESSE. Know what?

MAGGIE. As soon as I look into his face I shall know.

[A delicious scent ushers in the fair SYBIL, who is as sweet as a
milking stool. She greets MRS. SHAND with some alarm.]

MAGGIE. How do you do, Lady Sybil? How pretty you look in that frock.
[SYBIL rustles uncomfortably.] You are a feast to the eye.

SYBIL. Please, I wish you would not.

[Shall we describe SYBIL'S frock, in which she looks like a great
strawberry that knows it ought to be plucked; or would it be easier
to watch the coming of JOHN? Let us watch JOHN.]

JOHN. You, Maggie! You never wrote that you were coming.

[No, let us watch MAGGIE. As soon as she looked into his face she was
to know something of importance.]

MAGGIE [not dissatisfied with what she sees]. No, John, it's a
surprise visit. I just ran down to say good-bye.

[At this his face falls, which does not seem to pain her.]

SYBIL [foreseeing another horrible Scotch scene]. To say good-bye?

COMTESSE [thrilling with expectation]. To whom, Maggie?

SYBIL [deserted by the impediment, which is probably playing with
rough boys in the Lovers' Lane]. Auntie, do leave us, won't you?

COMTESSE. Not I. It is becoming far too interesting.

MAGGIE. I suppose there's no reason the Comtesse shouldn't be told,
as she will know so soon at any rate?

JOHN. That's so. [SYBIL sees with discomfort that he is to be
practical also.]

MAGGIE. It's so simple. You see, Comtesse, John and Lady Sybil have
fallen in love with one another, and they are to go off as soon as
the meeting at Leeds has taken place.

[The COMTESSE's breast is too suddenly introduced to Caledonia and
its varied charms.]

COMTESSE. Mon Dieu!

MAGGIE. I think that's putting it correctly, John.

JOHN. In a sense. But I'm not to attend the meeting at Leeds. My
speech doesn't find favour. [With a strange humility] There's
something wrong with it.

COMTESSE. I never expected to hear you say that, Mr. Shand.

JOHN [wondering also]. I never expected it myself. I meant to make it
the speech of my career. But somehow my hand seems to have lost its
cunning.

COMTESSE. And you don't know how?

JOHN. It's inexplicable. My brain was never clearer.

COMTESSE. You might have helped him, Sybil.

SYBIL [quite sulkily]. I did.

COMTESSE. But I thought she was such an inspiration to you, Mr.
Shand.

JOHN [going bravely to SYBIL'S side]. She slaved at it with me.

COMTESSE. Strange. [Wickedly becoming practical also] So now there is
nothing to detain you. Shall I send for a fly, Sybil?

SYBIL [with a cry of the heart]. Auntie, do leave us.

COMTESSE. I can understand your impatience to be gone, Mr. Shand.

JOHN [heavily]. I promised Maggie to wait till the 24th, and I'm a
man of my word.

MAGGIE. But I give you back your word, John. You can go now.

[JOHN looks at SYBIL, and SYBIL looks at JOHN, and the impediment
arrives in time to take a peep at both of them.]

SYBIL [groping for the practical, to which we must all come in the
end]. He must make satisfactory arrangements about you first. I
insist on that.

MAGGIE [with no more imagination than a hen]. Thank you, Lady Sybil,
but I have made all my arrangements.

JOHN [stung]. Maggie, that was my part.

MAGGIE. You see, my brothers feel they can't be away from their
business any longer; and so, if it would be convenient to you, John,
I could travel north with them by the night train on Wednesday.

SYBIL. I--I----The way you put things---!

JOHN. This is just the 21st.

MAGGIE. My things are all packed. I think you'll find the house in
good order, Lady Sybil. I have had the vacuum cleaners in. I'll give
you the keys of the linen and the silver plate; I have them in that
bag. The carpet on the upper landing is a good deal frayed, but---

SYBIL. Please, I don't want to hear any more.

MAGGIE. The ceiling of the dining-room would be the better of a new
lick of paint---

SYBIL [stamping her foot, small fours]. Can't you stop her?

JOHN [soothingly]. She's meaning well. Maggie, I know it's natural to
you to value those things, because your outlook on life is bounded by
them; but all this jars on me.

MAGGIE. Does it?

JOHN. Why should you be so ready to go?

MAGGIE. I promised not to stand in your way.

JOHN [stoutly]. You needn't be in such a hurry. There are three days
to run yet. [The French are so different from us that we shall
probably never be able to understand why the COMTESSE laughed aloud
here.] It's just a joke to the Comtesse.

COMTESSE. It seems to be no joke to you, Mr. Shand. Sybil, my pet,
are you to let him off?

SYBIL [flashing]. Let him off? If he wishes it. Do you?

JOHN [manfully]. I want it to go on. [Something seems to have caught
in his throat: perhaps it is the impediment trying a temporary home.]
It's the one wish of my heart. If you come with me, Sybil, I'll do
all in a man's power to make you never regret it.

[Triumph of the Vere de Veres.]

MAGGIE [bringing them back to earth with a dump]. And I can make my
arrangements for Wednesday?

SYBIL [seeking the COMTESSE's protection]. No, you can't. Auntie, I
am not going on with this. I'm very sorry for you, John, but I see
now--I couldn't face it---

[She can't face anything at this moment except the sofa pillows.]

COMTESSE [noticing JOHN'S big sigh of relief]. So THAT is all right,
Mr. Shand!

MAGGIE. Don't you love her any more, John? Be practical.

SYBIL [to the pillows]. At any rate I have tired of him. Oh, best to
tell the horrid truth. I am ashamed of myself. I have been crying my
eyes out over it--I thought I was such a different kind of woman. But
I am weary of him. I think him--oh, so dull.

JOHN [his face lighting up]. Are you sure that is how you have come
to think of me?

SYBIL. I'm sorry; [with all her soul] but yes--yes--yes.

JOHN. By God, it's more than I deserve.

COMTESSE. Congratulations to you both.

[SYBIL runs away; and in the fulness of time she married successfully
in cloth of silver, which was afterwards turned into a bed-spread.]

MAGGIE. You haven't read my letter yet, John, have you?

JOHN. No.

COMTESSE [imploringly]. May I know to what darling letter you refer?

MAGGIE. It's a letter I wrote to him before he left London. I gave it
to him closed, not to be opened until his time here was ended.

JOHN [as his hand strays to his pocket]. Am I to read it now?

MAGGIE. Not before her. Please go away, Comtesse.

COMTESSE. Every word you say makes me more determined to remain.

MAGGIE. It will hurt you, John. [Distressed] Don't read it; tear it
up.

JOHN. You make me very curious, Maggie. And yet I don't see what can
be in it.

COMTESSE. But you feel a little nervous? Give ME the dagger.

MAGGIE [quickly]. No. [But the COMTESSE has already got it.]

COMTESSE. May I? [She must have thought they said Yes, for she opens
the letter. She shares its contents with them.] 'Dearest John, It is
at my request that the Comtesse is having Lady Sybil at the cottage
at the same time as yourself.'

JOHN. What?

COMTESSE. Yes, she begged me to invite you together.

JOHN. But why?

MAGGIE. I promised you not to behave as other wives would do.

JOHN. It's not understandable.

COMTESSE. 'You may ask why I do this, John, and my reason is, I think
that after a few weeks of Lady Sybil, every day, and all day, you
will become sick to death of her. I am also giving her the chance to
help you and inspire you with your work, so that you may both learn
what her help and her inspiration amount to. Of course, if your love
is the great strong passion you think it, then those weeks will make
you love her more than ever and I can only say good-bye. But if, as I
suspect, you don't even now know what true love is, then by the next
time we meet, dear John, you will have had enough of her.--Your
affectionate wife, Maggie.' Oh, why was not Sybil present at the
reading of the will! And now, if you two will kindly excuse me, I
think I must go and get that poor sufferer the eau de Cologne.

JOHN. It's almost enough to make a man lose faith in himself.

COMTESSE. Oh, don't say that, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE [defending him]. You mustn't hurt him. If you haven't loved
deep and true, that's just because you have never met a woman yet,
John, capable of inspiring it.

COMTESSE [putting her hand on MAGGIE's shoulder]. Have you not, Mr.
Shand?

JOHN. I see what you mean. But Maggie wouldn't think better of me for
any false pretences. She knows my feelings for her now are neither
more nor less than what they have always been.

MAGGIE [who sees that he is looking at her as solemnly as a volume of
sermons printed by request]. I think no one could be fond of me that
can't laugh a little at me.

JOHN. How could that help?

COMTESSE [exasperated]. Mr. Shand, I give you up.

MAGGIE. I admire his honesty.

COMTESSE. Oh, I give you up also. Arcades ambo. Scotchies both.

JOHN [when she has gone]. But this letter, it's not like you. By
Gosh, Maggie, you're no fool.

[She beams at this, as any wife would.]

But how could I have made such a mistake? It's not like a strong man.
[Evidently he has an inspiration.]

MAGGIE. What is it?

JOHN [the inspiration]. AM I a strong man?

MAGGIE. You? Of course you are. And self-made. Has anybody ever
helped you in the smallest way?

JOHN [thinking it out again]. No, nobody.

MAGGIE. Not even Lady Sybil?

JOHN. I'm beginning to doubt it. It's very curious, though, Maggie,
that this speech should be disappointing.

MAGGIE. It's just that Mr. Venables hasn't the brains to see how good
it is.

JOHN. That must be it. [But he is too good a man to rest satisfied
with this.] No, Maggie, it's not. Somehow I seem to have lost my neat
way of saying things.

MAGGIE [almost cooing]. It will come back to you.

JOHN [forlorn]. If you knew how I've tried.

MAGGIE [cautiously]. Maybe if you were to try again; and I'll just
come and sit beside you, and knit. I think the click of the needles
sometimes put you in the mood.

JOHN. Hardly that; and yet many a Shandism have I knocked off while
you were sitting beside me knitting. I suppose it was the quietness.

MAGGIE. Very likely.

JOHN [with another inspiration]. Maggie!

MAGGIE [again]. What is it, John?

JOHN. What if it was you that put those queer ideas into my head!

MAGGIE. Me?

JOHN. Without your knowing it, I mean.

MAGGIE. But how?

JOHN. We used to talk bits over; and it may be that you dropped the
seed, so to speak.

MAGGIE. John, could it be this, that I sometimes had the idea in a
rough womanish sort of way and then you polished it up till it came
out a Shandism?

JOHN [slowly slapping his knee]. I believe you've hit it, Maggie: to
think that you may have been helping me all the time--and neither of
us knew it!

[He has so nearly reached a smile that no one can say what might have
happened within the next moment if the COMTESSE had not reappeared.]

COMTESSE. Mr. Venables wishes to see you, Mr. Shand.

JOHN [lost, stolen, or strayed a smile in the making]. Hum!

COMTESSE. He is coming now.

JOHN [grumpy]. Indeed!

COMTESSE [sweetly]. It is about your speech.

JOHN. He has said all he need say on that subject, and more.

COMTESSE [quaking a little]. I think it is about the second speech.

JOHN. What second speech?

[MAGGIE runs to her bag and opens it.]

MAGGIE [horrified]. Comtesse, you have given it to him!

COMTESSE [impudently]. Wasn't I meant to?

JOHN. What is it? What second speech?

MAGGIE. Cruel, cruel. [Willing to go on her knees] You had left the
first draft of your speech at home, John, and I brought it here with--
with a few little things I've added myself.

JOHN [a seven-footer]. What's that?

MAGGIE [four foot ten at most]. Just trifles--things I was to suggest
to you--while I was knitting--and then, if you liked any of them you
could have polished them--and turned them into something good. John,
John--and now she has shown it to Mr. Venables.

JOHN [thundering]. As my work, Comtesse?

[But the COMTESSE is not of the women who are afraid of thunder.]

MAGGIE. It is your work--nine-tenths of it.

JOHN [in the black cap]. You presumed, Maggie Shand! Very well, then,
here he comes, and now we'll see to what extent you've helped me.

VENABLES. My dear fellow. My dear Shand, I congratulate you. Give me
your hand.

JOHN. The speech?

VENABLES. You have improved it out of knowledge. It is the same
speech, but those new touches make all the difference. [JOHN sits
down heavily.] Mrs. Shand, be proud of him.

MAGGIE. I am. I am, John.

COMTESSE. You always said that his second thoughts were best,
Charles.

VENABLES [pleased to be reminded of it]. Didn't I, didn't I? Those
delicious little touches! How good that is, Shand, about the flowing
tide.

COMTESSE. The flowing tide?

VENABLES. In the first speech it was something like this--'Gentlemen,
the Opposition are calling to you to vote for them and the flowing
tide, but I solemnly warn you to beware lest the flowing tide does
not engulf you.' The second way is much better.

COMTESSE. What is the second way, Mr. Shand?

[JOHN does not tell her.]

VENABLES. This is how he puts it now. [JOHN cannot help raising his
head to listen.] 'Gentlemen, the Opposition are calling to you to
vote for them and the flowing tide, but I ask you cheerfully to vote
for us and DAM the flowing tide.'

[VENABLES and his old friend the COMTESSE laugh heartily, but for
different reasons.]

COMTESSE. It IS better, Mr. Shand.

MAGGIE. _I_ don't think so.

VENABLES. Yes, yes, it's so virile. Excuse me, Comtesse, I'm off to
read the whole thing again. [For the first time he notices that JOHN
is strangely quiet.] I think this has rather bowled you over, Shand.

[JOHN's head sinks lower.]

Well, well, good news doesn't kill.

MAGGIE [counsel for the defence]. Surely the important thing about
the speech is its strength and knowledge and eloquence, the things
that were in the first speech as well as in the second.

VENABLES. That of course is largely true. The wit would not be enough
without them, just as they were not enough without the wit. It is the
combination that is irresistible. [JOHN's head rises a little.]
Shand, you are our man, remember that, it is emphatically the best
thing you have ever done. How this will go down at Leeds!

[He returns gaily to his hammock; but lower sinks JOHN'S head, and
even the COMTESSE has the grace to take herself off. MAGGIE's arms
flutter near her husband, not daring to alight.]

MAGGIE. You heard what he said, John. It's the combination. Is it so
terrible to you to find that my love for you had made me able to help
you in the little things?

JOHN. The little things! It seems strange to me to hear you call me
by my name, Maggie. It's as if I looked on you for the first time.

MAGGIE. Look at me, John, for the first time. What do you see?

JOHN. I see a woman who has brought her husband low.

MAGGIE. Only that?

JOHN. I see the tragedy of a man who has found himself out. Eh, I
can't live with you again, Maggie.

[He shivers.]

MAGGIE. Why did you shiver, John?

JOHN. It was at myself for saying that I couldn't live with you
again, when I should have been wondering how for so long you have
lived with me. And I suppose you have forgiven me all the time. [She
nods.] And forgive me still? [She nods again.] Dear God!

MAGGIE. John, am I to go? or are you to keep me on? [She is now a
little bundle near his feet.] I'm willing to stay because I'm useful
to you, if it can't be for a better reason. [His hand feels for her,
and the bundle wriggles nearer.] It's nothing unusual I've done,
John. Every man who is high up loves to think that he has done it all
himself; and the wife smiles, and lets it go at that. It's our only
joke. Every woman knows that. [He stares at her in hopeless
perplexity.] Oh, John, if only you could laugh at me.

JOHN. I can't laugh, Maggie.

[But as he continues to stare at her a strange disorder appears in
his face. MAGGIE feels that it is to be now or never.]

MAGGIE. Laugh, John, laugh. Watch me; see how easy it is.

[A terrible struggle is taking place within him. He creaks. Something
that may be mirth forces a passage, at first painfully, no more joy
in it than in the discoloured water from a spring that has long been
dry. Soon, however, he laughs loud and long. The spring water is
becoming clear. MAGGIE claps her hands. He is saved.]










Avinash Kothare, Tiffany Vergon, Charles Franks, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team.



FANNY, THE FLOWER-GIRL;

OR, HONESTY REWARDED.

TO WHICH ARE ADDED OTHER TALES.


BY SELINA BUNBURY.





FANNY, THE FLOWER-GIRL


"Come, buy my flowers; flowers fresh and fair. Come, buy my flowers.
Please ma'am, buy a nice bunch of flowers, very pretty ones, ma'am.
Please, sir, to have some flowers; nice, fresh ones, miss; only just
gathered; please look."

Thus spoke, or sometimes sung, a little girl of perhaps eight years
old, holding in her hand a neat small basket, on the top of which lay
a clean white cloth, to shade from the sun the flowers which she
praised so highly, and a little bunch of which she presented to
almost every passer-by, in the hope of finding purchasers; while,
after one had passed rudely on, another had looked at her young face
and smiled, another had said, "What a nice child!" but not one had
taken the flowers, and left the penny or the half-penny that was to
pay for them the little girl, as if accustomed to all this, only
arranged again the pretty nosegays that had been disarranged in the
vain hope of selling them, and commenced anew in her pretty singing
tone, "Come, buy my flowers; flowers fresh and fair."

"Your flowers are sadly withered, my little maid," said a kind,
country-looking gentleman, who was buying some vegetables at a stall
near her.

"Oh, sir! I have fresh ones, here, sir; please look;" and the child
lifted up the cover of her basket, and drew from the very bottom a
bunch of blossoms on which the dew of morning still rested.

"Please to see, sir; a pretty rose, sir, and these pinks and
mignonette, and a bunch of jessamine, sir, and all for one penny."

"Bless thee! pretty dear!" said the old lame vegetable-seller,
"thou'lt make a good market-woman one of these days. Your honor would
do well to buy her flowers, sir, she has got no mother or father, God
help her, and works for a sick grandmother."

"Poor child!" said the old gentleman. "Here, then, little one, give
me three nice nosegays, and there is sixpence for you."

With delight sparkling in every feature of her face, and her color
changed to crimson with joy, the little flower-girl received in one
hand the unusual piece of money; and setting her basket on the
ground, began hastily and tremblingly to pick out nearly half its
contents as the price of the sixpence; but the gentleman stooped
down, and taking up at random three bunches of the flowers, which
were not the freshest, said,

"Here, these will do; keep the rest for a more difficult customer.
Be a good child; pray to God, and serve Him, and you will find He is
the Father of the fatherless."

And so he went away; and the flower-girl, without waiting to put her
basket in order, turned to the old vegetable-seller, and cried,
"Sixpence! a whole sixpence, and all at once. What will grandmother
say now? See!" and opening her hand, she displayed its shining before
her neighbor's eyes.

"Eh!" exclaimed the old man, as he approached his eyes nearer to it.
"Eh! what is this? why thou hast twenty sixpences there; this is a
half-sovereign!"

"Twenty sixpences! why the gentleman said, there is sixpence for
thee," said the child.

"Because he didn't know his mistake," replied the other; "I saw him
take the piece out of his waistcoat-pocket without looking."

"Oh dear! what shall I do?" cried the little girl.

"Why, thou must keep it, to be sure," replied the old man; "give it
to thy grandmother, she will know what to do with it, I warrant thee."

"But I must first try to find the good gentleman, and tell him of
his mistake," said the child. "I know what grandmother would say
else; and he cannot be far off, I think, because he was so fat; he
will go slow, I am sure, this hot morning. Here, Mr. Williams, take
care of my basket, please, till I come back."

And without a word more, the flower-girl put down her little basket
at the foot of the vegetable-stall, and ran away as fast as she could
go.

When she turned out of the market-place, she found, early as it was,
that the street before her was pretty full; but as from the passage
the gentleman had taken to leave the market-place, she knew he could
only have gone in one direction, she had still hopes of finding him;
and she ran on and on, until she actually thought she saw the very
person before her; he had just taken off his hat, and was wiping his
forehead with his handkerchief.

"That is him," said the little flower-girl, "I am certain;" but just
as she spoke, some persons came between her and the gentleman, and
she could not see him. Still she kept running on; now passing off the
foot-path into the street, and then seeing the fat gentleman still
before her; and then again getting on the foot-path, and losing sight
of him, until at last she came up quite close to him, as he was
walking slowly, and wiping the drops of heat from his forehead.

The poor child was then quite out of breath; and when she got up to
him she could not call out to him to stop, nor say one word; so she
caught hold of the skirt of his coat, and gave it a strong pull.

The gentleman started, and clapped one hand on his coat-pocket, and
raised up his cane in the other, for he was quite sure it was a
pickpocket at his coat. But when he turned, he saw the breathless
little flower-girl, and he looked rather sternly at her, and said,

"Well, what do you want; what are you about? eh!"

"Oh, sir!" said the girl; and then she began to cough, for her
breath was quite spent. "See, sir; you said you gave me sixpence, and
Mr. Williams says there are twenty sixpences in this little bit of
money."

"Dear me!" said the gentleman; "is it possible? could I have done
such a thing?" and he began to fumble in his waistcoat pocket.

"Well, really it is true enough," he added, as he drew out a
sixpence. "See what it is to put gold and silver together."

"I wish he would give it to me," thought the little flower-girl;
"how happy it would make poor granny; and perhaps he has got a good
many more of these pretty gold pieces."

But the old gentleman put out his hand, and took it, and turned it
over and over, and seemed to think a little; and then he put his hand
into his pocket again, and took out his purse; and he put the half-
sovereign into the purse, and took out of it another sixpence.

"Well," he said, "there is the sixpence I owe you for the flowers;
you have done right to bring me back this piece of gold; and there is
another sixpence for your race; it is not a reward, mind, for honesty
is only our duty, and you only did what is right; but you are tired,
and have left your employment, and perhaps lost a customer, so I give
you the other sixpence to make you amends."

"Thank you, sir," said the flower-girl, curtseying; and taking the
two sixpences into her hand with a delighted smile, was going to run
back again, when the old gentleman, pulling out a pocket-book, said,
"Stay a moment; you are an orphan, they tell me; what is your name?"

"Fanny, sir."

"Fanny what?"

"Please, I don't know, sir; grandmother is Mrs. Newton, sir; but she
says she is not my grandmother either, sir."

"Well, tell me where Mrs. Newton lives," said the gentleman, after
looking at her a minute or so, as if trying to make out what she meant.

So Fanny told him, and he wrote it down in his pocket-book, and then
read over what he had written to her, and she said it was right.

"Now, then, run away back," said he, "and sell all your flowers, if
you can, before they wither, for they will not last long this warm
day; flowers are like youth and beauty--do you ever think of that?
even the rose withereth afore it groweth up." And this fat gentleman
looked very sad, for he had lost all his children in their youth.

"O yes! sir; I know a verse which says that," replied Fanny. "All
flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of
grass--but good morning, and thank you, sir," and away Fanny ran.

And now, before going on with my story, I must go back to tell who
and what Fanny, the flower-girl, was.

Mrs. Newton, whom she called her grandmother, was now a poor old
woman, confined to her bed by a long and trying illness, that had
nearly deprived her of the use of her limbs. But she had not been
always thus afflicted. Some years before, Mrs. Newton lived in a neat
cottage near the road-side, two or three miles from one of the great
sea-port towns of England. Her husband had good employment, and they
were both comfortable and happy.

Just eight years from this time, it happened that one warm summer's
day, Mrs. Newton went to look out from her cottage door down the
road, and she saw a young woman standing there, leaning against a
tree, and looking very faint and weak.

She was touched with pity and asked the poor traveller to walk into
her house and rest. The young woman thankfully consented, for she
said she was very ill; but she added, that her husband was coming
after her, having been obliged to turn back for a parcel that was
left behind at the house where they had halted some time before, and
therefore she would sit near the door and watch for him.

Before, however, the husband came, the poor woman was taken
dreadfully ill; and when he did arrive, good Mrs. Newton could not
bear to put the poor creature out of the house in such a state; she
became worse and worse. In short, that poor young woman was Fanny's
mother, and when little Fanny was born, that poor sick mother died,
and Fanny never saw a mother's smile.

The day after the young woman's death, kind Mrs. Newton came into
the room where her cold body was laid out on the bed; and there was
her husband, a young, strong-looking man, sitting beside it; his
elbows were on his knees, and his face was hid in his open hands.

Mrs. Newton had the baby in her arms, and she spoke to its father as
she came in; he looked up to her; his own face was as pale as death;
and he looked at her without saying a word. She saw he was in too
much grief either to speak or weep. So she went over silently to him,
and put the little baby into his arms, and then said, "May the Lord
look down with pity on you both."

As soon as the unhappy young man heard these compassionate words,
and saw the face of his pretty, peaceful babe, he burst into tears;
they rolled in large drops down on the infant's head.

Then in a short time he was able to speak, and he told Mrs. Newton
his sad little history; how he had no one in the whole world to look
with pity on him, or his motherless child; and how God alone was his
hope in this day of calamity. His father had been displeased with him
because he had married that young woman, whom he dearly loved; and he
had given him some money that was his portion, and would do nothing
else for him. The young man had taken some land and a house, but as
the rent was too high, he could not make enough of the land to pay
it; so he had been obliged to sell all his goods, and he had only as
much money left as would, with great saving, carry him to America,
where he had a brother who advised him to go out there.

"And now," said he, looking over at the pale face of his dear wife,
"What shall I do with the little creature she has left me? how shall
I carry it over the wide ocean without a mother to care for it, and
nurse it?"

"You cannot do so," said Mrs. Newton, wiping her eyes; "leave it
with me; I have no children of my own, my husband would like to have
one; this babe shall lie in my bosom, and be unto me as a daughter. I
will nurse it for you until you are settled in America, and send or
come for it."

The young man wept with gratitude; he wanted to know how he was to
repay Mrs. Newton, but she said for the present she did not want
payment, that it would be a pleasure to her to have the baby; and it
would be time enough to talk about payment when the father was able
to claim it, and take it to a home.

So the next day they buried the poor young woman, and soon after the
young man went away and sailed off to America, and from that day to
this Mrs. Newton had never heard anything of him.

As she had said, that poor little motherless babe lay in her bosom,
and was unto her as a daughter; she loved it; she loved it when it
was a helpless little thing, weak and sickly; she loved it when it
grew a pretty lively baby, and would set its little feet on her
knees, and crow and caper before her face; she loved it when it began
to play around her as she sat at work, to lisp out the word "Ganny,"
for she taught it to call her grandmother; she loved it when it would
follow her into her nice garden, and pick a flower and carry it to
her, as she sat in the little arbor; and she, holding the flower,
would talk to it of God who made the flower, and made the bee that
drew honey from the flower, and made the sun that caused the flower
to grow, and the light that gave the flower its colors, and the rain
that watered it, and the earth that nourished it. And she loved that
child when it came back from the infant school, and climbed up on her
lap, or stood with its hands behind its back, to repeat some pretty
verses about flowers, or about the God who made them. That child was
Fanny, the flower-girl; and ah! how little did good Mrs. Newton think
she would be selling flowers in the streets to help to support her.

But it came to pass, that when Fanny was nearly six years old, Mrs.
Newton's husband fell very ill; it was a very bad, and very expensive
illness, for poor Mrs. Newton was so uneasy, she would sometimes have
two doctors to see him; but all would not do; he died: and Mrs.
Newton was left very poorly off.

In a short time she found she could not keep on her pretty cottage;
she was obliged to leave it; and the church where she had gone every
Sunday for so many years; and the church-yard where her husband was
buried, and little Fanny's mother; and the infant school where Fanny
learned so much; and the dear little garden, and the flowers that
were Fanny's teachers and favorites. Oh! how sorry was poor Mrs.
Newton. But even a little child can give comfort; and so little
Fanny, perhaps without thinking to do so, did; for when Mrs. Newton
for the last time sat out in her garden, and saw the setting sun go
down, and told Fanny she was going to leave that pretty garden, where
she had from infancy been taught to know God's works, the child
looked very sad and thoughtful indeed, for some time; but afterwards
coming up to her, said,

"But, grandmother, we shall not leave God, shall we? for you say God
is everywhere, and He will be in London too."

And oh! how that thought consoled poor Mrs. Newton; she did not
leave God,--God did not leave her.

So she left the abode of her younger years--the scene of her
widowhood; and she went away to hire a poor lodging in the outlets of
London; but her God was with her, and the child she had nursed in her
prosperity was her comfort in adversity.

Matters, however, went no better when she lived with little Fanny in
a poor lodging. She had only one friend in London, and she lived at a
distance from her. Mrs. Newton fell ill; there was no one to nurse
her but Fanny; she could no longer pay for her schooling, and
sometimes she was not able to teach her herself.

All this seemed very hard, and very trying; and one would have been
tempted to think that God was no longer with poor Mrs. Newton; that
when she had left her cottage she had left the God who had been so
good to her.

But this would have been a great mistake. God was with Mrs. Newton;
He saw fit to try and afflict her; but He gave her strength and
patience to bear her trials and afflictions.

One afternoon her friend came to pay her a visit: she was going out
a little way into the country to see a relation who had a very fine
nursery-garden, and she begged Mrs. Newton to let little Fanny go
with her own daughter. Mrs. Newton was very glad to do so for she
thought it would be a nice amusement for Fanny.

The nurseryman was very kind to her; and when she was going away
gave her a fine bunch of flowers. Fanny was in great delight, for she
loved flowers and knew her dear grandmother loved them too. But as
she was coming back, and just as she was entering the streets, she
met a lady and a little boy of about three years old, who directly
held out his hands and began to beg for the flowers. His mamma
stopped, and as Fanny was very poorly dressed, she thought it
probable that she would sell her nosegay, and so she said,

"Will you give that bunch of flowers to my little boy, and I will
pay you for it?"

"Please, ma'am, they are for grandmother," said Fanny blushing, and
thinking she ought to give the flowers directly, and without money to
any one who wished for them.

"But perhaps your grand-mother would rather have this sixpence?"
said the lady. And Mrs. Newton's friend, who had just come up, said,

"Well, my dear, take the lady's sixpence, and let her have the
flowers if she wishes for them."

So Fanny held the flowers to the lady, who took them and put the
sixpence in her hand. Fanny wished much to ask for one rose, but she
thought it would not be right to do so, when the lady had bought them
all: and she looked at them so very longingly that the lady asked if
she were sorry to part with them.

"Oh! no, ma'am," cried her friend, "she is not at all sorry--come
now, don't be a fool, child," she whispered, and led Fanny on.

"That is a good bargain for you," she added as she went on; "that
spoiled little master has his own way, I think; it would be well for
you, and your grandmother too, if you could sell sixpenny worth of
flowers every day."

"Do you think I could, ma'am?" said Fanny, opening her hand and
looking at her sixpence, "this will buy something to do poor granny
good; do you think Mr. Simpson would give me a nosegay every day?"

"If you were to pay him for it, he would," said her friend; "suppose
you were to go every morning about five o'clock, as many others do,
and buy some flowers, and then sell them at the market; you might
earn something, and that would be better than being idle, when poor
Mrs. Newton is not able to do for herself and you."

So when Fanny got back, she gave her dear grandmother the sixpence.

"The Lord be praised!" said Mrs. Newton, "for I scarcely knew how I
was to get a loaf of bread for thee or myself to-morrow."

And then Fanny told her the plan she had formed about the flowers.

Mrs. Newton was very sorry to think her dear child should be obliged
to stand in a market place, or in the public streets, to offer
anything for sale; but she said, "Surely it is Providence has opened
this means of gaining a little bread, while I am laid here unable to
do anything; and shall I not trust that Providence with the care of
my darling child?"

So from this time forth little Fanny set off every morning before
five o'clock, to the nursery garden; and the nursery-man was very
kind to her, and always gave her the nicest flowers; and instead of
sitting down with the great girls, who went there also for flowers or
vegetables, and tying them up in bunches, Fanny put them altogether
in her little basket, and went away to her grandmother's room, and
spread them out on the little table that poor Mrs. Newton might see
them, while the sweet dew was yet sparkling on their bright leaves.

Then she would tell how beautiful the garden looked at that sweet
early hour; and Mrs. Newton would listen with pleasure, for she loved
a garden. She used to say, that God placed man in a garden when he
was happy and holy; and when he was sinful and sorrowful, it was in a
garden that the blessed Saviour wept and prayed for the sin of the
world; and when his death had made atonement for that sin, it was in
a garden his blessed body was laid.

Mrs. Newton taught Fanny many things from flowers; she was not a bad
teacher, in her own simple way, but Jesus Christ, who was the best
teacher the world ever had, instructed his disciples from vines and
lilies, corn and fruit, and birds, and all natural things around them.

And while Fanny tied up her bunches of flowers, she would repeat
some verses from the Holy Scriptures, such as this, "O Lord, how
manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth
is full of thy riches." And afterwards she would repeat such pretty
lines as these:--

  "Not worlds on worlds, in varied form,
     Need we, to tell a God is here;
   The daisy, saved from winter's storm,
     Speaks of his hand in lines as clear.

  "For who but He who formed the skies,
     And poured the day-spring's living flood,
   Wondrous alike in all He tries,
     Could rear the daisy's simple bud!

  "Mould its green cup, its wiry stem,
     Its fringed border nicely spin;
   And cut the gold-embossed gem,
     That, shrined in silver, shines within;

  "And fling it, unrestrained and free,
     O'er hill, and dale, and desert sod,
   That man, where'er he walks, may see,
     In every step the trace of God."


"And I, too, have had my daisy given to me," poor Mrs. Newton would
say, with tearful eyes, as she gazed on her little flower-girl; "I
too have my daisy, and though it may be little cared for in the
world, or trodden under foot of men, yet will it ever bear, I trust,
the trace of God."

But it happened the very morning that the gentleman had given Fanny
the half-sovereign in mistake, Mrs. Newton's money was quite spent;
and she was much troubled, thinking the child must go the next
morning to the garden without money to pay for her flowers, for she
did not think it likely she would sell enough to buy what they
required, and pay for them also; so she told Fanny she must ask Mr.
Simpson to let her owe him for a day or two until she got a little
money she expected.

Fanny went therefore, and said this to the kind man at the garden;
and he put his hand on her head, and said, "My pretty little girl,
you may owe me as long as you please, for you are a good child, and
God will prosper you."

So Fanny went back in great delight, and told this to Mrs. Newton;
and to cheer her still more, she chose for her morning verse, the
advice that our Lord gave to all those who were careful and troubled
about the things of this life "Consider the lilies of the field, how
they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin; and yet I say unto
you that Solomon in all his glory, was not arrayed like one of these.
Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to-day is,
and to-morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe
you, oh ye of little faith?"

And then she repeated some verses which both she and Mrs. Newton
liked very much.

  "Lo! the lilies of the field,
  How their leaves instruction yield!
  Hark to nature's lesson, given
  By the blessed birds of heaven.

  "Say with richer crimson glows,
  The kingly mantle than the rose;
  Say are kings more richly dressed,
  Than the lily's glowing vest!

"Grandmother I forget the next verse," said Fanny, interrupting
herself; "I know it is something about lilies not spinning; but then
comes this verse--

  "Barns, nor hoarded store have we"--

"It is not the lilies, grandmother, but the blessed birds that are
speaking now--

  "Barns, nor hoarded store have we,
  Yet we carol joyously;
  Mortals, fly from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow."

Poor Mrs. Newton clasped her thin hands, and looked up, and prayed
like the disciples, "Lord, increase our faith!"

"Eh!" said she, afterwards, "is it not strange that we can trust our
Lord and Saviour with the care of our souls for eternity, and we
cannot trust Him with that of our bodies for a day."

Well! this was poor Mrs. Newton's state on that day, when the
gentleman gave Fanny the half-sovereign instead of sixpence, for her
flowers.

When the little flower-girl came back from her race with her two
sixpences, she found the old vegetable-seller had got her three or
four pennies more, by merely showing her basket, and telling why it
was left at his stall; and so every one left a penny for the honest
child, and hoped the gentleman would reward her well. The old man at
the stall said it was very shabby of him only to give her sixpence;
but when she went home with three sixpences and told Mrs. Newton this
story, she kissed her little girl very fondly, but said the gentleman
was good to give her sixpence, for he had no right to give her
anything, she had only done her duty.

"But, grandmother," said Fanny, "when I saw that pretty half-
sovereign dropping down to his purse, I could not help wishing he
would give it to me."

"And what commandment did you break then, my child?"

"Not the eighth--if I had kept the half-sovereign I should have
broken it," said Fanny, "for that says, thou shalt not steal--what
commandment did I break, grandmother; for I did not steal?"

"When we desire to have what is not ours Fanny, what do we do? we
covet; do we not?"

"Oh! yes--thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's goods," cried Fanny,
"that is the tenth commandment; and that half-sovereign was my
neighbor's goods, and that fat gentleman was my neighbor. But,
grandmother, it is very easy to break the tenth commandment."

"Very easy indeed, my dear," said Mrs. Newton, with first a faint
smile, and then a deep sigh, "therefore," she added, "we ought always
to pray like David, 'Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity.'"

There is a very common saying, that when things are at the worst
they mend. It is hard to say when matters are at the worst; poor Mrs.
Newton knew they might yet be worse with her; but certainly, they
were very bad; and a few days after this, as Fanny was tying up her
flowers as usual, she lay on her bed thinking what she was to do, and
praying that God would direct her to some way of providing for the
poor child.

While she was thinking and praying, tears stole down her face; Fanny
saw them, and stopped her work, and looked sorrowfully at her--

"Now you are crying again, grandmother, she said," and that's what
makes me break the tenth commandment, for I can't help wishing the
gentleman had given me that half-sovereign. But I will say the verses
again to-day about the lilies and birds; for you know I said that
morning--

  'Mortals fly from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow,'

and when I came back with my three sixpences, you said God
_had_ provided for the morrow, for you had only two or three
pennies in the house when I went out."

"And how many pennies, pray, have you in the house to-day?" said a
rather gruff voice at the door.

Mrs. Newton and Fanny started; but there, standing at the door,
Fanny saw the fat gentleman who had given her the half-sovereign.

"So you have been wishing for my gold, you little rogue," he said,
looking as if he meant to frighten her. "Never mind," he added,
smiling, "you are a good child, and did what was right; and I always
meant to bring it back to you, but I have been kept rather busy these
few days past. There it is for you, and try not to break the tenth
commandment again." Then turning to Mrs. Newton, he said, "We should
not expect rewards, ma'am, for doing our duty, but if children do not
meet with approbation when they do right, they may be discouraged,
and perhaps think there is no use in being good: for they are silly
little creatures, you know, and do not always recollect that God will
reward the just one day if men do not."

"Oh! sir!" said poor Mrs. Newton, but the tears streamed down, and
she could not say a word more. And there Fanny sat gazing on the half-
sovereign, as if she was half stupefied.

"Well, take up that bit of gold, and do what you like with it," said
the fat gentleman; "and then run off to sell your flowers, for we
must not be idle because we have got enough for to-day. But do what
you like with that money."

Fanny rose up from her seat, and looking very much as if she was
moving in her sleep, with her wondering eyes fixed on the shining
piece that lay in her hand, she walked slowly over to Mrs. Newton,
and putting it into hers, said,--

"May I go to the grocer's now, grandmother, and get you the tea for
your breakfast?"

"Yes, my love," said Mrs. Newton, kissing her, "and take care of
this, and bring back the change carefully." Then turning to the
gentleman, she said, "I am not young, sir, and I am very, very
poorly; I find it hard to go without my tea, but it is a luxury I
have been obliged latterly to forego."

"But could you not get tea on credit, from the grocer?" said the
gentleman.

"Oh! yes, I believe so; but there would be no use in getting
credit;" said Mrs. Newton, "for I am not certain of being better able
to pay next week than I am this week; and when I have not the money
to pay for what I wish to get, it is better to do without it, than to
add to one's anxieties by running in debt. Do you not think so, sir?"

"Ma'am," said the old gentleman, sitting down, and resting his large
silver-topped stick between his knees, "it is of very little
consequence what I think; but if you wish to know this, I will tell
you that I think very well both of you and your little girl, who, as
I have heard, for I have made inquiries about you both, is a
dependant on your bounty. You have trained her up well, though I
wouldn't praise the child to her face; and so take as much tea as you
like till you hear from me again, and your grocer need be in no
trouble about his bill."

So after the fat gentleman had made this rather bluff, but honest-
hearted speech, and poor Mrs. Newton had wept, and thanked him in
language that sounded more polite, the good old gentleman told her
his whole history.

He began the world very poor, and without relations able to assist
him; he was at last taken into the employment of a young merchant in
the city; he had a turn for business, and having been able to render
some important services to this young man, he was finally, to his own
surprise, and that of every one else, taken into partnership.

"During all this time," said he, "I was attached from my boyhood to
the daughter of the poor schoolmaster who first taught me to read; I
would not marry her while I was poor, for I thought that would be to
make her wretched instead of happy; but when I was taken into
partnership I thought my way was clear; I went off to Bethnal Green,
and told Mary, and our wedding-day was settled at once. Well, we were
glad enough, to be sure; but a very few days after, my partner called
me into the private room, and said he wanted to consult me. He seemed
in high spirits, and he told me he had just heard of a famous
speculation, by which we could both make our fortunes at once. He
explained what it was, and I saw with shame and regret, that no
really honest man could join in it: I told him so; I told him plainly
I would have nothing to do with it. You may think what followed; the
deeds of partnership were not yet signed, and in short, in two or
three days more I found myself poor Jack Walton again--indeed, poorer
than I was before I was made one of the firm of Charters and Walton,
for I had lost my employment.

"Often and often I used to think that David said, he had never seen
the righteous forsaken; yet I was suffering while the unrighteous
were prospering. It was a sinful, and a self-righteous thought, and I
was obliged to renounce it; when, after some time of trial, a
gentleman sent for me--a man of wealth, and told me his son was going
into business on his own account; that he had heard of my character,
and of the cause of my leaving Mr. Charters; that he thought I would
be just such a steady person as he wished his son to be with. In
short, I began with him on a handsome salary; was soon made his
partner; married Mary, and had my snug house in the country. Mr.
Charters succeeded in that speculation; entered into several others,
some of which were of a more fraudulent nature, failed, and was
ruined. He ran off to America, and no one knows what became of him. I
have left business some years. I purchased a nice property in the
country, built a Church upon it, and have ever thanked God, who never
forsakes those who wish to act righteously.

"It pleased God to take all my sweet children from me--every state
has its trials--the youngest was just like your little flower-girl."

Mrs. Newton was much pleased with this story; she then told her own,
and little Fanny's. The fat gentleman's eyes were full of tears when
she ended; when he was going away he put another half-sovereign into
her hand, and saying, "The first was for the child," walked out of
the house.

A short time afterwards, a clergyman came to see Mrs. Newton--she
was surprised; he sat and talked with her some time, and seemed
greatly pleased with her sentiments, and all she told him of herself
and Fanny. He then told her that he was the clergyman whom Mr.
Walton, on the recommendation of the bishop of the diocese, had
appointed to the church he had built; that Mr. Walton had sent him to
see her, and had told him, if he was satisfied with all he saw and
heard, to invite Mrs. Newton and the little flower-girl to leave
London, and go and live in one of the nice widows' houses, which good
Mr. Walton had built, near the pretty village where he lived.

Then there was great joy in poor Mrs. Newton's humble abode; Mrs.
Newton was glad for Fanny's sake, and Fanny was glad for Mrs.
Newton's sake, so both were glad, and both said--

  "Mortals fly from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow."

But the only difference was, that Mrs. Newton said it with watery
eyes and clasped hands, lying on her bed and looking up to heaven;
and Fanny--merry little thing!--said it frisking and jumping about
the room, clapping her hands together, and laughing her joy aloud.

Well, there was an inside place taken in the B---- coach, for Mrs.
Newton and Fanny; and not only that, but kind Mrs. Walton sent up her
own maid to London, to see that everything was carefully done, as the
poor woman was ill, and help to pack up all her little goods; and,
with her, she sent an entire new suit of clothes for the flower-girl.

They set off, and when they got near to the village the coachman
stopped, and called out to know if it were the first, or the last of
the red cottages he was to stop at; and Mrs. Walton's maid said, "The
last,--the cottage in the garden." So they stopped at such a pretty
cottage, with a little garden before and behind it. Mr. Walton had
known what it was to be poor, and so, when he grew rich, he had built
these neat houses, for those who had been rich and become poor. They
were intended chiefly for the widows of men of business, whose
character had been good, but who had died without being able to
provide for their families. He had made an exception in Mrs. Newton's
case, and gave her one of the best houses, because it had a pretty
garden, which he thought others might not care for so much.

They went inside, and there was such a neat kitchen, with tiles as
red as tiles could be; a little dresser, with all sorts of useful
things; a nice clock ticking opposite the fire-place, and a grate as
bright as blacklead could make it. And then there was such a pretty
little room at one side, with a rose tree against the window; and a
little shelf for books against the wall; and a round table, and some
chairs, and an easy couch. And there were two nice bedrooms overhead;
and, better than all these, was a pretty garden. Oh! how happy was
the little flower-girl; and how thankful was poor Mrs. Newton! The
first thing she did was to go down on her knees and thank God.

Then Fanny was to go to the school, for Mrs. Walton had her own
school, as well as the national school; but Fanny did not know enough
to go to it, so she was sent to the national school first, and
afterwards she went to the other, where about a dozen girls were
instructed in all things that would be useful to them through life--
whether they were to earn their bread at service, or to live in their
own homes as daughters, wives, or mothers.

But every morning, before she went out, she did everything for her
dear, good grandmother. She made her breakfast; she arranged her
room; and she gathered some fresh flowers in the garden, and put them
on the table in the little parlor. Oh! how happy was Fanny when she
looked back, and saw how nice everything looked, and then went out
singing to her school--

  "Barns, nor hoarded store have we,
  Yet we carol joyously;
  Mortals flee from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow."

But God will not provide for the morrow, where people will do
nothing to provide for themselves; and so Fanny, the flower-girl,
knew, for surely God had blessed the labor of her childish hands.

Thus passed time away; and Fanny, under the instruction that she had
at church, at school, and at home, "grew in grace, and in the
knowledge and love of God, and of Jesus Christ our Lord."

Good Mrs. Newton was much better in health, and used to walk about
sometimes without any support but Fanny's arm, and so time went on
till Fanny came to be about fifteen; and then Mrs. Newton, who was
not always free from "doubt and sorrow," began to think what was to
become of her if she were to die.

So one day, when kind Mr. Walton, whom Fanny used once to call the
fat gentleman, came in to see her, Mrs. Newton told him that she was
beginning to feel anxious that Fanny should be put in a way of
earning her own bread, in case she should be taken from her.

Mr. Walton listened to her, and then he said,--

"You are very right and prudent, Mrs. Newton, but never mind that; I
have not forgotten my little flower-girl, and her race after me that
hot morning; if you were dead, I would take care of her; and if we
both were dead, Mrs. Walton would take care of her; and if Mrs.
Walton were dead, God would take care of her. I see you cannot yet
learn the little lines she is so fond of--

  "'Mortals flee from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow.'"

Well, not very long after this conversation came a very warm day,
and in all the heat of the sun came Mr. Walton, scarcely able to
breathe, into Mrs. Newton's cottage; he was carrying his hat in one
hand, and a newspaper in the other, and his face was very red and hot.

"Well, Mrs. Newton," said he, "what is all this about?--I can't make
it out; here is your name in the paper!"

"My name, sir!" said Mrs. Newton, staring at the paper.

"Aye, indeed is it," said Mr. Walton, putting on his spectacles, and
opening the paper at the advertisement side,--"see here!"

And he began to read,--

"If Mrs. Newton, who lived about fifteen years ago near the turnpike
on the P-- road, will apply to Messrs. Long and Black, she will hear
of something to her advantage. Or should she be dead, any person who
can give information respecting her and her family, will be rewarded."

Mrs. Newton sat without the power of speech--so much was she
surprised; at last she said, "It is Fanny's father!--I know, I am
sure it can be no one else!"

Mr. Walton looked surprised, for he had never thought of this; he
was almost sorry to think his little flower-girl should have another
protector. At length he said it must be as Mrs. Newton thought, and
he would go up to London himself next day, and see Mr. Long and Mr.
Black. So he went; and two days afterwards, when Fanny had returned
from Mrs. Walton's school, and was sitting with Mrs. Newton in the
little shady arbor they had made in the garden, and talking over
early days, when they used to sit in another arbor, and Fanny used to
learn her first lessons from flowers, then came Mr. Walton walking up
the path towards them, and with him was a fine-looking man, of about
forty-five years of age.

Mrs. Newton trembled, for when she looked in his face she remembered
the features; and she said to herself, "Now, if he takes my Fanny
from me?--and if he should be a bad man?" But when this man came
nearer, he stepped hastily beyond Mr. Walton, and catching Mrs.
Newton's hands, he was just going to drop on his knees before her,
when he saw Fanny staring at him; and a father's feelings overcame
every other, and with a cry of joy he extended his arms, and
exclaiming "my child!'--my child!" caught her to his breast.

Then there followed so much talk, while no one knew scarcely what
was saying; and it was Mr. Walton, chiefly, that told how Fanny's
father had had so much to struggle against, and so much hardship to
go through, but how he had succeeded at last, and got on very well;
now he had tried then to find out Mrs. Newton and his dear little
Fanny, but could not, because Mrs. Newton had changed her abode; how,
at last, he had met with a good opportunity to sell his land, and had
now come over with the money he had earned, to find his child, and
repay her kind benefactor.

Oh, what a happy evening was that in the widow's cottage! the
widow's heart sang for joy. The widow, and she that had always
thought herself an orphan, were ready to sing together--

  "Mortals flee from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow."

Mrs. Newton found that Mr. Marsden, that was the name of Fanny's
father, was all that she could desire Fanny's father to be:--a
Christian in deed and in truth; one thankful to God and to her, for
the preservation and care of his child; and who would not willingly
separate Fanny from her, or let her leave Fanny.

As he found Mrs. Newton did not wish to leave kind Mr. Walton's
neighborhood, and that his daughter was attached to it also, Mr.
Marsden took some land and a nice farm-house, not far from the Manor
House, where Mr. Walton lived. He had heard all about the half-
sovereign, and loved his little flower-girl before he saw her.

So Mrs. Newton had to leave her widow's house; and she shed tears of
joy, and regret, and thankfulness, as she did so; she had been happy
there, and had had God's blessing upon her and her dear girl.

But Fanny was glad to receive her dear, dear grandmother into her
own father's house; her own house too; and she threw her arms round
the old lady's neck, when they got there, and kissed her over and
over again, and said, "Ah! grandmother, do you recollect when I was a
little girl tying up my flowers while you lay sick in bed, I used to
say so often--

  "'Mortals flee from doubt and sorrow,
  God provideth for the morrow.'"

They had a large garden at the farm-house, and Fanny and Mrs. Newton
improved it; and Mrs. Newton would walk out, leaning on Fanny's arm,
and look at the lilies and roses, and jessamine, and mignonette, and
talk of past times, and of their first garden, and their first
flowers, and of their first knowledge of the God who made them; who
watches the opening bud, and the infant head; who sends his rain upon
the plant, and the dew of his blessing upon the child who is taught
to know and love Him. And Fanny's father, when he joined them, talked
over his trials and dangers from the day that his poor wife lay dead,
and his helpless baby lay in his arms, and then he blessed the God
who had led him all his life long, and crowned him with loving-
kindness.

Three years passed, and Fanny, the little flower-girl, was a fine
young woman. A farmer's son in the neighborhood wished to get her for
his wife; but her father was very sorry to think of her leaving him
so soon for another home.

He spoke to Fanny about it, and said,--"My dear girl, I have no
right to expect you should wish to stay with me, for I never was able
to watch over your childhood or to act a father's part by you."

And Fanny answered, with a blush and smile, "And I, father, was
never able to act a daughter's part by you until now, and therefore I
think you have every right to expect I should do so for some time
longer. I have no objections to be Charles Brierley's wife, and I
have told him so; but we are both young, and at all events I will not
leave you."

"Now," said Mrs. Newton, who was sitting by, "instead of that young
man taking more land, which is very dear about here, would it not be
a good plan if he were to come and live with you, Mr. Marsden, and
help you with the farm."

And Mr. Marsden said, "That is the very thing; I will go and speak
to him about it; and Fanny and her husband can have the house, and
farm, and all, as much as they please now, and entirely at my death."

So it was all settled; and Fanny was married at the village church,
and Mr. and Mrs. Walton were at the wedding. Good Mrs. Newton lived
on at the farm-house, and when Fanny's first child was born, it was
put into her arms. Then she thought of the time when Fanny herself
was laid in the same arms; and she blessed God in her heart, who had
enabled her to be of use to one human creature, and to one immortal
soul and mind, while she passed through this life to the life
everlasting.

Joy and sorrow are always mingled on this earth; so it came to pass
that before Fanny's first child could walk alone, good, kind Mrs.
Newton died, and was buried. As a shock of corn cometh in, in its
season, so she sank to rest, and was gathered into the garner of her
Lord. But--

  "The memory of the just
  Is blessed, though they sleep in dust;"

and Fanny's children, and children's children, will learn to love
that memory.

Many a day, sitting at work in her garden, with her little ones
around her, Fanny let them gather some flowers, and talk to her about
them; and then they would beg, as a reward for good conduct, that she
would tell them about her dear grandmother and her own childish days;
and much as children love to hear stories, never did any more delight
in a story, than did these children, in the story of Fanny, the
Flower-Girl.




Convenient Food.


Little Frances was crying; her sister Mary hearing her sobs, ran in
haste to inquire what had happened; and saw her sitting in a corner
of the nursery, looking rather sulky, as if she had recently received
some disappointment.

"What is the matter, dear little Frances? why do you cry so?"

Frances pouted, and would make no reply.

"Tell me, dear Frances; perhaps I can do something for you."

"Nothing, Mary," she sobbed, "only"--

"Only what, little Frances? It cannot be _nothing_ that makes
you cry so bitterly."

"Only mamma would not give--" she looked a little ashamed, and did
not finish her sentence.

"_What_ would she not give?"

"Nothing."

"Nothing!" Frances shook her elbows, as if troubled by Mary's
inquiries, but the tears continued flowing down her cheeks.

Just at that moment their sister Anne came into the room, singing in
the joy of her heart, with a piece of plum-cake in her hand, holding
it up, and turning it about before her sisters to exhibit her
newly-acquired possession, on which Frances fixed her eyes with eager
gaze, and the tears flowed still faster, accompanied with a kind of
angry sob.

"Frances! what is the matter that you are crying so? see what I have
got! you will spoil all the happiness of our feast."


At the word _feast_, Frances' tears seemed arrested, and her
mouth looked as if she were going to smile. She left the corner, and
immediately prepared to do her part for the feast, setting a little
square table, and then, drawing her own little stool, seated herself
in readiness as a guest.

"Stay," said Anne, "we will make some little paper dishes and
plates, and divide the cake;" so saying, she began the operation, and
laying down the paper dishes, "there at the top, see! there shall be
two chickens, at the bottom a piece of beef, at one side some
potatoes, and at the other some cauliflower;" breaking her cake into
small pieces to correspond to her imagined provision.

Frances looked very impatient at the long preparation, and as Anne
seated herself, inviting Mary to partake, Frances stretched out her
hand to take the beef for her own portion.

"No, no, Frances, you must not help yourself, you know; wait until
we all begin in order."

Frances very reluctantly withdrew her hand, and, whilst she waited,
betrayed her impatience by a little jerking motion of the body, that
threw her breast against the table, as if she would beat time into
quicker motion.

"O we must not forget William!" Anne exclaimed; "where is he? he
must taste our feast; stay here, Mary, with Frances, and I will go
and find him."

Away she ran, and left poor Frances in a fret at this additional
delay, but she began to amuse herself by picking up the small crumbs
that had been scattered on the stool, and at last proceeded to touch
the beef and chickens.

"Do not do so, Frances," Mary said, in a reproving voice.

Frances colored.

"Do not sit _looking_ on, if you are so impatient; employ
yourself, and get a seat ready for William."

"_You_ may get it, Mary."

"Very well; only do not meddle with Anne's feast."

Mary had to go into another room for the seat, and whilst she was
away, Frances quickly helped herself to half of the pieces which were
on the dishes, and, when Mary returned, resumed her position as if
nothing had happened. Mary was so busy in arranging the seats, that
she did not observe what had been done.

Presently Anne came back, accompanied by her brother William;
hastening to her place, and looking on her table, she started with
surprise, and seemed to say to herself, as she gazed, How came I to
make a mistake, an think my pieces of cake were larger? but the
expression of her face called Mary's attention, who at once said,

"Anne, I am sure you placed larger pieces on your dishes."

"Indeed, I thought so, Mary; who has taken any?"

"I do not know."

"O you are only _pretending_, and you have been hiding some."

"No, Anne; I would not have said I do not know, if I had _hid_
it."

"No, no more you would, dear Mary. Never mind," she said, glancing a
look at Frances, not altogether without suspicion, "it is only to
_play_ with, it does not signify whether it is much or little.

"William, shall I help you to a little chicken?"

"O no, Anne, you have forgot, help the _ladies_ first; and
beside, you ought to have placed me at the bottom of the table to
carve this dish. What is it?"

"Beef, William."

"O beef, very well. Come, Miss Frances, let me sit there, and you
come to the side of the table."

In haste to begin the eating part of the play, she rose immediately
to change places, when, to her disgrace, a quantity of crumbs, which
had lodged unobserved in a fold of her frock, fell out, and
disordered the neatness of the table.

"There!" said William, "we have no question to ask who took the
liberty to lessen the dishes."

"For shame, William, I--"

"O Frances, take care what you say, tell no falsehoods; I will tell
one truth, and say you are a greedy girl."

Frances began to cry again, "For shame, William, to call me names."

"I call no names, I only say what I think, and how can I help it,
when it is only just now you cried so, because you said mamma had
given me a larger piece of cake than yourself; for you must know," he
continued, turning to Mary, "we have both had one piece before, and
she half of mine to make her quiet; and then she cried again because
a piece was put by for you and Anne, and she cannot be contented now,
though Anne shares hers amongst us. If this is not being greedy, I do
not know what greedy means. It is no names, it is only saying what a
thing is."

"Now I know another thing," said Anne; "when mamma called me to
receive my piece of cake, she said, 'And you shall take a piece also
to Mary,' but when she unfolded the paper, there was only _one_
piece; mamma did not say anything, but I think she _thought_
something."

At this remark, Frances redoubled her crying, but, for the sake of a
share of the present feast, did not attempt to leave the party. No
more was said, and the feast was concluded in good humor by all
except the conscious greedy girl, and they then all went into the
garden together to finish their hour's recreation before they were
called again to their lessons.

There was a little plantation of young fir-trees at one corner of
the garden, intended to grow there for shelter from the north-west
wind: the grass was so high amongst them, that the gardener had
orders to go and carefully mow it down. He was engaged in the
business when the children ran out to see him work.

"Hush! hush!" he exclaimed, as they approached, "I have just cleared
a bough from the grass, and see what's there!"

All curiosity, they went forward on tip-toe, and were directed to
something lodged on the spreading branch of a young larch.

"A bird's nest!" said William.

"A bird's nest!" they all repeated. "But what is in it, I cannot
tell."

"Look steadily," said the gardener, "and you will find out."

It was difficult to trace what it was; something all in a heap,
brown naked skin; alive, as might be known by the heaving breathing.
William putting his finger to touch them, immediately four wide
mouths stretched open, with little tongues raised, and the opening of
their throats extended to the utmost.

"Look at the little things," said William; "they thought their
mother was come when I touched the branch, and they have opened their
mouths to be ready to receive what she would put in.

"They are _blind_!" said William.

"Yes, they cannot have been hatched more than two days."

"Will they take what the mother gives them?" asked William.

"Yes," said the man, "they trust her, and swallow down what she puts
into their mouths."

"I wish the mother would come," said Anne.

"But she will not whilst we are here," William replied.

"Touch it again, William," said Frances.

William touched the edge of the nest "See!" said he, "they think the
mother is come, they stretch, their months still wider."

"Hark!" said Mary, "what an impatient noise they make: they look
ready to stretch themselves out of their nest, and as if their little
mouths would tear."

"Poor little things! do not disappoint them, give them something,"
said Anne.

"We have not proper food for them," said William.

"I will run and fetch some crumbs," said Mary.

Mary soon returned with a piece of bread, and giving it to her
brother as the most experienced, he broke it into extremely small
crumbs, and, again touching the nest, awakened the expectation of the
young birds: they opened their mouths wide, and as he dropped a small
crumb into each, they moved their tongues, trying to make it pass
down into their throat. "Poor little things, they cannot swallow
well, they want the mother to put it gently down their throat with
her beak."

"See! see!" said all the girls, "they want more, give them more."

William dropped his crumbs again.

"More, more, William; see! they are not satisfied."

"I dare not give them more for fear of killing them, we cannot feed
them like the mother. We will stand still at a little distance, and
you will see them go to sleep." When all was quiet, the little
nestlings shut their mouths, and dropped their heads.

"I should like to see the mother feed them."

"You would see how much better she would do it than we can; perhaps,
if we could conceal ourselves behind that laurel, she would come, but
she will be very frightened, because all is so altered now the grass
is cut down, and her nest is exposed; but I dare say she is not for
off, she will be watching somewhere."

They took William's hint, and retreated behind the laurel; they had
not waited ten minutes, before the hen bird flitted past, and,
darting over the larch, as if to inspect whether her little brood was
safe, she disappeared again. In a few minutes more, she returned,
skimming round to reconnoitre that all was safe, she perched upon the
nest. Instantly the little nestlings were awake to the summons of her
touch and chirp, and, opening their mouths wide, were ready for what
she would give. She dropt a small fly into the mouth of one of them,
and, having no more, flew away to provide for the other hungry mouths
as fast as she could. As soon as she was gone, they again shut their
mouths, and dropt their heads in silence.

"What a little bit she gave them," said Frances.

"Yes," answered William, "but she knows it is _plenty_."

"How contented the others seem to wait till she comes again!"

"Yes, Mary," William again answered, unable to resist the comparison
which had come to his mind, "they did not take the little bit away
from the other. Shall we wait till she comes again?"

"O do."

"Very well, I want to see whether the one that was fed first will
take away the bit the others got."

The allusion made a little laugh, but, seeing that Frances
understood and felt that it applied to her, Anne said, "Do not let us
tease Frances; it is better to tell her at once what her fault is,
than to seem to like to hurt her."

"Indeed, dear Anne, I have not spared to tell her, her fault, as she
knows very well, for she has often given me reason, but I cannot make
her ashamed of such things; and I know mamma is very uneasy to see it
in her."

Frances looked grave, but did not cry; turning pale, however, she
said, "O Mary take me out of this laurel--I am so sick!"

Mary hastened to take her into the freer air, but all in vain. The
sisters were alarmed, and took her in to their mamma; who received
her gravely, without expressing any concern for her indisposition.

"What can we do for Frances, mamma? Will you let her have your
smelling bottle, or shall I run and get some sal volatile?"

"Neither, my dear Mary; it is an indisposition caused by her own
selfish appetite, and probably the relief may be obtained by her
stomach rejecting what she so improperly forced upon it. We will wait
a short time, and if not, I will give her something less palatable,
perhaps, than plum-cake, but necessary to remove it."

Frances was too ill to make any remark; she became paler still, and
then quickly flushed almost a crimson color, her eyes were oppressed,
and her eyebrows contracted, and she impatiently complained,

"O my head! how it beats! What shall I do, mamma?"

"Bear the consequences of your own inordinate appetite, Frances, and
learn to subject it to the wholesome rules of temperance."

"O the nasty plum-cake! I wish you had not given me any, mamma."

"You _once_ thought the plum-cake _nice_, and you would
not be contented with the small portion I knew to be sufficient and
safe for you."

"O my head! I think it is very cruel, mamma, that you do not pity me."

"I do pity you, Frances, and will take care of you now that I see
you require help, as I perceive that you will not have any relief
without medicine."

Frances began again to cry, "O, I am so sick! I cannot take
medicine. I am sure I cannot."

"Come to your room, Frances; I shall give you something proper, and
you had better lie down after you have taken it; you will, perhaps,
drop into a sleep, and be well when you awake again." Her mamma took
her hand and led her up stairs, and Frances knew very well it was in
vain to make any objection, as her mamma always made a point of
obedience. The medicine was administered, although for some time
Frances refused to look at it. When she laid down, her mamma placed
the pillow high under her head, and, drawing the curtain to shade the
light, left the room that she might be perfectly quiet. And when she
returned to the drawing-room, she inquired of the other children what
they had been doing, and received a full account of the feast, and
the bird's nest, and all the little circumstances of each.

It was time to resume their studies, and, except that Frances was
not in her usual place, all things proceeded as before. When the
lessons were finished, they entreated their mamma to go with them,
and see the bird's nest."

"It is _so_ pretty, mamma!" said Anne; "and they know when the
mother comes, and they take what she puts into their mouths."

"We will first inquire after Frances," she answered; "if she is well
enough, she can accompany us."

"I will run up, if you will be putting on your bonnet and shawl,
mamma."

"Very well, I hope you will find her recovered, we will wait your
return."

Anne soon returned,--"She is gone! I do not see her anywhere!"

"Gone! In perhaps we shall find her at play in the garden."

In this expectation they all went out, and as they drew near the
spot where the nest was, they saw Frances looking very eagerly into
the nest, and seeming to be in some agitation, then she threw
something out of her hand, and ran away as if wanting not to be seen.

"She is about some mischief," William said, and ran forward to the
nest. But what was his grief to see one of the little birds dead on
the ground, two others in the nest with pieces of bread sticking in
their mouths, gasping, unable to swallow or reject it, and the fourth
with its crop gorged, and slowly moving its little unfledged head
from side to side, struggling in death.

Full of sympathy with the little sufferer, and indignant with
Frances, he exclaimed, "Provoking girl! she has stuffed the little
creatures as she would like to stuff herself; and I believe she has
killed them all."

The lively interest the other children had in the nest, impelled
them to hasten to the spot, and their lamentations, and even tears,
soon flowed.

"William, William, cannot you do anything for them? do try."

"Well, stand still and do not shake my arm--so saying, he began the
attempt, and drew the bread carefully out of the distended mouths of
the two.

"Now the other! the other, William!"

"That I cannot help," he answered: "see! she has forced it down, and
we cannot get it back again; it is dying now."

Anne picked up the dead one from off the ground, and stroking it
with her forefinger, "Poor little thing!" she said, "was she so cruel
to you!"

It was not long before they heard a rustling in the tree near the
place, and then a chirp of fright and distress. "Ah!" said their
mamma, "there is the mother! poor things, we will go a little
distance to let her come to the nest; perhaps she will be able to
save the two."

They all withdrew, and the little parent bird was soon on her nest,
fluttering and chirping to awaken the dead and dying little ones,
till at length she sorrowfully brooded down on her nest, and spread
her wings over them, occasionally chirping as if to solicit an answer
from her little brood.

"Oh!" said Mary, bursting into tears, "I cannot bear it! cruel
Frances, to be so unkind to the little birds!"

"Go and find Frances," said their mamma, "and bring her to me."

"I will go," William answered, "I think I know where she will hide
herself."

It was not long before William returned, leading Frances, who very
reluctantly yielded to accompany him.

"Come here," said her mamma, stopping the accusations she saw were
ready to overwhelm the offending little girl; "come here, and let me
talk to you about this sad thing you have done to the little birds.
Do you see what you have done by your ill-judged kindness?"

"Kindness! mamma," they all exclaimed.

"Yes, dear children, she has been very faulty, but I believe she
meant to be kind, and through ignorance did this thing which proves
the death of the birds. _You_ would not have done it, William,
because you have already learnt there is such a thing as a necessary
prudence to deal out your morsels with wisdom, and in a measure
suited to the age and the capacity of the birds, and also that their
food should be of a wholesome kind suitable to their nature. Nothing
of this did Frances know, and it seems she had not learnt wisdom from
the circumstances she had herself so lately fallen into.

"It reminds me of the scripture, which teaches us to profit: 'Open
thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.' These little birds first
attracted your attention by their _open mouths_, which they had
stretched to receive what their poor mother was preparing to put into
them. As one lighted on the edge of their nest, they instinctively
opened their little yellow-edged beaks; she delighted to see them do
so; and they, taking with content what she had provided for them,
with the utmost confidence swallowed it down. She had a bit for every
one of them in turn and they waited patiently until it was given
them. All was well whilst they were nourished with parental
tenderness and prudence, and none other meddled with them, or
ventured to give them other things, which they, being blind, received
and knew not the hand that gave, nor the consequences of eating food
not such as their parent would have provided.

"Here you see Frances, neither prudent nor aware of consequences,
has stuffed these little birds with improper food, both in quality
and quantity. The consequences are fatal; one is dead, another is
dying, and it is very uncertain whether the others also will not die.
She fed them without measure, and their crops and throats were gorged
so as to stop their breathing. They took it greedily, because they
knew not the fatal consequences.

"Frances, you are a greedy girl. You had been suffering for this
offence, and had not the wisdom to leave it to me to apportion your
food. You opened your mouth wide, but you must remember it is not
written that _you_ are to fill it according to your own desires.
'I will fill it,' saith the Lord. He knows what is good for us, and
he will measure his bounty according to his own wisdom."

Frances began to look ashamed and sorrowful.

"I was to you," her mamma continued, "in the affair of the cake,
endeavoring to fulfil this my duty, but you rebelled against my
discretion, and would covet more than was right. You _helped
yourself_, you gorged your stomach. You were cross and peevish,
and ill, and when the medicine had relieved you, as it was designed,
you, without reflection, sallied forth and suffocated the little
birds. You could not feed them as the _mother_ would. You could
not find in the air and on the ground the little insects, and small
worms and little grains which were their proper food, and you should
have left it to their own mother to fill their opened mouths.
_She_ would have made no mistake either in the quality or
quantity _convenient_ for them."

"O," Mary said, "how that reminds me of the scripture in Proverbs
xxx. 8: 'Feed me with food _convenient_ for me.'"

"Yes, my dear girl, it's a scripture of great importance and often
does it impress my mind in combination with the other I mentioned,
Ps. lxxxi. 10: 'Open thy mouth wide, and _I_ will fill it,' in
their spiritual application, when I am providing for you, and
dividing out your portions, and considering what diet is most suited
to your constitution, and limiting the quantity of dainty or rich
luxuries not _convenient_ for you. I am also frequently led to
apply it to myself, and to offer my petition to the Lord that he will
graciously judge for me, both temporally and spiritually to
_fill_ my mouth, and feed me with food _convenient_ for me."

"I think too, mamma, that there is some meaning belonging to this in
our Lord's teaching us to pray, 'Give us this day our daily bread,'
Matt. vi. 11."

"Assuredly, my dear child, and I am rejoiced to find you are led by
this subject to compare spiritual things with spiritual.

"You see how the word of God interprets itself, and we are taught to
go direct to the bounteous hand who giveth liberally, but never
wastefully Our daily bread is sufficient for the day, and we must
wait on him still for the daily bread of the succeeding day; so we
are instructed to open our mouths wide to ask the Lord to fulfil his
promise and to fill them, and to be contented with convenient food."

"O Mamma, you cannot think how many scriptures seem to come to my
mind, and to give me a clearer understanding. You know the manna
which was given in the wilderness, was _convenient_ food when
it was gathered daily as the Lord commanded, but when they laid it
up, you know it was no longer _convenient,_ for it stunk and
bred worms.  Does not this teach us to trust God as well as not to
_disobey _ him?"

"May this ready application of the word of God proceedeth from that
grace, my child, which teaches you, like Job, to esteem the word of
God more than your necessary food, for you will also remember what
our Lord said to the tempter, 'It is written, Man does not live by
_bread alone,_ but _by every word_ that proceeded out of
the mouth of God.' But we are too apt to forget this, and to imagine
that we can provide well for ourselves by fulfilling the desires and
lusts of the flesh, and by so doing, we are likely to be brought to
_forget_ God, the bountiful and wise Supplier of all our wants."

"I remember the text, mamma, which has in it, 'Feed me with food
_convenient_ for me; and in another part, 'lest I be full and
deny thee,' Prov. xxx. 9; and this little bird's nest has helped me
to understand it better."

"May the Holy Spirit engrave it on your heart, for it will often
remind you of the thankful contentedness with which you ought to wait
on the Lord."

"Yes, mamma," William said, "but there is no harm, you know, in
opening the mouth _wide_."

"No, William, certainly no _harm_, for it is a _duty_.
'Open thy mouth wide,' is an injunction of God, but it is immediately
subjoined and strictly said, 'and I will fill it.' Therefore bear in
mind the double instruction. Neither take the filling on yourself,
nor be ready to swallow every crude and unwholesome morsel which the
ignorant or the wicked would present to you. Do you remember a
certain day last week when something happened?"

William looked anxious to recollect what his mamma alluded to, and
in less than a minute he shook his head, and said, "Ah, mamma, that
is too bad, you mean when Mrs. Arnot called, and you were out."

"Yes I do, William; you all opened your mouths wide, and _she_
filled them. Her sweet things did not prove _convenient_ food.
You see, therefore, we should learn to discriminate between a
heavenly Father's provision, and that of a stranger, whose busy
interference may cost you your life. I was not many minutes away from
my little nest, when a stranger came, and, by mistaken kindness made
you all ill.

"Frances, have you never read that scripture: 'Put a knife to thy
throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.'"

Frances cried, and, sobbing, said, "I do not know what it means?"

"What can it mean, my dear Frances, but parallel with those, 'If thy
right eye offend thee, pluck it out if thy right hand offend thee,
cut it off. It is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed,
than, having two hands or two feet, to be cast into everlasting
fire,' Matt. xvvi. 29, 30. ii. 8, 9. It means that spirit which will
sacrifice the lust of the heart, and deny itself, though it should be
a present mortification. The _throat_ of an inordinate or
diseased appetite is to be cut, and its carnal desires crucified."

"Was it not something of this kind that Isaac fell into when he sent
Esau to hunt venison, and make him savory meat, such as his soul
loved? Gen. xxvii. 4."

"Yes, William, and this very thing he desired presented the
temptation by which he was deceived. And you might have mentioned,
too, how Esau himself yielded to his appetite, and sold his
birthright for a mess of pottage, Gen. xxv. 29. When we yield to
these propensities of the flesh, we lay a snare for our own souls,
and expose our weakness to an adversary, ever ready to take advantage
of our infirmity. It is a common fault in children to desire with
greedy appetite such food as is pernicious, and to wish for more than
even a mouth opened wide requires--till at length they learn to lust
after _forbidden_ things. And what does it lead to? Frances, you
began to pick and steal, and your own iniquity chastised you:--you
were sick and ill."

Frances hid her face in her frock.

"Ah mamma," said Anne, "I shall be afraid of wanting anything, as I
used to do; and I hope I shall remember how much better you can feed
me, than I can feed myself."

"I wish I may too," said William. "If Eve had but waited for the
Lord only to fill her mouth, she would not have eaten that which
brought sin and death."

"Tell me, Frances, if you feel the force of all we have learnt from
the little birds, and your own mistaken idea of what would be good
for them?"

Frances did not answer.

"But you know, my child, you were guilty of another fault; when the
medicine was offered, which was likely to do you good,--you
_refused_ to open your mouth, and was long before you would let
me fill it, so you see we must leave it all to the Lord to give us
much or little, bitter or sweet, just as he knows to be
_convenient_ for us."

"Yes," Mary said, "these poor little birds will long teach us a
lesson. We may imitate them to open our mouth wide, but we must be
warned by what happened to them, to let the _Lord_ only fill
them."

"Let us look again at the nest." They approached, and frightened the
mother so, that she flew off.

"See, see! William," said Anne, "the two little things are opening
their mouths again. O how beautiful! let us never meddle with them
any more. Only remember, 'Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.'
Now, Frances, do not cry any more: come, we will bury these little
dead birds."

Frances wiped her eyes, and Anne giving her a kiss, they went away
to do as she proposed. After they had made a little coffin, they put
the two little dead birds into it Then William got a spade, and dug a
grave just large enough to hold the little coffin: and, as he lowered
it into the grave, Mary wiped away the tears which gathered in her
eyes. When William had filled up the grave, they all returned to
their mamma, who said--

"My dear children, do not let us dismiss this interesting subject
without a closer application. My dear Frances, come near to me, and
hear what I have to say."

Frances drew near with some timidity. Conscious of her faults, and
expecting the word of truth to be directed to her heart, she had at
that moment rather have escaped from it. But her mamma, taking her
hands into hers, and sitting down on a garden stool that was nigh,
she felt that the words would be words of love, aid her heart
beginning to soften, the tears were ready to flow, for she knew that
her mamma would speak to her of Jesus and of his blood, which was
shed for sinners.

"Do you know quite well, my child, that among the fruits of the
Spirit enumerated, Gal. v., there is one called TEMPERANCE?"

"Yes, mamma," she replied.

"Are you not also conscious, my dear child, that your desire of
indulging your appetite is quite contrary to this holy fruit?"

"Yes, mamma."

"Then what are you to do in order to overcome the one, and to obtain
the other?"

"I must ask the Lord Jesus to give me the Holy Spirit."

"Yes, my child, to him must you come for all help, and he will not
send you empty away. Here is a subject on which you must indeed open
your mouth wide, in earnest prayer, and wait on the Lord for his
gracious answer. 'Ask, and ye shall receive,' he says, and after
showing how an _earthly_ father will act towards his child that
asks for bread, how does he conclude?"

"He says, 'How much _more_ will your _heavenly_ Father
give the _Holy Spirit_ to them that ask Him!'"

"Will you then, my dear Frances, profit by this gracious
instruction, and will _you_ ask for the Holy Spirit?"

"Yes, mamma, I will try."

"Do you believe the Lord will give you the Holy Spirit when you ask?"

"He _says_ He _will_, mamma."

"That is enough, my child; what the Lord says is yea and amen. It is
written, 'Hath he said, and will he not do it?'"

"Yes, mamma, I know God is _Truth_, He cannot lie."

"But you know also, my dear Frances, when the Holy Spirit is given,
he takes up his abode in the heart, and he _acts_ in the soul,
and will not dwell there without producing his holy fruit; and tell
me now what is the fruit you particularly want to overcome this
sinful desire of appetite which prevails in your heart."

"Is it not _temperance_, mamma?"

"Yes, and if He comes into your heart, he will give it you, and
moreover teach you to _repent_ of your sins; for consider, my
Frances, sin is an offence against him, and needs to be repented of.
Do you repent?"

"I am very sorry, mamma."

"But repentance is more than sorrow; it will make you ashamed before
God, and make you feel yourself vile; and it will also make you
carefully watchful against the temptation; it will make you anxious
to quit the sin, and clear your soul from its power; it will make you
indignant against it, and urge you to seek that strength from the
Spirit, which will resist the sin, and overcome it. When, therefore,
you ask for the Holy Spirit, be _willing_ that the Lord should
_fill_ you. Be ready to _exercise_ the mighty gift for
_all_ his offices, to convict you of sin, to lead you to true
expectations, and to strengthen you to overcome your sin, giving you
that grace which is specially opposed to the leading sin of your
heart."

"I wish I had this gift; for my sin makes me very unhappy: I know it
is wrong."

"Do not stop in _wishes_, dear child, go and _pray_;
'_Ask_, and ye shall receive.' 'Open your mouth wide' in the
full utterance of all your distress, and of all you desire; pray for
what you _want, name_ it; pray for _repentance_, and for
_temperance_. Pray that the _lust of your appetite_ may be
_crucified_, and pray that the blood of Jesus, the Lamb of God
who taketh away sin, may be sprinkled upon your guilty soul, and
cleanse it from all sin. He giveth liberally, and upbraideth not. He
is angry only when we neglect his promises and his gifts.

"It is not long since, dear Mary, that you and I conversed on this
text, 'My people would not hearken to my voice, Israel would none of
me: _so I gave them up to their own heart's lusts_,' Psa. lxxxi.
A dreadful judgment! what would become of _you_, dear Frances,
if you were given up to the dominion of your appetite?"

"But, my dear mamma," Mary said, "do you not remember the end of
that psalm, what a sweet verse there is?"

"Repeat it, dear girl, and let little Frances hear it!"

"'_Had_ they hearkened and obeyed, then should he have fed them
with the finest of the wheat, and with honey out of the rock should I
have satisfied them.'"

"O my children," said their mamma, "here is spiritual food for the
spiritual appetite! You know who is the Bread of Life, and who is the
Rock of our salvation. Turn unto him your whole heart, and though you
feel the burden of the body of this death, you shall soon be able to
thank God, who, through Jesus Christ our Lord, will deliver you."

  "Poor Esau repented too late,
     That once he his birth-right despis'd,
  And sold for a morsel of meat,
    What could not too highly be priz'd.
  How great was his anguish when told,
    The blessing he sought to obtain
  Was gone with the birth-right he sold,
     And none could recall it again!

  He stands as a warning to all,
     Wherever the gospel shall come!
  O hasten and yield to the call,
     While yet for repentance there's room!
  Your season will quickly be past;
     Then hear and obey it to-day,
  Lest when you seek mercy at last,
     The Saviour should frown you away.

  What is it the world can propose?
    A morsel of meat at the best!
  For this are you willing to lose
    A share in the joys of the blest?
  Its pleasures will speedily end,
    Its favor and praise are but breath;
  And what can its profits befriend
    Your soul in the moments of death?

  If Jesus, for these, you despise,
    And sin to the Saviour prefer,
  In vain your entreaties and cries,
    When summon'd to stand at his bar:
  How will you his presence abide?
    What anguish will torture your heart,
  The saints all enthron'd by his side,
    And you be compelled to depart.

  Too often, dear Saviour, have I
    Preferr'd some poor trifle to thee;
  How is it thou dost not deny
    The blessing and birth-right to me?
  No better than Esau I am,
    Though pardon and heaven be mine
  To me belongs nothing but shame,
    The praise and the glory be thine."




I.


The Little Pavior.


"Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and
whether it be right,"--PROVERBS, xx. 11.

Happy the child who is active, intelligent and obliging, and who
takes pleasure in serving those that are about him! Happy above all
is the child, who, fearing and loving the Lord, shows himself thus
zealous and obliging, from a feeling of piety, and a desire to please
God.

Such was Francis, and this we shall soon see, from the following
narrative:

Francis, who was about eight years old, was spending the month of
June with his Grandpapa in the country.

His Grandpapa lived in a pretty house, roofed with slates, and
surrounded with a verandah, in which were seats, and between each
seat, some flower-pots. Jessamine and roses entwined themselves
around the verandah, and adorned it with elegant festoons of flowers.

Behind the house was a yard, where chickens, turkeys, and guinea-
fowls, were kept; and in the front, looking towards the west, was
laid out a fine garden, well provided with evergreens, such as holly,
yew, and pine-trees, and amongst these, also, many birch and ash-
trees flourished.

At the bottom of the garden, which sloped a little, flowed a pure,
but shallow stream, which was crossed by means of a wooden bridge,
surrounded with elders and large hazels.

This was a delightful dwelling-place, but those who inhabited it,
were still more delightful than the beautiful garden or the smiling
groves. For it was the beauty of piety which was found in them,
united with that gentleness and amiability of character, that humble
spirit of cordiality, which our Saviour enjoins upon all his true
disciples.

These inhabitants, so good and so amiable, were the Grandpapa and
Grandmamma of Francis, and their domestics, who, with them served the
Lord, and lived in that peace, which His Spirit gives to such as
delight in His Word.

This dear Grandpapa then, since he was pious, was charitable, and
took particular pleasure in visiting his aged neighbors, especially
the poor peasants, to whom he always carried comfort and
encouragement from that gracious God, with whom he himself daily
endeavored more and more to live. He used generally to pay these
charitable visits in the middle of the day; after having read the
Holy Bible for the second time, in a retired summer-house in the
garden, near which a little gate opened upon a footpath, which,
passing through the orchard, led to the village.

Francis, who was already acquainted with his Grandpapa's habits,
never came to disturb him while he was in the summer-house, and
whenever he saw his Grandpapa going out of the little gate he took
good care not to follow him.

But in about an hour or two, he would go to meet him, sometimes
towards the road, at others, as far as the bridge over the stream;--
his Grandmamma was never uneasy, because she knew that Francis was a
prudent boy, and that God watched over him, as one of the lambs of
the good shepherd.

Grandpapa then, had just finished reading; he had put on his hat and
taken his cane, and had gone out through the gate.

Francis, who was sitting before the house, under the pretty green
verandah, saw him pass behind the garden hedge, and was already
thinking of going to meet him at the end of an hour, when to his
great surprise he saw his Grandpapa pass again behind the hedge, and
then enter the garden through the little gate, walking apparently
with much difficulty.

"What is the matter, dear Grandpapa?" cried Francis, springing
towards the garden.--"Oh! how you are covered with mud! It must be
that rude Driver who wanted to fawn upon you. He has always such
dirty paws."

"You must not scold Driver, but _me_," mildly replied his
Grandpapa, "for I incautiously, and most imprudently, walked upon
that part of the path which has been inundated by the water from the
fountain."

"Grandpapa, did you fall?" asked Francis, quite alarmed.

"Yes my boy, your Grandfather fell like a heedless man.... But
thanks to our gracious God, who ever takes care of us! it was
nothing; I was only a little frightened. You see, Francis, you must
not forget that we only stand, because God supports us."

So saying, his Grandfather entered the house, and with the same
serenity related his accident to his wife, who bestowed every
attention upon him.

Whilst his Grandfather was resting himself, and Francis had
ascertained that he had not suffered much, he hastened to look at the
spot where his kind Grandpapa had slipped and fallen. It was a little
bit of the path, perhaps about three paces long, covered with the
water which was issuing from the fountain, and which being of clay,
had become very slippery.

The trench round the fountain had been already deepened more than
once, in order to turn its course from that part of the orchard, but
as the ground was rather low, the water always returned.

Francis examined all this, and tried to find out what could be done
to remedy the evil, in a more durable manner.

"_I know!_" he cried at last. "I must make a pavement here, a
little higher than the path is at present!"

"Come! cheer up! 'Where there's a will,' says Grandpapa, 'with God's
help there's a way.' To work, to work! 'For he who does nothing
makes little progress,' says also, my dear Grandpapa."

It may be here well asked, how a little child, eight years of age,
could even conceive such a project, and much more how he could have
had sufficient strength to accomplish it.

But Francis was not a thoughtless or inattentive child; on the
contrary he observed on his way _to_, and _from_ School,
and when he walked out with his Papa, everything that workmen did.

It was thus that he had often noticed how the Paviors first laid
down the stones, and then pressed them together, and as we shall soon
see, he found no difficulty in what he was going to attempt.

"First and foremost," said he, "the tools!" and immediately he ran
off to look for a little wheel-barrow which his Grandpapa had made
for him; with the spade, the trowel, and the iron rake, which were at
his disposal.

When the tools were collected, Francis, having taken off his jacket,
traced out the portion to be paved.

"Now," said he, "I must take away two or three inches of earth, that
the stones may fit in."

He then took away the earth, and piled it up on the upper side of
the path, in order to compel the water to pass by the drain.

"Now," he said, "I must find some sand; where is there any? Oh!
behind the hen-house; the masons, who plastered the walls of the yard
over again, have left a large heap of it there"--and then he quickly
ran with his wheelbarrow, once, twice, and even three times, and soon
had as much as was necessary. He spread it out, and arranged it, and
then pronounced the great word of all his work, "_Stones!_ No
stones, no pavement! I must have at least fifty of them!" He ran
about, searched and gathered, near the fountain, round the house, and
along the wall of the yard, and soon brought back four wheelbarrows
full of nice stones, well shaped, and not too large.

But there were not enough, for he was obliged to put five or six
abreast. Where are there any more to be found?

"In the brook," cried he! "It is rather far off, but I shall soon be
there!" And indeed in about a quarter of an hour, he had collected
all the proper materials.

Then should he have been seen at work! The trowel in his right hand,
a stone in his left; the sand which he placed between each stone, and
the blows which forced it down, these things succeeded each other
rapidly, and were often repeated; till at length, at the end of the
third hour, the slippery bit of foot-path was no longer in existence,
but in its stead was to be seen a pavement slightly raised, which
could never be wetted by the overflowing of the fountain.

"That will not do well," said Francis, when he had finished, and was
walking over the pavement; "it is uneven, Grandpapa will hurt his
feet upon it." And so saying, he ran to the woodhouse in the yard,
and returned, bending under the weight of the mallet, with which
Thomas used to strike the axe and wedges, when he split the large
pieces of oak.

"Here is _my_ rammer," said Francis, laughing, as he thought of
those used by the paviors; and holding the mallet perpendicularly, he
struck with the butt-end, first one stone, and then another, until at
length the pavement was completed! It was solid, even and clean, and
Francis, repeating in truth, "Where there's a will, with God's help,
there's a way," gave thanks in his heart to that good heavenly
Father, who gave him both the idea and the will to do this act of
filial love, and enabled him to accomplish it.

Some sand and a few stones remained; Francis took them up and
carried them back near to the house. Then he cleared away the
rubbish, and having put on his coat again, returned joyfully to
replace his tools in the green-house.

All this was done after dinner, between the hours of three and six.
The evening passed quietly away. Grandpapa had not received any
bruises, and he could not sufficiently thank the Good shepherd, the
Lord Jesus, who had, as it were, "carried him in his arms," and "kept
all his bones."

Grandmamma joined in his praises and thanksgivings, and these two
faithful servants blessed the Lord together, whose mercies are over
all his works.

"To-morrow, please God," said Grandpapa to Francis, "I shall go and
see old George. He must have expected me to-day! But be assured, my
dear Francis, that your Grandpapa will walk no more like a giddy
child; and if the path is still slippery, I shall place my foot
prudently upon it."

Francis said he hoped the path would be better; and however that
might be, that the Lord would preserve him thenceforth from slipping,
and above all, from falling.

Grandpapa made Francis read the Bible as usual to the whole
household. He spoke piously of God's paternal care for our bodies as
well as for our souls, and in his prayer he gave abundant thanks to
the Saviour who had so graciously preserved him.

The morrow came. Grandpapa had quite recovered his accident of the
preceding day, and after reading in the summer-house, he got up to go
and see old George.

Francis, who was observing him from beneath the verandah, no sooner
saw him come near the little gate, than he ran round the house to
hide himself behind a hazel bush, a short distance from the pavement,
in order to see what his Grandpapa would do.

Grandpapa walked on towards the orchard, and as soon as he set his
foot on the path, he prepared to proceed very carefully. He took
three or four steps, and then suddenly stopped, and raising his
hands, exclaimed, a "pavement! a pavement here already! How does this
happen? Who could have done this? It must be my faithful Thomas!"--he
continued--"I must thank him for it;" and he called out loudly,
"Thomas! Thomas!" Thomas, who was in the cow-house, heard his voice,
and ran to him in alarm.

"Have you tumbled again, sir," he asked anxiously?

"On the contrary," said Grandpapa, "thanks to _you_, Thomas,
for having made this good substantial pavement so quickly and so
well; it is really excellent," said he, stamping upon it with his
foot, and walking over it in every direction. "It is solid, and even,
and slopes on either side! I am very much obliged to you, Thomas."

"Alas! sir," said the man, "it is not I who did it--how vexed I am
that I did not think of it what stupidity!"...

"Who is it then?" asked Grandpapa, "for this has been done since
yesterday, and surely these stones are not mushrooms! Who could have
thought of this?"

"I think I know who it is, sir," answered Thomas, "for yesterday in
the afternoon I saw master Francis going down to the brook with his
wheelbarrow. I could not think what it was for, but now I understand."

"Francis! did you say," exclaimed Grandpapa; "how could that child
have done it even if he had wished? Are these stones only nuts, that
_that_ dear boy's little hands could have been able to knock
them into the ground?"

"Do you wish, sir, that I should look for him and bring him here?"
asked Thomas.

Francis could no longer remain concealed. He ran from behind the
bush, and threw himself into his Grandpapa's arms; saying, "Dear
Grandpapa, how happy I am to have been able to succeed."

"It is _you_ then, indeed, my son!" cried Grandpapa, as he shed
tears of joy. "God bless your filial piety towards me! May He return
you two-fold all the good you have done my heart. But how did you
manage?"

"You have often told me, dear Grandpapa, that 'Where there's a will,
with the help of God, there's a way,' and I prayed to God, and was
able to do it."

"Well then, dear Francis," said Grandpapa, solemnly, "I promise you,
that every day of my life, as long as I shall walk here below, when I
pass over this pavement, which your affection has made for me, I will
say to God 'O Lord, prevent Francis from falling in his way! May thy
goodness _pave_ for him the path of life, whenever it becomes
slippery.'"

Francis understood, and respectfully received this blessing; and
whilst his Grand father paid his visit, the little pavior went and
told his Grandmamma, what he had been able to do, and how God had
already blessed him for it.




II.


The Silver Knife.


"Then said Jesus unto him: Go and do thou likewise."--LUKE, x. 37.

_Mary_.--(After having searched about the dining-room,) "Who
has seen my silver knife? William, John, Lucy, you who are amusing
yourselves in the garden, have you seen my silver knife?"

_William_.--(Going up to the window, and in a sententious tone
of voice,) "'Disorder,' says an ancient writer, 'occasions sorrow,
and negligence, blame.'"

_Mary_.--"Admirable! But that does not apply to _me_, for
it is scarcely an hour since I laid my knife on this very table,
which certainly belongs to us."

_Lucy_.--"Are you quite sure of it, Mary!"

_Mary_--"Yes, indeed, there is no doubt of it, for Sophy asked
me to give her a pretty little red apple, as usual, before going to
school. I went immediately to the fruit-room for it, and as it was a
little spoiled, I cleaned it with my silver knife, which I laid on
this table, whilst I was kissing her. I am therefore quite sure of it."

_John_.--(Frowning,)--"For my part, I confess, I don't like all
these strangers who come about the house. For instance, that little
_Jane_, who sells lilies of the valley, and strawberries, and so
on--I very much distrust her sullen look; and who knows, if
perhaps...?"

_Lucy_--"Fie, fie, brother, to suspect that poor little modest
gentle child, who supports her sick mother by her own industry! Oh!
it is very wrong, John!"

"What is the matter?" said their Father, who had heard this dispute
from the garden, where he was reading under the shade of a tree.

Mary related her story, and finished by saying,--"Well, if it be
God's will, So-be-it! My beautiful knife is lost!"

"Yes, my dear girl," answered her father, "What God wills, is always
best. But it is His will that I should watch over, my household. I
must therefore know what has become of your knife. Did you ask
Elizabeth if she had taken care of it, when she cleaned the room?"

Mary ran to the kitchen, and enquired of Elizabeth.

"Your silver knife! Miss," said the servant, coloring. "Have you
lost that beautiful knife, which was given you on your birthday?"

"I ask you, if you have taken care of it," answered Mary. "I laid it
this morning upon the table in the dining-room, near the window."

_Elizabeth_.--(with astonishment,)--Near the window! Oh!--I
know where it is, now. About half an hour ago, when I went into the
dining-room, to ... put ... down ... some plates, I saw the great
magpie, which builds its nest up in the large elm-tree, at the end of
the garden, sitting on the window-ledge. It flew away as soon as it
saw me; but it had something white and shining in its beak. Oh! yes,
I remember now! it was the silver knife!"

"The magpie," exclaimed Mary, "with my knife in its beak!"

"Oh! Miss," replied Elizabeth, "there is no thief like a magpie.
When I was at home, one of their nests was once pulled down, and nine
pieces of silver were found in it, and a whole necklace of pearls!
Oh! magpies are terrible birds, and you may be sure that your knife
is in their nest."

Mary returned to her father in the garden, and related to him all
that Elizabeth had said, but added, "For my part, I don't believe a
word of it!"

"And why not?" exclaimed John, sharply, "Elizabeth is quite right!
Nothing steals like a magpie. Everybody says so. Come! let us to
work! A ladder, a cord, and a long stick! Down with the nest!--Papa,
will you allow me to climb the tree!"

_Lucy._--(Holding John by the arm.)--"Brother, how _can_
you think of it? The elm is more than eighty feet high! Papa, I beg
of you, not to allow it."

_Father_.--(Calmly.)--"No one shall get up the tree and risk
his life, for a thing which certainly is not there."

"There is no thief like a magpie," repeated John, looking at the
nest, which might be seen through the higher branches of the tree;
"but I confess it would not be easy to reach it. These branches are
very long and very slender!"

William, who had said nothing as yet, but had been walking backwards
and forwards, with his head down, and his hands in his pockets,
turned suddenly round to Mary, and said, "I have been thinking we can
soon know if your knife is in the nest. We only want a polemoscope
for that. Hurrah! long live optics!"

"A lemoscope!" said Lucy, "What is that? Is it a long hook?"

_William_.--(Smiling rather contemptuously.) "Poor sister! What
ignorance!"

_Father_--"William, speak kindly--tell your sister what this
instrument is, and what you want to do with it."

_William._--(Scientifically.)--"In war, when a besieged
garrison wishes to know all the movements of the enemy, without being
seen, they erect behind the walls, or the ramparts, a mirror, placed
at the end of a long pole, and inclining towards the country. You
understand, then, that everything that takes place outside, is
reflected in the mirror, and can be seen from within, or in another
mirror placed at the bottom of the pole, and sloping inwards. This,
Lucy, is what is called a polemoscope--that is to say, an instrument
for observations in war."

"Thank you, William," said Lucy, "but what are you going to do with
it?"

_William._--"The thing is quite plain. I am going to fasten a
small mirror on a light pitchfork, inclining it downwards. This
pitchfork I shall fasten firmly to pole; then some one will climb,
dear papa, without any danger, as far as the strong branches reach;
from thence he can draw up the pole and its mirror, with a long
string, and by raising the mirror above the nest, he will enable us
to see, with the aid of your telescope, all that the nest contains.
This is my plan, and I think it is not so bad!"

_Father_.--(Smiling.)--"Dear William. It is a great pity,
however, that you are so blind. There are two things you have not
considered. One is, that the branches which cover the nest, are very
thick and tufted. Therefore, your mirror, even if it reached their
summit, would only reflect the leaves, and consequently neither the
nest nor the knife; and the other thing which you do not observe, is
this, that the magpies, by an admirable instinct, which God has given
them, build their nests, not like a basin, as you supposed, but in
the form of a ball; so that the nest is covered with a vaulted roof,
formed of sticks closely interwoven, which shelters the bird and its
brood from bad weather, and above all, from the cruel claw of the
kite or hawk."

"I am much obliged to you, dear papa," said William. "What a pity,"
he added, with a sigh; "for my plan would otherwise have been
infallible."

"Let us seek a better one," said their father. "Mary, go and see if
you have not left your knife in the fruit-room. Perhaps it was
yesterday, that you peeled the apple for Sophy."

"I will do so," said Mary, and she went into the house for the key
of the fruit-room.

She soon returned, exclaiming, "The key is not in its place, and I
put it there this morning."

"Miss Mary is mistaken," said Elizabeth, coming out of the kitchen;
"I see the key in the door."

"Papa," said Mary, "I recollect, when I put the key in the cupboard,
this very morning, Sophy looked at it, and said, 'It is certainly the
prettiest key on the bunch.'"

"Let us go to the fruit-room," said the father, directing his steps
thither. "I fear this will prove a sad affair."

"What is this, too," cried Mary, examining the shelves, "the big key
of the cellar here Where did it come from? And this key covered with
cheese, from one end to the other!"

"Let us go to the cellar!" said the father. "I believe we shall find
out more there than we can here."

They opened the door, and found the brilliant silver knife, not in
the magpie's nest, but sticking in a cheese, from which a large
portion appeared to have been detached.

The children were amazed, and their Father much grieved.

"Here is your knife, Mary," said John, who first saw it. "Certainly,
there is no need of a looking-glass to find it."

"You must not joke, my children," said the Father; "this is a very
sad business. I am thankful it has taken place in the absence of your
dear Mother, and I forbid you writing her anything about it. This
must concern me, and me alone."

_William_.--(Indignantly.)--"It amounts to a theft, a falsehood!"

_Lucy_.--"But who has done it, William? Did not Mary leave her
knife here?"

_William_.--"Who saw the Magpie carrying it off in his beak?"

_Mary_.--(To Lucy.)--"Do you not understand that it was poor
Elizabeth, who came here with my knife, which she took off the table
where I left it, and who, after having cut a piece of cheese with it,
went to the fruit-room, no doubt to steal some apples also."

_John_.--(Angrily.)--"Papa, Elizabeth has acted deceitfully--
will you allow her to remain with you? One of the Psalms, the 101st,
I think, says, 'He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my
house.'"

_The Father_.--(Gravely.) "It is said also in Holy Scriptures,
my son, that 'mercy rejoiceth against judgment,' and perhaps, John,
if any of us, had been brought up like poor Elizabeth, we might have
done even worse than this."

"I am quite vexed," said Mary, "Oh! why did I not take more care of
that wretched knife!"

_William._--"But, Mary, it was not your knife left upon the
table, which tempted her to take two keys secretly out of the
cupboard, and which made them the instruments of this theft. For
Papa," continued he, "it _is_ a theft, and a shameful one too!
These stolen keys are no small matter!"

_The Father_.--(Calmly.)--"I know it my children, and it
grieves my heart, that one of my servants, who daily hears the word
of God read and explained, should so far have forgotten the fear of
the Lord! This is what saddens me, and wounds me deeply."

_Lucy_.--"Elizabeth has not long been our cook, and probably
she never heard the word of God before she came here. Poor girl I she
is perhaps very unhappy now,--and I am sure, she will repent and turn
to God."

_The Father_.-"That is right, my dear child, I rejoice to hear
you plead the cause of the unhappy, and even of the guilty, for as I
said before, 'mercy rejoiceth against judgment.'"

"I was therefore wrong," said John, "and I confess it ... for
certainly I scarcely pitied her.... I did wrong I and now I think as
Lucy does."

"And I also," said William, "'Clemency governs courage,' says a
Grecian historian, and ..."

_The Father._--(Very seriously.)--"But, my dear William, what
have the pagans of old and their morals to do here? My son, you know
it is the word of God which rules our conduct, and which commands us
to suffer and to forgive."

_Lucy._--"Papa, will you allow me to repeat a passage, which I
learnt by heart last Sunday?"

_The Father._--"Repeat it, Lucy, and may God bless it to us all!"

_Lucy._--"'Execute true judgment, and show mercy and compassion
every man to his brother.' It is in the seventh chapter of Zechariah."

"I too, was wrong then," said William, "very wrong! for it is the
wisdom of God alone, that enlightens us."

"True, my son," said his Father, "may God always remind you of this.
I am going to speak to Elizabeth," he added, "as for you, my
children, do not say a word about it, and above all, bless the Lord,
for having made known to you his grace and holy law. Pray to him
together, that my words may have their due effect upon the mind of
this poor guilty creature."

The Father went out to look for Elizabeth, and the children repaired
to William's room, who, having knelt down with them, prayed to the
Lord to take pity upon her, and to touch her heart, and he ended the
prayer in the following words:--"In thy great wisdom, O Most Gracious
God, and in thine infinite compassion, through Jesus Christ, grant
unto each of us true repentance, and a sincere change of heart, and
may this affliction be turned to the glory of our Saviour Jesus."

The children then returned to their several occupations, and not one
of them ever thought of judging Elizabeth, or even speaking harshly
of her.

We may add, that the exhortation of her charitable master, produced
sincere penitence in Elizabeth, and that the poor girl was not sent
out of the house; for "mercy pleaded against judgment."

It is thus that God deals with us! Oh! which of us can tell how
often he has received pardon from the Lord!




III.


The Modern Dorcas


"The night cometh when no man can work."--JOHN, ix.

Oh! my sister! my sister! What a lesson may we learn from the death
of our dear Amelia! She was but sixteen years old like myself, and
only two years older than you are, but how much had she done for the
Lord. I saw and heard her, when Jesus came to call her to himself; I
was in the churchyard when they placed her body in the grave! Oh!
what a solemn warning! and now I feel humbled before God, and I pray
Him to pour into my heart the same Spirit which He bestowed so
abundantly upon our friend, as well as that lively faith, which
although Amelia 'is dead, yet speaketh,' as it is said of Abel, and
which shall speak through her for many years to come!

I wrote to you less than a fortnight ago, that Amelia was unwell;
but how little I then thought it was her last illness! Oh! how
uncertain our life is, dear Esther, and how much wiser we should be
if we would only believe so!

On the seventh day of her illness, her mother said to me, "Anna,
your friend is going to leave us; the danger of her disorder
increases every hour, and we must give her up to God!"

I wept much and bitterly, and could not at first believe it; but
when I was alone with Amelia, the next day, she said to me, with that
calm peacefulness which never left her, "I am going away from this
world, Anna; yes, dear Anna, I am going to depart; I feel it, and ...
I am preparing myself for it!"

I tried to turn away her thoughts from this subject; I told her that
she was mistaken, and that God would certainly restore her; but she
stopped me with firmness of manner, and said, "Do you envy my
happiness, Anna? Do you wish to prevent me from going to my Heavenly
home, to my Saviour, unto his light and glory?" The entrance of her
father and the Doctor prevented my reply, and I left the room in tears.

"You must not cry," said her mother to me. "We must pray, and above
all, seek profit from the occasion. The time is short! Her end is at
hand! But," added this servant of Christ, "_that_ end is the
beginning of a life which shall have no end!"

Three more days passed away. On the fourth, we had some faint hope,
but the following day, all had vanished, and towards evening, Amelia
declared, that the Lord was about to take her.

"Yes, my dear parents, my excellent father and mother," she said,
with a beam of heavenly joy on her countenance, "I am about to leave
you; but I do not leave my God, for I am going to see Him, 'face to
face.'"

"My dear parents," she continued, affectionately, "rejoice at my
departure; I am going to Heaven a little before you, it is true, but
it is _only before you_, and you know it; and the Apostle says,
that, 'to be with Christ is far better.'"

I was present, Esther, and was crying.

"Why do you cry, Anna?" she said, "Are you sorry to see me go to my
Father's house?"

"But, Amelia, _I_ lose you; we all lose you; and ..."

"I do not like to hear you say that, Anna; do not repeat it, and do
not think of it. Our Saviour says that, 'He who believes on Him shall
not see death;' and I am certain, that my soul is about to join those
of His saints who have already departed this life, for His grace has
also justified _me._"

"Ah!" said her aunt, who had not left her bedside for two days, "you
have always done the will of God, dear Amelia; you are therefore sure
of going to Him."

"Dear aunt," she replied, with sorrow on her countenance, "I assure
you that you grieve me. I have been during the whole of my life, but
a poor sinner, and have by no means done what you say; but.... God
Himself has pardoned me, and it is only, my dear aunt, because the
blood of Jesus has washed away my sins, that I shall see God."

It was thus, my sister, that Amelia spoke at intervals almost the
whole night. Her voice at length became weaker; and towards morning,
after a slight drowsiness, she said to her father, "Papa, embrace
your child once more." She then turned to her mother, and said, "My
dear mamma, embrace me also, and ... may Jesus comfort you all!"

A few minutes after, our darling friend fell gradually asleep, and
her last breath died away like the expiring flame of a candle. She
experienced nothing of the agony of death. Truly, dear Esther, Amelia
knew not what death was!

But oh! how I have myself suffered! and how difficult it is to tear
one's self thus forever here below, from such a friend as she was!

Nevertheless, my sister, God knows we have not dared to murmur. I
wish you had heard the prayer that Amelia's father offered up, when
his daughter had ceased to breathe! Oh! it was the spirit of
consolation itself which spoke! And since that solemn hour, what
piety, what strength and peace of mind, Amelia's mother his
displayed! I am sure you would have said, that the Lord was present,
and that He was telling us with His own voice: "Amelia triumphs--she
is in _My_ glory!"

I wished to be in the churchyard when our friend, or rather, when
her body of dust, was committed to the grave. There were many persons
present, but especially poor people; some old men, and several
children, came to take their last leave of her.

A grey-headed and feeble old man was standing near the grave,
leaning with his two hands on a staff, and with his head depressed.
He wept aloud, when the clergyman mentioned Amelia's name, as he
prayed, and gave thanks to God. He then stooped down, and taking a
little earth in his hand, said, as he scattered it over the coffin:
"Sleep, sweet messenger of consolation! Sleep, until He whom thy lips
first proclaimed to me, calls thee to arise!" And with this, he burst
into tears, as they filled the grave.

When all was finished, and the funeral procession had departed, the
poor people who were present approached the grave, sobbing, and
repeating, "Sweet messenger of goodness! Our kind friend, our
_true_ mother!" And two or three of the children placed upon her
grave nosegays of box and white flowers.

"Alas," said a young girl, "she will never hear me read the Bible
again, nor instruct me how to live!"

Another cried loudly, "Who will now come to visit my sick mother,
and read the Bible to her, and bring her comfort and assistance."

And there was a father, a poor workman, with two little boys, who,
holding his children by the hand, came and placed himself near the
spot where the head of Amelia was laid, saying to them, "Here, my
poor children, under this sod, rests that sweet countenance which
used to smile upon you, as if she had been your mother! Her lips have
often told you, that you were not orphans, and that God was better to
you than a parent.... Well, my dear children, let us remember what
she used to say: 'God has not forgotten us, and He will sustain us!'"

I was with my brother, who himself wept with all his heart, to see
the sincere grief of these poor people. He whispered to me, "I have a
great mind to speak to them, and ask them what Amelia used to do for
them." I had the same wish; so we approached a group which surrounded
the grave, and asked them when they had become acquainted with Amelia.

"For my part," answered the old man, already spoken of, "this
messenger of peace visited me two years ago, for the first time. I
lived near a family to whom she had brought some worsted stockings,
for winter was just setting in, and so my neighbor mentioned me to
her, as a poor infirm old man. She desired to see me, and had she
been my own daughter, she could never have shown me more respect and
kindness! She procured me a warm quilt that same evening, and on the
morrow, towards the middle of the day, she came with her excellent
mother to pay me a long visit.

"You must know, sir," continued the old man, to my brother, "I was
then very ignorant, or rather my heart was hard and proud towards
God. I had no Bible, and did not care about one. Well, this dear
young lady not only brought me one, with her own hands, but came to
read and explain it to me, with great patience, at least three times
a week, during the first twelve months.

"God took pity on me," added the old man, in a low voice, "and last
year I began better to understand the full pardon which is in Christ
Jesus, and was even able to pray with Miss Amelia.

"She used sometimes to call me, 'My old father,' but it was I who
ought to have called _her_ the _mother_, the true mother of
my soul.

"Just one month ago, she came to me for the last time; she gave me
with a sweet smile, these worsted gloves, which she had knitted
herself, and then recommended me with much respect and kindness to
thank our Lord, who sent them me! This was the last of that sweet
lady's charities to me!"...

Upon this, the old man turned away weeping, and as he walked slowly
on, he frequently looked back upon the newly-covered grave.

"The same thing happened to me," said the workman. "The mother of
these two little children died ten months ago; we were in want of
everything, then, and I knew not even how to dress these children.
Believe me, Miss," he added, addressing me with feeling, "when the
mother is gone, all is gone!... but our gracious God did not forsake
us, for He sent us his angel; I say His angel, although she is at
present much more than an angel!... Is she not indeed a child of God
in heaven? ... but, in short, she clothed these two little ones, and I
am sure she did not spare herself in working for them; the clothes
they now wear were made chiefly by that dear young lady's hands. Then
she used to come and visit us; she often made my two children go to
her house, and always gave them good advice. She also sent them to
school, and although it was certainly her mother who paid for them,
yet it was Miss Amelia who taught them to read at home, and who,
almost every Sunday, made them repeat their Bible lessons.

"Ah, Miss," he continued, "all that that dear young lady did for us,
for our souls as well as for our bodies, will only be known in
heaven, and at the last day. For my part, and I say it here over her
grave, and in the presence of God, I am certain, that when the Lord
Jesus shall raise us all up again, the works of Miss Amelia will
follow her, and we shall then see that while upon earth she served
God with all her heart.

"No," he added, as he wiped away the tears from his children's eyes,
"I would not wish her to return from the glory which she now enjoys,
at the same time I cannot conceal from you, that my heart mourns for
her, and that I know we have lost our consolation, our benefactress,
our faithful friend!"

"Who has not lost one?" exclaimed a poor woman, at whose side stood
the little girls who had planted the flowers; "I know very well that
Miss Amelia's mother will take her place, she is so good and kind!
but it was no little joy to receive a visit from that sweet and
amiable young lady, so good, so pious, and so full of joy. Oh! what
should I have done with my husband, so long confined to his bed, if
this messenger of goodness had not procured work for me, and
recommended me to the ladies who now employ me. And then again, what
were we, until Miss Amelia spoke to us? How much she had to put up
with when I refused to read the Holy Scriptures! and yet she was
never weary of me. Oh! no; she came day after day, to exhort and to
teach me, and blessed be God, we begin now to know something of what
the Saviour has done for us.

"And," added she, drawing the little girl towards her, "I shall go
on with my dear children, reading and learning that word of God,
which was Miss Amelia's greatest joy.

"Come, come, my friends," she said, in a persuasive tone, "_we_
must also die, and be put each in his turn, under this ground; but as
our benefactress is not dead ... (no, she is not dead, for the Lord
has said it!)--so also shall not we die, if we follow in her steps."

The poor woman then wished us good day, and moved away with her
children. We all walked on together, still speaking of Amelia. My
brother took the names and addresses of many of the poor people, with
whom he had just been conversing, and spoke a few words to them of
comfort and encouragement.

As soon as we were alone, he showed me the list of names, at the
head of which was that of the old man, and he said, "Here is a
blessed inheritance which Amelia has left us. She has done as Dorcas
did: her hands have clothed the poor, and her lips have spoken
comfort to them. Dear Anna, Amelia was not older than we are; let us
remember this, for we know not when the Lord shall call us."

How wise and pious this dear brother is! We have already been able
to pay together, two of Amelia's visits. Her mother, to whom we
related all we had heard, gave us further particulars of what the
pious and indefatigable Amelia used to do. Ah Esther, her religion
was not mere "lip-service." The Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ
assisted her, and she might have said with truth, I show "my faith by
my works."

Let us take courage, then, my dear and kind sister! we lament our
loss in Amelia's death, but on her own account I lament her not. I
can only contemplate her in the presence of God, and of her Saviour,
and I rejoice to think of her delight when she entered the region of
heaven. How beautiful it must be, Esther, to behold the glory of that
heaven! to hear the voices of saints and angels, and to know that God
loves us, and will make us happy forever.

Think, sister, of the meaning of--_forever!_

Amelia's father, whom I saw a few hours ago with her excellent and
pious mother, said to me, in speaking of their darling child, "For my
own joy and comfort I should have wished to have kept her with us;
but, my dear Anna, even if I could have done so, what would have been
all our happiness, compared with that which she now possesses in the
presence of her God."

But do not suppose, my sister, that Amelia, with all her piety, was
less prudent with regard to the things of this world, than faithful
regarding those of heaven. Her mother has shown me her books, and her
different arrangements, all of which indicate that discretion spoken
of in Scripture, carried out in the most minute particulars.

First, as respects order and cleanliness in everything belonging to
her: it would be impossible to imagine a more proper arrangement than
the one she made of each article, both in her wardrobe, her writing-
table, her work-box, and her account-book.

She had not much money to devote to her works of charity, but her
industry made up for her limited means; for instance, in opening the
Bible which she generally made use of, I found in it, four or five
pages written with a great deal of care; and her journal informed her
mother, who read it, of the reason of this circumstance. It runs thus:

"As old Margaret has but one Bible, some of the leaves of which have
been lost, I have given her mine, which is quite complete, and have
taken hers, adding to it some sheets of paper, upon which I have
written the passages which were deficient. Thus I have saved the
expense of a new Bible; and it is the same thing to me."

Amelia's diary is very remarkable; her mother has allowed me to read
many portions of it, and to copy out what relates to her usual manner
of employing each day. I send it to you, dear Esther, and you will
find, as I have done, that the Spirit of God always teaches those who
trust in Him, how precious _time_ is here below. The following
is what our dear friend wrote upon this subject.

"_January 1st_, 1844--Nearly eighteen centuries, and a half
have passed away, since our Saviour took upon himself the form of
human flesh for our salvation. Those years seemed long as they
succeeded each other, but now that they are gone, they appear as
nothing.

"Families, and nations, and the mighty generations of mankind,
which, in times gone by, peopled the earth, have all passed away.
Nothing remains of them here below!

"But such is not the case in heaven,--I should rather say,--in
eternity. There, all these nations still exist, no man can be absent,
but must appear before the Sovereign Judge, to answer for the use
which he has made of his time.

"How short that time is! Where are the years that David lived, and
where are those which Methuselah passed in this world? their whole
duration seems, at this distance, in the words of St. James, 'Even as
a vapor that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.'

"It will therefore be the same with me. I know not how long I shall
live here below, perhaps I shall see but a portion of this year, and
shall enter into glory before it is concluded; or perhaps I shall yet
see many more years. This the Lord knows, and I ought not to consider
that such knowledge would be of any importance to me, since that
which constitutes my _life_, is not its length or duration, but
the use which is made of it.

"It is to Jesus, then, that all my life must be devoted, without him
I can do nothing. 'My life is hid with Christ in God.' He has 'bought
me with a price,' I ought, therefore, 'to glorify God in my body, and
in my spirit, which are God's.'

"Truly to live is to know, that my thoughts and actions are all
directed to the glory of Jesus, whether upon earth by faith and hope,
or in heaven by the sight and by the glory of God.

"But here below, I have only time at my disposal; that is to say,
days composed of hours or rather, I have in reality but a single day
to make use of. Yesterday is no longer mine, and to-morrow, where is
it? I have it not yet, and perhaps shall never see it.

"Lo my earthly life is 'to-day.' What must I do then with 'to-day,'
that God may be honored and glorified in it? for after all, if I have
the happiness of counting the year 1844, as dating from a Christian
era, and not from that of a false prophet with the Mahomedans, nor
yet of a false God, with the poor Indians, it must be to Jesus
Christ, from whose birth I count my years, that those years should be
dedicated.

"Here I am, therefore, in the presence of my Saviour, of whom I
implore the Spirit of wisdom and prudence to guide me in the
employment of this my day, since in reality I have but one, and that
is, 'To-day.'

"But I cannot do better than walk in the footsteps of my Redeemer,
and in his conduct and conversation whilst on earth, I observe these
three things: Temperance, piety, and charity, to all of which he
wholly devoted himself, and has thus left me an example to follow.

"I will therefore imitate him first in his temperance. He rose early
in the morning--he eat frugally--he worked diligently--he wearied
himself in well-doing: in a word, he exerted the whole strength of
his mind and body in the cause of truth, but never in the cause of
evil.

"These, therefore, must be settled rules, moderate sleep, moderate
repasts, moderate care and attention to the body; active employment,
always to a useful purpose, profitable to my neighbor, and never
interfering with my duties at home.

"In the next place, I must imitate Jesus in His _piety_. His
Father's will was as His daily food. What a thought! To live wholly
to God, and as He himself teaches us in His Holy Word. To do this, I
must know His Word; I must study it, meditate upon it, and learn it
by heart. Besides reading, I must pray, for prayer is the life both
of my heart and soul with God. What glory is thus permitted to me, a
poor sinner, that I _ought_, and that I _can_, live to Him,
love Him, and devote myself to Him! It is heaven already begun on
earth; for in heaven my soul will enjoy no other happiness than that
of knowing God, and living to His glory. This thought fills me with
joy, and I am encouraged by it to consecrate myself wholly to Him, as
did my Lord and Saviour.

"Lastly, I will, by the grace of God, imitate Jesus in his
_charity_. How many souls there are about me to love, to comfort,
to enlighten and to assist. But I can only do it in the measure which God
himself has assigned to me. At my age, and but a girl, subject to the
wishes of my parents, I ought only to desire to do good in proportion to
the means with which the Lord has furnished me. But I must, in so
doing, endeavor to overcome selfishness, idleness, the love of ease,
avarice, hardness of heart, pride, and indifference, and I must love my
neighbor as myself. Oh! what an important undertaking, and how many
excuses and deceits this kind of charity will encounter and overcome.

"But I will look to Jesus, and pray to him; I will implore the
secret guidance of his Spirit; and since he is faithful, he will not
leave me alone, but will lead me, and enable me to walk day by day, I
mean 'to-day,' in his sight, and in communion with him, who is so
full of love and gentleness."

This, my dear Esther, is what I have copied from Amelia's journal.
You see the light in which our friend regarded her life on earth, and
how much importance she attached to one _day_--a single day.

As I read what she had written, I felt my soul humbled before God,
and I trembled to think of the useless way in which I had hitherto
spent my time.

You see in particular what Amelia felt on the subject of piety; what
love her soul had for God! and this is what produced in her that
active, sincere, and constant charity.

You cannot form the least idea of the work, of kindness and
benevolence which she was enabled to accomplish. That passage, "The
memory of the just is blessed," is truly applicable to her.

Amelia was justified in her Saviour, for she trusted in him, and
thus was she also justified before God, by her faith in Jesus. The
spirit of Jesus led her in "all her way," and in whatever family she
appeared, her actions and words manifested a heavenly mind.

Her name is remembered with blessing in the hearts of all who knew
her; her counsels, her instructions, her example, and her acts of
benevolence, are continually spoken of by those who witnessed them,
and it is thus that she left behind a sweet savor of holiness, like a
ray of heavenly light.

Dear Esther, here is an example placed before us; it has been the
will of God that we should know her, that we might be charmed with
her excellence, and that the happiness both of her life and death,
might tempt us to imitate her.

No, no, my sister, she is not dead; she is rather, as the poor
workman said, at her grave, "a child of God in heaven." As _she_
followed Jesus, let us also follow her, and let her memory be thus a
blessing to us both.

God be with you, my dear sister. I long to see you, that we may pray
the Lord together, to make us like his faithful, holy servant, the
dear and pious Amelia.

Yours, &c.,

ANNA.




IV.


The Tract found by the Way-Side.


"Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a
vessel for the finer." --Prov. XXV. 4.

Every one knows in these days what is meant by a _religious
tract_. It is a little printed pamphlet, which is sold at a very
low price, or is still oftener given away, or dropped in the streets
and lanes, that those who either purchase, or accept, or find them,
may read the truths of the Gospel, and the good advice which they
contain.

This is an old-fashioned way of imparting instruction, both to high
and low. It was in use, for instance, as early as the first days of
the Reformation, when some faithful Christians of Picardy, in France,
assembled together to read the Holy Scriptures, on which account they
were exposed to persecution, death, and above all, to be burnt alive.

These true disciples of the Lord Jesus composed and distributed,
with considerable difficulty, some little pamphlets, in which were
taught the doctrines of salvation by Christ alone, and in a form
which enabled the poor and ignorant to read and understand; for it
was impossible for them at that time to procure a Bible, which was
not only a scarce book, but cost a large sum of money: indeed, almost
as much as a thousand Bibles would cost in the present day, and
which, besides, they could not carry home and read quietly to
themselves, as they were able to do with a simple tract.

At a later period, and chiefly for the last fifty years, this method
has been adopted in almost all countries where true Christian
churches and societies have been established; and even now, millions
of these tracts, adapted to all ages and conditions of men, are
published and distributed every year.

It is, however, but too true, that many tracts thus distributed are
not _religious tracts_; that is to say, the substance of them is
not in conformity with the truth of scripture. Many are published for
the purpose of upholding false religion and wicked principles, and
which, consequently, do great mischief to those who read them.

And if it be asked, "How can a good tract be distinguished from a
bad one?" we thus reply to this very natural question.

A _good tract_ is that which leads us to the Bible; which
speaks of the love of God in Christ; and which encourages the reader
to be holy from a motive of love to God.

A _bad tract_ is therefore that which does not speak of the
Bible; which tells us that salvation may be obtained by human merit,
and which consequently would persuade us to be religious from
interested motives: that is to say, to obtain pardon by means of our
own good works.

Those tracts, too, which speak of man's happiness as if it came from
man alone, and not from God, and which consequently deny the truth of
God's word: these must also be called _bad tracts_, and must
therefore be carefully avoided.

The good that is done by the distribution of good tracts, can
scarcely be believed. There are many families, even in prosperity,
who never tasted real happiness until some of these evangelical
writings found their way amongst them. The following anecdote is an
interesting proof of this:

The family of a vinedresser, in the Canton of Vaud, in Switzerland,
was, unhappily, as well known in the village in which he lived, for
his bad conduct, as for his impiety. The father, whose name we will
not mention, was a proud and hard-hearted man, both intemperate and
dissolute; and his wife, who thought as little of the fear of God as
her husband did, was what might be called a _noisy babbler_.

The pastor of the village had often, but vainly, endeavored to lead
these unhappy people to a sense of religion, but he was always
received by them with scoffing and ridicule.

The family was composed of the vinedresser's three children. The
eldest, Mark, was as haughty as his father, and although he was only
fourteen years of age, he was already able to join in the disorders
of his drunken and gaming companions. He was entirely devoid of any
sense of religion. His sister, Josephine, who was rather more than
twelve years old, possessed a more amiable disposition. The pastor's
wife took much interest in this child, who could not help seeing that
her parents were not guided by the Spirit of God. Peter, the
youngest, was but ten years of age, but his brother's wicked example
counteracted all the good which he might have received from that of
his more amiable sister.

About the end of May, there was to be, in a village not far distant,
a match at rifle-shooting. It was a public fete, at which all the
people in the neighborhood assembled.

On the morning of this day, Mark had answered his father with great
insolence, at which he was so much enraged, that he punished him
severely, and forbad him, besides, to go to the fete. The father
went thither himself, and Mark, after a moment's indecision,
determined not to heed the command he had received, but to follow him
to the shooting-match.

He therefore took advantage of his mother's absence, who, according
to her usual custom, was gone to gossip with some of her neighbors,
and notwithstanding the remonstrances of Josephine, he hastened over
fields and hedges, to the scene of the match.

"What is this?" cried he, picking up a little pamphlet, with a cover
of colored paper, which was lying on the path near the opening in the
hedge. "Oh! it is one of those tracts they leave about everywhere; it
will do very well to load my gun;" and so saying, he put the tract
into his pocket, and ran on as before.

But when he approached the village where they were shooting,
dancing, playing, and making a great noise, he suddenly stopped, for
he recollected that if he should meet with his father, who was there,
he would certainly beat him, and send him home again, in presence of
all the people who might be assembled; besides, his brother Peter was
there also, and he might see him, and tell his father. He therefore
kept at a distance, behind a hedge, not daring to advance any farther.

"Supposing I read this book!" said he, at last, after having vainly
racked his brain to find out how he could be at the fete without
being discovered. "There is nothing in it but nonsense, I know
beforehand; however, it will occupy me for a while."

This tract was called "The Happy Family," and Mark became so much
interested in it, that he not only read the whole, but many parts of
it twice over.

"How odd it is," said he, when he had finished reading; "I should
never have thought it could be thus; this Andrew and Julia, after
all, were much happier than we are, and than I am, in particular.
Ah!" added he, as he walked on by the hedge-side, looking on the
ground, "possibly Josephine may have spoken the truth, and that,
after all, the right way is the one which this lady points out."

As he thought over the little story he had been reading, he retraced
his steps towards his own village, at first rather slowly, but soon
at a quicker pace, and he entered his father's house very quietly,
and without either whistling or making a noise, as he generally did.

"You have not then been to the fete," said Josephine.

_Mark_.--(A little ashamed.)--"I dared not go, I was afraid my
father would beat me."

_Josephine_.--"It would have been better, Mark, if you had been
equally afraid of offending God."

Mark was on the point of ridiculing her, as he always did, but he
recollected Andrew and Julia, and was silent.

_Josephine_.--(Kindly.)--"But is it not true, Mark? would it
not be better to fear God, than to be always offending him?"

_Mark_.--(Knitting his brow.)--"Yes, as Andrew and Julia did!
would it not?"

_Josephine_.--(surprised.)--"Of whom do you speak, Mark? Is it
of "The Happy Family," in which an Andrew and a Julia are mentioned.
Have you ever read that beautiful story?"

"Here it is," said Mark, drawing the tract from his pocket, and
giving it to his sister.

_Josephine_.--"Yes, this is it, exactly! But brother, where did
you get it, for it is quite new; did you buy it of a _Scripture
Reader_."

"Did I _buy_ it?" said Mark, sullenly. "Do you suppose I should
spend my money in such nonsense as _that?_"

_Josephine_.--"Then how did you get it? Did any one give it you?"

_Mark_.--(Slyly.)--"Ah! they have often tried to give me some,
but I tore them to pieces, and threw them away, before their faces!"

_Josephine_.--"So much the worse, Mark! for the truth of God is
written in them, and it is very sinful to tear the truth of God in
pieces."

_Mark_.--(Rudely.)--"But you see I have not torn this, for it
is quite whole! And as you are so anxious to know how I came by it, I
found it on the ground, near the road, and just beyond the brushwood."

_Josephine_.--"Ah! then I know where it came from. The Pastor's
son, and the two sons of the schoolmaster, have got up a Religious
Tract Society, who distribute them in all directions."

_Mark_.--(Reproachfully.)--"And pray why do they scatter them
about in this way? Can't they leave people alone, without cramming
every body's head with their own fancies. Let them keep their
religion to themselves, and leave other people to do the same."

_Josephine_.--"Do you think, Mark, that Andrew and Julia did
wrong to listen to their father and grandmamma, and to follow the
precepts of the Bible in preference to the ridicule of scoffers."

_Mark_.--(Softened.)--"I did not say _that_.... I think
Andrew and Julia were right; but ... come give me back the Tract; I
want to look at something in it again."

Mark then went away, carrying the Tract with him; and shortly after,
Josephine saw him sitting in the garden, behind a hedge of sweet-
briar, reading it attentively.

"Where's that good-for-nothing Mark?" demanded the vinedresser, when
he returned home at night half tipsy. "Did he dare to venture to the
shooting-match? I was told that he was seen sneaking about the
outskirts of the village! where is he now?"

"He went to bed more than an hour ago," answered his mother, "and
was no more at the shooting-match than I was, for I saw him reading
in the garden."

"Mark, _reading_!" replied his father. "What could he be
reading? It would be a miracle to see him with a book in his hand. An
idle fellow like him, who never did learn any thing, and never will!"

The vinedresser's wife was silent, and after putting poor little
Peter to bed, who was quite tired and weary, she managed to get the
father to bed also, and peace reigned for a season in this miserable
abode.

Mark, however, who was not asleep when his father returned, had
heard himself called a good-for-nothing idle fellow, and he trembled
from head to foot, when he found he had been seen in the neighborhood
of the village.

"What a good thing it was," said he to himself, "that I did not go
on! It was certainly God who prevented me!" added he, half ashamed of
the thought because it was so new to him; but he determined no longer
to resist it.

On the morrow, to the great surprise of his father and mother, Mark
got up in good humor; he answered his father without grumbling, and
when he was desired to go and work in the field, Mark hastened to
take his hoe and spade, and set off, singing merrily.

"What has happened to him?" asked the father. "One would scarcely
believe it was he! Wife, what did you say to him yesterday, to make
him so good-humored this morning?"

"I never even spoke to him," said his wife, dryly. "You know how
whimsical he is."

"I wish he may remain in his present mind!" said the vinedresser;
and thereupon he went off to the ale-house, to talk with his
neighbors of the best shots of the preceding day.

Josephine related the history of the little tract to the good
pastor's wife, who advised her to meet Mark on his return from the
field, and to speak to him again of what he had read.

"Is it _you_, sister?" said Mark, in a happy tone of voice, as
soon as he saw her. "It is very good of you to meet me."

Josephine, who never received such a welcome from him before, was
quite delighted, and going up to him, she said, affectionately, "I
want very much to talk with you again about Andrew and Julia."

_Mark_.--(Seriously.)--"And so do I. I should like very much to
resemble them."

_Josephine_.--(Quickly.)--"Do you mean what you say, Mark? Have
you thought of it again since yesterday?"

_Mark_.--(Still serious.)--"I have thought so much about it,
that I am determined to change my habits. Yes, Josephine, I think you
are right, and that, after all, religion is better than ridicule."

The conversation continued as it had commenced, and when Mark
returned home, he went up and kissed his mother, who was just laying
the table for dinner.

"What's the matter?" said she, with some surprise; "you seem in very
good spirits, today."

"Nothing is the matter, good mother, but that I wish to alter my
conduct," replied Mark, seriously.

"To alter your conduct," cried little Peter, as he looked up in his
brother's face, and began to titter.

"And you, too, little Peter," said Mark, "you must become good, also."

"What a funny idea," cried the child, laughing. "_What_ has
made you turn schoolmaster, all at once? and, pray, when am I to
begin?"

"We shall see by-and-bye," said Mark, kindly. "In the meantime, come
and help me to tend the cow."

"There is something behind all this!" said the mother and she
blushed to think that this change had not been occasioned by anything
she had said or done to him, herself.

When the father returned from the ale-house, they all sat down to
dinner, and as usual, without saying "_grace_." Josephine said
hers to herself, and Mark, who recollected Andrew and Julia, blushed
when he took his spoon to eat his soup.

After dinner, when they were out of the house, Josephine said to
Mark, "What a pity it is, brother, that papa does not pray before
each meal."

"All _that_ will come in time, Josephine," said Mark; "I never
prayed myself, and yet ... I must now begin directly. But what shall
I do? Papa will be very angry if he sees me religious."

"I do not think he will," said Josephine, "for I heard him say to
mumma, this morning, that he should be very glad if your conduct
improved."

Mark blushed, but did not reply. He returned to his work without
being desired to do so, and his father, who was quite astonished,
said to his wife, "There is something very extraordinary about Mark.
I wish it may last."

"You wish it may last!" said his wife; "how can you wish that, when
you do not care to improve yourself."

"And you, my poor wife," said the vinedresser, "do you care to
change any more than I do? I think as to that matter, we cannot say
much against each other."

"Well, at all events," said his wife, "I am not a drunkard."

"Nor am I a tattler," replied the husband. "And for this reason let
us each think of our own fault, and if Mark is disposed to reform, do
not let us prevent him; for, my poor wife, _our_ example is not
a very good one for him."

Josephine, who was working at her needle, in the adjoining room,
could not help overhearing this confession of her father, and she
felt the more encouraged to uphold Mark in his good intention.

She therefore went again to meet him, and repeated to him all she
had heard. "I think," added she, "you will do well to relate what has
happened to our father and mother, and read them the little tract."

"Not yet," said Mark, "for my principles are not sufficiently
strong. It is but an hour since the ale-house keeper's son laughed at
me, because I told him I would not play at nine-pins with him, during
working hours. He asked me if I was becoming a Methodist, and I did
not know what answer to make. However, I trust I am already
improving, and I have read the little tract again for the third time."

"Oh!" said Josephine, "we ought to read the Bible, and we do not
possess one."

"True," said Mark, somewhat surprised. "I never thought of
_that_. We have really no Bible in the house! Indeed, this must
not be," he added, looking on the ground, and striking it with his
spade.

"What shall we do, then?" said Josephine, "for it would be very nice
to have one."

Mark became thoughtful, but said nothing. From that day his conduct
was always regular, and his habits industrious, so much so, that his
father, who was never in the habit of showing him much kindness, said
to him, at the dinner table, and before all the rest of the family,
"Well, my good Mark, tell us what has happened to you; for it is very
pleasant to us to see how well you now behave. Tell us, my boy, what
has been the cause of this improvement."

"It was from this book," said Mark, drawing it out of his pocket,
where he always kept it.

"What book is it?" said his mother, scornfully. "Is it not some of
that horrid trash, that"...

"Be silent," cried the father. "If this book has done good, how can
it be horrid trash? Do sour grapes produce good wine?"

"But," replied the mother, bitterly, "I will not have any of those
books and tracts in this house."

"Well, for my part," said the vinedresser, "I will encourage all
that teach my children to do what is right. Mark has worked well for
the last eight days; he has not occasioned me a moment's vexation
during the whole of that time, and as he says that this book has been
the means of his improvement, I shall also immediately read it
myself. Come, Mark, let us hear it. You can read fluently; come, we
will all listen. Wife, do you be quiet, and you too, Peter; as for
Josephine she is quite ready."

Mark began to read, but he could not proceed far; his father got up
and went out, without saying a word, and his mother began to remove
the dinner-things.

But as soon as the family re-assembled in the evening, the father
said to Mark, "Go on with your reading, Mark, I want to hear the end,
for I like the story."

Mark read, and when he came to that part of the tract, in which the
Bible is mentioned, the vinedresser looked up to a high shelf on the
wall, where were some old books, and said, "wife, had we not once a
Bible?"

"Fifteen years ago," she answered, "you exchanged it for a pistol."

The vinedresser blushed, and listened with out farther interruption
until Mark had done reading. When the tract was finished, he remained
silent, his head leaning on his hands, and his elbows on his knees.
Josephine thought this was the time to speak about the Bible, which
she had so long wished to possess, and she went up to her father, and
stood for some time by his side without speaking.

Her father perceived her, and raising his head, he said to her,
"What do you want, Josephine, tell me, my child, what do you want to
ask me?"

"Dear papa," said the child, "I have long desired to read the Bible,
would you be so kind as to buy me one?"

"A Bible," cried her mother, "what can _you_ want with a Bible,
at _your_ age?"

"Oh! wife, wife," said the vinedresser, much vexed, "when will you
help me to do what is right?" "Yes, my child," he added, kissing
Josephine's cheek, "I will buy you one to-morrow. Do you think there
are any to be had at the pastor's house?"

"Oh! yes, plenty," cried Josephine, "and very large ones too!"

"Very well then," said the father, as he got up, and went out of the
house, "you shall have a very large one."

"But," said his wife, calling after him, "you don't know how much it
will cost."

"It will not cost so much as the wine I mean no longer to drink!"
replied the father, firmly.

He kept his word. The Bible was purchased on the morrow, and the
same evening the father desired Mark to read him a whole chapter. The
ale-house saw him no more the whole of that week, and still less the
following Sunday. His friends laughed at him, and wanted to get him
back. He was at first tempted and almost overcome, but the thought of
the Bible restrained him, and he determined to refuse.

"Are you gone mad, then?" said they.

"No," replied he, "but I read the Bible now, and as it says, that
drunkards shall not 'inherit the kingdom of God,' I listen to what it
says, and I desire to cease to be a drunkard."

"You see," said Josephine to Mark, as they accompanied each other to
church, "how good God has been to us. We have now a Bible, and it is
read by all at home."

_Mark_.--"Have you been able to tell the pastor's son how much
good his tract has done us?"

_Josephine_.--"I told his mother."

_Mark_.--"And what did she say?"

_Josephine_.--"She said, 'God is wonderful in all his ways,'
and that, 'He which hath begun the good work in us, will perform it
until the day of Jesus Christ.'"

_Mark_.--(Feelingly.)--"Who could have thought that when I went
as a rebel to that Fete, that God was there waiting to draw me to
himself. But, dear Josephine, there is yet much to be done."

"But," said Josephine, "where God has promised he is also able to
perform. He has told us to pray in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Let us do so, and you will see that God will renew our hearts, and
make us wise and good."







This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>






                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES


                          THE ORDER OF ALL THE
                 FORBIDDEN BOOKS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT
            WITH THEIR PROPER NAMES, AND NUMBER OF CHAPTERS






CONTENTS:

Mary
Protevangelion
I. Infancy
II. Infancy
Nicodemus
Christ and Abgarus
Laodiceans
Paul and Seneca
Acts of Paul and Thecla
I. Clement
II. Clement
Barnabas
Ephesians
Magnesians
Trallians
Romans
Philadelphians
Smyrnaeans
Polycarp
Philippians
I. Hermas--Visions
II. Hermas--Commands
III. Hermas--Similitudes





                                 PREFACE.

To uphold the "right of private judgment," and our "Christian liberty
wherewith Christ hath made us free;" to add fuel to the fire of
investigation, and in  the crucible of deep inquiry, melt from the gold
of pure religion, the dross of  man's invention; to appeal from the
erring tribunals of a fallible Priesthood, and  restore to its original
state the mutilated Testament of the Saviour; also to induce all earnest
thinkers to search not a part, but the whole of the Scriptures, if
therein they think they will find eternal life; I, as an advocate of
free thought  and untrammelled opinion, dispute the authority of those
uncharitable, bickering,  and ignorant Ecclesiastics who first suppressed
these gospels and epistles; and I join issue with their Catholic and
Protestant successors who have since excluded  them from the New
Testament, of which they formed a part; and were venerated  by the
Primitive Churches, during the first four hundred years of the Christian
Era.

My opposition is based on two grounds; first, the right of every rational
being to become a "Priest unto himself," and by the test of enlightened
reason,  to form his own unbiassed judgment of all things natural and
spiritual: second,  that the reputation of the Bishops who extracted
these books from the original New Testament, under the pretence of being
Apocryphal, and forbade them to be  read by the people, is proved by
authentic impartial history too odious to entitle them to any deference.
Since the Nicene Council, by a pious fraud, which I  shall further allude
to, suppressed these books, several of them have been reissued from time
to time by various translators, who differed considerably in  their
versions, as the historical references attached to them in the following
pages will demonstrate. But to the late Mr. William Hone we are indebted
for their complete publication for the first time in one volume, about
the year 1820; which  edition, diligently revised, and purified of many
errors both in the text and the  notes attached thereto, I have
re-published in numbers to enable all classes of the nation to purchase
and peruse them.    As, however, instead of being called by  their own
designation "Apocryphal," (which yet remains to be proved), they  were
re-entitled THE FORBIDDEN BOOKS, and, from communications received,
appear to have agitated a portion of the great mass of ignorant bigotry
which mars the fair form of Religion in these sect-ridden dominions, I
have  modified the title to its present shape with the hope that in spite
of illiberal  clerical influence, my fellow Christians will read and
inwardly digest the sublime  precepts they inculcate;--as pure, as holy,
and as charitable as those principles  of Christianity taught in the
Scriptures they; now read by permission;  although their minds may, after
mature reflection, doubt the truth of the miraculous records therein
given.

To ensure these Gospels and Epistles an unprejudiced and serious
attention,  which they are entitled to, equally with those now patronised
by Church authority, I will briefly refer to that disgraceful epoch in
Roman Ecclesiastical Annals,  when the New Testament was mutilated, and
priestly craft was employed for excluding these books from its pages.
HONE, in the preface to his first edition of the Apocryphal New
Testament, so called, without satisfactory grounds, by the  Council of
Nice, in the reign of the Emperor Constantine, thus opens the  subject:--

"After the writings contained in the New Testament were selected from the
numerous Gospels and Epistles then in existence, what became of the Books
that  were rejected by the compilers?"

This question naturally occurs on every investigation as to the period
when and the  persons by whom the New Testament was formed. It has been
supposed by many  that the volume was compiled by the first Council of
Nice, which, according to  Jortin (Rem. on Eccl. vol. ii. p. 177),
originated thus: Alexander, Bishop of Alexandria, and Arius, who was a
presbyter in his diocese, disputed together about the nature of Christ;
and the bishop being displeased at the notions of Arius, and finding
that they were adopted by other persons, "was very angry." He commanded
Arius to come over to his sentiments, and to quit his own; as if a man
could change  his opinions as easily as he can change his coat! He then
called a Council of  War, consisting of nearly, a hundred bishops, and
deposed, excommunicated, and  anathematized Arius, and with him several
ecclesiastics, two of whom were  bishops. Constantine sent a letter, in
which he reprimanded the bishops for disturbing the, church with their
insignificant disputes.  But the affair was gone too far to be thus
composed. To settle this and other points, the Nicene Council was
summoned, consisting of about 318 bishops. The first thing they did was
to quarrel, and to express their resentments, and to present accusations
to the Emperor against one another. "The Emperor burnt all their libels,
and exhorted them to peace and unity."(See Mosheim's Eccle. Hist.) These
were the  kind of spiritual shepherds of whom Sabinus, the Bishop
Heraclea affirms, that  excepting Constantine himself, and Eusebius
Pamphilus, they "were a set of illiterate creatures, that understood
nothing." And now intelligent Catholics, especially Protestants who are
content to read only the books of the Testament authorized by the Council
of Nice, and agreed to ever since by your own bishops,  although they and
you profess to dissent from the Papacy, hear what Pappus in his Synodican
to that Council says of their crafty contrivance when they separated the
books of the original New Testament:--He tells us, that having
"promiscuously put all the books that were referred to the Council for
deliberation under the  communion-table in a church, they besought the
Lord that the inspired writings might get on the table, while the
spurious ones remained underneath; and that it happened accordingly!"
(See Com. Mace's N. T. p. 875.) Therefore, good reader, every  Christian
sect from the fourth century to the present period, have been blessed
with the books that climbed upon the communion-table, and in consequence
were  deemed inspired and canonical; at the same time have been forbidden
to read the  Gospels and Epistles herein published, because they could
not perform the same feat, but remained under the table, and were
condemned accordingly, as uninspired and apocryphal writings. If you
believe this popish legend, you will not read the good books I lay before
you, but still continue to possess only HALF THE TESTAMENT, instead of
the  PERFECT ONE, which will enable you to burst the trammels of
priestcraft, and by  the light of God's whole truth become free. In
conclusion, I implore you to examine for yourselves, and observe the
testimony of Archbishop Wake and other learned divines and historians
appended  thereto; and subscribe myself,

                              Your well-wisher,
                                                  EDWARD HANCOCK.




                            FORBIDDEN BOOKS
                                 OF THE
                             NEW TESTAMENT.

                     THE GOSPEL OF THE BIRTH OF MARY.


CHAPTER I.

     1 The Parentage of Mary.
     7 Joachim her father, and Anna her mother,
     go to Jerusalem to the feast of the dedication.
     9 Issachar, the high priest, reproaches Joachim
     for being childless.

THE blessed and ever glorious
Virgin Mary, sprung from
the royal race and family of David,
was born in the city of Nazareth,
and educated at Jerusalem, in the
temple of the Lord.

2  Her father's name was Joachim,
and her mother's Anna.
The family of her father was of
Galilee and the city of Nazareth.
The family of her mother was of
Bethlehem.

3  Their lives were plain and
right in the sight of the Lord,
pious and faultless before men;
for they divided all their substance
into three parts;

4  One of which they devoted to
the temple and officers of the
temple; another they distributed
among strangers, and persons in
poor circumstances; and the third
they reserved for themselves and
the uses of their own family.

5  In this manner they lived for
about twenty years chastely, in the
favour of God, and the esteem of
men, without any children.

6  But they vowed, if God should
favour them with any issue, they
would devote it to the service of
the Lord; on which account they
went at every feast in the year to
the temple of the Lord.

7  And it came to pass, that
when the feast of the dedication
drew near, Joachim, with some
others of his tribe, went up to
Jerusalem, and at that time,
Isachar was high-priest;

8  Who, when he saw Joachim
along with the rest of his
neighbours, bringrng his offerings,
despised both him and his offerings,
and asked him,

9  Why he, who had no children,
would presume to appear among
those who had? Adding, that his
offerings could never be acceptable
to God, who was judged by him
unworthy to have children; the
Scripture having said, Cursed is
every one who shall not beget a
male in Israel.

10  He further said, that he ought
first to be free from that curse by
begetting some issue, and then
come with his offerings into the
presence of God.

11  But Joachim being much
confounded with the shame of such
reproach, retired to the shepherds
who were with the cattle in their
pastures;

12  For he was not inclined to
return home, lest his neighbours,
who were present and heard all
this from the high-priest, should
publicly reproach him in the same
manner.



CHAPTER II.

     1 An angel appears to Joachim,
     9 and informs him that Anna shall conceive and
     bring forth a daughter, who shall be called Mary,
     11 be brought up in the temple,
     12 and while yet a virgin, in a way unparalleled,
     bring forth the Son of God:
     13 Gives him a sign,
     14 and departs.

BUT when he had been there for
some time, on a certain day
when he was alone, the angel
of the Lord stood by him with
a prodigious light.

2  To whom, being troubled at
the appearance, the angel who had
appeared to him, endeavouring to
compose him, said:

3  Be not afraid, Joachim, nor
troubled at the sight of me, for
I am an angel of the Lord sent by
him to you, that I might inform
you that your prayers are heard,
and your alms ascended in the
sight of God.

4  For he hath surely seen your
shame, and heard you unjustly
reproached for not having children:
for God is the avenger of sin,
and not of nature;

5  And so when he shuts the
womb of any person, he does it for
this reason, that he may in a more
wonderful manner again open it,
and that which is born appear to
be not the product of lust, but the
gift of God.

6  For the first mother of your
nation, Sarah, was she not barren
even till her eightieth year: and
yet even in the end of her old age
brought forth Isaac, in whom the
promise was made of a blessing to
all nations.

7  Rachel, also, so much in
favour with God, and beloved so
much by holy Jacob, continued
barren for a long time, yet
afterwards was the mother of Joseph,
who was not only governor of
Egypt, but delivered many nations
from perishing with hunger.

8  Who among the judges was
more valiant than Sampson, or more
holy than Samuel? And yet both
their mothers were barren.

9  But if reason will not convince
you of the truth of my words, that
there are frequent conceptions in
advanced years, and that those
who were barren have brought forth
to their great surprise; therefore
Anna your wife shall bring you a
daughter, and you shall call her
name Mary;

10  She shall, according to your
vow, be devoted to the Lord from
her infancy, and be filled with the
Holy Ghost from her mother's
womb;

11  She shall neither eat nor
drink any thing which is unclean,
nor shall her conversation be
without among the common people,
but in the temple of the Lord;
that so she may not fall under any
slander or suspicion of what is bad.

12  So in the process of her
years, as she shall be in a
miraculous manner born of one that
was barren, so she shall, while yet
a virgin, in a way unparalleled,
bring forth the Son of the most
High God, who shall, be called
Jesus, and, according to the
signification of his name, be the
Saviour of all nations.

13  And this shall be a sign to
you of the things which I declare,
namely, when you come to the
golden gate of Jerusalem, you
shall there meet your wife Anna,
who being very much troubled
that you returned no sooner, shall
then rejoice to see you.

14  When the angel had said this,
he departed from him.



CHAPTER III.

     1 The angel appears to Anna;
     2 tells her a daughter shall be born unto her,
     3 devoted to the service of the Lord in the temple,
     5, who, being a virgin, and not knowing man,
     shall bring forth the Lord,
     6 and gives her a sign therefore.
     8 Joachim and Anna meet, and rejoice,
     10 and praise the Lord.
     11 Anna conceives, and brings forth a daughter called Mary.

AFTERWARDS the angel appeared
to Anna his wife, saying;
Fear not, neither think that
which you see is a spirit;

2  For I am that angel who hath
offered up your prayers and alms
before God, and am now sent to
you, that I may inform you, that
a daughter will be born unto you,
who shall be called Mary, and
shall be blessed above all women.

3  She shall be, immediately
upon her birth, full of the grace of
the Lord, and shall continue during
the three years of her weaning
in her father's house, and afterwards,
being devoted to the service of the Lord,
shall not depart from the temple,
till she arrive to years of discretion.

4  In a word, she shall there
serve the Lord night and day in
fasting and prayer, shall abstain
from every unclean thing, and
never know any man;

5  But, being an unparalleled instance
without any pollution or defilement,
and a virgin not knowing any man,
shall ring forth a son, and a maid
shall bring forth the Lord, who
both by his grace and name and works,
shall be the Saviour of the world.

6  Arise therefore, and go up to
Jerusalem, and when you shall
come to that which is called the
golden gate (because it is gilt with
gold), as a sign of what I have told
you, you shall meet your husband,
for whose safety you have been so
much concerned.

7  When therefore you find these
things thus accomplished, believe
that all the rest which I have told
you, shall also undoubtedly be
accomplished.

8  According therefore to the
command of the angel, both of
them left the places where they
were, and when they came to the
place specified in the angels
prediction, they met each other.

9  Then, rejoicing at each other's
vision, and being fully satisfied in
the promise of a child, they gave
due thanks to the Lord, who exalts
the humble.

10  After having praised the
Lord, they returned home, and
lived in a cheerful and assured
expectation of the promise of God.

11  So Anna conceived, and
brought forth a daughter, and,
according to the angel's command,
the parents did call her name Mary.



CHAPTER IV.

     1 Mary brought to the temple at three years old.
     6 Ascends the stairs of the temple by miracle.
     8 Her parents sacrifice and return home.

AND when three years were
expired, and the time of her
weaning complete, they brought
the Virgin to the temple of the
Lord with offerings.

2  And there were about the
temple, according to the fifteen
Psalms of degrees, fifteen stairs
to ascend.

3  For the temple being built in
a mountain, the altar of burnt-
offering, which was without, could
not be come near but by stairs;

4  The parents of the blessed
Virgin and infant Mary put her
upon one of these stairs;

5  But while they were putting
off their clothes, in which they had
travelled, and according to custom
putting on some that were more
neat and clean,

6  In the mean time the Virgin
of the Lord in such a manner went
up all the stairs one after another,
without the help of any to lead her
or lift her, that any one would have
judged from hence, that she was of
perfect age.

7  Thus the Lord did, in the
infancy of his Virgin, work this
extraordinary work, and evidence by
this miracle how great she was like
to be hereafter.

8  But the parents having offered
up their sacrifice, according to the
custom of the law, and perfected
their vow, left the Virgin with
other virgins in the apartments of
the temple, who were to be brought
up there, and they returned home.



CHAPTER V.

     2 Mary ministered unto by angels.
     4 The high priest orders all virgins of fourteen
     years old to quit the temple and endeavour to be married.
     5 Mary refuses,
     6 having vowed her virginity to the Lord.
     7 The high-priest commands a meeting of the chief persons
     of Jerusalem,
     11 who seek the Lord for counsel in the matter.
     13 A voice from the mercy-seat.
     15 The high-priest obeys it by ordering all the unmarried
     men of the house of David to bring their rods to the altar,
     17 that his rod which should flower, and on which the
     Spirit of God should sit, should betroth the Virgin.

BUT the Virgin of the Lord, as
she advanced in years, increased
also in perfeetions, and according
to the saying of the Psalmist,
her father and mother forsook her,
but the Lord took care of her.

2  For she every day had the
conversation of angels, and every
day received visitors from God,
which preserved her from all sorts
of evil, and caused her to abound
with all good things;

3  So that when at length she
arrived to her fourteenth year, as
the wicked could not lay any thing
to her charge worthy of reproof,
so all good persons, who were
acquainted with her, admired her
life and conversation.

4  At that time the high-priest
made a public order, That all the
virgins who had public settlements
in the temple, and were come to
this age, should return home, and,
as they were now of a proper
maturity, should, according to the
custom of their country, endeavour
to be married.

5  To which command, though
all the other virgins readily yielded
obedience, Mary the Virgin of the
Lord alone answered, that she
could not comply with it,

6  Assigning these reasons, that
both she and her parents had
devoted her to the service of the
Lord; and besides, that she had
vowed virginity to the Lord,
which vow she was resolved never
to break through by lying with a
man.

7  The high-priest being hereby
brought into a difficulty,

8  Seeing he durst neither on the
one hand dissolve the vow, and
disobey the Scripture, which says,
Vow and pay,

9  Nor on the other hand
introduce a custom, to which
the people were strangers, commanded,

10  That at the approaching feast
all the principal persons both of
Jerusalem and the neighbouring
places should meet together, that
he might have their advice, how
he had best proceed in so difficult
a case.

11  When they were accordingly
met, they unanimously agreed to
seek the Lord, and ask counsel
from him on this matter.

12  And when they were all
engaged in prayer, the high-priest
according to the usual way, went
to consult God.

13  And immediately there was
a voice from the ark, and the mercy
seat, which all present heard, that
it must be enquired or sought out
by a prophecy of Isaiah, to whom
the Virgin should be given and be
betrothed;

14  For Isaiah saith, there shall
come forth a rod out of the stem of
Jesse, and a flower shall spring
out of its root,

15  And the Spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon him, the Spirit of
Wisdom and Understanding, the
Spirit of Counsel and Might, the
Spirit of Knowledge and Piety,
and the Spirit of the fear of the
Lord shall fill him.

16  Then, according to this
prophecy, he appointed, that all
the men of the house and family
of David, who were marriageable,
and not married, should bring their
several rods to the altar,

17  And out of whatsoever
person's rod after it was brought,
a flower should bud forth, and on
the top of it the Spirit of the Lord
should sit in the appearance of a
dove, he should be the man to
whom the Virgin should be given
and be betrothed.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Joseph draws back his rod.
     5 The dove pitches on it. He betroths Mary and
     returns to Bethlehem.
     7 Mary returns to her parents' house at Galilee.

AMONG the rest there was a
man named Joseph of the
house and family of David, and a
person very far advanced in years,
who kept back his rod, when every
one besides presented his.

2  So that when nothing appeared
agreeable to the heavenly voice,
the high-priest judged it proper to
consult God again.

3  Who answered that he to
whom the Virgin was to be
betrothed was the only person of
those who were brought together,
who had not brought his rod.

4  Joseph therefore was betrayed.

5  For, when he did bring his
rod, and a dove coming from
Heaven pitched upon the top of
it, every one plainly saw, that the
Virgin was to be betrothed to him.

6  Accordingly, the usual
ceremonies of betrothing being over,
he returned to his own city of
Bethlehem, to set his house in
order, and make the needful
provisions for the marriage.

7  But the Virgin of the Lord,
Mary, with seven other virgins of
the same age, who had been weaned
at the same time, and who had
been appointed to attend her by
the priest, returned to her parents'
house in Galilee.


CHAPTER VII.

     7 The salutation of the Virgin by Gabriel, who explains to her
     that she shall conceive, without lying with a man, while a Virgin,
     19 by the Holy Ghost coming upon her without the heats of lust.
     21 She submits.

NOW at this time of her first
coming into Galilee, the
angel Gabriel was sent to her
from God, to declare to her the
conception of our Saviour, and
the manner and way of her
conceiving him.

2  Accordingly going into her,
he filled the chamber where she
was with a prodigious light, and
in a most courteous manner saluting
her, he said,

3  Hail, Mary! Virgin of the
Lord most acceptable!    O Virgin
full of grace! The Lord is with
you. You are blessed above all
women, and you are blessed above
all men, that have been hitherto
born.

4  But the Virgin, who had
before been well acquainted with
the countenances of angels, and
to whom such light from heaven
was no uncommon thing,

5  Was neither terrified with the
vision of the angel, nor astonished
at the greatness of the light, but
only troubled about the angel's
words,

6  And began to consider what
so extraordinary a salutation should
mean, what it did portend, or what
sort of end it would have.

7  To this thought the angel,
divinely inspired, replies;

8  Fear not, Mary, as though
I intended anything inconsistent
with your chastity in this salutation:

9  For you have found favour
with the Lord, because you made
virginity your choice.

10  Therefore while you are a
Virgin, you shall conceive without
sin, and bring forth a son.

11  He shall be great, because
he shall reign from sea to sea, and
from the rivers even to the ends of
the earth?

12  And he shall be called the
Son of the Highest; for he who is
born in a mean state on earth,
reigns in an exalted one in heaven.

13  And the Lord shall give him
the throne of his father David, and
he shall reign over the house of
Jacob for ever, and of his kingdom
there shall be no end.

14  For he is the King of Kings,
and Lord of Lords, and his throne
is forever and ever.

15  To this discourse of the
angel the Virgin replied, not, as
though she were unbelieving, but
willing to know the manner of it.

16  She said, How can that be?
For seeing, according to my vow,
I have never known any man, how
can I bear a child without the
addition of a man's seed.

17  To this the angel replied
and said, Think not, Mary, that
you shall conceive in the ordinary
way.

18  For, without lying with a
man, while a Virgin, you shall
conceive; while a Virgin, you
shall bring forth; and while a
Virgin shall give suck.

19  For the Holy Ghost shall
come upon you, and the power of
the Most High shall overshadow
you, without any of the heats of
lust.

20  So that which shall be born
of you shall be only holy, because
it only is conceived without sin,
and being born, shall be called the
Son of God.

21  Then Mary stretching forth
her hands, and lifting her eyes to
heaven, said, Behold the handmaid
of the Lord! Let it be unto me
according to thy word.



CHAPTER VIII.

     1 Joseph returns to Galilee, to marry the Virgin
     he had betrothed;
     4 perceives she is with child,
     5 is uneasy,
     7 purposes to put her away privily,
     8 is told by the angel of the Lord it is not the
     work of man but the Holy Ghost;
     12 Marries her, but keeps chaste,
     13 removes with her to Bethlehem,
     15 where she brings forth Christ.

JOSEPH therefore went from
Judaea to Galilee, with intention
to marry the Virgin who was
betrothed to him:

2  For it was now near three
months since she was betrothed
to him.

3  At length it plainly appeared
she was with chid, and it could
not be hid from Joseph:

4  For going to the Virgin in a
free manner, as one espoused, and
talking familiarly with her, he
perceived her to be with child,

5  And thereupon began to be
uneasy and doubtful, not knowing
what course it would be best to take;

6  For being a just man, he was
not willing to expose her, nor
defame her by the suspicion of
being a harlot, since he was a
pious man:

7  He purposed therefore privately
to put an end to their agreement,
and as privately to send her away.

8  But while he was meditating
these things, behold the angel of
the Lord appeared to him in his
sleep, and said, Joseph, son of
David, fear not;

9  Be not willing to entertain
any suspicion of the Virgin's
being guilty of fornication, or to
think any thing amiss of her,
neither be afraid to take her to wife:

10  For that which is begotten
in her and now distresses your
mind, is not the work of man, but
the Holy Ghost.

11  For she of all women is that
only Virgin who shall bring forth
the Son of God, and you shall call
his name Jesus, that is, Saviour:
for he will save his people from
their sins.

12  Joseph thereupon, according
to the command of the angel,
married the Virgin, and did not
know her, but kept her in chastity.

13  And now the ninth month
from her conception drew near,
when Joseph took his wife and
what other things were necessary
to Bethlehem, the city from whence
he came.

14  And it came to pass, while
they were there, the days were
fulfilled for her bringing forth.

15  And she brought forth her
first-born son, as the holy
Evangelists have taught, even our
Lord Jesus Christ, who with the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
lives and reigns to everlasting ages.



                       REFERENCES TO MARY'S GOSPEL

[In the primitive ages there was a Gospel extant bearing this name,
attributed to St. Matthew, and received as genuine and authentic by
several of the ancient Christian sects. It is to be found in the works
of Jerome, a Father of the Church, who flourished in the fourth century,
from whence the present translation is made. His contemporaries,
Epiphanius, Bishop of Salamis, and Austin also mention a gospel under
this title. The ancient copies differed from Jerome's, for from one of
them the learned Faustus, a native of Britain, who became Bishop of Riez,
in Provence, endeavoured to prove that Christ was not the Son of God till
after his baptism; and that he was not of the house of David and tribe of
Judah, because, according to the Gospel he cited, the Virgin herself was
not of this tribe, but of the tribe of Levi; her father being a priest of
the name of Joachim. It was likewise  from this Gospel that the sect of
the Collyridians established the worship and offering of manchet bread
and cracknels, or fine wafers, as sacrificed to Mary, whom they imagined
to have been born of a Virgin, as Christ is related in the Canonical
Gospels to have been born of her.  Epiphanius likewise cites a passage
concerning the death of Zacharias, which is not in Jerome's copy, viz.:
"That it was the occasion of the death of Zacharias  in the temple, that
when he had seen a vision, he, through surprise, was willing to disclose
it, and his mouth was stopped.  That which he saw was at the time of his
offering incense, and it was a man standing in the form of an ass.
When he was gone out, and had a mind to speak thus to the people, Woe
unto you, whom do you worship? he who had appeared to him in the temple
took away the use of his speech. Afterwards when he recovered it, and was
able to speak, he declared this to the Jews; and they slew him.  They add
(viz. the Gnostics in this book), that on this very  account the
high-priest was appointed by their lawgiver (by God to Moses)  to carry
little bells, that whensoever he went into the temple to sacrifice  he,
whom they worshipped, hearing the noise of the bells, might have time
enough to hide himself, and not be caught in that ugly shape and figure."
The principal part of this Gospel is contained in the Protevangelion of
James  which follows next in order.]








This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>
Additional proofing was done by Curtis A. Weyant





                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES


                          THE ORDER OF ALL THE
                 FORBIDDEN BOOKS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT
            WITH THEIR PROPER NAMES, AND NUMBER OF CHAPTERS






CONTENTS:

Mary
Protevangelion
I. Infancy
II. Infancy
Nicodemus
Christ and Abgarus
Laodiceans
Paul and Seneca
Acts of Paul and Thecla
I. Clement
II. Clement
Barnabas
Ephesians
Magnesians
Trallians
Romans
Philadelphians
Smyrnaeans
Polycarp
Philippians
I. Hermas--Visions
II. Hermas--Commands
III. Hermas--Similitudes





                                 PREFACE.


To uphold the "right of private judgment," and our "Christian liberty
wherewith Christ hath made us free;" to add fuel to the fire of
investigation, and in  the crucible of deep inquiry, melt from the gold
of pure religion, the dross of  man's invention; to appeal from the
erring tribunals of a fallible Priesthood, and  restore to its original
state the mutilated Testament of the Saviour; also to induce all earnest
thinkers to search not a part, but the whole of the Scriptures, if
therein they think they will find eternal life; I, as an advocate of
free thought  and untrammelled opinion, dispute the authority of those
uncharitable, bickering,  and ignorant Ecclesiastics who first suppressed
these gospels and epistles; and I join issue with their Catholic and
Protestant successors who have since excluded  them from the New
Testament, of which they formed a part; and were venerated  by the
Primitive Churches, during the first four hundred years of the Christian
Era.

My opposition is based on two grounds; first, the right of every rational
being to become a "Priest unto himself," and by the test of enlightened
reason,  to form his own unbiassed judgment of all things natural and
spiritual: second,  that the reputation of the Bishops who extracted
these books from the original New Testament, under the pretence of being
Apocryphal, and forbade them to be  read by the people, is proved by
authentic impartial history too odious to entitle them to any deference.
Since the Nicene Council, by a pious fraud, which I  shall further allude
to, suppressed these books, several of them have been reissued from time
to time by various translators, who differed considerably in  their
versions, as the historical references attached to them in the following
pages will demonstrate. But to the late Mr. William Hone we are indebted
for their complete publication for the first time in one volume, about
the year 1820; which  edition, diligently revised, and purified of many
errors both in the text and the  notes attached thereto, I have
re-published in numbers to enable all classes of the nation to purchase
and peruse them.    As, however, instead of being called by  their own
designation "Apocryphal," (which yet remains to be proved), they  were
re-entitled THE FORBIDDEN BOOKS, and, from communications received,
appear to have agitated a portion of the great mass of ignorant bigotry
which mars the fair form of Religion in these sect-ridden dominions, I
have  modified the title to its present shape with the hope that in spite
of illiberal  clerical influence, my fellow Christians will read and
inwardly digest the sublime  precepts they inculcate;--as pure, as holy,
and as charitable as those principles  of Christianity taught in the
Scriptures they; now read by permission;  although their minds may, after
mature reflection, doubt the truth of the miraculous records therein
given.

To ensure these Gospels and Epistles an unprejudiced and serious
attention,  which they are entitled to, equally with those now patronised
by Church authority, I will briefly refer to that disgraceful epoch in
Roman Ecclesiastical Annals,  when the New Testament was mutilated, and
priestly craft was employed for excluding these books from its pages.
HONE, in the preface to his first edition of the Apocryphal New
Testament, so called, without satisfactory grounds, by the  Council of
Nice, in the reign of the Emperor Constantine, thus opens the  subject:--

"After the writings contained in the New Testament were selected from the
numerous Gospels and Epistles then in existence, what became of the Books
that  were rejected by the compilers?"

This question naturally occurs on every investigation as to the period
when and the  persons by whom the New Testament was formed. It has been
supposed by many  that the volume was compiled by the first Council of
Nice, which, according to  Jortin (Rem. on Eccl. vol. ii. p. 177),
originated thus: Alexander, Bishop of Alexandria, and Arius, who was a
presbyter in his diocese, disputed together about the nature of Christ;
and the bishop being displeased at the notions of Arius, and finding
that they were adopted by other persons, "was very angry." He commanded
Arius to come over to his sentiments, and to quit his own; as if a man
could change  his opinions as easily as he can change his coat! He then
called a Council of  War, consisting of nearly, a hundred bishops, and
deposed, excommunicated, and  anathematized Arius, and with him several
ecclesiastics, two of whom were  bishops. Constantine sent a letter, in
which he reprimanded the bishops for disturbing the, church with their
insignificant disputes.  But the affair was gone too far to be thus
composed. To settle this and other points, the Nicene Council was
summoned, consisting of about 318 bishops. The first thing they did was
to quarrel, and to express their resentments, and to present accusations
to the Emperor against one another. "The Emperor burnt all their libels,
and exhorted them to peace and unity."(See Mosheim's Eccle. Hist.) These
were the  kind of spiritual shepherds of whom Sabinus, the Bishop
Heraclea affirms, that  excepting Constantine himself, and Eusebius
Pamphilus, they "were a set of illiterate creatures, that understood
nothing." And now intelligent Catholics, especially Protestants who are
content to read only the books of the Testament authorized by the Council
of Nice, and agreed to ever since by your own bishops,  although they and
you profess to dissent from the Papacy, hear what Pappus in his Synodican
to that Council says of their crafty contrivance when they separated the
books of the original New Testament:--He tells us, that having
"promiscuously put all the books that were referred to the Council for
deliberation under the  communion-table in a church, they besought the
Lord that the inspired writings might get on the table, while the
spurious ones remained underneath; and that it happened accordingly!"
(See Com. Mace's N. T. p. 875.) Therefore, good reader, every  Christian
sect from the fourth century to the present period, have been blessed
with the books that climbed upon the communion-table, and in consequence
were  deemed inspired and canonical; at the same time have been forbidden
to read the  Gospels and Epistles herein published, because they could
not perform the same feat, but remained under the table, and were
condemned accordingly, as uninspired and apocryphal writings. If you
believe this popish legend, you will not read the good books I lay before
you, but still continue to possess only HALF THE TESTAMENT, instead of
the  PERFECT ONE, which will enable you to burst the trammels of
priestcraft, and by  the light of God's whole truth become free. In
conclusion, I implore you to examine for yourselves, and observe the
testimony of Archbishop Wake and other learned divines and historians
appended  thereto; and subscribe myself,

                              Your well-wisher,
                                                  EDWARD HANCOCK.




                            FORBIDDEN BOOKS
                                 OF THE
                             NEW TESTAMENT.

                     THE GOSPEL OF THE BIRTH OF MARY.


CHAPTER I.

     1 The Parentage of Mary.
     7 Joachim her father, and Anna her mother,
     go to Jerusalem to the feast of the dedication.
     9 Issachar, the high priest, reproaches Joachim
     for being childless.

THE blessed and ever glorious
Virgin Mary, sprung from
the royal race and family of David,
was born in the city of Nazareth,
and educated at Jerusalem, in the
temple of the Lord.

2  Her father's name was Joachim,
and her mother's Anna.
The family of her father was of
Galilee and the city of Nazareth.
The family of her mother was of
Bethlehem.

3  Their lives were plain and
right in the sight of the Lord,
pious and faultless before men;
for they divided all their substance
into three parts;

4  One of which they devoted to
the temple and officers of the
temple; another they distributed
among strangers, and persons in
poor circumstances; and the third
they reserved for themselves and
the uses of their own family.

5  In this manner they lived for
about twenty years chastely, in the
favour of God, and the esteem of
men, without any children.

6  But they vowed, if God should
favour them with any issue, they
would devote it to the service of
the Lord; on which account they
went at every feast in the year to
the temple of the Lord.

7  And it came to pass, that
when the feast of the dedication
drew near, Joachim, with some
others of his tribe, went up to
Jerusalem, and at that time,
Isachar was high-priest;

8  Who, when he saw Joachim
along with the rest of his
neighbours, bringing his offerings,
despised both him and his offerings,
and asked him,

9  Why he, who had no children,
would presume to appear among
those who had? Adding, that his
offerings could never be acceptable
to God, who was judged by him
unworthy to have children; the
Scripture having said, Cursed is
every one who shall not beget a
male in Israel.

10  He further said, that he ought
first to be free from that curse by
begetting some issue, and then
come with his offerings into the
presence of God.

11  But Joachim being much
confounded with the shame of such
reproach, retired to the shepherds
who were with the cattle in their
pastures;

12  For he was not inclined to
return home, lest his neighbours,
who were present and heard all
this from the high-priest, should
publicly reproach him in the same
manner.



CHAPTER II.

     1 An angel appears to Joachim,
     9 and informs him that Anna shall conceive and
     bring forth a daughter, who shall be called Mary,
     11 be brought up in the temple,
     12 and while yet a virgin, in a way unparalleled,
     bring forth the Son of God:
     13 Gives him a sign,
     14 and departs.

BUT when he had been there for
some time, on a certain day
when he was alone, the angel
of the Lord stood by him with
a prodigious light.

2  To whom, being troubled at
the appearance, the angel who had
appeared to him, endeavouring to
compose him, said:

3  Be not afraid, Joachim, nor
troubled at the sight of me, for
I am an angel of the Lord sent by
him to you, that I might inform
you that your prayers are heard,
and your alms ascended in the
sight of God.

4  For he hath surely seen your
shame, and heard you unjustly
reproached for not having children:
for God is the avenger of sin,
and not of nature;

5  And so when he shuts the
womb of any person, he does it for
this reason, that he may in a more
wonderful manner again open it,
and that which is born appear to
be not the product of lust, but the
gift of God.

6  For the first mother of your
nation, Sarah, was she not barren
even till her eightieth year: and
yet even in the end of her old age
brought forth Isaac, in whom the
promise was made of a blessing to
all nations.

7  Rachel, also, so much in
favour with God, and beloved so
much by holy Jacob, continued
barren for a long time, yet
afterwards was the mother of Joseph,
who was not only governor of
Egypt, but delivered many nations
from perishing with hunger.

8  Who among the judges was
more valiant than Sampson, or more
holy than Samuel? And yet both
their mothers were barren.

9  But if reason will not convince
you of the truth of my words, that
there are frequent conceptions in
advanced years, and that those
who were barren have brought forth
to their great surprise; therefore
Anna your wife shall bring you a
daughter, and you shall call her
name Mary;

10  She shall, according to your
vow, be devoted to the Lord from
her infancy, and be filled with the
Holy Ghost from her mother's
womb;

11  She shall neither eat nor
drink any thing which is unclean,
nor shall her conversation be
without among the common people,
but in the temple of the Lord;
that so she may not fall under any
slander or suspicion of what is bad.

12  So in the process of her
years, as she shall be in a
miraculous manner born of one that
was barren, so she shall, while yet
a virgin, in a way unparalleled,
bring forth the Son of the most
High God, who shall, be called
Jesus, and, according to the
signification of his name, be the
Saviour of all nations.

13  And this shall be a sign to
you of the things which I declare,
namely, when you come to the
golden gate of Jerusalem, you
shall there meet your wife Anna,
who being very much troubled
that you returned no sooner, shall
then rejoice to see you.

14  When the angel had said this,
he departed from him.



CHAPTER III.

     1 The angel appears to Anna;
     2 tells her a daughter shall be born unto her,
     3 devoted to the service of the Lord in the temple,
     5, who, being a virgin, and not knowing man,
     shall bring forth the Lord,
     6 and gives her a sign therefore.
     8 Joachim and Anna meet, and rejoice,
     10 and praise the Lord.
     11 Anna conceives, and brings forth a daughter called Mary.

AFTERWARDS the angel appeared
to Anna his wife, saying;
Fear not, neither think that
which you see is a spirit;

2  For I am that angel who hath
offered up your prayers and alms
before God, and am now sent to
you, that I may inform you, that
a daughter will be born unto you,
who shall be called Mary, and
shall be blessed above all women.

3  She shall be, immediately
upon her birth, full of the grace of
the Lord, and shall continue during
the three years of her weaning
in her father's house, and afterwards,
being devoted to the service of the Lord,
shall not depart from the temple,
till she arrive to years of discretion.

4  In a word, she shall there
serve the Lord night and day in
fasting and prayer, shall abstain
from every unclean thing, and
never know any man;

5  But, being an unparalleled instance
without any pollution or defilement,
and a virgin not knowing any man,
shall ring forth a son, and a maid
shall bring forth the Lord, who
both by his grace and name and works,
shall be the Saviour of the world.

6  Arise therefore, and go up to
Jerusalem, and when you shall
come to that which is called the
golden gate (because it is gilt with
gold), as a sign of what I have told
you, you shall meet your husband,
for whose safety you have been so
much concerned.

7  When therefore you find these
things thus accomplished, believe
that all the rest which I have told
you, shall also undoubtedly be
accomplished.

8  According therefore to the
command of the angel, both of
them left the places where they
were, and when they came to the
place specified in the angels
prediction, they met each other.

9  Then, rejoicing at each other's
vision, and being fully satisfied in
the promise of a child, they gave
due thanks to the Lord, who exalts
the humble.

10  After having praised the
Lord, they returned home, and
lived in a cheerful and assured
expectation of the promise of God.

11  So Anna conceived, and
brought forth a daughter, and,
according to the angel's command,
the parents did call her name Mary.



CHAPTER IV.

     1 Mary brought to the temple at three years old.
     6 Ascends the stairs of the temple by miracle.
     8 Her parents sacrifice and return home.

AND when three years were
expired, and the time of her
weaning complete, they brought
the Virgin to the temple of the
Lord with offerings.

2  And there were about the
temple, according to the fifteen
Psalms of degrees, fifteen stairs
to ascend.

3  For the temple being built in
a mountain, the altar of burnt-
offering, which was without, could
not be come near but by stairs;

4  The parents of the blessed
Virgin and infant Mary put her
upon one of these stairs;

5  But while they were putting
off their clothes, in which they had
travelled, and according to custom
putting on some that were more
neat and clean,

6  In the mean time the Virgin
of the Lord in such a manner went
up all the stairs one after another,
without the help of any to lead her
or lift her, that any one would have
judged from hence, that she was of
perfect age.

7  Thus the Lord did, in the
infancy of his Virgin, work this
extraordinary work, and evidence by
this miracle how great she was like
to be hereafter.

8  But the parents having offered
up their sacrifice, according to the
custom of the law, and perfected
their vow, left the Virgin with
other virgins in the apartments of
the temple, who were to be brought
up there, and they returned home.



CHAPTER V.

     2 Mary ministered unto by angels.
     4 The high priest orders all virgins of fourteen
     years old to quit the temple and endeavour to be married.
     5 Mary refuses,
     6 having vowed her virginity to the Lord.
     7 The high-priest commands a meeting of the chief persons
     of Jerusalem,
     11 who seek the Lord for counsel in the matter.
     13 A voice from the mercy-seat.
     15 The high-priest obeys it by ordering all the unmarried
     men of the house of David to bring their rods to the altar,
     17 that his rod which should flower, and on which the
     Spirit of God should sit, should betroth the Virgin.

BUT the Virgin of the Lord, as
she advanced in years, increased
also in perfections, and according
to the saying of the Psalmist,
her father and mother forsook her,
but the Lord took care of her.

2  For she every day had the
conversation of angels, and every
day received visitors from God,
which preserved her from all sorts
of evil, and caused her to abound
with all good things;

3  So that when at length she
arrived to her fourteenth year, as
the wicked could not lay any thing
to her charge worthy of reproof,
so all good persons, who were
acquainted with her, admired her
life and conversation.

4  At that time the high-priest
made a public order, That all the
virgins who had public settlements
in the temple, and were come to
this age, should return home, and,
as they were now of a proper
maturity, should, according to the
custom of their country, endeavour
to be married.

5  To which command, though
all the other virgins readily yielded
obedience, Mary the Virgin of the
Lord alone answered, that she
could not comply with it,

6  Assigning these reasons, that
both she and her parents had
devoted her to the service of the
Lord; and besides, that she had
vowed virginity to the Lord,
which vow she was resolved never
to break through by lying with a
man.

7  The high-priest being hereby
brought into a difficulty,

8  Seeing he durst neither on the
one hand dissolve the vow, and
disobey the Scripture, which says,
Vow and pay,

9  Nor on the other hand
introduce a custom, to which
the people were strangers, commanded,

10  That at the approaching feast
all the principal persons both of
Jerusalem and the neighbouring
places should meet together, that
he might have their advice, how
he had best proceed in so difficult
a case.

11  When they were accordingly
met, they unanimously agreed to
seek the Lord, and ask counsel
from him on this matter.

12  And when they were all
engaged in prayer, the high-priest
according to the usual way, went
to consult God.

13  And immediately there was
a voice from the ark, and the mercy
seat, which all present heard, that
it must be enquired or sought out
by a prophecy of Isaiah, to whom
the Virgin should be given and be
betrothed;

14  For Isaiah saith, there shall
come forth a rod out of the stem of
Jesse, and a flower shall spring
out of its root,

15  And the Spirit of the Lord
shall rest upon him, the Spirit of
Wisdom and Understanding, the
Spirit of Counsel and Might, the
Spirit of Knowledge and Piety,
and the Spirit of the fear of the
Lord shall fill him.

16  Then, according to this
prophecy, he appointed, that all
the men of the house and family
of David, who were marriageable,
and not married, should bring their
several rods to the altar,

17  And out of whatsoever
person's rod after it was brought,
a flower should bud forth, and on
the top of it the Spirit of the Lord
should sit in the appearance of a
dove, he should be the man to
whom the Virgin should be given
and be betrothed.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Joseph draws back his rod.
     5 The dove pitches on it. He betroths Mary and
     returns to Bethlehem.
     7 Mary returns to her parents' house at Galilee.

AMONG the rest there was a
man named Joseph of the
house and family of David, and a
person very far advanced in years,
who kept back his rod, when every
one besides presented his.

2  So that when nothing appeared
agreeable to the heavenly voice,
the high-priest judged it proper to
consult God again.

3  Who answered that he to
whom the Virgin was to be
betrothed was the only person of
those who were brought together,
who had not brought his rod.

4  Joseph therefore was betrayed.

5  For, when he did bring his
rod, and a dove coming from
Heaven pitched upon the top of
it, every one plainly saw, that the
Virgin was to be betrothed to him.

6  Accordingly, the usual
ceremonies of betrothing being over,
he returned to his own city of
Bethlehem, to set his house in
order, and make the needful
provisions for the marriage.

7  But the Virgin of the Lord,
Mary, with seven other virgins of
the same age, who had been weaned
at the same time, and who had
been appointed to attend her by
the priest, returned to her parents'
house in Galilee.


CHAPTER VII.

     7 The salutation of the Virgin by Gabriel, who explains to her
     that she shall conceive, without lying with a man, while a Virgin,
     19 by the Holy Ghost coming upon her without the heats of lust.
     21 She submits.

NOW at this time of her first
coming into Galilee, the
angel Gabriel was sent to her
from God, to declare to her the
conception of our Saviour, and
the manner and way of her
conceiving him.

2  Accordingly going into her,
he filled the chamber where she
was with a prodigious light, and
in a most courteous manner saluting
her, he said,

3  Hail, Mary! Virgin of the
Lord most acceptable!    O Virgin
full of grace! The Lord is with
you. You are blessed above all
women, and you are blessed above
all men, that have been hitherto
born.

4  But the Virgin, who had
before been well acquainted with
the countenances of angels, and
to whom such light from heaven
was no uncommon thing,

5  Was neither terrified with the
vision of the angel, nor astonished
at the greatness of the light, but
only troubled about the angel's
words,

6  And began to consider what
so extraordinary a salutation should
mean, what it did portend, or what
sort of end it would have.

7  To this thought the angel,
divinely inspired, replies;

8  Fear not, Mary, as though
I intended anything inconsistent
with your chastity in this salutation:

9  For you have found favour
with the Lord, because you made
virginity your choice.

10  Therefore while you are a
Virgin, you shall conceive without
sin, and bring forth a son.

11  He shall be great, because
he shall reign from sea to sea, and
from the rivers even to the ends of
the earth?

12  And he shall be called the
Son of the Highest; for he who is
born in a mean state on earth,
reigns in an exalted one in heaven.

13  And the Lord shall give him
the throne of his father David, and
he shall reign over the house of
Jacob for ever, and of his kingdom
there shall be no end.

14  For he is the King of Kings,
and Lord of Lords, and his throne
is forever and ever.

15  To this discourse of the
angel the Virgin replied, not, as
though she were unbelieving, but
willing to know the manner of it.

16  She said, How can that be?
For seeing, according to my vow,
I have never known any man, how
can I bear a child without the
addition of a man's seed.

17  To this the angel replied
and said, Think not, Mary, that
you shall conceive in the ordinary
way.

18  For, without lying with a
man, while a Virgin, you shall
conceive; while a Virgin, you
shall bring forth; and while a
Virgin shall give suck.

19  For the Holy Ghost shall
come upon you, and the power of
the Most High shall overshadow
you, without any of the heats of
lust.

20  So that which shall be born
of you shall be only holy, because
it only is conceived without sin,
and being born, shall be called the
Son of God.

21  Then Mary stretching forth
her hands, and lifting her eyes to
heaven, said, Behold the handmaid
of the Lord! Let it be unto me
according to thy word.



CHAPTER VIII.

     1 Joseph returns to Galilee, to marry the Virgin
     he had betrothed;
     4 perceives she is with child,
     5 is uneasy,
     7 purposes to put her away privily,
     8 is told by the angel of the Lord it is not the
     work of man but the Holy Ghost;
     12 Marries her, but keeps chaste,
     13 removes with her to Bethlehem,
     15 where she brings forth Christ.

JOSEPH therefore went from
Judaea to Galilee, with intention
to marry the Virgin who was
betrothed to him:

2  For it was now near three
months since she was betrothed
to him.

3  At length it plainly appeared
she was with child, and it could
not be hid from Joseph:

4  For going to the Virgin in a
free manner, as one espoused, and
talking familiarly with her, he
perceived her to be with child,

5  And thereupon began to be
uneasy and doubtful, not knowing
what course it would be best to take;

6  For being a just man, he was
not willing to expose her, nor
defame her by the suspicion of
being a harlot, since he was a
pious man:

7  He purposed therefore privately
to put an end to their agreement,
and as privately to send her away.

8  But while he was meditating
these things, behold the angel of
the Lord appeared to him in his
sleep, and said, Joseph, son of
David, fear not;

9  Be not willing to entertain
any suspicion of the Virgin's
being guilty of fornication, or to
think any thing amiss of her,
neither be afraid to take her to wife:

10  For that which is begotten
in her and now distresses your
mind, is not the work of man, but
the Holy Ghost.

11  For she of all women is that
only Virgin who shall bring forth
the Son of God, and you shall call
his name Jesus, that is, Saviour:
for he will save his people from
their sins.

12  Joseph thereupon, according
to the command of the angel,
married the Virgin, and did not
know her, but kept her in chastity.

13  And now the ninth month
from her conception drew near,
when Joseph took his wife and
what other things were necessary
to Bethlehem, the city from whence
he came.

14  And it came to pass, while
they were there, the days were
fulfilled for her bringing forth.

15  And she brought forth her
first-born son, as the holy
Evangelists have taught, even our
Lord Jesus Christ, who with the
Father, Son, and Holy Ghost,
lives and reigns to everlasting ages.



                       REFERENCES TO MARY'S GOSPEL

[In the primitive ages there was a Gospel extant bearing this name,
attributed to St. Matthew, and received as genuine and authentic by
several of the ancient Christian sects. It is to be found in the works
of Jerome, a Father of the Church, who flourished in the fourth century,
from whence the present translation is made. His contemporaries,
Epiphanius, Bishop of Salamis, and Austin also mention a gospel under
this title. The ancient copies differed from Jerome's, for from one of
them the learned Faustus, a native of Britain, who became Bishop of Riez,
in Provence, endeavoured to prove that Christ was not the Son of God till
after his baptism; and that he was not of the house of David and tribe of
Judah, because, according to the Gospel he cited, the Virgin herself was
not of this tribe, but of the tribe of Levi; her father being a priest of
the name of Joachim. It was likewise  from this Gospel that the sect of
the Collyridians established the worship and offering of manchet bread
and cracknels, or fine wafers, as sacrificed to Mary, whom they imagined
to have been born of a Virgin, as Christ is related in the Canonical
Gospels to have been born of her.  Epiphanius likewise cites a passage
concerning the death of Zacharias, which is not in Jerome's copy, viz.:
"That it was the occasion of the death of Zacharias  in the temple, that
when he had seen a vision, he, through surprise, was willing to disclose
it, and his mouth was stopped.  That which he saw was at the time of his
offering incense, and it was a man standing in the form of an ass.
When he was gone out, and had a mind to speak thus to the people, Woe
unto you, whom do you worship? he who had appeared to him in the temple
took away the use of his speech. Afterwards when he recovered it, and was
able to speak, he declared this to the Jews; and they slew him.  They add
(viz. the Gnostics in this book), that on this very  account the
high-priest was appointed by their lawgiver (by God to Moses)  to carry
little bells, that whensoever he went into the temple to sacrifice  he,
whom they worshipped, hearing the noise of the bells, might have time
enough to hide himself, and not be caught in that ugly shape and figure."
The principal part of this Gospel is contained in the Protevangelion of
James  which follows next in order.]








This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>






                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES





                           THE GOSPEL CALLED
                          THE PROTEVANGELION;

Or, an Historical Account of the BIRTH of CHRIST, and the perpetual
VIRGIN MARY, his Mother, by JAMES THE LESSER, Cousin and Brother
of the Lord Jesus, chief Apostle and first Bishop of the Christians in
Jerusalem.



CHAPTER I.

     1 Joachim, a rich man,
     2 offers to the Lord,
     3 is opposed by Reuben the high priest,
     because he has not begotten issue in Israel,
     6 retires into the wilderness and fasts
     forty days and forty nights.


IN the history of the twelve
tribes of Israel we read there
was a certain person called
Joachim, who being very rich, made
double offerings to the Lord God,
having made this resolution:
My substance shall be for the
benefit of the whole people, that
I may find mercy from the Lord
God for the forgiveness of my sins.

2  But at a certain great feast
of  the Lord, when the children of
Israel offered their gifts, and
Joachim also offered his, Reuben the
high-priest opposed him, saying,
it is not lawful for thee to offer
thy gifts, seeing thou hast not
begot any issue in Israel.

3  At this, Joachim being
concerned very much, went away to
consult the registries of the twelve
tribes, to see whether he was the
only person who had begot no
issue.

4  But upon inquiry he found
that all the righteous had raised
up seed in Israel;

5  Then he called to mind the
patriarch Abraham, How that God
in the end of his life had given him
his son Isaac; upon which he was
exceedingly distressed, and would
not be seen by his wife:

6  But retired into the wilderness,
and fixed his tent there, and
fasted forty days and forty nights,
saying to himself,

7  I will not go down either to
eat or drink, till the Lord my
God shall look down upon me, but
prayer shall be my meat and drink.



CHAPTER. II.

     1 Anna, the wife of Joachim mourns her barrennes,
     6 is reproached with it by Judith her maid,
     9 sits under a laurel tree and prays to the Lord.

IN the mean time his wife Anna
was distressed and perplexed
on a double account, and said,
I will mourn both for my widowhood
and my barrenness.

2  Then drew near a great feast
of the Lord, and Judith her maid,
said, How long will you thus
afflict your soul? The feast of
the Lord is now come, when it is
unlawful for any one to mourn.

3  Take therefore this hood
which was given by one who
makes such things, for it is not
fit that I, who am a servant should
wear it, but it well suits a person
of your greater character.

4  But Anna replied, Depart
from me, I am not used to such
things; besides, the Lord hath
greatly humbled me.

5  I fear some ill-designing person
hath given thee this, and thou
art come to reproach me with my sin.

6  Then Judith her maid answered,
what evil shall I wish you,
when you will not hearken to me?

7  I cannot wish you a greater
curse than you are under, in that
God hath shut up your womb, that
you should not be a mother in
Israel.

8  At this Anna was exceedingly
troubled, and having on her wedding
garment, went about three o'clock
in the afternoon to walk in her
garden.

9  And she saw a laurel-tree and
sat under it, and prayed unto the
Lord, saying,

10  O God of my fathers, bless
me and regard my prayer, as thou
didst bless the womb of Sarah;
and gavest her a son Isaac.



CHAPTER III.

     1 Anna perceiving a sparrow's nest in the
     laurels bemoans her barrenness.

AND as she was lookin towards
heaven she perceive a spar-
row's nest in the laurel,

2  And mourning within herself,
she said, Wo is me, who begat
me? and what womb did bear
me, that I should be thus
accursed before the children of
Israel, and that they should
reproach and deride me in the
temple of my God: Wo is me,
to what can I be compared?

3  I am not comparable to the
very beasts of the earth, for even
the beasts of the earth are fruitful
before thee, O Lord! Wo is me,
to what can I be compared?

4  I am not compared to the
brute animal, for even the brute
animals are fruitful before thee,
O Lord! Wo is me, to what am I
comparable?

5  I cannot be comparable to
these waters, for even the waters
are fruitful before thee, O Lord!
Wo is me, to what can I be com-
pared?

6  I am not comparable to the
waves of the sea; for these,
whether they are calm, or in motion,
with the fishes which are in them,
praise thee, O Lord! Wo is me to
what can I be compared?

7  I am not comparable to the
very earth, for the earth produces
its fruits, and praises thee, O Lord!



CHAPTER IV.

     1 An Angel appears to Anna and tells her she shall conceive;
     two angels appear on the same errand.
     5 Joachim sacrifices.
     8 Anna goes to meet him,
     9 rejoicing that she shall conceive.

THEN an angel of the Lord
stood by her and said, Anna,
Anna, the Lord hath heard thy
prayer; thou shalt conceive and
bring forth, and thy progeny shall
be spoken of in all the world.

2  And Anna answered, As the
Lord my God liveth, whatever I
bring forth, whether it be male or
female, I will devote it to the Lord
my God and it shall minister to
him in holy things, during its
whole life.

3  And behold there appeared
two angels, saying unto her,
Behold Joachim thy husband is
coming with his shepherds.


4  For an angel of the Lord
hath also come down to him, and
said, The Lord God hath heard
thy prayer, make haste and go
hence, for behold Anna thy wife
shall conceive.

5  And Joachim went down and
called his shepherds, saying, Bring
me hither ten she-lambs without
spot or blemish, and they shall
be for the Lord my God.

6  And bring me twelve calves
without blemish, and the twelve
calves shall be for the priests and
the elders.

7  Bring me also a hundred
goats, and the hundred goats shall
be for the whole people.

8  And Joachim went down with
the shepherds, and Anna stood
by the gate and saw Joachim
coming with the shepherds.

9  And she ran, and hanging
about his neck, said, Now I know
that the Lord hath greatly blessed
me:

10  For behold, I who was as a
widow am no longer as awidow, and
I who was barren shall conceive.



CHAPTER V.

     1 Joachim abides the first day in his house but
     sacrifices on the morrow.
     2 Consults the plate on the priests forehead,
     3 and is without sin.
     6 Anna brings forth a daughter,
     9 whom she calls Mary.

AND Joachim abode the first
day in his house, but on the
morrow he brought his offerings,
and said,

2  If the Lord be propitious to
me let the plate which is on the
priests forehead make it manifest.

3  And he consulted the plate
which the priest wore, and saw it,
and behold sin was not found in
him.

4  And Joachim said, Now I know
that the Lord is propitious
to me, and hath taken away all
my sins.

5  And he went down from the
temple of the Lord justified,
and he went to his own house.

6  And when nine months were
fulfilled to Anna, she brought
forth, and said to the midwife,
What have I brought forth?

7  And she told her, A girl.

8  Then Anna said, The Lord
hath this day magnified my soul;
and she laid her in bed.

9  And when the days of her
purification were accomplished,
she gave suck to the child; and
called her name Mary.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Mary at nine months old, walks nine steps.
     3 Anna keeps her holy.
     4 When she is a year old, Joachim makes a great feast.
     7 Anna gives her the breast, and sings a song to the Lord.

AND the child increased in
strength every day, so that
when she was nine months old, her
mother put her upon the ground,
to try if she could stand; and
when she had walked nine steps,
she came again to her mother's
lap.

2  Then her mother caught her
up, and said, As the Lord my God
liveth, thou shalt not walk again
on this earth, till I bring thee
into the temple of the Lord.

3  Accordingly she made her
chamber a holy place, and suffered
nothing uncommon or unclean to
come near her, but invited certain
undefiled daughters of Israel, and
they drew her aside.

4  But when the child was a year
old, Joachim made a great feast,
and invited the priests, scribes,
elders, and all the people of
Israel;

5  And Joachim then made an
offering of the girl to the chief-
priests, and they blessed her,
saying, The God of our fathers bless
this girl, and give her a name
famous and lasting through all
generations. And all the people
replied, So be it, Amen:

6  Then Joachim a second time
offered her to the priests, and they
blessed her, saying, O most high
God, regard this girl, and bless
her with an everlasting blessing.

7  Upon this her mother took
her up, and gave her the breast,
and sung the following song to the
Lord.

8  I will sing a song unto the
Lord my God, for he hath visited
me, and taken away from me the
reproach of mine enemies, and
hath given me the fruit of his
righteousness, that it may now be
told the sons of Reuben, that Anna
gives suck.

9  Then she put the child to rest
in the room which she had consecrated,
and she went out and ministered unto
them.

10  And when the feast was
ended, they went away rejoicing,
and praising the God of Israel.



CHAPTER VII.

     3 Mary being three years old, Joachim causes certain virgins to
     light each a lamp, and goes with her to the temple.
     5 The high-priest places her on the third step of the altar, and
     sits dances with her feet.

BUT the girl grew, and when
she was two years old, Joachim
said to Anna, Let us lead her
to the temple of the Lord,
that we may perform our vow,
which we have vowed unto the
Lord God, lest he should be angry
with us, and our offering be
unacceptable.

2  But Anna said, Let us wait
the third year, lest she should
be at a loss to know her father.
And Joachim said, Let us then
wait.

3  And when the child was
three years old, Joachim said,
Let us invite the daughters of the
Hebrews, who are undefiled, and let
them take each a lamp, and let
them be lighted, that the child
may not turn back again, and her
mind be set against the temple of
the Lord,

4  And they did thus till they
ascended into the temple of the Lord.
And the high-priest received her,
and blessed her, and said, Mary,
the Lord God hath magnified thy
name to all generations, and to the
very end of time by thee will the
Lord shew his redemption to the
children of Israel.

5  And he placed her upon the
third step of the altar, and the
Lord gave unto her grace, and she
dance with her feet, and all the
house of Israel loved her.



CHAPTER VIII.

     2 Mary fed in the temple by angels.
     3 When twelve years old the priests consult what to do with her.
     6 The angel of the Lord warns Zacharias to call together all the
     widowers, each bringing a rod.
     7 The people meet by sound of trumpet.
     8 Joseph throws away his hatchet, and goes to the meeting.
     11 A dove comes forth from his rod, and alights on his head.
     12 He is chosen to betroth the Virgin,
     13 refuses because he is an old man,
     14 is compelled,
     16 takes her home, and goes to mind his trade of building.

AND her parents went away
filled with wonder, and praising God,
because the girl did not return back
to them.

2  But Mary continued in the
temple as a dove educated there,
and received her food from the
hand of an angel.

3  And when she was twelve
years of age, the priests met in a
council, and said, Behold, Mary is
twelve years of age, what shall we
do with her, for fear lest the holy
place of the Lord our God should
be defiled?

4  Then replied the priests to
Zacharias the high-priest, Do you
stand at the altar of the Lord, and
enter into the holy place, and make
petitions concerning her, and
whatsoever the Lord shall manifest
unto you, that do.

5  Then the high-priest entered
into the Holy of Holies, and taking
away with him the breast-plate of
judgment made prayers concerning her;

6  And behold the angel of the
Lord came to him, and said,
Zacharias, Zacharias, Go forth and
call together all the widowers
among the people, and let every
one of them bring his rod, and
he by whom the Lord shall shew
a sign shall be the husband of
Mary.

7  And the criers went out
through all Judaea, and the trumpet
of the Lord sounded, and all
the people ran and met together.

8  Joseph also throwing away
his hatchet, went out to meet
them; and when they were met,
they went to the high-priest;
taking every man his rod.

9  After the high-priest had
received their rods, he went
into the temple to pray;

10  And when he had finished
his prayer, he took the rods, and
went forth and distributed them,
and there was no miracle attended
them.

11  The last rod was taken by
Joseph, said behold a dove
proceeded out of the rod, and
flew upon the head of Joseph.

12  And the high-priest said,
Joseph, Thou art the person
chosen to take the Virgin of the
Lord, to keep her for him:

13  But Joseph refused, saying,
I am an old man, and have children,
but she is young, and I fear
lest I should appear ridiculous
in Israel.

14  Then the high-priest replied,
Joseph, Fear the Lord thy God,
and remember how God dealt with
Dathan, Korah, and Abiram, how
the earth opened and swallowed
them up, because of their
contradiction.

15  Now therefore, Joseph, fear
God lest the like things should
happen in your family.

16  Joseph then being afraid,
took her unto his house, and
Joseph said unto Mary, Behold, I
have taken thee from the temple
of the Lord, and now I will leave
thee in my house; I must go to
mind my trade of building. The
Lord be with thee.



CHAPTER IX.

     1 The priests desire a new veil for the temple,
     3 seven virgins cast lots for making different parts of it,
     4 the lot to spin the true purple falls to Mary.
     5 Zacharias, the high priest, becomes dumb.
     7 Mary takes a pot to draw water, and hears a voice,
     8 trembles and begins to work,
     9 an angel Appears and salutes her, and tells her she
     shall conceive by the Holy Ghost,
     17 she submits.
     19 Visits her cousin Elizabeth, whose child in her womb leaps.

AND it came to pass, in a council
of the priests, it was said,
Let us make a new veil for the
temple of the Lord.

2  And the high-priest said,
Call together to me seven undefiled
virgins of the tribe of David.

3  And the servants went and
brought them into the temple of
the Lord, and the high-priest said
unto them, Cast lots before me
now, who of you shall spin the
golden thread, who the blue, who
the scarlet, who the fine linen, and
who the true purple.

4  Then the high-priest knew
Mary; that she was of the tribe of
David; and he called her, and the
true purple fell to her lot to spin,
and she went away to her own
house.

5  But from that time Zacharias
the high-priest became dumb, and
Samuel was placed in his room till
Zacharias spoke again.

6  But Mary took the true purple;
and did spin it.

7  And she took a pot, and
went out to draw water, and heard
a voice saying unto her, Hail thou
who art full of grace, the Lord
is with thee; thou art blessed
among women.

8  And she looked round to the
right and to the left (to see) whence
that voice came, and then trembling
went into her house, and laying
down the water-pot, she took
the purple, and sat down in her
seat to work it.

9  And behold the angel of the
Lord stood by her, and said, Fear
not, Mary, for thou hast found
favour in the sight of God.

10  Which when she heard, she
reasoned with herself what that
sort of salutation meant.

11  And the angel said unto her,
The Lord is with thee, and thou
shalt conceive:

12  To which she replied, What!
shall I conceive by the living God
and bring forth as all other
women do?

13  But the angel returned
answer, Not so, O Mary, but the
Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Most High
shall overshadow thee;

14  Wherefore that which shall
be born of thee shall be holy,
and shall be called the Son of the
Living God, and thou shalt call his
name Jesus; for he shall save his
people from their sins.

15  And behold thy cousin Elizabeth,
she also hath conceived a son in her
old age.

16  And this now is the sixth
month with her, who was called
barren: for nothing is impossible
with God.

17  And Mary said, Behold the
handmaid of the Lord; let it be
unto me according to thy word.

18  And when she had wrought
her purple, she carried it to the
high-priest, and the high-priest
blessed her, saying, Mary, the
Lord God hath magnified thy name,
and thou shalt be blessed in all the
ages of the world.

19  Then Mary, filled with joy,
went away to her cousin Elizabeth,
and knocked at the door.

20  Which when Elizabeth heard,
she ran and opened to her, and
blessed her, and said, Whence is
this to me, that the mother of my
Lord should come unto me?

21  For lo! as soon as the voice
of thy salutation reached my ears,
that which is in me leaped and
blessed thee.

22  But Mary, being ignorant of
all those mysterious things which
the archangel Gabriel had spoken
to her, lifted up her eyes to heaven,
and said, Lord! What am I, that
all the generations of the earth
should call me blessed?

23  But perceiving herself daily
to grow big, and being afraid, she
went home, and hid herself from
the children of Israel; and was
fourteen years old when all these
things happened.



CHAPTER X.

     1 Joseph returns from building houses, finds the Virgin
     grown big, being six months gone with child,
     2 is jealous and troubled,
     8 reproaches her,
     10 she affirms her innocence,
     13 he leaves her,
     16 determines to dismiss her privately,
     17 is warned in a dream that Mary is with child by the Holy Ghost,
     20 and glorifies God who had shewn him such favour.

AND when her sixth month was
come, Joseph returned from
his building houses abroad, which
was his trade, and entering into the
house, found the Virgin grown big:

2  Then smiting upon his face,
he said, With what face can I look
up to the Lord my God? or, what
shall I say concerning this young
woman?

3  For I received her a Virgin
out of the temple of the Lord my
God, and have not preserved her
such!

4  Who has thus deceived me?
Who has committed this evil in
my house, and seducing the Virgin
from me, hath defiled her?

5  Is not the history of Adam exactly
accomplished in me?

6  For in the very instant of his
glory, the serpent came and found
Eve alone, and seduced her.

7  Just after the same manner it
has happened to me.

8  Then Joseph arising from the
ground, called her, and said, O
thou who hast been so much
favoured by God, why hast thou
done this?

9  Why hast thou thus debased
thy soul, who wast educated in the
Holy of Holies, and received thy
food from the hand of angels?

10  But she, with a flood of tears,
replied, I am innocent, and have
known no man.

11  Then said Joseph, How
comes it to pass you are with
child?

12  Mary answered, As the Lord
my God liveth, I know not by what
means.

13  Then Joseph was exceedingly afraid,
and went ay from her, considering
what he should do with her;
and he thus reasoned with himself:

14  If I conceal her crime, I shall
be found guilty by the law of the
Lord;

15  And if I discover her to the
children of Israel, I fear, lest
she being with child by an angel,
I shall be found to betray the life
of an innocent person.

16  What therefore shall I do?
I will privately dismiss her.

17  Then the night was come
upon him, when behold an angel
of the Lord appeared to him in a
dream, and said,

18  Be not afraid to take that
young woman, for that which is
within her is of the Holy Ghost,

19  And she shall bring forth
a son, and thou shalt call his name
Jesus, for he shall save his people
from their sins.

20 Then Joseph arose from his
sleep, and glorified the God of
Israel, who had shewn him such
favour, and preserved the Virgin.



CHAPTER XI.

     3 Annas visits Joseph, perceives the Virgin big with child,
     4 informs the high priest that Joseph had privately married her.
     8 Joseph and Mary brought to trial on the charge.
     17 Joseph drinks the water of the Lord as an ordeal,
     and receiving no harm, returns home.

THEN came Annas the scribe,
and said to Joseph, Wherefore
have we not seen you since
your return?

2  And Joseph replied, Because
I was weary after my journey, and
rested the first day.

3  But Annas turning about
perceived the Virgin big with child.

4 And went away to the priest,
and told him, Joseph in whom you
placed so much confidence, is
guilty of a notorious crime, in
that he hath defiled the Virgin
whom he received out of the temple
of the Lord, and hath privately
married her, not discovering it to
the children of Israel.

5  Then said the priest, Hath
Joseph done this?

6  Annas replied, If you send
any of your servants you will find
that she is with child.

7  And the servants went, and
found it as he said.

8  Upon this both she and Joseph
were brought to their trial, and
the priest said unto her, Mary,
what hast thou done?

9  Why hast thou debased thy
soul, and forgot thy God, seeing
thou wast brought up in the Holy
of Holies, and didst receive thy
food from the hands of angels, and
heardest their songs?

10  Why hast thou done this?

11  To which with a flood of
tears she answered, As the Lord
my God liveth, I am innocent in
his sight, seeing I know no man.

12  Then the priest said to Joseph,
Why hast thou done this?

13  And Joseph answered, As
the Lord my God liveth, I have
not been concerned with her.

14  But the priest said, Lie not,
but declare the truth; thou hast
privately married her, and not
discovered it to the children of
Israel, and humbled thyself under
the mighty hand (of God), that thy
seed might be blessed:

15  And Joseph was silent.

16  Then said the priest
(to Joseph), You must restore to
the temple of the Lord the Virgin
which you took thence.

17  But he wept bitterly, and the
priest added, I will cause you both
to drink the water of the Lord,
which is for trial, and so your
iniquity shall be laid open before
you.--[bitter water that causeth the curse]

18  Then the priest took the water,
and made Joseph drink, and sent him
to a mountainous place,

19  And he returned perfectly
well, and all the people wondered
that his guilt was not discovered.

20  So the priest said, Since the
Lord hath not made your sins
evident, neither do I condemn
you.

21 So he sent them away.

22 Then Joseph took Mary, and
went to his house, rejoicing and
praising the God of Israel.



CHAP. XII.

     1 A decree from Augustus for taxing the Jews.
     5 Joseph puts Mary on an ass, to return to Bethlehem,
     6 she looks sorrowful,
     7 she laughs,
     8 Joseph inquires the cause of each,
     9 she tells him she sees two persons,
     one mourning and the other rejoicing.
     10 The delivery being near, he takes her
     from the ass, and places her in a cave.

AND it came to pass, that there
went forth a decree from
the Emperor Augustus, that all
the Jews should be taxed, who
were of Bethlehem in Judaea.

2  And Joseph said, I will take
care that my children be taxed;
but what shall I do with this young
woman?

3  To have her taxed as my wife
I am ashamed; and if I tax her as
my daughter, all Israel knows she
is not my daughter.

4  When the time of the Lord's
appointment shall come, let him do
as seems good to him.

5  And he saddled the ass, and
put her upon it, and Joseph and
Simon followed after her, and
arrived at Bethlehem within three
miles.

6  Then Joseph turning about
saw Mary sorrowful, and said
within himself, Perhaps she is in
pain through that which is within
her.

7  But when he turned about
again, he saw her laughing, and
said to her,

8  Mary, how happens it, that I
sometimes see sorrow, and sometimes
laughter and joy in thy countenance?

9  And Mary replied to him,
I see two people with mine eyes,
the one weeping and mourning,
the other laughing and rejoicing.

10  And he went again across
the way, and Mary said to Joseph,
Take me down from the ass, for
that which is in me presses to come
forth.

11  But Joseph replied, Whither
shall I take thee? for the place is
a desert.

12 Then said Mary again to Joseph,
take me down, for that which is
within me mightily presses me.

13 And Joseph took her down.

14 And he found there a cave,
and let her into it.



CHAPTER XIII.

     1 Joseph seeks a Hewbrew midwife,
     2 perceives the owls stopping in their flight,
     3 the working people at their food not moving,
     8 the sheep standing still,
     9 the shepherd fixed and immoveable,
     10 and kids with their mouths touching
     the water but not drinking.

AND leaving her and his sons
in the cave, Joseph went
forth to seek a Hebrew midwife in
the village of Bethlehem.

2  But as I was going (said Jo-
seph), I looked up into the air,
and I saw the clouds astonished,
and the fowls of the air stopping in
the midst of their flight.

3  And I looked down towards
the earth, and saw a table spread,
and working people sitting around
it, but their hands were upon the
table and they did not move to
eat.

4  They who had meat in their
mouths did not eat.

5  They who lifted their hands
up to their heads did not draw
them back,

6  And they who lifted them up
to their mouths did not put any
thing in;

7  But all their faces were fixed
upwards.

8  And I beheld the sheep dispersed,
and yet the sheep stood still.

9  And the shepherd lifted up
his hand to smite them, and his
hand continued up.

10  And I looked unto a river,
and saw the kids with their mouths
close to the water, and touching it,
but they did not drink.



CHAPTER XIV.

     1 Joseph finds a midwife.
     10 A bright cloud overshadows the cave.
     11 A great light in the cave, gradually
     increases until the infant is born.
     13 The mid-wife goes out, and tells Salome
     that she has seen a virgin bring forth.
     17 Salome doubts it.
     20 her hand withers,
     22 she supplicates the Lord,
     28 is cured,
     30 but warned not to declare what she had seen.

THEN I beheld a woman coming
down from the mountains,
and she said to me, Where art thou
going, O man?

2  And I said to her, I go to
enquire for a Hebrew midwife.

3  She replied to me, Where is
the woman that is to be delivered?

4  And I answered, In the cave,
and she is betrothed to me.

5  Then said the midwife, Is she
not thy wife?

6  Joseph answered, It is Mary,
who was educated in the Holy of
Holies, in the house of the Lord,
and she fell to me by lot, and is
not my wife, but has conceived by
the Holy Ghost.

7  The midwife said, Is this true?

8  He answered, Come and see.

9  And the midwife went along
with him, and stood in the cave.

10  Then a bright cloud over-
shadowed the cave, and the mid-
wife said, This day my soul is
magnified, for mine eyes have seen
surprising things, and salvation is
brought forth to Israel.

11  But on a sudden the cloud
became a great light in the cave,
so that their eyes could not bear it.

12  But the light gradually
decreased, until the infant appeared,
and sucked the breast of his mother,
Mary.

13  Then the midwife cried out,
and said, How glorious a day is
this, wherein mine eyes have seen
this extraordinary sight!

14  And the midwife went out
from the cave, and Salome met
her.

15  And the midwife said to her,
Salome, Salome, I will tell you a
most surprising thing which I saw,

16  A virgin hath brought forth,
which is a thing contrary to
nature.

17  To which Salome replied, As
the Lord my God liveth unless I
receive particular proof of this
matter, I will not believe that a
virgin hath brought forth.

18  If Then Salome went in, and
the midwife said, Mary, shew thyself,
for a controversy is risen
concerning thee.

19  And Salome received satisfaction.

20  But her hand was withered,
and she groaned bitterly;

21  And said, Woe to me, because
of mine iniquity; for I have
tempted the living God, and my
hand is ready to drop off.

22 Then Salome made her
supplication to the Lord, and said,
O God of my Fathers, remember me,
for I am of the seed of Abraham,
and Isaac, and Jacob.

23  Make me not a reproach
among the children of Israel, but
restore me sound to my parents.

24  For thou well knowest,
O Lord, that I have performed many
offices of charity in thy name,
and have received my reward from
thee.

25  Upon this an angel of the
Lord stood by Salome, and said,
The Lord God hath heard thy
prayer, reach forth thy hand to
the child, and carry him, and by
that means thou shalt be restored.

26  Salome filled with exceeding
joy, went to the child, and said,
I will touch him.

27  And she purposed to worship
him, for she said, This is a great
king, which is born in Israel.

28  And straightway Salome was
cured.

29  Then the midwife went out
of the cave, being approved by God.

30  And lo! a voice came to Salome.
Declare not the strange things
which thou hast seen, till
the child shall come to Jerusalem.

31  So Salome also departed,
approved by God.



CHAPTER XV.

     1 Wise men come from the east.
     3 Herod alarmed;
     8 desires them if they find the child to bring him word.
     10 They visit the cave and offer the child their treasure,
     11 and being warned in a dream, do not return to Herod,
     but go home another way.

THEN Joseph was preparing to
go away, because there arose
a great disorder in Bethlehem by
the coming of some wise men
from the east,

2  Who said, Where is the King
of the Jews born?  For we have
seen his star in the east, and are
come to worship him.

3  When Herod heard this, he
was exceedingly troubled, and sent
messengers to the wise men, and
to the priests, and enquired of
them in the town-hall,

4  And said unto them, Where
have you it written concerning
Christ the king, or where should
he be born?

5  Then they say unto him, In
Bethlehem of Judaea; for thus it
is written: And thou Bethlehem in
the land of Judah, art not the least
among the princes of Judah, for
out of thee shall come a ruler,
who shall rule my people Israel.

6  And having sent away the
chief priests, he enquired of the
wise men in the town-hall, and
said unto them, What sign was it
ye saw concerning the king that is
born?

7  They answered him, We saw
an extraordinary large star shining
among the stars of heaven, and so
out-shined all the other stars, as
that they became not visible, and
we knew thereby that a great king
was born in Israel, and therefore
we are come to worship him.

8  Then said Herod to them, Go
and make diligent inquiry; and if
ye find the child, bring me word
again, that I may come and worship
him also.

9  So the wise men went forth,
and behold, the star which they
saw in the east went before them,
till it came and stood over the cave
where the young child was with
Mary his mother.

10  Then they brought forth out
of their treasures, and offered unto
him gold and frankincense, and
myrrh.

11  And being warned in a dream
by an angel, that they should not
return to Herod through Judaea,
they departed into their own country
by another way.



CHAPTER XVI.

     1 Herod enraged, orders the infants in Bethlehem to be slain.
     2 Mary puts her infant in an ox-manger.
     3 Elizabeth flees with her son John to the mountains.
     6 A mountain miraculously divides and receives them.
     9 Herod incensed at the escape of John, causes Zacharias
     to be murdered at the altar.
     23 The roofs of the temple rent, the body miraculously
     conveyed, and the blood petrified.
     25 Israel mourns for him.
     27 Simeon chosen his successor by lot.

THEN Herod perceiving that
he was mocked by the wise
men, and being very angry,
commanded certain men to go and
to kill all the children that were
in Bethlehem, from two years old
and under.

2  But Mary hearing that the
children were to be, killed, being
under much fear, took the child,
and wrapped him up in swaddling
clothes, and laid him in an ox-
manger, because there was no
room for them in the inn.

3  Elizabeth also, hearing that
her son John was about to be
searched for; took him and went
up unto the mountains, and looked
around for a place to hide him;

4  And there was no secret place
to be found.

5  Then she groaned within herself,
and said, O mountain of the Lord,
receive the mother with the child.

6  For Elizabeth could not climb up,

7  And instantly the mountain
was divided and received them.

8  And there appeared to them
an angel of the Lord to preserve
them.

9  But Herod made search after
John, and sent servants to Zacharias,
when he was (ministering) at the altar,
and said unto him, Were hast thou hid
thy son?

10  He replied, to them, I am a
minister of God, and a servant at
the altar: how should I know
where my son is?

11  So the servants went back,
and told Herod the whole; at
which he was incensed, and said,
Is not this son of his like to be
king of Israel?

12  He sent therefore again his
servants to Zacharias, saying, Tell
us the truth, where is thy son, for
you know that your life is in my
hand.

13  So the servants went and told
him all this:

14  But Zacharias replied to
them, I am a martyr for God, and
if ye skied my blood, the Lord will
receive my soul.

15  Besides know that ye shed
innocent blood.

16  However Zacharias was murdered
in the entrance of the temple
said altar, and about the partition;

17  But the children of Israel
knew not when he want killed.

18  Then at the hour of salutation
the pnests went into the temple
but Zacharias did not according
to custom, meet them and bless them.

19  Yet they still continued
waiting for him to salute them;

20  And when they found he did
not in a long time come, one of
them ventured into the holy place
where the altar was, and he saw
blood lying upon the ground
congealed:

21  When, behold, a voice from
heaven said, Zacharias is murdered,
and his blood shall not be
wiped away, until the revenger
of his blood come.

22  But when he heard this, he
was afraid; and went forth and told
the priests what he had seen and
heard; and they all went in, and
saw the fact.

23  Then the roofs of the temple
howled, and were rent from the
top to the bottom:

24  And they could not find the
body, but only blood made hard
like stone.

25  And they went away, and
told the people, that Zacharias
was murdered, and all the tribes
of Israel heard thereof, and mourned
for him, and lamented three days:

26  Then the priests took
council together concerning
a person to succeed him.

27  And Simeon and the other
priests cast lots, and the lot fell
upon Simeon.

28  For he had been assured by
the Holy Spirit, that he should not
die, till he had seen Christ come in
the flesh.

     (I James wrote this History in Jerusalem: and when the disturbance
     was I retired into a desert place, until the death of Herod, and the
     disturbances ceased at Jerusalem. That which remains is, that I
     glorify God that he hath given me such wisdom to write unto you who
     are spiritual, and who love God: to whom (be ascribed) glory and
     dominion for ever and ever. Amen.)




                          THE PROTEVANGELION.
              Note on the death of Zacharias in, Chap. 16.

There is a story both in the Jerusalem and Babylonish Talmud very similar
to this. It is cited by Dr. Lightfoot, Talmud, Hierosol, in Taanith, fol.
69; and  Talmud. Babyl. in Sanhedr., fol. 96.  "O Rabbi Jochanan said,
Eighty thousand priests were slain for the blood of Zacharias. Rabbi
Judas asked Rabbi Achan, Where did they kill Zacharias? Was it in the
woman's court, or in the court of Israel? He answered, Neither in the
court of Israel, nor in the court of women, but in the court of the
priests; and they did not treat his blood in the same manner as they were
wont to treat the blood of a ram or young goat.   For of these it is
written, He shall pour out his blood, and cover it with dust. But it is
written  here, The blood is in the midst of her: she set it upon the top
of a rock; she poured it not upon the ground. (Ezek. xxiv. 7.) But why
was this? That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance: I have
set his blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered.
They committed seven evils that day: they murdered a priest, a prophet,
and a king; they shed the blood of the innocent they polluted the court:
that day was the Sabbath: and the day of expiation.  When therefore
Nebuzaradan came there (viz. to Jerusalem,) he saw his blood  bubbling,
and said to them, What meaneth this? They answered, It is the blood of
calves, lambs, and rams, which we have offered upon the altar. He
commanded  then, that they should bring calves, and lambs, and rams, and
said I will try  whether this be their blood: accordingly they brought
and slew them, but the blood of Zacharias still bubbled, but the blood of
these did not bubble. Then he  said, Declare to me the truth of this
matter, or else I will comb your flesh with iron combs. Then said they to
him, He was a priest, prophet, and judge, who prophesied to Israel all
these calamities which we have suffered from you; but we arose against
him, and slew him.  Then, said he, I will appease him then he  took the
rabbins and slew them upon his (viz. Zacharias's) blood, and he was not
yet appeased. Next he took the young boys from the schools, and slew them
upon his blood; and yet it bubbled. Then he brought the young priests and
slew them  in the-same place, and yet it still bubbled. So he slew at
length ninety-four thousand persons upon his blood, and it did not as yet
cease bubbling, then he drew  near to it, and said, O Zacharias,
Zacharias, thou halt occasioned the death of the  chief of thy
countrymen, shall I slay them all? then the blood ceased, and did bubble
no more."




                    REFERENCES TO THE PROTEVANGELION.

[This Gospel is ascribed to James. The allusions to it in the ancient
Fathers are  frequent, and their expressions indicate that it had
obtained a very general credit in the Christian world. The controversies
founded upon it chiefly  relate to the age of Joseph at the birth of
Christ, and to his being a widower with children, before his marriage
with the Virgin. It seems material to remark, that the legends of the
latter ages affirm the virginity of Joseph, notwithstanding Epiphanius,
Hilary, Chrysostom, Cyril, Euthymius, Thephylaet, Occumenius, and indeed
all the Latin Fathers till Ambrose, and the Greek Fathers afterwards,
maintain the opinions of Joseph's age and family, founded upon their
belief in the authenticity of this book. It is supposed to have been
originally composed in Hebrew. Postellus brought the MS. of this Gospel
from the Levant, translated it into Latin, and sent it to Oporimus,
a printer at Basil, where Bibliander, a Protesfant Divine, and the
Professor of Divinity at Zurich, caused it to be printed in 1552.
Postellus asserts that it was publicly read as canonical in the eastern
churches they making no doubt that James was the author, of it. It is,
nevertheless consicered apocryphal by some of the most learned divines in
the Protestant and Catholic churches.]








This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>
Additional proofing was done by Curtis A. Weyant





                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES





                           THE GOSPEL CALLED
                          THE PROTEVANGELION;

Or, an Historical Account of the BIRTH of CHRIST, and the perpetual
VIRGIN MARY, his Mother, by JAMES THE LESSER, Cousin and Brother
of the Lord Jesus, chief Apostle and first Bishop of the Christians in
Jerusalem.



CHAPTER I.

     1 Joachim, a rich man,
     2 offers to the Lord,
     3 is opposed by Reuben the high priest,
     because he has not begotten issue in Israel,
     6 retires into the wilderness and fasts
     forty days and forty nights.


IN the history of the twelve
tribes of Israel we read there
was a certain person called
Joachim, who being very rich, made
double offerings to the Lord God,
having made this resolution:
My substance shall be for the
benefit of the whole people, that
I may find mercy from the Lord
God for the forgiveness of my sins.

2  But at a certain great feast
of  the Lord, when the children of
Israel offered their gifts, and
Joachim also offered his, Reuben the
high-priest opposed him, saying,
it is not lawful for thee to offer
thy gifts, seeing thou hast not
begot any issue in Israel.

3  At this, Joachim being
concerned very much, went away to
consult the registries of the twelve
tribes, to see whether he was the
only person who had begot no
issue.

4  But upon inquiry he found
that all the righteous had raised
up seed in Israel;

5  Then he called to mind the
patriarch Abraham, How that God
in the end of his life had given him
his son Isaac; upon which he was
exceedingly distressed, and would
not be seen by his wife:

6  But retired into the wilderness,
and fixed his tent there, and
fasted forty days and forty nights,
saying to himself,

7  I will not go down either to
eat or drink, till the Lord my
God shall look down upon me, but
prayer shall be my meat and drink.



CHAPTER. II.

     1 Anna, the wife of Joachim mourns her barrenness,
     6 is reproached with it by Judith her maid,
     9 sits under a laurel tree and prays to the Lord.

IN the mean time his wife Anna
was distressed and perplexed
on a double account, and said,
I will mourn both for my widowhood
and my barrenness.

2  Then drew near a great feast
of the Lord, and Judith her maid,
said, How long will you thus
afflict your soul? The feast of
the Lord is now come, when it is
unlawful for any one to mourn.

3  Take therefore this hood
which was given by one who
makes such things, for it is not
fit that I, who am a servant should
wear it, but it well suits a person
of your greater character.

4  But Anna replied, Depart
from me, I am not used to such
things; besides, the Lord hath
greatly humbled me.

5  I fear some ill-designing person
hath given thee this, and thou
art come to reproach me with my sin.

6  Then Judith her maid answered,
what evil shall I wish you,
when you will not hearken to me?

7  I cannot wish you a greater
curse than you are under, in that
God hath shut up your womb, that
you should not be a mother in
Israel.

8  At this Anna was exceedingly
troubled, and having on her wedding
garment, went about three o'clock
in the afternoon to walk in her
garden.

9  And she saw a laurel-tree and
sat under it, and prayed unto the
Lord, saying,

10  O God of my fathers, bless
me and regard my prayer, as thou
didst bless the womb of Sarah;
and gavest her a son Isaac.



CHAPTER III.

     1 Anna perceiving a sparrow's nest in the
     laurels bemoans her barrenness.

AND as she was looking towards
heaven she perceive a sparrow's
nest in the laurel,

2  And mourning within herself,
she said, Wo is me, who begat
me? and what womb did bear
me, that I should be thus
accursed before the children of
Israel, and that they should
reproach and deride me in the
temple of my God: Wo is me,
to what can I be compared?

3  I am not comparable to the
very beasts of the earth, for even
the beasts of the earth are fruitful
before thee, O Lord! Wo is me,
to what can I be compared?

4  I am not compared to the
brute animal, for even the brute
animals are fruitful before thee,
O Lord! Wo is me, to what am I
comparable?

5  I cannot be comparable to
these waters, for even the waters
are fruitful before thee, O Lord!
Wo is me, to what can I be compared?

6  I am not comparable to the
waves of the sea; for these,
whether they are calm, or in motion,
with the fishes which are in them,
praise thee, O Lord! Wo is me to
what can I be compared?

7  I am not comparable to the
very earth, for the earth produces
its fruits, and praises thee, O Lord!



CHAPTER IV.

     1 An Angel appears to Anna and tells her she shall conceive;
     two angels appear on the same errand.
     5 Joachim sacrifices.
     8 Anna goes to meet him,
     9 rejoicing that she shall conceive.

THEN an angel of the Lord
stood by her and said, Anna,
Anna, the Lord hath heard thy
prayer; thou shalt conceive and
bring forth, and thy progeny shall
be spoken of in all the world.

2  And Anna answered, As the
Lord my God liveth, whatever I
bring forth, whether it be male or
female, I will devote it to the Lord
my God and it shall minister to
him in holy things, during its
whole life.

3  And behold there appeared
two angels, saying unto her,
Behold Joachim thy husband is
coming with his shepherds.


4  For an angel of the Lord
hath also come down to him, and
said, The Lord God hath heard
thy prayer, make haste and go
hence, for behold Anna thy wife
shall conceive.

5  And Joachim went down and
called his shepherds, saying, Bring
me hither ten she-lambs without
spot or blemish, and they shall
be for the Lord my God.

6  And bring me twelve calves
without blemish, and the twelve
calves shall be for the priests and
the elders.

7  Bring me also a hundred
goats, and the hundred goats shall
be for the whole people.

8  And Joachim went down with
the shepherds, and Anna stood
by the gate and saw Joachim
coming with the shepherds.

9  And she ran, and hanging
about his neck, said, Now I know
that the Lord hath greatly blessed
me:

10  For behold, I who was as a
widow am no longer as a widow, and
I who was barren shall conceive.



CHAPTER V.

     1 Joachim abides the first day in his house but
     sacrifices on the morrow.
     2 Consults the plate on the priests forehead,
     3 and is without sin.
     6 Anna brings forth a daughter,
     9 whom she calls Mary.

AND Joachim abode the first
day in his house, but on the
morrow he brought his offerings,
and said,

2  If the Lord be propitious to
me let the plate which is on the
priests forehead make it manifest.

3  And he consulted the plate
which the priest wore, and saw it,
and behold sin was not found in
him.

4  And Joachim said, Now I know
that the Lord is propitious
to me, and hath taken away all
my sins.

5  And he went down from the
temple of the Lord justified,
and he went to his own house.

6  And when nine months were
fulfilled to Anna, she brought
forth, and said to the midwife,
What have I brought forth?

7  And she told her, A girl.

8  Then Anna said, The Lord
hath this day magnified my soul;
and she laid her in bed.

9  And when the days of her
purification were accomplished,
she gave suck to the child; and
called her name Mary.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Mary at nine months old, walks nine steps.
     3 Anna keeps her holy.
     4 When she is a year old, Joachim makes a great feast.
     7 Anna gives her the breast, and sings a song to the Lord.

AND the child increased in
strength every day, so that
when she was nine months old, her
mother put her upon the ground,
to try if she could stand; and
when she had walked nine steps,
she came again to her mother's
lap.

2  Then her mother caught her
up, and said, As the Lord my God
liveth, thou shalt not walk again
on this earth, till I bring thee
into the temple of the Lord.

3  Accordingly she made her
chamber a holy place, and suffered
nothing uncommon or unclean to
come near her, but invited certain
undefiled daughters of Israel, and
they drew her aside.

4  But when the child was a year
old, Joachim made a great feast,
and invited the priests, scribes,
elders, and all the people of
Israel;

5  And Joachim then made an
offering of the girl to the chief-
priests, and they blessed her,
saying, The God of our fathers bless
this girl, and give her a name
famous and lasting through all
generations. And all the people
replied, So be it, Amen:

6  Then Joachim a second time
offered her to the priests, and they
blessed her, saying, O most high
God, regard this girl, and bless
her with an everlasting blessing.

7  Upon this her mother took
her up, and gave her the breast,
and sung the following song to the
Lord.

8  I will sing a song unto the
Lord my God, for he hath visited
me, and taken away from me the
reproach of mine enemies, and
hath given me the fruit of his
righteousness, that it may now be
told the sons of Reuben, that Anna
gives suck.

9  Then she put the child to rest
in the room which she had consecrated,
and she went out and ministered unto
them.

10  And when the feast was
ended, they went away rejoicing,
and praising the God of Israel.



CHAPTER VII.

     3 Mary being three years old, Joachim causes certain virgins to
     light each a lamp, and goes with her to the temple.
     5 The high-priest places her on the third step of the altar, and
     sits dances with her feet.

BUT the girl grew, and when
she was two years old, Joachim
said to Anna, Let us lead her
to the temple of the Lord,
that we may perform our vow,
which we have vowed unto the
Lord God, lest he should be angry
with us, and our offering be
unacceptable.

2  But Anna said, Let us wait
the third year, lest she should
be at a loss to know her father.
And Joachim said, Let us then
wait.

3  And when the child was
three years old, Joachim said,
Let us invite the daughters of the
Hebrews, who are undefiled, and let
them take each a lamp, and let
them be lighted, that the child
may not turn back again, and her
mind be set against the temple of
the Lord,

4  And they did thus till they
ascended into the temple of the Lord.
And the high-priest received her,
and blessed her, and said, Mary,
the Lord God hath magnified thy
name to all generations, and to the
very end of time by thee will the
Lord shew his redemption to the
children of Israel.

5  And he placed her upon the
third step of the altar, and the
Lord gave unto her grace, and she
dance with her feet, and all the
house of Israel loved her.



CHAPTER VIII.

     2 Mary fed in the temple by angels.
     3 When twelve years old the priests consult what to do with her.
     6 The angel of the Lord warns Zacharias to call together all the
     widowers, each bringing a rod.
     7 The people meet by sound of trumpet.
     8 Joseph throws away his hatchet, and goes to the meeting.
     11 A dove comes forth from his rod, and alights on his head.
     12 He is chosen to betroth the Virgin,
     13 refuses because he is an old man,
     14 is compelled,
     16 takes her home, and goes to mind his trade of building.

AND her parents went away
filled with wonder, and praising God,
because the girl did not return back
to them.

2  But Mary continued in the
temple as a dove educated there,
and received her food from the
hand of an angel.

3  And when she was twelve
years of age, the priests met in a
council, and said, Behold, Mary is
twelve years of age, what shall we
do with her, for fear lest the holy
place of the Lord our God should
be defiled?

4  Then replied the priests to
Zacharias the high-priest, Do you
stand at the altar of the Lord, and
enter into the holy place, and make
petitions concerning her, and
whatsoever the Lord shall manifest
unto you, that do.

5  Then the high-priest entered
into the Holy of Holies, and taking
away with him the breast-plate of
judgment made prayers concerning her;

6  And behold the angel of the
Lord came to him, and said,
Zacharias, Zacharias, Go forth and
call together all the widowers
among the people, and let every
one of them bring his rod, and
he by whom the Lord shall shew
a sign shall be the husband of
Mary.

7  And the criers went out
through all Judaea, and the trumpet
of the Lord sounded, and all
the people ran and met together.

8  Joseph also throwing away
his hatchet, went out to meet
them; and when they were met,
they went to the high-priest;
taking every man his rod.

9  After the high-priest had
received their rods, he went
into the temple to pray;

10  And when he had finished
his prayer, he took the rods, and
went forth and distributed them,
and there was no miracle attended
them.

11  The last rod was taken by
Joseph, said behold a dove
proceeded out of the rod, and
flew upon the head of Joseph.

12  And the high-priest said,
Joseph, Thou art the person
chosen to take the Virgin of the
Lord, to keep her for him:

13  But Joseph refused, saying,
I am an old man, and have children,
but she is young, and I fear
lest I should appear ridiculous
in Israel.

14  Then the high-priest replied,
Joseph, Fear the Lord thy God,
and remember how God dealt with
Dathan, Korah, and Abiram, how
the earth opened and swallowed
them up, because of their
contradiction.

15  Now therefore, Joseph, fear
God lest the like things should
happen in your family.

16  Joseph then being afraid,
took her unto his house, and
Joseph said unto Mary, Behold, I
have taken thee from the temple
of the Lord, and now I will leave
thee in my house; I must go to
mind my trade of building. The
Lord be with thee.



CHAPTER IX.

     1 The priests desire a new veil for the temple,
     3 seven virgins cast lots for making different parts of it,
     4 the lot to spin the true purple falls to Mary.
     5 Zacharias, the high priest, becomes dumb.
     7 Mary takes a pot to draw water, and hears a voice,
     8 trembles and begins to work,
     9 an angel Appears and salutes her, and tells her she
     shall conceive by the Holy Ghost,
     17 she submits.
     19 Visits her cousin Elizabeth, whose child in her womb leaps.

AND it came to pass, in a council
of the priests, it was said,
Let us make a new veil for the
temple of the Lord.

2  And the high-priest said,
Call together to me seven undefiled
virgins of the tribe of David.

3  And the servants went and
brought them into the temple of
the Lord, and the high-priest said
unto them, Cast lots before me
now, who of you shall spin the
golden thread, who the blue, who
the scarlet, who the fine linen, and
who the true purple.

4  Then the high-priest knew
Mary; that she was of the tribe of
David; and he called her, and the
true purple fell to her lot to spin,
and she went away to her own
house.

5  But from that time Zacharias
the high-priest became dumb, and
Samuel was placed in his room till
Zacharias spoke again.

6  But Mary took the true purple;
and did spin it.

7  And she took a pot, and
went out to draw water, and heard
a voice saying unto her, Hail thou
who art full of grace, the Lord
is with thee; thou art blessed
among women.

8  And she looked round to the
right and to the left (to see) whence
that voice came, and then trembling
went into her house, and laying
down the water-pot, she took
the purple, and sat down in her
seat to work it.

9  And behold the angel of the
Lord stood by her, and said, Fear
not, Mary, for thou hast found
favour in the sight of God.

10  Which when she heard, she
reasoned with herself what that
sort of salutation meant.

11  And the angel said unto her,
The Lord is with thee, and thou
shalt conceive:

12  To which she replied, What!
shall I conceive by the living God
and bring forth as all other
women do?

13  But the angel returned
answer, Not so, O Mary, but the
Holy Ghost shall come upon thee,
and the power of the Most High
shall overshadow thee;

14  Wherefore that which shall
be born of thee shall be holy,
and shall be called the Son of the
Living God, and thou shalt call his
name Jesus; for he shall save his
people from their sins.

15  And behold thy cousin Elizabeth,
she also hath conceived a son in her
old age.

16  And this now is the sixth
month with her, who was called
barren: for nothing is impossible
with God.

17  And Mary said, Behold the
handmaid of the Lord; let it be
unto me according to thy word.

18  And when she had wrought
her purple, she carried it to the
high-priest, and the high-priest
blessed her, saying, Mary, the
Lord God hath magnified thy name,
and thou shalt be blessed in all the
ages of the world.

19  Then Mary, filled with joy,
went away to her cousin Elizabeth,
and knocked at the door.

20  Which when Elizabeth heard,
she ran and opened to her, and
blessed her, and said, Whence is
this to me, that the mother of my
Lord should come unto me?

21  For lo! as soon as the voice
of thy salutation reached my ears,
that which is in me leaped and
blessed thee.

22  But Mary, being ignorant of
all those mysterious things which
the archangel Gabriel had spoken
to her, lifted up her eyes to heaven,
and said, Lord! What am I, that
all the generations of the earth
should call me blessed?

23  But perceiving herself daily
to grow big, and being afraid, she
went home, and hid herself from
the children of Israel; and was
fourteen years old when all these
things happened.



CHAPTER X.

     1 Joseph returns from building houses, finds the Virgin
     grown big, being six months gone with child,
     2 is jealous and troubled,
     8 reproaches her,
     10 she affirms her innocence,
     13 he leaves her,
     16 determines to dismiss her privately,
     17 is warned in a dream that Mary is with child by the Holy Ghost,
     20 and glorifies God who had shewn him such favour.

AND when her sixth month was
come, Joseph returned from
his building houses abroad, which
was his trade, and entering into the
house, found the Virgin grown big:

2  Then smiting upon his face,
he said, With what face can I look
up to the Lord my God? or, what
shall I say concerning this young
woman?

3  For I received her a Virgin
out of the temple of the Lord my
God, and have not preserved her
such!

4  Who has thus deceived me?
Who has committed this evil in
my house, and seducing the Virgin
from me, hath defiled her?

5  Is not the history of Adam exactly
accomplished in me?

6  For in the very instant of his
glory, the serpent came and found
Eve alone, and seduced her.

7  Just after the same manner it
has happened to me.

8  Then Joseph arising from the
ground, called her, and said, O
thou who hast been so much
favoured by God, why hast thou
done this?

9  Why hast thou thus debased
thy soul, who wast educated in the
Holy of Holies, and received thy
food from the hand of angels?

10  But she, with a flood of tears,
replied, I am innocent, and have
known no man.

11  Then said Joseph, How
comes it to pass you are with
child?

12  Mary answered, As the Lord
my God liveth, I know not by what
means.

13  Then Joseph was exceedingly afraid,
and went away from her, considering
what he should do with her;
and he thus reasoned with himself:

14  If I conceal her crime, I shall
be found guilty by the law of the
Lord;

15  And if I discover her to the
children of Israel, I fear, lest
she being with child by an angel,
I shall be found to betray the life
of an innocent person.

16  What therefore shall I do?
I will privately dismiss her.

17  Then the night was come
upon him, when behold an angel
of the Lord appeared to him in a
dream, and said,

18  Be not afraid to take that
young woman, for that which is
within her is of the Holy Ghost,

19  And she shall bring forth
a son, and thou shalt call his name
Jesus, for he shall save his people
from their sins.

20 Then Joseph arose from his
sleep, and glorified the God of
Israel, who had shewn him such
favour, and preserved the Virgin.



CHAPTER XI.

     3 Annas visits Joseph, perceives the Virgin big with child,
     4 informs the high priest that Joseph had privately married her.
     8 Joseph and Mary brought to trial on the charge.
     17 Joseph drinks the water of the Lord as an ordeal,
     and receiving no harm, returns home.

THEN came Annas the scribe,
and said to Joseph, Wherefore
have we not seen you since
your return?

2  And Joseph replied, Because
I was weary after my journey, and
rested the first day.

3  But Annas turning about
perceived the Virgin big with child.

4 And went away to the priest,
and told him, Joseph in whom you
placed so much confidence, is
guilty of a notorious crime, in
that he hath defiled the Virgin
whom he received out of the temple
of the Lord, and hath privately
married her, not discovering it to
the children of Israel.

5  Then said the priest, Hath
Joseph done this?

6  Annas replied, If you send
any of your servants you will find
that she is with child.

7  And the servants went, and
found it as he said.

8  Upon this both she and Joseph
were brought to their trial, and
the priest said unto her, Mary,
what hast thou done?

9  Why hast thou debased thy
soul, and forgot thy God, seeing
thou wast brought up in the Holy
of Holies, and didst receive thy
food from the hands of angels, and
heardest their songs?

10  Why hast thou done this?

11  To which with a flood of
tears she answered, As the Lord
my God liveth, I am innocent in
his sight, seeing I know no man.

12  Then the priest said to Joseph,
Why hast thou done this?

13  And Joseph answered, As
the Lord my God liveth, I have
not been concerned with her.

14  But the priest said, Lie not,
but declare the truth; thou hast
privately married her, and not
discovered it to the children of
Israel, and humbled thyself under
the mighty hand (of God), that thy
seed might be blessed:

15  And Joseph was silent.

16  Then said the priest
(to Joseph), You must restore to
the temple of the Lord the Virgin
which you took thence.

17  But he wept bitterly, and the
priest added, I will cause you both
to drink the water of the Lord,
which is for trial, and so your
iniquity shall be laid open before
you.--[bitter water that causeth the curse]

18  Then the priest took the water,
and made Joseph drink, and sent him
to a mountainous place,

19  And he returned perfectly
well, and all the people wondered
that his guilt was not discovered.

20  So the priest said, Since the
Lord hath not made your sins
evident, neither do I condemn
you.

21 So he sent them away.

22 Then Joseph took Mary, and
went to his house, rejoicing and
praising the God of Israel.



CHAP. XII.

     1 A decree from Augustus for taxing the Jews.
     5 Joseph puts Mary on an ass, to return to Bethlehem,
     6 she looks sorrowful,
     7 she laughs,
     8 Joseph inquires the cause of each,
     9 she tells him she sees two persons,
     one mourning and the other rejoicing.
     10 The delivery being near, he takes her
     from the ass, and places her in a cave.

AND it came to pass, that there
went forth a decree from
the Emperor Augustus, that all
the Jews should be taxed, who
were of Bethlehem in Judaea.

2  And Joseph said, I will take
care that my children be taxed;
but what shall I do with this young
woman?

3  To have her taxed as my wife
I am ashamed; and if I tax her as
my daughter, all Israel knows she
is not my daughter.

4  When the time of the Lord's
appointment shall come, let him do
as seems good to him.

5  And he saddled the ass, and
put her upon it, and Joseph and
Simon followed after her, and
arrived at Bethlehem within three
miles.

6  Then Joseph turning about
saw Mary sorrowful, and said
within himself, Perhaps she is in
pain through that which is within
her.

7  But when he turned about
again, he saw her laughing, and
said to her,

8  Mary, how happens it, that I
sometimes see sorrow, and sometimes
laughter and joy in thy countenance?

9  And Mary replied to him,
I see two people with mine eyes,
the one weeping and mourning,
the other laughing and rejoicing.

10  And he went again across
the way, and Mary said to Joseph,
Take me down from the ass, for
that which is in me presses to come
forth.

11  But Joseph replied, Whither
shall I take thee? for the place is
a desert.

12 Then said Mary again to Joseph,
take me down, for that which is
within me mightily presses me.

13 And Joseph took her down.

14 And he found there a cave,
and let her into it.



CHAPTER XIII.

     1 Joseph seeks a Hebrew midwife,
     2 perceives the owls stopping in their flight,
     3 the working people at their food not moving,
     8 the sheep standing still,
     9 the shepherd fixed and immoveable,
     10 and kids with their mouths touching
     the water but not drinking.

AND leaving her and his sons
in the cave, Joseph went
forth to seek a Hebrew midwife in
the village of Bethlehem.

2  But as I was going (said Joseph),
I looked up into the air,
and I saw the clouds astonished,
and the fowls of the air stopping in
the midst of their flight.

3  And I looked down towards
the earth, and saw a table spread,
and working people sitting around
it, but their hands were upon the
table and they did not move to
eat.

4  They who had meat in their
mouths did not eat.

5  They who lifted their hands
up to their heads did not draw
them back,

6  And they who lifted them up
to their mouths did not put any
thing in;

7  But all their faces were fixed
upwards.

8  And I beheld the sheep dispersed,
and yet the sheep stood still.

9  And the shepherd lifted up
his hand to smite them, and his
hand continued up.

10  And I looked unto a river,
and saw the kids with their mouths
close to the water, and touching it,
but they did not drink.



CHAPTER XIV.

     1 Joseph finds a midwife.
     10 A bright cloud overshadows the cave.
     11 A great light in the cave, gradually
     increases until the infant is born.
     13 The mid-wife goes out, and tells Salome
     that she has seen a virgin bring forth.
     17 Salome doubts it.
     20 her hand withers,
     22 she supplicates the Lord,
     28 is cured,
     30 but warned not to declare what she had seen.

THEN I beheld a woman coming
down from the mountains,
and she said to me, Where art thou
going, O man?

2  And I said to her, I go to
enquire for a Hebrew midwife.

3  She replied to me, Where is
the woman that is to be delivered?

4  And I answered, In the cave,
and she is betrothed to me.

5  Then said the midwife, Is she
not thy wife?

6  Joseph answered, It is Mary,
who was educated in the Holy of
Holies, in the house of the Lord,
and she fell to me by lot, and is
not my wife, but has conceived by
the Holy Ghost.

7  The midwife said, Is this true?

8  He answered, Come and see.

9  And the midwife went along
with him, and stood in the cave.

10  Then a bright cloud over-
shadowed the cave, and the mid-
wife said, This day my soul is
magnified, for mine eyes have seen
surprising things, and salvation is
brought forth to Israel.

11  But on a sudden the cloud
became a great light in the cave,
so that their eyes could not bear it.

12  But the light gradually
decreased, until the infant appeared,
and sucked the breast of his mother,
Mary.

13  Then the midwife cried out,
and said, How glorious a day is
this, wherein mine eyes have seen
this extraordinary sight!

14  And the midwife went out
from the cave, and Salome met
her.

15  And the midwife said to her,
Salome, Salome, I will tell you a
most surprising thing which I saw,

16  A virgin hath brought forth,
which is a thing contrary to
nature.

17  To which Salome replied, As
the Lord my God liveth unless I
receive particular proof of this
matter, I will not believe that a
virgin hath brought forth.

18  If Then Salome went in, and
the midwife said, Mary, shew thyself,
for a controversy is risen
concerning thee.

19  And Salome received satisfaction.

20  But her hand was withered,
and she groaned bitterly;

21  And said, Woe to me, because
of mine iniquity; for I have
tempted the living God, and my
hand is ready to drop off.

22 Then Salome made her
supplication to the Lord, and said,
O God of my Fathers, remember me,
for I am of the seed of Abraham,
and Isaac, and Jacob.

23  Make me not a reproach
among the children of Israel, but
restore me sound to my parents.

24  For thou well knowest,
O Lord, that I have performed many
offices of charity in thy name,
and have received my reward from
thee.

25  Upon this an angel of the
Lord stood by Salome, and said,
The Lord God hath heard thy
prayer, reach forth thy hand to
the child, and carry him, and by
that means thou shalt be restored.

26  Salome filled with exceeding
joy, went to the child, and said,
I will touch him.

27  And she purposed to worship
him, for she said, This is a great
king, which is born in Israel.

28  And straightway Salome was
cured.

29  Then the midwife went out
of the cave, being approved by God.

30  And lo! a voice came to Salome.
Declare not the strange things
which thou hast seen, till
the child shall come to Jerusalem.

31  So Salome also departed,
approved by God.



CHAPTER XV.

     1 Wise men come from the east.
     3 Herod alarmed;
     8 desires them if they find the child to bring him word.
     10 They visit the cave and offer the child their treasure,
     11 and being warned in a dream, do not return to Herod,
     but go home another way.

THEN Joseph was preparing to
go away, because there arose
a great disorder in Bethlehem by
the coming of some wise men
from the east,

2  Who said, Where is the King
of the Jews born?  For we have
seen his star in the east, and are
come to worship him.

3  When Herod heard this, he
was exceedingly troubled, and sent
messengers to the wise men, and
to the priests, and enquired of
them in the town-hall,

4  And said unto them, Where
have you it written concerning
Christ the king, or where should
he be born?

5  Then they say unto him, In
Bethlehem of Judaea; for thus it
is written: And thou Bethlehem in
the land of Judah, art not the least
among the princes of Judah, for
out of thee shall come a ruler,
who shall rule my people Israel.

6  And having sent away the
chief priests, he enquired of the
wise men in the town-hall, and
said unto them, What sign was it
ye saw concerning the king that is
born?

7  They answered him, We saw
an extraordinary large star shining
among the stars of heaven, and so
out-shined all the other stars, as
that they became not visible, and
we knew thereby that a great king
was born in Israel, and therefore
we are come to worship him.

8  Then said Herod to them, Go
and make diligent inquiry; and if
ye find the child, bring me word
again, that I may come and worship
him also.

9  So the wise men went forth,
and behold, the star which they
saw in the east went before them,
till it came and stood over the cave
where the young child was with
Mary his mother.

10  Then they brought forth out
of their treasures, and offered unto
him gold and frankincense, and
myrrh.

11  And being warned in a dream
by an angel, that they should not
return to Herod through Judaea,
they departed into their own country
by another way.



CHAPTER XVI.

     1 Herod enraged, orders the infants in Bethlehem to be slain.
     2 Mary puts her infant in an ox-manger.
     3 Elizabeth flees with her son John to the mountains.
     6 A mountain miraculously divides and receives them.
     9 Herod incensed at the escape of John, causes Zacharias
     to be murdered at the altar.
     23 The roofs of the temple rent, the body miraculously
     conveyed, and the blood petrified.
     25 Israel mourns for him.
     27 Simeon chosen his successor by lot.

THEN Herod perceiving that
he was mocked by the wise
men, and being very angry,
commanded certain men to go and
to kill all the children that were
in Bethlehem, from two years old
and under.

2  But Mary hearing that the
children were to be, killed, being
under much fear, took the child,
and wrapped him up in swaddling
clothes, and laid him in an ox-
manger, because there was no
room for them in the inn.

3  Elizabeth also, hearing that
her son John was about to be
searched for; took him and went
up unto the mountains, and looked
around for a place to hide him;

4  And there was no secret place
to be found.

5  Then she groaned within herself,
and said, O mountain of the Lord,
receive the mother with the child.

6  For Elizabeth could not climb up,

7  And instantly the mountain
was divided and received them.

8  And there appeared to them
an angel of the Lord to preserve
them.

9  But Herod made search after
John, and sent servants to Zacharias,
when he was (ministering) at the altar,
and said unto him, Were hast thou hid
thy son?

10  He replied, to them, I am a
minister of God, and a servant at
the altar: how should I know
where my son is?

11  So the servants went back,
and told Herod the whole; at
which he was incensed, and said,
Is not this son of his like to be
king of Israel?

12  He sent therefore again his
servants to Zacharias, saying, Tell
us the truth, where is thy son, for
you know that your life is in my
hand.

13  So the servants went and told
him all this:

14  But Zacharias replied to
them, I am a martyr for God, and
if ye skied my blood, the Lord will
receive my soul.

15  Besides know that ye shed
innocent blood.

16  However Zacharias was murdered
in the entrance of the temple
said altar, and about the partition;

17  But the children of Israel
knew not when he want killed.

18  Then at the hour of salutation
the priests went into the temple
but Zacharias did not according
to custom, meet them and bless them.

19  Yet they still continued
waiting for him to salute them;

20  And when they found he did
not in a long time come, one of
them ventured into the holy place
where the altar was, and he saw
blood lying upon the ground
congealed:

21  When, behold, a voice from
heaven said, Zacharias is murdered,
and his blood shall not be
wiped away, until the revenger
of his blood come.

22  But when he heard this, he
was afraid; and went forth and told
the priests what he had seen and
heard; and they all went in, and
saw the fact.

23  Then the roofs of the temple
howled, and were rent from the
top to the bottom:

24  And they could not find the
body, but only blood made hard
like stone.

25  And they went away, and
told the people, that Zacharias
was murdered, and all the tribes
of Israel heard thereof, and mourned
for him, and lamented three days:

26  Then the priests took
council together concerning
a person to succeed him.

27  And Simeon and the other
priests cast lots, and the lot fell
upon Simeon.

28  For he had been assured by
the Holy Spirit, that he should not
die, till he had seen Christ come in
the flesh.

     (I James wrote this History in Jerusalem: and when the disturbance
     was I retired into a desert place, until the death of Herod, and the
     disturbances ceased at Jerusalem. That which remains is, that I
     glorify God that he hath given me such wisdom to write unto you who
     are spiritual, and who love God: to whom (be ascribed) glory and
     dominion for ever and ever. Amen.)




                          THE PROTEVANGELION.
              Note on the death of Zacharias in, Chap. 16.

There is a story both in the Jerusalem and Babylonish Talmud very similar
to this. It is cited by Dr. Lightfoot, Talmud, Hierosol, in Taanith, fol.
69; and  Talmud. Babyl. in Sanhedr., fol. 96.  "O Rabbi Jochanan said,
Eighty thousand priests were slain for the blood of Zacharias. Rabbi
Judas asked Rabbi Achan, Where did they kill Zacharias? Was it in the
woman's court, or in the court of Israel? He answered, Neither in the
court of Israel, nor in the court of women, but in the court of the
priests; and they did not treat his blood in the same manner as they were
wont to treat the blood of a ram or young goat.   For of these it is
written, He shall pour out his blood, and cover it with dust. But it is
written  here, The blood is in the midst of her: she set it upon the top
of a rock; she poured it not upon the ground. (Ezek. xxiv. 7.) But why
was this? That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance: I have
set his blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered.
They committed seven evils that day: they murdered a priest, a prophet,
and a king; they shed the blood of the innocent they polluted the court:
that day was the Sabbath: and the day of expiation.  When therefore
Nebuzaradan came there (viz. to Jerusalem,) he saw his blood  bubbling,
and said to them, What meaneth this? They answered, It is the blood of
calves, lambs, and rams, which we have offered upon the altar. He
commanded  then, that they should bring calves, and lambs, and rams, and
said I will try  whether this be their blood: accordingly they brought
and slew them, but the blood of Zacharias still bubbled, but the blood of
these did not bubble. Then he  said, Declare to me the truth of this
matter, or else I will comb your flesh with iron combs. Then said they to
him, He was a priest, prophet, and judge, who prophesied to Israel all
these calamities which we have suffered from you; but we arose against
him, and slew him.  Then, said he, I will appease him then he  took the
rabbins and slew them upon his (viz. Zacharias's) blood, and he was not
yet appeased. Next he took the young boys from the schools, and slew them
upon his blood; and yet it bubbled. Then he brought the young priests and
slew them  in the-same place, and yet it still bubbled. So he slew at
length ninety-four thousand persons upon his blood, and it did not as yet
cease bubbling, then he drew  near to it, and said, O Zacharias,
Zacharias, thou halt occasioned the death of the  chief of thy
countrymen, shall I slay them all? then the blood ceased, and did bubble
no more."




                    REFERENCES TO THE PROTEVANGELION.

[This Gospel is ascribed to James. The allusions to it in the ancient
Fathers are  frequent, and their expressions indicate that it had
obtained a very general credit in the Christian world. The controversies
founded upon it chiefly  relate to the age of Joseph at the birth of
Christ, and to his being a widower with children, before his marriage
with the Virgin. It seems material to remark, that the legends of the
latter ages affirm the virginity of Joseph, notwithstanding Epiphanius,
Hilary, Chrysostom, Cyril, Euthymius, Thephylaet, Occumenius, and indeed
all the Latin Fathers till Ambrose, and the Greek Fathers afterwards,
maintain the opinions of Joseph's age and family, founded upon their
belief in the authenticity of this book. It is supposed to have been
originally composed in Hebrew. Postellus brought the MS. of this Gospel
from the Levant, translated it into Latin, and sent it to Oporimus,
a printer at Basil, where Bibliander, a Protestant Divine, and the
Professor of Divinity at Zurich, caused it to be printed in 1552.
Postellus asserts that it was publicly read as canonical in the eastern
churches they making no doubt that James was the author, of it. It is,
nevertheless considered apocryphal by some of the most learned divines in
the Protestant and Catholic churches.]








This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>






                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES






                          THE FIRST GOSPEL OF
                      THE INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST.



CHAPTER I.

     1 Caiphas relates that Jesus, when in his cradle,
     informed his mother that he was the Son of God.
     5 Joseph and Mary going to Bethlehem to be taxed, Mary's
     time of bringing forth arrives, and she goes into a cave.
     8 Joseph fetches in a Hebrew woman. The cave filled with
     great lights.
     11 The infant born,
     17 and cures the woman.
     19 Arrival of the shepherds.

THE following accounts we found
in the book of Joseph the
high-priest, called by some
Caiphas:

2  He relates, that Jesus spake
even when he was in the cradle,
and said to his mother:

3  Mary, I am Jesus the Son of
God, that word, which thou didst
bring forth according to the
declaration of the angel Gabriel to
thee, and my father hath sent me
for the salvation of the world.

4  In the three hundred and
ninth year of the era of Alexander,
Augustus published a decree that
all persons should go to be taxed
in their own country.

5  Joseph therefore arose, and
with Mary his spouse he went to
Jerusalem, and then came to Bethlehem,
that he and his family might be taxed
in the city of his fathers.

6  And when they came by the cave,
Mary confessed to Joseph that her
time of bringing forth was come,
and she could not go on to the city,
and said, Let us go into this cave.

7  At that time the sun was very
near going down.

8  But Joseph hastened away,
that he might fetch her a midwife;
and when he saw an old Hebrew
woman who was of Jerusalem, he
said to her, Pray come hither,
good woman, and go into that cave,
and you will there see a woman
just ready to bring forth.

9  It was after sunset, when the
old woman and Joseph with her
reached the cave, and they both
went into it.

10  And behold, it was all filled
with lights, greater than the light
of lamps and candles, and greater
than the light of the sun itself.

11  The infant was then wrapped
up in swaddling clothes, and sucking
the breasts of his mother St.
Mary.

12  When they both saw this
light, they were surprised; the
old woman asked St. Mary, Art
thou the mother of this child?

13  St. Mary replied, She was.

14  On which the old woman
said, Thou art very different from
all other women.

15  St. Mary answered, As there
is not any child like to my son,
so neither is there any woman like
to his mother.

16  The old woman answered,
and said, O my Lady, I am come
hither that I may obtain an
everlasting reward.

17  Then our Lady St. Mary
said to her, Lay thine hands upon
the infant, which, when she had
done, she became whole.

18  And as she was going forth,
she said, From henceforth, all the
days of my life, I will attend upon
and be a servant of this infant.

19  After this, when the shepherds
came, and had made a fire, and they
were exceedingly rejoiceing, the
heavenly host appeared to them,
praising and adoring the supreme God.

20  And as the shepherds were
engaged in the same employment,
the cave at that time seemed like
a glorious temple, because both
the tongues of angels and men
united to adore and magnify God,
on account of the birth of the Lord
Christ.

21  But when the old Hebrew
woman saw all these evident miracles,
she gave praises to God, and
said, I thank thee, O God, thou
God of Israel, for that mine eyes
have seen the birth of the Saviour
of the world.



CHAP. II.

     1 The child circumcised in the cave,
     2 and the old woman preserving his foreskin or navel-string in a
     box of spikenard, Mary afterwards annoints Christ with it.
     5 Christ brought to the temple;
     6 He shines,
     7 and angels stand around him adoring.
     8 Simeon praises Christ.

AND when the time of his
circumcision was come: namely,
the eighth day, on which the
law commanded the child to be
circumcised; they circumcised
him in the cave.

2  And the old Hebrew woman
took the foreskin (others say she
took the navel-string), and preserved
it in an alabaster-box of old oil
of spikenard.

3  And she had a son who was a
druggist, to whom she said, Take
heed thou sell not this alabaster-
box of spikenard-ointment, although
thou shouldst be offered three
hundred pence for it.

4  Now this is that alabaster-
box which Mary the sinner procured,
and poured forth the ointment out
of it upon the head and the feet
of our Lord Jesus Christ, and wiped
them off with the hairs of her head.

5  Then after ten days they
brought him to Jerusalem, and on
the fortieth day from his birth
they presented him in the temple
before the Lord, making the proper
offerings for him, according
to the requirement of the law of
Moses: namely, that every male
which opens the womb shall be
called holy unto God.

6  At that time old Simeon saw
him shining as a pillar of light,
when St. Mary the Virgin, his
mother, carried him in her arms,
and was filled with the greatest
pleasure at the sight.

7  And the angels stood around
him, adoring him, as a king's
guards stand around him.

8  Then Simeon going near to
St. Mary, and stretching forth his
hands towards her, said to the
Lord Christ, Now, O My Lord,
thy servant shall depart in peace,
according to thy word;

9  For mine eyes have seen thy
mercy, which thou hast prepared
for the salvation of all nations;
a light to all people, and the glory
of thy people Israel.

10  Hannah the prophetess was
also present, and drawing near,
she gave praises to God, and
celebrated the happiness of Mary.



CHAPTER III.

     1 The wise men visit Christ. Mary gives them
     one of his swaddling clothes.
     3 An angel appears to them in the form of a star.
     4 They return and make a fire, and worship the
     swaddling cloth, and put it in the fire where it
     remains unconsumed.

AND it came to pass, when the
Lord Jesus was born at Bethlehem,
a city of Judaea, in the time of Herod
the King;--the wise  men came from the
East to Jerusalem, according to the
prophecy of Zoradascht,[Zoroaster]
and brought with them offerings:
namely, gold, frankincense, and myrrh,
and worshipped him, and offered to him
their gifts.

2  Then the Lady Mary took one
of his swaddling clothes in which
the infant was wrapped, and gave
it to them instead of a blessing,
which they received from her as a
most noble present.

3  And at the same time there
appeared to them an angel in the
form of that star which had before
been their guide in their journey;
the light of which they followed
till they returned into their own
country.

4  On their return their kings
and princes came to them inquiring,
whom they had seen and done?
What sort of journey and return
they had?  What Company
they had on the road?

5  But they produced the swaddling
cloth which St. Mary had given
them, on account whereof thye kept
a feast.

6  And having, according to the
custom of their country, made
a fire, they worshipped it.

7  And casting the swaddling
cloth into it, the fire took it
and kept it.

8  And when the fire was put out,
they took forth the swaddling cloth
unhurt, as much as if the fire had
not touched it.

9  Then they began to kiss it,
and put it upon their heads and
their eyes saying, This is certainly
an undoubted truth, and it is really
surprising that the fire could not
burn it, and consume it.

10  Then they took it, and with
the greatest respect laid it up
among their treasures.



CHAPTER IV.

     1 Herod intends to put Christ to death.
     3 An angel warns Joseph to take the child
     and his mother into Egypt.
     6 Consternation on their arrival.
     13 The idols fall down.
     15 Mary washes Christ's swaddling clothes, hangs them to
     dry on a post, and the son of a priest puts one on his head;
     16 And being possessed of devils they leave him.

NOW Herod perceiving that the
wise men did delay and not return
to him, called together the priest
and wise men, and said, Tell me in
what place the Christ should be born.

2  And when they replied, in
Bethlehem,--a city lof Judaea, he
began to contrive in his own mind
the death of the Lord Jesus Christ.

3  But an angel of the Lord
appeared to Joseph in his sleep,
and said, Arise, take the child and
his mother, and go into Egypt as soon
as the cock crows. So he arose,
and went.

4  And as he was considering
with himself about his journey,
the morning came upon him.

5  In the length of the journey
the girts of the saddle broke.

6  And now he drew near to a great
city, in which there was an idol,
to which the priests of the other
idols and gods of Egypt brought
their offerings and vows.

7  And there was by this idol a
priest ministering to it, who, as
often as Satan spoke out of that
idol, related the things he said to
the inhabitants of Egypt, and those
countries.

8  This priest had a son three
years old, who was possessed with
a great multitude of devils, who
uttered many strange things and
when the devils seized him, walked
about naked with his clothes torn,
throwing stones at those whom
he saw.

9  Near to that idol was the inn
of the city, into which when Joseph
and St. Mary were come, and had
turned into that inn, all the
inhabitants of the city were
astonished.

10  And all the magistrates and
priests of the idols assembled
before that idol, and made inquiry
there, saying, What means all this
consternation, and dread, which
has fallen upon all our country?

11  The idol answered them,
The unknown God is come thither,
who is truly God; nor is there any
one besides him, who is worthy of
divine worship for he is truly the
Son of God.

12  At the fame of him this
country trembled, and at his
coming it is under the present
commotion and consternation, and
we ourselves are afrighted by the
greatness of his power.

13  And at the same instant this
idol fell down, and at his fall all
the inhabitants of Egypt, besides
others ran together.

14  But the son of the priest,
when his usual disorder came upon
him going into the inn, found
there Joseph and St. Mary, whom
all the rest had left behind and
forsook.

15  And when the Lady St. Mary
had washed the swaddling clothes
of the Lord Christ, and hanged
them out to dry upon a post, the
boy possessed with the devil took
down one of them, and put it upon
his head.

16  And presently the devils
began to come out of his mouth,
and fly away in the shape of crows
and serpents.

17  From that time the boy was
healed by the power of the Lord
Christ and he began to sing
praises, and give thanks to the
Lord who had healed him.

18  When his father saw him
restored to his former state of
health, he said, My son, what has
happened to thee, and by what
means wert thou cured?

19  The son answered, When the
devils seized me, I went into the
inn, and there found a very hand-
some woman with a boy, whose
swaddling clothes she had just
before washed, and hanged out upon
a post.

20  One of these I took, and put
it upon my head, and immediately
the devils left me, and fled away.

21  At this the father exceedingly
rejoiced, and said, My son,
perhaps this boy is the son of the
living God, who made the heavens
and the earth.

22  For as soon as he came
amongst us, the idol was broken,
and all the gods fell down, and
were destroyed by a greater power.

23  Then was fulfilled the prophecy
which saith, Out of Egypt I have
called my son.



CHAPTER V.

     1 Joseph and Mary leave Egypt.
     3 Go to the Haunts of robbers,
     4 Who hearing a mighty noise,
     as of a great army flee away.

NOW Joseph and Mary when
they heard that the idol was
fallen down and destroyed, were
seized with fear and, trembling,
and said, When we Were in the
land of Israel, Herod, intending
to kill Jesus, slew for that purpose
all the infants at Bethlehem, and
that neighbourhood.

2  And there is no doubt but
the Egyptians if they come to
hear that this idol is broken and
fallen down, will burn us with fire.

3  They went therefore hence to
the secret places of robbers, who
robbed travellers as they pass by,
of their carriages and their clothes
and carried them away bound.

4  These thieves upon their
coming heard a great noise such
as the noise of a king with a great
army, and many horse and the
trumpets sounding at his departure
from his own city, at which they
were so affrighted, as to leave
all their booty behind them and
fly away in haste.

5  Upon this the prisoners arose,
and loosed each other's bonds,
and taking each man his bags,
they went way, and saw Joseph
and Mary coming towards them,
and inquired, Where is that king,
the noise of whose approach the
robbers heard, and left us,
so that we are now come off safe?

6  Joseph answered, He will come
after us.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Mary looks on a womaap in whom Satan had taken
     up his abode, and she becomes dispossesed.
     5 Christ kissed by a bride made dumb by sorcerers,
     cures her.
     11 Miraculously cures a gentlewoman in whom Satan
     had taken up his abode.
     16 A leprous girl cured by the water in which he was
     washed, and becomes the servant of Joseph and Mary.
     20 The leprous son of a prince's wife cured in like manner.
     37 Has mother offers large gifts to Mary, and dismisses her.


THEN they went into another
city where there was a woman
possessed with a devil, and in
whom Satan, that cursed rebel,
had taken up his abode.

2  One night, when she went to
fetch water, she could neither
endure her clothes on, nor to be
in any house; but as often as they
tied her with chains or cords, she
brake them, and went out into desert
places, and sometimes standing
where roads crossed, and in
church yards, would throw stones
at men.

3  When St. Mary saw this
woman, she pitied her; where
upon Satan presently left her, and
fled away in the form of a young
man, saying, Wo to me, because
of thee, Mary, and thy son.

4  So the woman was delivered
from her torment; but consider.
ing herself naked, she blushed,
and avoided seeing any man and
having put on her clothes, went
home, and gave an account of her
case to her father and relations
who, as they were the best of the
city, entertained St. Mary and Jo-
seph with the greatest respect.

5  The next morning having
received a sufficient supply of
provisions for the road, they went
from them, and about the evening of
the day arrived at another town,
where a marriage was then about
to be solemnized; but by the arts
of Satan and the practices of a
sorcerers, the bride was become
so dumb, that she could not so
much as open her mouth.

6  But when this dumb bride
saw the Lady St. Mary entering
into the town, and carrying
Lord Christ in her arms, she
stretched out her hands to the
Lord Christ, and-took him in her
arms, and closely hugging him,
very often kissed him, continually
moving him and, pressing him to
her body.

7  Straightway the string of her
tongue was loosed, and her ears
were opened, and she began to
sing praises unto God, who had
restored her.

8  So there was great joy among
the inhabitants of the town that
night, who thought that God and
his angels were come down among
them.

9  In this place they abode
three days, meeting with the great-
est respect and most splendid en-
tertainment.

10  And being then furnished by
the people with provisions for the
road, they departed and went to
another city, in which they were
inclined to lodge, because it was a
famous place.

11  There was in this city a
gentlewoman, who, as she went down
one day to the river to bathe, behold
cursed Satan leaped upon her in the
form of a serpent.

12  And folded himself about her
belly, and every night lay upon
her.

13  This woman seeing the Lady
St. Mary, and the Lord Christ the
infant in her bosom, asked the
Lady St. Mary, that she would
give her the child to kiss, and
carry in her arms.

14  When she had consented,
and as soon as the woman had
moved the child, Satan left her,
and fled away, nor did the woman
ever afterwards see him.

15  Hereupon all the neighbors
praised the Supreme God, and the
woman reward them with ample,
beneficence.

16  On the morrow, the same
woman brought perfumed water to
wash the Lord Jesus; and when
she had washed him, she preserved
the water.

17  And there was a girl there,
whose body was white with a
leprosy, who being sprinkled with
this water, and washed, was
instantly cleansed from her leprosy.

18  The people therefore said
Without doubt Joseph and Mary,
and that boy are Gods, for they do
not look like mortals.

19  And when they were making
ready to go away, the girl, who
had been troubled with the leprosy,
came and desired they would
permit her to go along with them;
so they consented and the girl went
with them till they came to a city
in which was the palace of a great
king, and whose house was not far
from the inn.

20  Here they staid, and when
the girl went one day to the
prince's wife, and found her in a
sorrowful and mournful condition,
she asked her the reason of her
tears.

21  She replied, wonder not at
my groans, for I am under a great
misfortune, of which I dare not
tell any one.

22  But, says the, girl, if you
will entrust me with your private
grievance, perhaps I may find you
a remedy for it.

23  Thou, therefore, says the
prince's wife, shall keep the
secret, and not discover it to
any one alive.

24  I have been married to this
prince, who  rules as king over
large dominions, and lived long
with him before he had any child
by me.

25  At length I conceived by
him, but alas! I brought forth a
leprous son; which, when he saw
him would not own to be his, but
said to me,

26  Either do thou kill him, or
send him to some nurse in such a
place, that he may be never heard
of; and now take care of yourself;
I will never see you more.

27  So here I pine, lamenting
my wretched and miserable
circumstances. Alas, my son! alas,
my husband; Have I disclosed it
to you?

28  The girl replied I have found
a remedy for your disease, which
I promise you, for I also was
leprous, but God hath cleansed
me, even he who is called Jesus
the son of the Lady Mary.

29  The woman inquiring where
that God was, whom she spake
of; the girl answered, He lodges
with you here, in the same house.

30  But how can this be? says
she; where is he? Behold, replied
the girl, Joseph and Mary; and
the infant who is, with them is
called Jesus; and it is he who
delivered me from my disease and
torment.

31  But by what means, says she,
were you cleansed from your leprosy?
Will not you tell me that?

32  Why not? says the girl; I
took the water with which his
body had been washed, and poured
it upon me, and my leprosy
vanished.

33  The prince's wife then arose
and entertained them, providing a
great feast for Joseph among a
large company of men.

34  And the next day took
perfumed water to wash the Lord
Jesus, and afterwards  poured the
same water upon her son, whom
she had brought with her, and her
son was instantly cleansed from
his leprosy,

35  Then she sang thanks and
unto God, and said, Blessed
is the mother that bare thee,
O Jesus!

36  Dost thou thus cure men of
the same nature with thyself, with
the water with which thy body is
washed?

37 She then offered very large
gifts to the Lady Mary, and sent
her away with all imaginable
respect.



CHAPTER VII.

     1 A man who could not enjoy his wife, freed from his disorder.
     5 A young man who had been bewitched, and turned into a
     mule miraculously cured by Christ being put on his back,
     28 and is married to the girl who had been cured of leprosy.


THEY came afterwards to another
city, and had a mind to lodge there.


2  Accordingly they went to a man's
house, who was newly married
but by the influence of sorcerers
could not enjoy his wife.

3  But they lodging at his house
that night, the man was freed of
his disorder.

4  And when they were preparing
early in the morning to go forward
on their jouney, the new-married
person hindered them, and
provided a noble entertainment
for them.

5  But going forward on the
morrow, they came to another
city, and saw three women going
from a certain grave with great
weeping.

6  When St. Mary saw them, she
spake to the girl who was their
companion, saying, Go and inquire
of them, what is the matter with
them, and what misfortune has
befallen them?

7  When the girl asked them,
they made her no answer, but
asked her again, Who are ye? and
where are you going? For the day
is far spent, and night is at hand.

8  We are travellers, saith the
girl, and we are seeking for an inn
to lodge at.

9  They replied, Go along with
us, and lodge with us.

10  They then followed them,
and were introduced into a new
house, well furnished with all
sorts of furniture.

11  Now it was winter-time, and
the girl went into the parlour
where these women were, and
found them weeping and lamenting
as before.

12  By them stood a mule, covered
over with silk, and an ebony collar
hanging down from his neck, whom
they kissed and were feeding.

13  But when the girl said, How
handsome, ladies, that mule is!
they replied with tears, and said,
This mule, which you see, was our
brother, born of this same mother
as we;

14  For when our father died,
and left us a very large estate, and
we had only this brother, and we
endeavoured to procure him a suit-
able match, and thought he should
be married as other men, some
giddy and jealous women bewitched
him without our knowledge.

15  And we one night, a little before
day, while the doors of the house
were all shut fast, saw this our
brother was changed into a mule,
such as you now see him to be:

16  And we in the melancholy
condition in which you see us,
having no father to comfort us,
have applied to all the wise men,
magicians, and diviners in the
world, but they have been of no
service to us.

17  As often therefore as we find
ourselves oppressed with grief, we
rise and go with this our mother
to our father's tomb, where, when
we have cried suficiently, we
return home.

18  When the girl had heard this
she said, Take courage, and cease
your fears, for you have a remedy
for your afflictions near at hand
even amoung you and in the midst
of your house.

19  For I was also leprous; but
when I saw this woman, and this
little infant with her, whose name
is Jesus, I sprinkled my body with
the water with which his mother
had washed him and I was
presently made well.

20  And I am certain that he is
also capable of relieving you under
your distress.  Wherefore arise,
go to my mistress Mary, and when
you have brought her into your
own parlour, disclose to her the
secret, at the same time earnestly
beseeching her to compassionate
your case.

21  As soon as the women had
heard the girl's discourse, they
hastened away to the Lady St.
Mary, introduced themselves to
her, and sitting down before her,
they wept.

22  And said, O our Lady St.
Mary, pity your handmaids, for
we have no head of our family, no
one elder than us; no father or
brother to go in or out before us.

23  But this mule, which you
see, was our brother, which some
women by witchcraft have brought
into this condition which you see:
we therefore entreat you to com-
passionate us.

24  Hereupon St. Mary was
grieved at their case, and taking
the Lord Jesus, put him upon the
back of the mule.

25  And said to her son, O Jesus
Christ, restore (or heal) according
to thy extraordinary power this
mule, and grant him to have again
the shape of a man and a rational
creature, as he had formerly.

26  This was scarce said by the
Lady St. Mary, but the mule
immediately passed into a human
form, and became a young man
without any deformity.

27  Then he and his mother and
the sisters worshipped the Lady
St. Mary, and lifting the child
upon their heads, they kissed him,
and said, Blessed is thy mother,
O Jesus, O Saviour of the world!
Blessed are the eyes which are
so happy to see thee.

28  Then both the sisters told
their mother, saying, Of a truth,
our brother is restored to his former
shape by the help of the Lord
Jesus Christ, and the kindness
of that girl who told us of Mary
and her son.

29  And inasmuch as our brother
is unmarried, it is fit that we
marry him to this girl their
servant.

30  When they had consulted
Mary in this matter, and she had
given her consent, they made a
splendid wedding for this girl.

31  And so their sorrow being
turned into gladness, and their
mourning into mirth, they began
to rejoice, and to make merry,
and sing, being dressed in their
richest attire, with bracelets.

32  Afterwards they glorified and
praised God, saying, O Jesus, son
of David, who changest sorrow
into gladness, and mourning into
mirth!

33  After this Joseph and Mary
tarried there ten days, then went
away, having received great
respect from these people.

34  Who, when they took their
leave of them, and returned home,
cried,

35  But especially the girl.



CHAPTER VIII.

     1 Joseph and Mary pass through a country infested by robbers.
     3 Titus a humane thief, offers Dumachus, his comrade,
     forty groats to let Joseph and Mary pass unmolested.
     6 Jesus prophecies that the the thieves Dumachus and Titus shall be
     crucified with him and that Titus shall go before him into paradise.
     10 Christ causes a well to spring from a sycamore tree, and Mary
     washes his coat in it.
     11 A balsam grows there from his sweat.  They go to Memphis, where
     Christ works more miracles. Return to Judea.
     15 Being warned, depart for Nazareth.


IN their journey from hence they
came into a desert country and
were told it was infested with
robbers; so Joseph and St. Mary
prepared to pass through it in the
night.

2  And as they were going along,
behold they saw two robbers asleep
in the road, and with them a great
number of robbers, who were their
confederates, also asleep.

3  The names of these two were
Titus and Dumachus; and Titus
said to Dumachus, I beseech thee
let these persons go along quietly,
that our company may not perceive
anything of them.

4  But Damachus refusing, Titus
again said, I will give thee forty
groats, and as a pledge take my
girdle, which he gave him before
he had done speaking, that he
might not open his mouth or make
a noise.

5  When the Lady St. Mary saw
the kindness which this robber did
shew them, she said to him, The
Lord God will receive thee to his
right hand and grant thee pardon
of thy sins.

6  Then the Lord Jesus answered,
and said to his mother, When
thirty years are expired, O mother,
the Jews will crucify me at
Jerusalem;

7  And these two thieves shall
be with me at the same time upon
the cross, Titus on my right hand,
and Dumachus on my left, and
from that time Titus shall go before
me into paradise;

8  And when she had said, God
forbid this should be thy lot, O
my son, they went on to a city in
which were several idols; which,
as soon as they came near to it,
was turned into hills of sand.

9  Hence they  went to that
sycamore tree, which is now called
Matarea.

10  And in Materea the Lord
Jesus caused a well to spring
forth, in which St. Mary washed
his coat;

11  And a balsam is produced,
or grows, in that country, from
the sweat which ran down there
from the Lord Jesus.

12  Thence they proceeded to
Memphis, and saw Pharoah, and
abode three years in Egypt.

13  And the Lord Jesus did very
many miracles, in Egypt, which
are neither to be found in
Gospel of the Infancy nor in the
Gospel of Perfection.

14  At the end of three years
he returned out of Egypt, and
when he came near to Judea,
Joseph was afraid to enter;

15  For hearing that Herod was
dead, and that Archelaus his son
reigned in his stead, he was afraid.

16  And when he went to Judea,
an, angel of God appeard to
him, and said, O Joseph go
into the city of Nazareth, and
abide there.

17  It is strange indeed, that he,
who is the Lord of all countries,
should be thus carried backward and
forward, through so many countries.



CHAPTER IX.

2 Two sick children cured by water
wherein Christ was washed.

WHEN they came afterwards
into the city of Bethlehem,
they found there several very
desperate distempers, which became
so troublesome to children by seeing
them, that most of them died.

2  There was there a woman who
had a sick son, whom she brought,
when he was at the point of death,
to the Lady St. Mary, who saw
her when she was washing Jesus
Christ.

3  Then said the woman, O my
Lady Mary, look down upon this
my son, who is afflicted with most
dreadful pains.

4  St. Mary hearing her, said,
Take a little of that water with
which I have washed my son, and
sprinkle it upon him.

5  Then she took a little of that
water, as St. Mary had commanded,
and sprinkled it upon her son,
who being wearied with his violent
pains, was fallen asleep; and after
he had slept a little, awaked
perfectly well and recovered.

6  The mother being abundantly
glad of this success, went again to
St. Mary, and St. Mary said to
her, Give praise to God, who hath
cured this thy son.

7  There was in the same place
another woman, a neighbour of
her, whose son was now cured.

8  This woman's son was afflicted
with the same disease, and his eyes
were now almost quite shut, and
she was lamenting for him day
and night.

9  The mother of the child which
was cured, said to her, Why do
you not bring your son to St. Mary,
as I brought my son to her, when
he was in the agonies of death;
and he was cure by that water,
with which the body of her son
Jesus was washed?

10  When the woman heard her
say this, she also went, and having
procured the same water, washed
her son with it, whereupon his
body and his eyes were instantly
restored to their former state.

11  And when she brought her
son to St. Mary, and opened his
case to her, she commanded her to
give thanks to God for the recovery
of her son's health, and tell
no one what had happened.



CHAPTER X.

     1 Two wives of one man, each have a son sick.
     2 One of them named Mary, and whose son's name was Caleb,
     presents the Virgin with a handsome carpet, and Caleb is cured;
     but the son of the other wife dies,
     4 which occasions a difference between the women.
     5 The other wife puts Caleb into a hot oven, and he is
     miraculously preserved,
     9 she afterwards throws him into a well,
     and he is again preserved;
     11 his mother appeals to the Virgin against the other wife,
     12 whose downfall the Virgin prophecies,
     13 and who accordingly falls into the well,
     14 therein fulfilling a saying of old.

THERE were in the same city
two wives of one man, who
had each a son sick. One of them
was called Mary, and her son's
name was Caleb.

2  She arose, and taking her son,
went to the Lady St. Mary, the
mother of Jesus, and offered her a
very handsome carpet, saying, O
my Lady Mary accept this carpet
of me, and instead of it give me a
small swaddling cloth.

3  To this Mary agreed, and
when the mother of Caleb was
gone, she made a coat for her son
of the swaddling cloth, put it on
him, and his disease was cured;
but the son of the other wife died.

4  Hereupon there arose between
them a difference in doing
the business of the family by turns,
each her week;

5  And when the turn of Mary
the mother of Caleb came, and she
was heating the oven to bake
bread, and went away to fetch the
meal, she left her son Caleb by the
oven;

6  Whom the other wife, her
rival, seeing to be by himself,
took and cast him into the oven,
which was very hot, and then went
away.

7  Mary on her return saw her
son Caleb lying in the middle of
the oven laughing, and the oven
quite as cold as though it had not
been before heated, and knew that
her rival the other wife had thrown
him into the fire.

8  When she took him out, she
brought him to the Lady St. Mary,
and told her the story, to whom
she replied, Be quiet, I am con-
cerned lest thou shouldest make
this matter known.

9  After this her rival, the other
wife, as she was drawing water at
the well, and saw Caleb playing
by the well, and that no one was
near, took him, and threw him
into the well.

10  And when some men came to
fetch water from the well, they
saw the boy sitting on the
superficies of the water, and
drew him out with ropes, and were
exceedingly surprised at the child,
and praised God.

11 Then came the mother and
took him and carried him to the
Lady St. Mary, lamenting. and
saying, O my Lady, see what my
rival hath done to my son, and
how she hath cast him into the
well, and I do not question but
one time or other she will be the
occasion of his death.

12  St. Mary replied to her, God
will vindicate your injured cause.

13  Accordingly a few days after,
when the other wife came to the
well to draw water, her foot was
entangled in the rope, so that she
fell headlong into the well, and
they who ran to her assistance
found her skull broken, and bones
bruised.

14 So she came to a bad end,
and in her was fulfilled that saying
of the author, They digged a well,
and made it deep, but fell themselves
into the pit which they prepared.



CHAPTER XI.

     1 Bartholomew, when a child and sick, miraculously
     restored by being laid on Christ's bed.

ANOTHER woman in that city
had. likewise two son's sick.

2  And when one was dead, the
other, who lay at the point of
death, she took in her arms to the
Lady St. Mary, and in a flood of
tears addressed herself to her,
saying,

3  O my Lady, help and relieve
me; for I had two sons, the one I
have just now buried, the other I
see is fast at the point of death
behold how I (earnestly) seek for
your from God, and pray to him.

4 Then she said, O Lord, thou
art gracious, and merciful, and
kind; thou, hast given me two
sons; one of them thou halt taken
to thyself, O spare me this other.

5  St. Mary then perceiving the
greatness of her sorrow, pitied her
and said, Do thou place thy son in
my son's bed, and cover him with
his clothes.

6  And when she had placed him
in the bed wherein Christ lay,
at the moment when his eyes were
just closed by death; as soon as
ever the small of the garments of
the Lord Jesus Christ reached the
boy, his eyes were opened, and
calling with a loud voice to his
mother, he asked for bread, and
when he had received it, he sucked
it.

7  Than his mother said, O Lady
Mary, now I am assured that the
powers of God do dwell in you, so
that thy son can cure children who
are of the same sort as himself, as
soon as they touch his garments.

8 This boy, who was thus cured,
is the same who in the Gospel is
called Bartholomew.



CHAPTER XII.

       A leprous woman healed by Christ's washing water.
     7 A princess healed by it and restored to her husband.


AGAIN, there was a leprous
woman who went to the Lady
St. Mary, the mother of Jesus,
and said, O my Lady, help me.

2  St. Mary replied, What help
does thou desire? Is it gold or
silver, or that thy body be cured
of its leprosy?

3  Who, says the woman, can
grant me this?

4  St. Mary replied to her, Wait
a little till I have washed my son
Jesus, and put him to bed.

5  The woman waited, as she
was commanded; and Mary when
she had put Jesus in bed, giving
her the water with which she had
washed his body, said, Take some
of the water, and pour it upon thy
body;

6  Which when she had done,
she instantly became clean, and
praised God, and gave thanks to
him.

7  Then she went away, after
she had abode with her three
days;

8  And going into the city, she
saw a certain prince, who had
married another princes daughter;

9  But when he came to see her,
he perceived between her eyes the
signs of leprosy like a star, and
thereupon declared the marriage
dissolved and void.

10  When the woman saw these
persons in this condition, exceeding
sorrowful, and shedding abundance
of tears, she inquired of them
the reason of their crying;

11  They replied, inquire not
into our circumstances; for we
are not able to declare our
misfortunes to any, person,
whatsoever.

12  But she still pressed and
desired them to communicate their
case to her; intimating, that she
might be able to direct them
to a remedy.

13  So when they showed the young
woman to her, and the signs
of the leprosy, which appeared
between her eyes;

14  She said, I also whom ye
see in this place, was afflicted
with the same distemper, and going
on some business to Bethlehem, I
went into a certain cave, and saw
a woman named Mary, who had a
son called Jesus.

15  She seeing me to be leprous,
was concerned for me, and gave
me some water with which she
had washed her son's body, with
that I sprinkled my body, and
became clean.

16  Then said these women, Will
you Mistress, go along with us,
and show the Lady St. Mary to
us?

17  To which she consenting,
they arose and went to the Lady
St. Mary, taking with them very
noble presents.

18  And when they came in and
offered their presents to her,
they showed the leprous young woman
whom they brought with them to
her.

19  Then said St. Mary, The
mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ
rest upon you;

20  And giving them a little of
that water, with which she had
washed the body of Jesus Christ,
she bade them wash the diseased
person with it, which when they
had done, she was presently
cured;

21 So they, and all who were
present, praised God; and being
filled with joy, they went back to
their own city, and gave praises to
God on that account.

22  Then the prince hearing that
his wife was cured, took her home
and made a second marriage, giving
thanks unto God for the recovery
of his wife's health.



CHAPTER XIII.

     1 A girl, whose blood Satan sucked receives one
     of Christ's swaddling clothes from the Virgin,
     14 Satan comes like a dragon, and she shews it to him;
     flames and burning coals proceed from it and fall upon him;
     19 he is miraculously discomfited, and leaves the girl.

THERE was also a girl, who
was afflicted by Satan,

2  For that cursed spirit did
frequently appear to her in the shape
of a dragon, and was inclined to
swallow her up, and had so sucked
out all her blood, that she looked
like a dead carcass.

3  As often as she came to herself,
with her hands wringed about
her head she would cry out, and
say, Wo, Wo is me, that there is
no one to be found, who can deliver
me from that impious dragon!

4  Her father and mother, and
all who were about her and saw
her, mourned and wept over her;

5  And all who were present
would especially be under sorrow
and in tears, when they heard her
bewailing and saying, My brethren
and friends, is here no one who can
deliver me from this murderer?

6  Then the prince's daughter,
who had been cured of her leprosy,
hearing the complaint of that girl,
went upon the top of her castle,
and saw her with her hands twisted
about her head, pouring out a flood
of tears, and all the people that
were about her in tears.

7  Then she asked the husband
of the possessed person, Whether
his wife's mother was alive? He
told her, That her father and mo-
ther were both alive,

8  Then she ordered her mother
to be sent to her; to whom, when
she saw her coming, she said,
Is this possessed girl thy daughter?
She moaning and bewailing said,
Yes madam I bore her.

9  The prince's daughter answered,
Disclose the secret of her case to me,
for I confess to you that I was leprous,
but the Lady Mary, the mother of
Jesus Christ, healed me.

10  And if you desire your
daughter to be restored to her
former state, take her to Bethlehem,
and inquire for Mary the mother
of Jesus, and doubt not but your
daughter will be cured; for I do
not question but you will come
home with great joy at your
daughter's recovery.

11  As soon as ever she had done
speaking, she arose and went with
her daughter to the place appointed,
and to Mary, and told her the case
of her daughter.

12  When St. Mary had heard
her story, she gave her a little
of the water with which she had
washed the body of her son Jesus,
and bade her pour it upon the
body of her daughter.

13 Likewise she gave her one of
the swaddling cloths of the Lord
Jesus, and said, Take this swad-
dling cloth, and shew it to thine
enemy as often as thou seest him
and she sent them away in
peace.

14  After they bad left that
city and returned home, and the
time was come in which Satan was
wont to seize her, in the same
moment this cursed spirit appeared
to her in the shape of a huge
dragon, and the girl seeing him
was afraid,

15  The mother said to her, Be
not afraid, daughter; let him alone
till he come nearer to thee! then
shew him the swaddling cloth,
which the Lady Mary gave us, and
we shall see the event.

16  Satan then coming like a
dreadful dragon, the body of the
girl trembled for fear.

17  But as soon as she had put
the swaddling cloth upon her
head, and about her eyes, and
chewed it to him, presently there
issued forth from the swaddling
cloth flames and burning coals,
and fell upon the dragon.

18  Oh! how great a miracle was
this, which was done: as soon as
the dragon saw the swaddling
cloth of the Lord Jesus, fire went
forth and was scattered upon his
head and eyes; so that he cried
out with a loud voice, What have
I to do with thee, Jesus, thou son
of Mary? Whither shall I flee
from thee?

19 So he drew back much af-
frighted, and left the girl.

20 And she was delivered from
this trouble, and sang praises and
thanks to God, and with her all
who were present at the working
of the miracle.



CHAPTER XIV.

     1 Judas when a boy possessed by Satan, and brought up
     by his parents to Jesus to be cured, whom he tries to bite,
     7 but failing, strikes Jesus and makes him cry out.
     Whereupon Satan goes from Jesus in the shape of a dog.

ANOTHER woman likewise
lived there, whose son was
possessed by Satan,

2  This boy, named Judas, as
often as Satan seized him, was
inclined to bite all that were
present; and if he found no one else
near him, he would bite his own
hands and other parts.

3  But the mother of this miserable
boy, hearing of St. Mary and her son
Jesus, arose presently and taking
her son in her arms, brought him
to the Lady Mary.

4  In the meantime, James and
Joses had taken away the infant,
the Lord Jesus, to play at a proper
season with other children;
and when they went forth, they
sat down and the Lord Jesus with
them.

5  Then Judas, who was possessed,
came and sat down at the right hand
of Jesus.

6  When Satan was acting upon him
as usual, he went about to bite
the Lord Jesus.

7  And because he could not do
it, he struck Jesus on the right
side, so that he cried out.

8  And in the same moment Satan
went out of the boy, and ran
away like a mad dog.

9  This same boy who struck
Jesus, and out of whom Satan west
in the form of a dog, was Judas
Iscariot, who betrayed him to the
Jews.

10  And that same side, on which
Judas: struck him, the Jews
pierced with a spear.



CHAPTER XV.

     1 Jesus and other boys play together,
     and make clay figures of animals.
     4 Jesus causes them to walk,
     6 also makes clay birds, which he causes to fly,
     and eat and drink.
     7 The children's parents alarmed,
     and take Jesus for a sorcerer.
     8 He goes to a dyer's shop, and throws all the
     cloths into the furnace, and works a miracle therewith.
     15 Whereupon the Jews praise God.

AND when the Lord Jesus was
seven years of age, he was
on a certain day with other boys
his companions about the same
age;

2  Who, when they were at play,
made clay into several shapes,
namely-asses, oxen, birds, and
other figures;

3  Each boasting of his work,
and endeavouring to exceed the
rest.

4  Then the Lord Jesus said to
the boys, I will command these
figures which I have made to
walk.

5  And immediately they moved,
and when he commanded them to
return, they returned.

6  He had also made the figures
of birds and sparrows, which,
when he commanded to fly, did
fly, and when he commanded to
stand still, did stand still; and if
he gave them meat and drink, they
did eat and drink.

7  When at length the boys went
away, and related these things to
their parents, their fathers said to
them, Take heed, children, for the
future of his company, for he is a
sorcerer; shun and avoid him, and
from henceforth never play with
him.

8  On a certain day also, when
the Lord Jesus was playing with
the boys, and running about, he
passed by a dyer's shop, whose
name was Salem.

9  And there were in his shop
many pieces of cloth belonging to
the people of that city, which they
designed to dye of several colours.

10  Then the Lord Jesus going
into the dyer's shop, took all the
cloths, and threw them into the
furnace.

11  When Salem came home, and
saw the cloths spoiled, he began to
make a great noise, and to chide
the Lord Jesus, saying,

12  What hast thou done to me,
O thou son of Mary? Thou hast
injured both me and my neighbours;
they all desired their cloths
of a proper colour; but thou hast
come and spoiled them all.

13  The Lord Jesus replied, I
will change the colour of every
cloth to what colour thou desirest.

14  And then he presently began
to take the cloths out of the furnace,
and they were all dyed of those same
colours which the dyer desired.

15  And when the Jews saw this
surprising miracle, they praised
God.



CHAP. XVI.

     1 Christ miraculously widens or contracts the gates,
     milk pails, sieves, or boxes, not properly made by Joseph,
     4 he not being skilful at his carpenter's trade.
     5 The King of Jerusalem gives Joseph an order for a throne.
     6 Joseph works on it for two years in the king's palace,
     and makes it two spans too short. The king being angry with him,
     10 Jesus comforts him,
     13 commands him to pull one side of the throne, while he
     pulls the other, and brings it to its proper dimensions.
     14 Whereupon the bystanders praise God.

AND Joseph, wheresoever he
went in the city, took the
Lord Jesus with him, where he
was sent for to work to make
gates, or milk-pails, or sieves, or
boxes; the Lord Jesus was with
him, wheresoever be went.

2  And as often as Joseph had
anything in his work, to make
longer, or shorter, or wider, or
narrower, the Lord Jesus would
stretch his hand towards it.

3  And presently it became as
Joseph would have it:

4  So that he had no need to
finish anything with his own hands,
for he was not very skilful at his
carpenter's trade.

5  On a certain time the King
of Jerusalem sent for him, and
said, I would have thee make me
a throne of the same dimensions
with that place in which I
commonly sit.

6  Joseph obeyed, and forthwith
began the work, and continued two
years in the king's palace before
he finished it.

7  And when he came to fix it
in its place, he found it wanted
two spans on each side of the
appointed messure.

8  Which when the king saw,
he was very angry with Joseph;

9  And Joseph afraid of the
king's anger, went to bed without
his supper, taking not any thing
to eat.

10  Then the Lord Jesus asked
him, What he was afraid of?

11  Joseph replied, Because I
have lost my labour in the work
which I have been about these two
years.

12  Jesus said to him, Fear not,
neither be cast down;

13  Do thou lay hold on one side
of the throne, and I will the other,
and we will bring it to its just
dimensions.

14  And when Joseph had done
as the Lord Jesus said, and each
of them had with strength drawn
his side, the throne obeyed, and
was brought to the proper
dimensions of the place:

15 Which miracle when they
who stood by saw, they were
astonished, and praised God.

16 The throne was made of the
same wood which was in being
in Solomon's time, namely, wood
adorned with various shapes, and
figures.



CHAP. XVII.

     1 Jesus plays with boys at hide and seek.
     3 Some women put his playfellows in a furnace,
     7 where they are transformed by Jesus into kids.
     10 Jesus calls them to go and play, and they
     are restored to their former shape.

ON another day the Lord Jesus
going out into the street,
and seeing some boys who were
met to play, joined himself to their
company.

2 But when they saw him, they
hid themselves, and left him to
seek for them;

3 The Lord Jesus came to the
gate of a certain house, and asked
some women who were standing
there, Where the boys were gone?

4 And when they answered,
That there was no one there; the
Lord Jesus said, Who are those
whom ye see in the furnace?

5 They answered, They were
kids of three years old.

6 Then Jesus cried out aloud,
and said, Come out hither, O ye
kids, to your shepherd;

7 And presently the boys came
forth like kids, and leaped about
him; which when the women saw,
they were exceedingly amazed, and
trembled,

8 Then they immediately worshipped,
the Lord Jesus, and beseeched him,
saying, O our Lord Jesus, son of
Mary, thou art truly that good
shepherd of Israel! have mercy
on thy handmaids, who stand before
thee, who do not doubt, but that
thou, O Lord, art come to save,
and not to destroy.

9  After that, when the Lord
Jesus said, the children of Israel
are like Ethiopians among the
people; the women said, Thou,
Lord, knowest all things, nor is
any thing concealed from thee:
but now we entreat thee, and
beseech of thy mercy, that thou
wouldest restore those boys to
their former state.

10 Then Jesus said, Come hither,
O boys, that we may go and
play; and immediately, in the
presence of these women, the kids
were changed, and retuned into
the shape of boys.



CHAPTER XVIII.

     1 Jesus becomes the king of his playfellows,
     and they crown him with flowers;
     4 miraculously causes a serpent who had
     bitten Simon the Cananite, then a boy,
     to suck out all the poison again;
     16 the serpent bursts, and Christ restores the boy to health.


IN the month Adar Jesus
gathered together the boys, and
ranked them as though he had
been a king.

2  For they spread their garments
on the ground for him to sit
on; and having made a crown of
flowers, put it upon his head, and
stood on his right and left as the
guards of a king.

3  And if any one happened to
pass by, they took him by force,
and said, Come hither, and worship
the king, that you may have a
prosperous journey.

4  In the mean time, while
these things were doing, there
came certain men, carrying a boy
upon a couch;

5  For this boy having gone with
his companions to the mountain to
gather wood, and having found
there a partridge's nest, and put
his hand in to take out the eggs,
was stung by a poisonous serpent,
which leaped out of the nest; so
that he was forced to cry out for
the help of his companions; who,
when they came, found him lying
upon the earth like a dead person.

6  After which his neighbours
came and carried him back into
the city.

7  But when they came to the
place where the Lord Jesus, was
sitting like a king, and the other
boys stood around him like his
ministers, the boys made haste to
meet him, who was bitten by the
serpent, and said to his neighbours,
Come and pay your respects to the
king;

8  But when, by reason of their
sorrow, they refused to come, the
boys drew them, and forced them
against their wills to come.

9  And when they came to the
Lord Jesus, he inquired, On what
account they carried that boy?

10  And when they answered that
a serpent had bitten him, the Lord
Jesus said to the boys, Let us go
and kill that serpent.

11  But when the parents of the
boy desired to be excused, because
their son lay at the point of death;
the boys made answer, and said,
Did not ye hear what the king
said? Let us go and kill the serpent;
and will not ye obey him?

12  So they brought the couch
back again, whether they would
or not.

13  And when they were come to
the nest, the Lord Jesus said to
the boys, Is this the serpent's
lurking place? They said, It was.

14  Then the Lord Jesus calling
the serpent, it presently came forth
and submitted to him; to whom he
said, Go and suck out all the poison
which thou hast infused into that
boy:

15  So the serpent crept to the
boy, and took away all its poison
again.

16  Then the Lord Jesus cursed
the serpent, so that it immediately
burst asunder, and died;

17  And he touched the boy with
his hand to restore him to his
former health;

18  And when he began to cry,
the Lord Jesus said, Cease crying
for hereafter thou shale be my
disciple;

19 And this is that Simon the
Canaanite, who is mentioned in
the Gospel.



CHAPTER XIX.

     1 James being bitten by a viper,
     Jesus blows on the wound and cures him.
     4 Jesus charged with throwing a boy from
     the roof of, a house,
     10 miraculously raises the dead boy to acquit him;
     12 fetches watsr for his mother, breaks the pitcher
     and miraculously gathers the water in his mantle
     and brings it home;
     16 makes fish pools on the Sabbath,
     20 causes a boy to die who broke them down,
     22 another boy runs against him,
     whom he also causes to die.

ON another day Joseph sent his
son James to gather wood,
and the Lord Jesus went with
him;

2  And when they came to the
place where the wood was, and
James began to gather it, behold,
a venemous viper bit him, so that
he began to cry, and make a
noise.

3  The Lord Jesus seeing him in
this condition, came to him, and
blowed upon the place where the
viper had bit him, and it was
instantly well.

4  On a certain day the Lord
Jesus was with some boys, who
were playing on the house-top,
and one of the boys fell down, and
presently died.

5  Upon which the other boys all
running away, the Lord Jesus was
left alone on the house-top.

6  And the boy's relations came
to him and said to the Lord Jesus,
Thou didst throw our son down
from the house-top.

7  But he denying it, they cried
out, Our son is dead, and this is
he who killed him.

8  The Lord Jesus replied to
them, Do not charge me with a
crime of which you are not able to
convict me, but let us go and ask
the boy himself, who will bring
the truth to light.

9  Then the Lord Jesus going
down stood over the head of the
dead boy, and said with a loud
voice, Zeinunus, Zeinunus, who
threw thee down from the housetop?

10  Then the dead boy answered,
thou didst not throw me down,
but such a one did.

11  And when the Lord Jesus
bade those who stood by to take
present praised God on account
of that miracle.

12  On a certain time the
Lady St. Mary had commanded
the Lord Jesus to fetch her some
water out of the well;

13  And when he had gone to
fetch the water, the pitcher, when
it was brought up full, brake;

14  But Jesus spreading his mantle
gathered up the water again,
and brought it in that to his
mother;

15  Who, being astonished at
this wonderful thing, laid up this,
and all the other things which she
had seen, in her memory.

16  Again on another day the
Lord Jesus was with some boys
by a river, and they drew water
out of the river by little channels,
and made little fish-pools.

17  But the Lord Jesus had
made twelve sparrows, and placed
them about his pool on each side,
three on a side.

18  But it was the Sabbath day,
and the son of Hanani a Jew came
by, and saw them making these
things, and said, Do ye thus make
figures of clay on the Sabbath?
And he ran to them, and broke
down their fish-pools.

19  But when the Lord Jesus
clapped his hands over the sparrows
which he had made, they fled away
chirping.

20  At length the son of Hanani
coming to the fish-pool of Jesus
to destroy it, the water vanished
away, and the Lord Jesus said to
him,

21  In like manner as this water
had vanished, so shall thy life
vanish; and presently the boy
died.

22  Another time, when the
Lord Jesus was coming home in
the evening with Joseph, he met
a boy, who ran so hard against
him, that he threw him down;

23  To whom the Lord Jesus
said, As thou hast thrown me
down, so shalt thou fall, nor ever
rise.

24 And that moment the boy
fell down and died.



CHAPTER XX.

     4 Christ sent to school to Zaccheus to learn
     his letters, and teaches Zaccheus.
     13 Sent to another schoolmaster,
     14 refuses to tell his letters, and the schoolmaster
     going to whip him, his hand withers and he dies.

THERE was also at Jerusalem
one named Zaccheus, who
was a schoolmaster:

2  And he said to Joseph, Joseph,
why dost thou not send Jesus to me,
that he may learn his letters?

3  Joseph agreed, and told St. Mary;

4  So they brought him to that
master; who, as soon as he saw
him, wrote out an alphabet for him,

5  And he bade him say Aleph;
and when he had said Aleph, the
master bade him pronounce Beth.

6  Then the Lord Jesus said to
him, Tell me first the meaning of
the letter Aleph, and then I will
pronounce Beth.

7  And when the master threat-
ened to whip him, the Lord Jesus
explained to him the meaning of
the letters Aleph and Beth;

8  Also which were the straight
figures of the letters, which the
oblique, and what letters had
double figures; which had points,
and which had none; why one
letter went before another; and
many other things he began to tell
him, and explain, of which the
master himself had never heard,
nor read in any book.

9  The Lord Jesus farther said
to the master, Take notice how I
say to thee; then he began clearly
and distinctly to say Aleph, Beth,
Gimel, Daleth, and so on to the
end of the alphabet.

10  At this the master was so
surprised, that he said, I believe
this boy was born before Noah;

11  And turning to Joseph, he
said, Thou hast brought a boy to
me to be taught, who is more
learned than any master.

12  He said also to St. Mary,
This your son has no need of any
learning.

13  They brought him then
to a more learned master, who,
when he saw him, said, say Aleph;

14  And when he had sand Aleph,
the master bade him pronounce
Beth; to which the Lord Jesus
replied, Tell me first the meaning
of the letter Aleph, and then I
will pronounce Beth.

15  But this master, when he did
lift up his hand to whip him, had
his hand presently withered, and
he died.

16 Then said Joseph to St. Mary,
Henceforth we will not allow him
to go out of the house; for every
one who displeases him is killed.



CHAPTER XXI.

     [Compare Luke ii. 42, whose meagre account is deficient
     of the sublime details here given of the subjects disputed upon.]

     1 Disputes learnedly with the doctors in the temple,
     7 on law,
     9 on astronomy,
     12 on physics and metaphysics.
     21 Is worshiped by a philosopher,
     28 and fetched home by his mother.

AND when he was twelve years
old, they brought him to
Jerusalem to the feast; and when
the feast was over, they returned.

2  But the Lord Jesus continued
behind in the temple among the
doctors and elders, and learned
men of Israel; to whom he proposed
several questions of learning,
and also gave them answers:

3  For he said to them, Whose
son is the Messiah?  They answered,
the son of David.

4  Why then, said he, does he in
the spirit call him Lord? When he
saith, The Lord said to my Lord,
sit thou at my right hand, till I
have made thine enemies thy foot-
stool.

5  Then a certain principal Rabbi
asked him, Hast thou read books?

6  Jesus answered, be had read
both books, and the things which
were contained in books.

7  And he explamed to them the
books of the law, and precepts,
and statutes: and the mysteries
which are contained in the books
of the prophets; things which
the mind of no creature could
reach.

8  Then said that Rabbi, I never
yet have seen or heard of such
knowledge! What do you think
that boy will be?

9  When a certain astronomer,
who was present, asked the Lord
Jesus, Whether he had studied
astronomy?

10  The Lord Jesus replied, and
told him the number of the spheres
and heavenly bodies, as also their
triangular, square, and sextile
aspect; their progressive and
retrograde motion; their size and
several prognostications; and other
things which the reason of man
had never discovered.

11  There was also among them
a philosopher well skilled in
physic and natural philosophy,
who asked the Lord Jesus, Whether
he had studied physic?

12  He replied, and explained to
him physics and metaphysics.

13  Also those things which were
above and below the power of nature;

14  The powers also of the body,
its humours, and their effects.

15  Also the number of its members,
and bones, veins, arteries,
and nerves;

16  The several constitutions of
body, hot and dry, cold and moist,
and the tendencies of them;

17  How the soul operated upon
the body;

18  What its various sensations
and faculties, were;

19  The faculty of speaking, anger,
desire;

20  And lastly the manner of its
composition and dissolution; and
other things, which the under-
standing of no creature had ever
reached.

21  Then that philosopher arose,
and worshipped the Lord Jesus,
and said, O Lord Jesus, from
henceforth I will be thy disciple
and servant.

22  While they were discours-
ing on these and such like things,
the Lady St. Mary came in, having
been three days walking about
with Joseph, seeking for him.

23  And when she saw him sitting
among the doctors, and in his turn
proposing questions to them, and
giving answers, she said to him,
My son, why hast thou done thus
by us? Behold I and thy father
have been at much pains in
seeking thee.

24  He replied, Why did  ye seek
me? Did ye not know that I ought
to be employed in my father's
house?

25  But they understood not the
words which he said to them.

26  Then the doctors asked Mary,
Whether this were her son? And
when she said, He was, they said,
O happy Mary, who hast borne
such a son.

27  Then he returned with them
to Nazareth, and obeyed them in
all things.

28  And his mother kept all these
things in her mind;

29  And the Lord Jesus grew in
stature and wisdom, and favour
with God and man.



CHAPTER XXII.

     1 Jesus conceals his miracles,
     2 studies the law,
     3 and is baptized.

NOW from this time Jesus began
to conceal his miracles and
secret works,

2  And gave himself to the study
of the law, till he arrived to the
end of his thirtieth year;

3  At which time the Father publicly
owned him at Jordan, sending
down this voice from heaven, This
is my beloved son, in whom I am
well pleased;

4  The Holy Ghost being also
present in the form of a dove.

5  This is he whom we worship
with all reverence, because he gave
us our life and being, and brought
us from our mother's womb,
Glory to God,

6  Who, for our sakes, took a
human body, and hath redeemed
us, that so he might embrace
us with everlasting mercy, and
shew his free, large, bountiful
grace and goodness to us.

7  To him be glory and praise,
and power, and dominion, from
henceforth said for evermore.
Amen.

(The end of the whole Gospel of
the Infancy, by the assistance of
the Supreme God, according to
what we found in the original.)




                   REFERENCES TO THE FIRST GOSPEL OF
                      THE INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST

[Mr. Henry Sike, Professor of Oriental Languages at Cambridge, first
translated and published this Gospel in 1697. It was received by the
Gnostics, a sect of Christians in the second century; and several of its
relations were credited in  the following ages by other Christians, viz.,
Eusebius, Athanasius, Epiphanius; Chrysostom. &c. Sozomen says, he was
told by many, and he crdits the relations, of the idols in Egypt falling
down on Joseph, and Mary's flight thither with Christ; and of Christ
making a well to wash his clothes in a sycamore-tree, from whence balsam
afterwards proceeded; which stories are from this Gospel. Chemnitius, out
of Stipulensis, who had it from Peter Martyr, Bishop  of Alexandria, in
the third century, says, that the place in Egypt where Christ  was
banished is now called Matarea, about ten miles beyond Cairo; that the
inhabitants constantly burn a lamp in remembrance of it; and that there
is a garden of trees yielding a balsam, which were planted by Christ when
a boy.  M. La Crosse cites a synod at Angamala, in the Mountain of
Malabar, A. D.  1599, which shows this Gospel was commonly read by the
Nestorians in the country. Ahmed Ibu Idris, a Mahometan divine, says, it
was used by some  Christians in common with the other four Gospels; and
Ocobius de Castro mentions a Gospel of Thomas, which he says, he saw and
had translated to him by an Armenian Archbishop at Amsterdam, that was
read in very many churches of Asia and Africa, as the only rule of their
faith. Fabricius takes it to be this Gospel. It has been supposed, that
Mahomet and his coadjutors used it in compiling the Koran. There are
several stories believed of Christ, proceeding from this Gospel; as that
which Mr. Sike relates out of La Brosse's Persic Lexicon, that Christ
practised the trade of a dyer, and his working a miracle with the
colours; from whence the Persian dyers honour him as their patron, and
call a dye-house the shop of Christ. Sir John Chardin mentions Persian
legends concerning Christ's dispute with his schoolmaster about his ABC;
and his lengthening the cedar-board which Joseph sawed too short.]



        Note on the Miracles of Christ in the preceding Gospels.

A great void in the early life of the Saviour is filled up by these
Gospels. In none of the Canonical Evangelists is any mention made of the
childhood of Jesus.  The Gospels of Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, more
rapidly than satisfactorily, pass over the period intervening between His
birth and ministry. It is natural to suppose that the Infant Redeemer's
earliest days were spent in the society of other young children, and it
is quite consistent with every sincere Christians faith to  believe that
He had the power to perform the miracles here ascribed to him otherwise,
a limit will be set to His divine attributes, doubts raised against His
performance of the miracles related by the four Evangelists, in the
authorised version of the Testament, and a denial given of the
declaration therein, "With  GOD nothing is impossible!"




                 THE SECOND, OR ST. THOMAS'S GOSPEL OF
                      THE INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST.

    An Account of the ACTIONS and MIRACLES of our Lord and Saviour
                      JESUS CHRIST in his INFANCY.


CHAPTER I.

     2 Jesus miraculously clears the water after rain.
     4 Plays with clay sparrows, which he animates
     on the Sabbath day.

I THOMAS, an Israelite, judged
it necessary to make known to
our brethren among the Gentiles,
the actions and miracles of Christ
in his childhood, which our Lord
and God Jesus Christ wrought
after his birth in Bethlehem in our
country, at which I myself, was
astonished; the beginning of which
was as followeth.

2  When the child Jesus was
five years of age, and there had
been a shower of rain, which was
now over, Jesus was playing with
other Hebrew boys by a running
stream; and the water running
over the banks, stood in little
lakes;

3  But the water instantly became
clear and useful again; he
having smote them only by his
word, they readily obeyed him.

4  Then he took from the bank
of the stream some soft clay, and
formed out of it twelve sparrows;
and there were other boys playing
with him.

5  But a certain Jew seeing the
things which he was doing, namely,
his forming clay into the figures
of sparrows on the Sabbath day,
went presently away, and told
his father Joseph, and said,

6  Behold, thy boy is playing by
the river side, and has taken clay,
and formed it into twelve sparrows,
and profaneth the Sabbath.

7  Then Joseph came to the
place where he was, and when he
saw him, called to him, and said,
Why doest thou that which it is
not lawful to do on the Sabbath
day?

8  Then Jesus clapping together
the palms of his hands, called to
the sparrows, and said to them
Go, fly away; and while ye live
remember me.

9  So the sparrows fled away
making a noise.

10  The Jews seeing this, were
astonished, and went away, and
told their chief persons what a
strange miracle they had seen
wrought by Jesus.



CHAPTER II.

     2 Causes a boy to wither who broke down his fish-pools;
     6 Partly restores him.
     7 Kills another boy.
     16 causes blindness to fall on his accusers,
     18 for which, Joseph pulls him by the ear.

BESIDES this, the son of Annas
the scribe, was standing there
with Joseph, and took a bough
of a willow tree, and scattered
the waters which Jesus had
gathered into lakes.

2  But the boy Jesus seeing what
he had done, became angry, and
said to him, Thou fool, what harm
did the lake do thee, that thou
shouldest scatter the water?

3  Behold, now thou shalt wither
as a tree, and shalt not bring forth
either leaves, or branches, or fruit.

4  And immediately he became
withered all over.

5  Then Jesus went away home.
But the parents of the boy who
was withered, lamenting the
misfortune of his youth, took and
carried him to Joseph, accusing him,
and said, Why dost thou keep a
son who is guilty of such actions?

6  Then Jesus at the request of
all who were present did heal him,
leaving only some small member
to continue withered, that they
might take warning.

7  Another time Jesus went
forth into the street, and a boy
running by, rushed upon his
shoulder;

8  At which Jesus being angry,
said to him, Thou shalt go no far.
ther;

9  And he instantly fell down
dead:

10  Which when some persons
saw, they said, Where was this
boy born, that every thing which
he says presently cometh to pass?

11  Then the parents of the dead
boy going to Joseph, complained,
saying, You are not fit to live with
us, in our city, having such a boy
as that:

12  Either teach him that he
bless and not curse, or else depart
hence with him, for he kills our
children.

13  Then Joseph calling the
boy Jesus by himself, instructed
him, saying, Why doest thou such
things to injure the people so, that
they hate us and prosecute us?

14  But Jesus replied, I know
that what thou sayest is not of
thyself, but for thy sake I will
say nothing;

15  But they who have said these
things to thee, shall suffer ever-
lasting punishment.

16  And immediately they who
had accused him became blind,

17  And all they who saw it were
exceedingly afraid and confounded,
and said concerning him, Whatsoever
he saith, whether good or bad,
immediately cometh to pass and
they were amazed.

18  And when they saw this action
of Christ, Joseph arose, and
plucked him by the ear, at which
the boy was angry, and said to
him, Be easy;

19  For if they seek for us, they
shall not find us: thou hast done
very imprudently.

20  Dost thou not know that I
am thine? Trouble me no more.



CHAPTER III.

     1 Astonishes his schoolmaster by his learning.

A CERTAIN schoolmaster
named Zaccheaus, standing
in a certain place, heard Jesus
speaking these things to his father.

2  And he was much surprised,
that being a child he should speak
such things; and after a few days
he came to Joseph, and said,

3  Thou hast a wise and sensible
child, send him to me, that he may
learn to read.

4  When he sat down to teach
the letters to Jesus, he began with
the first letter Aleph;

5  But Jesus pronounced the
second letter Mpeth (Beth) Cghimel
(Gimel), and said over all the
letters to him to the end.

6  Then opening a book, he
taught his master the prophets
but he was ashamed, and was at a
loss to conceive how he came to
know the letters.

7  And he arose and went home,
wonderfully surprised at so strange
a thing.



CHAPTER IV.

     1 Fragment of an adventure at a dyer's.

AS Jesus was passing by a certain
shop, he saw a young man dipping
(or dyeing) some cloths and stockings
in a furnace, of a sad colour, doing
them according to every person's
particular order;

2  The boy Jesus going to the
young man who was doing this,
took also some of the cloths ......

(Here endeth the fragment of
Thomas's Gospel of the Infancy
of Jesus Christ.)




               REFERRENCE TO ST. THOMAS'S GOSPEL OF THE
                        INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST.

[The original in Greek, from which this translation is made, will be
found printed  by Cotelerius, in his notes on the constitutions of the
Apostles, from a MS. in the French King's Library, No. 2279.--It is
attributed to St. Thomas, and  conjectured to have been originally
connected with the, Gospel of Mary.  Unfortunately this ancient MS. was
found torn at the second verse of the  fourth chapter.]








This eBook was produced by David Widger <widger@cecomet.net>
Additional proofing was done by Curtis A. Weyant





                                  THE
                              SUPPRESSED
                          GOSPELS AND EPISTLES
                            OF THE ORIGINAL
                             NEW TESTAMENT
                                   OF
                            JESUS THE CHRIST

          AND OTHER PORTIONS OF THE ANCIENT HOLY SCRIPTURES.
                       NOW EXTANT, ATTRIBUTED TO
                  HIS APOSTLES, AND THEIR DISCIPLES,
       AND VENERATED BY THE PRIMITIVE CHRISTIAN CHURCHES DURING
                       THE FIRST FOUR CENTURIES,
                 BUT SINCE, AFTER VIOLENT DISPUTATIONS
                            FORBIDDEN BY THE
                     BISHOPS OF THE NICENE COUNCIL,
                IN THE REIGN OF THE EMPEROR CONSTANTINE
             AND OMITTED FROM THE CATHOLICS AND PROTESTANT
            EDITIONS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, BY ITS COMPILERS

         TRANSLATED FROM THE ORIGINAL TONGUES, WITH HISTORICAL
                   REFERENCES TO THEIR AUTHENTICITY,

                                  BY
                            ARCHBISHOP WAKE
                               AND OTHER
                            LEARNED DIVINES






                          THE FIRST GOSPEL OF
                      THE INFANCY OF JESUS CHRIST.



CHAPTER I.

     1 Caiphas relates that Jesus, when in his cradle,
     informed his mother that he was the Son of God.
     5 Joseph and Mary going to Bethlehem to be taxed, Mary's
     time of bringing forth arrives, and she goes into a cave.
     8 Joseph fetches in a Hebrew woman. The cave filled with
     great lights.
     11 The infant born,
     17 and cures the woman.
     19 Arrival of the shepherds.

THE following accounts we found
in the book of Joseph the
high-priest, called by some
Caiphas:

2  He relates, that Jesus spake
even when he was in the cradle,
and said to his mother:

3  Mary, I am Jesus the Son of
God, that word, which thou didst
bring forth according to the
declaration of the angel Gabriel to
thee, and my father hath sent me
for the salvation of the world.

4  In the three hundred and
ninth year of the era of Alexander,
Augustus published a decree that
all persons should go to be taxed
in their own country.

5  Joseph therefore arose, and
with Mary his spouse he went to
Jerusalem, and then came to Bethlehem,
that he and his family might be taxed
in the city of his fathers.

6  And when they came by the cave,
Mary confessed to Joseph that her
time of bringing forth was come,
and she could not go on to the city,
and said, Let us go into this cave.

7  At that time the sun was very
near going down.

8  But Joseph hastened away,
that he might fetch her a midwife;
and when he saw an old Hebrew
woman who was of Jerusalem, he
said to her, Pray come hither,
good woman, and go into that cave,
and you will there see a woman
just ready to bring forth.

9  It was after sunset, when the
old woman and Joseph with her
reached the cave, and they both
went into it.

10  And behold, it was all filled
with lights, greater than the light
of lamps and candles, and greater
than the light of the sun itself.

11  The infant was then wrapped
up in swaddling clothes, and sucking
the breasts of his mother St.
Mary.

12  When they both saw this
light, they were surprised; the
old woman asked St. Mary, Art
thou the mother of this child?

13  St. Mary replied, She was.

14  On which the old woman
said, Thou art very different from
all other women.

15  St. Mary answered, As there
is not any child like to my son,
so neither is there any woman like
to his mother.

16  The old woman answered,
and said, O my Lady, I am come
hither that I may obtain an
everlasting reward.

17  Then our Lady St. Mary
said to her, Lay thine hands upon
the infant, which, when she had
done, she became whole.

18  And as she was going forth,
she said, From henceforth, all the
days of my life, I will attend upon
and be a servant of this infant.

19  After this, when the shepherds
came, and had made a fire, and they
were exceedingly rejoiceing, the
heavenly host appeared to them,
praising and adoring the supreme God.

20  And as the shepherds were
engaged in the same employment,
the cave at that time seemed like
a glorious temple, because both
the tongues of angels and men
united to adore and magnify God,
on account of the birth of the Lord
Christ.

21  But when the old Hebrew
woman saw all these evident miracles,
she gave praises to God, and
said, I thank thee, O God, thou
God of Israel, for that mine eyes
have seen the birth of the Saviour
of the world.



CHAP. II.

     1 The child circumcised in the cave,
     2 and the old woman preserving his foreskin or navel-string in a
     box of spikenard, Mary afterwards annoints Christ with it.
     5 Christ brought to the temple;
     6 He shines,
     7 and angels stand around him adoring.
     8 Simeon praises Christ.

AND when the time of his
circumcision was come: namely,
the eighth day, on which the
law commanded the child to be
circumcised; they circumcised
him in the cave.

2  And the old Hebrew woman
took the foreskin (others say she
took the navel-string), and preserved
it in an alabaster-box of old oil
of spikenard.

3  And she had a son who was a
druggist, to whom she said, Take
heed thou sell not this alabaster-
box of spikenard-ointment, although
thou shouldst be offered three
hundred pence for it.

4  Now this is that alabaster-
box which Mary the sinner procured,
and poured forth the ointment out
of it upon the head and the feet
of our Lord Jesus Christ, and wiped
them off with the hairs of her head.

5  Then after ten days they
brought him to Jerusalem, and on
the fortieth day from his birth
they presented him in the temple
before the Lord, making the proper
offerings for him, according
to the requirement of the law of
Moses: namely, that every male
which opens the womb shall be
called holy unto God.

6  At that time old Simeon saw
him shining as a pillar of light,
when St. Mary the Virgin, his
mother, carried him in her arms,
and was filled with the greatest
pleasure at the sight.

7  And the angels stood around
him, adoring him, as a king's
guards stand around him.

8  Then Simeon going near to
St. Mary, and stretching forth his
hands towards her, said to the
Lord Christ, Now, O My Lord,
thy servant shall depart in peace,
according to thy word;

9  For mine eyes have seen thy
mercy, which thou hast prepared
for the salvation of all nations;
a light to all people, and the glory
of thy people Israel.

10  Hannah the prophetess was
also present, and drawing near,
she gave praises to God, and
celebrated the happiness of Mary.



CHAPTER III.

     1 The wise men visit Christ. Mary gives them
     one of his swaddling clothes.
     3 An angel appears to them in the form of a star.
     4 They return and make a fire, and worship the
     swaddling cloth, and put it in the fire where it
     remains unconsumed.

AND it came to pass, when the
Lord Jesus was born at Bethlehem,
a city of Judaea, in the time of Herod
the King;--the wise  men came from the
East to Jerusalem, according to the
prophecy of Zoradascht,[Zoroaster]
and brought with them offerings:
namely, gold, frankincense, and myrrh,
and worshipped him, and offered to him
their gifts.

2  Then the Lady Mary took one
of his swaddling clothes in which
the infant was wrapped, and gave
it to them instead of a blessing,
which they received from her as a
most noble present.

3  And at the same time there
appeared to them an angel in the
form of that star which had before
been their guide in their journey;
the light of which they followed
till they returned into their own
country.

4  On their return their kings
and princes came to them inquiring,
whom they had seen and done?
What sort of journey and return
they had?  What Company
they had on the road?

5  But they produced the swaddling
cloth which St. Mary had given
them, on account whereof they kept
a feast.

6  And having, according to the
custom of their country, made
a fire, they worshipped it.

7  And casting the swaddling
cloth into it, the fire took it
and kept it.

8  And when the fire was put out,
they took forth the swaddling cloth
unhurt, as much as if the fire had
not touched it.

9  Then they began to kiss it,
and put it upon their heads and
their eyes saying, This is certainly
an undoubted truth, and it is really
surprising that the fire could not
burn it, and consume it.

10  Then they took it, and with
the greatest respect laid it up
among their treasures.



CHAPTER IV.

     1 Herod intends to put Christ to death.
     3 An angel warns Joseph to take the child
     and his mother into Egypt.
     6 Consternation on their arrival.
     13 The idols fall down.
     15 Mary washes Christ's swaddling clothes, hangs them to
     dry on a post, and the son of a priest puts one on his head;
     16 And being possessed of devils they leave him.

NOW Herod perceiving that the
wise men did delay and not return
to him, called together the priest
and wise men, and said, Tell me in
what place the Christ should be born.

2  And when they replied, in
Bethlehem,--a city of Judaea, he
began to contrive in his own mind
the death of the Lord Jesus Christ.

3  But an angel of the Lord
appeared to Joseph in his sleep,
and said, Arise, take the child and
his mother, and go into Egypt as soon
as the cock crows. So he arose,
and went.

4  And as he was considering
with himself about his journey,
the morning came upon him.

5  In the length of the journey
the girts of the saddle broke.

6  And now he drew near to a great
city, in which there was an idol,
to which the priests of the other
idols and gods of Egypt brought
their offerings and vows.

7  And there was by this idol a
priest ministering to it, who, as
often as Satan spoke out of that
idol, related the things he said to
the inhabitants of Egypt, and those
countries.

8  This priest had a son three
years old, who was possessed with
a great multitude of devils, who
uttered many strange things and
when the devils seized him, walked
about naked with his clothes torn,
throwing stones at those whom
he saw.

9  Near to that idol was the inn
of the city, into which when Joseph
and St. Mary were come, and had
turned into that inn, all the
inhabitants of the city were
astonished.

10  And all the magistrates and
priests of the idols assembled
before that idol, and made inquiry
there, saying, What means all this
consternation, and dread, which
has fallen upon all our country?

11  The idol answered them,
The unknown God is come thither,
who is truly God; nor is there any
one besides him, who is worthy of
divine worship for he is truly the
Son of God.

12  At the fame of him this
country trembled, and at his
coming it is under the present
commotion and consternation, and
we ourselves are afrighted by the
greatness of his power.

13  And at the same instant this
idol fell down, and at his fall all
the inhabitants of Egypt, besides
others ran together.

14  But the son of the priest,
when his usual disorder came upon
him going into the inn, found
there Joseph and St. Mary, whom
all the rest had left behind and
forsook.

15  And when the Lady St. Mary
had washed the swaddling clothes
of the Lord Christ, and hanged
them out to dry upon a post, the
boy possessed with the devil took
down one of them, and put it upon
his head.

16  And presently the devils
began to come out of his mouth,
and fly away in the shape of crows
and serpents.

17  From that time the boy was
healed by the power of the Lord
Christ and he began to sing
praises, and give thanks to the
Lord who had healed him.

18  When his father saw him
restored to his former state of
health, he said, My son, what has
happened to thee, and by what
means wert thou cured?

19  The son answered, When the
devils seized me, I went into the
inn, and there found a very handsome
woman with a boy, whose swaddling
clothes she had just before washed,
and hanged out upon a post.

20  One of these I took, and put
it upon my head, and immediately
the devils left me, and fled away.

21  At this the father exceedingly
rejoiced, and said, My son,
perhaps this boy is the son of the
living God, who made the heavens
and the earth.

22  For as soon as he came
amongst us, the idol was broken,
and all the gods fell down, and
were destroyed by a greater power.

23  Then was fulfilled the prophecy
which saith, Out of Egypt I have
called my son.



CHAPTER V.

     1 Joseph and Mary leave Egypt.
     3 Go to the Haunts of robbers,
     4 Who hearing a mighty noise,
     as of a great army flee away.

NOW Joseph and Mary when
they heard that the idol was
fallen down and destroyed, were
seized with fear and, trembling,
and said, When we Were in the
land of Israel, Herod, intending
to kill Jesus, slew for that purpose
all the infants at Bethlehem, and
that neighbourhood.

2  And there is no doubt but
the Egyptians if they come to
hear that this idol is broken and
fallen down, will burn us with fire.

3  They went therefore hence to
the secret places of robbers, who
robbed travellers as they pass by,
of their carriages and their clothes
and carried them away bound.

4  These thieves upon their
coming heard a great noise such
as the noise of a king with a great
army, and many horse and the
trumpets sounding at his departure
from his own city, at which they
were so affrighted, as to leave
all their booty behind them and
fly away in haste.

5  Upon this the prisoners arose,
and loosed each other's bonds,
and taking each man his bags,
they went way, and saw Joseph
and Mary coming towards them,
and inquired, Where is that king,
the noise of whose approach the
robbers heard, and left us,
so that we are now come off safe?

6  Joseph answered, He will come
after us.



CHAPTER VI.

     1 Mary looks on a woman in whom Satan had taken
     up his abode, and she becomes dispossesed.
     5 Christ kissed by a bride made dumb by sorcerers,
     cures her.
     11 Miraculously cures a gentlewoman in whom Satan
     had taken up his abode.
     16 A leprous girl cured by the water in which he was
     washed, and becomes the servant of Joseph and Mary.
     20 The leprous son of a prince's wife cured in like manner.
     37 Has mother offers large gifts to Mary, and dismisses her.


THEN they went into another
city where there was a woman
possessed with a devil, and in
whom Satan, that cursed rebel,
had taken up his abode.

2  One night, when she went to
fetch water, she could neither
endure her clothes on, nor to be
in any house; but as often as they
tied her with chains or cords, she
brake them, and went out into desert
places, and sometimes standing
where roads crossed, and in
church yards, would throw stones
at men.

3  When St. Mary saw this
woman, she pitied her; where
upon Satan presently left her, and
fled away in the form of a young
man, saying, Wo to me, because
of thee, Mary, and thy son.

4  So the woman was delivered
from her torment; but considering
herself naked, she blushed,
and avoided seeing any man and
having put on her clothes, went
home, and gave an account of her
case to her father and relations
who, as they were the best of the
city, entertained St. Mary and
Joseph with the greatest respect.

5  The next morning having
received a sufficient supply of
provisions for the road, they went
from them, and about the evening of
the day arrived at another town,
where a marriage was then about
to be solemnized; but by the arts
of Satan and the practices of a
sorcerers, the bride was become
so dumb, that she could not so
much as open her mouth.

6  But when this dumb bride
saw the Lady St. Mary entering
into the town, and carrying
Lord Christ in her arms, she
stretched out her hands to the
Lord Christ, and-took him in her
arms, and closely hugging him,
very often kissed him, continually
moving him and, pressing him to
her body.

7  Straightway the string of her
tongue was loosed, and her ears
were opened, and she began to
sing praises unto God, who had
restored her.

8  So there was great joy among
the inhabitants of the town that
night, who thought that God and
his angels were come down among
them.

9  In this place they abode
three days, meeting with the greatest
respect and most splendid entertainment.

10  And being then furnished by
the people with provisions for the
road, they departed and went to
another city, in which they were
inclined to lodge, because it was a
famous place.

11  There was in this city a
gentlewoman, who, as she went down
one day to the river to bathe, behold
cursed Satan leaped upon her in the
form of a serpent.

12  And folded himself about her
belly, and every night lay upon
her.

13  This woman seeing the Lady
St. Mary, and the Lord Christ the
infant in her bosom, asked the
Lady St. Mary, that she would
give her the child to kiss, and
carry in her arms.

14  When she had consented,
and as soon as the woman had
moved the child, Satan left her,
and fled away, nor did the woman
ever afterwards see him.

15  Hereupon all the neighbors
praised the Supreme God, and the
woman reward them with ample,
beneficence.

16  On the morrow, the same
woman brought perfumed water to
wash the Lord Jesus; and when
she had washed him, she preserved
the water.

17  And there was a girl there,
whose body was white with a
leprosy, who being sprinkled with
this water, and washed, was
instantly cleansed from her leprosy.

18  The people therefore said
Without doubt Joseph and Mary,
and that boy are Gods, for they do
not look like mortals.

19  And when they were making
ready to go away, the girl, who
had been troubled with the leprosy,
came and desired they would
permit her to go along with them;
so they consented and the girl went
with them till they came to a city
in which was the palace of a great
king, and whose house was not far
from the inn.

20  Here they staid, and when
the girl went one day to the
prince's wife, and found her in a
sorrowful and mournful condition,
she asked her the reason of her
tears.

21  She replied, wonder not at
my groans, for I am under a great
misfortune, of which I dare not
tell any one.

22  But, says the, girl, if you
will entrust me with your private
grievance, perhaps I may find you
a remedy for it.

23  Thou, therefore, says the
prince's wife, shall keep the
secret, and not discover it to
any one alive.

24  I have been married to this
prince, who  rules as king over
large dominions, and lived long
with him before he had any child
by me.

25  At length I conceived by
him, but alas! I brought forth a
leprous son; which, when he saw
him would not own to be his, but
said to me,

26  Either do thou kill him, or
send him to some nurse in such a
place, that he may be never heard
of; and now take care of yourself;
I will never see you more.

27  So here I pine, lamenting
my wretched and miserable
circumstances. Alas, my son! alas,
my husband; Have I disclosed it
to you?

28  The girl replied I have found
a remedy for your disease, which
I promise you, for I also was
leprous, but God hath cleansed
me, even he who is called Jesus
the son of the Lady Mary.

29  The woman inquiring where
that God was, whom she spake
of; the girl answered, He lodges
with you here, in the same house.

30  But how can this be? says
she; where is he? Behold, replied
the girl, Joseph and Mary; and
the infant who is, with them is
called Jesus; and it is he who
delivered me from my disease and
torment.

31  But by what means, says she,
were you cleansed from your leprosy?
Will not you tell me that?

32  Why not? says the girl; I
took the water with which his
body had been washed, and poured
it upon me, and my leprosy
vanished.

33  The prince's wife then arose
and entertained them, providing a
great feast for Joseph among a
large company of men.

34  And the next day took
perfumed water to wash the Lord
Jesus, and afterwards  poured the
same water upon her son, whom
she had brought with her, and her
son was instantly cleansed from
his leprosy,

35  Then she sang thanks and
unto God, and said, Blessed
is the mother that bare thee,
O Jesus!

36  Dost thou thus cure men of
the same nature with thyself, with
the water with which thy body is
washed?

37 She then offered very large
gifts to the Lady Mary, and sent
her away with all imaginable
respect.



CHAPTER VII.

     1 A man who could not enjoy his wife, freed from his disorder.
     5 A young man who had been bewitched, and turned into a
     mule miraculously cured by Christ being put on his back,
     28 and is married to the girl who had been cured of leprosy.


THEY came afterwards to another
city, and had a mind to lodge there.


2  Accordingly they went to a man's
house, who was newly married
but by the influence of sorcerers
could not enjoy his wife.

3  But they lodging at his house
that night, the man was freed of
his disorder.

4  And when they were preparing
early in the morning to go forward
on their jouney, the new-married
person hindered them, and
provided a noble entertainment
for them.

5  But going forward on the
morrow, they came to another
city, and saw three women going
from a certain grave with great
weeping.

6  When St. Mary saw them, she
spake to the girl who was their
companion, saying, Go and inquire
of them, what is the matter with
them, and what misfortune has
befallen them?

7  When the girl asked them,
they made her no answer, but
asked her again, Who are ye? and
where are you going? For the day
is far spent, and night is at hand.

8  We are travellers, saith the
girl, and we are seeking for an inn
to lodge at.

9  They replied, Go along with
us, and lodge with us.

10  They then followed them,
and were introduced into a new
house, well furnished with all
sorts of furniture.

11  Now it was winter-time, and
the girl went into the parlour
where these women were, and
found them weeping and lamenting
as before.

12  By them stood a mule, covered
over with silk, and an ebony collar
hanging down from his neck, whom
they kissed and were feeding.

13  But when the girl said, How
handsome, ladies, that mule is!
they replied with tears, and said,
This mule, which you see, was our
brother, born of this same mother
as we;

14  For when our father died,
and left us a very large estate, and
we had only this brother, and we
endeavoured to procure him a suitable
match, and thought he should
be married as other men, some
giddy and jealous women bewitched
him without our knowledge.

15  And we one night, a little before
day, while the doors of the house
were all shut fast, saw this our
brother was changed into a mule,
such as you now see him to be:

16  And we in the melancholy
condition in which you see us,
having no father to comfort us,
have applied to all the wise men,
magicians, and diviners in the
world, but they have been of no
service to us.

17  As often therefore as we find
ourselves oppressed with grief, we
rise and go with this our mother
to our father's tomb, where, when
we have cried sufficiently, we
return home.

18  When the girl had heard this
she said, Take courage, and cease
your fears, for you have a remedy
for your afflictions near at hand
even amoung you and in the midst
of your house.

19  For I was also leprous; but
when I saw this woman, and this
little infant with her, whose name
is Jesus, I sprinkled my body with
the water with which his mother
had washed him and I was
presently made well.

20  And I am certain that he is
also capable of relieving you under
your distress.  Wherefore arise,
go to my mistress Mary, and when
you have brought her into your
own parlour, disclose to her the
secret, at the same time earnestly
beseeching her to compassionate
your case.

21  As soon as the women had
heard the girl's discourse, they
hastened away to the Lady St.
Mary, introduced themselves to
her, and sitting down before her,
they wept.

22  And said, O our Lady St.
Mary, pity your handmaids, for
we have no head of our family, no
one elder than us; no father or
brother to go in or out before us.

23  But this mule, which you
see, was our brother, which some
women by witchcraft have brought
into this condition which you see:
we therefore entreat you to
compassionate us.

24  Hereupon St. Mary was
grieved at their case, and taking
the Lord Jesus, put him upon the
back of the mule.

25  And said to her son, O Jesus
Christ, restore (or heal) according
to thy extraordinary power this
mule, and grant him to have again
the shape of a man and a rational
creature, as he had formerly.

26  This was scarce said by the
Lady St. Mary, but the mule
immediately passed into a human
form, and 