 them, as you may say. Wal, I told her my werryments and
she sympathized real hearty, and said I didn't ought to stan' it,
but have things to suit me, and enjoy myself, as other folks did. So
when she put it into my head I thought it amazin' good advice, and
jest went and done as she told me.

"Lisha was the kindest man you ever see, so when I up and said I
warn't goin' to drudge round no more, but must hev a girl, he got
one, and goodness knows what a trial she was. After she came I got
dreadful slack, and left the house and the children to Hen'retta,
and went pleasurin' frequent all in my best. I always was a dressy
woman in them days, and Lisha give me his earnin's real lavish,
bless his heart! and I went and spent 'em on my sinful gowns and
bunnets."

Here Mrs. Wilkins stopped to give a remorseful groan and stroke her
faded dress, as if she found great comfort in its dinginess.

"It ain't no use tellin' all I done, but I had full swing, and at
fust I thought luck was in my dish sure. But it warn't, seein' I
didn't deserve it, and I had to take my mess of trouble, which was
needful and nourishin,' ef I'd had the grace to see it so.

"Lisha got into debt, and no wonder, with me a wastin' of his
substance; Hen'retta went off suddin', with whatever she could lay
her hands on, and everything was at sixes and sevens. Lisha's
patience give out at last, for I was dreadful fractious, knowin' it
was all my fault. The children seemed to git out of sorts, too, and
acted like time in the primer, with croup and pins, and
whoopin'-cough and temper. I declare I used to think the pots and
kettles biled over to spite each other and me too in them days.

"All this was nuts to Mis Bascum, and she kep' advisin' and
encouragin' of me, and I didn't see through her a mite, or guess
that settin' folks by the ears was as relishin' to her as bitters is
to some. Merciful, suz! what a piece a work we did make betwixt us!
I scolded and moped 'cause I couldn't have my way; Lisha swore and
threatened to take to drinkin' ef I didn't make home more
comfortable; the children run wild, and the house was gittin' too
hot to hold us, when we was brought up with a round turn, and I see
the redicklousness of my doin's in time.

"One day Lisha come home tired and cross, for bills was pressin',
work slack, and folks talkin' about us as ef they 'd nothin' else to
do. I was dishin' up dinner, feelin' as nervous as a witch, for a
whole batch of bread had burnt to a cinder while I was trimmin' a
new bunnet, Wash had scart me most to death swallerin' a cent, and
the steak had been on the floor more'n once, owin' to my havin'
babies, dogs, cats, or hens under my feet the whole blessed time.

"Lisha looked as black as thunder, throwed his hat into a corner,
and came along to the sink where I was skinnin' pertaters. As he
washed his hands, I asked what the matter was; but he only muttered
and slopped, and I couldn't git nothin' out of him, for he ain't
talkative at the best of times as you see, and when he's werried
corkscrews wouldn't draw a word from him.

"Bein' riled myself didn't mend matters, and so we fell to hectorin'
one another right smart. He said somethin' that dreened my last drop
of patience; I give a sharp answer, and fust thing I knew he up with
his hand and slapped me. It warn't a hard blow by no means, only a
kind of a wet spat side of the head; but I thought I should have
flew, and was as mad as ef I'd been knocked down. You never see a
man look so 'shamed as Lisha did, and ef I'd been wise I should have
made up the quarrel then. But I was a fool. I jest flung fork, dish,
pertaters and all into the pot, and says, as ferce as you please:

"'Lisha Wilkins, when you can treat me decent you may come and fetch
me back; you won't see me till then, and so I tell you.'

"Then I made a bee-line for Mis Bascum's; told her the whole story,
had a good cry, and was all ready to go home in half an hour, but
Lisha didn't come.

"Wal, that night passed, and what a long one it was to be sure! and
me without a wink of sleep, thinkin' of Wash and the cent, my
emptins and the baby. Next day come, but no Lisha, no message, no
nuthin', and I began to think I'd got my match though I had a sight
of grit in them days. I sewed, and Mis Bascum she clacked; but I
didn't say much, and jest worked like sixty to pay for my keep, for
I warn't goin' to be beholden to her for nothin'.

"The day dragged on terrible slow, and at last I begged her to go
and git me a clean dress, for I'd come off jest as I was, and folks
kep' droppin' in, for the story was all round, thanks to Mis
Bascum's long tongue.

"Wal, she went, and ef you'll believe me Lisha wouldn't let her in!
He handed my best things out a winder and told her to tell me they
were gittin' along fust rate with Florindy Walch to do the work. He
hoped I'd have a good time, and not expect him for a consider'ble
spell, for he liked a quiet house, and now he'd got it.

"When I heard that, I knew he must be provoked the wust kind, for he
ain't a hash man by nater. I could have crep' in at the winder ef he
wouldn't open the door, I was so took down by that message. But Mis
Bascum wouldn't hear of it, and kep' stirrin' of me up till I was
ashamed to eat 'umble pie fust; so I waited to see how soon he'd
come round. But he had the best on't you see, for he'd got the
babies and lost a cross wife, while I'd lost every thing but Mis
Bascum, who grew hatefuler to me every hour, for I begun to mistrust
she was a mischief-maker,--widders most always is,--seein' how she
pampered up my pride and 'peared to like the quarrel.

"I thought I should have died more'n once, for sure as you live it
went on three mortal days, and of all miser'ble creeters I was the
miser'blest. Then I see how wicked and ungrateful I'd been; how I'd
shirked my bounden duty and scorned my best blessins. There warn't a
hard job that ever I'd hated but what grew easy when I remembered
who it was done for; there warn't a trouble or a care that I
wouldn't have welcomed hearty, nor one hour of them dear fractious
babies that didn't seem precious when I'd gone and left 'em. I'd got
time to rest enough now, and might go pleasuring all day long; but I
couldn't do it, and would have given a dozin bunnets trimmed to kill
ef I could only have been back moilin' in my old kitchen with the
children hangin' round me and Lisha a comin' in cheerful from his
work as he used to 'fore I spoilt his home for him. How sing'lar it
is folks never do know when they are wal off!"

"I know it now," said Christie, rocking lazily to and fro, with a
face almost as tranquil as little Vic's, lying half asleep in her
lap.

"Glad to hear it, my dear. As I was goin' on to say, when Saturday
come, a tremenjus storm set in, and it rained guns all day. I never
shall forgit it, for I was hankerin' after baby, and dreadful
worried about the others, all bein' croupy, and Florindy with no
more idee of nussin' than a baa lamb. The rain come down like a
reg'lar deluge, but I didn't seem to have no ark to run to. As night
come on things got wuss and wuss, for the wind blowed the roof off
Mis Bascum's barn and stove in the butt'ry window; the brook riz and
went ragin' every which way, and you never did see such a piece of
work.

"My heart was most broke by that time, and I knew I should give in
'fore Monday. But I set and sewed and listened to the tinkle tankle
of the drops in the pans set round to ketch 'em, for the house
leaked like a sieve. Mis Bascurn was down suller putterin' about,
for every kag and sarce jar was afloat. Moses, her brother, was
lookin' after his stock and tryin' to stop the damage. All of a
sudden he bust in lookin' kinder wild, and settin' down the lantern,
he sez, sez he: 'You're ruthern an unfortinate woman to-night, Mis
Wilkins.' 'How so?' sez I, as ef nuthin' was the matter already.
"'Why,' sez he, 'the spilins have give way up in the rayvine, and
the brook 's come down like a river, upsot your lean-to, washed the
mellion patch slap into the road, and while your husband was tryin'
to git the pig out of the pen, the water took a turn and swep him
away.'

"'Drownded?' sez I, with only breath enough for that one word.
'Shouldn't wonder,' sez Moses, 'nothin' ever did come up alive after
goin' over them falls.'

"It come over me like a streak of lightenin'; every thin' kinder
slewed round, and I dropped in the first faint I ever had in my
life. Next I knew Lisha was holdin' of me and cryin' fit to kill
himself. I thought I was dreamin', and only had wits enough to give
a sort of permiscuous grab at him and call out:

"'Oh, Lisha! ain't you drownded?' He give a gret start at that,
swallered down his sobbin', and sez as lovin' as ever a man did in
this world:

"'Bless your dear heart, Cynthy, it warn't me it was the pig;' and
then fell to kissin' of me, till betwixt laughin' and cryin' I was
most choked. Deary me, it all comes back so livin' real it kinder
takes my breath away."

And well it might, for the good soul entered so heartily into her
story that she unconsciously embellished it with dramatic
illustrations. At the slapping episode she flung an invisible "fork,
dish, and pertaters" into an imaginary kettle, and glared; when the
catastrophe arrived, she fell back upon her chair to express
fainting; gave Christie's arm the "permiscuous grab" at the proper
moment, and uttered the repentant Lisha's explanation with an
incoherent pathos that forbid a laugh at the sudden introduction of
the porcine martyr.

"What did you do then?" asked Christie in a most flattering state of
interest.

"Oh, law! I went right home and hugged them children for a couple of
hours stiddy," answered Mrs; Wilkins, as if but one conclusion was
possible.

"Did all your troubles go down with the pig?" asked Christie,
presently.

"Massy, no, we're all poor, feeble worms, and the best meanin' of us
fails too often," sighed Mrs. Wilkins, as she tenderly adjusted the
sleepy head of the young worm in her lap. "After that scrape I done
my best; Lisha was as meek as a whole flock of sheep, and we give
Mis Bascum a wide berth. Things went lovely for ever so long, and
though, after a spell, we had our ups and downs, as is but natural
to human creeters, we never come to such a pass agin. Both on us
tried real hard; whenever I felt my temper risin' or discontent
comin' on I remembered them days and kep' a taut rein; and as for
Lisha he never said a raspin' word, or got sulky, but what he'd bust
out laughin' after it and say: 'Bless you, Cynthy, it warn't me, it
was the pig.'"

Mrs. Wilkins' hearty laugh fired a long train of lesser ones, for
the children recognized a household word. Christie enjoyed the joke,
and even the tea-kettle boiled over as if carried away by the fun.

"Tell some more, please," said Christie, when the merriment
subsided, for she felt her spirits rising.

"There's nothin' more to tell, except one thing that prevented my
ever forgittin' the lesson I got then. My little Almiry took cold
that week and pined away rapid. She'd always been so ailin' I never
expected to raise her, and more 'n once in them sinful tempers of
mine I'd thought it would be a mercy ef she was took out of her
pain. But when I laid away that patient, sufferin' little creeter I
found she was the dearest of 'em all. I most broke my heart to hev
her back, and never, never forgive myself for leavin' her that
time." With trembling lips and full eyes Mrs. Wilkins stopped to
wipe her features generally on Andrew Jackson's pinafore, and heave
a remorseful sigh.

"And this is how you came to be the cheerful, contented woman you
are?" said Christie, hoping to divert the mother's mind from that
too tender memory.

"Yes," she answered, thoughtfully, "I told you Lisha was a smart
man; he give me a good lesson, and it set me to thinkin' serious.
'Pears to me trouble is a kind of mellerin' process, and ef you take
it kindly it doos you good, and you learn to be glad of it. I'm sure
Lisha and me is twice as fond of one another, twice as willin' to
work, and twice as patient with our trials sense dear little Almiry
died, and times was hard. I ain't what I ought to be, not by a long
chalk, but I try to live up to my light, do my duty cheerful, love
my neighbors, and fetch up my family in the fear of God. Ef I do
this the best way I know how, I'm sure I'll get my rest some day,
and the good Lord won't forgit Cynthy Wilkins. He ain't so fur, for
I keep my health wonderfle, Lisha is kind and stiddy, the children
flourishin', and I'm a happy woman though I be a humly one."

There she was mistaken, for as her eye roved round the narrow room
from the old hat on the wall to the curly heads bobbing here and
there, contentment, piety, and mother-love made her plain face
beautiful.

"That story has done me ever so much good, and I shall not forget
it. Now, good-night, for I must be up early to-morrow, and I don't
want to drive Mr. Wilkins away entirely," said Christie, after she
had helped put the little folk to bed, during which process she had
heard her host creaking about the kitchen as if afraid to enter the
sitting-room.

She laughed as she spoke, and ran up stairs, wondering if she could
be the same forlorn creature who had crept so wearily up only the
night before.

It was a very humble little sermon that Mrs. Wilkins had preached to
her, but she took it to heart and profited by it; for she was a
pupil in the great charity school where the best teachers are often
unknown, unhonored here, but who surely will receive commendation
and reward from the head master when their long vacation comes.






CHAPTER IX.

MRS. WILKINS'S MINISTER.





MR. POWER.

NEXT day Christie braved the lion in his den, otherwise the flinty
Flint, in her second-class boarding-house, and found that alarm and
remorse had produced a softening effect upon her. She was
unfeignedly glad to see her lost lodger safe, and finding that the
new friends were likely to put her in the way of paying her debts,
this much harassed matron permitted her to pack up her possessions,
leaving one trunk as a sort of hostage. Then, with promises to
redeem it as soon as possible, Christie said good-bye to the little
room where she had hoped and suffered, lived and labored so long,
and went joyfully back to the humble home she had found with the
good laundress.

All the following week Christie "chored round," as Mrs. Wilkins
called the miscellaneous light work she let her do. Much washing,
combing, and clean pinaforing of children fell to her share, and she
enjoyed it amazingly; then, when the elder ones were packed off to
school she lent a hand to any of the numberless tasks housewives
find to do from morning till night. In the afternoon, when other
work was done, and little Vic asleep or happy with her playthings,
Christie clapped laces, sprinkled muslins, and picked out edgings at
the great table where Mrs. Wilkins stood ironing, fluting, and
crimping till the kitchen bristled all over with immaculate frills
and flounces.

It was pretty delicate work, and Christie liked it, for Mrs. Wilkins
was an adept at her trade and took as much pride and pleasure in it
as any French blanchis-seuse tripping through the streets of Paris
with a tree full of coquettish caps, capes, and petticoats borne
before her by a half invisible boy.

Being women, of course they talked as industriously as they worked;
fingers flew and tongues clacked with equal profit and pleasure,
and, by Saturday, Christie had made up her mind that Mrs. Wilkins
was the most sensible woman she ever knew. Her grammar was an
outrage upon the memory of Lindley Murray, but the goodness of her
heart would have done honor to any saint in the calendar. She was
very plain, and her manners were by no means elegant, but good
temper made that homely face most lovable, and natural refinement of
soul made mere external polish of small account. Her shrewd ideas
and odd sayings amused Christie very much, while her good sense and
bright way of looking at things did the younger woman a world of
good.

Mr. Wilkins devoted himself to the making of shoes and the
consumption of food, with the silent regularity of a placid animal.
His one dissipation was tobacco, and in a fragrant cloud of smoke he
lived and moved and had his being so entirely that he might have
been described as a pipe with a man somewhere behind it. Christie
once laughingly spoke of this habit and declared she would try it
herself if she thought it would make her as quiet and
undemonstrative as Mr. Wilkins, who, to tell the truth, made no more
impression on her than a fly.

"I don't approve on't, but he might do wuss. We all have to have our
comfort somehow, so I let Lisha smoke as much as he likes, and he
lets me gab, so it's about fair, I reckon," answered Mrs. Wilkins,
from the suds.

She laughed as she spoke, but something in her face made Christie
suspect that at some period of his life Lisha had done "wuss;" and
subsequent observations confirmed this suspicion and another one
also,--that his good wife had saved him, and was gently easing him
back to self-control and self-respect. But, as old Fuller quaintly
says, "She so gently folded up his faults in silence that few
guessed them," and loyally paid him that respect which she desired
others to bestow. It was always "Lisha and me," "I'll ask my
husband" or "Lisha 'll know; he don't say much, but he's a dreadful
smart man," and she kept up the fiction so dear to her wifely soul
by endowing him with her own virtues, and giving him the credit of
her own intelligence.

Christie loved her all the better for this devotion, and for her
sake treated Mr. Wilkins as if he possessed the strength of Samson
and the wisdom of Solomon. He received her respect as if it was his
due, and now and then graciously accorded her a few words beyond the
usual scanty allowance of morning and evening greetings. At his shop
all day, she only saw him at meals and sometimes of an evening, for
Mrs. Wilkins tried to keep him at home safe from temptation, and
Christie helped her by reading, talking, and frolicking with the
children, so that he might find home attractive. He loved his babies
and would even relinquish his precious pipe for a time to ride the
little chaps on his foot, or amuse Vic with shadow rabbit's on the
wall.

At such times the entire content in Mrs. Wilkins's face made tobacco
fumes endurable, and the burden of a dull man's presence less
oppressive to Christie, who loved to pay her debts in something
besides money.

As they sat together finishing off some delicate laces that Saturday
afternoon, Mrs. Wilkins said, "Ef it's fair to-morrow I want you to
go to my meetin' and hear my minister. It'll do you good."

"Who is he?"

"Mr. Power."

Christie looked rather startled, for she had heard of Thomas Power
as a rampant radical and infidel of the deepest dye, and been warned
never to visit that den of iniquity called his free church.

"Why, Mrs. Wilkins, you don't mean it!" she said, leaving her lace
to dry at the most critical stage.

"Yee, I do!" answered Mrs. Wilkins, setting down her flat-iron with
emphasis, and evidently preparing to fight valiantly for her
minister, as most women will.

"I beg your pardon; I was a little surprised, for I'd heard all
sorts of things about him," Christie hastened to say.

"Did you ever hear him, or read any of his writins?" demanded Mrs.
Wilkins, with a calmer air.

"Never."

"Then don't judge. You go hear and see that blessed man, and ef you
don't say he's the shadder of a great rock in a desert land, I'll
give up," cried the good woman, waxing poetical in her warmth.

"I will to please you, if nothing else. I did go once just because I
was told not to; but he did not preach that day and every thing was
so peculiar, I didn't know whether to like it or be shocked."

"It is kind of sing'lar at fust, I'm free to confess, and not as
churchy as some folks like. But there ain't no place but that big
enough to hold the crowds that want to go, for the more he's abused
the more folks flock to see him. They git their money's wuth I do
believe, for though there ain't no pulpits and pews, there's a sight
of brotherly love round in them seats, and pious practice, as well
as powerful preaching, in that shabby desk. He don't need no
commandments painted up behind him to read on Sunday, for he keeps
'em in his heart and life all the week as honest as man can."

There Mrs. Wilkins paused, flushed and breathless with her defence,
and Christie said, candidly: "I did like the freedom and good-will
there, for people sat where they liked, and no one frowned over shut
pew-doors, at me a stranger. An old black woman sat next me, and
said 'Amen' when she liked what she heard, and a very shabby young
man was on the other, listening as if his soul was as hungry as his
body. People read books, laughed and cried, clapped when pleased,
and hissed when angry; that I did not like."

"No more does Mr. Power; he don't mind the cryin' and the smilin' as
it's nat'ral, but noise and disrespect of no kind ain't pleasin' to
him. His own folks behave becomin', but strangers go and act as they
like, thinkin' that there ain't no bounds to the word free. Then we
are picked at for their doin's, and Mr. Power has to carry other
folkses' sins on his shoulders. But, dear suz, it ain't much matter
after all, ef the souls is well-meanin'. Children always make a
noise a strivin' after what they want most, and I shouldn't wonder
ef the Lord forgive all our short-comin's of that sort, sense we are
hankerin' and reachin' for the truth."

"I wish I had heard Mr. Power that day, for I was striving after
peace with all my heart, and he might have given it to me," said
Christie, interested and impressed with what she heard.

"Wal, no, dear, I guess not. Peace ain't give to no one all of a
suddin, it gen'lly comes through much tribulation, and the sort that
comes hardest is best wuth havin'. Mr. Power would a' ploughed and
harrered you, so to speak, and sowed good seed liberal; then ef you
warn't barren ground things would have throve, and the Lord give you
a harvest accordin' to your labor. Who did you hear?" asked Mrs.
Wilkins, pausing to starch and clap vigorously.

"A very young man who seemed to be airing his ideas and beliefs in
the frankest manner. He belabored everybody and every thing, upset
church and state, called names, arranged heaven and earth to suit
himself, and evidently meant every word he said. Much of it would
have been ridiculous if the boy had not been so thoroughly in
earnest; sincerity always commands respect, and though people
smiled, they liked his courage, and seemed to think he would make a
man when his spiritual wild oats were sown."

"I ain't a doubt on't. We often have such, and they ain't all empty
talk, nuther; some of 'em are surprisingly bright, and all mean so
well I don't never reluct to hear 'em. They must blow off their
steam somewheres, else they'd bust with the big idees a swellin' in
'em; Mr. Power knows it and gives 'em the chance they can't find
nowheres else. 'Pears to me," added Mrs. Wilkins, ironing rapidly as
she spoke, "that folks is very like clothes, and a sight has to be
done to keep 'em clean and whole. All on us has to lend a hand in
this dreadful mixed-up wash, and each do our part, same as you and
me is now. There's scrubbin' and bilin', wrenchin' and bluein',
dryin' and foldin', ironin' and polishin', before any of us is fit
for wear a Sunday mornin'."

"What part does Mr. Power do?" asked Christie, much amused at this
peculiarly appropriate simile.

"The scrubbin' and the bilin'; that's always the hardest and the
hottest part. He starts the dirt and gits the stains out, and leaves
'em ready for other folks to finish off. It ain't such pleasant work
as hangin' out, or such pretty work as doin' up, but some one's got
to do it, and them that's strongest does it best, though they don't
git half so much credit as them as polishes and crimps. That's showy
work, but it wouldn't be no use ef the things warn't well washed
fust," and Mrs. Wilkins thoughtfully surveyed the snowy muslin cap,
with its border fluted like the petals of a prim white daisy, that
hung on her hand.

"I'd like to be a washerwoman of that sort; but as I'm not one of
the strong, I'll be a laundress, and try to make purity as
attractive as you do," said Christie, soberly.

"Ah, my dear, it's warm and wearin' work I do assure you, and hard
to give satisfaction, try as you may. Crowns of glory ain't wore in
this world, but it's my 'pinion that them that does the hard jobs
here will stand a good chance of havin' extra bright ones when they
git through."

"I know you will," said Christie, warmly.

"Land alive, child! I warn't thinking of Cynthy Wilkins, but Mr.
Power. I'll be satisfied ef I can set low down somewheres and see
him git the meddle. He won't in this world, but I know there's
rewards savin' up for him byme-by."

"I'll go to-morrow if it pours!" said Christie, with decision.

"Do, and I'll lend you my bunnit," cried Mrs. Wilkins, passing, with
comical rapidity, from crowns of glory to her own cherished
head-gear.

"Thank you, but I can't wear blue, I look as yellow as a dandelion
in it. Mrs. Flint let me have my best things though I offered to
leave them, so I shall be respectable and by-and-by blossom out."

On the morrow Christie went early, got a good seat, and for half an
hour watched the gathering of the motley congregation that filled
the great hall. Some came in timidly, as if doubtful of their
welcome; some noisily, as if, as Mrs. Wilkins said, they had not
learned the wide difference between liberty and license; many as if
eager and curious; and a large number with the look of children
gathering round a family table ready to be fed, and sure that
wholesome food would be bountifully provided for them.

Christie was struck by the large proportion of young people in the
place, of all classes, both sexes, and strongly contrasting faces.
Delicate girls looking with the sweet wistfulness of maidenly hearts
for something strong to lean upon and love; sad-eyed women turning
to heaven for the consolations or the satisfactions earth could not
give them; anxious mothers perplexed with many cares, trying to find
light and strength; young men with ardent faces, restless, aspiring,
and impetuous, longing to do and dare; tired-looking students, with
perplexed wrinkles on their foreheads, evidently come to see if this
man had discovered the great secrets they were delving after; and
soul-sick people trying this new, and perhaps dangerous medicine,
when others failed to cure. Many earnest, thoughtful men and women
were there, some on the anxious seat, and some already at peace,
having found the clew that leads safely through the labyrinth of
life. Here and there a white head, a placid old face, or one of
those fine countenances that tell, unconsciously, the beautiful
story of a victorious soul.

Some read, some talked, some had flowers in their hands, and all sat
at ease, rich and poor, black and white, young and old, waiting for
the coming of the man who had power to attract and hold so many of
his kind. Christie was so intent on watching those about her that
she did not see him enter, and only knew it by the silence which
began just in front of her, and seemed to flow backward like a wave,
leaving a sea of expectant faces turning to one point. That point
was a gray head, just visible above the little desk which stood in
the middle of a great platform. A vase of lovely flowers was on the
little shelf at one side, a great Bible reposed on the other, and a
manuscript lay on the red slope between.

In a moment Christie forgot every thing else, and waited with a
curious anxiety to see what manner of man this was. Presently he got
up with an open book in his hand, saying, in a strong, cheerful
voice: "Let us sing," and having read a hymn as if he had composed
it, he sat down again.

Then everybody did sing; not harmoniously, but heartily, led by an
organ, which the voices followed at their own sweet will. At first,
Christie wanted to smile, for some shouted and some hummed, some sat
silent, and others sung sweetly; but before the hymn ended she liked
it, and thought that the natural praise of each individual soul was
perhaps more grateful to the ear of God than masses by great
masters, or psalms warbled tunefully by hired opera singers.

Then Mr. Power rose again, and laying his hands together, with a
peculiarly soft and reverent gesture, lifted up his face and prayed.
Christie had never heard a prayer like that before; so devout, so
comprehensive, and so brief. A quiet talk with God, asking nothing
but more love and duty toward Him and our fellow-men; thanking Him
for many mercies, and confiding all things trustfully to the "dear
father and mother of souls."

The sermon which followed was as peculiar as the prayer, and as
effective. "One of Power's judgment-day sermons," as she heard one
man say to another, when it was over. Christie certainly felt at
first as if kingdoms and thrones were going down, and each man being
sent to his own place. A powerful and popular wrong was arrested,
tried, and sentenced then and there, with a courage and fidelity
that made plain words eloquent, and stern justice beautiful. He did
not take David of old for his text, but the strong, sinful, splendid
Davids of our day, who had not fulfilled the promise of their youth,
and whose seeming success was a delusion and a snare to themselves
and others, sure to be followed by sorrowful abandonment, defeat,
and shame. The ashes of the ancient hypocrites and Pharisees was
left in peace, but those now living were heartily denounced; modern
money-changers scourged out of the temple, and the everlasting truth
set up therein.

As he spoke, not loudly nor vehemently, but with the indescribable
effect of inward force and true inspiration, a curious stir went
through the crowd at times, as a great wind sweeps over a corn
field, lifting the broad leaves to the light and testing the
strength of root and stem. People looked at one another with a
roused expression; eyes kindled, heads nodded involuntary approval,
and an emphatic, "that's so!" dropped from the lips of men who saw
their own vague instincts and silent opinions strongly confirmed and
nobly uttered. Consciences seemed to have been pricked to duty, eyes
cleared to see that their golden idols had feet of clay, and
wavering wills strengthened by the salutary courage and integrity of
one indomitable man. Another hymn, and a benediction that seemed
like a fit grace after meat, and then the crowd poured out; not
yawning, thinking of best clothes, or longing for dinner, but waked
up, full of talk, and eager to do something to redeem the country
and the world.

Christie went rapidly home because she could not help it, and burst
in upon Mrs. Wilkins with a face full of enthusiasm, exclaiming,
while she cast off her bonnet as if her head had outgrown it since
she left:

"It was splendid! I never heard such a sermon before, and I'll never
go to church anywhere else."

"I knew it! ain't it fillin'? don't it give you a kind of spiritnl
h'ist, and make things wuth more somehow?" cried Mrs. Wilkins,
gesticulating with the pepper-pot in a way which did not improve the
steak she was cooking, and caused great anguish to the noses of her
offspring, who were watching the operation.

Quite deaf to the chorus of sneezes which accompanied her words,
Christie answered, brushing back her hair, as if to get a better
out-look at creation generally:

"Oh, yes, indeed! At first it was rather terrible, and yet so true I
wouldn't change a word of it. But I don't wonder he is
misunderstood, belied, and abused. He tells the truth so plainly,
and lets in the light so clearly, that hypocrites and sinners must
fear and hate him. I think he was a little hard and unsparing,
sometimes, though I don't know enough to judge the men and measures
he condemned. I admire him very much, but I should be afraid of him
if I ever saw him nearer."

"No, you wouldn't; not a grain. You hear him preach agin and you'll
find him as gentle as a lamb. Strong folks is apt to be ruther ha'sh
at times; they can't help it no more than this stove can help
scorchin' the vittles when it gits red hot. Dinner's ready, so set
right up and tell me all about it," said Mrs. Wilkins, slapping the
steak on to the platter, and beginning to deal out fried potatoes
all round with absent-minded lavishness.

Christie talked, and the good soul enjoyed that far more than her
dinner, for she meant to ask Mr. Power to help her find the right
sort of home for the stranger whose unfitness for her present place
was every day made more apparent to the mind of her hostess.

"What took you there first?" asked Christie, still wondering at Mrs.
Wilkins's choice of a minister.

"The Lord, my dear," answered the good woman, in a tone of calm
conviction. "I'd heard of him, and I always have a leanin' towards
them that's reviled; so one Sabbath I felt to go, and did. 'That's
the gospel for me,' says I, 'my old church ain't big enough now, and
I ain't goin' to set and nod there any longer,' and I didn't."

"Hadn't you any doubts about it, any fears of going wrong or being
sorry afterwards?" asked Christie, who believed, as many do, that
religion could not be attained without much tribulation of some
kind.

"In some things folks is led; I be frequent, and when them leadin's
corne I don't ask no questions but jest foller, and it always turns
out right."

"I wish I could be led."

"You be, my dear, every day of your life only you don't see it. When
you are doubtful, set still till the call conies, then git up and
walk whichever way it says, and you won't fall. You've had bread and
water long enough, now you want meat and wine a spell; take it, and
when it's time for milk and honey some one will fetch 'em ef you
keep your table ready. The Lord feeds us right; it's we that quarrel
with our vittles."

"I will," said Christie, and began at once to prepare her little
board for the solid food of which she had had a taste that day.

That afternoon Mrs. Wilkins took her turn at church-going, saw Mr.
Power, told Christie's story in her best style, and ended by saying:

"She's true grit, I do assure you, sir. Willin' to work, but she's
seen the hard side of things and got kind of discouraged. Soul and
body both wants tinkerin' up, and I don't know anybody who can do
the job better 'n you can."

"Very well, I'll come and see her," answered Mr. Power, and Mrs.
Wilkins went home well satisfied.

He kept his word, and about the middle of the week came walking in
upon them as they were at work.

"Don't let the irons cool," he said, and sitting down in the kitchen
began to talk as comfortably as if in the best parlor; more so,
perhaps, for best parlors are apt to have a depressing effect upon
the spirits, while the mere sight of labor is exhilarating to
energetic minds.

He greeted Christie kindly, and then addressed himself to Mrs.
Wilkins on various charitable matters, for he was a minister at
large, and she one of his almoners. Christie could really see him
now, for when he preached she forgot the man in the sermon, and
thought of him only as a visible conscience.

A sturdy man of fifty, with a keen, brave face, penetrating eyes,
and mouth a little grim; but a voice so resonant and sweet it
reminded one of silver trumpets, and stirred and won the hearer with
irresistible power. Rough gray hair, and all the features rather
rugged, as if the Great Sculptor had blocked out a grand statue, and
left the man's own soul to finish it.

Had Christie known that he came to see her she would have been ill
at ease; but Mrs. Wilkins had kept her own counsel, so when Mr.
Power turned to Christie, saying:

"My friend here tells me you want something to do. Would you like to
help a Quaker lady with her housework, just out of town?"

She answered readily: "Yes, sir, any thing that is honest."

"Not as a servant, exactly, but companion and helper. Mrs. Sterling
is a dear old lady, and the place a pleasant little nest. It is good
to be there, and I think you'll say so if you go."

"It sounds pleasant. When shall I go?"

Mr. Power smiled at her alacrity, but the longing look in her eyes
explained it, for he saw at a glance that her place was not here.

"I will write at once and let you know how matters are settled. Then
you shall try it, and if it is not what you want, we will find you
something else. There's plenty to do, and nothing pleasanter than to
put the right pair of hands to the right task. Good-by; come and see
me if the spirit moves, and don't let go of Mrs. Wilkins till you
lay hold of a better friend, if you can find one."

Then he shook hands cordially, and went walking out again into the
wild March weather as if he liked it.

"Were you afraid of him?" asked Mrs. Wilkins.

"I forgot all about it: he looked so kind and friendly. But I
shouldn't like to have those piercing eyes of his fixed on me long
if I had any secret on my conscience," answered Christie.

"You ain't nothin' to fear. He liked your way of speakin' fust rate,
I see that, and you'll be all right now he's took hold."

"Do you know Mrs. Sterling?"

"Only by sight, but she's a sweet appearin' woman, and I wouldn't
ask nothin' better 'n to see more of her," said Mrs. Wilkins,
warmly, fearing Christie's heart might misgive her.

But it did not, and when a note came saying Mrs. Sterling would be
ready for her the next week, she seemed quite content with every
thing, for though the wages were not high she felt that country air
and quiet were worth more to her just then than money, and that
Wilkinses were better taken homceopathically.

The spirit did move her to go and see Mr. Power, but she could not
make up her mind to pass that invisible barrier which stands between
so many who could give one another genuine help if they only dared
to ask it. But when Sunday came she went to church, eager for more,
and thankful that she knew where to go for it.

This was a very different sermon from the other, and Christie felt
as if he preached it for her alone. "Keep innocency and take heed to
the thing that is right, for this will bring a man peace at the
last," might have been the text, and Mr. Power treated it as if he
had known all the trials and temptations that made it hard to live
up to.

Justice and righteous wrath possessed him before, now mercy and
tenderest sympathy for those who faltered in well-doing, and the
stern judge seemed changed to a pitiful father. But better than the
pity was the wise counsel, the cheering words, and the devout
surrender of the soul to its best instincts; its close communion
with its Maker, unchilled by fear, untrammelled by the narrowness of
sect or superstition, but full and free and natural as the breath of
life.

As she listened Christie felt as if she was climbing up from a
solitary valley, through mist and shadow toward a mountain top,
where, though the way might be rough and strong winds blow, she
would get a wider outlook over the broad earth, and be nearer the
serene blue sky. For the first time in her life religion seemed a
visible and vital thing; a power that she could grasp and feel, take
into her life and make her daily bread. Not a vague, vast idea
floating before her, now beautiful, now terrible, always undefined
and far away.

She was strangely and powerfully moved that day, for the ploughing
had begun; and when the rest stood up for the last hymn, Christie
could only bow her head and let the uncontrollable tears flow down
like summer rain, while her heart sang with new aspiration:

    "Nearer, my God, to thee,
    E'en though a cross it be
    That raiseth me,
    Still all my song shall be,
    Nearer, my God, to thee.
    Nearer to thee!"

Sitting with her hand before her eyes, she never stirred till the
sound of many feet told her that service was done. Then she wiped
her eyes, dropped her veil, and was about to rise when she saw a
little bunch of flowers between the leaves of the hymn book lying
open in her lap. Only a knot of violets set in their own broad
leaves, but blue as friendly eyes looking into hers, and sweet as
kind words whispered in her ear. She looked about her hoping to
detect and thank the giver; but all faces were turned the other way,
and all feet departing rapidly.

Christie followed with a very grateful thought in her heart for this
little kindness from some unknown friend; and, anxious to recover
herself entirely before she faced Mrs. Wilkins, she took a turn in
the park.

The snow was gone, high winds had dried the walk, and a clear sky
overhead made one forget sodden turf and chilly air. March was going
out like a lamb, and Christie enjoyed an occasional vernal whiff
from far-off fields and wakening woods, as she walked down the broad
mall watching the buds on the boughs, and listening to the twitter
of the sparrows, evidently discussing the passers-by as they sat at
the doors of their little mansions.

Presently she turned to walk back again and saw Mr. Power coming
toward her. She was glad, for all her fear had vanished now, and she
wanted to thank him for the sermon that had moved her so deeply. He
shook hands in his cordial way, and, turning, walked with her,
beginning at once to talk of her affairs as if interested in them.

"Are you ready for the new experiment?" he asked.

"Quite ready, sir; very glad to go, and very much obliged to you for
your kindness in providing for me."

"That is what we were put into the world for, to help one another.
You can pass on the kindness by serving my good friends who, in
return, will do their best for you."

"That's so pleasant! I always knew there were plenty of good,
friendly people in the world, only I did not seem to find them
often, or be able to keep them long when I did. Is Mr. Sterling an
agreeable old man?"

"Very agreeable, but not old. David is about thirty-one or two, I
think. He is the son of my friend, the husband died some years ago.
I thought I mentioned it."

"You said in your note that Mr. Sterling was a florist, and might
like me to help in the green-house, if I was willing. It must be
lovely work, and I should like it very much."

"Yes, David devotes himself to his flowers, and leads a very quiet
life. You may think him rather grave and blunt at first, but you'll
soon find him out and get on comfortably, for he is a truly
excellent fellow, and my right-hand man in good works."

A curious little change had passed over Christie's face during these
last questions and answers, unconscious, but quite observable to
keen eyes like Mr. Power's. Surprise and interest appeared first,
then a shadow of reserve as if the young woman dropped a thin veil
between herself and the young man, and at the last words a half
smile and a slight raising of the brows seemed to express the queer
mixture of pity and indifference with which we are all apt to regard
"excellent fellows" and "amiable girls." Mr. Power understood the
look, and went on more confidentially than he had at first intended,
for he did not want Christie to go off with a prejudice in her mind
which might do both David and herself injustice.

"People sometimes misjudge him, for he is rather old-fashioned in
manner and plain in speech, and may seem unsocial, because he does
not seek society. But those who know the cause of this forgive any
little short-comings for the sake of the genuine goodness of the
man. David had a great trouble some years ago and suffered much. He
is learning to bear it bravely, and is the better for it, though the
memory of it is still bitter, and the cross hard to bear even with
pride to help him hide it, and principle to keep him from despair."

Mr. Power glanced at Christie as he paused, and was satisfied with
the effect of his words, for interest, pity, and respect shone in
her face, and proved that he had touched the right string. She
seemed to feel that this little confidence was given for a purpose,
and showed that she accepted it as a sort of gage for her own
fidelity to her new employers.

"Thank you, sir, I shall remember," she said, with her frank eyes
lifted gravely to his own. "I like to work for people whom I can
respect," she added, "and will bear with any peculiarities of Mr.
Sterling's without a thought of complaint. When a man has suffered
through one woman, all women should be kind and patient with him,
and try to atone for the wrong which lessens his respect and faith
in them."

"There you are right; and in this case all women should be kind, for
David pities and protects womankind as the only retaliation for the
life-long grief one woman brought upon him. That's not a common
revenge, is it?"

"It's beautiful!" cried Christie, and instantly David was a hero.

"At one time it was an even chance whether that trouble sent David
to 'the devil,' as he expressed it, or made a man of him. That
little saint of a mother kept him safe till the first desperation
was over, and now he lives for her, as he ought. Not so romantic an
ending as a pistol or Byronic scorn for the world in general and
women in particular, but dutiful and brave, since it often takes
more courage to live than to die."

"Yes, sir," said Christie, heartily, though her eyes fell,
remembering how she had failed with far less cause for despair than
David.

They were at the gate now, and Mr. Power left her, saying, with a
vigorous hand-shake:

"Best wishes for a happy summer. I shall come sometimes to see how
you prosper; and remember, if you tire of it and want to change, let
me know, for I take great satisfaction in putting the right people
in the right places. Good-by, and God be with you."






CHAPTER X.

BEGINNING AGAIN.





MRS. STERLING.

IT was an April day when Christie went to her new home. Warm rains
had melted the last trace of snow, and every bank was full of
pricking grass-blades, brave little pioneers and heralds of the
Spring. The budding elm boughs swung in the wind; blue-jays screamed
among the apple-trees; and robins chirped shrilly, as if rejoicing
over winter hardships safely passed. Vernal freshness was in the air
despite its chill, and lovely hints of summer time were everywhere.

These welcome sights and sounds met Christie, as she walked down the
lane, and, coming to a gate, paused there to look about her. An
old-fashioned cottage stood in the midst of a garden just awakening
from its winter sleep. One elm hung protectingly over the low roof,
sunshine lay warmly on it, and at every window flowers' bright faces
smiled at the passer-by invitingly.

On one side glittered a long green-house, and on the other stood a
barn, with a sleek cow ruminating in the yard, and an inquiring
horse poking his head out of his stall to view the world. Many
comfortable gray hens were clucking and scratching about the
hay-strewn floor, and a flock of doves sat cooing on the roof.

A quiet, friendly place it looked; for nothing marred its peace, and
the hopeful, healthful spirit of the season seemed to haunt the
spot. Snow-drops and crocuses were up in one secluded nook; a plump
maltese cat sat purring in the porch; and a dignified old dog came
marching down the walk to escort the stranger in. With a brightening
face Christie went up the path, and tapped at the quaint knocker,
hoping that the face she was about to see would be in keeping with
the pleasant place.

She was not disappointed, for the dearest of little Quaker ladies
opened to her, with such an air of peace and good-will that the
veriest ruffian, coming to molest or make afraid, would have found
it impossible to mar the tranquillity of that benign old face, or
disturb one fold of the soft muslin crossed upon her breast.

"I come from Mr. Power, and I have a note for Mrs. Sterling," began
Christie in her gentlest tone, as her last fear vanished at sight of
that mild maternal figure.

"I am she; come in, friend; I am glad to see thee," said the old
lady, smiling placidly, as she led the way into a room whose
principal furniture seemed to be books, flowers, and sunshine.

The look, the tone, the gentle "thee," went straight to Christie's
heart; and, while Mrs. Sterling put on her spectacles and slowly
read the note, she stroked the cat and said to herself: "Surely, I
have fallen among a set of angels. I thought Mrs. Wilkins a sort of
saint, Mr. Power was an improvement even upon that good soul, and if
I am not mistaken this sweet little lady is the best and dearest of
all. I do hope she will like me."

"It is quite right, my dear, and I am most glad to see thee; for we
need help at this season of the year, and have had none for several
weeks. Step up to the room at the head of the stairs, and lay off
thy things. Then, if thee is not tired, I will give thee a little
job with me in the kitchen," said the old lady with a kindly
directness which left no room for awkwardness on the new-comer's
part.

Up went Christie, and after a hasty look round a room as plain and
white and still as a nun's cell, she whisked on a working-apron and
ran down again, feeling, as she fancied the children did in the
fairy tale, when they first arrived at the house of the little old
woman who lived in the wood.

Mrs. Wilkins's kitchen was as neat as a room could be, wherein six
children came and went, but this kitchen was tidy with the
immaculate order of which Shakers and Quakers alone seem to possess
the secret,--a fragrant, shining cleanliness, that made even black
kettles ornamental and dish-pans objects of interest. Nothing burned
or boiled over, though the stove was full of dinner-pots and
skillets. There was no litter or hurry, though the baking of cake
and pies was going on, and when Mrs. Sterling put a pan of apples,
and a knife into her new assistant's hands, saying in a tone that
made the request a favor, "Will thee kindly pare these for me?"
Christie wondered what would happen if she dropped a seed upon the
floor, or did not cut the apples into four exact quarters.

"I never shall suit this dear prim soul," she thought, as her eye
went from Puss, sedately perched on one small mat, to the dog dozing
upon another, and neither offering to stir from their own dominions.

This dainty nicety amused her at first, but she liked it, and very
soon her thoughts went back to the old times when she worked with
Aunt Betsey, and learned the good old-fashioned arts which now were
to prove her fitness for this pleasant place.

Mrs. Sterling saw the shadow that crept into Christie's face, and
led the chat to cheerful things, not saying much herself, but
beguiling the other to talk, and listening with an interest that
made it easy to go on.

Mr. Power and the Wilkinses made them friends very soon; and in an
hour or two Christie was moving about the kitchen as if she had
already taken possession of her new kingdom.

"Thee likes housework I think," said Mrs. Sterling, as she watched
her hang up a towel to dry, and rinse her dish-cloth when the
cleaning up was done.

"Oh, yes! if I need not do it with a shiftless Irish girl to drive
me distracted by pretending to help. I have lived out, and did not
find it hard while I had my good Hepsey. I was second girl, and can
set a table in style. Shall I try now?" she asked, as the old lady
went into a little dining-room with fresh napkins in her hand.

"Yes, but we have no style here. I will show thee once, and
hereafter it will be thy work, as thy feet are younger than mine."

A nice old-fashioned table was soon spread, and Christie kept
smiling at the contrast between this and Mrs. Stuart's. Chubby
little pitchers appeared, delicate old glass, queer china, and tiny
tea-spoons; linen as smooth as satin, and a quaint tankard that
might have come over in the "May-flower."

"Now, will thee take that pitcher of water to David's room? It is at
the top of the house, and may need a little dusting. I have not been
able to attend to it as I would like since I have been alone," said
Mrs. Sterling.

Rooms usually betray something of the character and tastes of their
occupants, and Christie paused a moment as she entered David's, to
look about her with feminine interest.

It was the attic, and extended the whole length of the house. One
end was curtained off as a bedroom, and she smiled at its austere
simplicity.

A gable in the middle made a sunny recess, where were stored bags
and boxes of seed, bunches of herbs, and shelves full of those tiny
pots in which baby plants are born and nursed till they can grow
alone.

The west end was evidently the study, and here Christie took a good
look as she dusted tidily. The furniture was nothing, only an old
sofa, with the horsehair sticking out in tufts here and there; an
antique secretary; and a table covered with books. As she whisked
the duster down the front of the ancient piece of furniture, one of
the doors in the upper half swung open, and Christie saw three
objects that irresistibly riveted her eyes for a moment. A broken
fan, a bundle of letters tied up with a black ribbon, and a little
work-basket in which lay a fanciful needle-book with "Letty"
embroidered on it in faded silk.

"Poor David, that is his little shrine, and I have no right to see
it," thought Christie, shutting the door with self-reproachful
haste.

At the table she paused again, for books always attracted her, and
here she saw a goodly array whose names were like the faces of old
friends, because she remembered them in her father's library.

Faust was full of ferns, Shakspeare, of rough sketches of the men
and women whom he has made immortal. Saintly Herbert lay side by
side with Saint Augustine's confessions. Milton and Montaigne stood
socially together, and Andersen's lovely "Mrchen" fluttered its
pictured leaves in the middle of an open Plato; while several books
in unknown tongues were half-hidden by volumes of Browning, Keats,
and Coleridge.

In the middle of this fine society, slender and transparent as the
spirit of a shape, stood a little vase holding one half-opened rose,
fresh and fragrant as if just gathered.

Christie smiled as she saw it, and wondered if the dear, dead, or
false woman had been fond of roses.

Then her eye went to the mantel-piece, just above the table, and she
laughed; for, on it stood three busts, idols evidently, but very
shabby ones; for Gthe's nose was broken, Schiller's head cracked
visibly, and the dust of ages seemed to have settled upon Linnus in
the middle. On the wall above them hung a curious old picture of a
monk kneeling in a devout ecstasy, while the face of an angel is
dimly seen through the radiance that floods the cell with divine
light. Portraits of Mr. Power and Martin Luther stared thoughtfully
at one another from either side, as if making up their minds to
shake hands in spite of time and space.

"Melancholy, learned, and sentimental," said Christie to herself, as
she settled David's character after these discoveries.

The sound of a bell made her hasten down, more curious than ever to
see if this belief was true.

"Perhaps thee had better step out and call my son. Sometimes he does
not hear the bell when he is busy. Thee will find my garden-hood and
shawl behind the door," said Mrs. Sterling, presently; for
punctuality was a great virtue in the old lady's eyes.

Christie demurely tied on the little pumpkin-hood, wrapped the gray
shawl about her, and set out to find her "master," as she had a
fancy to call this unknown David.

From the hints dropped by Mr. Power, and her late discoveries, she
had made a hero for herself; a sort of melancholy Jaques; sad and
pale and stern; retired from the world to nurse his wounds in
solitude. She rather liked this picture; for romance dies hard in a
woman, and, spite of her experiences, Christie still indulged in
dreams and fancies. "It will be so interesting to see how he bears
his secret sorrow. I am fond of woe; but I do hope he won't be too
lackadaisical, for I never could abide that sort of blighted being."

Thinking thus, she peeped here and there, but saw no one in yard or
barn, except a workman scraping the mould off his boots near the
conservatory.

"This David is among the flowers, I fancy; I will just ask, and not
bolt in, as he does not know me. "Where is Mr. Sterling?" added
Christie aloud, as she approached.

The man looked up, and a smile came into his eyes, as he glanced
from the old hood to the young face inside. Then he took off his
hat, and held out his hand, saying with just his mother's simple
directness:

"I am David; and this is Christie Devon, I know. How do you do?"

"Yes; dinner's ready," was all she could reply, for the discovery
that this was the "master," nearly took her breath away. Not the
faintest trace of the melancholy Jaques about him; nothing
interesting, romantic, pensive, or even stern. Only a
broad-shouldered, brown-bearded man, with an old hat and coat,
trousers tucked into his boots, fresh mould on the hand he had given
her to shake, and the cheeriest voice she had ever heard.

What a blow it was to be sure! Christie actually felt vexed with him
for disappointing her so, and could not recover herself, but stood
red and awkward, till, with a last scrape of his boots, David said
with placid brevity:

"Well, shall we go in?"

Christie walked rapidly into the house, and by the time she got
there the absurdity of her fancy struck her, and she stifled a laugh
in the depths of the little pumpkin-hood, as she hung it up. Then,
assuming her gravest air, she went to give the finishing touches to
dinner.

Ten minutes later she received another surprise; for David appeared
washed, brushed, and in a suit of gray,--a personable gentleman,
quite unlike the workman in the yard.

Christie gave one look, met a pair of keen yet kind eyes with a
suppressed laugh in them, and dropped her own, to be no more lifted
up till dinner was done.

It was a very quiet meal, for no one said much; and it was evidently
the custom of the house to eat silently, only now and then saying a
few friendly words, to show that the hearts were social if the
tongues were not.

On the present occasion this suited Christie; and she ate her dinner
without making any more discoveries, except that the earth-stained
hands were very clean now, and skilfully supplied her wants before
she could make them known.

As they rose from table, Mrs. Sterling said: "Davy, does thee want
any help this afternoon?"

"I shall be very glad of some in about an hour if thee can spare it,
mother."

"I can, dear."

"Do you care for flowers?" asked David, turning to Christie,
"because if you do not, this will be a very trying place for you."

"I used to love them dearly; but I have not had any for so long I
hardly remember how they look," answered Christie with a sigh, as
she recalled Rachel's roses, dead long ago. "Shy, sick, and sad;
poor soul, we must lend a hand and cheer her up a bit" thought
David, as he watched her eyes turn toward the green tilings in the
windows with a bright, soft look, he liked to see.

"Come to the conservatory in an hour, and I'll show you the best
part of a 'German,'" he said, with a nod and a smile, as he went
away, beginning to whistle like a boy when the door was shut behind
him.

"What did he mean?" thought Christie, as she helped clear the table,
and put every thing in Pimlico order.

She was curious to know, and when Mrs. Sterling said: "Now, my dear,
I am going to take my nap, and thee can help David if thee likes,"
she was quite ready to try the new work.

She would have been more than woman if she had not first slipped
upstairs to smooth her hair, put on a fresh collar, and a black silk
apron with certain effective frills and pockets, while a scarlet
rigolette replaced the hood, and lent a little color to her pale
cheeks.

"I am a poor ghost of what I was," she thought; "but that's no
matter: few can be pretty, any one can be neat, and that is more
than ever necessary here."

Then she went away to the conservatory, feeling rather oppressed
with the pity and sympathy, for which there was no call, and
fervently wishing that David would not be so comfortable, for he ate
a hearty dinner, laughed four times, and whistled as no heart-broken
man would dream of doing.

No one was visible as she went in, and walking slowly down the green
aisle, she gave herself up to the enjoyment of the lovely place. The
damp, sweet air made summer there, and a group of slender, oriental
trees whispered in the breath of wind that blew in from an open
sash. Strange vines and flowers hung overhead; banks of azaleas,
ruddy, white, and purple, bloomed in one place; roses of every hue
turned their lovely faces to the sun; ranks of delicate ferns, and
heaths with their waxen bells, were close by; glowing geraniums and
stately lilies side by side; savage-looking scarlet flowers with
purple hearts, or orange spikes rising from leaves mottled with
strange colors; dusky passion-flowers, and gay nasturtiums climbing
to the roof. All manner of beautiful and curious plants were there;
and Christie walked among them, as happy as a child who finds its
playmates again.

Coming to a bed of pansies she sat down on a rustic chair, and,
leaning forward, feasted her eyes on these her favorites. Her face
grew young as she looked, her hands touched them with a lingering
tenderness as if to her they were half human, and her own eyes were
so busy enjoying the gold and purple spread before her, that she did
not see another pair peering at her over an unneighborly old cactus,
all prickles, and queer knobs. Presently a voice said at her elbow:

"You look as if you saw something beside pansies there."

David spoke so quietly that it did not startle her, and she answered
before she had time to feel ashamed of her fancy.

"I do; for, ever since I was a child, I always see a little face
when I look at this flower. Sometimes it is a sad one, sometimes
it's merry, often roguish, but always a dear little face; and when I
see so many together, it's like a flock of children, all nodding and
smiling at me at once."

"So it is!" and David nodded, and smiled himself, as he handed her
two or three of the finest, as if it was as natural a thing as to
put a sprig of mignonette in his own button-hole.

Christie thanked him, and then jumped up, remembering that she came
there to work, not to dream. He seemed to understand, and went into
a little room near by, saying, as he pointed to a heap of gay
flowers on the table:

"These are to be made into little bouquets for a 'German' to-night.
It is pretty work, and better fitted for a woman's fingers than a
man's. This is all you have to do, and you can vise your taste as to
colors."

While he spoke David laid a red and white carnation on a bit of
smilax, tied them together, twisted a morsel of silver foil about
the stems, and laid it before Christie as a sample.

"Yes, I can do that, and shall like it very much," she said, burying
her nose in the mass of sweetness before her, and feeling as if her
new situation grew pleasanter every minute.

"Here is the apron my mother uses, that bit of silk will soon be
spoilt, for the flowers are wet," and David gravely offered her a
large checked pinafore.

Christie could not help laughing as she put it on: all this was so
different from the imaginary picture she had made. She was
disappointed, and yet she began to feel as if the simple truth was
better than the sentimental fiction; and glanced up at David
involuntarily to see if there were any traces of interesting woe
about him.

But he was looking at her with the steady, straight-forward look
which she liked so much, yet could not meet just yet; and all she
saw was that he was smiling also with an indulgent expression as if
she was a little girl whom he was trying to amuse.

"Make a few, and I'll be back directly when I have attended to
another order," and he went away thinking Christie's face was very
like the pansies they had been talking about,--one of the sombre
ones with a bright touch of gold deep down in the heart, for thin
and pale as the face was, it lighted up at a kind word, and all the
sadness vanished out of the anxious eyes when the frank laugh came.

Christie fell to work with a woman's interest in such a pleasant
task, and soon tied and twisted skilfully, exercising all her taste
in contrasts, and the pretty little conceits flower-lovers can
produce. She was so interested that presently she began to hum half
unconsciously, as she was apt to do when happily employed:

    "Welcome, maids of honor,
    You do bring
    In the spring,
    And wait upon her.
    She has virgins many,
    Fresh and fair,
    Yet you are
    More sweet than any."

There she stopped, for David's step drew near, and she remembered
where she was.

"The last verse is the best in that little poem. Have you forgotten
it?" he said, pleased and surprised to find the new-comer singing
Herrick's lines "To Violets." "Almost; rny father used to say that
when we went looking for early violets, and these lovely ones
reminded me of it," explained Christie, rather abashed.

DAVID AND CHRISTIE IN THE GREENHOUSE.

As if to put her at ease David added, as he laid another handful of
double-violets on the table:

    "'Y' are the maiden posies,
    And so graced,
    To be placed
    Fore damask roses.
    Yet, though thus respected,
    By and by
    Ye do lie,
    Poor girls, neglected.'

"I always think of them as pretty, modest maids after that, and
can't bear to throw them away, even when faded."

Christie hoped he did not think her sentimental, and changed the
conversation by pointing to her work, and saying, in a business-like
way:

"Will these do? I have varied the posies as much as possible, so
that they may suit all sorts of tastes and whirns. I never went to a
'German' myself; but I have looked on, and remember hearing the
young people say the little bouquets didn't mean any thing, so I
tried to make these expressive."

"Well, I should think you had succeeded excellently, and it is a
very pretty fancy. Tell me what some of them mean: will you?"

"You should know better than I, being a florist," said Christie,
glad to see he approved of her work.

"I can grow the flowers, but not read them," and David looked rather
depressed by his own ignorance of those delicate matters.

Still with the business-like air, Christie held up one after another
of the little knots, saying soberly, though her eyes smiled:

"This white one might be given to a newly engaged girl, as
suggestive of the coming bridal. That half-blown bud would say a
great deal from a lover to his idol; and this heliotrope be most
encouraging to a timid swain. Here is a rosy daisy for some merry
little damsel; there is a scarlet posy for a soldier; this delicate
azalea and fern for some lovely creature just out; and there is a
bunch of sober pansies for a spinster, if spinsters go to 'Germans.'
Heath, scentless but pretty, would do for many; these Parma violets
for one with a sorrow; and this curious purple flower with
arrow-shaped stamens would just suit a handsome, sharp-tongued
woman, if any partner dared give it to her."

David laughed, as his eye went from the flowers to Christie's face,
and when she laid down the last breast-knot, looking as if she would
like the chance of presenting it to some one she knew, he seemed
much amused.

"If the beaux and belles at this party have the wit to read your
posies, my fortune will be made, and you will have your hands full
supplying compliments, declarations, rebukes, and criticisms for the
fashionable butterflies. I wish I could put consolation, hope, and
submission into my work as easily, but I am afraid I can't," he
added a moment afterward with a changed face, as he began to lay the
loveliest white flowers into a box.

"Those are not for a wedding, then?"

"For a dead baby; and I can't seem to find any white and sweet
enough."

"You know the people?" asked Christie, with the sympathetic tone in
her voice.

"Never saw or heard of them till to-day. Isn't it enough to know
that 'baby's dead,' as the poor man said, to make one feel for
them?"

"Of course it is; only you seemed so interested in arranging the
flowers, I naturally thought it was for some friend," Christie
answered hastily, for David looked half indignant at her question.

"I want them to look lovely and comforting when the mother opens the
box, and I don't seem to have the right flowers. Will you give it a
touch? women have a tender way of doing such things that we can
never learn."

"I don't think I can improve it, unless I add another sort of flower
that seems appropriate: may I?"

"Any thing you can find."

Christie waited for no more, but ran out of the greenhouse to
David's great surprise, and presently came hurrying back with a
handful of snow-drops.

"Those are just what I wanted, but I didn't know the little dears
were up yet! You shall put them in, and I know they will suggest
what you hope to these poor people," he said approvingly, as he
placed the box before her, and stood by watching her adjust the
little sheaf of pale flowers tied up with a blade of grass. She
added a frail fern or two, and did give just the graceful touch here
and there which would speak to the mother's gore heart of the tender
thought some one had taken for her dead darling.

The box was sent away, and Christie went on with her work, but that
little task performed together seemed to have made them friends;
and, while David tied up several grand bouquets at the same table,
they talked as if the strangeness was fast melting away from their
short acquaintance.

Christie's own manners were so simple that simplicity in others
always put her at her ease: kindness soon banished her reserve, and
the desire to show that she was grateful for it helped her to
please. David's bluntness was of such a gentle sort that she soon
got used to it, and found it a pleasant contrast to the polite
insincerity so common. He was as frank and friendly as a boy, yet
had a certain paternal way with him which rather annoyed her at
first, and made her feel as if he thought her a mere girl, while she
was very sure he could not be but a year or two older than herself.

"I'd rather he'd be masterful, and order me about," she thought,
still rather regretting the "blighted being" she had not found.

In spite of this she spent a pleasant afternoon, sitting in that
sunny place, handling flowers, asking questions about them, and
getting the sort of answers she liked; not dry botanical names and
facts, but all the delicate traits, curious habits, and poetical
romances of the sweet things, as if the speaker knew and loved them
as friends, not merely valued them as merchandise.

They had just finished when the great dog came bouncing in with a
basket in his mouth.

"Mother wants eggs: will you come to the barn and get them? Hay is
wholesome, and you can feed the doves if you like," said David,
leading the way with Bran rioting about him.

"Why don't he offer to put up a swing for me, or get me a doll? It's
the pinafore that deceives him. Never mind: I rather like it after
all," thought Christie; but she left the apron behind her, and
followed with the most dignified air.

It did not last long, however, for the sights and sounds that
greeted her, carried her back to the days of egg-hunting in Uncle
Enos's big barn; and, before she knew it, she was rustling through
the hay mows, talking to the cow and receiving the attentions of
Bran with a satisfaction it was impossible to conceal.

The hens gathered about her feet cocking their expectant eyes at
her; the doves came circling round her head; the cow stared
placidly, and the inquisitive horse responded affably when she
offered him a handful of hay.

"How tame they all are! I like animals, they are so contented and
intelligent," she said, as a plump dove lit on her shoulder with an
impatient coo.

"That was Kitty's pet, she always fed the fowls. Would you like to
do it?" and David offered a little measure of oats.

"Very much;" and Christie began to scatter the grain, wondering who
"Kitty" was.

As if he saw the wish in her face, David added, while he shelled
corn for the hens:

"She was the little girl who was with us last. Her father kept her
in a factory, and took all her wages, barely giving her clothes and
food enough to keep her alive. The poor child ran away, and was
trying to hide when Mr. Power found and sent her here to be cared
for."

"As he did me?" said Christie quickly.

"Yes, that's a way he has."

"A very kind and Christian way. Why didn't she stay?"

"Well, it was rather quiet for the lively little thing, and rather
too near the city, so we got a good place up in the country where
she could go to school and learn housework. The mill had left her no
time for these things, and at fifteen she was as ignorant as a
child."

"You must miss her."

"I do very much."

"Was she pretty?"

"She looked like a little rose sometimes," and David smiled to
himself as he fed the gray hens.

Christie immediately made a picture of the "lively little thing"
with a face "like a rose," and was uncomfortably conscious that she
did not look half as well feeding doves as Kitty must have done.

Just then David handed her the basket, saying in the paternal way
that half amused, half piqued her: "It, is getting too chilly for
you here: take these in please, and I'll bring the milk directly."

In spite of herself she smiled, as a sudden vision of the elegant
Mr. Fletcher, devotedly carrying her book or beach-basket, passed
through her mind; then hastened to explain the smile, for David
lifted his brows inquiringly, and glanced about him to see what
amused her.

"I beg your pardon: I've lived alone so much that it seems a little
odd to be told to do things, even if they are as easy and pleasant
as this."

"I am so used to taking care of people, and directing, that I do so
without thinking. I won't if you don't like it," and he put out his
hand to take back the basket with a grave, apologetic air.

"But I do like it; only it amused me to be treated. like a little
girl again, when I am nearly thirty, and feel seventy at least, life
has been so hard to me lately."

Her face sobered at the last words, and David's instantly grew so
pitiful she could not keep her eyes on it lest they should fill, so
suddenly did the memory of past troubles overcome her.

"I know," he said in a tone that warmed her heart, "I know, but we
are going to try, and make life easier for you now, and you must
feel that this is home and we are friends."

"I do!" and Christie flushed with grateful feeling and a little
shame, as she went in, thinking to herself: "How silly I was to say
that! I may have spoilt the simple friendliness that was so
pleasant, and have made him think me a foolish stuck-up old
creature."

Whatever he might have thought, David's manner was unchanged when he
came in and found her busy with the table.

"It's pleasant to see thee resting, mother, and every thing going on
so well," he said, glancing about the room, where the old lady sat,
and nodding toward the kitchen, where Christie was toasting bread in
her neatest manner.

"Yes, Davy, it was about time I had a helper for thy sake, at least;
and this is a great improvement upon heedless Kitty, I am inclined
to think."

Mrs. Sterling dropped her voice over that last sentence; but
Christie heard it, and was pleased. A moment or two later, David
came toward her with a glass in his hand, saying as if rather
doubtful of his reception:

"New milk is part of the cure: will you try it?"

For the first time, Christie looked straight up in the honest eyes
that seemed to demand honesty in others, and took the glass,
answering heartily:

"Yes, thank you; I drink good health to you, and better manners to
me."

The newly lighted lamp shone full in her face, and though it was
neither young nor blooming, it showed something better than youth
and bloom to one who could read the subtle language of character as
David could. He nodded as he took the glass, and went away saying
quietly:

"We are plain people here, and you won't find it hard to get on with
us, I think."

But he liked the candid look, and thought about it, as he chopped
kindlings, whistling with a vigor which caused Christie to smile as
she strained the milk.

After tea a spider-legged table was drawn out toward the hearth,
where an open fire burned cheerily, and puss purred on the rug, with
Bran near by. David unfolded his newspapers, Mrs. Sterling pinned on
her knitting-sheath, and Christie sat a moment enjoying the
comfortable little scene. She sighed without knowing it, and Mrs.
Sterling asked quickly: "Is thee tired, my dear?" "Oh, no! only
happy."

"I am glad of that: I was afraid thee would find it dull."

"It's beautiful!" then Christie checked herself feeling that these
outbursts would not suit such quiet people; and, half ashamed of
showing how much she felt, she added soberly, "If you will give me
something to do I shall be quite contented."

"Sewing is not good for thee. If thee likes to knit I'll set up a
sock for thee to-morrow," said the old lady well pleased at the
industrious turn of her new handmaid.

"I like to darn, and I see some to be done in this basket. May I do
it?" and Christie laid hold of the weekly job which even the best
housewives are apt to set aside for pleasanter tasks.

"As thee likes, my dear. My eyes will not let me sew much in the
evening, else I should have finished that batch to-night. Thee will
find the yarn and needles in the little bag."

So Christie fell to work on gray socks, and neat lavender-colored
hose, while the old lady knit swiftly, and David read aloud.
Christie thought she was listening to the report of a fine lecture;
but her ear only caught the words, for her mind wandered away into a
region of its own, and lived there till her task was done. Then she
laid the tidy pile in the basket, drew her chair to a corner of the
hearth, and quietly enjoyed herself.

The cat, feeling sure of a welcome, got up into her lap, and went to
sleep in a cosy bunch; Bran laid his nose across her feet, and
blinked at her with sleepy good-will, while her eyes wandered round
the room, from its quaint furniture and the dreaming flowers in the
windows, to the faces of its occupants, and lingered there.

The plain border of a Quaker cap encircled that mild old face, with
bands of silver hair parted on a forehead marked with many lines.
But the eyes were clear and sweet; winter roses bloomed in the
cheeks, and an exquisite neatness pervaded the small figure, from
the trim feet on the stool, to the soft shawl folded about the
shoulders, as only a Quakeress can fold one. In Mrs. Sterling, piety
and peace made old age lovely, and the mere presence of this
tranquil soul seemed to fill the room with a reposeful charm none
could resist.

The other face possessed no striking comeliness of shape or color;
but the brown, becoming beard made it manly, and the broad arch of a
benevolent brow added nobility to features otherwise not
beautiful,--a face plainly expressing resolution and rectitude,
inspiring respect as naturally as it certain protective kindliness
of manner won confidence. Even in repose wearing a vigilant look as
if some hidden pain or passion lay in wait to surprise and conquer
the sober cheerfulness that softened the lines of the firm-set lips,
and warmed the glance of the thoughtful eyes.

Christie fancied she possessed the key to this, and longed to know
all the story of the cross which Mr. Power said David had learned to
bear so well. Then she began to wonder if they could like and keep
her, to hope so, and to feel that here at last she was at home with
friends. But the old sadness crept over her, as she remembered how
often she had thought this before, and how soon the dream ended, the
ties were broken, and she adrift again.

"Ah well," she said within herself, "I won't think of the morrow,
but take the good that comes and enjoy it while I may. I must not
disappoint Rachel, since she kept her word so nobly to me. Dear
soul, when shall I see her again?"

The thought of Rachel always touched her heart; more now than ever;
and, as she leaned back in her chair with closed eyes and idle
hands, these tender memories made her unconscious face most
eloquent. The eyes peering over the spectacles telegraphed a meaning
message to the other eyes glancing over the paper now and then; and
both these friends in deed as well as name felt assured that this
woman needed all the comfort they could give her. But the busy
needles never stopped their click, and the sonorous voice read on
without a pause, so Christie never knew what mute confidences passed
between mother and son, or what helpful confessions her traitorous
face had made for her.

The clock struck nine, and these primitive people prepared for rest;
for their day began at dawn, and much wholesome work made sleep a
luxury.

"Davy will tap at thy door as he goes down in the morning, and I
will soon follow to show thee about matters. Good-night, and good
rest, my child."

So speaking, the little lady gave Christie a maternal kiss; David
shook hands; and then she went away, wondering why service was so
lightened by such little kindnesses.

As she lay in her narrow white bed, with the "pale light of stars"
filling the quiet, cell-like room, and some one playing softly on a
flute overhead, she felt as if she had left the troublous world
behind her, and shutting out want, solitude, and despair, had come
into some safe, secluded spot full of flowers and sunshine, kind
hearts, and charitable deeds.






CHAPTER XL

IN THE STRAWBERRY BED.





FROM that day a new life began for Christie, a happy, quiet, useful
life, utterly unlike any of the brilliant futures she had planned
for herself; yet indescribably pleasant to her now, for past
experience had taught her its worth, and made her ready to enjoy it.

Never had spring seemed so early or so fair, never had such a crop
of hopeful thoughts and happy feelings sprung up in her heart as
now; and nowhere was there a brighter face, a blither voice, or more
willing hands than Christie's when the apple blossoms came.

This was what she needed, the protection of a home, wholesome cares
and duties; and, best of all, friends to live and labor for, loving
and beloved. Her whole soul was in her work now, and as health
returned, much of the old energy and cheerfulness came with it, a
little sobered, but more sweet and earnest than ever. No task was
too hard or humble; no day long enough to do all she longed to do;
and no sacrifice would have seemed too great for those whom she
regarded with steadily increasing love and gratitude.

Up at dawn, the dewy freshness of the hour, the morning rapture of
the birds, the daily miracle of sunrise, set her heart in tune, and
gave her Nature's most healing balm. She kept the little house in
order, with Mrs. Sterling to direct and share the labor so
pleasantly, that mistress and maid soon felt like mother and
daughter, and Christie often said she did not care for any other
wages.

The house-work of this small family was soon done, and then Christie
went to tasks that she liked better. Much out-of-door life was good
for her, and in garden and green-house there was plenty of light
labor she could do. So she grubbed contentedly in the wholesome
earth, weeding and potting, learning to prune and bud, and finding
Mrs. Wilkins was quite right in her opinion of the sanitary virtues
of dirt.

Trips to town to see the good woman and carry country gifts to the
little folks; afternoon drives with Mrs. Sterling in the
old-fashioned chaise, drawn by the Roman-nosed horse, and Sunday
pilgrimages to church to be "righted up" by one of Mr. Power's
stirring sermons, were among her new pleasures. But, on the whole,
the evenings were her happiest times: for then David read aloud
while she worked; she sung to the old piano tuned for her use; or,
better still, as spring came on, they sat in the porch, and talked
as people only do talk when twilight, veiling the outer world, seems
to lift the curtains of that inner world where minds go exploring,
hearts learn to know one another, and souls walk together in the
cool of the day.

At such times Christie seemed to catch glimpses of another David
than the busy, cheerful man apparently contented with the humdrum
duties of an obscure, laborious life, and the few unexciting
pleasures afforded by books, music, and much silent thought. She
sometimes felt with a woman's instinct that under this composed,
commonplace existence another life went on; for, now and then, in
the interest of conversation, or the involuntary yielding to a
confidential impulse, a word, a look, a gesture, betrayed an
unexpected power and passion, a secret unrest, a bitter memory that
would not be ignored.

Only at rare moments did she catch these glimpses, and so brief, so
indistinct, were they that she half believed her own lively fancy
created them. She longed to know more; but "David's trouble" made
him sacred in her eyes from any prying curiosity, and always after
one of these twilight betrayals Christie found him so like his
unromantic self next day, that she laughed and said:

"I never shall outgrow my foolish way of trying to make people other
than they are. Gods are gone, heroes hard to find, and one should be
contented with good men, even if they do wear old clothes, lead
prosaic lives, and have no accomplishments but gardening, playing
the flute, and keeping their temper."

She felt the influences of that friendly place at once; but for a
time she wondered at the natural way in which kind things were done,
the protective care extended over her, and the confiding air with
which these people treated her. They asked no questions, demanded no
explanations, seemed unconscious of conferring favors, and took her
into their life so readily that she marvelled, even while she
rejoiced, at the good fortune which led her there.

She understood this better when she discovered, what Mr. Power had
not mentioned, that the little cottage was a sort of refuge for many
women like herself; a half-way house where they could rest and
recover themselves after the wrongs, defeats, and weariness that
come to such in the battle of life.

With a chivalry older and finer than any Spenser sung, Mr. Power
befriended these forlorn souls, and David was his faithful squire.
Whoever knocked at that low door was welcomed, warmed, and fed;
comforted, and set on their way, cheered and strengthened by the
sweet good-will that made charity no burden, and restored to the
more desperate and despairing their faith in human nature and God's
love.

There are many such green spots in this world of ours, which often
seems so bad that a second Deluge could hardly wash it clean again;
and these beneficent, unostentatious asylums are the salvation of
more troubled souls than many a great institution gilded all over
with the rich bequests of men who find themselves too heavily laden
to enter in at the narrow gate of heaven.

Happy the foot-sore, heart-weary traveller who turns from the
crowded, dusty highway down the green lane that leads to these
humble inns, where the sign of the Good Samaritan is written on the
face of whomsoever opens to the stranger, and refreshment for soul
and body is freely given in the name of Him who loved the poor.

Mr. Power came now and then, for his large parish left him but
little time to visit any but the needy. Christie enjoyed these brief
visits heartily, for her new friends soon felt that she was one of
them, and cordially took her into the large circle of workers and
believers to which they belonged.

Mr. Power's heart was truly an orphan asylum, and every lonely
creature found a welcome there. He could rebuke sin sternly, yet
comfort and uplift the sinner with fatherly compassion; righteous
wrath would flash from his eyes at injustice, and contempt sharpen
his voice as he denounced hypocrisy: yet the eyes that lightened
would dim with pity for a woman's wrong, a child's small sorrow; and
the voice that thundered would whisper consolation like a mother, or
give counsel with a wisdom books cannot teach.

He was a Moses in his day and generation, born to lead his people
out of the bondage of dead superstitions, and go before them through
a Red Sea of persecution into the larger liberty and love all souls
hunger for, and many are just beginning to find as they come
doubting, yet desiring, into the goodly land such pioneers as he
have planted in the wilderness.

He was like a tonic to weak natures and wavering wills; and Christie
felt a general revival going on within herself as her knowledge,
honor, and affection for him grew. His strength seemed to uphold
her; his integrity to rebuke all unworthiness in her own life; and
the magic of his generous, genial spirit to make the hard places
smooth, the bitter things sweet, and the world seem a happier,
honester place than she had ever thought it since her father died.

Mr. Power had been interested in her from the first; had watched her
through other eyes, and tried her by various unsuspected tests. She
stood them well; showed her faults as frankly as her virtues, and
tried to deserve their esteem by copying the excellencies she
admired in them.

"She is made of the right stuff, and we must keep her among us; for
she must not be lost or wasted by being left to drift about the
world with no ties to make her safe and happy. She is doing so well
here, let her stay till the restless spirit begins to stir again;
then she shall come to me and learn contentment by seeing greater
troubles than her own."

Mr. Power said this one day as he rose to go, after sitting an hour
with Mrs. Sterling, and hearing from her a good report of his new
protegee. The young people were out at work, and had not been called
in to see him, for the interview had been a confidential one. But as
he stood at the gate he saw Christie in the strawberry bed, and went
toward her, glad to see how well and happy she looked.

Her hat was hanging on her shoulders, and the sun giving her cheeks
a healthy color; she was humming to herself like a bee as her
fingers flew, and once she paused, shaded her eyes with her hand,
and took a long look at a figure down in the meadow; then she worked
on silent and smiling,--a pleasant creature to see, though her hair
was ruffled by the wind; her gingham gown pinned up; and her fingers
deeply stained with the blood of many berries.

"I wonder if that means anything?" thought Mr. Power, with a keen
glance from the distant man to the busy woman close at hand. "It
might be a helpful, happy thing for both, if poor David only could
forget."

He had time for no more castle-building, for a startled robin flew
away with a shrill chirp, and Christie looked up.

"Oh, I'm so glad!" she said, rising quickly. "I was picking a
special box for you, and now you can have a feast beside, just as
you like it, fresh from the vines. Sit here, please, and I'll hull
faster than you can eat."

"This is luxury!" and Mr. Power sat down on the three-legged stool
offered him, with a rhubarb leaf on his knee which Christie kept
supplying with delicious mouthfuls.

MR. POWER AND CHRISTIE IN THE STRAWBERRY BED.

"Well, and how goes it? Are we still happy and contented here?" he
asked.

"I feel as if I had been born again; as if this was a new heaven and
a new earth, and every thing was as it should be," answered
Christie, with a look of perfect satisfaction in her face.

"That's a pleasant hearing. Mrs. Sterling has been praising you, but
I wanted to be sure you were as satisfied as she. And how does David
wear? well, I hope."

"Oh, yes, he is very good to me, and is teaching me to be a
gardener, so that I needn't kill myself with sewing any more. Much
of this is fine work for women, and so healthy. Don't I look a
different creature from the ghost that came here three or four
mouths ago?" and she turned her face for inspection like a child.

"Yes, David is a good gardener. I often send my sort of plants here,
and he always makes them grow and blossom sooner or later," answered
Mr. Power, regarding her like a beneficent genie on a three-legged
stool.

"You are the fresh air, and Mrs. Sterling is the quiet sunshine that
does the work, I fancy. David only digs about the roots."

"Thank you for my share of the compliment; but why say 'only digs'?
That is a most important part of the work: I'm afraid you don't
appreciate David."

"Oh, yes, I do; but he rather aggravates me sometimes," said
Christie, laughing, as she put a particularly big berry in the green
plate to atone for her frankness.

"How?" asked Mr. Power, interested in these little revelations.

"Well, he won't be ambitious. I try to stir him up, for he has
talents; I've found that out: but he won't seem to care for any
thing but watching over his mother, reading his old books, and
making flowers bloom double when they ought to be single."

"There are worse ambitions than those, Christie. I know many a man
who would be far better employed in cherishing a sweet old woman,
studying Plato, and doubling the beauty of a flower, than in selling
principles for money, building up a cheap reputation that dies with
him, or chasing pleasures that turn to ashes in his mouth."

"Yes, sir; but isn't it natural for a young man to have some
personal aim or aspiration to live for? If David was a weak or dull
man I could understand it; but I seem to feel a power, a possibility
for something higher and better than any thing I see, and this frets
me. He is so good, I want him to be great also in some way."

"A wise man says, 'The essence of greatness is the perception that
virtue is enough.' I think David one of the most ambitious men I
ever knew, because at thirty he has discovered this truth, and taken
it to heart. Many men can be what the world calls great: very few
men are what God calls good. This is the harder task to choose, yet
the only success that satisfies, the only honor that outlives death.
These faithful lives, whether seen of men or hidden in corners, are
the salvation of the world, and few of us fail to acknowledge it in
the hours when we are brought close to the heart of things, and see
a little as God sees."

Christie did not speak for a moment: Mr. Power's voice had been so
grave, and his words so earnest that she could not answer lightly,
but sat turning over the new thoughts in her mind. Presently she
said, in a penitent but not quite satisfied tone:

"Of course you are right, sir. I'll try not to care for the outward
and visible signs of these hidden virtues; but I'm afraid I still
shall have a hankering for the worldly honors that are so valued by
most people."

"'Success and glory are the children of hard work and God's favor,'
according to schylus, and you will find he was right. David got a
heavy blow some years ago as I told you, I think; and he took it
hard, but it did not spoil him: it made a man of him; and, if I am
not much mistaken, he will yet do something to be proud of, though
the world may never hear of it."

"I hope so!" and Christie's face brightened at the thought.

"Nevertheless you look as if you doubted it, O you of little faith.
Every one has two sides to his nature: David has shown you the least
interesting one, and you judge accordingly. I think he will show you
the other side some day,--for you are one of the women who win
confidence without trying,--and then you will know the real David.
Don't expect too much, or quarrel with the imperfections that make
him human; but take him for what he is worth, and help him if you
can to make his life a brave and good one."

"I will, sir," answered Christie so meekly that Mr. Power laughed;
for this confessional in the strawberry bed amused him very much.

"You are a hero-worshipper, my dear; and if people don't come up to
the mark you are so disappointed that you fail to see the fine
reality which remains when the pretty romance ends. Saints walk
about the world today as much as ever, but instead of haircloth and
halos they now wear"--

"Broadcloth and wide-brimmed hats," added Christie, looking up as if
she had already found a better St. Thomas than any the church ever
canonized.

He thanked her with a smile, and went on with a glance toward the
meadow.

"And knights go crusading as gallantly as ever against the giants
and the dragons, though you don't discover it, because, instead of
banner, lance, and shield they carry"--

"Bushel-baskets, spades, and sweet-flag for their mothers," put in
Christie again, as David came up the path with the loam he had been
digging.

Both began to laugh, and he joined in the merriment without knowing
why, as he put down his load, took off his hat, and shook hands with
his honored guest.

"What's the joke?" he asked, refreshing himself with the handful of
berries Christie offered him.

"Don't tell," she whispered, looking dismayed at the idea of letting
him know what she had said of him.

But Mr. Power answered tranquilly:

"We were talking about coins, and Christie was expressing her
opinion of one I showed her. The face and date she understands; but
the motto puzzles her, and she has not seen the reverse side yet, so
does not know its value. She will some day; and then she will agree
with me, I think, that it is sterling gold."

The emphasis on the last words enlightened David: his sunburnt cheek
reddened, but he only shook his head, saying: "She will find a brass
farthing I'm afraid, sir," and began to crumble a handful of loam
about the roots of a carnation that seemed to have sprung up by
chance at the foot of the apple-tree.

"How did that get there?" asked Christie, with sudden interest in
the flower.

"It dropped when I was setting out the others, took root, and looked
so pretty and comfortable that I left it. These waifs sometimes do
better than the most carefully tended ones: I only dig round them a
bit and leave them to sun and air."

Mr. Power looked at Christie with so much meaning in his face that
it was her turn to color now. But with feminine perversity she would
not own herself mistaken, and answered with eyes as full of meaning
as his own:

"I like the single ones best: double-carnations are so untidy, all
bursting out of the calyx as if the petals had quarrelled and could
not live together."

"The single ones are seldom perfect, and look poor and incomplete
with little scent or beauty," said unconscious David propping up the
thin-leaved flower, that looked like a pale solitary maiden, beside
the great crimson and white carnations near by, filling the air with
spicy odor.

"I suspect you will change your mind by and by, Christie, as your
taste improves, and you will learn to think the double ones the
handsomest," added Mr. Power, wondering in his benevolent heart if
he would ever be the gardener to mix the colors of the two human
plants before him.

"I must go," and David shouldered his basket as if he felt he might
be in the way.

"So must I, or they will be waiting for me at the hospital. Give me
a handful of flowers, David: they often do the poor souls more good
than my prayers or preaching."

Then they went away, and left Christie sitting in the strawberry
bed, thinking that David looked less than ever like a hero with his
blue shirt, rough straw hat, and big boots; also wondering if he
would ever show her his best side, and if she would like it when she
saw it.






CHAPTER XII.

CHRISTIE'S GALA.





ON the fourth of September, Christie woke up, saying to herself: "It
is my birthday, but no one knows it, so I shall get no presents. Ah,
well, I'm too old for that now, I suppose;" but she sighed as she
said it, for well she knew one never is too old to be remembered and
beloved.

Just then the door opened, and Mrs. Sterling entered, carrying what
looked very like a pile of snow-flakes in her arms. Laying this upon
the bed, she kissed Christie, saying with a tone and gesture that
made the words a benediction:

"A happy birthday, and God bless thee, my daughter!"

Before Christie could do more than hug both gift and giver, a great
bouquet came flying in at the open window, aimed with such skill
that it fell upon the bed, while David's voice called out from
below: "A happy birthday, Christie, and many of them!"

"How sweet, how kind of you, this is! I didn't dream you knew about
to-day, and never thought of such a beautiful surprise," cried
Christie, touched and charmed by this unexpected celebration.

"Thee mentioned it once long ago, and we remembered. They are very
humble gifts, my dear; but we could not let the day pass without
some token of the thanks we owe thee for these months of faithful
service and affectionate companionship."

Christie had no answer to this little address, and was about to cry
as the only adequate expression of her feelings, when a hearty
"Hear! Hear!" from below made her laugh, and call out:

"You conspirators! how dare you lay plots, and then exult over me
when I can't find words to thank you? I always did think you were a
set of angels, and now I'm quite sure of it."

"Thee may be right about Davy, but I am only a prudent old woman,
and have taken much pleasure in privately knitting this light wrap
to wear when thee sits in the porch, for the evenings will soon grow
chilly. My son did not know what to get, and finally decided that
flowers would suit thee best; so he made a bunch of those thee
loves, and would toss it in as if he was a boy."

"I like that way, and both my presents suit me exactly," said
Christie, wrapping the fleecy shawl about her, and admiring the
nosegay in which her quick eye saw all her favorites, even to a
plumy spray of the little wild asters which she loved so much.

"Now, child, I will step down, and see about breakfast. Take thy
time; for this is to be a holiday, and we mean to make it a happy
one if we can."

With that the old lady went away, and Christie soon followed,
looking very fresh and blithe as she ran down smiling behind her
great bouquet. David was in the porch, training up the
morning-glories that bloomed late and lovely in that sheltered spot.
He turned as she approached, held out his hand, and bent a little as
if he was moved to add a tenderer greeting. But he did not, only
held the hand she gave him for a moment, as he said with the
paternal expression unusually visible:

"I wished you many happy birthdays; and, if you go on getting
younger every year like this, you will surely have them."

It was the first compliment he had ever paid her, and she liked it,
though she shook her head as if disclaiming it, and answered
brightly:

"I used to think many years would be burdensome, and just before I
came here I felt as if I could not bear another one. But now I like
to live, and hope I shall a long, long time."

"I'm glad of that; and how do you mean to spend these long years of
yours?" asked David, brushing back the lock of hair that was always
falling into his eyes, as if he wanted to see more clearly the
hopeful face before him.

"In doing what your morning-glories do,--climb up as far and as fast
as I can before the frost comes," answered Christie, looking at the
pretty symbols she had chosen.

"You have got on a good way already then," began David, smiling at
her fancy.

"Oh no, I haven't!" she said quickly. "I'm only about half way up.
See here: I'll tell how it is;" and, pointing to the different parts
of the flowery wall, she added in her earnest way: "I've watched
these grow, and had many thoughts about them, as I sit sewing in the
porch. These variegated ones down low are my childish fancies; most
of them gone to seed you see. These lovely blue ones of all shades
are my girlish dreams and hopes and plans. Poor things! some are
dead, some torn by the wind, and only a few pale ones left quite
perfect. Here you observe they grow sombre with a tinge of purple;
that means pain and gloom, and there is where I was when I came
here. Now they turn from those sad colors to crimson, rose, and soft
pink. That's the happiness and health I found here. You and your
dear mother planted them, and you see how strong and bright they
are."

She lifted up her hand, and gathering one of the great rosy cups
offered it to him, as if it were brimful of the thanks she could not
utter. He comprehended, took it with a quiet "Thank you," and stood
looking at it for a moment, as if her little compliment pleased him
very much.

"And these?" he said presently, pointing to the delicate violet
bells that grew next the crimson ones.

The color deepened a shade in Christie's cheek, but she went on with
no other sign of shyness; for with David she always spoke out
frankly, because she could not help it.

"Those mean love to me, not passion: the deep red ones half hidden
under the leaves mean that. My violet flowers are the best and
purest love we can know: the sort that makes life beautiful and
lasts for ever. The white ones that come next are tinged with that
soft color here and there, and they mean holiness. I know there will
be love in heaven; so, whether I ever find it here or not, I am sure
I shall not miss it wholly."

Then, as if glad to leave the theme that never can be touched
without reverent emotion by a true woman, she added, looking up to
where a few spotless blossoms shone like silver in the light:

"Far away there in the sunshine are my highest aspirations. I cannot
reach them: but I can look up, and see their beauty; believe in
them, and try to follow where they lead; remember that frost comes
latest to those that bloom the highest; and keep my beautiful white
flowers as long as I can."

"The mush is ready; come to breakfast, children," called Mrs.
Sterling, as she crossed the hall with a teapot in her hand.

Christie's face fell, then she exclaimed laughing: "That's always
the way; I never take a poetic flight but in comes the mush, and
spoils it all."

"Not a bit; and that's where women are mistaken. Souls and bodies
should go on together; and you will find that a hearty breakfast
won't spoil the little hymn the morning-glories sung;" and David set
her a good example by eating two bowls of hasty-pudding and milk,
with the lovely flower in his button-hole.

"Now, what are we to do next?" asked Christie, when the usual
morning work was finished.

"In about ten minutes thee will see, I think," answered Mrs.
Sterling, glancing at the clock, and smiling at the bright expectant
look in the younger woman's eyes.

She did see; for in less than ten minutes the rumble of an omnibus
was heard, a sound of many voices, and then the whole Wilkins brood
came whooping down the lane. It was good to see Ma Wilkins jog
ponderously after in full state and festival array; her bonnet
trembling with bows, red roses all over her gown, and a parasol of
uncommon brilliancy brandished joyfully in her hand. It was better
still to see her hug Christie, when the latter emerged, flushed and
breathless, from the chaos of arms, legs, and chubby faces in which
she was lost for several tumultuous moments; and it was best of all
to see the good woman place her cherished "bunnit" in the middle of
the parlor table as a choice and lovely ornament, administer the
family pocket-handkerchief all round, and then settle down with a
hearty:

"Wal, now, Mis Sterlin', you've no idee how tickled we all was when
Mr. David came, and told us you was goin' to have a galy here
to-day. It was so kind of providential, for 'Lisha was invited out
to a day's pleasuring so I could leave jest as wal as not. The
childern's ben hankerin' to come the wust kind, and go plummin' as
they did last month, though I told 'em berries was gone weeks ago. I
reelly thought I'd never get 'em here whole, they trained so in that
bus. Wash would go on the step, and kep fallin' off; Gusty's hat
blew out a winder; them two bad boys tumbled round loose; and dear
little Victory set like a lady, only I found she'd got both feet in
the basket right atop of the birthday cake, I made a puppose for
Christie."

"It hasn't hurt it a bit; there was a cloth over it, and I like it
all the better for the marks of Totty's little feet, bless 'em!" and
Christie cuddled the culprit with one hand while she revealed the
damaged delicacy with the other, wondering inwardly what evil star
was always in the ascendant when Mrs. Wilkins made cake.

"Now, my dear, you jest go and have a good frolic with them
childern, I'm a goin' to git dinner, and you a goin' to play; so we
don't want to see no more of you till the bell rings," said Mrs.
Wilkins pinning up her gown, and "shooing" her brood out of the
room, which they entirely filled.

Catching up her hat Christie obeyed, feeling as much like a child as
any of the excited six. The revels that followed no pen can justly
record, for Goths and Vandals on the rampage but feebly describes
the youthf ul Wilkinses when their spirits effervesced after a
month's bottling up in close home quarters.

David locked the greenhouse door the instant he saw them; and
pervaded the premises generally like a most affable but very
watchful policeman, for the ravages those innocents committed much
afflicted him. Yet he never had the heart to say a word of reproof,
when he saw their raptures over dandelions, the relish with which
they devoured fruit, and the good it did the little souls and bodies
to enjoy unlimited liberty, green grass, and country air, even for a
day.

Christie usually got them into the big meadow as soon as possible,
and there let them gambol at will; while she sat on the broken bough
of an apple-tree, and watched her flock like an old-fashioned
shepherdess. To-day she did so; and when the children were happily
sailing boats, tearing to and fro like wild colts, or discovering
the rustic treasures Nurse Nature lays ready to gladden little
hearts and hands, Christie sat idly making a garland of green
brakes, and ruddy sumach leaves ripened before the early frosts had
come.

A FRIENDLY CHAT.

David saw her there, and, feeling that he might come off guard for a
time, went strolling down to lean upon the wall, and chat in the
friendly fashion that had naturally grown up between these
fellow-workers. She was waiting for the new supply of ferns little
Adelaide was getting for her by the wall; and while she waited she
sat resting her cheek upon her hand, and smiling to herself, as if
she saw some pleasant picture in the green grass at her feet.

"Now I wonder what she's thinking about," said David's voice close
by, and Christie straightway answered:

"Philip Fletcher."

"And who is he?" asked David, settling his elbow in a comfortable
niche between the mossy stones, so that he could "lean and loaf" at
his ease.

"The brother of the lady whose children I took care of;" and
Christie wished she had thought before she answered that first
question, for in telling her adventures at diiferent times she had
omitted all mention of this gentleman.

"Tell about him, as the children say: your experiences are always
interesting, and you look as if this man was uncommonly entertaining
in some way," said David, indolently inclined to be amused.

"Oh, dear no, not at all entertaining! invalids seldom are, and he
was sick and lazy, conceited and very cross sometimes." Christie's
heart rather smote her as she said this, remembering the last look
poor Fletcher gave her.

"A nice man to be sure; but I don't see any thing to smile about,"
persisted David, who liked reasons for things; a masculine trait
often very trying to feminine minds.

"I was thinking of a little quarrel we once had. He found out that I
had been an actress; for I basely did not mention that fact when I
took the place, and so got properly punished for my deceit. I
thought he'd tell his sister of course, so I did it myself, and
retired from the situation as much disgusted with Christie Devon as
you are."

"Perhaps I ought to be, but I don't find that I am. Do you know I
think that old Fletcher was a sneak?" and David looked as if he
would rather like to mention his opinion to that gentleman.

"He probably thought he was doing his duty to the children: few
people would approve of an actress for a teacher you know. He had
seen me play, and remembered it all of a sudden, and told me of it:
that was the way it came about," said Christie hastily, feeling that
she must get out of the scrape as soon as possible, or she would be
driven to tell every thing in justice to Mr. Fletcher.

"I should like to see you act."

"You a Quaker, and express such a worldly and dreadful wish?" cried
Christie, much amused, and very grateful that his thoughts had taken
a new direction.

"I'm not, and never have been. Mother married out of the sect, and,
though she keeps many of her old ways, always left me free to
believe what I chose. I wear drab because I like it, and say 'thee'
to her because she likes it, and it is pleasant to have a little
word all our own. I've been to theatres, but I don't care much for
them. Perhaps I should if I'd had Fletcher's luck in seeing you
play."

"You didn't lose much: I was not a good actress; though now and then
when I liked my part I did pretty well they said," answered
Christie, modestly.

"Why didn't you go back after the accident?" asked David, who had
heard that part of the story.

"I felt that it was bad for me, and so retired to private life."

"Do you ever regret it?"

"Sometimes when the restless fit is on me: but not so often now as I
used to do; for on the whole I'd rather be a woman than act a
queen."

"Good!" said David, and then added persuasively: "But you will play
for me some time: won't you? I've a curious desire to see you do
it."

"Perhaps I'll try," replied Christie, flattered by his interest, and
not unwilling to display her little talent.

"Who are you making that for? it's very pretty," asked David, who
seemed to be in an inquiring frame of mind that day.

"Any one who wants it. I only do it for the pleasure: I always liked
pretty things; but, since I have lived among flowers and natural
people, I seem to care more than ever for beauty of all kinds, and
love to make it if I can without stopping for any reason but the
satisfaction."

"'Tell them, dear, that if eyes were made for seeing, "'Then beauty
is its own excuse for being,'" observed David, who had a weakness
for poetry, and, finding she liked his sort, quoted to Christie
almost as freely as to himself.

"Exactly, so look at that and enjoy it," and she pointed to the
child standing knee-deep in graceful ferns, looking as if she grew
there, a living buttercup, with her buff frock off at one plump
shoulder and her bright hair shining in the sun.

Before David could express his admiration, the little picture was
spoilt; for Christie called out, "Come, Vic, bring me some more
pretties!" startling baby so that she lost her balance, and
disappeared with a muffled cry, leaving nothing to be seen but a
pair of small convulsive shoes, soles uppermost, among the brakes.
David took a leap, reversed Vic, and then let her compose her little
feelings by sticking bits of green in all the button-holes of his
coat, as he sat on the wall while she stood beside him in the safe
shelter of his arm.

"You are very like an Englishman," said Christie, after watching the
pair for a few minutes.

"How do you know?" asked David, looking surprised.

"There were several in our company, and I found them very much
alike. Blunt and honest, domestic and kind; hard to get at, but true
as steel when once won; not so brilliant and original as Americans,
perhaps, but more solid and steadfast. On the whole, I think them
the manliest men in the world," answered Christie, in the decided
way young people have of expressing their opinions.

"You speak as if you had known and studied a great variety of men,"
said David, feeling that he need not resent the comparison she had
made.

"I have, and it has done me good. Women who stand alone in the
world, and have their own way to make, have a better chance to know
men truly than those who sit safe at home and only see one side of
mankind. We lose something; but I think we gain a great deal that is
more valuable than admiration, flattery, and the superficial service
most men give to our sex. Some one says, 'Companionship teaches men
and women to know, judge, and treat one another justly.' I believe
it; for we who are compelled to be fellow workers with men
understand and value them more truly than many a belle who has a
dozen lovers sighing at her feet. I see their faults and follies;
but I also see so much to honor, love, and trust, that I feel as if
the world was full of brothers. Yes, as a general rule, men have
been kinder to me than women; and if I wanted a staunch friend I'd
choose a man, for they wear better than women, who ask too much, and
cannot see that friendship lasts longer if a little respect and
reserve go with the love and confidence."

Christie had spoken soberly, with no thought of flattery or effect;
for the memory of many kindnesses bestowed on her by many men, from
rough Joe Butterfield to Mr. Power, gave warmth and emphasis to her
words.

The man sitting on the wall appreciated the compliment to his sex,
and proved that he deserved his share of it by taking it exactly as
she meant it, and saying heartily:

"I like that, Christie, and wish more women thought and spoke as you
do."

"If they had had my experience they would, and not be ashamed of it.
I am so old now I can say these things and not be misjudged; for
even some sensible people think this honest sort of fellowship
impossible if not improper. I don't, and I never shall, so if I can
ever do any thing for you, David, forget that I am a woman and tell
me as freely as if I was a younger brother."

"I wish you were!"

"So do I; you'd make a splendid elder brother."

"No, a very bad one."

There was a sudden sharpness in David's voice that jarred on
Christie's ear and made her look up quickly. She only caught a
glimpse of his face, and saw that it was strangely troubled, as he
swung himself over the wall with little Vic on his arm and went
toward the house, saying abruptly:

"Baby 's sleepy: she must go in."

Christie sat some time longer, wondering what she had said to
disturb him, and when the bell rang went in still perplexed. But
David looked as usual, and the only trace of disquiet was an
occasional hasty shaking back of the troublesome lock, and a slight
knitting of the brows; two tokens, as she had learned to know, of
impatience or pain.

She was soon so absorbed in feeding the children, hungry and
clamorous as young birds for their food, that she forgot every thing
else. When dinner was done and cleared away, she devoted herself to
Mrs. Wilkins for an hour or two, while Mrs. Sterling took her nap,
the infants played riotously in the lane, and David was busy with
orders.

The arrival of Mr. Power drew every one to the porch to welcome him.
As he handed Christie a book, he asked with a significant smile:
"Have you found him yet?"

She glanced at the title of the new gift, read "Heroes and
Hero-worship," and answered merrily: "No, sir, but I'm looking
hard." "Success to your search," and Mr. Power turned to greet
David, who approached.

"Now, what shall we play?" asked Christie, as the children gathered
about her demanding to be amused.

George Washington suggested leap-frog, and the others added equally
impracticable requests; but Mrs. Wilkins settled the matter by
saying:

"Let's have some play-actin', Christie. That used to tickle the
children amazin'ly, and I was never tired of hearin' them pieces,
specially the solemn ones."

"Yes, yes! do the funny girl with the baby, and the old woman, and
the lady that took pison and had fits!" shouted the children,
charmed with the idea.

Christie felt ready for any thing just then, and gave them Tilly
Slowboy, Miss Miggs, and Mrs. Gummage, in her best style, while the
young folks rolled on the grass in ecstasies, and Mrs. Wilkins
laughed till she cried.

"Now a touch of tragedy!" said Mr. Power, who sat under the elm,
with David leaning on the back of his chair, both applauding
heartily.

"You insatiable people! do you expect me to give you low comedy and
heavy tragedy all alone? I'm equal to melodrama I think, and I'll
give you Miss St. Clair as Juliet, if you wait a moment."

Christie stepped into the house, and soon reappeared with a white
table-cloth draped about her, two dishevelled locks of hair on her
shoulders, and the vinegar cruet in her hand, that being the first
bottle she could find. She meant to burlesque the poison scene, and
began in the usual ranting way; but she soon forgot St. Clair in
poor Juliet, and did it as she had often longed to do it, with all
the power and passion she possessed. Very faulty was her rendering,
but the earnestness she put into it made it most effective to her
uncritical audience, who "brought down the house," when she fell
upon the grass with her best stage drop, and lay there getting her
breath after the mouthful of vinegar she had taken in the excitement
of the moment.

She was up again directly, and, inspired by this superb success, ran
in and presently reappeared as Lady Macbeth with Mrs. Wilkins's
scarlet shawl for royal robes, and the leafy chaplet of the morning
for a crown. She took the stage with some difficulty, for the
unevenness of the turf impaired the majesty of her tragic stride,
and fixing her eyes on an invisible Thane (who cut his part
shamefully, and spoke in the gruffest of gruff voices) she gave them
the dagger scene.

David as the orchestra, had been performing a drum solo on the back
of a chair with two of the corn-cobs Victoria had been building
houses with; but, when Lady Macbeth said, "Give me the daggers,"
Christie plucked the cobs suddenly from his hands, looking so
fiercely scornful, and lowering upon him so wrathfully with her
corked brows that he ejaculated an involuntary, "Bless me!" as he
stepped back quite daunted.

Being in the spirit of her part, Christie closed with the
sleep-walking scene, using the table-cloth again, while a towel
composed the tragic nightcap of her ladyship. This was an imitation,
and having a fine model and being a good mimic, she did well; for
the children sat staring with round eyes, the gentlemen watched the
woful face and gestures intently, and Mrs. Wilkins took a long
breath at the end, exclaiming: "I never did see the beat of that for
gastliness! My sister Clarissy used to walk in her sleep, but she
warn't half so kind of dreadful."

"If she had had the murder of a few friends on her conscience, I
dare say she would have been," said Christie, going in to make
herself tidy.

"Well, how do you like her as an actress?" asked Mr. Power of David,
who stood looking, as if he still saw and heard the haunted lady.

"Very much; but better as a woman. I'd no idea she had it in her,"
answered David, in a wonder-stricken tone.

"Plenty of tragedy and comedy in all of us," began Mr. Power; but
David said hastily:

"Yes, but few of us have passion and imagination enough to act
Shakspeare in that way."

"Very true: Christie herself could not give a whole character in
that style, and would not think of trying."

"I think she could; and I'd like to see her try it," said David,
much impressed by the dramatic ability which Christie's usual
quietude had most effectually hidden.

He was still thinking about it, when she came out again. Mr. Power
beckoned to her; saying, as she came and stood before him, flushed
and kindled with her efforts:

"Now, you must give me a bit from the 'Merchant of Venice.' Portia
is a favorite character of mine, and I want to see if you can do any
thing with it."

"No, sir, I cannot. I used to study it, but it was too sober to suit
me. I am not a judicial woman, so I gave it up," answered Christie,
much flattered by his request, and amused at the respectful way in
which David looked at her. Then, as if it just occurred to her, she
added, "I remember one little speech that I can say to you, sir,
with great truth, and I will, since you like that play."

Still standing before him, she bent her head a little, and with a
graceful gesture of the hands, as if offering something, she
delivered with heartfelt emphasis the first part of Portia's pretty
speech to her fortunate suitor:

    "You see me, Lord Bassanio, where I stand,
    Such as I am: though, for myself alone, 
    I would not be ambitious in my wish, 
    To wish myself much better; yet for you, 
    I would be trebled twenty times myself;
    A thousand times more fair, ten thousand times more rich; 
    That, only to stand high in your account,
    I might in virtues, beauties, livings, friends,
    Exceed account: but the full sum of me
    Is sum of something; which, to term in gross,
    Is an unlesson'd girl, unschool'd, unpractis'd:--
    Happy in this, she is not yet so old
    But she may learn; happier than this,
    She is not bred so dull but she can learn;
    Happiest of all, is that her willing spirit
    Commits itself to yours to be directed, 
    As from her lord, her governor, her king."

David applauded vigorously; but Mr. Power rose silently, looking
both touched and surprised; and, drawing Christie's hand through his
arm, led her away into the garden for one of the quiet talks that
were so much to her.

When they returned, the Wilkinses were preparing to depart; and,
after repeated leave-takings, finally got under way, were packed
into the omnibus, and rumbled off with hats, hands, and
handkerchiefs waving from every window. Mr. Power soon followed, and
peace returned to the little house in the lane.

Later in the evening, when Mrs. Sterling was engaged with a
neighbor, who had come to confide some affliction to the good lady,
Christie went into the porch, and found David sitting on the step,
enjoying the mellow moonlight and the balmy air. As he did not
speak, she sat down silently, folded her hands in her lap, and began
to enjoy the beauty of the night in her own way. Presently she
became conscious that David's eyes had turned from the moon to her
own face. He sat in the shade, she in the light, and he was looking
at her with the new expression which amused her.

"Well, what is it? You look as if you never saw me before," she
said, smiling.

"I feel as if I never had," he answered, still regarding her as if
she had been a picture.

"What do I look like?"

"A peaceful, pious nun, just now."

"Oh! that is owing to my pretty shawl. I put it on in honor of the
day, though it is a trifle warm, I confess." And Christie stroked
the soft folds about her shoulders, and settled the corner that lay
lightly on her hair. "I do feel peaceful to-night, but not pious. I
am afraid I never shall do that," she added soberly.

"Why not?"

"Well, it does not seem to be my nature, and I don't know how to
change it. I want something to keep me steady, but I can't find it.
So I whiffle about this way and that, and sometimes think I am a
most degenerate creature."

"That is only human nature, so don't be troubled. We are all
compasses pointing due north. We get shaken often, and the needle
varies in spite of us; but the minute we are quiet, it points right,
and we have only to follow it."

"The keeping quiet is just what I cannot do. Tour mother shows me
how lovely it is, and I try to imitate it; but this restless soul of
mine will ask questions and doubt and fear, and worry me in many
ways. What shall I do to keep it still?" asked Christie, smiling,
yet earnest.

"Let it alone: you cannot force these things, and the best way is to
wait till the attraction is strong enough to keep the needle steady.
Some people get their ballast slowly, some don't need much, and some
have to work hard for theirs."

"Did you?" asked Christie; for David's voice fell a little, as he
uttered the last words.

"I have not got much yet."

"I think you have. Why, David, you are always cheerful and
contented, good and generous. If that is not true piety, what is?"

"You are very much deceived, and I am sorry for it," said David,
with the impatient gesture of the head, and a troubled look.

"Prove it!" And Christie looked at him with such sincere respect and
regard, that his honest nature would not let him accept it, though
it gratified him much.

He made no answer for a minute. Then he said slowly, as if feeling a
modest man's hesitation to speak of himself, yet urged to it by some
irresistible impulse:

"I will prove it if you won't mind the unavoidable egotism; for I
cannot let you think me so much better than I am. Outwardly I seem
to you 'cheerful, contented, generous, and good.' In reality I am
sad, dissatisfied, bad, and selfish: see if I'm not. I often tire of
this quiet life, hate my work, and long to break away, and follow my
own wild and wilful impulses, no matter where they lead. Nothing
keeps me at such times but my mother and God's patience."

David began quietly; but the latter part of this confession was made
with a sudden impetuosity that startled Christie, so utterly unlike
his usual self-control was it. She could only look at him with the
surprise she felt. His face was in the shadow; but she saw that it
was flushed, his eyes excited, and in his voice she heard an
undertone that made it sternly self-accusing.

"I am not a hypocrite," he went on rapidly, as if driven to speak in
spite of himself. "I try to be what I seem, but it is too hard
sometimes and I despair. Especially hard is it to feel that I have
learned to feign happiness so well that others are entirely
deceived. Mr. Power and mother know me as I am: other friends I have
not, unless you will let me call you one. Whether you do or not
after this, I respect you too much to let you delude yourself about
my virtues, so I tell you the truth and abide the consequences."

He looked up at her as he paused, with a curious mixture of pride
and humility in his face, and squared his broad shoulders as if he
had thrown off a burden that had much oppressed him.

Christie offered him her hand, saying in a tone that did his heart
good: "The consequences are that I respect, admire, and trust you
more than ever, and feel proud to be your friend."

David gave the hand a strong and grateful pressure, said, "Thank
you," in a moved tone, and then leaned back into the shadow, as if
trying to recover from this unusual burst of confidence, won from
him by the soft magic of time, place, and companionship.

Fearing he would regret the glimpse he had given her, and anxious to
show how much she liked it, Christie talked on to give him time to
regain composure.

"I always thought in reading the lives of saints or good men of any
time, that their struggles were the most interesting and helpful
things recorded. Human imperfection only seems to make real piety
more possible, and to me more beautiful; for where others have
conquered I can conquer, having suffered as they suffer, and seen
their hard-won success. That is the sort of religion I want;
something to hold by, live in, and enjoy, if I can only get it."

"I know you will." He said it heartily, and seemed quite calm again;
so Christie obeyed the instinct which told her that questions would
be good for David, and that he was in the mood for answering them.
"May I ask you something," she began a little timidly. "Any thing,
Christie," he answered instantly. "That is a rash promise: I am a
woman, and therefore curious; what shall you do if I take advantage
of the privilege?" "Try and see."

"I will be discreet, and only ask one thing," she replied, charmed
with her success. "You said just now that you had learned to feign
happiness. I wish you would tell me how you do it, for it is such an
excellent imitation I shall be quite content with it till I can
learn the genuine thing."

David fingered the troublesome forelock thoughtfully for a moment,
then said, with something of the former impetuosity coming back into
his voice and manner:

"I will tell you all about it; that's the best way: I know I shall
some day because I can't help it; so I may as well have done with it
now, since I have begun. It is not interesting, mind you,--only a
grim little history of one man's fight with the world, the flesh,
and the devil: will you have it?"

"Oh, yes!" answered Christie, so eagerly that David laughed, in
spite of the bitter memories stirring at his heart.

"So like a woman, always ready to hear and forgive sinners," he
said, then took a long breath, and added rapidly:

"I'll put it in as few words as possible and much good may it do
you. Some years ago I was desperately miserable; never mind why: I
dare say I shall tell you all about it some day if I go on at this
rate. Well, being miserable, as I say, every thing looked black and
bad to me: I hated all men, distrusted all women, doubted the
existence of God, and was a forlorn wretch generally. Why I did not
go to the devil I can't say: I did start once or twice; but the
thought of that dear old woman in there sitting all alone and
waiting for me dragged me back, and kept me here till the first
recklessness was over. People talk about duty being sweet; I have
not found it so, but there it was: I should have been a brute to
shirk it; so I took it up, and held on desperately till it grew
bearable."

"It has grovn sweet now, David, I am sure," said Christie, very low.

"No, not yet," he answered with the stern honesty that would not let
him deceive himself or others, cost what it might to be true. "There
is a certain solid satisfaction in it that I did not use to find. It
is not a mere dogged persistence now, as it once was, and that is a
step towards loving it perhaps."

He spoke half to himself, and sat leaning his head on both hands
propped on his knees, looking down as if the weight of the old
trouble bent his shoulders again.

"What more, David?" said Christie.

"Only this. When I found I had got to live, and live manfully, I
said to myself, 'I must have help or I cannot do it.' To no living
soul could I tell my grief, not even to my mother, for she had her
own to bear: no human being could help me, yet I must have help or
give up shamefully. Then I did what others do when all else fails to
sustain them; I turned to God: not humbly, not devoutly or
trustfully, but doubtfully, bitterly, and rebelliously; for I said
in my despairing heart, 'If there is a God, let Him help me, and I
will believe.' He did help me, and I kept my word."

"Oh, David, how?" whispered Christie after a moment's silence, for
the last words were solemn in their earnestness.

"The help did not come at once. No miracle answered me, and I
thought my cry had not been heard. But it had, and slowly something
like submission came to me. It was not cheerful nor pious: it was
only a dumb, sad sort of patience without hope or faith. It was
better than desperation; so I accepted it, and bore the inevitable
as well as I could. Presently, courage seemed to spring up again: I
was ashamed to be beaten in the first battle, and some sort of blind
instinct made me long to break away from the past and begin again.
My father was dead; mother left all to me, and followed where I led.
I sold the old place, bought this, and, shutting out the world as
much as I could, I fell to work as if my life depended on it. That
was five or six years ago: and for a long time I delved away without
interest or pleasure, merely as a safety-valve for my energies, and
a means of living; for I gave up all my earlier hopes and plans when
the trouble came.

"I did not love my work; but it was good for me, and helped cure my
sick soul. I never guessed why I felt better, but dug on with
indifference first, then felt pride in my garden, then interest in
the plants I tended, and by and by I saw what they had done for me,
and loved them like true friends."

A broad woodbine leaf had been fluttering against David's head, as
he leaned on the slender pillar of the porch where it grew. Now, as
if involuntarily, he laid his cheek against it with a caressing
gesture, and sat looking over the garden lying dewy and still in the
moonlight, with the grateful look of a man who has learned the
healing miracles of Nature and how near she is to God.

"Mr. Power helped you: didn't he?" said Christie, longing to hear
more.

"So much! I never can tell you what he was to me, nor how I thank
him. To him, and to my work I owe the little I have won in the way
of strength and comfort after years of effort. I see now the
compensation that comes out of trouble, the lovely possibilities
that exist for all of us, and the infinite patience of God, which is
to me one of the greatest of His divine attributes. I have only got
so far, but things grow easier as one goes on; and if I keep tugging
I may yet be the cheerful, contented man I seem. That is all,
Christie, and a longer story than I meant to tell."

"Not long enough: some time you will tell me more perhaps, since you
have once begun. It seems quite natural now, and I am so pleased and
honored by your confidence. But I cannot help wondering what made
you do it all at once," said Christie presently, after they had
listened to a whippoorwill, and watched the flight of a downy owl.

"I do not think I quite know myself, unless it was because I have
been on my good behavior since you came, and, being a humbug, as I
tell you, was forced to unmask in spite of myself. There are limits
to human endurance, and the proudest man longs to unpack his woes
before a sympathizing friend now and then. I have been longing to do
this for some time; but I never like to disturb mother's peace, or
take Mr. Power from those who need him more. So to-day, when you so
sweetly offered to help me if you could, it quite went to my heart,
and seemed so friendly and comfortable, I could not resist trying it
tonight, when you began about my imaginary virtues. That is the
truth, I believe: now, what shall we do about it?"

"Just go on, and do it again whenever you feel like it. I know what
loneliness is, and how telling worries often cures them. I meant
every word I said this morning, and will prove it by doing any thing
in the world I can for you. Believe this, and let me be your
friend."

They had risen, as a stir within told them the guest was going; and
as Christie spoke she was looking up with the moonlight full upon
her face.

If there had been any hidden purpose in her mind, any false
sentiment, or trace of coquetry in her manner, it would have spoiled
that hearty little speech of hers.

But in her heart was nothing but a sincere desire to prove gratitude
and offer sympathy; in her manner the gentle frankness of a woman
speaking to a brother; and in her face the earnestness of one who
felt the value of friendship, and did not ask or give it lightly.

"I will," was David's emphatic answer, and then, as if to seal the
bargain, he stooped down, and gravely kissed her on the forehead.

Christie was a little startled, but neither offended nor confused;
for there was no love in that quiet kiss,--only respect, affection,
and much gratitude; an involuntary demonstration from the lonely man
to the true-hearted woman who had dared to come and comfort him.

Out trotted neighbor Miller, and that was the end of confidences in
the porch; but David played melodiously on his flute that night, and
Christie fell asleep saying happily to herself:

"Now we are all right, friends for ever, and every thing will go
beautifully."






CHAPTER XIII.

WAKING UP.





EVERY thing did "go beautifully" for a time; so much so, that
Christie began to think she really had "got religion." A delightful
peace pervaded her soul, a new interest made the dullest task
agreeable, and life grew so inexpressibly sweet that she felt as if
she could forgive all her enemies, love her friends more than ever,
and do any thing great, good, or glorious.

She had known such moods before, but they had never lasted long, and
were not so intense as this; therefore, she was sure some blessed
power had come to uphold and cheer her. She sang like a lark as she
swept and dusted; thought high and happy thoughts among the pots and
kettles, and, when she sat sewing, smiled unconsciously as if some
deep satisfaction made sunshine from within. Heart and soul seemed
to wake up and rejoice as naturally and beautifully as flowers in
the spring. A soft brightness shone in her eyes, a fuller tone
sounded in her voice, and her face grew young and blooming with the
happiness that transfigures all it touches.

"Christie 's growing handsome," David would say to his mother, as if
she was a flower in which he took pride.

"Thee is a good gardener, Davy," the old lady would reply, and when
he was busy would watch him with a tender sort of anxiety, as if to
discover a like change in him.

But no alteration appeared, except more cheerfulness and less
silence; for now there was no need to hide his real self, and all
the social virtues in him came out delightfully after their long
solitude.

In her present uplifted state, Christie could no more help regarding
David as a martyr and admiring him for it, than she could help
mixing sentiment with her sympathy. By the light of the late
confessions, his life and character looked very different to her
now. His apparent contentment was resignation; his cheerfulness, a
manly contempt for complaint; his reserve, the modest reticence of
one who, having done a hard duty well, desires no praise for it.
Like all enthusiastic persons, Christie had a hearty admiration for
self-sacrifice and self-control; and, while she learned to see
David's virtues, she also exaggerated them, and could not do enough
to show the daily increasing esteem and respect she felt for him,
and to atone for the injustice she once did him.

She grubbed in the garden and green-house, and learned hard
botanical names that she might be able to talk intelligently upon
subjects that interested her comrade. Then, as autumn ended
out-of-door work, she tried to make home more comfortable and
attractive than ever.

David's room was her especial care; for now to her there was
something pathetic in the place and its poor furnishing. He had
fought many a silent battle there; won many a secret victory; and
tried to cheer his solitude with the best thoughts the minds of the
bravest, wisest men could give him.

She did not smile at the dilapidated idols now, but touched them
tenderly, and let no dust obscure their well-beloved faces. She set
the books in order daily, taking many a sip of refreshment from them
by the way, and respectfully regarded those in unknown tongues, full
of admiration for David's learning. She covered the irruptive sofa
neatly; saw that the little vase was always clear and freshly
filled; cared for the nursery in the gable-window; and preserved an
exquisite neatness everywhere, which delighted the soul of the
room's order-loving occupant.

She also--alas, for romance!--cooked the dishes David loved, and
liked to see him enjoy them with the appetite which once had shocked
her so. She watched over his buttons with a vigilance that would
have softened the heart of the crustiest bachelor: she even gave
herself the complexion of a lemon by wearing blue, because David
liked the pretty contrast with his mother's drabs.

After recording that last fact, it is unnecessary to explain what
was the matter with Christie. She honestly thought she had got
religion; but it was piety's twin-sister, who produced this
wonderful revival in her soul; and though she began in all good
faith she presently discovered that she was

    "Not the first maiden
    Who came but for friendship,
    And took away love."

After the birthnight confessions, David found it easier to go on
with the humdrum life he had chosen from a sense of duty; for now he
felt as if he had not only a fellow-worker, but a comrade and friend
who understood, sympathized with, and encouraged him by an interest
and good-will inexpressibly comfortable and inspiring. Nothing
disturbed the charm of the new league in those early days; for
Christie was thoroughly simple and sincere, and did her womanly work
with no thought of reward or love or admiration.

David saw this, and felt it more attractive than any gift of beauty
or fascination of manner would have been. He had no desire to be a
lover, having forbidden himself that hope; but he found it so easy
and pleasant to be a friend that he reproached himself for not
trying it before; and explained his neglect by the fact that
Christie was not an ordinary woman, since none of all the many he
had known and helped, had ever been any thing to him but objects of
pity and protection.

Mrs. Sterling saw these changes with her wise, motherly eyes, but
said nothing; for she influenced others by the silent power of
character. Speaking little, and unusually gifted with the meditative
habits of age, she seemed to live in a more peaceful world than
this. As George MacDonald somewhere says, "Her soul seemed to sit
apart in a sunny little room, safe from dust and noise, serenely
regarding passers-by through the clear muslin curtains of her
window."

Yet, she was neither cold nor careless, stern nor selfish, but ready
to share all the joys and sorrows of those about her; and when
advice was asked she gave it gladly. Christie had won her heart long
ago, and now was as devoted as a daughter to her; lightening her
cares so skilfully that many of them slipped naturally on to the
young shoulders, and left the old lady much time for rest, or the
lighter tasks fitted for feeble hands. Christie often called her
"Mother," and felt herself rewarded for the hardest, humblest job
she ever did when the sweet old voice said gratefully, "I thank
thee, daughter."

Things were in this prosperous, not to say paradisiacal, state, when
one member of the family began to make discoveries of an alarming
nature. The first was that the Sunday pilgrimages to church were
seasons of great refreshment to soul and body when David went also,
and utter failures if he did not. Next, that the restless ambitions
of all sorts were quite gone; for now Christie's mission seemed to
be sitting in a quiet corner and making shirts in the most exquisite
manner, while thinking about--well, say botany, or any kindred
subject. Thirdly, that home was woman's sphere after all, and the
perfect roasting of beef, brewing of tea, and concocting of
delectable puddings, an end worth living for if masculine
commendation rewarded the labor.

Fourthly, and worst of all, she discovered that she was not
satisfied with half confidences, and quite pined to know all about
"David's trouble." The little needle-book with the faded "Letty" on
it haunted her; and when, after a pleasant evening below, she heard
him pace his room for hours, or play melancholy airs upon the flute,
she was jealous of that unknown woman who had such power to disturb
his peace, and felt a strong desire to smash the musical confidante
into whose responsive breast he poured his woe.

At this point Christie paused; and, after evading any explanation of
these phenomena in the most skilful manner for a time, suddenly
faced the fact, saying to herself with great candor and decision:

"I know what all this means: I'm beginning to like David more than
is good for me. I see this clearly, and won't dodge any longer, but
put a stop to it at once. Of course I can if I choose, and now is
the time to do it; for I understand myself perfectly, and if I reach
a certain point it is all over with me. That point I will not reach:
David's heart is in that Letty's grave, and he only cares for me as
a friend. I promised to be one to him, and I'll keep my word like an
honest woman. It may not be easy; but all the sacrifices shall not
be his, and I won't be a fool."

With praiseworthy resolution Christie set about the reformation
without delay; not an easy task and one that taxed all her wit and
wisdom to execute without betraying the motive for it. She decided
that Mrs. Sterling must not be left alone on Sunday, so the young
people took turns to go to church, and such dismal trips Christie
had never known; for all her Sundays were bad weather, and Mr. Power
seemed to hit on unusually uninteresting texts.

She talked while she sewed instead of indulging in dangerous
thoughts, and Mrs. Sterling was surprised and entertained by this
new loquacity. In the evening she read and studied with a diligence
that amazed and rather disgusted David; since she kept all her
lively chat for his mother, and pored over her books when he wanted
her for other things.

"I'm trying to brighten up my wits," she said, and went on trying to
stifle her affections.

But though "the absurdity," as she called the new revelation, was
stopped externally, it continued with redoubled vigor internally.
Each night she said, "this must be conquered," yet each morning it
rose fair and strong to make the light and beauty of her day, and
conquer her again. She did her best and bravest, but was forced at
last to own that she could not "put a stop to it," because she had
already reached the point where "it was all over with her."

Just at this critical moment an event occurred which completed
Christie's defeat, and made her feel that her only safety lay in
flight.

One evening she sat studying ferns, and heroically saying over and
over, "Andiantum, Aspidium, and Asplenium, Trichomanes," while
longing to go and talk delightfully to David, who sat musing by the
fire.

"I can't go on so much longer," she thought despairingly.
"Polypodium aureum, a native of Florida," is all very interesting in
its place; but it doesn't help me to gain self-control a bit, and I
shall disgrace myself if something doesn't happen very soon."

Something did happen almost instantly; for as she shut the cover
sharply on the poor Polypods, a knock was heard, and before David
could answer it the door flew open and a girl ran in. Straight to
him she went, and clinging to his arm said excitedly: "Oh, do take
care of me: I 've run away again!"

"Why, Kitty, what's the matter now?" asked David, putting back her
hood, and looking down at her with the paternal expression Christie
had not seen for a long time, and missed very much.

"Father found me, and took me home, and wanted me to marry a
dreadful man, and I wouldn't, so I ran away to you. He didn't know I
came here before, and I'm safe if you'll let me stay," cried Kitty,
still clinging and imploring.

"Of course I will, and glad to see you back again," answered David,
adding pitifully, as he put her in his easy-chair, took her cloak
and hood off and stood stroking her curly hair: "Poor little girl!
it is hard to have to run away so much: isn't it?"

"Not if I come here; it's so pleasant I'd like to stay all my life,"
and Kitty took a long breath, as if her troubles were over now.
"Who's that?" she asked suddenly, as her eye fell on Christie, who
sat watching her with interest:

"That is our good friend Miss Devon. She came to take your place,
and we got so fond of her we could not let her go," answered David
with a gesture of introduction, quite unconscious that his position
just then was about as safe and pleasant as that of a man between a
lighted candle and an open powder barrel.

The two young women nodded to each other, took a swift survey, and
made up their minds before David had poked the fire. Christie saw a
pretty face with rosy cheeks, blue eyes, and brown rings of hair
lying on the smooth, low forehead; a young face, but not childlike,
for it was conscious of its own prettiness, and betrayed the fact by
little airs and graces that reminded one of a coquettish kitten.
Short and slender, she looked more youthful than she was; while a
gay dress, with gilt ear-rings, locket at the throat, and a cherry
ribbon in her hair made her a bright little figure in that plain
room.

Christie suddenly felt as if ten years had been added to her age, as
she eyed the new-comer, who leaned back in the great chair talking
to David, who stood on the rug, evidently finding it pleasanter to
look at the vivacious face before him than at the fire.

"Just the pretty, lively sort of girl sensible men often marry, and
then discover how silly they are," thought Christie, taking up her
work and assuming an indifferent air.

"She's a lady and nice looking, but I know I shan't like her," was
Kitty's decision, as she turned away and devoted herself to David,
hoping he would perceive how much she had improved and admire her
accordingly.

"So you don't want to marry this Miles because he is not handsome.
You'd better think again before you make up your mind. He is
respectable, well off, and fond of you, it seems. Why not try it,
Kitty? You need some one to take care of you sadly," David said,
when her story had been told.

"If father plagues me much I may take the man; but I'd rather have
the other one if he wasn't poor," answered Kitty with a side-long
glance of the blue eyes, and a conscious smile on the red lips.

"Oh, there's another lover, is there?"

"Lots of 'em."

David laughed and looked at Christie as if inviting her to be amused
with the freaks and prattle of a child. But Christie sewed away
without a sign of interest.

"That won't do, Kitty: you are too young for much of such nonsense.
I shall keep you here a while, and see if we can't settle matters
both wisely and pleasantly," he said, shaking his head as sagely as
a grandfather.

"I'm sure I wish you would: I love to stay here, you are always so
good to me. I'm in no hurry to be married; and you won't make me:
will you?"

Kitty rose as she spoke, and stood before him with a beseeching
little gesture, and a confiding air quite captivating to behold.

Christie was suddenly seized with a strong desire to shake the girl
and call her an "artful little hussy," but crushed this
unaccountable impulse, and hemmed a pocket-handkerchief with
reckless rapidity, while she stole covert glances at the tableau by
the fire.

David put his finger under Kitty's round chin, and lifting her face
looked into it, trying to discover if she really cared for this
suitor who seemed so providentially provided for her. Kitty smiled
and blushed, and dimpled under that grave look so prettily that it
soon changed, and David let her go, saying indulgently:

"You shall not be troubled, for you are only a child after all. Let
the lovers go, and stay and play with me, for I've been rather
lonely lately."

"That's a reproach for me," thought Christie, longing to cry out:
"No, no; send the girl away and let me be all in all to you." But
she only turned up the lamp and pretended to be looking for a spool,
while her heart ached and her eyes were too dim for seeing.

"I'm too old to play, but I'll stay and tease you as I used to, if
Miles don't come and carry me off as he said he would," answered
Kitty, with a toss of the head which showed she was not so childlike
as David fancied. But the next minute she was sitting on a stool at
his feet petting the cat, while she told her adventures with girlish
volubility.

Christie could not bear to sit and look on any longer, so she left
the room, saying she would see if Mrs. Sterling wanted any thing,
for the old lady kept her room with a touch of rheumatism. As she
shut the door, Christie heard Kitty say softly:

"Now we'll be comfortable as we used to be: won't we?"

What David answered Christie did not stay to hear, but went into the
kitchen, and had her first pang of jealousy out alone, while she
beat up the buckwheats for breakfast with an energy that made them
miracles of lightness on the morrow.

When she told Mrs. Sterling of the new arrival, the placid little
lady gave a cluck of regret and said with unusual emphasis:

"I'm sorry for it."

"Why?" asked Christie, feeling as if she could embrace the speaker
for the words.

"She is a giddy little thing, and much care to whoever befriends
her." Mrs. Sterling would say no more, but, as Christie bade her
good-night, she held her hand, saying with a kiss:

"No one will take thy place with me, my daughter."

For a week Christie suffered constant pin-pricks of jealousy,
despising herself all the time, and trying to be friendly with the
disturber of her peace. As if prompted by an evil spirit, Kitty
unconsciously tried and tormented her from morning to night, and no
one saw or guessed it unless Mrs. Sterling's motherly heart divined
the truth. David seemed to enjoy the girl's lively chat, her openly
expressed affection, and the fresh young face that always brightened
when he came.

Presently, however, Christie saw a change in him, and suspected that
he had discovered that Kitty was a child no longer, but a young girl
with her head full of love and lovers. The blue eyes grew shy, the
pretty face grew eloquent with blushes now and then, as he looked at
it, and the lively tongue faltered sometimes in speaking to him. A
thousand little coquetries were played off for his benefit, and
frequent appeals for advice in her heart affairs kept tender
subjects uppermost in their conversations.

At first all this seemed to amuse David as much as if Kitty were a
small child playing at sweethearts; but soon his manner changed,
growing respectful, and a little cool when Kitty was most confiding.
He no longer laughed about Miles, stopped calling her "little girl,"
and dropped his paternal ways as he had done with Christie. By many
indescribable but significant signs he showed that he considered
Kitty a woman now and treated her as such, being all the more
scrupulous in the respect he paid her, because she was so
unprotected, and so wanting in the natural dignity and refinement
which are a woman's best protection.

Christie admired him for this, but saw in it the beginning of a
tenderer feeling than pity, and felt each day that she was one too
many now.

Kitty was puzzled and piqued by these changes, and being a born
flirt tried all her powers on David, veiled under guileless
girlishness. She was very pretty, very charming, and at times most
lovable and sweet when all that was best in her shallow little heart
was touched. But it was evident to all that her early acquaintance
with the hard and sordid side of life had brushed the bloom from her
nature, and filled her mind with thoughts and feelings unfitted to
her years.

Mrs. Sterling was very kind to her, but never treated her as she did
Christie; and though not a word was spoken between them the elder
women knew that they quite agreed in their opinion of Kitty. She
evidently was rather afraid of the old lady, who said so little and
saw so much. Christie also she shunned without appearing to do so,
and when alone with her put on airs that half amused, half irritated
the other.

"David is my friend, and I don't care for any one else," her manner
said as plainly as words; and to him she devoted herself so
entirely, and apparently so successfully, that Christie made up her
mind he had at last begun to forget his Letty, and think of filling
the void her loss had left.

A few words which she accidentally overheard confirmed this idea,
and showed her what she must do. As she came quietly in one evening
from a stroll in the lane, and stood taking off cloak and hood, she
caught a glimpse through the half-open parlor door of David pacing
to and fro with a curiously excited expression on his face, and
heard Mrs. Sterling say with unusual warmth:

"Thee is too hard upon thyself, Davy. Forget the past and be happy
as other men are. Thee has atoned for thy fault long ago, so let me
see thee at peace before I die, my son."

"Not yet, mother, not yet. I have no right to hope or ask for any
woman's love till I am worthier of it," answered David in a tone
that thrilled Christie's heart: it was so full of love and longing.

Here Kitty came running in from the green-house with her hands full
of flowers, and passing Christie, who was fumbling among the cloaks
in the passage, she went to show David some new blossom.

He had no time to alter the expression of his face for its usual
grave serenity: Kitty saw the change at once, and spoke of it with
her accustomed want of tact.

"How handsome you look! What are you thinking about?" she said,
gazing up at him with her own eyes bright with wonder, and her
cheeks glowing with the delicate carmine of the frosty air.

"I am thinking that you look more like a rose than ever," answered
David turning her attention from himself by a compliment, and
beginning to admire the flowers, still with that flushed and kindled
look on his own face.

Christie crept upstairs, and, sitting in the dark, decided with the
firmness of despair to go away, lest she should betray the secret
that possessed her, a dead hope now, but still too dear to be
concealed.

"Mr. Power told me to come to him when I got tired of this. I'll say
I am tired and try something else, no matter what: I can bear any
thing, but to stand quietly by and see David marry that
empty-hearted girl, who dares to show that she desires to win him.
Out of sight of all this, I can conquer my love, at least hide it;
but if I stay I know I shall betray myself in some bitter minute,
and I'd rather die than do that."

Armed with this resolution, Christie went the next day to Mr. Power,
and simply said: "I am not needed at the Sterlings any more: can you
give me other work to do?"

Mr. Power's keen eye searched her face for a moment, as if to
discover the real motive for her wish. But Christie had nerved
herself to bear that look, and showed no sign of her real trouble,
unless the set expression of her lips, and the unnatural steadiness
of her eyes betrayed it to that experienced reader of human hearts.

Whatever he suspected or saw, Mr. Power kept to himself, and
answered in his cordial way:

"Well, I've been expecting you would tire of that quiet life, and
have plenty of work ready for you. One of my good Dorcases is tired
out and must rest; so you shall take her place and visit my poor,
report their needs, and supply them as fast as we can. Does that
suit you?"

"Entirely, sir. Where shall I live?" asked Christie, with an
expression of relief that said much.

"Here for the present. I want a secretary to put my papers in order,
write some of my letters, and do a thousand things to help a busy
man. My old housekeeper likes you, and will let you take a duster
now and then if you don't find enough other work to do. When can you
come?"

Christie answered with a long breath of satisfaction: "To-morrow, if
you like."

"I do: can you be spared so soon?"

"Oh, yes! they don't want me now at all, or I would not leave them.
Kitty can take my place: she needs protection more than I; and there
is not room for two." She checked herself there, conscious that a
tone of bitterness had crept into her voice. Then quite steadily she
added:

"Will you be kind enough to write, and ask Mrs. Sterling if she can
spare me? I shall find it hard to tell her myself, for I fear she
may think me ungrateful after all her kindness."

"No: she is used to parting with those whom she has helped, and is
always glad to set them on their way toward better things. I will
write to-morrow, and you can come whenever you will, sure of a
welcome, my child."

Something in the tone of those last words, and the pressure of the
strong, kind hand, touched Christie's sore heart, and made it
impossible for her to hide the truth entirely.

She only said: "Thank you, sir. I shall be very glad to come;" but
her eyes were full, and she held his hand an instant, as if she
clung to it sure of succor and support.

Then she went home so pale and quiet; so helpful, patient, and
affectionate, that Mrs. Sterling watched her anxiously; David looked
amazed; and, even self-absorbed Kitty saw the change, and was
touched by it.

On the morrow, Mr. Power's note came, and Christie fled upstairs
while it was read and discussed.

"If I get through this parting without disgracing myself, I don't
care what happens to me afterward," she said; and, in order that she
might do so, she assumed a cheerful air, and determined to depart
with all the honors of war, if she died in the attempt.

So, when Mrs. Sterling called her down, she went humming into the
parlor, smiled as she read the note silently given her, and then
said with an effort greater than any she had ever made in her most
arduous part on the stage:

"Yes, I did say to Mr. Power that I thought I'd better be moving on.
I'm a restless creature as you know; and, now that you don't need
me, I've a fancy to see more of the world. If you want me back again
in the spring, I'll come."

"I shall want thee, my dear, but will not say a word to keep thee
now, for thee does need a change, and Mr. Power can give thee work
better suited to thy taste than any here. We shall see thee
sometimes, and spring will make thee long for the flowers, I hope,"
was Mrs. Sterling's answer, as Christie gave back the note at the
end of her difficult speech.

"Don't think me ungrateful. I have been very happy here, and never
shall forget how motherly kind you have been to me. You will believe
this and love me still, though I go away and leave you for a little
while?" prayed Christie, with a face full of treacherous emotion.

Mrs. Sterling laid her hand on Christie's head, as she knelt down
impulsively before her, and with a soft solemnity that made the
words both an assurance and a blessing, she said:

"I believe and love and honor thee, my child. My heart warmed to
thee from the first: it has taken thee to itself now; and nothing
can ever come between us, unless thee wills it. Remember that, and
go in peace with an old friend's thanks, and good wishes in return
for faithful service, which no money can repay."

Christie laid her cheek against that wrinkled one, and, for a
moment, was held close to that peaceful old heart which felt so
tenderly for her, yet never wounded her by a word of pity.
Infinitely comforting was that little instant of time, when the
venerable woman consoled the young one with a touch, and
strengthened her by the mute eloquence of sympathy.

This made the hardest task of all easier to perform; and, when David
met her in the evening, Christie was ready to play out her part,
feeling that Mrs. Sterling would help her, if need be. But David
took it very quietly; at least, he showed no very poignant regret at
her departure, though he lamented it, and hoped it would not be a
very long absence. This wounded Christie terribly; for all of a
sudden a barrier seemed to rise between them, and the old
friendliness grew chilled.

"He thinks I am ungrateful, and is offended," she said to herself.
"Well, I can bear coldness better than kindness now, and it will
make it easier to go."

Kitty was pleased at the prospect of reigning alone, and did not
disguise her satisfaction; so Christie's last day was any thing but
pleasant. Mr. Power would send for her on the morrow, and she busied
herself in packing her own possessions, setting every thing in
order, and making various little arrangements for Mrs. Sterling's
comfort, as Kitty was a heedless creature; willing enough, but very
forgetful. In the evening some neighbors came in; so that dangerous
time was safely passed, and Christie escaped to her own room with
her usual quiet good-night all round.

"We won't have any sentimental demonstrations; no wailing, or tender
adieux. If I'm weak enough to break my heart, no one need know
it,--least of all, that little fool," thought Christie, grimly, as
she burnt up several long-cherished relics of her love.

She was up early, and went about her usual work with the sad
pleasure with which one performs a task for the last time. Lazy
little Kitty never appeared till the bell rang; and Christie was
fond of that early hour, busy though it was, for David was always
before her with blazing fires; and, while she got breakfast, he came
and went with wood and water, milk and marketing; often stopping to
talk, and always in his happiest mood.

The first snow-fall had made the world wonderfully lovely that
morning; and Christie stood at the window admiring the bridal look
of the earth, as it lay dazzlingly white in the early sunshine. The
little parlor was fresh and clean, with no speck of dust anywhere;
the fire burned on the bright andirons; the flowers were rejoicing
in their morning bath; and the table was set out with dainty care.
So homelike, so pleasant, so very dear to her, that Christie yearned
to stay, yet dared not, and had barely time to steady face and
voice, when David came in with the little posies he always had ready
for his mother and Christie at breakfast time. Only a flower by
their plates; but it meant much to them: for, in these lives of
ours, tender little acts do more to bind hearts together than great,
deeds or heroic words; since the first are like the dear daily bread
that none can live without; the latter but occasional feasts,
beautiful and memorable, but not possible to all.

This morning David laid a sprig of sweet-scented balm at his
mother's place, two or three rosy daisies at Kitty's, and a bunch of
Christie's favorite violets at hers. She smiled as her eye went from
the scentless daisies, so pertly pretty, to her own posy full of
perfume, and the half sad, half sweet associations that haunt these
blue-eyed flowers.

"I wanted pansies for you, but not one would bloom; so I did the
next best, since you don't like roses," said David, as Christie
stood looking at the violets with a thoughtful face, for something
in the peculiarly graceful arrangement of the heart-shaped leaves
recalled another nosegay to her mind.

"I like these very much, because they came to me in the beginning of
this, the happiest year of my life;" and scarcely knowing why,
except that it was very sweet to talk with David in the early
sunshine, she told about the flowers some one had given her at
church. As she finished she looked up at him; and, though his face
was perfectly grave, his eyes laughed, and with a sudden conviction
of the truth, Christie exclaimed!

"David, I do believe it was you!"

"I couldn't help it: you seemed so touched and troubled. I longed to
speak to you, but didn't dare, so dropped the flowers and got away
as fast as possible. Did you think it very rude?"

"I thought it the sweetest thing that ever happened to me. That was
my first step along a road that you have strewn with flowers ever
since. I can't thank you, but I never shall forget it." Christie
spoke out fervently, and for an instant her heart shone in her face.
Then she checked herself, and, fearing she had said too much, fell
to slicing bread with an energetic rapidity which resulted in a cut
finger. Dropping the knife, she tried to get her handkerchief, but
the blood flowed fast, and the pain of a deep gash made her a little
faint. David sprung to help her, tied up the wound, put her in the
big chair, held water to her lips, and bathed her temples with a wet
napkin; silently, but so tenderly, that it was almost too much for
poor Christie.

For one happy moment her head lay on his arm, and his hand brushed
back her hair with a touch that was a caress: she heard his heart
beat fast with anxiety; felt his breath on her cheek, and wished
that she might die then and there, though a bread-knife was not a
romantic weapon, nor a cut finger as interesting as a broken heart.
Kitty's voice made her start up, and the blissful vision of life,
with David in the little house alone, van ished like a bright
bubble, leaving the hard reality to be lived out with nothing but a
woman's pride to conceal a woman's most passionate pain.

"It's nothing: I'm all right now. Don't say any thing to worry your
mother; I'll put on a bit of court-plaster, and no one will be the
wiser," she said, hastily removing all traces of the accident but
her own pale face.

"ONE HAPPY MOMENT."

"Poor Christie, it's hard that you should go away with a wound like
this on the hand that has done so much for us," said David, as he
carefully adjusted the black strip on that forefinger, roughened by
many stitches set for him.

"I loved to do it," was all Christie trusted herself to say.

"I know you did; and in your own words I can only answer: 'I don't
know how to thank you, but I never shall forget it.'" And David
kissed the wounded hand as gratefully and reverently as if its palm
was not hardened by the humblest tasks.

If he had only known--ah, if he had only known!--how easily he might
repay that debt, and heal the deeper wound in Christie's heart. As
it was, she could only say, "You are too kind," and begin to shovel
tea into the pot, as Kitty came in, as rosy and fresh as the daisies
she put in her hair.

"Ain't they becoming?" she asked, turning to David for admiration.

"No, thank you," he answered absently, looking out over her head, as
he stood upon the rug in the attitude which the best men will assume
in the bosoms of their families.

Kitty looked offended, and turned to the mirror for comfort; while
Christie went on shovelling tea, quite unconscious what she was
about till David said gravely:

"Won't that be rather strong?"

"How stupid of me! I always forget that Kitty does not drink tea,"
and Christie rectified her mistake with all speed.

Kitty laughed, and said in her pert little way:

"Getting up early don't seem to agree with either of you this
morning: I wonder what you've been doing?"

"Your work. Suppose you bring in the kettle: Christie has hurt her
hand."

David spoke quietly; but Kitty looked as much surprised as if he had
boxed her ears, for he had never used that tone to her before. She
meekly obeyed; and David added with a smile to Christie:

"Mother is coming down, and you'll have to get more color into your
checks if you mean to hide your accident from her."

"That is easily done;" and Christie rubbed her pale cheeks till they
rivalled Kitty's in their bloom.

"How well you women know how to conceal your wounds," said David,
half to himself.

"It is an invaluable accomplishment for us sometimes: you forget
that I have been an actress," answered Christie, with a bitter sort
of smile.

"I wish I could forget what I have been!" muttered David, turning
his back to her and kicking a log that had rolled out of place.

In came Mrs. Sterling, and every one brightened up to meet her.
Kitty was silent, and wore an injured air which nobody minded;
Christie was very lively; and David did his best to help her through
that last meal, which was a hard one to three out of the four.

At noon a carriage came for Christie, and she said good-by, as she
had drilled herself to say it, cheerfully and steadily.

"It is only for a time, else I couldn't let thee go, my dear," said
Mrs. Sterling, with a close embrace.

"I shall see you at church, and Tuesday evenings, even if you don't
find time to come to us, so I shall not say good-by at all;" and
David shook hands warmly, as he put her into the carriage.

"I'll invite you to my wedding when I make up my mind," said Kitty,
with feminine malice; for in her eyes Christie was an old maid who
doubtless envied her her "lots of lovers."

"I hope you will be very happy. In the mean time try to save dear
Mrs. Sterling all you can, and let her make you worthy a good
husband," was Christie's answer to a speech she was too noble to
resent by a sharp word, or even a contemptuous look.

Then she drove away, smiling and waving her hand to the old lady at
her window; but the last thing she saw as she left the well-beloved
lane, was David going slowly up the path, with Kitty close beside
him, talking busily. If she had heard the short dialogue between
them, the sight would have been less bitter, for Kitty said:

"She's dreadful good; but I'm glad she's gone: ain't you?"

"No."

"Had you rather have her here than me?"

"Yes."

"Then why don't you ask her to come back."

"I would if I could!"

"I never did see any thing like it; every one is so queer and cross
to-day I get snubbed all round. If folks ain't good to me, I'll go
and marry Miles! I declare I will."

"You'd better," and with that David left her frowning and pouting in
the porch, and went to shovelling snow with unusual vigor.






CHAPTER XIV.

WHICH?





DAVID.

MR. POWER received Christie so hospitably that she felt at home at
once, and took up her new duties with the energy of one anxious to
repay a favor. Her friend knew well the saving power of work, and
gave her plenty of it; but it was a sort that at once interested and
absorbed her, so that she had little time for dangerous thoughts or
vain regrets. As he once said, Mr. Power made her own troubles seem
light by showing her others so terribly real and great that she was
ashamed to repine at her own lot.

Her gift of sympathy served her well, past experience gave her a
quick eye to read the truth in others, and the earnest desire to
help and comfort made her an excellent almoner for the rich, a
welcome friend to the poor. She was in just the right mood to give
herself gladly to any sort of sacrifice, and labored with a quiet
energy, painful to witness had any one known the hidden suffering
that would not let her rest.

If she had been a regular novel heroine at this crisis, she would
have grown gray in a single night, had a dangerous illness, gone
mad, or at least taken to pervading the house at unseasonable hours
with her back hair down and much wringing of the hands. Being only a
commonplace woman she did nothing so romantic, but instinctively
tried to sustain and comfort herself with the humble, wholesome
duties and affections which seldom fail to keep heads sane and
hearts safe. Yet, though her days seemed to pass so busily and
cheerfully, it must be confessed that there were lonely vigils in
the night; and sometimes in the morning Christie's eyes were very
heavy, Christie's pillow wet with tears.

But life never is all work or sorrow; and happy hours, helpful
pleasures, are mercifully given like wayside springs to pilgrims
trudging wearily along. Mr. Power showed Christie many such, and
silently provided her with better consolation than pity or advice.

"Deeds not words," was his motto; and he lived it out most
faithfully. "Books and work" he gave his new charge; and then
followed up that prescription with "healthful play" of a sort she
liked, and had longed for all her life. Sitting at his table
Christie saw the best and bravest men and women of our times; for
Mr. Power was a magnet that drew them from all parts of the world.
She saw and heard, admired and loved them; felt her soul kindle with
the desire to follow in their steps, share their great tasks, know
their difficulties and dangers, and in the end taste the immortal
satisfactions given to those who live and labor for their
fellow-men. In such society all other aims seemed poor and petty;
for they appeared to live in a nobler world than any she had known,
and she felt as if they belonged to another race; not men nor
angels, but a delightful mixture of the two; more as she imagined
the gods and heroes of old; not perfect, but wonderfully strong and
brave and good; each gifted with a separate virtue, and each bent on
a mission that should benefit mankind.

Nor was this the only pleasure given her. One evening of each week
was set apart by Mr. Power for the reception of whomsoever chose to
visit him; for his parish was a large one, and his house a safe
haunt for refugees from all countries, all oppressions.

Christie enjoyed these evenings heartily, for there was no ceremony;
each comer brought his mission, idea, or need, and genuine
hospitality made the visit profitable or memorable to all, for
entire freedom prevailed, and there was stabling for every one's
hobby.

Christie felt that she was now receiving the best culture, acquiring
the polish that society gives, and makes truly admirable when
character adds warmth and power to its charm. The presence of her
bosom-care calmed the old unrest, softened her manners, and at times
touched her face with an expression more beautiful than beauty. She
was quite unconscious of the changes passing over her; and if any
one had told her she was fast becoming a most attractive woman, she
would have been utterly incredulous. But others saw and felt the new
charm; for no deep experience bravely borne can fail to leave its
mark, often giving power in return for patience, and lending a
subtle loveliness to faces whose bloom it has destroyed.

This fact was made apparent to Christie one evening when she went
down to the weekly gathering in one of the melancholy moods which
sometimes oppressed her. She felt dissatisfied with herself because
her interest in all things began to flag, and a restless longing for
some new excitement to break up the monotonous pain of her inner
life possessed her. Being still a little shy in company, she slipped
quietly into a recess which commanded a view of both rooms, and sat
looking listlessly about her while waiting for David, who seldom
failed to come.

A curious collection of fellow-beings was before herj and at another
time she would have found much to interest and amuse her. In one
corner a newly imported German with an Orson-like head, thumb-ring,
and the fragrance of many meerschaums still hovering about him, was
hammering away upon some disputed point with a scientific Frenchman,
whose national politeness was only equalled by his national
volubility. A prominent statesman was talking with a fugitive slave;
a young poet getting inspiration from the face and voice of a
handsome girl who had earned the right to put M. D. to her name. An
old philosopher was calming the ardor of several rampant radicals,
and a famous singer was comforting the heart of an Italian exile by
talking politics in his own melodious tongue.

There were plenty of reformers: some as truculent as Martin Luther;
others as beaming and benevolent as if the pelting of the world had
only mellowed them, and no amount of denunciatory thunder could sour
the milk of human kindness creaming in their happy hearts. There
were eager women just beginning their protest against the wrongs
that had wrecked their peace; subdued women who had been worsted in
the unequal conflict and given it up; resolute women with "No
surrender" written all over their strong-minded countenances; and
sweet, hopeful women, whose faith in God and man nothing could shake
or sadden.

But to Christie there was only one face worth looking at till David
came, and that was Mr. Power's; for he was a perfect host, and
pervaded the rooms like a genial atmosphere, using the welcome of
eye and hand which needs no language to interpret it, giving to each
guest the intellectual fare he loved, and making their enjoyment his
own.

"Bless the dear man! what should we all do without him?" thought
Christie, following him with grateful eyes, as he led an awkward
youth in rusty black to the statesman whom it had been the desire of
his ambitious soul to meet.

The next minute she proved that she at least could do without the
"dear man;" for David entered the room, and she forgot all about
him. Here and at church were the only places where the friends had
met during these months, except one or two short visits to the
little house in the lane when Christie devoted herself to Mrs.
Sterling.

David was quite unchanged, though once or twice Christie fancied he
seemed ill at ease with her, and immediately tormented herself with
the idea that some alteration in her own manner had perplexed or
offended him. She did her best to be as frank and cordial as in the
happy old days; but it was impossible, and she soon gave it up,
assuming in the place of that former friendliness, a grave and quiet
manner which would have led a wiser man than David to believe her
busied with her own affairs and rather indifferent to every thing
else.

If he had known how her heart danced in her bosom, her eyes
brightened, and all the world became endurable, the moment he
appeared, he would not have been so long in joining her, nor have
doubted what welcome awaited him.

As it was, he stopped to speak to his host; and, before he
reappeared, Christie had found the excitement she had been longing
for.

"Now some bore will keep him an hour, and the evening is so short,"
she thought, with a pang of disappointment; and, turning her eyes
away from the crowd which had swallowed up her heart's desire, they
fell upon a gentleman just entering, and remained fixed with an
expression of unutterable surprise; for there, elegant, calm, and
cool as ever, stood Mr. Fletcher.

"How came he here?" was her first question; "How will he behave to
me?" her second. As she could answer neither, she composed herself
as fast as possible, resolving to let matters take their own course,
and feeling in the mood for an encounter with a discarded lover, as
she took a womanish satisfaction in remembering that the very
personable gentleman before her had once been.

Mr. Fletcher and his companion passed on to find their host; and,
with a glance at the mirror opposite, which showed her that the
surprise of the moment had given her the color she lacked before,
Christie occupied herself with a portfolio of engravings, feeling
very much as she used to feel when waiting at a side scene for her
cue.

She had not long to wait before Mr. Power came up, and presented the
stranger; for such he fancied him, never having heard a certain
episode in Christie's life. Mr. Fletcher bowed, with no sign of
recognition in his face, and began to talk in the smooth, low voice
she remembered so well. For the moment, through sheer surprise,
Christie listened and replied as any young lady might have done to a
new-made acquaintance. But very soon she felt sure that Mr. Fletcher
intended to ignore the past; and, finding her on a higher round of
the social ladder, to accept the fact and begin again.

At first she was angry, then amused, then interested in the somewhat
dramatic turn affairs were taking, and very wisely decided to meet
him on his own ground, and see what came of it.

In the midst of an apparently absorbing discussion of one of
Raphael's most insipid Madonnas, she was conscious that David had
approached, paused, and was scrutinizing her companion with unusual
interest. Seized with a sudden desire to see the two men together,
Christie beckoned; and when he obeyed, she introduced him, drew him
into the conversation, and then left him in the lurch by falling
silent and taking notes while they talked.

If she wished to wean her heart from David by seeing him at a
disadvantage, she could have devised no better way; for, though a
very feminine test, it answered the purpose excellently.

Mr. Fletcher was a handsome man, and just then looked his best.
Improved health gave energy and color to his formerly sallow,
listless face: the cold eyes were softer, the hard mouth suave and
smiling, and about the whole man there was that indescribable
something which often proves more attractive than worth or wisdom to
keener-sighted women than Christie. Never had he talked better; for,
as if he suspected what was in the mind of one hearer, he exerted
himself to be as brilliant as possible, and succeeded admirably.

David never appeared so ill, for he had no clew to the little comedy
being played before him; and long seclusion and natural reserve
unfitted him to shine beside a man of the world like Mr. Fletcher.
His simple English sounded harsh, after the foreign phrases that
slipped so easily over the other's tongue. He had visited no
galleries, seen few of the world's wonders, and could only listen
when they were discussed. More than once he was right, but failed to
prove it, for Mr. Fletcher skilfully changed the subject or quenched
him with a politely incredulous shrug.

Even in the matter of costume, poor David was worsted; for, in a
woman's eyes, dress has wonderful significance. Christie used to
think his suit of sober gray the most becoming man could wear; but
now it looked shapeless and shabby, beside garments which bore the
stamp of Paris in the gloss and grace of broadcloth and fine linen.
David wore no gloves: Mr. Fletcher's were immaculate. David's tie
was so plain no one observed it: Mr. Fletcher's, elegant and
faultless enough for a modern Beau Brummel. David's handkerchief was
of the commonest sort (she knew that, for she hemmed it herself):
Mr. Fletcher's was the finest cambric, and a delicate breath of
perfume refreshed the aristocratic nose to which the article
belonged.

Christie despised herself as she made these comparisons, and felt
how superficial they were; but, having resolved to exalt one man at
the expense of the other for her own good, she did not relent till
David took advantage of a pause, and left them with a reproachful
look that made her wish Mr. Fletcher at the bottom of the sea.

When they were alone a subtle change in his face and manner
convinced her that he also had been taking notes, and had arrived at
a favorable decision regarding herself. Women are quick at making
such discoveries; and, even while she talked with him as a stranger,
she felt assured that, if she chose, she might make him again her
lover.

Here was a temptation! She had longed for some new excitement, and
fate seemed to have put one of the most dangerous within her reach.
It was natural to find comfort in the knowledge that somebody loved
her, and to take pride in her power over one man, because another
did not own it. In spite of her better self she felt the fascination
of the hour, and yielded to it, half unconsciously assuming
something of the "dash and daring" which Mr. Fletcher had once
confessed to finding so captivating in the demure governess. He
evidently thought so still, and played his part with spirit; for,
while apparently enjoying a conversation which contained no allusion
to the past, the memory of it gave piquancy to that long
tete-a-tete.

As the first guests began to go, Mr. Fletcher's friend beckoned to
him; and he rose, saying with an accent of regret which changed to
one of entreaty, as he put his question:

"I, too, must go. May I come again, Miss Devon?"

"I am scarcely more than a guest myself; but Mr. Power is always
glad to see whoever cares to come," replied Christie rather primly,
though her eyes were dancing with amusement at the recollection of
those love passages upon the beach.

"Next time, I shall come not as a stranger, but as a former--may I
say friend?" he added quickly, as if emboldened by the mirthful eyes
that so belied the demure lips.

"Now you forget your part," and Christie's primness vanished in a
laugh. "I am glad of it, for I want to ask about Mrs. Saltonstall
and the children. I've often thought of the little dears, and longed
to see them."

"They are in Paris with their father."

"Mrs. Saltonstall is well, I hope?"

"She died six months ago."

An expression of genuine sorrow came over Mr. Fletcher's face as he
spoke; and, remembering that the silly little woman was his sister,
Christie put out her hand with a look and gesture so full of
sympathy that words were unnecessary. Taking advantage of this
propitious moment, he said, with an expressive glance and effective
tone: "I am all alone now. You will let me come again?"

"Certainly, if it can give you pleasure," she answered heartily,
forgetting herself in pity for his sorrow.

Mr. Fletcher pressed her hand with a grateful, "Thank you!" and
wisely went away at once, leaving compassion to plead for him better
than he could have done it for himself.

Leaning back in her chair, Christie was thinking over this interview
so intently that she started when David's voice said close beside
her:

"Shall I disturb you if I say, 'Good-night'?"

"I thought you were not going to say it at all," she answered rather
sharply.

"I've been looking for a chance; but you were so absorbed with that
man I had to wait."

"Considering the elegance of 'that man,' you don't treat him with
much respect."

"I don't feel much. What brought him here, I wonder. A French salon
is more in his line."

"He came to see Mr. Power, as every one else does, of course."

"Don't dodge, Christie: you know he came to see you."

"How do you like him?" she asked, with treacherous abruptness.

"Not particularly, so far. But if I knew him, I dare say I should
find many good traits in him."

"I know you would!" said Christie, warmly, not thinking of Fletcher,
but of David's kindly way of finding good in every one.

"He must have improved since you saw him last; for then, if I
remember rightly, you found him 'lazy, cross, selfish," and
conceited.'"

"Now, David, I never said any thing of the sort," began Christie,
wondering what possessed him to be so satirical and short with her.

"Yes, you did, last September, sitting on the old apple-tree the
morning of your birthday."

"What an inconvenient memory you have! Well, he was all that then;
but he is not an invalid now, and so we see his real self."

"I also remember that you gave me the impression that he was an
elderly man."

"Isn't forty elderly?"

"He wasn't forty when you taught his sister's children."

"No; but he looked older than he does now, being so ill. I used to
think he would be very handsome with good health; and now I see I
was right," said Christie, with feigned enthusiasm; for it was a new
thing to tease David, and she liked it.

But she got no more of it; for, just then, the singer began to sing
to the select few who remained, and every one was silent. Leaning on
the high back of Christie's chair, David watched the reflection of
her face in the long mirror; for she listened to the music with
downcast eyes, unconscious what eloquent expressions were passing
over her countenance. She seemed a new Christie to David, in that
excited mood; and, as he watched her, he thought:

"She loved this man once, or he loved her; and tonight it all comes
back to her. How will it end?"

So earnestly did he try to read that altered face that Christie felt
the intentness of his gaze, looked up suddenly, and met his eyes in
the glass. Something in the expression of those usually serene eyes,
now darkened and dilated with the intensity of that long scrutiny,
surprised and troubled her; and, scarcely knowing what she said, she
asked quickly:

"Who are you admiring?"

"Not myself."

"I wonder if you'd think me vain if I asked you something that I
want to know?" she said, obeying a sudden impulse.

"Ask it, and I'll tell you."

"Am I much changed since you first knew me?"

"Very much."

"For the better or the worse?"

"The better, decidedly."

"Thank you, I hoped so; but one never knows how one seems to other
people. I was wondering what you saw in the glass."

"A good and lovely woman, Christie."

How sweet it sounded to hear David say that! so simply and sincerely
that it was far more than a mere compliment. She did not thank him,
but said softly as if to herself:

"So let me seem until I be"--

and then sat silent, so full of satisfaction in the thought that
David found her "good and lovely," she could not resist stealing a
glance at the tell-tale mirror to see if she might believe him.

She forgot herself, however; for he was off guard now, and stood
looking away with brows knit, lips tightly set, and eyes fixed, yet
full of fire; his whole attitude and expression that of a man intent
on subduing some strong impulse by a yet stronger will.

It startled Christie; and she leaned forward, watching him with
breathless interest till the song ceased, and, with the old
impatient gesture, David seemed to relapse into his accustomed
quietude.

"It was the wonderful music that excited him: that was all;" thought
Christie; yet, when he came round to say good-night, the strange
expression was not gone, and his manner was not his own.

"Shall I ask if I may come again," he said, imitating Mr. Flctcher's
graceful bow with an odd smile.

"I let him come because he has lost his sister, and is lonely,"
began Christie, but got no further, for David said, "Good-night!"
abruptly, and was gone without a word to Mr. Power.

"He's in a hurry to get back to his Kitty," she thought, tormenting
herself with feminine skill. "Never mind," she added, with a defiant
sort of smile; "I 've got my Philip, handsomer and more in love than
ever, if I'm not deceived. I wonder if he will come again?"

Mr. Fletcher did come again, and with flattering regularity, for
several weeks, evidently finding something very attractive in those
novel gatherings. Mr. Power soon saw why he came; and, as Christie
seemed to enjoy his presence, the good man said nothing to disturb
her, though he sometimes cast an anxious glance toward the recess
where the two usually sat, apparently busy with books or pictures;
yet, by their faces, showing that an under current of deeper
interest than art or literature flowed through their intercourse.

Christie had not deceived herself, and it was evident that her old
lover meant to try his fate again, if she continued to smile upon
him as she had done of late. He showed her his sunny side now, and
very pleasant she found it. The loss of his sister had touched his
heart, and made him long to fill the place her death left vacant.
Better health sweetened his temper, and woke the desire to do
something worth the doing; and the sight of the only woman he had
ever really loved, reawakened the sentiment that had not died, and
made it doubly sweet.

Why he cared for Christie he could not tell, but he never had
forgotten her; and, when he met her again with that new beauty in
her face, he felt that time had only ripened the blithe girl into a
deep-hearted woman, and he loved her with a better love than before.
His whole manner showed this; for the half-careless,
half-condescending air of former times was replaced by the most
courteous respect, a sincere desire to win her favor, and at times
the tender sort of devotion women find so charming.

Christie felt all this, enjoyed it, and tried to be grateful for it
in the way he wished, thinking that hearts could be managed like
children, and when one toy is unattainable, be appeased by a bigger
or a brighter one of another sort.

"I must love some one," she said, as she leaned over a basket of
magnificent flowers just left for her by Mr. Fletcher's servant, a
thing which often happened now. "Philip has loved me with a fidelity
that ought to touch my heart. Why not accept him, and enjoy a new
life of luxury, novelty, and pleasure? All these things he can give
me: all these things are valued, admired, and sought for: and who
would appreciate them more than I? I could travel, cultivate myself
in many delightful ways, and do so much good. No matter if I was not
very happy: I should make Philip so, and have it in my power to
comfort many poor souls. That ought to satisfy me; for what is
nobler than to live for others?"

This idea attracted her, as it does all generous natures; she became
enamoured of self-sacrifice, and almost persuaded herself that it
was her duty to marry Mr. Fletcher, whether she loved him or not, in
order that she might dedicate her life to the service of poorer,
sadder creatures than herself.

But in spite of this amiable delusion, in spite of the desire to
forget the love she would have in the love she might have, and in
spite of the great improvement in her faithful Philip, Christie
could not blind herself to the fact that her head, rather than her
heart, advised the match; she could not conquer a suspicion that,
however much Mr. Fletcher might love his wife, he would be something
of a tyrant, and she was very sure she never would make a good
slave. In her cooler moments she remembered that men are not
puppets, to be moved as a woman's will commands, and the uncertainty
of being able to carry out her charitable plans made her pause to
consider whether she would not be selling her liberty too cheaply,
if in return she got only dependence and bondage along with fortune
and a home.

So tempted and perplexed, self-deluded and self-warned, attracted
and repelled, was poor Christie, that she began to feel as if she
had got into a labyrinth without any clew to bring her safely out.
She longed to ask advice of some one, but could not turn to Mrs.
Sterling; and what other woman friend had she except Rachel, from
whom she had not heard for months?

As she asked herself this question one day, feeling sure that Mr.
Fletcher would come in the evening, and would soon put his fortune
to the touch again, the thought of Mrs. Wilkins seemed to answer
her.

"Why not?" said Christie: "she is sensible, kind, and discreet; she
may put me right, for I'm all in a tangle now with doubts and fears,
feelings and fancies. I'll go and see her: that will do me good,
even if I don't say a word about my 'werryments,' as the dear soul
would call them."

Away she went, and fortunately found her friend alone in the
"settin'-room," darning away at a perfect stack of socks, as she
creaked comfortably to and fro in her old rocking-chair.

"I was jest wishin' somebody would drop in: it's so kinder lonesome
with the children to school and Adelaide asleep. How be you, dear?"
said Mrs. Wilkins, with a hospitable hug and a beaming smile.

"I'm worried in my mind, so I came to see you," answered Christie,
sitting down with a sigh.

"Bless your dear heart, what is to pay. Free your mind, and I'll do
my best to lend a hand."

The mere sound of that hearty voice comforted Christie, and gave her
courage to introduce the little fiction under which she had decided
to defraud Mrs. Wilkins of her advice. So she helped herself to a
very fragmentary blue sock and a big needle, that she might have
employment for her eyes, as they were not so obedient as her tongue,
and then began in as easy a tone as she could assume.

"Well, you see a friend of mine wants my advice on a very serious
matter, and I really don't know what to give her. It is strictly
confidential, you know, so I won't mention any names, but just set
the case before you and get your opinion, for I've great faith in
your sensible way of looking at things."

"Thanky, dear, you'r welcome to my 'pinion ef it's wuth any thing.
Be these folks you tell of young?" asked Mrs. Wilkins, with evident
relish for the mystery.

"No, the woman is past thirty, and the man 'most forty, I believe,"
said Christie, darning away in some trepidation at having taken the
first plunge.

"My patience! ain't the creater old enough to know her own mind? for
I s'pose she's the one in the quanderry?" exclaimed Mrs. Wilkins,
looking over her spectacles with dangerously keen eyes.

"The case is this," said Christie, in guilty haste. "The 'creature'
is poor and nobody, the man rich and of good family, so you see it's
rather hard for her to decide."

"No, I don't see nothin' of the sort," returned blunt Mrs. Wilkins.
"Ef she loves the man, take him: ef she don't, give him the mittin
and done with it. Money and friends and family ain't much to do with
the matter accordin' to my view. It's jest a plain question betwixt
them two. Ef it takes much settlin' they 'd better let it alone."

"She doesn't love him as much as she might, I fancy, but she is
tired of grubbing along alone. He is very fond of her, and very
rich; and it would be a fine thing for her in a worldly way, I'm
sure."

"Oh, she's goin' to marry for a livin' is she? Wal, now I'd ruther
one of my girls should grub the wust kind all their days than do
that. Hows'ever, it may suit some folks ef they ain't got much
heart, and is contented with fine clothes, nice vittles, and
handsome furnitoor. Selfish, cold, silly kinder women might git on,
I dare say; but I shouldn't think any friend of your'n would be one
of that sort."

"But she might do a great deal of good, and make others happy even
if she was not so herself."

"She might, but I doubt it, for money got that way wouldn't prosper
wal. Mis'able folks ain't half so charitable as happy ones; and I
don't believe five dollars from one of 'em would go half so fur, or
be half so comfortin' as a kind word straight out of a cheerful
heart. I know some thinks that is a dreadful smart thing to do; but
I don't, and ef any one wants to go a sacrificin' herself for the
good of others, there's better ways of doin' it than startin' with a
lie in her mouth."

Mrs. Wilkins spoke warmly; for Christie's face made her fiction
perfectly transparent, though the good woman with true delicacy
showed no sign of intelligence on that point.

"Then you wouldn't advise my friend to say yes?"

"Sakes alive, no! I'd say to her as I did to my younger sisters when
their courtin' time come: 'Jest be sure you're right as to there
bein' love enough, then go ahead, and the Lord will bless you.'"

"Did they follow your advice?"

"They did, and both is prosperin' in different ways. Gusty, she
found she was well on't for love, so she married, though Samuel Buck
was poor, and they're happy as can be a workin' up together, same as
Lisha and me did. Addy, she calc'lated she wan't satisfied somehow,
so she didn't marry, though James Miller was wal off; and she's kep
stiddy to her trade, and ain't never repented. There's a sight said
and writ about such things," continued Mrs. Wilkins, rambling on to
give Christie time to think; "but I've an idee that women's hearts
is to be trusted ef they ain't been taught all wrong. Jest let 'em
remember that they take a husband for wuss as well as better (and
there's a sight of wuss in this tryin' world for some on us), and be
ready to do their part patient and faithful, and I ain't a grain
afraid but what they'll be fetched through, always pervidin' they
love the man and not his money."

There was a pause after that last speech, and Christie felt as if
her perplexity was clearing away very fast; for Mrs. Wilkins's plain
talk seemed to show her things in their true light, with all the
illusions of false sentiment and false reasoning stripped away. She
felt clearer and stronger already, and as if she could make up her
mind very soon when one other point had been discussed.

"I fancy my friend is somewhat influenced by the fact that this man
loved and asked her to marry him some years ago. He has not
forgotten her, and this touches her heart more than any thing else.
It seems as if his love must be genuine to last so long, and not to
mind her poverty, want of beauty, and accomplishments; for he is a
proud and fastidious man."

"I think wal of him for that!" said Mrs. Wilkins, approvingly; "but
I guess she's wuth all he gives her, for there must be somethin'
pretty gennywin' in her to make him overlook her lacks and hold on
so stiddy. It don't alter her side of the case one mite though; for
love is love, and ef she ain't got it, he'd better not take
gratitude instid, but sheer off and leave her for somebody else."

"Nobody else wants her!" broke from Christie like an involuntary cry
of pain; then she hid her face by stooping to gather up the
avalanche of hosiery which fell from her lap to the floor.

"She can't be sure of that," said Mrs. Wilkins cheerily, though her
spectacles were dim with sudden mist. "I know there's a mate for her
somewheres, so she'd better wait a spell and trust in Providence. It
wouldn't be so pleasant to see the right one come along after she'd
went and took the wrong one in a hurry: would it? Waitin' is always
safe, and time needn't be wasted in frettin' or bewailin'; for the
Lord knows there's a sight of good works sufferin' to be done, and
single women has the best chance at 'em."

"I've accomplished one good work at any rate; and, small as it is, I
feel better for it. Give this sock to your husband, and tell him his
wife sets a good example both by precept and practice to other
women, married or single. Thank you very much, both for myself and
my friend, who shall profit by your advice," said Christie, feeling
that she had better go before she told every thing.

"I hope she will," returned Mrs. Wilkins, as her guest went away
with a much happier face than the one she brought. "And ef I know
her, which I think I do, she'll find that Cinthy Wilkins ain't fur
from right, ef her experience is good for any thing," added the
matron with a sigh, and a glance at a dingy photograph of her Lisha
on the wall, a sigh that seemed to say there had been a good deal of
"wuss" in her bargain, though she was too loyal to confess it.

Something in Christie's face struck Mr. Fletcher at once when he
appeared that evening. He had sometimes found her cold and quiet,
often gay and capricious, usually earnest and cordial, with a
wistful look that searched his face and both won and checked him by
its mute appeal, seeming to say, "Wait a little till I have taught
my heart to answer as you wish."

To-night her eyes shunned his, and when he caught a glimpse of them
they were full of a soft trouble; her manner was kinder than ever
before, and yet it made him anxious, for there was a resolute
expression about her lips even when she smiled, and though he
ventured upon allusions to the past hitherto tacitly avoided, she
listened as if it had no tender charm for her.

Being thoroughly in earnest now, Mr. Fletcher resolved to ask the
momentous question again without delay. David was not there, and had
not been for several weeks, another thorn in Christie's heart,
though she showed no sign of regret, and said to herself, "It is
better so." His absence left Fletcher master of the field, and he
seized the propitious moment.

"Will you show me the new picture? Mr. Power spoke of it, but I do
not like to trouble him."

"With pleasure," and Christie led the way to a little room where the
newly arrived gift was placed.

She knew what was coming, but was ready, and felt a tragic sort of
satisfaction in the thought of all she was relinquishing for love of
David.

No one was in the room, but a fine copy of Michael Angelo's Fates
hung on the wall, looking down at them with weird significance.

"They look as if they would give a stern answer to any questioning
of ours," Mr. Fletcher said, after a glance of affected interest.

"They would give a true one I fancy," answered Christie, shading her
eyes as if to see the better.

"I 'd rather question a younger, fairer Fate, hoping that she will
give me an answer both true and kind. May I, Christie?"

"I will be true but--I cannot be kind." It cost her much to say
that; yet she did it steadily, though he held her hand in both his
own, and waited for her words with ardent expectation.

"Not yet perhaps,--but in time, when I have proved how sincere my
love is, how entire my repentance for the ungenerous words you have
not forgotten. I wanted you then for my own sake, now I want you for
yourself, because I love and honor you above all women. I tried to
forget you, but I could not; and all these years have carried in my
heart a very tender memory of the girl who dared to tell me that all
I could offer her was not worth her love."

"I was mistaken," began Christie, finding this wooing much harder to
withstand than the other.

"No, you were right: I felt it then and resented it, but I owned it
later, and regretted it more bitterly than I can tell. I'm not
worthy of you; I never shall be: but I've loved you for five years
without hope, and I'll wait five more if in the end you will come to
me. Christie, I need you very much!"

If Mr. Fletcher had gone down upon his knees and poured out the most
ardent protestations that ever left a lover's lips, it would not
have touched her as did that last little appeal, uttered with a
break in the voice that once was so proud and was so humble now.

"Forgive me!" she cried, looking up at him with real respect in her
face, and real remorse smiting her conscience. "Forgive me! I have
misled you and myself. I tried to love you: I was grateful for your
regard, touched by your fidelity, and I hoped I might repay it; but
I cannot! I cannot!"

"Why?"

Such a hard question! She owed him all the truth, yet how could she
tell it? She could not in words, but her face did, for the color
rose and burned on cheeks and forehead with painful fervor; her eyes
fell, and her lips trembled as if endeavoring to keep down the
secret that was escaping against her will. A moment of silence as
Mr. Fletcher searched for the truth and found it; then he said with
such sharp pain in his voice that Christie's heart ached at the
sound:

"I see: I am too late?"

"Yes."

"And there is no hope?"

"None."

"Then there is nothing more for me to say but good-by. May you be
happy."

"I shall not be;--I have no hope;--I only try to be true to you and
to myself. Oh, believe it, and pity me as I do you!"

As the words broke from Christie, she covered up her face, bowed
down with the weight of remorse that made her long to atone for what
she had done by any self-humiliation.

Mr. Fletcher was at his best at that moment; for real love ennobles
the worst and weakest while it lasts: but he could not resist the
temptation that confession offered him. He tried to be generous, but
the genuine virtue was not in him; he did want Christie very much,
and the knowledge of a rival in her heart only made her the dearer.

"I'm not content with your pity, sweet as it is: I want your love,
and I believe that I might earn it if you would let me try. You are
all alone, and life is hard to you: come to me and let me make it
happier. I'll be satisfied with friendship till you can give me
more."

He said this very tenderly, caressing the bent head while he spoke,
and trying to express by tone and gesture how eagerly he longed to
receive and cherish what that other man neglected.

Christie felt this to her heart's core, and for a moment longed to
end the struggle, say, "Take me," and accept the shadow for the
substance. But those last words of his vividly recalled the compact
made with David that happy birthday night. How could she be his
friend if she was Mr. Fletcher's wife? She knew she could not be
true to both, while her heart reversed the sentiment she then would
owe them: David's friendship was dearer than Philip's love, and she
would keep it at all costs. These thoughts flashed through her mind
in the drawing of a breath, and she looked up, saying steadily in
spite of wet eyes and still burning cheeks:

"Hope nothing; wait for nothing from me. I will have no more
delusions for either of us: it is weak and wicked, for I know I
shall not change. Some time we may venture to be friends perhaps,
but not now. Forgive me, and be sure I shall suffer more than you
for this mistake of mine."

When she had denied his suit before he had been ungenerous and
angry; for his pride was hurt and his will thwarted: now his heart
bled and hope died hard; but all that was manliest in him rose to
help him bear the loss, for this love was genuine, and made him both
just and kind. His face was pale with the pain of that fruitless
passion, and his voice betrayed how hard he strove for self-control,
as he said hurriedly:

"You need not suffer: this mistake has given me the happiest hours
of my life, and I am better for having known so sweet and true a
woman. God bless you, Christie!" and with a quick embrace that
startled her by its suddenness and strength he left her, standing
there alone before the three grim Fates.






CHAPTER XV.

MIDSUMMER.





"NOW it is all over. I shall never have another chance like that,
and must make up my mind to be a lonely and laborious spinster all
my life. Youth is going fast, and I have little in myself to attract
or win, though David did call me 'good and lovely.' Ah, well, I'll
try to deserve his praise, and not let disappointment sour or sadden
me. Better to hope and wait all my life than marry without love."

Christie often said this to herself during the hard days that
followed Mr. Fletcher's disappearance; a disappearance, by the way,
which caused Mr. Power much satisfaction, though he only betrayed it
by added kindness to Christie, and in his manner an increased
respect very comforting to her.

But she missed her lover, for nothing now broke up the monotony of a
useful life. She had enjoyed that little episode; for it had lent
romance to every thing while it lasted, even the charity basket with
which she went her rounds; for Mr. Fletcher often met her by
accident apparently, and carried it as if to prove the sincerity of
his devotion. No bouquets came now; no graceful little notes with
books or invitations to some coveted pleasure; no dangerously
delightful evenings in the recess, where, for a time, she felt and
used the power which to a woman is so full of subtle satisfaction;
no bitter-sweet hopes; no exciting dreams of what might be with the
utterance of a word; no soft uncertainty to give a charm to every
hour that passed. Nothing but daily duties, a little leisure that
hung heavy on her hands with no hope to stimulate, no lover to
lighten it, and a sore, sad heart that would clamor for its right;
and even when pride silenced it ached on with the dull pain which
only time and patience have the power to heal.

But as those weeks went slowly by, she began to discover some of the
miracles true love can work. She thought she had laid it in its
grave; but an angel rolled the stone away, and the lost passion rose
stronger, purer, and more beautiful than when she buried it with
bitter tears. A spirit now, fed by no hope, warmed by no tenderness,
clothed in no fond delusion; the vital soul of love which outlives
the fairest, noblest form humanity can give it, and sits among the
ruins singing the immortal hymn of consolation the Great Musician
taught.

Christie felt this strange comfort resting like a baby in her lonely
bosom, cherished and blessed it; wondering while she rejoiced, and
soon perceiving with the swift instinct of a woman, that this was a
lesson, hard to learn, but infinitely precious, helpful, and
sustaining when once gained. She was not happy, only patient; not
hopeful, but trusting; and when life looked dark and barren without,
she went away into that inner world of deep feeling, high thought,
and earnest aspiration; which is a never-failing refuge to those
whose experience has built within them

"The nunnery of a chaste heart and quiet mind."

Some women live fast; and Christie fought her battle, won her
victory, and found peace declared during that winter: for her
loyalty to love brought its own reward in time, giving her the
tranquil steadfastness which comes to those who submit and ask
nothing but fortitude.

She had seen little of David, except at church, and began to regard
him almost as one might a statue on a tomb, the marble effigy of the
beloved dead below; for the sweet old friendship was only a pale
shadow now. He always found her out, gave her the posy she best
liked, said cheerfully, "How goes it, Christie?" and she always
answered, "Good-morning, David. I am well and busy, thank you." Then
they sat together listening to Mr. Power, sung from the same book,
walked a little way together, and parted for another week with a
hand-shake for good-by.

Christie often wondered what prayers David prayed when he sat so
still with his face hidden by his hand, and looked up with such a
clear and steady look when he had done. She tried to do the same;
but her thoughts would wander to the motionless gray figure beside
her, and she felt as if peace and strength unconsciously flowed from
it to sustain and comfort her. Some of her happiest moments were
those she spent sitting there, pale and silent, with absent eyes,
and lips that trembled now and then, hidden by the flowers held
before them, kissed covertly, and kept like relics long after they
were dead.

One bitter drop always marred the pleasure of that hour; for when
she had asked for Mrs. Sterling, and sent her love, she forced
herself to say kindly:

"And Kitty, is she doing well?"

"Capitally; come and see how she has improved; we are quite proud of
her."

"I will if I can find time. It's a hard winter and we have so much
to do," she would answer smiling, and then go home to struggle back
into the patient mood she tried to make habitual.

But she seldom made time to go and see Kitty's improvement; and,
when she did run out for an hour she failed to discover any thing,
except that the girl was prettier and more coquettish than ever, and
assumed airs of superiority that tried Christie very much.

"I am ready for any thing," she always said with a resolute air
after one of these visits; but, when the time seemed to have come
she was not so ready as she fancied.

Passing out of a store one day, she saw Kitty all in her best,
buying white gloves with a most important air. "That looks
suspicious," she thought, and could not resist speaking.

"All well at home?" she asked.

"Grandma and I have been alone for nearly a week; David went off on
business; but he's back now and--oh, my goodness! I forgot: I'm not
to tell a soul yet;" and Kitty pursed up her lips, looking quite
oppressed with some great secret.

"Bless me, how mysterious! Well, I won't ask any dangerous
questions, only tell me if the dear old lady is well," said
Christie, desperately curious, but too proud to show it.

"She's well, but dreadfully upset by what's happened; well she may
be." And Kitty shook her head with a look of mingled mystery and
malicious merriment.

"Mr. Sterling is all right I hope?" Christie never called him David
to Kitty; so that impertinent little person took especial pains to
speak familiarly, sometimes even fondly of him to Christie.

"Dear fellow! he's so happy he don't know what to do with himself. I
just wish you could see him go round smiling, and singing, and
looking as if he'd like to dance."

"That looks as if he was going to get a chance to do it," said
Christie, with a glance at the gloves, as Kitty turned from the
counter.

"So he is!" laughed Kitty, patting the little parcel with a joyful
face.

"I do believe you are going to be married:" exclaimed Christie, half
distracted with curiosity.

"I am, but not to Miles. Now don't you say another word, for I'm
dying to tell, and I promised I wouldn't. David wants to do it
himself. By-by." And Kitty hurried away, leaving Christie as pale as
if she had seen a ghost at noonday.

She had; for the thought of David's marrying Kitty had haunted her
all those months, and now she was quite sure the blow had come.

"If she was only a nobler woman I could bear it better; but I am
sure he will regret it when the first illusion is past. I fancy she
reminds him of his lost Letty, and so he thinks he loves her. I pray
he may be happy, and I hope it will be over soon," thought Christie,
with a groan, as she trudged away to carry comfort to those whose
woes could be relieved by tea and sugar, flannel petticoats, and
orders for a ton of coal.

It was over soon, but not as Christie had expected.

That evening Mr. Power was called away, and she sat alone, bravely
trying to forget suspense and grief in copying the record of her
last month's labor. But she made sad work of it; for her mind was
full of David and his wife, so happy in the little home which had
grown doubly dear to her since she left it. No wonder then that she
put down "two dozen children" to Mrs. Flanagan, and "four knit
hoods" with the measles; or that a great blot fell upon "twenty
yards red flannel," as the pen dropped from the hands she clasped
together; saying with all the fervor of true self-abnegation: "I
hope he will be happy; oh, I hope he will be happy!"

If ever woman deserved reward for patient endeavor, hard-won
submission, and unselfish love, Christie did then. And she received
it in full measure; for the dear Lord requites some faithful hearts,
blesses some lives that seem set apart for silent pain and solitary
labor.

Snow was falling fast, and a bitter wind moaned without; the house
was very still, and nothing stirred in the room but the flames
dancing on the hearth, and the thin hand moving to and fro among the
records of a useful life.

Suddenly the bell rang loudly and repeatedly, as if the new-comer
was impatient of delay. Christie paused to listen. It was not Mr.
Power's ring, not his voice in the hall below, not his step that
came leaping up the stairs, nor his hand that threw wide the door.
She knew them all, and her heart stood still an instant; then she
gathered up her strength, said low to herself, "Now it is coming,"
and was ready for the truth, with a colorless face; eyes unnaturally
bright and fixed; and one hand on her breast, as if to hold in check
the rebellious heart that would throb so fast.

It was David who came in with such impetuosity. Snow-flakes shone in
his hair; the glow of the keen wind was on his cheek, a smile on his
lips, and in his eyes an expression she had never seen before.
Happiness, touched with the shadow of some past pain; doubt and
desire; gratitude and love,--all seemed to meet and mingle in it;
while, about the whole man, was the free and ardent air of one
relieved from some heavy burden, released from some long captivity.

"O David, what is it?" cried Christie, as he stood looking at her
with this strange look.

"News, Christie! such happy news I can't find words to tell them,"
he answered, coming nearer, but too absorbed in his own emotion to
heed hers.

She drew a long breath and pressed her hand a little heavier on her
breast, as she said, with the ghost of a smile, more pathetic than
the saddest tears:

"I guess it, David."

"How?" he demanded, as if defrauded of a joy he had set his heart
upon.

"I met Kitty,--she told me nothing,--but her face betrayed what I
have long suspected."

David laughed, such a glad yet scornful laugh, and, snatching a
little miniature from his pocket, offered it, saying, with the new
impetuosity that changed him so:

"That is the daughter I have found for my mother. You know her,--you
love her; and you will not be ashamed to welcome her, I think."

Christie took it; saw a faded, time-worn likeness of a young girl's
happy face; a face strangely familiar, yet, for a moment, she groped
to find the name belonging to it. Then memory helped her; and she
said, half incredulously, half joyfully:

"Is it my Rachel?"

"It is my Letty!" cried David, with an accent of such mingled love
and sorrow, remorse and joy, that Christie seemed to hear in it the
death-knell of her faith in him. The picture fell from the hands she
put up, as if to ward off some heavy blow, and her voice was sharp
with reproachful anguish, as she cried:

"O David, David, any thing but that!"

An instant he seemed bewildered, then the meaning of the grief in
her face flashed on him, and his own grew white with indignant
repudiation of the thought that daunted her; but he only said with
the stern brevity of truth:

"Letty is my sister."

"Forgive me,--how could I know? Oh, thank God! thank God!" and,
dropping down upon a chair, Christie broke into a passion of the
happiest tears she ever shed.

David stood beside her silent, till tie first irrepressible paroxysm
was over; then, while she sat weeping softly, quite bowed down by
emotion, he said, sadly now, not sternly:

"You could not know, because we hid the truth so carefully. I have
no right to resent that belief of yours, for I did wrong my poor
Letty, almost as much as that lover of hers, who, being dead, I do
not curse. Let me tell you every thing, Christie, before I ask your
respect and confidence again. I never deserved them, but I tried to;
for they were very precious to me."

He paused a moment, then went on rapidly, as if anxious to
accomplish a hard task; and Christie forgot to weep while listening
breathlessly.

"Letty was the pride of my heart; and I loved her very dearly, for
she was all I had. Such a pretty child; such a gay, sweet girl; how
could I help it, when she was so fond of me? We were poor
then,--poorer than now,--and she grew restless; tired of hard work;
longed for a little pleasure, and could not bear to waste her youth
and beauty in that dull town. I did not blame my little girl; but I
could not help her, for I was tugging away to fill father's place,
he being broken down and helpless. She wanted to go away and support
herself. You know the feeling; and I need not tell you how the
proud, high-hearted creature hated dependence, even on a brother who
would have worked his soul out for her. She would go, and we had
faith in her. For a time she did bravely; but life was too hard for
her; pleasure too alluring, and, when temptation came in the guise
of love, she could not resist. One dreadful day, news came that she
was gone, never to come back, my innocent little Letty, any more."

His voice failed there, and he walked fast through the room, as if
the memory of that bitter day was still unbearable. Christie could
not speak for very pity; and he soon continued, pacing restlessly
before her, as he had often done when she sat by, wondering what
unquiet spirit drove him to and fro:

"That was the beginning of my trouble; but not the worst of it: God
forgive me, not the worst! Father was very feeble, and the shock
killed him; mother's heart was nearly broken, and all the happiness
was taken out of life for me. But I could bear it, heavy as the blow
was, for I had no part in that sin and sorrow. A year later, there
came a letter from Letty,--a penitent, imploring, little letter,
asking to be forgiven and taken home, for her lover was dead, and
she alone in a foreign land. How would you answer such a letter,
Christie?"

"As you did; saying: 'Corne home and let us comfort you.'"

"I said: 'You have killed your father; broken your mother's heart;
ruined your brother's hopes, and disgraced your family. You no
longer have a home with us; and we never want to see your face
again.'"

"O David, that was cruel!"

"I said you did not know me; now you see how deceived you have been.
A stern, resentful devil possessed me then, and I obeyed it. I was
very proud; full of ambitious plans and jealous love for the few I
took into my heart. Letty had brought a stain upon our honest name
that time could never wash away; had quenched my hopes in despair
and shame; had made home desolate, and destroyed my faith in every
thing; for whom could I trust, when she, the nearest and dearest
creature in the world, deceived and deserted me. I could not
forgive; wrath burned hot within me, and the desire for retribution
would not be appeased till those cruel words were said. The
retribution and remorse came swift and sure; but they came most
heavily to me."

Still standing where he had paused abruptly as he asked his
question, David wrung his strong hands together with a gesture of
passionate regret, while his face grew sharp with the remembered
suffering of the years he had given to the atonement of that wrong.

Christie put her own hand on those clenched ones, and whispered
softly:

"Don't tell me any more now: I can wait."

"I must, and you must listen! I've longed to tell you, but I was
afraid; now, you shall know every thing, and then decide if you can
forgive me for Letty's sake," he said, so resolutely that she
listened with a face full of mute compassion.

"That little letter came to me; I never told my mother, but answered
it, and kept silent till news arrived that the ship in which Letty
had taken passage was lost. Remorse had been tugging at my heart;
and, when I knew that she was dead, I forgave her with a vain
forgiveness, and mourned for my darling, as if she had never left
me. I told my mother then, and she did not utter one reproach; but
age seemed to fall upon her all at once, and the pathetic quietude
you see.

"Then, but for her, I should have been desperate; for day and night
Letty's face haunted me; Letty's voice cried: 'Take me home!' and
every word of that imploring letter burned before my eyes as if
written in fire. Do you wonder now that I hid myself; that I had no
heart to try for any honorable place in the world, and only
struggled to forget, only hoped to expiate my sin?"

With his head bowed down upon his breast, David stood silent, asking
himself if he had even now done enough to win the reward he coveted.
Christie's voice seemed to answer him; for she said, with heartfelt
gratitude and respect:

"Surely you have atoned for that harshness to one woman by years of
devotion to many. Was it this that made you 'a brother of girls,' as
Mr. Power once called you? And, when I asked what he meant, he said
the Arabs call a man that who has 'a clean heart to love all women
as his sisters, and strength and courage to fight for their
protection!'"

She hoped to lighten his trouble a little, and spoke with a smile
that was like cordial to poor David.

"Yes," he said, lifting his head again. "I tried to be that, and,
for Letty's sake, had pity on the most forlorn, patience with the
most abandoned; always remembering that she might have been what
they were, if death had not been more merciful than I."

"But she was not dead: she was alive and working as bravely as you.
Ah, how little I thought, when I loved Rachel, and she loved me,
that we should ever meet so happily as we soon shall. Tell me how
you found her? Does she know I am the woman she once saved? Tell me
all about her; and tell it fast," prayed Christie, getting excited,
as she more fully grasped the happy fact that Rachel and Letty were
one.

David came nearer, and his face kindled as he spoke. "The ship
sailed without her; she came later; and, finding that her name was
among the lost, she did not deny it, for she was dead to us, and
decided to remain so till she had earned the right to be forgiven.
You know how she lived and worked, stood firm with no one to
befriend her till you came, and, by years of patient well-doing,
washed away her single sin. If any one dares think I am ashamed to
own her now, let him know what cause I have to be proud of her; let
him come and see how tenderly I love her; how devoutly I thank God
for permitting me to find and bring my little Letty home."

Only the snow-flakes drifting against the window-pane, and the
wailing of the wind, was heard for a moment; then David added, with
brightening eyes and a glad voice:

"I went into a hospital while away, to look after one of my poor
girls who had been doing well till illness brought her there. As I
was passing out I saw a sleeping face, and stopped involuntarily: it
was so like Letty's. I never doubted she was dead; the name over the
bed was not hers; the face was sadly altered from the happy, rosy
one I knew, but it held me fast; and as I paused the eyes
opened,--Letty's own soft eyes,--they saw me, and, as if I was the
figure of a dream, she smiled, put up her arms and said, just as she
used to say, a child, when I woke her in her little bed--'Why,
Davy!'--I can't tell any more,--only that when I brought her home
and put her in mother's arms, I felt as if I was forgiven at last."

He broke down there, and went and stood behind the window curtains,
letting no one see the grateful tears that washed away the
bitterness of those long years.

Christie had taken up the miniature and was looking at it, while her
heart sang for joy that the lost was found, when David came back to
her, wearing the same look she had seen the night she listened among
the cloaks. Moved and happy, with eager eyes and ardent manner, yet
behind it all a pale expectancy as if some great crisis was at hand:

"Christie, I never can forget that when all others, even I, cast
Letty off, you comforted and saved her. What can I do to thank you
for it?"

"Be my friend, and let me be hers again," she answered, too deeply
moved to think of any private hope or pain.

"Then the past, now that you know it all, does not change your heart
to us?"

"It only makes you dearer."

"And if I asked you to come back to the home that has been desolate
since you went, would you come?"

"Gladly, David."

"And if I dared to say I loved you?"

She only looked at him with a quick rising light and warmth over her
whole face; he stretched both arms to her, and, going to him,
Christie gave her answer silently.

Lovers usually ascend straight into the seventh heaven for a time:
unfortunately they cannot stay long; the air is too rarefied, the
light too brilliant, the fare too ethereal, and they are forced to
come down to mundane things, as larks drop from heaven's gate into
their grassy nests. David was summoned from that blissful region,
after a brief enjoyment of its divine delights, by Christie, who
looked up from her new refuge with the abrupt question:

"What becomes of Kitty?"

He regarded her with a dazed expression for an instant, for she had
been speaking the delightful language of lips and eyes that lovers
use, and the old tongue sounded harsh to him.

"She is safe with her father, and is to marry the 'other one' next
week."

"Heaven be praised!" ejaculated Christie, so fervently that David
looked suddenly enlightened and much amused, as he said quickly:
"What becomes of Fletcher?" "He's safely out of the way, and I
sincerely hope he will marry some 'other one' as soon as possible."
"Christie, you were jealous of that girl." "David, you were jealous
of that man." Then they both burst out laughing like two children,
for heavy burdens had been lifted off their hearts and they were
bubbling over with happiness.

"But truly, David, weren't you a little jealous of P. F.?" persisted
Christie, feeling an intense desire to ask all manner of harassing
questions, with the agreeable certainty that they would be fully
answered.

"Desperately jealous. You were so kind, so gay, so altogether
charming when with him, that I could not stand by and see it, so I
kept away. Why were you never so to me?"

"Because you never showed that you cared for me, and he did. But it
was wrong in me to do it, and I repent of it heartily; for it hurt
him more than I thought it would when the experiment failed. I truly
tried to love him, but I couldn't."

"Yet he had so much to offer, and could give you all you most enjoy.
It is very singular that you failed to care for him, and preferred a
poor old fellow like me," said David, beaming at her like a
beatified man.

"I do love luxury and pleasure, but I love independence more. I'm
happier poking in the dirt with you than I should be driving in a
fine carriage with 'that piece of elegance' as Mr. Power called him;
prouder of being your wife than his; and none of the costly things
he offered me were half so precious in my sight as your little
nosegays, now mouldering away in my treasure-box upstairs. Why,
Davy, I've longed more intensely for the right to push up the curly
lock that is always tumbling into your eyes, than for Philip's whole
fortune. May I do it now?"

"You may," and Christie did it with a tender satisfaction that made
David love her the more, though he laughed like a boy at the womanly
whim.

"And so you thought I cared for Kitty?" he said presently, taking
his turn at the new game.

"How could I help it when she was so young and pretty and fond of
you?"

"Was she?" innocently.

"Didn't you see it? How blind men are!"

"Not always."

"David, did you see that I cared for you?" asked Christie, turning
crimson under the significant glance he gave her.

"I wish I had; I confess I once or twice fancied that I caught
glimpses of bliss round the corner, as it were; but, before I could
decide, the glimpses vanished, and I was very sure I was a conceited
coxcomb to think it for a moment. It was very hard, and yet I was
glad."

"Glad!"

"Yes, because I had made a sort of vow that I'd never love or marry
as a punishment for my cruelty to Letty."

"That was wrong, David."

"I see it now; but it was not hard to keep that foolish vow till you
came; and you see I've broken it without a shadow of regret
to-night."

"You might have done it months ago and saved me so much woe if you
had not been a dear, modest, morbidly conscientious bat," sighed
Christie, pleased and proud to learn her power, yet sorry for the
long delay.

"Thank you, love. You see I didn't find out why I liked my friend so
well till I lost her. I had just begun to feel that you were very
dear,--for after the birthday you were like an angel in the house,
Christie,--when you changed all at once, and I thought you suspected
me, and didn't like it. Your running away when Kitty came confirmed
my fear; then in came that--would you mind if I said--confounded
Fletcher?"

"Not in the least."

"Well, as he didn't win, I won't be hard on him; but I gave up then
and had a tough time of it; especially that first night when this
splendid lover appeared and received such a kind welcome."

Christie saw the strong hand that lay on David's knee clenched
slowly, as he knit his brows with a grim look, plainly showing that
he was not what she was inclined to think him, a perfect saint.

"Oh, my heart! and there I was loving you so dearly all the time,
and you wouldn't see or speak or understand, but went away, left me
to torment all three of us," cried Christie with a tragic gesture.

"My dearest girl, did you ever know a man in love do, say, or think
the right thing at the right time? I never did," said David, so
penitently that she forgave him on the spot.

"Never mind, dear. It has taught us the worth of love, and perhaps
we are the better for the seeming waste of precious time. Now I've
not only got you but Letty also, and your mother is mine in very
truth. Ah, how rich I am!"

"But I thought it was all over with me when I found Letty, because,
seeing no more of Fletcher, I had begun to hope again, and when she
came back to me I knew my home must be hers, yet feared you would
refuse to share it if you knew all. You are very proud, and the
purest-hearted woman I ever knew."

"And if I had refused, you would have let me go and held fast to
Letty?"

"Yes, for I owe her every thing."

"You should have known me better, David. But I don't refuse, and
there is no need to choose between us."

"No, thank heaven, and you, my Christie! Imagine what I felt when
Letty told me all you had been to her. If any thing could make me
love you more than I now do, it would be that! No, don't hide your
face; I like to see it blush and smile and turn to me confidingly,
as it has not done all these long months."

"Did Letty tell you what she had done for me?" asked Christie,
looking more like a rose than ever Kitty did.

"She told me every thing, and wished me to tell you all her story,
even the saddest part of it. I'd better do it now before you meet
again."

He paused as if the tale was hard to tell; but Christie put her hand
on his lips saying softly:

"Never tell it; let her past be as sacred as if she were dead. She
was my friend when I had no other: she is my dear sister now, and
nothing can ever change the love between us."

If she had thought David's face beautiful with gratitude when he
told the happier portions of that history, she found it doubly so
when she spared him the recital of its darkest chapter, and bade him
"leave the rest to silence."

"Now you will come home? Mother wants you, Letty longs for you, and
I have got and mean to keep you all my life, God willing!"

"I'd better die to-night and make a blessed end, for so much
happiness is hardly possible in a world of woe," answered Christie
to that fervent invitation.

"We shall be married very soon, take a wedding trip to any part of
the world you like, and our honeymoon will last for ever, Mrs.
Sterling, Jr.," said David, soaring away into the future with
sublime disregard of obstacles.

Before Christie could get her breath after that somewhat startling
announcement, Mr. Power appeared, took in the situation at a glance,
gave them a smile that was a benediction, and said heartily as he
offered a hand to each:

"Now I'm satisfied; I've watched and waited patiently, and after
many tribulations you have found each other in good time;" then with
a meaning look at Christie he added slyly: "But David is 'no hero'
you know."

She remembered the chat in the strawberry bed, laughed, and colored
brightly, as she answered with her hand trustfully in David's, her
eyes full of loving pride and reverence lifted to his face:

"I've seen both sides of the medal now, and found it 'sterling
gold.' Hero or not I'm content; for, though he 'loves his mother
much,' there is room in his heart for me too; his 'old books' have
given him something better than learning, and he has convinced me
that 'double flowers' are loveliest and best."






CHAPTER XVI.

MUSTERED IN.





CHRISTIE'S return was a very happy one, and could not well be
otherwise with a mother, sister, and lover to welcome her back. Her
meeting with Letty was indescribably tender, and the days that
followed were pretty equally divided between her and her brother, in
nursing the one and loving the other. There was no cloud now in
Christie's sky, and all the world seemed in bloom. But even while
she enjoyed every hour of life, and begrudged the time given to
sleep, she felt as if the dream was too beautiful to last, and often
said:

"Something will happen: such perfect happiness is not possible in
this world."

"Then let us make the most of it," David would reply, wisely bent on
getting his honey while he could, and not borrowing trouble for the
morrow.

So Christie turned a deaf ear to her "prophetic soul," and gave
herself up to the blissful holiday that had come at last. Even while
March winds were howling outside, she blissfully "poked in the dirt"
with David in the green-house, put up the curly lock as often as she
liked, and told him she loved him a dozen times a day, not in words,
but in silent ways, that touched him to the heart, and made his
future look so bright he hardly dared believe in it.

A happier man it would have been difficult to find just then; all
his burdens seemed to have fallen off, and his spirits rose again
with an elasticity which surprised even those who knew him best.
Christie often stopped to watch and wonder if the blithe young man
who went whistling and singing about the house, often stopping to
kiss somebody, to joke, or to exclaim with a beaming face like a
child at a party: "Isn't every thing beautiful?" could be the sober,
steady David, who used to plod to and fro with his shoulders a
little bent, and the absent look in his eyes that told of thoughts
above or beyond the daily task.

It was good to see his mother rejoice over him with an exceeding
great joy; it was better still to see Letty's eyes follow him with
unspeakable love and gratitude in their soft depths; but it was best
of all to see Christie marvel and exult over the discoveries she
made: for, though she had known David for a year, she had never seen
the real man till now.

"Davy, you are a humbug," she said one day when they were making up
a bridal order in the greenhouse.

"I told you so, but you wouldn't believe it," he answered, using
long stemmed rose-buds with as prodigal a hand as if the wedding was
to be his own.

"I thought I was going to marry a quiet, studious, steady-going man;
and here I find myself engaged to a romantic youth who flies about
in the most undignified manner, embraces people behind doors, sings
opera airs,--very much out of tune by the way,--and conducts himself
more like an infatuated Claude Melnotte, than a respectable
gentleman on the awful verge of matrimony. Nothing can surprise me
now: I'm prepared for any thing, even the sight of my Quakerish
lover dancing a jig."

"Just what I've been longing to do! Come and take a turn: it will do
you good;" and, to Christie's utter amazement, David caught her
round the waist and waltzed her down the boarded walk with a speed
and skill that caused less havoc among the flower-pots than one
would imagine, and seemed to delight the plants, who rustled and
nodded as if applauding the dance of the finest double flower that
had ever blossomed in their midst.

"I can't help it, Christie," he said, when he had landed her
breathless and laughing at the other end. "I feel like a boy out of
school, or rather a man out of prison, and must enjoy my liberty in
some way. I'm not a talker, you know; and, as the laws of
gravitation forbid my soaring aloft anywhere, I can only express my
joyfully uplifted state of mind by 'prancing,' as you call it. Never
mind dignity: let's be happy, and by and by I'll sober down."

"I don't want you to; I love to see you so young and happy, only you
are not the old David, and I've got to get acquainted with the new
one."

"I hope you'll like him better than the frost-bitten 'old David' you
first knew and were kind enough to love. Mother says I've gone back
to the time before we lost Letty, and I sometimes feel as if I had.
In that case you will find me a proud, impetuous, ambitious fellow,
Christie, and how will that suit?"

"Excellently; I like pride of your sort; impetuosity becomes you,
for you have learned to control it if need be; and the ambition is
best of all. I always wondered at your want of it, and longed to
stir you up; for you did not seem the sort of man to be contented
with mere creature comforts when there are so many fine things men
may do. What shall you choose, Davy?"

"I shall wait for time to show. The sap is all astir in me, and I'm
ready for my chance. I don't know what it is, but I feel very sure
that some work will be given me into which I can put my whole heart
and soul and strength. I spoilt my first chance; but I know I shall
have another, and, whatever it is, I am ready to do my best, and
live or die for it as God wills."

"So am I," answered Christie, with a voice as earnest and a face as
full of hopeful resolution as his own.

Then they went back to their work, little dreaming as they tied
roses and twined smilax wreaths, how near that other chance was; how
soon they were to be called upon to keep their promise, and how well
each was to perform the part given them in life and death.

The gun fired one April morning at Fort Sumter told many men like
David what their work was to be, and showed many women like Christie
a new right to claim and bravely prove their fitness to possess.

No need to repeat the story of the war begun that day; it has been
so often told that it will only be touched upon here as one of the
experiences of Christie's life, an experience which did for her what
it did for all who took a share in it, and loyally acted their part.

The North woke up from its prosperous lethargy, and began to stir
with the ominous hum of bees when rude hands shake the hive. Rich
and poor were proud to prove that they loved their liberty better
than their money or their lives, and the descendants of the brave
old Puritans were worthy of their race. Many said: "It will soon be
over;" but the wise men, who had warned in vain, shook their heads,
as that first disastrous summer showed that the time for compromise
was past, and the stern reckoning day of eternal justice was at
hand.

To no home in the land did the great trouble bring a more sudden
change than the little cottage in the lane. All its happy peace was
broken; excitement and anxiety, grief and indignation, banished the
sweet home joys and darkened the future that had seemed so clear.
David was sober enough now, and went about his work with a grim set
to his lips, and a spark in his eyes that made the three women look
at one another pale with unspoken apprehension. As they sat
together, picking lint or rolling bandages while David read aloud
some dismal tale of a lost battle that chilled their blood and made
their hearts ache with pity, each woman, listening to the voice that
stirred her like martial music, said within herself: "Sooner or
later he will go, and I have no right to keep him." Each tried to be
ready to make her sacrifice bravely when the time came, and each
prayed that it might not be required of her.

David said little, but they knew by the way he neglected his garden
and worked for the soldiers, that his heart was in the war. Day
after day he left Christie and his sister to fill the orders that
came so often now for flowers to lay on the grave of some dear, dead
boy brought home to his mother in a shroud. Day after day he hurried
away to help Mr. Power in the sanitary work that soon claimed all
hearts and hands; and, day after day, he came home with what
Christie called the "heroic look" more plainly written on his face.
All that first summer, so short and strange; all that first winter,
so long and hard to those who went and those who stayed, David
worked and waited, and the women waxed strong in the new atmosphere
of self-sacrifice which pervaded the air, bringing out the sturdy
virtues of the North.

"How terrible! Oh, when will it be over!" sighed Letty one day,
after hearing a long list of the dead and wounded in one of the
great battles of that second summer.

"Never till we have beaten!" cried David, throwing down the paper
and walking about the room with his head up like a war-horse who
smells powder. "It is terrible and yet glorious. I thank heaven I
live to see this great wrong righted, and only wish I could do my
share like a man."

"That is natural; but there are plenty of men who have fewer ties
than you, who can fight better, and whose places are easier to fill
than yours if they die," said Christie, hastily.

"But the men who have most to lose fight best they say; and to my
thinking a soldier needs a principle as well as a weapon, if he is
to do real service."

"As the only son of a widow, you can't be drafted: that's one
comfort," said Letty, who could not bear to give up the brother lost
to her for so many years.

"I should not wait for that, and I know mother would give her
widow's mite if she saw that it was needed."

"Yes, Davy." The soft, old voice answered steadily; but the feeble
hand closed instinctively on the arm of this only son, who was so
dear to her. David held it close in both of his, saying gratefully:
"Thank you, mother;" then, fixing his eyes on the younger yet not
dearer women, he added with a ring in his voice that made their
hearts answer with a prompt "Ay, ay!" in spite of love or fear:

"Now listen, you dear souls, and understand that, if I do this
thing, I shall not do it hastily, nor without counting well the
cost. My first and most natural impulse was to go in the beginning;
but I stayed for your sakes. I saw I was not really needed: I
thought the war would soon be over, and those who went then could do
the work. You see how mistaken we were, and God only knows when the
end will come. The boys--bless their brave hearts!--have done nobly,
but older men are needed now. We cannot sacrifice all the gallant
lads; and we who have more to lose than they must take our turn and
try to do as well. You own this; I see it in your faces: then don't
hold me back when the time comes for me to go. I must do my part,
however small it is, or I shall never feel as if I deserved the love
you give me. You will let me go, I am sure, and not regret that I
did what seemed to me a solemn duty, leaving the consequences to the
Lord!"

"Yes, David," sister and sweetheart answered, bravely forgetting in
the fervor of the moment what heavy consequences God might see fit
to send.

"Good! I knew my Spartans would be ready, and I won't disgrace them.
I've waited more than a year, and done what I could. But all the
while I felt that I was going to get a chance at the hard work, and
I've been preparing for it. Bennet will take the garden and
green-house off my hands this autumn for a year or longer, if I
like. He's a kind, neighborly man, and his boy will take my place
about the house and protect you faithfully. Mr. Power cannot be
spared to go as chaplain, though he longs to desperately; so he is
near in case of need, and with your two devoted daughters by you,
mother, I surely can be spared for a little while."

"Only one daughter near her, David: I shall enlist when you do,"
said Christie, resolutely.

"You mean it?"

"I mean it as honestly as you do. I knew you would go: I saw you
getting ready, and I made up my mind to follow. I, too, have
prepared for it, and even spoken to Mrs. Amory. She has gone as
matron of a hospital, and promised to find a place for me when I was
ready. The day you enlist I shall write and tell her I am ready."

There was fire in Christie's eyes and a flush on her cheek now, as
she stood up with the look of a woman bent on doing well her part.
David caught her hands in his, regardless of the ominous bandages
they held, and said, with tender admiration and reproach in his
voice:

"You wouldn't marry me when I asked you this summer, fearing you
would be a burden to me; but now you want to share hardship and
danger with me, and support me by the knowledge of your nearness.
Dear, ought I to let you do it?"

"You will let me do it, and in return I will marry you whenever you
ask me," answered Christie, sealing the promise with a kiss that
silenced him.

He had been anxious to be married long ago, but when he asked Mr.
Power to make him happy, a month after his engagement, that wise
friend said to them:

"I don't advise it yet. You have tried and proved one another as
friends, now try and prove one another as lovers; then, if you feel
that all is safe and happy, you will be ready for the greatest of
the three experiments, and then in God's name marry."

"We will," they said, and for a year had been content, studying one
another, finding much to love, and something to learn in the art of
bearing and forbearing.

David had begun to think they had waited long enough, but Christie
still delayed, fearing she was not worthy, and secretly afflicted by
the thought of her poverty. She had so little to give in return for
all she received that it troubled her, and she was sometimes tempted
to ask Uncle Enos for a modest marriage portion. She never had yet,
and now resolved to ask nothing, but to earn her blessing by doing
her share in the great work.

"I shall remember that," was all David answered to that last promise
of hers, and three months later he took her at her word.

For a week or two they went on in the old way; Christie did her
housework with her head full of new plans, read books on nursing,
made gruel, plasters, and poultices, till Mrs. Sterling pronounced
her perfect; and dreamed dreams of a happy time to come when peace
had returned, and David was safe at home with all the stars and bars
a man could win without dying for them.

David set things in order, conferred with Bennet, petted his
womankind, and then hurried away to pack boxes of stores, visit
camps, and watch departing regiments with a daily increasing
certainty that his time had come.

One September day he went slowly home, and, seeing Christie in the
garden, joined her, helped her finish matting up some delicate
shrubs, put by the tools, and when all was done said with unusual
gentleness:

"Come and walk a little in the lane."

She put her arm in his, and answered quickly:

"You've something to tell me: I see it in your face."

"Dear, I must go."

"Yes, David."

"And you?"

"I go too."

"Yes, Christie."

That was all: she did not offer to detain him now; he did not deny
her right to follow. They looked each other bravely in the face a
moment, seeing, acknowledging the duty and the danger, yet ready to
do the one and dare the other, since they went together. Then
shoulder to shoulder, as if already mustered in, these faithful
comrades marched to and fro, planning their campaign.

Next evening, as Mrs. Sterling sat alone in the twilight, a tall man
in army blue entered quietly, stood watching the tranquil figure for
a moment, then went and knelt down beside it, saying, with a most
unsoldierly choke in the voice:

"I've done it, mother: tell me you're not sorry."

But the little Quaker cap went down on the broad shoulder, and the
only answer he heard was a sob that stirred the soft folds over the
tender old heart that clung so closely to the son who had lived for
her so long. What happened in the twilight no one ever knew; but
David received promotion for bravery in a harder battle than any he
was going to, and from his mother's breast a decoration more
precious to him than the cross of the Legion of Honor from a royal
hand.

When Mr. Power presently came in, followed by the others, they found
their soldier standing very erect in his old place on the rug, with
the firelight gleaming on his bright buttons, and Bran staring at
him with a perplexed aspect; for the uniform, shorn hair, trimmed
beard, and a certain lofty carriage of the head so changed his
master that the sagacious beast was disturbed.

Letty smiled at him approvingly, then went to comfort her mother who
could not recover her tranquillity so soon. But Christie stood
aloof, looking at her lover with something more than admiration in
the face that kindled beautifully as she exclaimed:

"O David, you are splendid! Once I was so blind I thought you plain;
but now my 'boy in blue' is the noblest looking man I ever saw. Yes,
Mr. Power, I've found my hero at last! Here he is, my knight without
reproach or fear, going out to take his part in the grandest battle
ever fought. I wouldn't keep him if I could; I'm glad and proud to
have him go; and if he never should come back to me I can bear it
better for knowing that he dutifully did his best, and left the
consequences to the Lord."

Then, having poured out the love and pride and confidence that
enriched her sacrifice, she broke down and clung to him, weeping as
so many clung and wept in those hard days when men and women gave
their dearest, and those who prayed and waited suffered almost as
much as those who fought and died.

When the deed was once done, it was astonishing what satisfaction
they all took in it, how soon they got accustomed to the change, and
what pride they felt in "our soldier." The loyal frenzy fell upon
the three quiet women, and they could not do too much for their
country. Mrs. Sterling cut up her treasured old linen without a
murmur; Letty made "comfort bags" by the dozen, put up jelly, and
sewed on blue jackets with tireless industry; while Christie
proclaimed that if she had twenty lovers she would send them all;
and then made preparations enough to nurse the entire party.

David meantime was in camp, getting his first taste of martial life,
and not liking it any better than he thought he should; but no one
heard a complaint, and he never regretted his "love among the
roses," for he was one of the men who had a "principle as well as a
weapon," and meant to do good service with both.

It would have taken many knapsacks to hold all the gifts showered
upon him by his friends and neighbors. He accepted all that came,
and furnished forth those of his company who were less favored.
Among these was Elisha Wilkins, and how he got there should be told.

Elisha had not the slightest intention of enlisting, but Mrs.
Wilkins was a loyal soul, and could not rest till she had sent a
substitute, since she could not go herself. Finding that Lisha
showed little enthusiasm on the subject, she tried to rouse him by
patriotic appeals of various sorts. She read stirring accounts of
battles, carefully omitting the dead and wounded; she turned out,
baby and all if possible, to cheer every regiment that left; and was
never tired of telling Wash how she wished she could add ten years
to his age and send him off to fight for his country like a man.

But nothing seemed to rouse the supine Elisha, who chewed his quid
like a placid beast of the field, and showed no sign of a proper
spirit.

"Very well," said Mrs. Wilkins resolutely to herself, "ef I can't
make no impression on his soul I will on his stommick, and see how
that'll work."

Which threat she carried out with such skill and force that Lisha
was effectually waked up, for he was "partial to good vittles," and
Cynthy was a capital cook. Poor rations did not suit him, and he
demanded why his favorite dishes were not forthcoming.

"We can't afford no nice vittles now when our men are sufferin' so.
I should be ashamed to cook 'em, and expect to choke tryin' to eat
'em. Every one is sacrificin' somethin', and we mustn't be slack in
doin' our part,--the Lord knows it's precious little,--and there
won't be no stuffin' in this house for a consid'able spell. Ef I
could save up enough to send a man to do my share of the fightin', I
should be proud to do it. Anyway I shall stint the family and send
them dear brave fellers every cent I can git without starvin' the
children."

"Now, Cynthy, don't be ferce. Things will come out all right, and it
ain't no use upsettin' every thing and bein' so darned
uncomfortable," answered Mr. Wilkins with unusual energy.

"Yes it is, Lisha. No one has a right to be comfortable in such
times as these, and this family ain't goin' to be ef I can help it,"
and Mrs. Wilkins set down her flat-iron with a slam which plainly
told her Lisha war was declared.

He said no more but fell a thinking. He was not as unmoved as he
seemed by the general excitement, and had felt sundry manly impulses
to "up and at 'em," when his comrades in the shop discussed the
crisis with ireful brandishing of awls, and vengeful pounding of
sole leather, as if the rebels were under the hammer. But the
selfish, slothful little man could not make up his mind to brave
hardship and danger, and fell back on his duty to his family as a
reason for keeping safe at home.

But now that home was no longer comfortable, now that Cynthy had
sharpened her tongue, and turned "ferce," and now--hardest blow of
all--that he was kept on short commons, he began to think he might
as well be on the tented field, and get a little glory along with
the discomfort if that was inevitable. Nature abhors a vacuum, and
when food fell short patriotism had a chance to fill the aching
void. Lisha had about made up his mind, for he knew the value of
peace and quietness; and, though his wife was no scold, she was the
ruling power, and in his secret soul he considered her a very
remarkable woman. He knew what she wanted, but was not going to be
hurried for anybody; so he still kept silent, and Mrs. Wilkins began
to think she must give it up. An unexpected ally appeared however,
and the good woman took advantage of it to strike one last blow.

Lisha sat eating a late breakfast one morning, with a small son at
either elbow, waiting for stray mouthfuls and committing petty
larcenies right and left, for Pa was in a brown study. Mrs. Wilkins
was frying flap-jacks, and though this is not considered an heroical
employment she made it so that day. This was a favorite dish of
Lisha's, and she had prepared it as a bait for this cautious fish.
To say that the fish rose at once and swallowed the bait, hook and
all, but feebly expresses the justice done to the cakes by that
long-suffering man. Waiting till he had a tempting pile of the
lightest, brownest flapjacks ever seen upon his plate, and was
watching an extra big bit of butter melt luxuriously into the warm
bosom of the upper one, with a face as benign as if some of the
molasses he was trickling over them had been absorbed into his
nature, Mrs. Wilkins seized the propitious moment to say
impressively:

"David Sterlin' has enlisted!"

"Sho! has he, though?"

"Of course he has! any man with the spirit of a muskeeter would."

"Well, he ain't got a family, you see."

"He's got his old mother, that sister home from furrin' parts
somewheres, and Christie just going to be married. I should like to
know who's got a harder family to leave than that?"

"Six young children is harder: ef I went fifin' and drummin' off,
who 'd take care of them I'd like to know?"

"I guess I could support the family ef I give my mind to it;" and
Mrs. Wilkins turned a flapjack with an emphasis that caused her lord
to bolt a hot triangle with dangerous rapidity; for well he knew
very little of his money went into the common purse. She never
reproached him, but the fact nettled him now; and something in the
tone of her voice made that sweet morsel hard to swallow.

"'Pears to me you 're in ruther a hurry to be a widder, Cynthy,
shovin' me off to git shot in this kind of a way," growled Lisha,
ill at ease.

"I'd ruther be a brave man's widder than a coward's wife, any day!"
cried the rebellious Cynthy: then she relented, and softly slid two
hot cakes into his plate; adding, with her hand upon his shoulder,
"Lisha, dear, I want to be proud of my husband as other women be of
theirs. Every one gives somethin', I've only got you, and I want to
do my share, and do it hearty."

She went back to her work, and Mr. Wilkins sat thoughtfully stroking
the curly heads beside him, while the boys ravaged his plate, with
no reproof, but a half audible, "My little chaps, my little chaps!"

She thought she had got him, and smiled to herself, even while a
great tear sputtered on the griddle at those last words of his.

Imagine her dismay, when, having consumed the bait, her fish gave
signs of breaking the line, and escaping after all; for Mr. Wilkins
pushed back his chair, and said slowly, as he filled his pipe:

"I'm blest ef I can see the sense of a lot of decent men going off
to be froze, and starved, and blowed up jest for them confounded
niggers."

He got no further, for his wife's patience gave out; and, leaving
her cakes to burn black, she turned to him with a face glowing like
her stove, and cried out:

"Lisha, ain't you got no heart? can you remember what Hepsey told
us, and call them poor, long-sufferin' creeters names? Can you think
of them wretched wives sold from their husbands; them children as
clear as ourn tore from their mothers; and old folks kep slavin
eighty long, hard years with no pay, no help, no pity, when they git
past work? Lisha Wilkins, look at that, and say no ef you darst!"

Mrs. Wilkins was a homely woman in an old calico gown, but her face,
her voice, her attitude were grand, as she flung wide the door of
the little back bedroom. and pointed with her tin spatula to the
sight beyond.

Only Hepsey sitting by a bed where lay what looked more like a
shrivelled mummy than a woman. Ah! but it was that old mother worked
and waited for so long: blind now, and deaf; childish, and half dead
with many hardships, but safe and free at last; and Hepsey's black
face was full of a pride, a peace, and happiness more eloquent and
touching than any speech or sermon ever uttered.

Mr. Wilkins had heard her story, and been more affected by it than
he would confess: now it came home to him with sudden force; the
thought of his own mother, wife, or babies torn from him stirred him
to the heart, and the manliest emotion he had ever known caused him
to cast his pipe at his feet, put on his hat with an energetic slap,
and walk out of the house, wearing an expression on his usually
wooden face that caused his wife to clap her hands and cry
exultingly:

"I thought that would fetch him!"

Then she fell to work like an inspired woman; and at noon a
sumptuous dinner "smoked upon the board;" the children were scrubbed
till their faces shone; and the room was as fresh and neat as any
apartment could be with the penetrating perfume of burnt flapjacks
still pervading the air, and three dozen ruffled nightcaps
decorating the clothes-lines overhead.

"Tell me the instant minute you see Pa a comin', and I'll dish up
the gravy," was Mrs. Wilkins's command, as she stepped in with a cup
of tea for old "Harm," as she called Hepsey's mother.

"He's a comin', Ma!" called Gusty, presently.

"No, he ain't: it's a trainer," added Ann Lizy.

"Yes, 'tis Pa! oh, my eye! ain't he stunnin'!" cried Wash, stricken
for the first time with admiration of his sire.

Before Mrs. Wilkins could reply to these conflicting rumors her
husband walked in, looking as martial as his hollow chest and thin
legs permitted, and, turning his cap nervously in his hands, said
half-proudly, half-reproachfully:

"Now, Cynthy, be you satisfied?"

"Oh, my Lisha! I be, I be!" and the inconsistent woman fell upon his
buttony breast weeping copiously.

If ever a man was praised and petted, admired and caressed, it was
Elisha Wilkins that day. His wife fed him with the fat of the land,
regardless of consequences; his children revolved about him with
tireless curiosity and wonder; his neighbors flocked in to applaud,
advise, and admire; every one treated him with a respect most
grateful to his feelings; he was an object of interest, and with
every hour his importance increased, so that by night he felt like a
Commander-in-Chief, and bore himself accordingly. He had enlisted in
David's regiment, which was a great comfort to his wife; for though
her stout heart never failed her, it grew very heavy at times; and
when Lisha was gone, she often dropped a private tear over the
broken pipe that always lay in its old place, and vented her
emotions by sending baskets of nourishment to Private Wilkins, which
caused that bandy-legged warrior to be much envied and cherished by
his mates.

"I'm glad I done it; for it will make a man of Lisha; and, if I've
sent him to his death, God knows he'll be fitter to die than if he
stayed here idlin' his life away."

Then the good soul openly shouldered the burden she had borne so
long in secret, and bravely trudged on alone.

"Another great battle!" screamed the excited news-boys in the
streets. "Another great battle!" read Letty in the cottage parlor.
"Another great battle!" cried David, coming in with the war-horse
expression on his face a month or two after he enlisted.

The women dropped their work to look and listen; for his visits were
few and short, and every instant was precious. When the first
greetings were over, David stood silent an instant, and a sudden
mist came over his eyes as he glanced from one beloved face to
another; then he threw back his head with the old impatient gesture,
squared his shoulders, and said in a loud, cheerful voice, with a
suspicious undertone of emotion in it, however:

"My precious people, I've got something to tell you: are you ready?"

They knew what it was without a word. Mrs. Sterling clasped her
hands and bowed her head. Letty turned pale and dropped her work;
but Christie's eyes kindled, as she answered with a salute:

"Ready, my General."

"We are ordered off at once, and go at four this afternoon. I've got
a three hours' leave to say good-by in. Now, let's be brave and
enjoy every minute of it."

"We will: what can I do for you, Davy?" asked Christie, wonderfully
supported by the thought that she was going too.

"Keep your promise, dear," he answered, while the warlike expression
changed to one of infinite tenderness.

"What promise?"

"This;" and he held out his hand with a little paper in it. She saw
it was a marriage license, and on it lay a wedding-ring. She did not
hesitate an instant, but laid her own hand in his, and answered with
her heart in her face:

"I'll keep it, David."

"I knew you would!" then holding her close he said in a tone that
made it very hard for her to keep steady, as she had vowed she would
do to the last: "I know it is much to ask, but I want to feel that
you are mine before I go. Not only that, but it will be a help and
protection to you, dear, when you follow. As a married woman you
will get on better, as my wife you will be allowed to come to me if
I need you, and as my"--he stopped there, for he could not add--"as
my widow you will have my pension to support you."

She understood, put both arms about his neck as if to keep him safe,
and whispered fervently:

"Nothing can part us any more, not even death; for love like ours
will last for ever."

"Then you are quite willing to try the third great experiment?"

"Glad and proud to do it." "With no doubt, no fear, to mar your
consent." "Not one, David." "That's true love, Christie!"

Then they stood quite still for a time, and in the silence the two
hearts talked together in the sweet language no tongue can utter.
Presently David said regretfully:

"I meant it should be so different. I always planned that we'd be
married some bright summer day, with many friends about us; then
take a happy little journey somewhere together, and come back to
settle down at home in the dear old way. Now it's all so hurried,
sorrowful, and strange. A dull November day; no friends but Mr.
Power, who will be here soon; no journey but my march to Washington
alone; and no happy coming home together in this world perhaps. Can
you bear it, love?"

"Have no fear for me: I feel as if I could bear any thing just now;
for I've got into a heroic mood and I mean to keep so as long as I
can. I've always wanted to live in stirring times, to have a part in
great deeds, to sacrifice and suffer something for a principle or a
person; and now I have my wish. I like it, David: it's a grand time
to live, a splendid chance to do and suffer; and I want to be in it
heart and soul, and earn a little of the glory or the martyrdom that
will come in the end. Surely I shall if I give you and myself to the
cause; and I do it gladly, though I know that my heart has got to
ache as it never has ached yet, when my courage fails, as it will by
and by, and my selfish soul counts the cost of my offering after the
excitement is over. Help me to be brave and strong, David: don't let
me complain or regret, but show me what lies beyond, and teach me to
believe that simply doing the right is reward and happiness enough."

Christie was lifted out of herself for the moment, and looked
inspired by the high mood which was but the beginning of a nobler
life for her. David caught the exaltation, and gave no further
thought to any thing but the duty of the hour, finding himself
stronger and braver for that long look into the illuminated face of
the woman he loved.

"I'll try," was all his answer to her appeal; then proved that he
meant it by adding, with his lips against her cheek: "I must go to
mother and Letty. We leave them behind, and they must be comforted."

He went, and Christie vanished to make ready for her wedding,
conscious, in spite of her exalted state of mind, that every thing
was very hurried, sad, and strange, and very different from the
happy day she had so often planned.

"No matter, we are 'well on't for love,' and that is all we really
need," she thought, recalling with a smile Mrs. Wilkins's advice.

"David sends you these, dear. Can I help in any way?" asked Letty,
coming with a cluster of lovely white roses in her hand, and a world
of affection in her eyes.

"I thought he'd give me violets," and a shadow came over Christie's
face.

"But they are mourning flowers, you know."

"Not to me. The roses are, for they remind me of poor Helen, and the
first work I did with David was arranging flowers like these for a
dead baby's little coffin."

"My dearest Christie, don't be superstitious: all brides wear roses,
and Davy thought you'd like them," said Letty, troubled at her
words.

"Then I'll wear them, and I won't have fancies if I can help it. But
I think few brides dress with a braver, happier heart than mine,
though I do choose a sober wedding-gown," answered Christie, smiling
again, as she took from a half-packed trunk her new hospital suit of
soft, gray, woollen stuff.

"Won't you wear the pretty silvery silk we like so well?" asked
Letty timidly, for something in Christie's face and manner impressed
her very much.

"No, I will be married in my uniform as David is," she answered with
a look Letty long remembered.

"Mr. Power has come," she said softly a few minutes later, with an
anxious glance at the clock.

"Go dear, I'll come directly. But first"--and Christie held her
friend close a moment, kissed her tenderly, and whispered in a
broken voice: "Remember, I don't take his heart from you, I only
share it with my sister and my mother."

"I'm glad to give him to you, Christie; for now I feel as if I had
partly paid the great debt I've owed so long," answered Letty
through her tears.

Then she went away, and Christie soon followed, looking very like a
Quaker bride in her gray gown with no ornament but delicate frills
at neck and wrist, and the roses in her bosom.

"No bridal white, dear?" said David, going to her.

"Only this," and she touched the flowers, adding with her hand on
the blue coat sleeve that embraced her: "I want to consecrate my
uniform as you do yours by being married in it. Isn't it fitter for
a soldier's wife than lace and silk at such a time as this?"

"Much fitter: I like it; and I find you beautiful, my Christie,"
whispered David, as she put one of her roses in his button-hole.

"Then I'm satisfied."

"Mr. Power is waiting: are you ready, love?"

"Quite ready."

Then they were married, with Letty and her mother standing beside
them, Bennet and his wife dimly visible in the door-way, and poor
Bran at his master's feet, looking up with wistful eyes, half human
in the anxious affection they expressed.

Christie never forgot that service, so simple, sweet, and solemn;
nor the look her husband gave her at the end, when he kissed her on
lips and forehead, saying fervently, "God bless my wife!"

A tender little scene followed that can better be imagined than
described; then Mr. Power said cheerily:

"One hour more is all you have, so make the most of it, dearly
beloved. You young folks take a wedding-trip to the green-house,
while we see how well we can get on without you."

"THEN THEY WERE MARRIED."

David and Christie went smiling away together, and if they shed any
tears over the brief happiness no one saw them but the flowers, and
they loyally kept the secret folded up in their tender hearts.

Mr. Power cheered the old lady, while Letty, always glad to serve,
made ready the last meal David might ever take at home.

A very simple little marriage feast, but more love, good-will, and
tender wishes adorned the plain table than is often found at wedding
breakfasts; and better than any speech or song was Letty's broken
whisper, as she folded her arms round David's empty chair when no
one saw her, "Heaven bless and keep and bring him back to us."

How time went that day! The inexorable clock would strike twelve so
soon, and then the minutes flew till one was at hand, and the last
words were still half said, the last good-byes still unuttered.

"I must go!" cried David with a sort of desperation, as Letty clung
to one arm, Christie to the other.

"I shall see you soon: good-by, rny husband," whispered Christie,
setting him free.

"Give the last kiss to mother," added Letty, following her example,
and in another minute David was gone.

At the turn of the lane, he looked back and swung his cap; all waved
their hands to him; and then he marched away to the great work
before him, leaving those loving hearts to ask the unanswerable
question: "How will he come home?"

Christie was going to town to see the regiment off, and soon
followed with Mr. Power. They went early to a certain favorable
spot, and there found Mrs. Wilkins, with her entire family perched
upon a fence, on the spikes of which they impaled themselves at
intervals, and had to be plucked off by the stout girl engaged to
assist in this memorable expedition.

"Yes, Lisha 's goin', and I was bound he should see every one of his
blessed children the last thing, ef I took 'em all on my back. He
knows where to look, and he's a goin' to see seven cheerful faces as
he goes by. Time enough to cry byme by; so set stiddy, boys, and
cheer loud when you see Pa," said Mrs. Wilkins, fanning her hot
face, and utterly forgetting her cherished bonnet in the excitement
of the moment.

"I hear drums! They're comin'!" cried Wash, after a long half hour's
waiting had nearly driven him frantic.

The two younger boys immediately tumbled off the fence, and were
with difficulty restored to their perches. Gusty began to cry, Ann
Elizy to wave a minute red cotton handkerchief, and Adelaide to kick
delightedly in her mother's arms.

"Jane Carter, take this child for massy sake: my legs do tremble so
I can't h'ist her another minute. Hold on to me behind, somebody,
for I must see ef I do pitch into the gutter," cried Mrs. Wilkins,
with a gasp, as she wiped her eyes on her shawl, clutched the
railing, and stood ready to cheer bravely when her conquering hero
came.

Wash had heard drums every five minutes since he arrived, but this
time he was right, and began to cheer the instant a red cockade
appeared at the other end of the long street.

It was a different scene now than in the first enthusiastic, hopeful
days. Young men and ardent boys filled the ranks then, brave by
instinct, burning with loyal zeal, and blissfully ignorant of all
that lay before them.

Now the blue coats were worn by mature men, some gray, all grave and
resolute; husbands and fathers with the memory of wives and children
tugging at their heart-strings; homes left desolate behind them, and
before them the grim certainty of danger, hardship, and perhaps a
captivity worse than death. Little of the glamour of romance about
the war now: they saw what it was, a long, hard task; and here were
the men to do it well.

Even the lookers-on were different. Once all was wild enthusiasm and
glad uproar; now men's lips were set, and women's smileless even as
they cheered; fewer handkerchiefs whitened the air, for wet eyes
needed them; and sudden lulls, almost solemn in their stillness,
followed the acclamations of the crowd. All watched with quickened
breath and proud souls that living wave, blue below, and bright with
a steely glitter above, as it flowed down the street and away to
join the sea of dauntless hearts that for months had rolled up
against the South, and ebbed back reddened with the blood of men
like these.

As the inspiring music, the grand tramp drew near, Christie felt the
old thrill and longed to fall in and follow the flag anywhere. Then
she saw David, and the regiment became one man to her. He was pale,
but his eyes shone, and his whole face expressed that two of the
best and bravest emotions of a man, love and loyalty, were at their
height as he gave his new-made wife a long, lingering look that
seemed to say:

"I could not love thee, dear, so much, Loved I not honor more."

Christie smiled and waved her hand to him, showed him his wedding
roses still on her breast, and bore up as gallantly as he, resolved
that his last impression of her should be a cheerful one. But when
it was all over, and nothing remained but the trampled street, the
hurrying crowd, the bleak November sky, when Mrs. Wilkins sat
sobbing on the steps like Niobe with her children scattered about
her, then Christie's heart gave way, and she hid her face on Mr.
Power's shoulder for a moment, all her ardor quenched in tears as
she cried within herself:

"No, I could not bear it if I was not going too!"






CHAPTER XVII.

THE COLONEL.





TEN years earlier Christie made her dbut as an Amazon, now she had
a braver part to play on a larger stage, with a nation for audience,
martial music and the boom of cannon for orchestra; the glare of
battle-fields was the "red light;" danger, disease, and death, the
foes she was to contend against; and the troupe she joined, not
timid girls, but high-hearted women, who fought gallantly till the
"demon" lay dead, and sang their song of exultation with bleeding
hearts, for this great spectacle was a dire tragedy to them.

Christie followed David in a week, and soon proved herself so
capable that Mrs. Amory rapidly promoted her from one important post
to another, and bestowed upon her the only honors left the women,
hard work, responsibility, and the gratitude of many men.

"You are a treasure, my dear, for you can turn your hand to any
thing and do well whatever you undertake. So many come with plenty
of good-will, but not a particle of practical ability, and are
offended because I decline their help. The boys don't want to be
cried over, or have their brows 'everlastingly swabbed,' as old
Watkins calls it: they want to be well fed and nursed, and cheered
up with creature comforts. Your nice beef-tea and cheery ways are
worth oceans of tears and cart-loads of tracts."

Mrs. Amory said this, as Christie stood waiting while she wrote an
order for some extra delicacy for a very sick patient. Mrs.
Sterling, Jr., certainly did look like an efficient nurse, who
thought more of "the boys" than of herself; for one hand bore a
pitcher of gruel, the other a bag of oranges, clean shirts hung over
the right arm, a rubber cushion under the left, and every pocket in
the big apron was full of bottles and bandages, papers and letters.

"I never discovered what an accomplished woman I was till I came
here," answered Christie, laughing. "I'm getting vain with so much
praise, but I like it immensely, and never was so pleased in my life
as I was yesterday when Dr. Harvey came for me to take care of poor
Dunbar, because no one else could manage him."

"It's your firm yet pitiful way the men like so well. I can't
describe it better than in big Ben's words: 'Mis Sterlin' is the
nuss for me, marm. She takes care of me as ef she was my own mother,
and it's a comfort jest to see her round.' It's a gift, my dear, and
you may thank heaven you have got it, for it works wonders in a
place like this."

"I only treat the poor fellows as I would have other women treat my
David if he should be in their care. He may be any hour, you know."

"And my boys, God keep them!"

The pen lay idle, and the gruel cooled, as young wife and
gray-haired mother forgot their duty for a moment in tender thoughts
of the absent. Only a moment, for in came an attendant with a
troubled face, and an important young surgeon with the well-worn
little case under his arm.

"Bartlett 's dying, marm: could you come and see to him?" says the
man to Mrs. Amory.

"We have got to amputate Porter's arm this morning, and he won't
consent unless you are with him. You will come, of course?" added
the surgeon to Christie, having tried and found her a woman with no
"confounded nerves" to impair her usefulness.

So matron and nurse go back to their duty, and dying Bartlett and
suffering Porter are all the more tenderly served for that wasted
minute.

Like David, Christie had enlisted for the war, and in the two years
that followed, she saw all sorts of service; for Mrs. Amory had
influence, and her right-hand woman, after a few months'
apprenticeship, was ready for any post. The gray gown and comforting
face were known in many hospitals, seen on crowded transports, among
the ambulances at the front, invalid cars, relief tents, and food
depots up and down the land, and many men went out of life like
tired children holding the hand that did its work so well.

David meanwhile was doing his part manfully, not only in some of the
great battles of those years, but among the hardships, temptations,
and sacrifices of a soldiers' life. Spite of his Quaker ancestors,
he was a good fighter, and, better still, a magnanimous enemy,
hating slavery, but not the slave-holder, and often spared the
master while he saved the chattel. He was soon promoted, and might
have risen rapidly, but was content to remain as captain of his
company; for his men loved him, and he was prouder of his influence
over them than of any decoration he could win.

His was the sort of courage that keeps a man faithful to death, and
though he made no brilliant charge, uttered few protestations of
loyalty, and was never heard to "damn the rebs," his comrades felt
that his brave example had often kept them steady till a forlorn
hope turned into a victory, knew that all the wealth of the world
could not bribe him from his duty, and learned of him to treat with
respect an enemy as brave and less fortunate than themselves. A
noble nature soon takes its proper rank and exerts its purifying
influence, and Private Sterling won confidence, affection, and
respect, long before promotion came; for, though he had tended his
flowers like a woman and loved his books like a student, he now
proved that he could also do his duty and keep his honor stainless
as a soldier and a gentleman.

He and Christie met as often as the one could get a brief furlough,
or the other be spared from hospital duty; but when these meetings
did come, they were wonderfully beautiful and rich, for into them
was distilled a concentration of the love, happiness, and communion
which many men and women only know through years of wedded life.

Christie liked romance, and now she had it, with a very sombre
reality to give it an added charm. No Juliet ever welcomed her Romeo
more joyfully than she welcomed David when he paid her a flying
visit unexpectedly; no Bayard ever had a more devoted lady in his
tent than David, when his wife came through every obstacle to bring
him comforts or to nurse the few wounds he received. Love-letters,
written beside watch-fires and sick-beds, flew to and fro like
carrier-doves with wondrous speed; and nowhere in all the brave and
busy land was there a fonder pair than this, although their
honeymoon was spent apart in camp and hospital, and well they knew
that there might never be for them a happy going home together.

In her wanderings to and fro, Christie not only made many new
friends, but met some old ones; and among these one whose unexpected
appearance much surprised and touched her.

She was "scrabbling" eggs in a tin basin on board a crowded
transport, going up the river with the echoes of a battle dying away
behind her, and before her the prospect of passing the next day on a
wharf serving out food to the wounded in an easterly storm.

"O Mrs. Sterling, do go up and see what's to be done! We are all
full below, and more poor fellows are lying about on deck in a
dreadful state. I'll take your place here, but I can't stand that
any longer," said one of her aids, coming in heart-sick and
exhausted by the ghastly sights and terrible confusion of the day.

"I'll go: keep scrabbling while the eggs last, then knock out the
head of that barrel and make gruel till I pass the word to stop."

Forgetting her bonnet, and tying the ends of her shawl behind her,
Christie caught up a bottle of brandy and a canteen of water, and
ran on deck. There a sight to daunt most any woman, met her eyes;
for all about her, so thick that she could hardly step without
treading on them, lay the sad wrecks of men: some moaning for help;
some silent, with set, white faces turned up to the gray sky; all
shelterless from the cold wind that blew, and the fog rising from
the river. Surgeons and nurses were doing their best; but the boat
was loaded, and greater suffering reigned below.

"Heaven help us all!" sighed Christie, and then she fell to work.

Bottle and canteen were both nearly empty by the time she came to
the end of the long line, where lay a silent figure with a hidden
face. "Poor fellow, is he dead?" she said, kneeling down to lift a
corner of the blanket lent by a neighbor.

A familiar face looked up at her, and a well remembered voice said
courteously, but feebly:

"Thanks, not yet. Excuse my left hand. I'm very glad to see you."

"Mr. Fletcher, can it be you!" she cried, looking at him with
pitiful amazement. Well she might ask, for any thing more unlike his
former self can hardly be imagined. Unshaven, haggard, and begrimed
with powder, mud to the knees, coat half on, and, worst of all, the
right arm gone, there lay the "piece of elegance" she had known, and
answered with a smile she never saw before:

"All that's left of me, and very much at your service. I must
apologize for the dirt, but I've laid in a mud-puddle for two days;
and, though it was much easier than a board, it doesn't improve
one's appearance."

"What can I do for you? Where can I put you? I can't bear to see you
here!" said Christie, much afflicted by the spectacle before her.

"Why not? we are all alike when it comes to this pass. I shall do
very well if I might trouble you for a draught of water."

She poured her last drop into his parched mouth and hurried off for
more. She was detained by the way, and, when she returned, fancied
he was asleep, but soon discovered that he had fainted quietly away,
utterly spent with two days of hunger, suffering, and exposure. He
was himself again directly, and lay contentedly looking up at her as
she fed him with hot soup, longing to talk, but refusing to listen
to a word till he was refreshed.

"That's very nice," he said gratefully, as he finished, adding with
a pathetic sort of gayety, as he groped about with his one hand: "I
don't expect napkins, but I should like a handkerchief. They took my
coat off when they did my arm, and the gentleman who kindly lent me
this doesn't seem to have possessed such an article."

Christie wiped his lips with the clean towel at her side, and smiled
as she did it, at the idea of Mr. Fletcher's praising burnt soup,
and her feeding him like a baby out of a tin cup.

"I think it would comfort you if I washed your face: can you bear to
have it done?" she asked.

"If you can bear to do it," he answered, with an apologetic look,
evidently troubled at receiving such services from her.

Yet as her hands moved gently about his face, he shut his eyes, and
there was a little quiver of the lips now and then, as if he was
remembering a time when he had hoped to have her near him in a
tenderer capacity than that of nurse. She guessed the thought, and
tried to banish it by saying cheerfully as she finished:

"There, you look more like yourself after that. Now the hands."

"Fortunately for you, there is but one," and he rather reluctantly
surrendered a very dirty member.

"Forgive me, I forgot. It is a brave hand, and I am proud to wash
it!"

"How do you know that?" he asked, surprised at her little burst of
enthusiasm, for as she spoke she pressed the grimy hand in both her
own.

"While I was recovering you from your faint, that man over there
informed me that you were his Colonel; that you 'fit like a tiger,'
and when your right arm was disabled, you took your sword in the
left and cheered them on as if you 'were bound to beat the whole
rebel army.'"

"That's Drake's story," and Mr. Fletcher tried to give the old
shrug, but gave an irrepressible groan instead, then endeavored to
cover it, by saying in a careless tone, "I thought I might get a
little excitement out of it, so I went soldiering like all the rest
of you. I'm not good for much, but I can lead the way for the brave
fellows who do the work. Officers make good targets, and a rebel
bullet would cause no sorrow in taking me out of the world."

"Don't say that! I should grieve sincerely; and yet I'm very glad
you came, for it will always be a satisfaction to you in spite of
your great loss."

"There are greater losses than right arms," muttered Mr. Fletcher
gloomily, then checked himself, and added with a pleasant change in
voice and face, as he glanced at the wedding-ring she wore:

"This is not exactly the place for congratulations, but I can't help
offering mine; for if I'm not mistaken your left hand also has grown
doubly precious since we met?"

Christie had been wondering if he knew, and was much relieved to
find he took it so well. Her face said more than her words, as she
answered briefly:

"Thank you. Yes, we were married the day David left, and have both
been in the ranks ever since."

"Not wounded yet? your husband, I mean," he said, getting over the
hard words bravely.

"Three times, but not badly. I think a special angel stands before
him with a shield;" and Christie smiled as she spoke.

"I think a special angel stands behind him with prayers that avail
much," added Mr. Fletcher, looking up at her with an expression of
reverence that touched her heart.

"Now I must go to my work, and you to sleep: you need all the rest
you can get before you have to knock about in the ambulances again,"
she said, marking the feverish color in his face, and knowing well
that excitement was his only strength.

"How can I sleep in such an Inferno as this?"

"Try, you are so weak, you'll soon drop off;" and, laying the cool
tips of her fingers on his eyelids, she kept them shut till he
yielded with a long sigh of mingled weariness and pleasure, and was
asleep before he knew it.

When he woke it was late at night; but little of night's blessed
rest was known on board that boat laden with a freight of suffering.
Cries still came up from below, and moans of pain still sounded from
the deck, where shadowy figures with lanterns went to and fro among
the beds that in the darkness looked like graves.

Weak with pain and fever, the poor man gazed about him half
bewildered, and, conscious only of one desire, feebly called
"Christie!"

"Here I am;" and the dull light of a lantern showed him her face
very worn arid tired, but full of friendliest compassion.

"What can I do for you?" she asked, as he clutched her gown, and
peered up at her with mingled doubt and satisfaction in his haggard
eyes.

"Just speak to me; let me touch you: I thought it was a dream; thank
God it isn't. How much longer will this last?" he added, falling
back on the softest pillows she could find for him.

"We shall soon land now; I believe there is an officers' hospital in
the town, and you will be quite comfortable there."

"I want to go to your hospital: where is it?"

"I have none; and, unless the old hotel is ready, I shall stay on
the wharf with the boys until it is."

"Then I shall stay also. Don't send me away, Christie: I shall not
be a trouble long; surely David will let you help me die?" and poor
Fletcher stretched his one hand imploringly to her in the first
terror of the delirium that was coming on.

"I will not leave you: I'll take care of you, and no one can forbid
it. Drink this, Philip, and trust to Christie."

He obeyed like a child, and soon fell again into a troubled sleep
while she sat by him thinking about David.

The old hotel was ready; but by the time he got there Mr. Fletcher
was past caring where he went, and for a week was too ill to know
any thing, except that Christie nursed him. Then he turned the
corner and began to recover. She wanted him to go into more
comfortable quarters; but he would not stir as long as she remained;
so she put him in a little room by himself, got a man to wait on
him, and gave him as much of her care and time as she could spare
from her many duties. He was not an agreeable patient, I regret to
say; he tried to bear his woes heroically, but did not succeed very
well, not being used to any exertion of that sort; and, though in
Christie's presence he did his best, his man confided to her that
the Colonel was "as fractious as a teething baby, and the
domineeringest party he ever nussed."

Some of Mr. Fletcher's attempts were comical, and some pathetic, for
though the sacred circle of her wedding-ring was an effectual
barrier against a look or word of love, Christie knew that the old
affection was not dead, and it showed itself in his desire to win
her respect by all sorts of small sacrifices and efforts at
self-control. He would not use many of the comforts sent him, but
insisted on wearing an army dressing-gown, and slippers that cost
him a secret pang every time his eye was affronted by their
ugliness. Always after an angry scene with his servant, he would be
found going round among the men bestowing little luxuries and kind
words; not condescendingly, but humbly, as if it was an atonement
for his own shortcomings, and a tribute due to the brave fellows who
bore their pains with a fortitude he could not imitate.

"Poor Philip, he tries so hard I must pity, not despise him; for he
was never taught the manly virtues that make David what he is,"
thought Christie, as she went to him one day with an unusually happy
heart.

She found him sitting with a newly opened package before him, and a
gloomy look upon his face.

"See what rubbish one of my men has sent me, thinking I might value
it," he said, pointing to a broken sword-hilt and offering her a
badly written letter.

She read it, and was touched by its affectionate respect and manly
sympathy; for the good fellow had been one of those who saved the
Colonel when he fell, and had kept the broken sword as a trophy of
his bravery, "thinking it might be precious in the eyes of them that
loved him."

"Poor Burny might have spared himself the trouble, for I've no one
to give it to, and in my eyes it's nothing but a bit of old metal,"
said Pletcher, pushing the parcel away with a half-irritated,
half-melancholy look.

"Give it to me as a parting keepsake. I have a fine collection of
relics of the brave men I have known; and this shall have a high
place in my museum when I go home," said Christie, taking up the
"bit of old metal" with more interest than she had ever felt in the
brightest blade.

"Parting keepsake! are you going away?" asked Fletcher, catching at
the words in anxious haste, yet looking pleased at her desire to
keep the relic.

"Yes, I'm ordered to report in Washington, and start to-morrow."

"Then I'll go as escort. The doctor has been wanting me to leave for
a week, and now I 've no desire to stay," he said eagerly.

But Christie shook her head, and began to fold up paper and string
with nervous industry as she answered:

"I am not going directly to Washington: I have a week's furlough
first."

"And what is to become of me?" asked Mr. Fletcher, as fretfully as a
sick child; for he knew where her short holiday would be passed, and
his temper got the upper-hand for a minute.

"You should go home and be comfortably nursed: you'll need care for
some time; and your friends will be glad of a chance to give it I've
no doubt."

"I have no home, as you know; and I don't believe I've got a friend
in the world who cares whether I live or die."

"This looks as if you were mistaken;" and Christie glanced about the
little room, which was full of comforts and luxuries accumulated
during his stay.

His face changed instantly, and he answered with the honest look and
tone never given to any one but her.

"I beg your pardon: I'm an ungrateful brute. But you see I'd just
made up my mind to do something worth the doing, and now it is made
impossible in a way that renders it hard to bear. You are very
patient with me, and I owe my life to your care: I never can thank
you for it; but I will take myself out of your way as soon as I can,
and leave you free to enjoy your happy holiday. Heaven knows you
have earned it!"

He said those last words so heartily that all the bitterness went
out of his voice, and Christie found it easy to reply with a cordial
smile:

"I shall stay and see you comfortably off before I go myself. As for
thanks and reward I have had both; for you have done something worth
the doing, and you give me this."

She took up the broken blade as she spoke, and carried it away,
looking proud of her new trophy.

Fletcher left next day, saying, while he pressed her hand as warmly
as if the vigor of two had gone into his one:

"You will let me come and see you by and by when you too get your
discharge: won't you?"

"So gladly that you shall never again say you have no home. But you
must take care of yourself, or you will get the long discharge, and
we can't spare you yet," she answered warmly.

"No danger of that: the worthless ones are too often left to cumber
the earth; it is the precious ones who are taken," he said, thinking
of her as he looked into her tired face, and remembered all she had
done for him.

Christie shivered involuntarily at those ominous words, but only
said, "Good-by, Philip," as he went feebly away, leaning on his
servant's arm, while all the men touched their caps and wished the
Colonel a pleasant journey.






CHAPTER XVIII.

SUNRISE.





THREE months later the war seemed drawing toward an end, and
Christie was dreaming happy dreams of home and rest with David,
when, as she sat one day writing a letter full of good news to the
wife of a patient, a telegram was handed to her, and tearing it open
she read:

"Captain Sterling dangerously wounded. Tell his wife to come at
once. E. WILKINS."

"No bad news I hope, ma'am?" said the young fellow anxiously, as his
half-written letter fluttered to the ground, and Christie sat
looking at that fateful strip of paper with all the strength and
color stricken out of her face by the fear that fell upon her.

"It might be worse. They told me he was dying once, and when I got
to him he met me at the door. I'll hope for the best now as I did
then, but I never felt like this before," and she hid her face as if
daunted by ominous forebodings too strong to be controlled.

In a moment she was up and doing as calm and steady as if her heart
was not torn by an anxiety too keen for words. By the time the news
had flown through the house, she was ready; and, coming down with no
luggage but a basket of comforts on her arm, she found the hall full
of wan and crippled creatures gathered there to see her off, for no
nurse in the hospital was more beloved than Mrs. Sterling. Many eyes
followed her,--many lips blessed her, many hands were outstretched
for a sympathetic grasp: and, as the ambulance went clattering away,
many hearts echoed the words of one grateful ghost of a man, "The
Lord go with her and stand by her as she's stood by us."

It was not a long journey that lay before her; but to Christie it
seemed interminable, for all the way one unanswerable question
haunted her, "Surely God will not be so cruel as to take David now
when he has done his part so well and the reward is so near."

It was dark when she arrived at the appointed spot; but Elisha
Wilkins was there to receive her, and to her first breathless
question, "How is David?" answered briskly:

"Asleep and doin' well, ma'am. At least I should say so, and I
peeked at him the last thing before I started."

"Where is he?"

"In the little hospital over yonder. Camp warn't no place for him,
and I fetched him here as the nighest, and the best thing I could do
for him."

"How is he wounded?"

"Shot in the shoulder, side, and arm."

"Dangerously you said?"

"No, ma'am, that warn't and ain't my opinion. The sergeant sent that
telegram, and I think he done wrong. The Captain is hit pretty bad;
but it ain't by no means desperate accordin' to my way of thinkin',"
replied the hopeful Wilkins, who seemed mercifully gifted with an
unusual flow of language.

"Thank heaven! Now go on and tell me all about it as fast as you
can," commanded Christie, walking along the rough road so rapidly
that Private Wilkins would have been distressed both in wind and
limb if discipline and hardship had not done much for him.

"Well, you see we've been skirmishin' round here for a week, for the
woods are full of rebs waitin' to surprise some commissary stores
that's expected along. Contrabands is always comin' into camp, and
we do the best we can for the poor devils, and send 'em along where
they'll be safe. Yesterday four women and a boy come: about as
desperate a lot as I ever see; for they'd been two days and a night
in the big swamp, wadin' up to their waists in mud and water, with
nothin' to eat, and babies on their backs all the way. Every woman
had a child, one dead, but she'd fetched it, 'so it might be buried
free,' the poor soul said."

Mr. Wilkins stopped an instant as if for breath, but the thought of
his own "little chaps" filled his heart with pity for that bereaved
mother; and he understood now why decent men were willing to be shot
and starved for "the confounded niggers," as he once called them.

"Go on," said Christie, and he made haste to tell the little story
that was so full of intense interest to his listener.

"I never saw the Captain so worked up as he was by the sight of them
wretched women. He fed and warmed 'em, comforted their poor scared
souls, give what clothes we could find, buried the dead baby with
his own hands, and nussed the other little creeters as if they were
his own. It warn't safe to keep 'em more 'n a day, so when night
come the Captain got 'em off down the river as quiet as he could. Me
and another man helped him, for he wouldn't trust no one but himself
to boss the job. A boat was ready,--blest if I know how he got
it,--and about midnight we led them women down to it. The boy was a
strong lad, and any of 'em could help row, for the current would
take 'em along rapid. This way, ma'am; be we goin' too fast for
you?"

"Not fast enough. Finish quick."

"We got down the bank all right, the Captain standing in the little
path that led to the river to keep guard, while Bates held the boat
stiddy and I put the women in. Things was goin' lovely when the poor
gal who'd lost her baby must needs jump out and run up to thank the
Captain agin for all he'd done for her. Some of them sly rascals was
watchin' the river: they see her, heard Bates call out, 'Come back,
wench; come back!' and they fired. She did come back like a shot,
and we give that boat a push that sent it into the middle of the
stream. Then we run along below the bank, and come out further down
to draw off the rebs. Some followed us and we give it to 'em
handsome. But some warn't deceived, and we heard 'em firin' away at
the Captain; so we got back to him as fast as we could, but it
warn't soon enough.--Take my arm, Mis' Sterlin': it's kinder rough
here."

"And you found him?"--

"Lyin' right acrost the path with two dead men in front of him; for
he'd kep 'em off like a lion till the firin' brought up a lot of our
fellers and the rebs skedaddled. I thought he was dead, for by the
starlight I see he was bleedin' awful,--hold on, my dear, hold on to
me,--he warn't, thank God, and looked up at me and sez, sez he, 'Are
they safe?' 'They be, Captain,' sez I. 'Then it's all right,' sez
he, smilin' in that bright way of his, and then dropped off as quiet
as a lamb. We got him back to camp double quick, and when the
surgeon see them three wounds he shook his head, and I mistrusted
that it warn't no joke. So when the Captain come to I asked him what
I could do or git for him, and he answered in a whisper, 'My wife.'"

For an instant Christie did "hold on" to Mr. Wilkins's arm, for
those two words seemed to take all her strength away. Then the
thought that David was waiting for her strung her nerves and gave
her courage to bear any thing.

"Is he here?" she asked of her guide a moment later, as he stopped
before a large, half-ruined house, through whose windows dim lights
and figures were seen moving to and fro.

"Yes, ma'am; we've made a hospital of this; the Captain's got the
best room in it, and now he's got the best miss that's goin'
anywheres. Won't you have a drop of something jest as a stand-by
before you see him?"

"Nothing; take me to him at once."

"Here we be then. Still sleepin': that looks well."

Mr. Wilkins softly led the way down a long hall, opened a door, and
after one look fell back and saluted as the Captain's wife passed
in.

A surgeon was bending over the low bed, and when a hoarse voice at
his elbow asked:

"How is he?" The doctor answered without looking up:

"Done for: this shot through the lungs will finish him before
morning I'm afraid."

"Then leave him to me: I am his wife," said the voice, clear and
sharp now with the anguish those hard words had brought.

"Good God, why did no one tell me! My dear lady, I thought you were
a nurse!" cried the poor surgeon rent with remorse for what now
seemed the brutal frankness of his answer, as he saw the white face
of the woman at his side, with a look in her eyes harder to see than
the bitterest tears that ever fell.

"I am a nurse. If you can do nothing, please go and leave him to me
the little while he has to live."

Without a word the surgeon vanished, and Christie was alone with
David.

The instant she saw him she felt that there was no hope, for she had
seen too many faces wear the look his wore to be deceived even by
her love. Lying with closed eyes already sunken by keen suffering,
hair damp with the cold dew on his forehead, a scarlet spot on
either cheek, gray lines about the mouth, and pale lips parted by
the painful breaths that came in heavy gasps or fluttered fitfully.
This was what Christie saw, and after that long look she knew the
truth, and sunk down beside the bed, crying with an exceeding bitter
cry:

"O David, O my husband, must I give you up so soon?"

His eyes opened then, and he turned his cheek to hers, whispering
with a look that tried to be a smile, but ended in a sigh of
satisfaction:

"I knew you'd come;" then, as a tearless sob shook her from head to
foot, he added steadily, though each breath cost a pang, "'Yes,
dear, I must go first, but it won't be hard with you to help me do
it bravely."

In that supremely bitter moment there returned to Christie's memory
certain words of the marriage service that had seemed so beautiful
when she took part in it: "For better for worse, till death us do
part." She had known the better, so short, so sweet! This was the
worse, and till death came she must keep faithfully the promise made
with such a happy heart. The thought brought with it unexpected
strength, and gave her courage to crush down her grief, seal up her
tears, and show a brave and tender face as she took that feeble hand
in hers ready to help her husband die.

He saw and thanked her for the effort, felt the sustaining power of
a true wife's heart, and seemed to have no other care, since she was
by him steadfast to the end. He lay looking at her with such serene
and happy eyes that she would not let a tear, a murmur, mar his
peace; and for a little while she felt as if she had gone out of
this turbulent world into a heavenly one, where love reigned
supreme.

But such hours are as brief as beautiful, and at midnight mortal
suffering proved that immortal joy had not yet begun.

Christie had sat by many death-beds, but never one like this; for,
through all the bitter pangs that tried his flesh, David's soul
remained patient and strong, upheld by the faith that conquers pain
and makes even Death a friend. In the quiet time that went before,
he had told his last wishes, given his last messages of love, and
now had but one desire,--to go soon that Christie might be spared
the trial of seeing suffering she could neither lighten nor share.

"Go and rest, dear; go and rest," he whispered more than once. "Let
Wilkins come: this is too much for you. I thought it would be
easier, but I am so strong life fights for me inch by inch."

But Christie would not go, and for her sake David made haste to die.

Hour after hour the tide ebbed fast, hour after hour the man's
patient soul sat waiting for release, and hour after hour the
woman's passionate heart clung to the love that seemed drifting away
leaving her alone upon the shore. Once or twice she could not bear
it, and cried out in her despair:

"No, it is not just that you should suffer this for a creature whose
whole life is not worth a day of your brave, useful, precious one!
Why did you pay such a price for that girl's liberty?" she said, as
the thought of her own wrecked future fell upon her dark and heavy.

"Because I owed it;--she suffered more than this seeing her baby
die;--I thought of you in her place, and I could not help doing it."

The broken answer, the reproachful look, wrung Christie's heart, and
she was silent: for, in all the knightly tales she loved so well,
what Sir Galahad had rescued a more wretched, wronged, and helpless
woman than the poor soul whose dead baby David buried tenderly
before he bought the mother's freedom with his life?

Only one regret escaped him as the end drew very near, and mortal
weakness brought relief from mortal pain. The first red streaks of
dawn shone in the east, and his dim eyes brightened at the sight;

"Such a beautiful world!" he whispered with the ghost of a smile,
"and so much good work to do in it, I wish I could stay and help a
little longer," he added, while the shadow deepened on his face. But
soon he said, trying to press Christie's hand, still holding his:
"You will do my part, and do it better than I could. Don't mourn,
dear heart, but work; and by and by you will be comforted."

"DON'T MOURN, DEAR HEART, BUT WORK."

"I will try; but I think I shall soon follow you, and need no
comfort here," answered Christie, already finding consolation in the
thought. "What is it, David?" she asked a little later, as she saw
his eyes turn wistfully toward the window where the rosy glow was
slowly creeping up the sky.

"I want to see the sun rise;--that used to be our happy time;--turn
my face toward the light, Christie, and we'll wait for it together."

An hour later when the first pale ray crept in at the low window,
two faces lay upon the pillow; one full of the despairing grief for
which there seems no balm; the other with lips and eyes of solemn
peace, and that mysterious expression, lovelier than any smile,
which death leaves as a tender token that all is well with the
new-born soul.

To Christie that was the darkest hour of the dawn, but for David
sunrise had already come.






CHAPTER XIX.

LITTLE HEART'S-EASE.





WHEN it was all over, the long journey home, the quiet funeral, the
first sad excitement, then came the bitter moment when life says to
the bereaved: "Take up your burden and go on alone." Christie's had
been the still, tearless grief hardest to bear, most impossible to
comfort; and, while Mrs. Sterling bore her loss with the sweet
patience of a pious heart, and Letty mourned her brother with the
tender sorrow that finds relief in natural ways, the widow sat among
them, as tranquil, colorless, and mute, as if her soul had followed
David, leaving the shadow of her former self behind.

"He will not come to me, but I shall go to him," seemed to be the
thought that sustained her, and those who loved her said
despairingly to one another: "Her heart is broken: she will not
linger long."

But one woman wise in her own motherliness always answered
hopefully: "Don't you be troubled; Nater knows what's good for us,
and works in her own way. Hearts like this don't break, and sorrer
only makes 'em stronger. You mark my words: the blessed baby that's
a comin' in the summer will work a merrycle, and you'll see this
poor dear a happy woman yet."

Few believed in the prophecy; but Mrs. Wilkins stoutly repeated it
and watched over Christie like a mother; often trudging up the lane
in spite of wind or weather to bring some dainty mess, some
remarkable puzzle in red or yellow calico to be used as a pattern
for the little garments the three women sewed with such tender
interest, consecrated with such tender tears; or news of the war
fresh from Lisha who "was goin' to see it through ef he come home
without a leg to stand on." A cheery, hopeful, wholesome influence
she brought with her, and all the house seemed to brighten as she
sat there freeing her mind upon every subject that came up, from the
delicate little shirts Mrs. Sterling knit in spite of failing
eyesight, to the fall of Richmond, which, the prophetic spirit being
strong within her, Mrs. Wilkins foretold with sibylline precision.

She alone could win a faint smile from Christie with some odd
saying, some shrewd opinion, and she alone brought tears to the
melancholy eyes that sorely needed such healing dew; for she carried
little Adelaide, and without a word put her into Christie's arms,
there to cling and smile and babble till she had soothed the bitter
pain and hunger of a suffering heart.

She and Mr. Power held Christie up through that hard time,
ministering to soul and body with their hope and faith till life
grew possible again, and from the dust of a great affliction rose
the sustaining power she had sought so long.

As spring came on, and victory after victory proclaimed that the war
was drawing to an end, Christie's sad resignation was broken, by
gusts of grief so stormy, so inconsolable, that those about her
trembled for her life. It was so hard to see the regiments come home
proudly bearing the torn battle-flags, weary, wounded, but
victorious, to be rapturously welcomed, thanked, and honored by the
grateful country they had served so well; to see all this and think
of David in his grave unknown, unrewarded, and forgotten by all but
a faithful few.

"I used to dream of a time like this, to hope and plan for it, and
cheer myself with the assurance that, after all our hard work, our
long separation, and the dangers we had faced, David would get some
honor, receive some reward, at least be kept for me to love and
serve and live with for a little while. But these men who have
merely saved a banner, led a charge, or lost an arm, get all the
glory, while he gave his life so nobly; yet few know it, no one
thanked him, and I am left desolate when so many useless ones might
have been taken in his place. Oh, it is not just! I cannot forgive
God for robbing him of all his honors, and me of all my happiness."

So lamented Christie with the rebellious protest of a strong nature
learning submission through the stern discipline of grief. In vain
Mr. Power told her that David had received a better reward than any
human hand could give him, in the gratitude of many women, the
respect of many men. That to do bravely the daily duties of an
upright life was more heroic in God's sight, than to achieve in an
enthusiastic moment a single deed that won the world's applause; and
that the seeming incompleteness of his life was beautifully rounded
by the act that caused his death, although no eulogy recorded it, no
song embalmed it, and few knew it but those he saved, those he
loved, and the Great Commander who promoted him to the higher rank
he had won.

Christie could not be content with this invisible, intangible
recompense for her hero: she wanted to see, to know beyond a doubt,
that justice had been done; and beat herself against the barrier
that baffles bereaved humanity till impatient despair was wearied
out, and passionate heart gave up the struggle.

Then, when no help seemed possible, she found it where she least
expected it, in herself. Searching for religion, she had found love:
now seeking to follow love she found religion. The desire for it had
never left her, and, while serving others, she was earning this
reward; for when her life seemed to lie in ashes, from their midst,
this slender spire of flame, purifying while it burned, rose
trembling toward heaven; showing her how great sacrifices turn to
greater compensations; giving her light, warmth, and consolation,
and teaching her the lesson all must learn.

God was very patient with her, sending much help, and letting her
climb up to Him by all the tender ways in which aspiring souls can
lead unhappy hearts.

David's room had been her refuge when those dark hours came, and
sitting there one day trying to understand the great mystery that
parted her from David, she seemed to receive an answer to her many
prayers for some sign that death had not estranged them. The house
was very still, the window open, and a soft south wind was wandering
through the room with hints of May-flowers on its wings. Suddenly a
breath of music startled her, so airy, sweet, and short-lived that
no human voice or hand could have produced it. Again and again it
came, a fitful and melodious sigh, that to one made superstitious by
much sorrow, seemed like a spirit's voice delivering some message
from another world.

Christie looked and listened with hushed breath and expectant heart,
believing that some special answer was to be given her. But in a
moment she saw it was no supernatural sound, only the south wind
whispering in David's flute that hung beside the window.
Disappointment came first, then warm over her sore heart flowed the
tender recollection that she used to call the old flute "David's
voice," for into it he poured the joy and sorrow, unrest and pain,
he told no living soul. How often it had been her lullaby, before
she learned to read its language; how gaily it had piped for others;
how plaintively it had sung for him, alone and in the night; and now
how full of pathetic music was that hymn of consolation fitfully
whispered by the wind's soft breath.

Ah, yes! this was a better answer than any supernatural voice could
have given her; a more helpful sign than any phantom face or hand; a
surer confirmation of her hope than subtle argument or sacred
promise: for it brought back the memory of the living, loving man so
vividly, so tenderly, that Christie felt as if the barrier was down,
and welcomed a new sense of David's nearness with the softest tears
that had flowed since she closed the serene eyes whose last look had
been for her.

After that hour she spent the long spring days lying on the old
couch in his room, reading his books, thinking of his love and life,
and listening to "David's voice." She always heard it now, whether
the wind touched the flute with airy fingers or it hung mute; and it
sung to her songs of patience, hope, and cheer, till a mysterious
peace carne to her, and she discovered in herself the strength she
had asked, yet never thought to find. Under the snow, herbs of grace
had been growing silently; and, when the heavy rains had melted all
the frost away, they sprung up to blossom beautifully in the sun
that shines for every spire of grass, and makes it perfect in its
time and place.

Mrs. Wilkins was right; for one June morning, when she laid "that
blessed baby" in its mother's arms, Christie's first words were:

"Don't let me die: I must live for baby now," and gathered David's
little daughter to her breast, as if the soft touch of the fumbling
hands had healed every wound and brightened all the world.

"I told you so; God bless 'em both!" and Mrs. Wilkins retired
precipitately to the hall, where she sat down upon the stairs and
cried most comfortable tears; for her maternal heart was full of a
thanksgiving too deep for words.

A sweet, secluded time to Christie, as she brooded over her little
treasure and forgot there was a world outside. A fond and jealous
mother, but a very happy one, for after the bitterest came the
tenderest experience of her life. She felt its sacredness, its
beauty, and its high responsibilities; accepted them prayerfully,
and found unspeakable delight in fitting herself to bear them
worthily, always remembering that she had a double duty to perform
toward the fatherless little creature given to her care.

It is hardly necessary to mention the changes one small individual
made in that feminine household. The purring and clucking that went
on; the panics over a pin-prick; the consultations over a pellet of
chamomilla; the raptures at the dawn of a first smile; the solemn
prophecies of future beauty, wit, and wisdom in the bud of a woman;
the general adoration of the entire family at the wicker shrine
wherein lay the idol, a mass of flannel and cambric with a bald head
at one end, and a pair of microscopic blue socks at the other.
Mysterious little porringers sat unreproved upon the parlor fire,
small garments aired at every window, lights burned at unholy hours,
and three agitated nightcaps congregated at the faintest chirp of
the restless bird in the maternal nest.

Of course Grandma grew young again, and produced nursery
reminiscences on every occasion; Aunt Letty trotted day and night to
gratify the imaginary wants of the idol, and Christie was so
entirely absorbed that the whole South might have been swallowed up
by an earthquake without causing her as much consternation as the
appearance of a slight rash upon the baby.

No flower in David's garden throve like his little June rose, for no
wind was allowed to visit her too roughly; and when rain fell
without, she took her daily airing in the green-house, where from
her mother's arms she soon regarded the gay sight with such
sprightly satisfaction that she seemed a little flower herself
dancing on its stem.

She was named Ruth for grandma, but Christie always called her
"Little Heart's-ease," or "Pansy," and those who smiled at first at
the mother's fancy, came in time to see that there was an unusual
fitness in the name. All the bitterness seemed taken out of
Christie's sorrow by the soft magic of the child: there was so much
to live for now she spoke no more of dying; and, holding that little
hand in hers, it grew easier to go on along the way that led to
David.

A prouder mother never lived; and, as baby waxed in beauty and in
strength, Christie longed for all the world to see her. A sweet,
peculiar, little face she had, sunny and fair; but, under the broad
forehead where the bright hair fell as David's used to do, there
shone a pair of dark and solemn eyes, so large, so deep, and often
so unchildlike, that her mother wondered where she got them. Even
when she smiled the shadow lingered in these eyes, and when she wept
they filled and overflowed with great, quiet tears like flowers too
full of dew. Christie often said remorsefully:

"My little Pansy! I put my own sorrow into your baby soul, and now
it looks back at me with this strange wistfulness, and these great
drops are the unsubmissive tears I locked up in my heart because I
would not be grateful for the good gift God gave me, even while he
took that other one away. O Baby, forgive your mother; and don't let
her find that she has given you clouds instead of sunshine."

This fear helped Christie to keep her own face cheerful, her own
heart tranquil, her own life as sunny, healthful, and hopeful as she
wished her child's to be. For this reason she took garden and
green-house into her own hands when Bennet gave them up, and, with a
stout lad to help her, did well this part of the work that David
bequeathed to her. It was a pretty sight to see the mother with her
year-old daughter out among the fresh, green things: the little
golden head bobbing here and there like a stray sunbeam; the baby
voice telling sweet, unintelligible stories to bird and bee and
butterfly; or the small creature fast asleep in a basket under a
rose-bush, swinging in a hammock from a tree, or in Bran's keeping,
rosy, vigorous, and sweet with sun and air, and the wholesome
influence of a wise and tender love.

While Christie worked she planned her daughter's future, as mothers
will, and had but one care concerning it. She did not fear poverty,
but the thought of being straitened for the means of educating
little Ruth afflicted her. She meant to teach her to labor heartily
and see no degradation in it, but she could not bear to feel that
her child should be denied the harmless pleasures that make youth
sweet, the opportunities that educate, the society that ripens
character and gives a rank which money cannot buy. A little sum to
put away for Baby, safe from all risk, ready to draw from as each
need came, and sacredly devoted to this end, was now Christie's sole
ambition.

With this purpose at her heart, she watched her fruit and nursed
her flowers; found no task too hard, no sun too hot, no weed too
unconquerable; and soon the garden David planted when his life
seemed barren, yielded lovely harvests to swell his little
daughter's portion.

One day Christie received a letter from Uncle Enos expressing a wish
to see her if she cared to come so far and "stop a spell." It both
surprised and pleased her, and she resolved to go, glad that the old
man remembered her, and proud to show him the great success of her
life, as she considered Baby.

So she went, was hospitably received by the ancient cousin five
times removed who kept house, and greeted with as much cordiality as
Uncle Enos ever showed to any one. He looked askance at Baby, as if
he had not bargained for the honor of her presence; but he said
nothing, and Christie wisely refrained from mentioning that Ruth was
the most remarkable child ever born.

She soon felt at home, and went about the old house visiting
familiar nooks with the bitter, sweet satisfaction of such returns.
It was sad to miss Aunt Betsey in the big kitchen, strange to see
Uncle Enos sit all day in his arm-chair too helpless now to plod
about the farm and carry terror to the souls of those who served
him. He was still a crabbed, gruff, old man; but the narrow, hard,
old heart was a little softer than it used to be; and he sometimes
betrayed the longing for his kindred that the aged often feel when
infirmity makes them desire tenderer props than any they can hire.

Christie saw this wish, and tried to gratify it with a dutiful
affection which could not fail to win its way. Baby unconsciously
lent a hand, for Uncle Enos could not long withstand the sweet
enticements of this little kinswoman. He did not own the conquest in
words, but was seen to cuddle his small captivator in private;
allowed all sorts of liberties with his spectacles, his pockets, and
bald pate; and never seemed more comfortable than when she
confiscated his newspaper, and sitting on his knee read it to him in
a pretty language of her own.

"She's a good little gal; looks consid'able like you; but you warn't
never such a quiet puss as she is," he said one day, as the child
was toddling about the room with an old doll of her mother's lately
disinterred from its tomb in the garret.

"She is like her father in that. But I get quieter as I grow old,
uncle," answered Christie, who sat sewing near him.

"You be growing old, that's a fact; but somehow it's kind of
becomin'. I never thought you'd be so much of a lady, and look so
well after all you've ben through," added Uncle Enos, vainly trying
to discover what made Christie's manners so agreeable in spite of
her plain dress, and her face so pleasant in spite of the gray hair
at her temples and the lines about her mouth.

It grew still pleasanter to see as she smiled and looked up at him
with the soft yet bright expression that always made him think of
her mother.

"I'm glad you don't consider me an entire failure, uncle. You know
you predicted it. But though I have gone through a good deal, I
don't regret my attempt, and when I look at Pansy I feel as if I'd
made a grand success."

"You haven't made much money, I guess. If you don't mind tellin',
what have you got to live on?" asked the old man, unwilling to
acknowledge any life a success, if dollars and cents were left out
of it.

"Only David's pension and what I can make by my garden."

"The old lady has to have some on't, don't she?" "She has a little
money of her own; but I see that she and Letty have two-thirds of
all I make."

"That ain't a fair bargain if you do all the work." "Ah, but we
don't make bargains, sir: we work for one another and share every
thing together."

"So like women!" grumbled Uncle Enos, longing to see that "the
property was fixed up square."

"SHE'S A GOOD LITTLE GAL! LOOKS CONSID'ABLE LIKE YOU."

"How are you goin' to eddicate the little gal? I s'pose you think as
much of culter and so on as ever you did," he presently added with a
gruff laugh.

"More," answered Christie, smiling too, as she remembered the old
quarrels. "I shall earn the money, sir. If the garden fails I can
teach, nurse, sew, write, cook even, for I've half a dozen useful
accomplishments at my fingers' ends, thanks to the education you and
dear Aunt Betsey gave me, and I may have to use them all for Pansy's
sake."

Pleased by the compliment, yet a little conscience-stricken at the
small share he deserved of it, Uncle Enos sat rubbing up his glasses
a minute, before he led to the subject he had in his mind.

"Ef you fall sick or die, what then?"

"I've thought of that," and Christie caught up the child as if her
love could keep even death at bay. But Pansy soon struggled down
again, for the dirty-faced doll was taking a walk and could not be
detained. "If I am taken from her, then my little girl must do as
her mother did. God has orphans in His special care, and He won't
forget her I am sure."

Uncle Enos had a coughing spell just then; and, when he got over it,
he said with an effort, for even to talk of giving away his
substance cost him a pang:

"I'm gettin' into years now, and it's about time I fixed up matters
in case I'm took suddin'. I always meant to give you a little
suthing, but as you didn't ask for't, I took good care on 't, and it
ain't none the worse for waitin' a spell. I jest speak on't, so you
needn't be anxious about the little gal. It ain't much, but it will
make things easy I reckon."

"You are very kind, uncle; and I am more grateful than I can tell. I
don't want a penny for myself, but I should love to know that my
daughter was to have an easier life than mine."

"I s'pose you thought of that when you come so quick?" said the old
man, with a suspicious look, that made Christie's eyes kindle as
they used to years ago, but she answered honestly:

"I did think of it and hope it, yet I should have come quicker if
you had been in the poor-house."

Neither spoke for a minute; for, in spite of generosity and
gratitude, the two natures struck fire when they met as inevitably
as flint and steel.

"What's your opinion of missionaries," asked Uncle Enos, after a
spell of meditation.

"If I had any money to leave them, I should bequeath it to those who
help the heathen here at home, and should let the innocent Feejee
Islanders worship their idols a little longer in benighted peace,"
answered Christie, in her usual decided way.

"That's my idee exactly; but it's uncommon hard to settle which of
them that stays at home you'll trust your money to. You see Betsey
was always pesterin' me to give to charity things; but I told her it
was better to save up and give it in a handsome lump that looked
well, and was a credit to you. When she was dyin' she reminded me
on't, and I promised I'd do suthing before I follered. I've been
turnin' on't over in my mind for a number of months, and I don't
seem to find any thing that's jest right. You've ben round among the
charity folks lately accordin' to your tell, now what would you do
if you had a tidy little sum to dispose on?"

"Help the Freed people."

The answer came so quick that it nearly took the old gentleman's
breath away, and he looked at his niece with his mouth open after an
involuntary, "Sho!" had escaped him.

"David helped give them their liberty, and I would so gladly help
them to enjoy it!" cried Christie, all the old enthusiasm blazing
up, but with a clearer, steadier flame than in the days when she
dreamed splendid dreams by the kitchen fire.

"Well, no, that wouldn't meet my views. What else is there?" asked
the old man quite unwarmed by her benevolent ardor.

"Wounded soldiers, destitute children, ill-paid women, young people
struggling for independence, homes, hospitals, schools, churches,
and God's charity all over the world."

"That's the pesky part on 't: there's such a lot to choose from; I
don't know much about any of 'em," began Uncle Enos, looking like a
perplexed raven with a treasure which it cannot decide where to
hide.

"Whose fault is that, sir?"

The question hit the old man full in the conscience, and he winced,
remembering how many of Betsey's charitable impulses he had nipped
in the bud, and now all the accumulated alms she would have been so
glad to scatter weighed upon him heavily. He rubbed his bald head
with a yellow bandana, and moved uneasily in his chair, as if he
wanted to get up and finish the neglected job that made his
helplessness so burdensome.

"I'll ponder on 't a spell, and make up my mind," was all he said,
and never renewed the subject again.

But he had very little time to ponder, and he never did make up his
mind; for a few months after Christie's long visit ended, Uncle Enos
"was took suddin'," and left all he had to her.

Not an immense fortune, but far larger than she expected, and great
was her anxiety to use wisely this unlooked-for benefaction. She was
very grateful, but she kept nothing for herself, feeling that
David's pension was enough, and preferring the small sum he earned
so dearly to the thousands the old man had hoarded up for years. A
good portion was put by for Ruth, something for "mother and Letty"
that want might never touch them, and the rest she kept for David's
work, believing that, so spent, the money would be blest.






CHAPTER XX.

AT FORTY.





"NEARLY twenty years since I set out to seek my fortune. It has been
a long search, but I think I have found it at last. I only asked to
be a useful, happy woman, and my wish is granted: for, I believe I
am useful; I know I am happy."

Christie looked so as she sat alone in the flowery parlor one
September afternoon, thinking over her life with a grateful,
cheerful spirit. Forty to-day, and pausing at that half-way house
between youth and age, she looked back into the past without bitter
regret or unsubmissive grief, and forward into the future with
courageous patience; for three good angels attended her, and with
faith, hope, and charity to brighten life, no woman need lament lost
youth or fear approaching age. Christie did not, and though her eyes
filled with quiet tears as they were raised to the faded cap and
sheathed sword hanging on the wall, none fell; and in a moment
tender sorrow changed to still tenderer joy as her glance wandered
to rosy little Ruth playing hospital with her dollies in the porch.
Then they shone with genuine satisfaction as they went from the
letters and papers on her table to the garden, where several young
women were at work with a healthful color in the cheeks that had
been very pale and thin in the spring.

"I think David is satisfied with me; for I have given all my heart
and strength to his work, and it prospers well," she said to
herself, and then her face grew thoughtful, as she recalled a late
event which seemed to have opened a new field of labor for her if
she chose to enter it.

A few evenings before she had gone to one of the many meetings of
working-women, which had made some stir of late. Not a first visit,
for she was much interested in the subject and full of sympathy for
this class of workers.

There were speeches of course, and of the most unparliamentary sort,
for the meeting was composed almost entirely of women, each eager to
tell her special grievance or theory. Any one who chose got up and
spoke; and whether wisely or foolishly each proved how great was the
ferment now going on, and how difficult it was for the two classes
to meet and help one another in spite of the utmost need on one side
and the sincerest good-will on the other. The workers poured out
their wrongs and hardships passionately or plaintively, demanding or
imploring justice, sympathy, and help; displaying the ignorance,
incapacity, and prejudice, which make their need all the more
pitiful, their relief all the more imperative.

The ladies did their part with kindliness, patience, and often
unconscious condescension, showing in their turn how little they
knew of the real trials of the women whom they longed to serve, how
very narrow a sphere of usefulness they were fitted for in spite of
culture and intelligence, and how rich they were in generous
theories, how poor in practical methods of relief.

One accomplished creature with learning radiating from every pore,
delivered a charming little essay on the strong-minded women of
antiquity; then, taking labor into the region of art, painted
delightful pictures of the time when all would work harmoniously
together in an Ideal Republic, where each did the task she liked,
and was paid for it in liberty, equality, and fraternity.

Unfortunately she talked over the heads of her audience, and it was
like telling fairy tales to hungry children to describe Aspasia
discussing Greek politics with Pericles and Plato reposing upon
ivory couches, or Hypatia modestly delivering philosophical lectures
to young men behind a Tyrian purple curtain; and the Ideal Republic
met with little favor from anxious seamstresses, type-setters, and
shop-girls, who said ungratefully among themselves, "That's all very
pretty, but I don't see how it's going to better wages among us now"

Another eloquent sister gave them a political oration which fired
the revolutionary blood in their veins, and made them eager to rush
to the State-house en masse, and demand the ballot before one-half
of them were quite clear what it meant, and the other half were as
unfit for it as any ignorant Patrick bribed with a dollar and a sup
of whiskey.

A third well-wisher quenched their ardor like a wet blanket, by
reading reports of sundry labor reforms in foreign parts; most
interesting, but made entirely futile by differences of climate,
needs, and customs. She closed with a cheerful budget of statistics,
giving the exact number of needle-women who had starved, gone mad,
or committed suicide during the past year; the enormous profits
wrung by capitalists from the blood and muscles of their employes;
and the alarming increase in the cost of living, which was about to
plunge the nation into debt and famine, if not destruction
generally.

When she sat down despair was visible on many countenances, and
immediate starvation seemed to be waiting at the door to clutch them
as they went out; for the impressible creatures believed every word
and saw no salvation anywhere.

Christie had listened intently to all this; had admired, regretted,
or condemned as each spoke; and felt a steadily increasing sympathy
for all, and a strong desire to bring the helpers and the helped
into truer relations with each other.

The dear ladies were so earnest, so hopeful, and so unpractically
benevolent, that it grieved her to see so much breath wasted, so
much good-will astray; while the expectant, despondent, or excited
faces of the work-women touched her heart; for well she knew how
much they needed help, how eager they were for light, how ready to
be led if some one would only show a possible way.

As the statistical extinguisher retired, beaming with satisfaction
at having added her mite to the good cause, a sudden and
uncontrollable impulse moved Christie to rise in her place and ask
leave to speak. It was readily granted, and a little stir of
interest greeted her; for she was known to many as Mr. Power's
friend, David Sterling's wife, or an army nurse who had done well.
Whispers circulated quickly, and faces brightened as they turned
toward her; for she had a helpful look, and her first words pleased
them. When the president invited her to the platform she paused on
the lowest step, saying with an expressive look and gesture:

"I am better here, thank you; for I have been and mean to be a
working-woman all my life."

"Hear! hear!" cried a stout matron in a gay bonnet, and the rest
indorsed the sentiment with a hearty round. Then they were very
still, and then in a clear, steady voice, with the sympathetic
undertone to it that is so magical in its effect, Christie made her
first speech in public since she left the stage.

That early training stood her in good stead now, giving her
self-possession, power of voice, and ease of gesture; while the
purpose at her heart lent her the sort of simple eloquence that
touches, persuades, and convinces better than logic, flattery, or
oratory.

What she said she hardly knew: words came faster than she could
utter them, thoughts pressed upon her, and all the lessons of her
life rose vividly before her to give weight to her arguments, value
to her counsel, and the force of truth to every sentence she
uttered. She had known so many of the same trials, troubles, and
temptations that she could speak understandingly of them; and,
better still, she had conquered or outlived so many of them, that
she could not only pity but help others to do as she had done.
Having found in labor her best teacher, comforter, and friend, she
could tell those who listened that, no matter how hard or humble the
task at the beginning, if faithfully and bravely performed, it would
surely prove a stepping-stone to something better, and with each
honest effort they were fitting themselves for the nobler labor, and
larger liberty God meant them to enjoy.

The women felt that this speaker was one of them; for the same lines
were on her face that they saw on their own, her hands were no fine
lady's hands, her dress plainer than some of theirs, her speech
simple enough for all to understand; cheerful, comforting, and full
of practical suggestion, illustrations out of their own experience,
and a spirit of companionship that uplifted their despondent hearts.

Yet more impressive than any thing she said was the subtle magnetism
of character, for that has a universal language which all can
understand. They saw and felt that a genuine woman stood down there
among them like a sister, ready with head, heart, and hand to help
them help themselves; not offering pity as an alms, but justice as a
right. Hardship and sorrow, long effort and late-won reward had been
hers they knew; wifehood, motherhood, and widowhood brought her very
near to them; and behind her was the background of an earnest life,
against which this figure with health on the cheeks, hope in the
eyes, courage on the lips, and the ardor of a wide benevolence
warming the whole countenance stood out full of unconscious dignity
and beauty; an example to comfort, touch, and inspire them.

It was not a long speech, and in it there was no learning, no
statistics, and no politics; yet it was the speech of the evening,
and when it was over no one else seemed to have any thing to say. As
the meeting broke up Christie's hand was shaken by many roughened by
the needle, stained with printer's ink, or hard with humbler toil;
many faces smiled gratefully at her, and many voices thanked her
heartily. But sweeter than any applause were the words of one woman
who grasped her hand, and whispered with wet eyes:

"I knew your blessed husband; he was very good to me, and I've been
thanking the Lord he had such a wife for his reward!"

Christie was thinking of all this as she sat alone that day, and
asking herself if she should go on; for the ladies had been as
grateful as the women; had begged her to come and speak again,
saying they needed just such a mediator to bridge across the space
that now divided them from those they wished to serve. She certainly
seemed fitted to act as interpreter between the two classes; for,
from the gentleman her father she had inherited the fine instincts,
gracious manners, and unblemished name of an old and honorable race;
from the farmer's daughter, her mother, came the equally valuable
dower of practical virtues, a sturdy love of independence, and great
respect for the skill and courage that can win it.

Such women were much needed and are not always easy to find; for
even in democratic America the hand that earns its daily bread must
wear some talent, name, or honor as an ornament, before it is very
cordially shaken by those that wear white gloves.

"Perhaps this is the task my life has been fitting me for," she
said. "A great and noble one which I should be proud to accept and
help accomplish if I can. Others have finished the emancipation work
and done it splendidly, even at the cost of all this blood and
sorrow. I came too late to do any thing but give my husband and
behold the glorious end. This new task seems to offer me the chance
of being among the pioneers, to do the hard work, share the
persecution, and help lay the foundation of a new emancipation whose
happy success I may never see. Yet I had rather be remembered as
those brave beginners are, though many of them missed the triumph,
than as the late comers will be, who only beat the drums and wave
the banners when the victory is won."

Just then the gate creaked on its hinges, a step sounded in the
porch, and little Ruth ran in to say in an audible whisper:

"It's a lady, mamma, a very pretty lady: can you see her?"

"Yes, dear, ask her in."

There was a rustle of sweeping silks through the narrow hall, a
vision of a very lovely woman in the door-way, and two daintily
gloved hands were extended as an eager voice asked: "Dearest
Christie, don't you remember Bella Carrol?"

Christie did remember, and had her in her arms directly, utterly
regardless of the imminent destruction of a marvellous hat, or the
bad effect of tears on violet ribbons. Presently they were sitting
close together, talking with April faces, and telling their stories
as women must when they meet after the lapse of years. A few letters
had passed between them, but Bella had been abroad, and Christie too
busy living her life to have much time to write about it.

"Your mother, Bella? how is she, and where?"

"Still with Augustine, and he you know is melancholy mad: very
quiet, very patient, and very kind to every one but himself. His
penances for the sins of his race would soon kill him if mother was
not there to watch over him. And her penance is never to leave him."

"Dear child, don't tell me any more; it is too sad. Talk of yourself
and Harry. Now you smile, so I'm sure all is well with him."

"Yes, thank heaven! Christie, I do believe fate means to spare us as
dear old Dr. Shirley said. I never can be gay again, but I keep as
cheerful and busy as I can, for Harry's sake, and he does the same
for mine. We shall always be together, and all in all to one
another, for we can never marry and have homes apart you know. We
have wandered over the face of the earth for several years, and now
we mean to settle down and be as happy and as useful as we can."

"That's brave! I am so glad to hear it, and so truly thankful it is
possible. But tell me, Bella, what Harry means to do? You spoke in
one of your first letters of his being hard at work studying
medicine. Is that to be his profession?"

"Yes; I don't know what made him choose it, unless it was the hope
that he might spare other families from a curse like ours, or
lighten it if it came. After Helen's death he was a changed
creature; no longer a wild boy, but a man. I told him what you said
to me, and it gave him hope. Dr. Shirley confirmed it as far as he
dared; and Hal resolved to make the most of his one chance by
interesting himself in some absorbing study, and leaving no room for
fear, no time for dangerous recollections. I was so glad, and mother
so comforted, for we both feared that sad trouble would destroy him.
He studied hard, got on splendidly, and then went abroad to finish
off. I went with him; for poor August was past hope, and mamma would
not let me help her. The doctor said it was best for me to be away,
and excellent for Hal to have me with him, to cheer him up, and keep
him steady with a little responsibility. We have been happy together
in spite of our trouble, he in his profession, and I in him; now he
is ready, so we have come home, and now the hardest part begins for
me."

"How, Bella?"

"He has his work and loves it: I have nothing after my duty to him
is done. I find I've lost my taste for the old pleasures and
pursuits, and though I have tried more sober, solid ones, there
still remains much time to hang heavy on my hands, and such an empty
place in my heart, that even Harry's love cannot fill it. I'm afraid
I shall get melancholy,--that is the beginning of the end for us,
you know."

As Bella spoke the light died out of her eyes, and they grew
despairing with the gloom of a tragic memory. Christie drew the
beautiful, pathetic face clown upon her bosom, longing to comfort,
yet feeling very powerless to lighten Bella's burden.

But Christie's little daughter did it for her. Ruth had been
standing near regarding the "pretty lady," with as much wonder and
admiration as if she thought her a fairy princess, who might vanish
before she got a good look at her. Divining with a child's quick
instinct that the princess was in trouble, Ruth flew into the porch,
caught up her latest and dearest treasure, and presented it as a
sure consolation, with such sweet good-will, that Bella could not
refuse, although it was only a fuzzy caterpillar in a little box.

"I give it to you because it is my nicest one and just ready to spin
up. Do you like pussy-pillars, and know how they do it?" asked Ruth,
emboldened by the kiss she got in return for her offering.

"Tell me all about it, darling," and Bella could not help smiling,
as the child fixed her great eyes upon her, and told her little
story with such earnestness, that she was breathless by the time she
ended.

"At first they are only grubs you know, and stay down in the earth;
then they are like this, nice and downy and humpy, when they walk;
and when it's time they spin up and go to sleep. It's all dark in
their little beds, and they don't know what may happen to 'em; but
they are not afraid 'cause God takes care of 'em. So they wait and
don't fret, and when it's right for 'em they come out splendid
butterflies, all beautiful and shining like your gown. They are
happy then, and fly away to eat honey, and live in the air, and
never be creeping worms any more."

"That's a pretty lesson for rne," said Bella softly, "I accept and
thank you for it, little teacher; I'll try to be a patient
'pussy-pillar' though it is dark, and I don't know what may happen
to me; and I'll wait hopefully till it's time to float away a happy
butterfly."

"Go and get the friend some flowers, the gayest and sweetest you can
find, Pansy," said Christie, and, as the child ran off, she added to
her friend:

"Now we must think of something pleasant for you to do. It may take
a little time, but I know we shall find your niche if we give our
minds to it."

"That's one reason why I came. I heard some friends of mine talking
about you yesterday, and they seemed to think you were equal to any
thing in the way of good works. Charity is the usual refuge for
people like me, so I wish to try it. I don't mind doing or seeing
sad or disagreeable things, if it only fills up my life and helps me
to forget."

"You will help more by giving of your abundance to those who know
how to dispense it wisely, than by trying to do it yourself, my
dear. I never advise pretty creatures like you to tuck up their silk
gowns and go down into the sloughs with alms for the poor, who don't
like it any better than you do, and so much pity and money are
wasted in sentimental charity."

"Then what shall I do?"

"If you choose you can find plenty of work in your own class; for,
if you will allow me to say it, they need help quite as much as the
paupers, though in a very different way."

"Oh, you mean I'm to be strong-minded, to cry aloud and spare not,
to denounce their iniquities, and demand their money or their
lives?"

"Now, Bella, that's personal; for I made my first speech a night or
two ago."

"I know you did, and I wish I'd heard it. I'd make mine to-night if
I could do it half as well as I'm told you did," interrupted Bella,
clapping her hands with a face full of approval.

But Christie was in earnest, and produced her new project with all
speed.

"I want you to try a little experiment for me, and if it succeeds
you shall have all the glory; I've been waiting for some one to
undertake it, and I fancy you are the woman. Not every one could
attempt it; for it needs wealth and position, beauty and
accomplishments, much tact, and more than all a heart that has not
been spoilt by the world, but taught through sorrow how to value and
use life well."

"Christie, what is it? this experiment that needs so much, and yet
which you think me capable of trying?" asked Bella, interested and
flattered by this opening.

"I want you to set a new fashion: you know you can set almost any
you choose in your own circle; for people are very like sheep, and
will follow their leader if it happens to be one they fancy. I don't
ask you to be a De Stal, and have a brilliant salon: I only want
you to provide employment and pleasure for others like yourself, who
now are dying of frivolity or ennui."

"I should love to do that if I could. Tell me how."

"Well, dear, I want you to make Harry's home as beautiful and
attractive as you can; to keep all the elegance and refinement of
former times, and to add to it a new charm by setting the fashion of
common sense. Invite all the old friends, and as many new ones as
you choose; but have it understood that they are to come as
intelligent men and women, not as pleasure-hunting beaux and belles;
give them conversation instead of gossip; less food for the body and
more for the mind; the healthy stimulus of the nobler pleasures they
can command, instead of the harmful excitements of present
dissipation. In short, show them the sort of society we need more
of, and might so easily have if those who possess the means of
culture cared for the best sort, and took pride in acquiring it. Do
you understand, Bella?"

"Yes, but it's a great undertaking, and you could do it better than
I."

"Bless you, no! I haven't a single qualification for it but the will
to have it done. I'm 'strong-minded,' a radical, and a reformer.
I've done all sorts of dreadful things to get my living, and I have
neither youth, beauty, talent, or position to back me up; so I
should only be politely ignored if I tried the experiment myself. I
don't want you to break out and announce your purpose with a
flourish; or try to reform society at large, but I do want you to
devote yourself and your advantages to quietly insinuating a better
state of things into one little circle. The very fact of your own
want, your own weariness, proves how much such a reform is needed.
There are so many fine young women longing for something to fill up
the empty places that come when the first flush of youth is over,
and the serious side of life appears; so many promising young men
learning to conceal or condemn the high ideals and the noble
purposes they started with, because they find no welcome for them.
You might help both by simply creating a purer atmosphere for them
to breathe, sunshine to foster instead of frost to nip their good
aspirations, and so, even if you planted no seed, you might
encourage a timid sprout or two that would one day be a lovely
flower or a grand tree all would admire and enjoy."

As Christie ended with the figure suggested by her favorite work,
Bella said after a thoughtful pause:

"But few of the women I know can talk about any thing but servants,
dress, and gossip. Here and there one knows something of music, art,
or literature; but the superior ones are not favorites with the
larger class of gentlemen."

"Then let the superior women cultivate the smaller class of men who
do admire intelligence as well as beauty. There are plenty of them,
and you had better introduce a few as samples, though their coats
may not be of the finest broadcloth, nor their fathers 'solid men.'
Women lead in society, and when men find that they can not only
dress with taste, but talk with sense, the lords of creation will be
glad to drop mere twaddle and converse as with their equals. Bless
my heart!" cried Christie, walking about the room as if she had
mounted her hobby, and was off for a canter, "how people can go on
in such an idiotic fashion passes my understanding. Why keep up an
endless clatter about gowns and dinners, your neighbors' affairs,
and your own aches, when there is a world full of grand questions to
settle, lovely things to see, wise things to study, and noble things
to imitate. Bella, you must try the experiment, and be the queen of
a better society than any you can reign over now."

"It looks inviting, and I will try it with you to help me. I know
Harry would like it, and I'll get him to recommend it to his
patients. If he is as successful here as elsewhere they will swallow
any dose he orders; for he knows how to manage people wonderfully
well. He prescribed a silk dress to a despondent, dowdy patient
once, telling her the electricity of silk was good for her nerves:
she obeyed, and when well dressed felt so much better that she
bestirred herself generally and recovered; but to this day she sings
the praises of Dr. Carrol's electric cure."

Bella was laughing gaily as she spoke, and so was Christie as she
replied:

"That's just what I want you to do with your patients. Dress up
their minds in their best; get them out into the air; and cure their
ills by the magnetism of more active, earnest lives."

They talked over the new plan with increasing interest; for Christie
did not mean that Bella should be one of the brilliant women who
shine for a little while, and then go out like a firework. And Bella
felt as if she had found something to do in her own sphere, a sort
of charity she was fitted for, and with it a pleasant sense of power
to give it zest.

When Letty and her mother came in, they found a much happier looking
guest than the one Christie had welcomed an hour before. Scarcely
had she introduced them when voices in the lane made all look up to
see old Hepsey and Mrs. Wilkins approaching.

"Two more of my dear friends, Bella: a fugitive slave and a
laundress. One has saved scores of her own people, and is my pet
heroine. The other has the bravest, cheeriest soul I know, and is my
private oracle."

The words were hardly out of Christie's mouth when in they came;
Hepsey's black face shining with affection, and Mrs. Wilkins as
usual running over with kind words.

"My dear creeter, the best of wishes and no end of happy birthdays.
There 's a triflin' keepsake; tuck it away, and look at it byme by.
Mis' Sterlin', I'm proper glad to see you lookin' so well. Aunt
Letty, how's that darlin' child? I ain't the pleasure of your
acquaintance, Miss, but I'm pleased to see you. The children all
sent love, likewise Lisha, whose bones is better sense I tried the
camfire and red flannel."

Then they settled down like a flock of birds of various plumage and
power of song, but all amicably disposed, and ready to peck socially
at any topic which might turn up.

Mrs. Wilkins started one by exclaiming as she "laid off" her bonnet:

"Sakes alive, there's a new picter! Ain't it beautiful?"

"Colonel Fletcher brought it this morning. A great artist painted it
for him, and he gave it to me in a way that added much to its
value," answered Christie, with both gratitude and affection in her
face; for she was a woman who could change a lover to a friend, and
keep him all her life.

It was a quaint and lovely picture of Mr. Greatheart, leading the
fugitives from the City of Destruction. A dark wood lay behind; a
wide river rolled before; Mercy and Christiana pressed close to
their faithful guide, who went down the rough and narrow path
bearing a cross-hilted sword in his right hand, and holding a
sleeping baby with the left. The sun was just rising, and a long ray
made a bright path athwart the river, turned Greatheart's dinted
armor to gold, and shone into the brave and tender face that seemed
to look beyond the sunrise.

"There's just a hint of Davy in it that is very comforting to me,"
said Mrs. Sterling, as she laid her old hands softly together, and
looked up with her devout eyes full of love.

"Dem women oughter bin black," murmured Hepsey, tearfully; for she
considered David worthy of a place with old John Brown and Colonel
Shaw.

"The child looks like Pansy, we all think," added Letty, as the
little girl brought her nosegay for Aunty to tie up prettily.

Christie said nothing, because she felt too much; and Bella was also
silent because she knew too little. But Mrs. Wilkins with her kindly
tact changed the subject before it grew painful, and asked with
sudden interest:

"When be you a goin' to hold forth agin, Christie? Jest let me know
beforehand, and I'll wear my old gloves: I tore my best ones all to
rags clappin' of you; it was so extra good."

"I don't deserve any credit for the speech, because it spoke itself,
and I couldn't help it. I had no thought of such a thing till it
came over me all at once, and I was up before I knew it. I'm truly
glad you liked it, but I shall never make another, unless you think
I'd better. You know I always ask your advice, and what is more
remarkable usually take it," said Christie, glad to consult her
oracle.

"Hadn't you better rest a little before you begin any new task, my
daughter? You have done so much these last years you must be tired,"
interrupted Mrs. Sterling, with a look of tender anxiety.

"You know I work for two, mother," answered Christie, with the
clear, sweet expression her face always wore when she spoke of
David. "I am not tired yet: I hope I never shall be, for without my
work I should fall into despair or ennui. There is so much to be
done, and it is so delightful to help do it, that I never mean to
fold my hands till they are useless. I owe all I can do, for in
labor, and the efforts and experiences that grew out of it, I have
found independence, education, happiness, and religion."

"Then, my dear, you are ready to help other folks into the same
blessed state, and it's your duty to do it!" cried Mrs. Wilkins, her
keen eyes full of sympathy and commendation as they rested on
Christie's cheerful, earnest face. "Ef the sperrit moves you to
speak, up and do it without no misgivin's. I think it was a special
leadin' that night, and I hope you'll foller, for it ain't every one
that can make folks laugh and cry with a few plain words that go
right to a body's heart and stop there real comfortable and fillin'.
I guess this is your next job, my dear, and you'd better ketch hold
and give it the right turn; for it's goin' to take time, and women
ain't stood alone for so long they'll need a sight of boostin'."

There was a general laugh at the close of Mrs. Wilkins's remarks;
but Christie answered seriously: "I accept the task, and will do my
share faithfully with words or work, as shall seem best. We all need
much preparation for the good time that is coming to us, and can get
it best by trying to know and help, love and educate one
another,--as we do here."

With an impulsive gesture Christie stretched her hands to the
friends about her, and with one accord they laid theirs on hers, a
loving league of sisters, old and young, black and white, rich and
poor, each ready to do her part to hasten the coming of the happy
end.

"Me too!" cried little Ruth, and spread her chubby hand above the
rest: a hopeful omen, seeming to promise that the coming generation
of women will not only receive but deserve their liberty, by
learning that the greatest of God's gifts to us is the privilege of
sharing His great work.

"Each ready to do her part to hasten the coming of the happy end."




[Portions of this header are copyright (C) 2001 by Michael S. Hart
and may be reprinted only when these Etexts are free of all fees.]
[Project Gutenberg is a TradeMark and may not be used in any sales
of Project Gutenberg Etexts or other materials be they hardware or
software or any other related product without express permission.]





Etext prepared by Garry Gill (garrygill@hotmail.com) and the Distributed
Proofreading team of Charles Franks (http://charlz.dynip.com/gutenberg).





Wild Beasts and their Ways

Reminiscences of Europe, Asia, Africa and America


by Sir Samuel W. Baker
F.R.S., F.R.G.S., etc., etc.
Volume 1




CHAPTER I

THE RIFLE OF A PAST HALF CENTURY

Forty years ago our troops were armed with a smooth-bore musket, and a
small force known as the "Rifle Brigade" was the exception to this rule.

The military rifle carried a spherical bullet, and, like all others of
the period, it necessitated the use of a mallet to strike the ball,
which, being a size larger than the bore, required the blow to force it
into the rifling of the barrel in order to catch the grooves.

Sporting rifles were of various sizes, but they were constructed upon a
principle generally accepted, that extreme accuracy could only be
obtained by burning a very small charge of powder.

The outfit required a small mallet made of hardwood faced with thick
buff leather, a powerful loading-rod, a powder-flask, a pouch to contain
greased linen or silk patches; another pouch for percussion caps; a
third pouch for bullets. In addition to this cumbersome arrangement, a
nipple-screw was carried, lest any stoppage might render necessary the
extraction of the nipple.

The charge of powder in ordinary use for a No. 16 bore (which carried an
ounce spherical ball) was 1 1/2 dram, and the sights were adjusted for a
maximum range of 200 yards. Although at this distance considerable
accuracy could be attained at the target upon a quiet day, it was
difficult to shoot with any precision at an unmeasured range owing to
the high trajectory of the bullet. Thus for sporting purposes it was
absolutely essential that the hunter should be a first-rate judge of
distance in order to adjust the sights as required by the occasion. It
was accordingly rare to meet with a good rifle-shot fifty years ago.
Rifle-shooting was not the amusement sought by Englishmen, although in
Switzerland and Germany it was the ordinary pastime. In those countries
the match-rifle was immensely heavy, weighing, in many instances, 16
lbs., although the bullet was exceedingly small.

The idea of non-recoil was paramount as necessary to ensure accuracy.

It will be at once perceived that the rifle was a most inferior weapon,
failing through a low velocity, high trajectory, and weakness of
penetration.

In 1840, I had already devoted much attention to this subject, and I
drew a plan for an experimental rifle to burn a charge of powder so
large that it appeared preposterous to the professional opinions of the
trade. I was convinced that accuracy could be combined with power, and
that no power could be obtained without a corresponding expenditure of
powder. Trajectory and force would depend upon velocity; the latter must
depend upon the volume of gas generated by explosion.

The rifle was made by Gibbs of Bristol. The weight was 21 lbs., length
of barrel 36 inches, weight of spherical belted bullet 3 ounces, of
conical bullet 4 ounces, charge of powder 16 drams. The twist was one
full turn in the length of barrel. The rifling was an exceedingly deep
and broad groove (two grooves), which reduced the difficulty of loading
to a minimum, as the projecting belt enabled the bullet to catch the
channel instantly, and to descend easily when wrapped in a greased silk
patch without the necessity of hammering. The charge of powder was
inserted by inverting the rifle and passing up the loading-rod with an
ounce measure screwed to the end; this method prevented the powder from
adhering to the sides of the barrel, and thus fouling the grooves.

An extraordinary success attended this rifle, which became my colossal
companion for many years in wild sports with dangerous game. It will be
observed that the powder charge was one-third the weight of the
projectile, and not only a tremendous crushing power, but an
extraordinary penetration was obtained, never equalled by any rifle that
I have since possessed.

This weapon was in advance of the age, as it foreshadowed the modern
Express, and the principle was thoroughly established to my own
satisfaction, that a sporting rifle to be effective at a long range must
burn a heavy charge of powder, but the weight of the weapon should be in
due proportion to the strain of the explosion.

When I first visited Ceylon in 1845, there were several renowned
sportsmen who counted their slain elephants by many hundreds, but there
were no rifles. Ordinary smooth-bore shot-guns were the favourite
weapons, loaded invariably with a double charge of powder and a hardened
ball. In those days the usual calibre of a gun was No. 14 or 16. A No.
12 was extremely rare. The charge for No. 16 was 2 3/4 drams of fine
grain powder, and drams for No. 12. Accordingly, the light guns, or
"fowling-pieces," as they were termed, were severely tested by a charge
of 6 drams of the strongest powder with a hardened bullet; nevertheless
I never heard of any failure.

At a short range the velocity and penetration of an ounce spherical
ball, with the heavy powder charge, were immense, but beyond 50 yards
the accuracy was imperfect.

I believe I was the first to introduce rifles into Ceylon, which were
then regarded by the highest authorities in the island as impractical
innovations, too difficult to sight, whereas an ordinary gun could be
used with ball more quickly in taking a snap-shot.

The rifles which I had provided were heavy, the 3 ounce already
mentioned, 21 lbs., and a long 2 ounce by Blisset, 16 lbs. The latter
was a polygroove, the powder charge only 1 1/2 dram when I originally
purchased it. It was wonderfully accurate at short ranges with the small
charge, which I quickly increased to 6 drams, thereby losing accuracy,
but multiplying velocity.

Twelve months' experience with elephants and buffaloes decided me to
order a battery of double-barrelled rifles, No. 10, two-grooved, with 6
drams of fine grain powder, and spherical-belted bullets. These were
most satisfactory, and they became the starting-point for future
experiments.

Shortly before the Crimean War, the musket was abolished, and about 1853
the British army was armed throughout with rifles. The difficulty of a
military rifle lay in the rapid fouling of the barrel, which
necessitated a bullet too small to expand sufficiently to fill the
grooves; this resulted in inaccuracy. Even if the bullet were properly
fitted, it became impossible to load when the barrel began to foul after
a few discharges.

At that time I submitted a plan to the authorities which simplified the
difficulty, and having left the pattern bullet at Woolwich, it quickly
appeared with a slight modification as the "Boxer bullet." My plan
designed a cone hollowed at the base. The bullet was a size smaller than
the bore, which enabled it to slide easily down the barrel when foul.
The hollow base fitted upon a cone of boxwood pointed at the insertion,
but broad at the base, which was larger than the diameter of the hollow
in the bullet. It may be easily understood that although this compound
bullet was smaller than the bore of the rifle, a blow with the ramrod
after loading would drive the conical bullet upon the larger diameter of
the boxwood cone, which, acting like a wedge, would expand the lead,
thus immediately secured within the barrel. The expansion when fired
drove the boxwood into the centre of the bullet, which of necessity took
the rifling.

The Boxer bullet superseded the boxwood plug by the use of a piece of
burnt clay, which was less expensive and equally serviceable.

Before breechloaders were invented, we were obliged to fit out a regular
battery of four double rifles for such dangerous game as elephants,
buffaloes, etc., as the delay in re-loading was most annoying and might
lead to fatal accidents.

In hot damp climates it became necessary to fire off and clean the
entire battery every evening, lest a miss-fire should be the consequence
upon the following morning from the condensation of moisture in the
nipple during night. This was not only great trouble and a wasteful
expenditure of ammunition, but the noise of so many loud reports just at
the hour when wild animals were on the move, alarmed the country.
Trustworthy gun-carriers are always difficult to procure, and it was by
no means uncommon that in moments of danger, when the spare rifles were
required, the gun-bearers had bolted from the scene, and the master was
deserted.

The introduction of breechloaders has made shooting a luxury, and has
obviated the necessity of a large battery of guns. For military purposes
the breechloader has manifold advantages--as the soldier can load while
lying down, and keep up a rapid fire from a secure cover. It was
remarked during the Crimean War that a large proportion of wounded men
were struck in the right arm, which would have been raised above the
head when loading the old-fashioned rifle, and was thus prominently
exposed.

It is not my intention to enter into the minutiae of military rifles,
but I cannot resist the satisfaction with which I regard the triumph of
the small-bore which I advocated through the columns of the Times in
1865, at a time when the idea was opposed by nearly all authorities as
impracticable, owing to the alleged great drawback of rapid fouling.
There can be no doubt that the charge of 70 grains with a small-bore
bullet, '303, will have a lower trajectory (higher velocity
(equivalent to long range)) than a heavier projectile, '450, with the
additional advantage of a minimum recoil.

The earliest in the field of progress was the old-established firm of
Purdey and Co. Mr. Purdey, before the general introduction of
breechloaders, brought out an Express rifle, No. 70 bore, with a
mechanically fitting two-groove solid bullet. This small projectile was
a well-pointed cone weighing exactly 200 grains, with a powder charge of
110 grains, more than half the weight of the bullet. The extremely high
velocity of this rifle expanded the pure soft lead upon impact with the
skin and muscles of a red deer. At the same time there was no loss of
substance in the metal, as the bullet, although much disfigured,
remained intact, and continued its course of penetration, causing great
havoc by its increased surface. Nothing has surpassed this rifle in
velocity, although so many improvements have taken place since the
introduction of breechloaders, but in the days of muzzle-loaders it was
a satisfaction to myself that I was the first to commence the heavy
charge of powder with the 3 ounce bullet and 16 drams, to be followed
after many years by so high an authority as Mr. Purdey with a 200 grain
bullet and 110 grains of powder, thus verifying the principle of my
earliest experience.

This principle is now universally accepted, and charges of powder are
used, as a rule, which forty years ago would have been regarded as
impossible.

The modern breechloader in the hands of a well-trained soldier should be
a most deadly weapon, nevertheless we do not find a greater percentage
of destruction among the numbers engaged than resulted from the old
Brown Bess. The reason is obvious: battles are now fought at long
ranges, whereas in the early portion of the century fire was seldom
opened at a greater distance than 200 yards, and the actual struggle
terminated at close quarters.

A long-range rifle in the excitement of a hot action has several
disadvantages. The sights may have been set for 600 or 800 yards when
the enemy was at a distance, but should that interval be decreased by an
approach at speed, the sights would require an immediate readjustment,
otherwise the bullets would fly overhead, and the nearer the enemy
advanced, the safer he would be. Troops require most careful training
with the new weapons entrusted to their care. Although a rapidity of
fire if well directed must have a terrible result, there can be no
question that it engenders a wild excitement, and that a vast amount of
ammunition is uselessly expended, which, if reserved by slower but
steady shooting, would be far more deadly.

Although the difficulty is great in preventing troops from independent
firing when their blood is up in the heat of combat, the paramount duty
of an officer should be to control all wildness, and to insist upon
volleys in sections of companies by word of command, the sights of the
rifles being carefully adjusted, and a steady aim being taken at the
knees of the enemy.

There cannot be a better example than the advice upon this subject given
by the renowned General Wolfe (who was subsequently killed at the siege of
Quebec) to the 20th Regiment, of which he was Colonel, when England was
hourly expecting an invasion by the French:--... "There is no necessity
for firing very fast; ... a cool well-levelled fire with the pieces
carefully loaded is much more destructive than the quickest fire in
confusion."--At Canterbury, 17th December 1755.

This instruction should be sternly impressed upon the minds of all
soldiers, as it is the text upon which all admonitory addresses should
be founded. It must not be forgotten that General Wolfe's advice was
given to men armed with the old muzzle-loading Brown Bess (musket),
which at that time was provided with a lock of flint and steel.
Notwithstanding the slowness of fire necessitated by this antiquated
weapon, the General cautioned his men by the assurance, "There is no
necessity for firing very fast," etc., etc.

The breechloader is valuable through the power which exists, especially
with repeating rifles, for pouring in an unremitting fire whenever the
opportunity may offer, but under ordinary circumstances the fire should
be reserved with the care suggested by the advice of General Wolfe.

Small-bores have become the fashion of the day, and for military
purposes they are decidedly the best, as a greater amount of ammunition
can be carried by the soldier, while at the same time the range and
trajectory of his weapon are improved. The new magazine rifle adopted by
the Government is only '303, but this exceedingly small diameter will
contain 70 grains of powder with a bullet of hard alloy weighing 216
grains.

For sporting purposes the small-bore has been universally adopted, but I
cannot help thinking that like many other fashions, it has been carried
beyond the rules of common sense.

When upon entering a gunmaker's shop the inexperienced purchaser is
perplexed by the array of rifles and guns, varying in their characters
almost as much as human beings, he should never listen to the advice of
the manufacturer until he has asked himself what he really requires.

There are many things to be considered before an order should be
positively given. What is the rifle wanted for? What is the personal
strength of the purchaser? In what portion of the world is he going to
shoot? Will he be on foot, or will he shoot from horseback or from an
elephant? Will the game be dangerous, or will it be confined to deer,
etc.?

Not only the weapon but the ammunition will depend upon a reply to these
questions, and the purchaser should strongly resist the delusion that
any one particular description will be perfect as a so-called general
rifle. You may as well expect one kind of horse or one pattern of ship
to combine all the requirements of locomotion as to suppose that a
particular rifle will suit every variety of game or condition of
locality.

In South Africa accuracy is necessary at extremely long ranges for the
open plains, where antelopes in vast herds are difficult of approach. In
Indian jungles the game is seldom seen beyond fifty or sixty yards. In
America the stalking among the mountains is similar to that of the
Scottish Highlands, but upon a larger scale. In Central Africa the
distances are as uncertain as the quality of the animals that may be
encountered.

Upon the level plains of India, where the blackbuck forms the main
object of pursuit, extreme accuracy and long range combined are
necessary, with a hollow Express bullet that will not pass through the
body. How is it possible that any one peculiar form of rifle can combine
all these requirements? Rifles must be specially adapted for the animals
against which they are to be directed. I have nothing to do with the
purse, but I confine my remarks to the weapons and the game, and I shall
avoid technical expressions.

The generally recognised small-bores, all of which are termed "Express"
from the large charge of powder, are as follow:--

Small-bore   Charge of       Large-   Charge of     For all Game
Express.     Powder.         bores.   Powder.       such as*

'577         6 1/2 drams     4 bore   14 drams      Elephants.
'500         5 1/2   "       8  "     14   "        Rhinoceros.
'450         5       "      10  "     12   "        Buffaloes.
'400         4       "      12  "     10   "
'360    Toys.
'295    Toys.

The two latter rifles, '360 and '295, are charming additions, and
although capable of killing deer are only to be recommended as
companions for a stroll but not to be classed as sporting rifles for
ordinary game. They are marvellously accurate, and afford great
satisfaction for shooting small animals and birds. The '360 may be used
for shooting black-buck, but I should not recommend it if the hunter
possesses a '400.

It would be impossible to offer advice that would suit all persons.  I
can therefore only give a person opinion according to my own experience.

For all animals above the size of a fallow deer and below that of a
buffalo I prefer the '577 solid Express--648 grains solid bullet,--6
drams powder not 6 1/2, as the charge of only 6 drams produces greater
accuracy at long ranges.

The weight of this rifle should be 11 1/2 lbs., or not exceeding 12 lbs.
For smaller game, from fallow deer downwards, I prefer the '400 Express
with a charge of from 85 grains to 4 drams of powder--solid bullet,
excepting the case of black-buck, where, on account of numerous villages
on the plains, it is necessary that the bullet should not pass through
the body. The important question of weight is much in favour of the
'400, as great power and velocity are obtained by a weapon of only 8 1/2
lbs.

I should therefore limit my battery to one '577, one '400, and one
Paradox No. 12, for ordinary game in India, as elephants and other of
the larger animals require special outfit. The Paradox*, invented by
Colonel Fosberry and manufactured by Messrs. Holland and Holland of Bond
Street, is a most useful weapon, as it combines the shot-gun with a
rifle that is wonderfully accurate within a range of 100 yards. (* Since
this was written Messrs. Holland have succeeded after lengthened
experiments in producing a Paradox No. 8, which burns 10 drams of
powder, and carries a very heavy bullet with extreme accuracy. This will
be a new departure in weapons for heavy game.)

It is a smooth-bore slightly choked, but severely rifled for only 1 1/2
inch in length from the muzzle. This gives the spin to the projectile
sufficient to ensure accuracy at the distance mentioned.

The No. 12 Paradox weighs 84 lbs. and carries a bullet of 1 3/4 ounce
with 4 1/2 drams of powder. Although the powder charge is not sufficient
to produce a high express velocity, the penetration and shock are most
formidable, as the bullet is of hardened metal, and it retains its
figure even after striking a tough hide and bones. The advantage of such
a gun is obvious, as it enables a charge of buck-shot to be carried in
the left barrel, while the right is loaded with a heavy bullet that is
an admirable bone-smasher; it also supersedes the necessity of an extra
gun for small game, as it shoots No. 6 shot with equal pattern to the
best cylinder-bored gun.

There are many persons who prefer a '500 or a '450 Express to the '577
or the '400. I have nothing to say against them, but I prefer those I
have named, as the '577 is the most fatal weapon that I have ever used,
and with 6 or 6 1/2 drams of powder it is quite equal to any animal in
creation, provided the shot is behind the shoulder. This provision
explains my reason for insisting that all animals from a buffalo upwards
should be placed in a separate category, as it is frequently impossible
to obtain a shoulder shot, therefore the rifles for exceedingly heavy
game must be specially adapted for the work required, so as to command
them in every conceivable position.

I have shot with every size of rifle from a half pounder explosive
shell, and I do not think any larger bore is actually necessary than a
No. 8, with a charge of 12 or 14 drams of powder. Such a rifle should
weigh 15 lbs., and the projectile would weigh 3 ounces of hardened
metal.

The rifles that I have enumerated would be always double, but should the
elephant-hunter desire anything more formidable, I should recommend a
single barrel of 36 inches in length of bore, weighing 22 lbs., and
sighted most accurately to 400 yards. Such a weapon could be used by a
powerful man from the shoulder at the close range of fifty yards, or it
could be fired at long ranges upon a pivot rest, which would enable the
elephant-hunter to kill at a great distance by the shoulder shot when
the animals were in deep marshes or on the opposite side of a river. I
have frequently seen elephants in such positions when it was impossible
to approach within reasonable range. A rifle of this description would
carry a half-pound shell with an exploding charge of half an ounce of
fine grain powder and the propelling charge would be 16 drams. I had a
rifle that carried a similar charge, but unfortunately it was too short,
and was only sighted for 100 yards. Such a weapon can hardly be classed
among sporting rifles, but it would be a useful adjunct to the battery
of a professional hunter in Africa.

There can be little doubt that a man should not be overweighted, but
that every person should be armed in proportion to his physical
strength. If he is too light for a very heavy rifle he must select a
smaller bore; if he is afraid of a No. 8 with 14 drams, he must be
content with a No. 12 and 10 drams, but although he may be successful
with the lighter weapon, he must not expect the performance will equal
that of the superior power.

It may therefore be concluded that for a man of ordinary strength, the
battery for the heaviest game should be a pair of double No. 8 rifles
weighing 14 or 15 lbs. to burn from 12 to 14 drams of powder, with a
hardened bullet of 3 ounces. Such a rifle will break the bones of any
animal from an elephant downwards, and would rake a buffalo from end to
end, which is a matter of great importance when the beast is charging.

Although the rifle is now thoroughly appreciated, and sportsmen of
experience have accepted the Express as embodying the correct principle
of high velocity, I differ with many persons of great authority in the
quality of projectiles, which require as much consideration as the
pattern of the gun.

The Express rifle is a term signifying velocity, and this is generally
accompanied by a hollow bullet which is intended to serve two purposes--
to lighten the bullet, and therefore to reduce the work of the powder,
and to secure an expansion and smash-up of the lead upon impact with the
animal. I contend that the smashing up of the bullet is a mistake,
excepting in certain cases such as I have already mentioned, where the
animal is small and harmless like the black-buck, which inhabits level
plains in the vicinity of population, and where the bullet would be
exceedingly dangerous should it pass through the antelope and ricochet
into some unlucky village.

As I have already advised the purchaser of a rifle to consider the
purpose for which he requires the weapon, in like manner I would suggest
that he should reflect upon the special purpose for which he requires
the bullet. He should ask himself the questions--"What is a bullet?"
and "What is the duty of a bullet?"

A bullet is generally supposed to be a projectile capable of retaining
its component parts in their integrity. The duty of the bullet is to
preserve its direct course; it should possess a power of great
penetration, should not be easily deflected, and together with
penetrating power it should produce a stunning effect by an overpowering
striking energy.

How are we to combine these qualities? If the projectile has great
penetrating force it will pass completely through an animal, and the
striking energy will be diminished, as the force that should have been
expended upon the body is expending itself in propelling the bullet
after it has passed through the body. This must be wrong, as it is
self-evident that the striking energy or knock-down blow must depend
upon the resistance which the body offers to the projectile. If the
bullet remains within it, the striking energy; complete and entire,
without any waste whatever, remains within the body struck. If,
therefore, a bullet '577 of 648 grains propelled by 6 drams of powder
has at fifty yards a striking energy of 3500 foot pounds, that force is
expended upon the object struck,--provided it is stopped by the
opposing body.

We should therefore endeavour to prevent the bullet from passing through
an animal, if it is necessary to concentrate the full power of the
projectile upon the resisting body.

This is one reason adduced in favour of the hollow Express bullet, which
smashes up into minute films of lead when it strikes the hard muscles of
an animal, owing to its extreme velocity, and the weakness of its parts
through the hollowness of its centre.

I contend, on the contrary, that the bullet has committed suicide by
destroying itself, although its fragments may have fatally torn and
injured the vital organs of the wounded animal. The bullet has ceased to
exist, as it is broken into fifty shreds; therefore it is dead, as it is
no longer a compact body,--in fact, it has disappeared, although the
actual striking energy of a very inferior bullet may have been expended
upon the animal.

If the animal is small and harmless, this should be the desired result.
If, on the other hand, the animal should be large and dangerous, there
cannot be a greater mistake than the hollow Express projectile.

I have frequently heard persons of great experience dilate with
satisfaction upon the good shots made with their little '450 hollow
Express exactly behind the shoulder of a tiger or some other animal. I
have also heard of their failures, which were to themselves sometimes
incomprehensible. A solid Express '577 NEVER fails if the direction is
accurate towards a vital part. The position of the animal does not
signify; if the hunter has a knowledge of comparative anatomy (which he
must have, to be a thoroughly successful shot) he can make positively
certain of his game at a short distance, as the solid bullet will crash
through muscle, bone, and every opposing obstacle to reach the fatal
organ. If the animal be a tiger, lion, bear, or leopard, the bullet
should have the power to penetrate, but it should not pass completely
through. If it should be a wapiti, or sambur stag, the bullet should
also remain within, retained in all cases under the skin upon the side
opposite to that of entrance. How is this to be managed by the same
rifle burning the same charge of powder with a solid bullet?

The penetration must be arranged by varying the material of the bullet.
A certain number of cartridges should be loaded with bullets of extreme
hardness, intended specially for large thick-skinned animals; other
bullets should be composed of softer metal, which would expand upon the
resisting muscles but would not pass completely through the skin upon
the opposite side. The cartridges would be coloured for distinction.

If the metal is pure lead, the bullet '577, with an initial velocity of
1650 feet per second, will assuredly assume the form of a button
mushroom immediately upon impact, and it will increase in diameter as it
meets with resistance upon its course until, when expended beneath the
elastic hide upon the opposite side, it will have become fully spread
like a mature mushroom, instead of the button shape that it had assumed
on entrance. I prefer pure lead for tigers, lions, sambur deer, wapiti,
and such large animals which are not thick-skinned, as the bullet alters
its form and nevertheless remains intact, the striking energy being
concentrated within the body.

The difference in the striking energy of a hollow bullet from that of a
solid projectile is enormous, owing to the inequality in weight. The
hollow bullet wounds mortally, but it does not always kill neatly. I
have seen very many instances where the '500 hollow Express with 5 drams
of powder has struck an animal well behind the shoulder, or sometimes
through the shoulder, and notwithstanding the fatal wound, the beast has
galloped off as though untouched, for at least a hundred yards, before
it fell suddenly, and died.

This is clumsy shooting. The solid bullet of pure lead would have killed
upon the spot, as the bullet would have retained its substance although
it altered its form, and the shock would have been more severe, The
hollow bullet exhibits a peculiar result in a post-mortem examination:
the lungs may be hopelessly torn and ragged, the liver and the heart may
be also damaged, all by the same projectile, because it has been
converted into small shot immediately upon impact. Frequently a minute
hole will be observed upon the entrance, and within an inch beneath the
skin a large aperture will be seen where an explosion appears to have
taken place by the breaking-up of the lead, all of which has splashed
into fragments scattering in every direction.

Common sense will suggest that although such a bullet will kill, it is
not the sort of weapon to stop a dangerous animal when in full charge.
Weak men generally prefer the hollow Express because the rifle is
lighter and handier than the more formidable weapon, and the recoil is
not so severe, owing to the lightness of the bullet.

My opinion may be expressed in a few words. If you wish the bullet to
expand, use soft lead, but keep the metal solid. If you wish for great
penetration, use hard solid metal, either 1/10 tin or 1/13 quicksilver.
Even this will alter its form against the bones of a buffalo, but either
of the above will go clean through a wapiti stag, and would kill another
beyond it should the rifle be '577 fired with 6 drams of powder.

The same rifle will not drive a soft leaden solid bullet through a male
tiger if struck directly through the shoulder; it will be found
flattened to a mushroom form beneath the skin upon the other side,
having performed its duty effectively, by killing the tiger upon the
spot, and retaining intact the metal of which it was composed.

A post-mortem inquiry in the latter case would be most satisfactory. If
the bullet shall have struck fair upon the shoulder-joint, it will be
observed that although it has retained its substance, the momentum has
been conveyed to every fragment of crushed bone, which will have been
driven forward through the lungs like a charge of buckshot, in addition
to the havoc created by the large diameter of an expanded '577 bullet.
Both shoulders will have been completely crushed, and the animal must of
course be rendered absolutely helpless. This is a sine qua non in all
shooting. Do not wound, but kill outright; and this you will generally
do with a '577 solid bullet of pure lead, or with a Paradox bullet 1 3/4
ounces hard metal and 4 1/2 drams of powder. This very large bullet is
sufficiently formidable to require no expansion.

Gunmakers will not advise the use of pure lead for bullets, as it is apt
to foul the barrel by its extreme softness, which leaves a coating of
the metal upon the surface of the rifling. For military purposes this
objection would hold good, but so few shots are fired at game during the
day, that no disadvantage could accrue, and the rifle would of course be
cleaned every evening.

The accidents which unfortunately so often happen to the hunters of
dangerous game may generally be traced to the defect in the rifles
employed. If a shooter wishes to amuse himself in Scotland among the
harmless red deer, let him try any experiments that may please him; but
if he is a man like so many who leave the shores of Great Britain for
the wild jungles of the East, or of Africa, let him at once abjure
hollow bullets if he seeks dangerous game. Upon this subject I press my
opinion, as I feel the immense responsibility of advice should any
calamity occur. It is only a few months since the lamented Mr. Ingram
was killed by an elephant in the Somali country, through using a '450
Express hollow bullet against an animal that should at least have been
attacked with a No. 10. I submit the question to any admirer of the
hollow Express. "If he is on foot, trusting only to his rifle for
protection, would he select a hollow Express, no matter whether '577,
'500, or '450; or would he prefer a solid bullet to withstand a
dangerous charge?"

India is a vast empire, and various portions, according to the
conditions of localities, have peculiar customs for the conduct of wild
sports. In dense jungles, where it would be impossible to see the game
if on foot, there is no other way of obtaining a shot except by driving.
The gunners are in such case placed at suitable intervals upon platforms
called mucharns, securely fitted between convenient forks among the
branches of a tree, about 10 or 12 feet above the ground. From this
point of vantage the gunner can see without being seen and, thoroughly
protected from all danger, he may amuse himself by comparing the success
of his shooting with the hollow Express or with the solid bullet at the
animals that pass within his range, which means a limit of about 50
yards. I contend that at the short distance named; a tiger should NEVER
escape from a solid bullet; he often escapes from the hollow bullet for
several reasons.

It must be remembered that animals are rarely seen distinctly in a thick
jungle, countless twigs and foliage intercept the bullet, and the view,
although patent to both open eyes, becomes misty and obscure when you
shut one eye and squint along the barrel. You then discover that
although you can see the dim shadow of your game, your bullet will have
to cut its way through at least twenty twigs before it can reach its
goal. A solid bullet may deflect slightly, but it will generally deliver
its message direct, unless the opposing objects are more formidable than
ordinary small branches. A hollow bullet from an Express rifle will fly
into fragments should it strike a twig the size of the little finger.
This is quite sufficient to condemn the hollow projectile without any
further argument.

While writing the above, I have received the Pioneer, 24th June 1888,
which gives the following account of an escape from a tiger a few weeks
ago by Mr. Cuthbert Fraser, and no better example could be offered to
prove the danger of a hollow bullet. It will be seen that a solid bullet
would have killed the tiger on the spot, as it would have penetrated to
the brain, instead of which it broke into the usual fragments when
striking the hard substance of the teeth, and merely destroyed one eye.
The bullet evidently splashed up without breaking the jaw, as the
wounded animal was not only capable of killing the orderly, but Mr.
Fraser "heard, in fact, the crunching of the man's bones." He says "that
he felt that he had the tiger dead when he fired, but the Express bullet
unfortunately broke up." He had fired the left-hand barrel into the
tiger's chest without the slightest result in checking the onset; had
that been a solid bullet it would have penetrated to the heart or lungs.

ADVENTURE WITH A TIGER.

The following experience of a sportsman in the Deccan is from the
Secunderabad paper of 14th June 1888:--

    "Mr. Cuthbert Fraser had a most miraculous escape from a
    tiger the other day at Amraoti. The lucky hero of this
    adventure is a District Superintendent of Police in Berar.
    He is well remembered in Secunderabad as Superintendent of
    the Cantonment Police before Mr. Crawford. A son of Colonel
    Hastings Fraser, one of the Frasers of Lovat, he has proved
    his possession of that nerve and courage which rises to the
    emergency of danger--on which qualities more than all else
    the British Empire in India has been built, and on which,
    after all is said, in the last resort, it must be still held
    to rest. To quote the graphic account of a correspondent,
    the escape was about as narrow as was ever had. Mr. Fraser
    was told by his orderly that the tiger was lying dead with
    his head on the root of a tree. The orderly having called
    him up, he went to the spot. Mr. Fraser then sent the
    orderly and another man with the second gun back, and knelt
    down to look. Just then the tiger roared and came at him
    from about eighteen feet off: he waited till the tiger was
    within five feet of him and fired. As the tiger did not
    drop, he fired his second shot hurriedly. The first shot had
    hit exactly in the centre of the face but just an inch too
    low. It knocked the tiger's right eye out and smashed all
    the teeth of that side of the jaw. The second shot struck
    the tiger in the chest, but too low. What happened then Mr.
    Fraser does not exactly know, but he next found himself
    lying in front of the tiger, one claw of the beast's right
    foot being hooked into his left leg, in this way trying to
    draw Mr. Fraser towards him; the other paw was on his right
    leg. Mr. Fraser's chin and coat were covered with foam from
    the beast's mouth. He tried hard to draw himself out of the
    tiger's clutches. Fortunately the beast was not able to see
    him, as Mr. Fraser was a little to one side on the animal's
    blind side and the tiger's head was up. Suddenly seeing Mr.
    Fraser's orderly bolting, he jumped up and went for the man,
    and catching him he killed him on the spot. Mr. Fraser had
    lost his hat, rifle, and all his cartridges, which had
    tumbled out of his pocket. He jumped up, however, and ran to
    the man who had his second gun, and to do so had to go
    within eight paces of the spot where the tiger was crouching
    over his orderly. He heard, in fact, the crunching of the
    man's bones and saw the tiger biting the back of the head.
    He now took the gun from his man. The latter said that he
    had fired both barrels into the tiger--one when he was
    crouching over Mr. Fraser, and the other when he was over
    the prostrate body of the orderly. The man had fired well
    and true, but just too far back, in his anxiety not to hit
    the man he would save, instead of the tiger. When afterwards
    asked if he was not afraid to hit the Sahib, 'I was very
    much afraid indeed,' he replied, 'but dil mazbut karke
    lagaya: I nerved myself for the occasion.' 'A good man and
    true!' a high officer writes, 'who after firing never moved
    an inch till Mr. Fraser came to him, although close to the
    tiger all the while. He is one of the Gawilghur Rajputs--a
    brave race, Ranjit Singh, a good name.' The man said he had
    no more cartridges left and so they both got a little
    farther from the tiger, as the orderly was evidently done
    for. Afterwards they found one more cartridge for the gun
    and tried to recover the body, but it was no use. The tiger
    was lying close, most of the buffaloes had bolted and the
    Kurkoos would not help. Mr. Fraser then sent six miles off
    for an elephant. But the animal did not arrive till dark, so
    Mr. Fraser went home in great grief about the poor orderly
    and at having to leave the body. His own wound was bleeding
    a great deal, it being a deep claw gash. Next day they got
    the body and the tiger dead, lying close to each other.
    Perhaps no narrower escape than Mr. Fraser's has ever been
    heard of. To the excellent shot which knocked the beast's
    eye out he undoubtedly owes his life. He says that he felt
    that he had the tiger dead when he fired, but the Express
    bullet unfortunately broke up. Probably, he thinks a 12-bore
    would have reached the brain."

I could produce numerous instances where failures have occurred, and I
know sportsmen of long experience who have given up the use of hollow
bullets except against such small game as black-buck and other antelopes
or deer.

So much for the Express hollow bullet, after which it is at the option
of all persons to please themselves; but personally I should decline the
company of any friend who wished to join me in the pursuit of dangerous
game if armed with such an inferior weapon. In another portion of this
volume I shall produce a striking instance of the result.

The magazine rifle, which is destined to become the military arm of the
future, can hardly merit a place among sporting rifles, as it must
always possess the disadvantage of altering its balance as the
ammunition is expended. The Winchester Company have, I believe, produced
a great improvement in a rifle of this kind, '400, which carries a
charge of 110 grains of powder; but even so small a bore must be unhandy
if the rifle is arranged to contain a supply of cartridges. For my own
use I am quite contented with one '577, a '400, and a No. 12 Paradox -
all solid bullets, but varying in hardness of metal according to the
quality of game; for the largest animals a pair of No. 8 rifles with
hard bullets and 14 drams of powder.

I can say nothing more concerning rifles for the practical use of
sportsmen, although a volume might be devoted to their history and
development. Shot guns are too well understood to merit a special
notice.



CHAPTER II

THE ELEPHANT (ELEPHAS)

This animal has interested mankind more than any other, owing to the
peculiar combination of immense proportions with extraordinary sagacity.
The question has frequently been raised "Whether the elephant or the dog
should be accepted as superior in intelligence?" My own experience would
decide without hesitation--The Dog is man's companion; the Elephant is
his slave.

We all know the attachment and fidelity of the dog, who appears to have
been created specially to become the friend of the human race. He
attaches himself equally to the poor man and the rich, and shares our
fortunes "for better, for worse," clinging with heroic loyalty to his
master when all other friends may have abandoned him. The power of
memory is wonderfully exhibited, considering the shortness of life which
Nature, by some mischance has accorded to man's best friend.

"While thus Florinda spake, the dog who lay Before Rusilla's feet,
eyeing him long And wistfully, had recognised at length, Changed as he
was and in those sordid weeds, His royal master. And he rose and lick'd
His withered hand, and earnestly looked up With eyes whose human meaning
did not need The aid of speech; and moan'd, as if at once To court and
chide the long-withheld caress... . . . . . . . Disputing, he withdrew.
The watchful dog Followed his footsteps close. But he retired Into the
thickest grove; there yielding way To his o'erburthen'd nature, from all
eyes Apart, he cast himself upon the ground, And threw his arms around
the dog, and cried While tears stream'd down. Thou Theron, thou hast
known Thy poor lost master... Theron, only thou!"--

Southey's "Roderick, last of the Goths."

In case of danger the dog will defend his master, guided by his own
unaided intelligence; he at once detects and attacks the enemy. In wild
sports he *shares the delight of hunting equally with his master, and
the two are inseparable allies. The day is over, and he lies down and
sleeps before the fire at his master's feet, and dreams of the dangers
and exploits; he is a member of his master's household.

The elephant is, in my opinion, overrated.  He can be educated to
perform certain acts, but he would never volunteer his services. There
is no elephant that I ever saw who would spontaneously interfere to save
his master from drowning or from attack. An enemy might assassinate you
at the feet of your favourite elephant, but he would never attempt to
interfere in your defence; he would probably run away, or remain
impassive, unless guided and instructed by his mahout. This is
incontestable; the elephant will do nothing useful unless he is
specially ordered to perform a certain work or movement.

While condemning this apathetic character, we must admit that in the
elephant the power of learning is extraordinary, and that it can be
educated to perform wonders; but such performances are only wonderful as
proving the necessary force of direction and guidance by a superior
power, to which the animal is amenable.

I have had very many years' experience with elephants, both Asiatic and
African, and in my opinion they are naturally timid. Although in a wild
state the males are more or less dangerous, especially in Africa, the
herd of elephants will generally retreat should they even wind an unseen
enemy. This timidity is increased by domestication, and it is difficult
to obtain an elephant sufficiently staunch to withstand the attack of
any wild animal. They will generally turn tail, and not only retreat
gracefully, but will run in a disgraceful panic, to the great danger of
their riders should the locality be forest.

The difference in species is distinct between the Asiatic and the
African. It is at all times difficult to give the measurement of a dead
animal, especially when so enormous, as the pressure of weight when
alive would reduce the height afforded by measurement when the body is
horizontal.

The well-known African elephant Jumbo that was sold to America by the
Zoological Society of London, was brought up in confinement since its
early existence, when it was about 4 feet 6 inches high. That elephant
was carefully weighed and measured before it left England, with the
result, of height at shoulder, 11 feet; weight, six tons and a half. The
girth of the fore-foot when the pressure of the animal's weight was
exerted, was exactly half the perpendicular height of the elephant. I
have seen very much larger animals in Africa, but there is nothing in
India to approach the size of Jumbo.

There is no reason why the African elephants should not be tamed and
made useful, but the difficulty lies in obtaining them in any great
numbers. The natives of Africa are peculiarly savage, and their
instincts of destruction prevent them from capturing and domesticating
any wild animals. During nine years' experience of Central Africa I
never saw a tamed creature of any kind, not even a bird, or a young
antelope in possession of a child. The tame elephant would be especially
valuable to an explorer, as it could march through streams too deep for
the passage of oxen, and in swimming rivers it would be proof against
the attacks of crocodiles. So few African elephants have been tamed in
proportion to those of Asia that it would be difficult to pronounce an
opinion upon their character when domesticated, but it is generally
believed by their trainers that the Indian species is more gentle and
amenable to discipline. The power of the African is far in excess of the
Asiatic. Nine feet at the highest portion of the back is a good height
for an Indian male, and eight feet for the female, although occasionally
they are considerably larger. There are hardly any elephants that
measure ten feet in a direct perpendicular, although the mahouts pretend
to fictitious heights by measuring with a tape or cord from the spine,
including the curve of the body.

As Jumbo was proved to have attained the height of eleven feet although
in captivity from infancy, it may be easily imagined that in a wild
state the African elephant will attain twelve feet, or even more. I have
myself seen many animals that would have exceeded this, although it
would be impossible to estimate their height with accuracy.

The shape of the African variety is very peculiar, and differs in a
remarkable manner from the Asiatic. The highest point is the shoulder,
and the back is hollow; in the Indian the back is convex, and the
shoulder is considerably lower. The head of the African is quite unlike
that of the Indian; and the ears, which in the former are enormous,
completely cover the shoulder when thrown back. The best direction for a
vital shot at an African elephant is at the extremity of the ear when
flapped against the side. A bullet thus placed will pass through the
centre of the lungs. The Indian elephant has many more laminae in the
teeth than the African, constituting a larger grinding surface, as the
food is different. The African feeds upon foliage and the succulent
roots of the mimosa and other trees, which it digs up with its powerful
tusks; the forests are generally evergreen, and being full of sap, the
bark is easier to masticate than the skeleton trees of India during the
hottest season. Both the Indian and African varieties have only four
teeth, composed of laminae of intensely hard enamel, divided by a softer
substance which prevents the surface from becoming smooth with age; the
two unequal materials retain their inequality in wear, therefore the
rough grinding surface is maintained notwithstanding the work of many
years. A gland at the posterior of the jaw supplies a tooth-forming
matter, and the growth of fresh laminae is continuous throughout life;
the younger laminae form into line, and march forward until incorporated
and solidified in the tooth.

It is impossible to define exactly the limit of old age, as there can be
little doubt that captivity shortens the duration of life to a great
degree. We can only form an opinion from the basis of growth when young.
As an elephant cannot be fully developed in the perfection of ivory
until the age of forty, I should accept that age in a wild animal as the
period of a starting-point in life, and I should imagine that the term
of existence would be about a hundred and fifty years.

The life of an elephant in captivity is exactly opposed to its natural
habits. A wild Indian elephant dreads the sun, and is seldom to be found
exposed in the open after dawn of day. It roams over the country in all
directions during night, and seeks the shelter of a forest about an hour
before the sun rises. It feeds heartily, but wastefully, tearing down
branches, half of which it leaves untouched; it strips the bark off
those trees which it selects as tasteful, but throws wilfully away a
considerable portion. Throughout the entire night the elephant is
feeding, and it is curious to observe how particular this animal is in
the choice of food. Most wild animals possess a certain amount of
botanical knowledge which guides them in their grazing; the only
exception is the camel, who would poison himself through sheer ignorance
and depraved appetite, but the elephant is most careful in its selection
of all that is suitable to its requirements. It is astonishing how few
of the forest trees are attractive to this animal. Some are tempting
from their foliage, others from their bark (vide the powerfully
astringent Catechu), some from the succulent roots, and several
varieties from the wood, which is eaten like the sugar-cane. There is
one kind of tree the wood of which alone is eaten after the rind has
been carefully stripped off.

The elephant, being in its wild state a nocturnal animal, must be able
to distinguish the various qualities of trees by the senses of smell and
touch, as in the darkness of a forest during night it would be
impossible to distinguish the leaves. There are few creatures who
possess so delicate a sense of smell; wild elephants will wind an enemy
at a distance of a thousand yards, or even more, should the breeze be
favourable. The nerves of the trunk are peculiarly sensitive, and
although the skin is thick, the smallest substance can be discovered,
and picked up by the tiny proboscis at the extremity.

A wound upon any portion of the trunk must occasion intense pain, and
the animal instinctively coils the lower portion beneath its chest when
attacked by a tiger. This delicacy of nerve renders the elephant
exceedingly timid after being wounded, and it is a common and
regrettable occurrence that an elephant which has been an excellent
shikar animal before it has been injured, becomes useless to face a
tiger after it has been badly clawed. I cannot understand the
carelessness of an owner who thus permits a good elephant to work
unprotected. In ancient days the elephants were armoured for warlike
purposes to protect them from spears and javelins, and nothing can be
easier than to arrange an elastic protective hood, which would
effectually safeguard the trunk and head from the attack of any animal.

I had an excellent hood arranged for a large tusker which was lent to me
by the Commissariat. The first layer of material was the soft but thick
buff leather of sambur deer. This entirely covered the head, and was
laced beneath the throat; at the same time it was secured by a broad
leather strap and buckle around the neck. A covering for about three
feet from the base of the trunk descended from the face and was also
secured by lacing. The lower portion of the trunk was left unprotected,
as the animal would immediately guard against danger by curling it up
when attacked. Upon this groundwork of buff leather I had plates of
thick and hard buffalo hide, tanned, overlapping like slates upon a
roof. This armour was proof against either teeth or claws, as neither
could hold upon the slippery and yielding hard surface of the leather
tiles; at the same time the elephant could move its trunk with ease. Two
circular apertures were cut out for the eyes, about six inches in
diameter.

An elephant, if well trained, would be sufficiently sagacious to
appreciate this protection should it find itself unharmed after a home
charge by a tiger or other dangerous beast; and such a quality of armour
would add immensely to its confidence and steadiness.

Although the elephant is of enormous strength it is more or less a
delicate animal, and is subject to a variety of ailments. A common
disease is a swelling in the throat, which in bad cases prevents it from
feeding. Another complaint resembles gout in the legs, which swell to a
distressing size, and give exquisite pain, especially when touched. This
attack is frequently occasioned by allowing elephants, after a long
march under a hot sun, to wade belly-deep in cool water in order to
graze upon the aquatic vegetation.

Few animals suffer more from the sun's rays than the elephant, whose
nature prompts it to seek the deepest shade. Its dark colour and immense
surface attract an amount of heat which becomes almost insupportable to
the unfortunate creature when forced to carry a heavy load during the
hot season in India. Even without a greater weight than its rider, the
elephant exhibits signs of distress when marching after 9 a.m. At such
times it is disagreeable, as the animal has a peculiar habit of sucking
water through the trunk from a supply contained within the stomach, and
this it syringes with great force between its fore legs, and against its
flanks to cool its sides with the ejected spray. The rider receives a
portion of the fluid in his face, and as the action is repeated every
five minutes, or less, the operation is annoying.

It is a curious peculiarity in the elephant that it is enabled to suck
up water at discretion simply by doubling the trunk far down the throat,
and the fluid thus procured has no disagreeable smell, although taken
direct from the creature's stomach. In every way the elephant is
superior to most animals in the freedom from any unpleasant odour. Its
skin is sweet, and the hand retains no smell whatever, although you may
have caressed the trunk or any other portion of the body. It is well
known that a horse is exceedingly strong in odour, and that nothing is
more objectionable than the close proximity of a stable, or even of a
large number of horses picqueted in the open,--I have frequently been
camped where fifty or sixty elephants were for several days in the same
position within a hundred yards of the tents, and still there was no
offensive scent.

The food of an elephant is always fresh and clean, and the digestive
functions are extremely rapid. The mastication is a rough system of
grinding, and the single stomach and exceedingly short intestines
simplify the process of assimilation. The rapidity of the food passage
necessitates a consumption of a large amount, and no less than six
hundred pounds of fodder is the proper daily allowance for an elephant.

There have been frequent discussions upon the important subject of
elephant-feeding. Mr. G. P. Sanderson, the superintendent of the keddah
department in Assam, has declared against the necessity of allowing a
ration of grain in addition to the usual fodder. This must naturally
depend upon the quality of the green food. If the locality abounds in
plantains, the stems of those plants are eagerly devoured, and every
portion except the outside rind is nourishing. Even then the waste is
excessive should the stems be heedlessly thrown down before the animal.
It will immediately proceed to strip long fibrous ribbons from the stem
by placing one foot upon the extremity, and then tearing off the
alternate layers like the skin of an onion. These it converts into
playthings, throwing them over its back and neck until it is dressed in
dangling necklaces, which by degrees, after serving as toys, are
ultimately devoured. The proper method of feeding an elephant with
plantains where an allowance of rice is added, is by splitting the
entire stem through the centre, and then cutting it into transverse
sections about two feet in length. As each layer is detached, it
resembles a delicately coloured trough, nearly white; this is doubled up
in the centre and it at once forms a hollow tube, similar to a very
thick drain tile. A handful of rice is placed within, and it is secured
by tying with a fibrous strip from the plantain stem. A large pile of
these neat packages is prepared for every elephant, and, when ready, the
mahout sits by the heap and hands the parcels one by one to the
ever-expectant trunk.

The delicacy of an elephant's palate is extraordinary, and the whims of
the creature are absurd in the selection or rejection of morsels which
it prefers or dislikes. I once saw a peculiar instance of this in an
elephant that belonged to the police at Dhubri on the Brahmaputra. This
animal had a large allowance of rice, therefore about three-quarters of
a pound were placed within each tube of plantain stem. A lady offered
the elephant, when being fed, a very small sweet biscuit, about an inch
and a half in diameter. This was accepted in the trunk, but almost
immediately rejected and thrown upon the ground. The mahout, fearing
that his elephant had behaved rudely in thus refusing a present from a
lady's hand, picked up the biscuit and inserted it in the next parcel of
rice and plantain stem. This was placed within the elephant's mouth. At
the first crunch the animal showed evident signs of disgust, and at once
spat out the whole of the contents. There lay a complete ruin of the
neat package, which had been burst by the power of the great jaws; but
among the scattered rice that had been ejected we perceived the biscuit
which had caused the second instance of bad behaviour. So utterly
disgusted was the elephant with this tiny foreign substance that it
endeavoured to cleanse its mouth from every grain of rice, as though
polluted by the contact, and for several minutes it continued to insert
its trunk and rake out each atom from its tongue and throat.

The adaptation of the trunk to many purposes is very interesting. I had
an elephant who would eat every particle of rice in a round bamboo
basket by sucking it up the trunk and then blowing it into its mouth.
The basket was close-grained and smooth inside, but although brimful at
the commencement of operations, it was emptied by the elephant as though
it had been cleansed with a dry sponge.

A distinct rule for feeding elephants cannot be laid down without
exceptions rendered necessary by peculiarities of localities and the
amount of hard work required from the animal. If the elephant is simply
turned out to grass for a season, it will thrive upon such natural
herbage as bamboos, the foliage of the banyan, peepul, and other
varieties of the Ficus family; but if it is expected to travel and
perform good work, it is usual in the Commissariat department to allow
each elephant seven and a half seers of flour, equal to 15 lbs.
avoirdupois. In addition to this, 600 lbs. of green fodder are given,
and about 1 lb. of ghee (buffalo butter), with salt and jaggery (native
sugar). During a jungle expedition I have always doubled the allowance
of flour to 30 lbs. daily for each animal. This is made into large flat
cakes like Scotch "scones," weighing 2 lbs. each. The elephants are fed
at about an hour before sunset, and then taken to drink water before
actual night. Cleanliness is indispensable to the good health and
condition of the elephant. It should bathe daily, and the entire body
should be well scoured with a piece of brick or a soft quality of
sandstone. This operation is much enjoyed, and the huge animal, obeying
the command, lies down upon its side and accommodates its carcase to the
scrubbing process by adapting its position to the requirements of the
operator. It will frequently bury its head completely beneath the water,
and merely protrude the extremity of its trunk to breathe above the
surface. The coolie is most particular in scrubbing every portion of the
animal, after which it will usually stand within the tank or river and
shower volumes of water from its trunk over its back and flanks. When
well washed, it appears a thoroughly clean black mass, but in a few
minutes it proceeds to destroy its personal beauty by throwing clouds of
dust upon its back, which, adhering to the moisture occasioned by its
recent bath, converts the late clean animal into a brown mound of earth.

There is no quadruped not absolutely amphibious that is so thoroughly at
home in the water as the elephant. In a wild state it will swim the
largest rivers, and it delights in morasses, where it rolls in the deep
mud like a pig or buffalo, and thus coats its hide with a covering of
slime, which protects it from the attacks of flies and the worry of
mosquitoes. When in a domestic state, the elephant is shy of trusting
itself upon unsound earth or quicksands, as it appears to have lost the
confidence resulting from an independent freedom among the jungles, and
marshy valleys teeming with aquatic vegetation. It will also refuse to
cross a bridge unless of solid masonry, and it is curious to observe the
extreme care with which it sounds the structure, either by striking with
the coiled extremity of the trunk or by experimenting with the pressure
of one foot, before it ventures to trust its whole weight upon the
suspected floor.

It is difficult to describe the limit of an elephant's swimming powers;
this must depend upon many circumstances, whether it is following the
stream or otherwise, but the animal can remain afloat for several hours
without undue fatigue. The displacement of an elephant's carcase is less
than the weight of water, although it swims so deeply immersed that it
would appear to float with difficulty. An elephant shot dead within the
water will float immediately, with a considerable portion of one flank
raised so high above the surface that several men could be supported, as
though upon a raft. The body of a hippopotamus will sink like a stone,
and will not reappear upon the surface for about two hours, until the
gas has to a certain degree distended the carcase: thus the hippopotamus
is of a denser and heavier material than the elephant, although it is an
aquatic animal.

When tame elephants cross a river they are conducted by their drivers,
who stand upon their backs, either balancing themselves without
assistance, or supported by holding a cord attached to the animal's
neck. It is very interesting to watch the passage of a large river by a
herd of these creatures, who to a stranger's eye would appear to be in
danger of drowning, although in reality they are merely gamboling in the
element which is their delight. I have seen them cross the Brahmaputra
when the channel was about a mile in width. Forty elephants scrambled
down the precipitous bank of alluvial deposit and river sand: this,
although about thirty-five feet high, crumbled at once beneath the
fore-foot of the leading elephant, and many tons detached from the
surface quickly formed a steep incline. Squatting upon its
hind-quarters, and tucking its hinder knees beneath its belly, while it
supported its head upon its trunk and outstretched fore legs, it slid
and scrambled to the bottom, accompanied by an avalanche of earth and
dust, thus forming a good track for the following herd.

It is surprising to see in how few minutes a large herd of elephants
descending a steep place will form a road. I have frequently seen them
break down an alluvial cliff in the manner described, where at first
sight I should have thought it impossible for an elephant to descend.
Once within the river the fun began in earnest. After a march in the hot
sun, it was delightful to bathe in the deep stream of the Brahmaputra,
and the mighty forms splashed and disported themselves, sometimes
totally submerged, with the drivers standing ankle-deep upon their
hidden backs, which gave them the appearance of walking upon the
surface. A tip of the trunk was always above water, and occasionally the
animal would protrude the entire head, but only to plunge once more
beneath the stream. In this way, swimming at great speed, and at the
same time playing along their voyage, the herd crossed the broad river,
and we saw their dusky forms glittering in the sunlight as they rose
wetted from their bath, and waded majestically along the shallows to
reach an island; from which they again started upon a similar journey to
cross another channel of the river.

The first impression of a stranger when observing the conduct of a
mahout or driver is sympathy for the animal, which is governed through
the severe authority of the iron spike. This instrument is about twenty
inches long, and resembles somewhat an old-fashioned boat-hook, being a
sharp spike at the extremity beyond the keen-pointed hook; it can thus
be used either to drive the elephant forward by digging the point into
its head, or to pull it back by hooking on to the tender base of the
ears. These driving-hooks weigh from about 4 to 6 lbs., and are
formidable weapons; some are exceedingly ancient, and have been
preserved for a couple of centuries or more, such specimens being highly
artistic, and first-rate examples of the blacksmith's work. Although we
may commence our experience by pitying the animal that is subjected to
such harsh treatment, we quickly discover that without the hook the
elephant is like the donkey without the stick. The fact of his knowing
that you possess the power, or propeller, is sufficient to ensure
comparative obedience, but it would be impossible to direct the
movements of an elephant by simple kindness without the power to inflict
punishment. This fact alone will prove that the elephant does not serve
man through affection, but that it is compelled through fear. It is
curious to witness the absurd subjection of this mighty animal even by a
child. I have frequently seen a small boy threaten a large elephant with
a stick, and the animal has at once winced; and, curling the trunk
between the legs, it has closed its eyes and exhibited every symptom of
extreme terror when struck repeatedly upon the trunk and face. The male
is generally more uncertain than the female. It would at first sight
appear that for shooting purposes the bull elephant would be preferred
for its greater strength and courage. There can be no doubt that a pair
of long tusks is an important protection, and not only forms a defence
against the attack of a tiger or other animal, but is valuable for
offensive purposes; yet, notwithstanding this advantage, the female is
generally preferred to the male, as being more docile and obedient.

The males differ in character, but they are mostly uncertain in temper
during a period varying from two to four months every year. At such
occurrences of disturbance the animal requires careful treatment, and
the chains which shackle the fore legs should be of undoubted quality.
Some elephants remain passive throughout the year, while others appear
to be thoroughly demented, and, although at other seasons harmless,
would, when "must," destroy their own attendant and wreak the direst
mischief. At such a crisis the mahout must always be held responsible
for accidents, as the animal, if properly watched and restrained, would
be incapable of active movements, and would of course be comparatively
harmless. Upon many occasions, through the neglect of the attendant, an
elephant has been left unchained, or perhaps secured with an old chain
that has been nearly worn through a link; the escape of the animal under
such circumstances has led to frightful casualties, usually commencing
with the destruction of the mahout, who may have attempted a recapture.
The approach of the "must" period is immediately perceived by a peculiar
exudation of an oily nature from a small duct upon either temple; this
somewhat resembles coal-tar in consistence, and it occupies an area of
about four inches square upon the surface of the skin. There is a
decided odour in this secretion somewhat similar to the same exudation
from the neck of the male camel.

I have known male elephants which were remarkably docile throughout all
seasons, but even these had to be specially regarded during the period
of "must," as there was no means of foretelling a sudden and unexpected
outbreak of temper. Many males are at all times fretful, and these
expend their ill-nature in various ways; if chained, they kick up the
earth, and scatter the dust in all directions; they are never quiet for
one moment throughout the day, but continue to swing their heads to and
fro, and prick forward their ears, exhibiting a restlessness of spirit
that is a sufficient warning to any stranger. Such elephants should
always be approached with caution, and never directly in front, but at
the side.

An elephant is frequently treacherous, and if the person should stand
unheedingly before it, a sudden slap with the trunk might be the
consequence. For the same reason, it would be dangerous to approach the
heels of such an animal, as a kick from an elephant is rather an
extensive movement, and it is extraordinary that so colossal a limb as
the hind leg can be projected with such velocity, equalling that of a
small pony.

Discussions have frequently arisen concerning the maximum speed of an
elephant; this is difficult to decide exactly, as there can be no
question that the animal in a wild state will exert a greater speed than
can be obtained from it when domesticated. The African variety is
decidedly faster than the Asiatic; the legs being longer, the stride is
in proportion; and as the habits of the African lead it to wander over
large tracts of open country instead of confining its rambles to
secluded forests, this peculiarity would naturally render the animal
more active, and tend to accelerate its movements. I consider that the
African elephant is capable of a speed of fifteen miles an hour, which
it could keep up for two or three hundred yards, after which it would
travel at about ten miles an hour, and actually accomplish the distance
within that period. The Asiatic elephant might likewise attain a speed
of fifteen miles for perhaps a couple

of hundred yards, but it would not travel far at a greater pace than
eight miles an hour, and it would reduce that pace to six after the
first five miles.

The proof of an elephant's power of great speed for a short distance is
seldom seen except in cases where the animal is infuriated, and gives
chase to some unfortunate victim, who seldom escapes his fate by flight.
For a short burst of fifty or one hundred yards an elephant might
occasionally attain a pace exceeding fifteen miles an hour, as I have
frequently, when among rough ground, experienced a difficulty in
escaping when on horseback; and in my young days, when a good runner, I
have been almost caught when racing along a level plain as smooth as a
lawn with a savage elephant in full pursuit. An active man upon good
ground can run for a short distance at the rate of eighteen miles an
hour; this should clear him from the attack of most elephants; but
unfortunately the good ground is scarce, and the elephant is generally
discovered in a position peculiarly favourable to itself, where the
roughness of the surface and the tangled herbage render it impossible
for a man to run at full speed without falling.

We have recently seen a distressing example in the death of the lamented
Mr. Ingram in Somaliland, who, although well mounted, was overtaken by
an infuriated wild elephant and killed. This was a female, and it
appears that Mr. Ingram, having followed her on horseback, had fired
repeatedly with a rifle only .450. The animal charged, and owing to the
impediments of the ground, which was covered with prickly aloes, the
horse could not escape, and Mr. Ingram was swept off the saddle and
impaled upon the elephant's tusks.

The African differs from the Asiatic in the formation of ivory, the
tusks of the former being both thicker and heavier; the females also
possess tusks, whereas those of the Asiatic variety have merely embryo
tusks, which do not project more than two or three inches beyond the
lips. I had a tusk of an African elephant that weighed 149 lbs. I have
seen in Khartoum a pair that weighed 300 lbs., and I saw a single tusk
of 172 lbs. In 1874 a tusk was sold at the ivory sale in London that
weighed 188 lbs. These specimens are exceptions to the general rule, as
the average weight in a full-grown African male would be about 140 lbs.
the pair, or 75 lbs. for one tusk and 65 lbs. for the fellow, which is
specially employed for digging.

The African variety is an industrious digger, as it feeds upon the
succulent roots of many trees, especially those of the mimosa family.
The right tusk is generally used in these operations more than the left;
accordingly it is lighter from continual wear, and it is known by the
Arabs as the "hadam" or servant. As the African elephant is a root-eater
it is far more destructive than the Asiatic. It is astonishing to
observe the waste of trees that are upturned by a large herd of these
animals, sometimes out of sheer wantonness, during their passage through
a forest. The dense tops of mimosas are a great attraction, and there
can be no doubt that elephants work collectively to dig out and to
overthrow the trees that would be too large for the strength of a single
animal. I have seen trees between two and three feet in diameter that
have been felled for the sake of the roots and tender heads; these have
shown unmistakable signs of an attack by several elephants, as the
ground has been ploughed by tusks of different sizes to tear up the long
straggling roots which were near the surface, and the deep marks of feet
around the centre of operations, of various diameters, have proved the
co-operation of members of the herd.

I once saw an elephant strike a large timber tree with its forehead to
shake down the fruit. This was a peculiar example of the immense power
that can be exerted when required. We were waiting near the margin of
the White Nile, about half an hour before sunset, expecting the arrival
of waterbuck, when a rumbling sound and a suppressed roar in the jungle
were accompanied by the breaking of a branch, which denoted the approach
of elephants. Presently they emerged from the forest in several
directions, and one, which appeared to be the largest I had ever seen,
advanced to within 120 yards of our position without perceiving us, as
we were concealed behind a bush upon some rising ground close to the
river's bank. This elephant had enormous tusks, but as we had only
small-bore rifles, I was contented to watch, without disturbing the
magnificent animal before me.

There was a very large and lofty tree quite three feet in diameter; upon
the upper branches grew the much-loved fruit, similar in appearance to
good-sized dates, and equally sweet and aromatic (Balanites Egyptiaca).
Elephants will travel great distances to arrive at a forest where such
fruit is produced in quantity, and they appear to know the season when
the crop will be thoroughly ripe. Upon this occasion, the elephant,
having picked up the single fruits which lay scattered upon the ground,
presently looked up, and being satisfied with the appearance of the
higher boughs, he determined to shake down a plentiful supply. Retiring
for a few feet, he deliberately rammed his forehead against the stem,
with such force as to shake the tree from top to bottom, causing a most
successful shower of the coveted fruit, which he immediately commenced
to eat.

Commander R. N. J. Baker was my companion, and we agreed that any person
who might have taken refuge in the branches of that large tree must have
held on exceedingly tight to have avoided a fall, so severe was the
concussion.

When it is considered that a large bull elephant weighs between six and
seven tons, which weight is set in movement by the muscular exertion of
the animal, there is at once an explanation of the force against a tree,
which, although large, would hardly exceed that weight.

The memory of elephants must be peculiarly keen, as they remember the
seasons for visiting certain districts where some particular food is
produced in attractive quantities. In the southern district of Ceylon,
between Yalle river and the sea-coast, there are great numbers of the
Bael tree, the fruit of which resembles a large cricket-ball. The shell
is hard, and when ripe it becomes brown, and can only be broken by a
sharp blow with some hard substance. The contents are highly aromatic,
consisting of a brownish substance exceedingly sweet, and mixed with
small seeds resembling those inside a pear. There is a strong flavour of
medlar in this fruit, and it is much esteemed for medicinal properties,
especially in cases of diarrhoea. Although elephants refuse the Bael
fruit unless quite ripe, they will invariably arrive in great numbers
during the favourable season in the southern districts of Ceylon. The
question arises, "How can an animal remember the month without an
almanack?"

There is no doubt that animals possess in many instances a far greater
degree of reason than is generally admitted, with which the exercise of
memory is so closely allied that it is difficult to separate or define
the attributes. An elephant will remember those who have shown kindness,
perhaps for a longer period than it will others who may have offended.
After seven months' absence in England, an elephant that I had from the
Commissariat on my previous visit to India recognised me at once upon my
return. I had been in the habit of feeding this animal with sugar-canes
and other choice food almost daily during several months' companionship
in the jungle; this was not forgotten, and "cupboard love" was harboured
in its memory with the expectation that the feeding would be repeated.

In the same manner, but perhaps in a lesser degree, the elephant will
remember those whom it dislikes, and during the season of "must" it
would be exceedingly dangerous for such persons to venture within reach
of the animal's trunk. Stories are numerous concerning the animosity of
elephants against their mahouts or other attendants who have cruelly
treated them; but, on the other hand, the animals frequently exhibit a
wild ferocity towards those who have been innocent of harshness. As
characters vary among human beings, and some persons when intoxicated
become suddenly brutal, although when sober they have been mild in
reputation, so also we find conflicting natures among elephants, and the
insane excitement of the "must" period varies in intensity in different
animals.

There was a well-known elephant some years ago in the Balaghat district
of the Central Provinces which became historical through the
extraordinary malignity of its disposition. Having escaped from the
fetters, it killed the mahout, and at once made off towards the forests.
It is a curious example of nature that creatures (ferae naturae) have a
tendency to return to their original state of savagedom when the
opportunity is offered. If an elephant is seized with a panic when upon
open ground, it will rush for the nearest jungle, probably with the
intention of concealment. The animal in question returned to its wild
state directly it had escaped from confinement, but the domestication of
many years appears to have sharpened its intellect, and to have
exaggerated its powers for mischief and cunning. It became the scourge,
not only of the immediate neighbourhood, but of a considerable portion
of a district which included an area of a hundred miles in length by
forty or fifty in width.

No village was safe from the attack of this infuriated beast. It would
travel great distances, and appear at unexpected intervals, suddenly
presenting itself to the horrified villagers, who fled in all
directions, leaving their homes and their supplies of grain to be
demolished by the omnipotent intruder, who tore down their dwellings,
ransacked their stores of corn, and killed any unfortunate person who
came within its reach.

There was a cruel love of homicide in this animal that has rarely been
recorded. Not only would it attack villages in pursuit of forage, but it
was particularly addicted to the destruction of the lofty
watching-places in the fields, occupied nightly by the villagers to
scare wild animals from their crops. These watch-houses are generally
constructed upon strong poles secured by cross-pieces, on the top of
which, about sixteen feet from the ground, is a small hut upon a
platform. This is thatched to protect the occupant from the heavy dew or
rain. From such elevated posts the watchers yell and scream throughout
the night to frighten the wild beasts. To attack and tear down such
posts was the delight of this bloodthirsty elephant. Instead of being
scared by the shouts of the inmates, it was attracted by their cries,
and, unseen in the dark, it was upon them almost before they were aware
of its presence. The strong posts upon which the constructions had been
raised offered no resistance to the attack, and the miserable watchers
found themselves hurled to the ground together with the ruins of their
upturned shelter. In another moment they were either caught and stamped
to death, or chased through the darkness by the pursuing elephant, and
when captured they were torn limb from limb, as the brute exhibited a
cruel satisfaction in placing one foot upon the victim, and then tearing
with its trunk an arm, a leg, or the head from the mangled body.

In this manner the elephant killed upwards of twenty people throughout
the district, and it became absolutely necessary, if possible, to
destroy it.

This was at last effected by Colonel Bloomfield and a friend, who
determined at all hazards to hunt it down by following through the
jungles, guided by the reports of the natives, who were on the lookout
in all directions. The animal showed peculiar cunning, as it never
remained in the same place, but travelled a considerable distance
immediately after the committal of some atrocity, and concealed itself
within the jungles until prompted to another raid in some new direction.
I am indebted to Colonel Bloomfield for an interesting description of
the manner in which, after many days of great fatigue and patience, he
at length succeeded, with the assistance of native trackers, in
discovering this formidable opponent, asleep within a dense mass of
thorns and grass in the heart of an extensive jungle. The elephant awoke
before they could distinctly see its form, owing to the extreme
thickness of the covert, but the fight commenced. There was a
considerable difference between the attack upon defenceless villagers,
who fled before it in hopeless panic, and a stand-up fight with two
experienced European shikaris armed with the best rifles; the terror of
the district quickly showed its appreciation of discretion, and, badly
wounded, it retreated through the forest, well followed by the
determined hunters. Again and again it was overtaken, and a shot was
taken whenever the dense jungle afforded an opportunity. At length,
maddened by pursuit and wounds, it turned to charge, thereby exposing
itself in an open place, and both bullets crashed into its brain, the
shot from Colonel Bloomfield's rifle passing completely through its
head.

It would be impossible to determine whether such an elephant could have
been subdued and re-domesticated had its capture been effected. There
are many cases on record where a "must" elephant has committed grievous
depredations, after killing those who were its ordinary attendants, but
when re-captured, the temporary excitement has passed away, and the
animal has become as harmless as it was before the period of insanity.
Mr. G. P. Sanderson, the superintendent of the Government keddahs in
Assam, gives a vivid description of an elephant that escaped after
killing its mahout and several villagers in the neighbourhood. This
animal, like Colonel Bloomfield's elephant, already described, became
the terror of the district, and destroyed many villagers, until it was
decided by the authorities to attempt its destruction.

Mr. Sanderson was of opinion that it was too valuable to be heedlessly
sacrificed; he therefore determined to capture it alive, if possible,
through the aid of certain clever elephants belonging to the keddah
establishment.

The police of the district were ordered to obtain the necessary
information, and the malefactor was reported after a few days to have
destroyed another village, where it remained, devouring the rice and
grain in the absence of the panic-stricken villagers.

No time was lost in repairing to the spot with three highly-trained
elephants, two of which were females; the third was a well-known
fighting male, a tusker named Moota Gutche, who was usually employed to
dominate the obstreperous wild elephants when refractory in the keddah
enclosures. The necessary ropes and chains were prepared, and the small
but experienced party started, Mr. Sanderson being armed only with a
long spear, and riding on the pad, well girthed upon the back of Moota
Gutche.

A short hour's march brought them in sight of a ruined village on a
level plain, which skirted a dense forest. When within a quarter of a
mile, a large male elephant was discovered restlessly walking to and fro
as though keeping guard over the ruins he had made. This was the culprit
taken in the act.

Leaving the two females in the rear, with instructions to follow upon a
given signal, Mr. Sanderson on Moota Gutche advanced slowly to the
encounter. The rogue elephant did not appear to notice them until within
about 200 yards; it then suddenly halted, and turning round, it faced
them as though in astonishment at being disturbed. This attitude did not
last very long, as Moota Gutche still advanced until within ninety or a
hundred paces. The elephants now faced each other, and Moota Gutche
began to lower his head when he observed his antagonist backing a few
paces, which he well knew was the customary preparation for a charge.
"Reculez pour mieux sauter" was well exemplified when in another moment
the vagrant elephant dashed forward at great speed to the attack,
trumpeting and screaming with mad fury. In the meantime Moota Gutche
coolly advanced at a moderate pace. The shock of the encounter was
tremendous. The spear flew out of the rider's hands with the collision,
but Moota Gutche was a trained fighter, and having lowered his head,
which had for the moment exposed his mahout, he quickly caught his
opponent under the throat with its neck between his tusks, and then
bearing upwards, he forced the head of his adversary high in the air;
now driving forwards with all his strength, he hurled the other
backwards, and with a dexterous twist he threw it upon its side and
pinned it to the ground. In an instant Mr. Sanderson slipped off and
secured the hind legs with a strong rope. The two females quickly
arrived, and within a few minutes the late terror of the neighbourhood
was helplessly fettered, and was led captive between the females towards
the camp from which it had escaped, assisted, when obstreperous, by the
tusks of Moota Gutche applied behind.

This elephant completely recovered from its temporary madness, and
became a useful animal, affording a striking example of the passing
insanity of the male passion, and the power of careful management in
subduing a brute of such stupendous force.

After this incident Moota Gutche, with about forty of the keddah
elephants, was kindly lent to me by Mr. Sanderson during a shooting
excursion of twenty-five days upon the "churs" or islands of the
Brahmaputra river south of Dhubri. In India the tiger is so commonly
associated with the elephant that in describing one it is impossible to
avoid a connection with the other.

Moota Gutche was a peculiar character, not altogether amiable, but it
was as well to have him upon your own side. During the trip my friend
Sanderson was ill with fever, and could not accompany me. I was
therefore at the disadvantage of being the only gun in a long line of
elephants, which would on ordinary occasions have been manned by at
least four guns. At first I imagined that my trip would be a failure, as
I knew a mere nothing of the language, and the elephants and their
mahouts were alike strangers to me, but I soon discovered that their
excellent training as keddah servants constantly employed in the capture
of wild elephants under their indefatigable superintendent, Mr.
Sanderson, rendered them capable almost instinctively of understanding
all my ways, and we became excellent friends, both man and beast.

I arranged my long line of elephants according to their paces and
dispositions, and each day they preserved the same positions, so that
every mahout knew his place, and the elephants were accustomed to the
animals upon the right and left. In the centre were the slowest, and
upon either flank were the fastest elephants, while two exceedingly
speedy animals, with intelligent mahouts, invariably acted as scouts,
generally a quarter of a mile ahead on either flank.

My own elephant was accompanied on one side by Moota Gutche, on the
other by a rough but dependable character whose name I have forgotten. I
kept these always with me, as they were useful in the event of a tiger
that would not bolt from the dense wild-rose thickets, in which case our
three elephants could push him out.

This arrangement was perfect, and after a few days' experience our line
worked with the precision of well-drilled cavalry; sometimes, with extra
elephants, I had as many as fifty in the field. The result of this
discipline was that no tiger or leopard ever escaped if once on foot;
although hunted in some instances for hours, the animal was invariably
killed. A remarkable instance of this occurred at the large island of
Bargh Chur, which includes several thousand acres, the greater portion
being covered with enormous grass and dense thickets of tamarisk, which,
in the hot season, is the cool and loved resort of tigers. There were
also extensive jungles in swampy portions of the island, so intermixed
with reeds and marsh grass of twelve or fourteen feet high, that it was
difficult to penetrate, even upon an elephant.

I was out at the usual early hour, shortly after sunrise, the shikaris
having returned to camp with the news that none of the bullocks tied up
for baits during the preceding night had been killed; it therefore
remained to try our fortune by simply beating the high grass jungle in
line, on speculation, and in the same manner to drive the occasional
dense coverts of feathery tamarisk.

We had proceeded with a line of about five-and-thirty elephants, well
extended ten yards apart, and in this manner we had advanced about a
mile, when our attention was attracted by a native calling to us from a
large ant-hill which enabled him to be distinguished above the grass. We
immediately rode towards him, and were informed that a tiger had killed
his cow the night before, and had dragged the body into jungle so dense
that he had been afraid to follow. This was good news; we therefore took
the man upon an elephant as our guide towards the reported spot.

The elephants continued to advance in line, occasionally disturbing wild
pigs and hog deer, which existed in great numbers, but could hardly have
been shot even had I wished, as the grass was so thick and long that the
animals could not be seen; there were only signs of their disturbance by
the sudden rush and the waving of the grass just in front of the
advancing elephants, who were thus kept in continual excitement.

In about twenty minutes we emerged from the high grass upon a great
extent of highly cultivated land, where the sandy loam had been reduced
to the fine surface of a well-kept garden. Bordering upon this open
country was an extensive jungle composed of trees averaging about a foot
in diameter, but completely wedged together among impenetrable reeds
fully eighteen feet in length, and nearly an inch in thickness, in
addition to a network of various tough creepers, resulting from a rich
soil that was a morass during the rainy season. Although the reeds
appeared tolerably dry, they would not burn, as there were signs among
some half-scorched places where attempts had been recently made to fire
the jungle.

Our guide soon pointed to the spot where his cow had been dragged by the
tiger into this formidable covert. There was no mistake about the marks,
and the immense tracks in the soft ground proved the size and sex of the
destroyer.

Nobody questioned the fact of the tiger being at home, and the only
question was "how to beat him out." The jungle was quite a mile in
length without a break in its terrible density; it was about half a mile
in width, bounded upon one side by the cleared level ground in
cultivation, and on the other by the high grass jungle we had left, but
this had been partially scorched along the edge in the attempts to burn.

A good look-out would have spied any animal at a hundred and fifty yards
had it attempted to leave the jungle.

As the country was a dead level, it was difficult to forecast the
retreat of a tiger when driven from such a thicket, and it was a serious
question whether it would be possible to dislodge him.

Whenever you commence a drive, the first consideration should be, "If
the animal is there, where did it come from?"---as it will in all
probability attempt to retreat to that same locality. There was no
possibility of guessing the truth in such a country of dense grass, and
with numerous islands of the same character throughout this portion of
the Brahmaputra, but there was one advantage in the fact that one side
was secure, as the tiger would never break covert upon the cultivated
land; there remained the opposite side, which would require strict
watching, as he would probably endeavour to slink away through the high
grass to some distant and favourite retreat.

I therefore determined to take my stand at the end of the thick jungle
which we had passed upon arrival, at the corner where it joined the
parched grass that had been fire-scorched, and near the spot where the
cow had been dragged in. I accordingly sent the elephants round to
commence the drive about two hundred yards distant, entering from the
cultivated side and driving towards me, as I concluded the tiger in such
massive jungle would not be far from the dead body. At the same time, I
sent two scouting elephants to occupy positions outside the jungle on
the high grass side, within sight of myself; I being posted on my
elephant at the corner, so that I commanded two views---the end, and the
grass side.

My signal, a loud whistle, having been given, the line of elephants
advanced towards my position. The crashing of so many huge beasts
through the dense crisp herbage sounded in the distance like a strong
wind, varied now and then by the tearing crunch as some opposing
branches were torn down to clear the way.

I was mounted upon a female elephant, a good creature named Nielmonne,
who was reputed to be staunch, but as the line of beaters approached
nearer, and the varied sounds increased in intensity, she became very
nervous and restless, starting should a small deer dart out of the
jungle, and evidently expecting momentarily the appearance of the enemy.
There are very few elephants that will remain unmoved when awaiting the
advance of a line of beaters, whether they may be of their own species
or human beings. On this occasion the rushing sound of the yielding
jungle, which was so thick as to test the elephants' powers in clearing
a passage through it, was presently varied by a sharp trumpet, then by a
low growl, followed by that peculiar noise emitted by elephants when
excited, resembling blows upon a tambourine or kettle-drum. This is a
sound that invariably is heard whenever an elephant detects the fresh
scent of a tiger; and Nielmonne, instead of standing quiet, became
doubly excited, as she evidently understood that the dreaded game was on
foot, and advancing before the line.

As I was posted at the sharp angle of the corner, I presently observed
several elephants emerge upon my left and right, as the line advanced
with wonderful regularity, and so close were the animals together that
it was most unlikely any tiger could have broken back.

My servant Michael was behind me in the howdah. He was a quiet man, who
thoroughly understood his work, and seldom spoke without being first
addressed. On this occasion he broke through the rule. "Nothing in this
beat, sahib," he exclaimed . . . . "Hold your tongue, Michael, till the
cover's beaten out. Haven't I often told you that you can't tell what's
in the jungle until the last corner is gone through?"

Nearly all the elephants were now out, and only about half a dozen
remained in the jungle, all still advancing in correct line, and perhaps
a dozen yards remaining of dense reeds and creepers forming the acute
angle at the extremity. They still came on. Two or three of the mahouts
shouted, "The tiger's behind, we must go back and take a longer beat."
Nothing remained now except six or seven yards of the sharp corner, and
the elephants marched forward, when a tremendous roar suddenly startled
them in all directions, and one of the largest tigers I have ever seen
sprang forward directly towards Nielmonne, who, I am ashamed to say,
spun round as though upon a pivot, and prevented me from taking a most
splendid shot. The next instant the tiger had bounded back with several
fierce roars, sending the line of elephants flying, and once more
securing safety in the almost impervious jungle from which he had been
driven.

This was a most successful drive, but a terrible failure, owing entirely
to the nervousness of my elephant. I never saw a worse jungle, and now
that the tiger had been moved, it would be doubly awkward to deal with
him, as he would either turn vicious and spring upon an elephant
unawares from so dense a covert, or slink from place to place as the
line advanced, but would never again face the open.

I looked at my watch; it was exactly half-past eight. The mahouts
suggested that we should not disturb him, but give him time to sleep,
and then beat for him in the afternoon. I did not believe in sleep after
he had been so rudely aroused by a long line of elephants, but I clearly
perceived that the mahouts did not enjoy the fun of beating in such
dreadful jungle, and this they presently confessed, and expressed a wish
to have me in the centre of the line, as there was no gun with the
elephants should the tiger attack.

I knew that I should be useless, as it would be impossible to see a foot
ahead in such dense bush, but to give them confidence I put my elephant
in line, and sent forward several scouting elephants to form a line
along a narrow footpath which cut the jungle at right angles about a
quarter of a mile distant.

Once more the line advanced, the elephants marching shoulder to
shoulder, and thus bearing down everything before them, as I determined
to take the jungle backwards and forwards in this close order lest the
wary tiger might crouch, and escape by lying close.

Several times the elephants sounded, and we knew that he must be close
at hand, but it was absolutely impossible to see anything beyond the
thick reedy mass, through which the line of elephants bored as through a
solid obstacle.

Three times with the greatest patience we worked the jungle in this
searching manner, when on the third advance I left the line, finding the
impossibility of seeing anything, and took up my position outside the
jungle on the cultivated land, exactly where the footpath was occupied
by the scout elephants at intervals, which intersected the line of
advance.

Presently there was a commotion among the elephants, two or three shrill
trumpets, then the kettle-drum, and for a moment I caught sight of a dim
shadowy figure stealing through some high reeds upon the border which
fringed the jungle. I immediately fired, although the elephant was so
unsteady that I could not be sure of the shot; also the object was so
indistinct, being concealed in the high reeds, that I should not have
observed it upon any other occasion than our rigid search. Immediately
afterwards, a shout from one of the mahouts upon a scouting elephant
informed us that the tiger had crossed the path and had gone forward,
having thus escaped from the beat!

Here was fresh work cut out! Up to this moment we had managed to keep
him within an area of a quarter of a mile in length, by half a mile in
width; he had now got into new ground, and was in about a three-quarter
mile length of the same unbeaten jungle.

There was nothing else to do but to pursue the same tactics, and we
patiently continued to beat forward and backward, again and again, but
without once sighting our lost game. It was half-past twelve, and the
sun was burning hot, the sky being cloudless. The elephants once more
emerged from the sultry jungle; they were blowing spray with their
trunks upon their flanks, from water sucked up from their stomachs; and
the mahouts were all down-hearted and in despair. "It's of no use," they
said, "he's gone straight away, who can tell where? When you fired,
perhaps you wounded him, or you missed him; at any rate, he's frightened
and gone clean off, we shall never see him again; the elephants are all
tired with the extreme heat, and we had better go to the river for a
bath."

I held a council of war, with the elephants in a circle around me. It is
of no use to oppose men when they are disgusted, you must always start a
new idea. I agreed with my men, but I suggested that as we were all hot,
and the elephants fatigued, the tiger must be in much the same state, as
we had kept him on the run since eight o'clock in the morning, I having
actually timed the hour "half-past eight" when he charged out of the
last corner. "Now," said I, "do you remember that yesterday evening I
killed a buck near some water in a narrow depression in the middle of
tamarisk jungle? I believe that is only a continuation of this horrible
thicket, and if the tiger is nearly played out, he would naturally make
for the water and the cool tamarisk. You form in line in the jungle
here, and give me a quarter of an hour's start, while I go ahead and
take up my position by that piece of water. You then come on, and if the
tiger is in the jungle, he will come forward towards the water, where I
shall meet him; if he's not there, we shall anyhow be on our direct
route, and close to our camp by the river."

This was immediately accepted, and leaving the elephants to form line, I
hurried forward on Nielmonne, keeping in the grass outside the edge of
the long jungle.

I had advanced about three-quarters of a mile, when the character of the
jungle changed to tamarisk, and I felt certain that I was near the spot
of yesterday. I accordingly ordered the mahout to turn into the thick
feathery foliage to the left, in search of the remembered water. There
was a slight descent to a long but narrow hollow about 50 or 60 yards
wide; this was filled with clear water for an unknown length.

I was just about to make a remark, when, instead of speaking, I gently
grasped the mahout by the head as I leaned over the howdah, and by this
signal stopped the elephant.

There was a lovely sight, which cheered my heart with that inexpressible
feeling of delight which is the reward for patience and hard work. About
120 yards distant on my left, the head and neck of a large tiger, clean
and beautiful, reposed above the surface, while the body was cooling,
concealed from view. Here was our friend enjoying his quiet bath, while
we had been pounding away up and down the jungles which he had left.

The mahout, although an excellent man, was much excited. "Fire at him,"
he whispered.

"It is too far to make certain," I replied in the same undertone.

"Your rifle will not miss him; fire, or you will lose him. He will see
us to a certainty and be off. If so, we shall never see him again,"
continued Fazil, the mahout.

"Hold your tongue," I whispered. "He can't see us, the sun is at our
back, and is shining in his eyes --- see how green they are."

At this moment of suspense the tiger quietly rose from his bath, and sat
up on end like a dog. I never saw such a sight. His head was beautiful,
and the eyes shone like two green electric lights, as the sun's rays
reflected from them, but his huge body was dripping with muddy water, as
he had been reclining upon the alluvial bottom.

"Now's the time," whispered the over-eager mahout. "You can kill him to
a certainty. Fire, or he'll be gone in another moment."

"Keep quiet, you fool, and don't move till I tell you." For quite a
minute the tiger sat up in the same position; at last, as though
satisfied that he was in safety and seclusion, he once more lay down
with only the head and neck exposed above the surface.

"Back the elephant gently, but do not turn round," I whispered.
Immediately Nielmonne backed through the feathery tamarisk without the
slightest sound, and we found ourselves outside the jungle. We could
breathe freely.

"Go on now, quite gently, till I press your head; then turn to the
right, descending through the tamarisk, till I again touch your puggery"
(turban).

I counted the elephant's paces as she moved softly parallel with the
jungle, until I felt sure of my distance. A slight pressure upon the
mahout's head, and Nielmonne turned to the right. The waving plumes of
the dark-green tamarisk divided as we gently moved forward, and in
another moment we stopped. There was the tiger in the same position,
exactly facing me, but now about 75 paces distant.

"Keep the elephant quite steady," I whispered; and, sitting down upon
the howdah seat, I took a rest with the rifle upon the front bar of the
gun-rack. A piece of tamarisk kept waving in the wind just in front of
the rifle, beyond my reach. The mahout leaned forward and gently bent it
down. Now, all was clear. The tiger's eyes were like green glass. The
elephant for a moment stood like stone. I touched the trigger.

There was no response to the loud report of 6 drams of powder from the
'577 rifle, no splash in the unbroken surface of the water. The tiger's
head was still there, but in a different attitude, one-half below the
surface, and only one cheek, and one large eye still glittering like an
emerald, above.

"Run in quick,"---and the order was instantly obeyed, as Nielmonne
splashed through the pool towards the silent body of the tiger. There
was not a movement of a muscle. I whistled loud, then looked at my
watch---on the stroke of 1 P.M. From 8.30 till that hour we had worked
up that tiger, and although there was no stirring incident connected
with him, I felt very satisfied with the result.

In a short time the elephants arrived, having heard the shot, followed
by my well-known whistle. Moota Gutche was the first to approach; and
upon observing the large bright eye of the tiger above water, he
concluded that it was still alive; he accordingly made a desperate
charge, and taking the body on his tusks, he sent it flying some yards
ahead; not content with this display of triumph, he followed it up, and
gave it a football-kick that lifted it clean out of the water. This
would have quickly ended in a war-dance upon the prostrate body, that
would have crushed it and destroyed the skin, had not the mahout, with
the iron driving-hook, bestowed some warning taps upon the crown of
Moota Gutche's head that recalled him to a calmer frame of mind. A rope
was soon made fast to the tiger's neck, and Moota Gutche hauled it upon
dry ground, where it was washed as well as possible, and well
scrutinized for a bullet-hole.

There was no hole whatever in that tiger. The bullet having entered the
nostril, broken the neck, and run along the body, the animal
consequently had never moved. The first shot, when obscured in thick
jungle, had probably deflected from the interposing reeds---at all
events it missed. This tiger, when laid out straight, but without being
pulled to increase its length, measured exactly 9 feet 8 inches from
nose to tail.



CHAPTER III

THE ELEPHANT (continued)

The foregoing chapter is sufficient to explain the ferocity of the male
elephant at certain seasons which periodically affect the nervous
system. It would be easy to multiply examples of this cerebral
excitement, but such repetitions are unnecessary. The fact remains that
the sexes differ materially in character, and that for general purposes
the female is preferred in a domesticated state, although the male
tusker is far more powerful, and when thoroughly trustworthy is capable
of self-defence against attack, and of energy in work that would render
it superior to the gentler but inferior female.  (The female differs
from other quadrupeds in the position of her teats, which are situated
upon the breast between the fore legs. She is in the habit of caressing
her calf with her trunk during the operation of suckling.)

It may be inferred that a grand specimen of a male elephant is of rare
occurrence. A creature that combines perfection of form with a firm but
amiable disposition, and is free from the timidity which unfortunately
distinguishes the race, may be quite invaluable to any resident in
India. The actual monetary value of an elephant must of necessity be
impossible to decide, as it must depend upon the requirements of the
purchaser and the depth of his pocket. Elephants differ in price as much
as horses, and the princes of India exhibit profuse liberality in paying
large sums for animals that approach their standard of perfection.

The handsomest elephant that I have ever seen in India belongs to the
Rajah of Nandgaon, in the district bordering upon Reipore. I saw this
splendid specimen among twenty others at the Durbar of the Chief
Commissioner of the Central Provinces in December 1887, and it
completely eclipsed all others both in size and perfection of points.
The word "points" is inappropriate when applied to the distinguishing
features of an elephant, as anything approaching the angular would be
considered a blemish. An Indian elephant to be perfect should be 9 feet
6 inches in perpendicular height at the shoulder. The head should be
majestic in general character, as large as possible,--especially broad
across the forehead, and well rounded. The boss or prominence above the
trunk should be solid and decided, mottled with flesh-coloured spots;
these ought to continue upon the cheeks, and for about three feet down
the trunk. This should be immensely massive; and when the elephant
stands at ease, the trunk ought to touch the ground when the tip is
slightly curled. The skin of the face should be soft to the touch, and
there must be no indentations or bony hollows, which are generally the
sign of age. The ears should be large, the edges free from inequalities
or rents, and above all they ought to be smooth, as though they had been
carefully ironed. When an elephant is old, the top of the ear curls, and
this symptom increases with advancing years. The eyes should be large
and clear, the favourite colour a bright hazel. The tusks ought to be as
thick as possible, free from cracks, gracefully curved, very slightly to
the right and left, and projecting not less than three feet from the
lips. The body should be well rounded, without a sign of any rib. The
shoulders must be massive with projecting muscular development; the back
very slightly arched, and not sloping too suddenly towards the tail,
which should be set up tolerably high. This ought to be thick and long,
the end well furnished with a double fringe of very long thick hairs or
whalebone-looking bristles. The legs should be short in proportion to
the height of the animal, but immensely thick, and the upper- portion
above the knee ought to exhibit enormous muscle. The knees should be
well rounded, and the feet be exactly equal to half the perpendicular
height of the elephant when measured in their circumference, the weight
pressing upon them whilst standing.

The skin generally ought to be soft and pliable, by no means tight or
strained, but lying easily upon the limbs and body.

An elephant which possesses this physical development should be equal in
the various points of character that are necessary to a highly-trained
animal.

When ordered to kneel, it should obey instantly, and remain patiently
upon the ground until permitted to rise from this uneasy posture. In
reality the elephant does not actually kneel upon its fore knees, but
only upon those of the hinder legs, while it pushes its fore legs
forward and rests its tusks upon the ground. This is a most unnatural
position, and is exceedingly irksome. Some elephants are very impatient,
and they will rise suddenly without orders while the ladder is placed
against their side for mounting. Upon one occasion a badly-trained
animal jumped up so suddenly that Lady Baker, who had already mounted,
was thrown off on one side, while I, who was just on the top of the
ladder, was thrown down violently upon the other. A badly-tutored
elephant is exceedingly dangerous, as such vagaries are upon so large a
scale that a fall is serious, especially should the ground be stony.

A calm and placid nature free from all timidity is essential. Elephants
are apt to take sudden fright at peculiar sounds and sights. In
travelling through a jungle path it is impossible to foretell what
animals may be encountered on the route. Some elephants will turn
suddenly round and bolt, upon the unexpected crash of a wild animal
startled in the forest. The scent or, still worse, the roar of a bear
within 50 yards of the road will scare some elephants to an extent that
will make them most difficult of control. The danger may be imagined
should an elephant absolutely run away with his rider in a dense forest;
if the unfortunate person should be in a howdah he would probably be
swept off and killed by the intervening branches, or torn to shreds by
the tangled thorns, many of which are armed with steel-like hooks.

It is impossible to train all elephants alike, and very few can be
rendered thoroughly trustworthy; the character must be born in them if
they are to approach perfection.

Our present perfect example should be quite impassive, and should take
no apparent notice of anything, but obey his mahout with the regularity
of a machine. No noise should disturb the nerves, no sight terrify, no
attack for one moment shake the courage; even the crackling of fire
should be unheeded, although the sound of high grass blazing and
exploding before the advancing line of fire tries the nerves of
elephants more than any other danger.

An elephant should march with an easy swinging pace at the rate of 5
miles an hour, or even 6 miles within that time upon a good flat road.
As a rule, the females have an easier pace than the large males. When
the order to stop is given, instead of hesitating, the elephant should
instantly obey, remaining rigidly still without swinging the head or
flapping the ears, which is its inveterate and annoying habit. The
well-trained animal should then move backward or forward, either one or
several paces, at a sign from the mahout, and then at once become as
rigid as a rock.

Should the elephant be near a tiger, it will generally know the position
of the enemy by its keen sense of smell. If the tiger should suddenly
charge from some dense covert with the usual short but loud roars, the
elephant ought to remain absolutely still to receive the onset, and to
permit a steady aim from the person in the howdah. This is a very rare
qualification, but most necessary in a good shikar elephant. Some
tuskers will attack the tiger, which is nearly as bad a fault as running
in the opposite direction; but the generality, even if tolerably steady,
will swing suddenly upon one side, and thus interrupt the steadiness of
aim.

The elephant should never exercise its own will, but ought to wait in
all cases for the instructions of the mahout, and then obey immediately.

Such an animal, combining the proportions and the qualities I have
described, might be worth in India about / 1500 to any Indian Rajah, but
there may be some great native sportsmen who would give double that
amount for such an example of perfection, which would combine the beauty
required for a state elephant, with the high character of a shikar
animal.

Native princes and rajahs take a great pride in the trappings of their
state elephants, which is exhibited whenever any pageant demands an
extraordinary display. I have seen cloths of silk so closely embroidered
with heavy gold as to be of enormous value, and so great a weight that
two men could barely lift them. Such cloths may have been handed down
from several generations, as they are seldom used excepting in the state
ceremonies which occur at distant intervals. A high caste male elephant
in its gold trappings, with head-piece and forehead lap equally
embroidered, and large silver bells suspended from its tusks, is a
magnificent object during the display attending a durbar. At such an
occasion there may be a hundred elephants all in their finery, each
differing from the other both in size and in the colours of their
surroundings.

The outfit for an elephant depends upon the work required. The first
consideration is the protection of the back. Although the skin appears
as though it could resist all friction, it is astonishing how quickly a
sore becomes established, and how difficult this is to heal. The mahouts
are exceedingly careless, and require much supervision; the only method
to ensure attention is to hold them responsible and to deduct so many
rupees from their pay should the backs of their animals be unsound.

With proper care an elephant ought never to suffer, as the pad should be
made to fit its figure specially. The usual method is to cover the back
from the shoulders to the hips with a large quilted pad stuffed with
cotton, about 2 1/2 inches thick. In my opinion, wool is preferable to
cotton, and, instead of this coverlet being compact, there should be
an opening down the centre, to avoid all pressure upon the spine. A
quilted pad stuffed with wool, 3 inches thick, with an opening down the
middle, would rest comfortably upon the animal's back, and would
entirely relieve the highly-arched backbone, which would thus be exposed
to a free current of air, and would remain hard instead of becoming
sodden through perspiration. Upon this soft layer the large pad is
fixed. This is made of the strongest sacking, stuffed as tight as
possible with dried reeds of a tough variety that is common in most
tanks; this is open in the centre and quite a foot thick at the sides,
so that it fills up the hollow, and rests the weight upon the ribs at a
safe distance from the spine.

There are various contrivances in the shape of saddles. The ordinary
form for travelling is the char-jarma; this is an oblong frame,
exceedingly strong, which is lashed upon the pad secured by girths. It
is stuffed with cotton, and neatly covered with native cloth. A stuffed
back passes down the centre like a sofa, and two people on either side
sit dos-a-dos, as though in an Irish car. Iron rails protect the ends,
and swing foot-boards support the feet. This is, in my opinion, the most
comfortable way of riding, but some care is necessary in proportioning
the weights to ensure a tolerable equilibrium, otherwise, should the
route be up and down steep nullahs, the char-jarma will shift upon one
side, and become most disagreeable to those who find themselves on the
lower level. Natives prefer a well-stuffed pad, as they are accustomed
to sit with their legs doubled up in a manner that would be highly
uncomfortable to Europeans. Such pads are frequently covered with
scarlet cloth and gold embroidery, while the elephant is dressed in a
silk and gold cloth reaching to its knees. The face and head are painted
in various colours and devices, exhibiting great taste and skill on the
part of the designer. It is curious to observe the dexterity with which
an otherwise ignorant mahout will decorate the head of his animal by
drawing most elaborate curves and patterns, that would tax the ability
of a professional artist among Europeans.

The howdah is the only accepted arrangement for sporting purposes, and
much attention is necessary in its construction, as the greatest
strength should be combined with lightness. There ought to be no doors,
as they weaken the solidity of the whole. The weight of a good roomy
howdah should not exceed two hundredweight, or at the outside 230
pounds. It must be remembered that the howdah is not adapted for
travelling, as there is a disagreeable swinging motion inseparable from
its position upon the elephant's back which is not felt upon either the
pad or the char-jarma. The howdah is simply for shooting, as you can
fire in any direction, which is impossible from any other contrivance
where the rider sits in a constrained position.

A good howdah should be made of exceedingly strong and tough wood for
the framework, dovetailed, and screwed together, the joints being
specially secured by long corner straps of the best iron. The frame
ought to be panelled with galvanised wire of the strongest description,
the mesh being one-half inch. The top rail, of a hard wood, should be
strengthened all around the howdah by the addition of a male bamboo 1
1/2 inch in diameter, securely lashed with raw hide, so as to bind the
structure firmly together, and to afford a good grip for the hand. As
the howdah is divided into two compartments, the front being for the
shooter, and the back part for his servant, the division should be
arranged to give increased strength to the construction by the firmness
of the cross pieces, which ought to bind the sides together in forming
the middle seat; the back support of which should be a padded shield of
thick leather, about 15 inches in diameter, secured by a broad strap of
the same material to buckles upon the sides. This will give a yielding
support to the back of the occupant when sitting. The seat should lift
up, and be fitted as a locker to contain anything required; and a
well-stuffed leather cushion is indispensable. The gun-rack should be
carefully arranged to contain two guns upon the left, and one upon the
right of the sitter. These must be well and softly padded, to prevent
friction. The floor should be covered either with thick cork or
cork-matting to prevent the feet from slipping.

It must be remembered that a howdah may be subjected to the most severe
strain, especially should a tiger spring upon the head of an elephant,
and the animal exert its prodigious strength to throw off its assailant.
The irons for fastening the girths should therefore be of the toughest
quality, and, instead of actual girths, only thick ropes of cotton ought
to be used. A girth secured with a buckle is most dangerous, as, should
the buckle give way, an accident of the most alarming kind must
assuredly occur. The howdah ought to be lashed upon the elephant by six
folds of the strong cotton rope described, tightened most carefully
before starting. It should be borne in mind that much personal attention
is necessary during this operation, as the natives are most careless.
Two or three men ought to sit in the howdah during the process of
lacing, so as to press it down tightly upon the pad, otherwise it will
become loose during the march, and probably lean over to one side, which
is uncomfortable to both man and beast. A large hide of the sambur deer,
well cured and greased so as to be soft and pliable, should, invariably
protect the belly of the elephant, and the flanks under the fore legs,
from the friction of the girthing rope. The breastplate and crupper also
require attention. These ought to be of the same quality of cotton rope
as used for the girths, but that portion of the crupper which passes
beneath the tail should pass through an iron tube bent specially to fit,
like the letter V elongated, U. This is a great safeguard against
galling, and I believe it was first suggested by Mr. G. P. Sanderson.

A fine male elephant, well accoutred with his howdah thoroughly secured,
and a good mahout, is a splendid mount, and the rider has the
satisfaction of feeling that his animal is well up to his weight. I do
not know a more agreeable sensation than the start in the early morning
upon a thoroughly dependable elephant, with all the belongings in
first-rate order, and a mahout who takes a real interest in his work; a
thorough harmony exists between men and beast, the rifles are in their
places, and you feel prepared for anything that may happen during the
hazardous adventures of the day.

But how much depends upon that mahout! It is impossible for an ordinary
bystander to comprehend the secret signs which are mutually understood
by the elephant and his guide, the gentle pressure of one toe, or the
compression of one knee, or the delicate touch of a heel, or the almost
imperceptible swaying of the body to one side; the elephant detects
every movement, howsoever slight, and it is thus mysteriously guided by
its intelligence; the mighty beast obeys the unseen helm of thought,
just as a huge ship yields by apparent instinct to the insignificant
appendage which directs her course, the rudder. All good riders know the
mystery of a "good hand" upon a horse; this is a thing that is
understood, but cannot be described except by a negative. There are
persons who can sit a horse gracefully and well, but who have not the
instinctive gift of hand. The horse is aware of this almost as soon as
the rider has been seated in the saddle. In that case, whether the horse
be first-class or not, there will be no comfort for the animal, and no
ease for the rider.

If such a person puts his horse at a fence, the animal will not be
thoroughly convinced that his rider wishes him to take it. There are
more accidents occasioned by a "bad hand" than by any other cause. If
this is the case with a horse well bitted, what must be the result
should an elephant be guided by a mahout of uncertain temperament? The
great trouble when travelling on an elephant is the difficulty in
getting the mahout to obey an order immediately, and at the same time to
convey that order to the animal without the slightest hesitation.
Natives frequently hesitate before they determine the right from left.
This is exasperating to the highest degree, and is destructive to the
discipline of an elephant. There must be no uncertainty; if there is the
slightest vacillation, it will be felt instinctively in the muscles of
the rider, and the animal, instead of obeying mechanically the requisite
pressure of knee or foot, feels that the mahout does not exactly know
what he is about. This will cause the elephant to swing his head,
instead of keeping steady and obeying the order without delay. In the
same manner, when tiger-shooting, the elephant will at once detect
anything like tremor on the part of his mahout. Frequently a good
elephant may be disgraced by the nervousness of his guide, nothing being
so contagious as fear.

Although I may be an exception in the non-admiration of the elephant's
sagacity to the degree in which it is usually accepted, there is no one
who more admires or is so foolishly fond of elephants. I have killed
some hundreds in my early life, but I have learnt to regret the past,
and 1 nothing would now induce me to shoot an elephant unless it were
either a notorious malefactor, or in self-defence. There is, however, a
peculiar contradiction in the character of elephants that tends to
increase the interest in the animal. If they were all the same, there
would be a monotony; but this is never the case, either among animals or
human beings, although they may belong to one family. The elephant, on
the other hand, stands so entirely apart from all other animals, and its
performances appear so extraordinary owing to the enormous effect which
its great strength produces instantaneously, that its peculiarities
interest mankind more than any smaller animal. Yet, when we consider the
actual aptitude for learning, or the natural habits of the creature, we
are obliged to confess that in proportion to its size the elephant is a
mere fool in comparison with the intelligence of many insects. If the
elephant could form a home like the bee, and store up fodder for a
barren season; if it could build a nest of comfort like a bird, to
shelter itself from inclement weather; if it could dam up a river like
the beaver, to store water for the annual drought; if it could only,
like the ordinary squirrel or field mouse, make a store for a season of
scarcity, how marvellous we should think this creature, simply because
it is so huge! It actually does nothing remarkable, unless specially
instructed; but it is this inertia that renders it so valuable to man.
If the elephant were to be continually exerting its natural
intelligence, and volunteering all manner of gigantic performances in
the hope that they would be appreciated by its rider, it would be
unbearable; the value of the animal consists in its capacity to learn,
and in its passive demeanour, until directed by the mahout's commands.

Nothing can positively determine the character of any elephant; every
animal, I believe, varies more or less in courage according to its state
of health, which must influence the nervous system. The most courageous
man may, if weakened by sickness, be disgusted with himself by starting
at an unexpected sound, although upon ordinary occasions he would not be
affected. Animals cannot describe their feelings, and they may sometimes
feel "out of sorts" without being actually ill, but the nervous system
may be unstrung.

I once saw a ridiculous example of sudden panic in an otherwise most
dependable elephant. This was a large male belonging to the Government,
which had been lent to me for a few months, and was thoroughly staunch
when opposed to a charging tiger; in fact, I believe that Moolah Bux was
afraid of nothing, and he was the best shikar elephant I have ever
ridden. One day we were driving a rocky hill for a tiger that was
supposed to be concealed somewhere among the high grass and broken
boulders, and, as the line of beaters was advancing, I backed the
elephant into some thick jungle, which commanded an open but narrow
glade at the foot of the low hill. Only the face of the elephant was
exposed, and as this was grayish brown, something similar to the colour
of the leafless bushes, we were hardly noticeable to anything that might
break covert.

The elephant thoroughly understood the work in hand; and as the loud
yells and shouts of the beaters became nearer, Moolah Bux pricked his
ears and kept a vigilant look-out. Suddenly a hare emerged about 100
yards distant; without observing our well-concealed position it raced at
full speed directly towards us, and in a few seconds it ran almost
between the elephant's legs as it made for the protection of the jungle.
The mighty Moolah Bux fairly bolted with a sudden terror as this
harmless and tiny creature dashed beneath him, and although he recovered
himself after 5 or 6 yards, nevertheless for the moment the monster was
scared almost by a mouse.

It is this uncertainty of character that has rendered the elephant
useless for military purposes in the field since the introduction of
fire-arms. In olden times there can be no doubt that a grand array of
elephantine cavalry, with towers containing archers on their backs,
would have been an important factor when in line of battle; but
elephants are useless against fire-arms, and in our early battles with
the great hordes brought against us by the princes of India, their
elephants invariably turned tail, and added materially to the defeat of
their army.

Only a short time ago, at Munich, a serious accident was occasioned by a
display of ten or twelve elephants during some provincial fete, when
they took fright at the figure of a dragon vomiting fire, and a general
stampede was the consequence, resulting in serious injuries to fifteen
or sixteen persons.

I once had an elephant who ought to have killed me upon several
occasions through sheer panic, which induced him to run away like a
railway locomotive rushing through a forest. This was the tusker Lord
Mayo, who, although a good-tempered harmless creature, appeared to be
utterly devoid of nerves, and would take fright at anything to which it
was unaccustomed. The sound of the beaters when yelling and shouting in
driving jungle was quite sufficient to start this animal off in a
senseless panic, not always for a short distance, as on one occasion it
ran at full speed for upwards of a mile through a dense forest, in spite
of the driving-hook of the mahout, which had been applied with a maximum
severity.

It is curious to observe how all the education of an elephant appears to
vanish when once the animal takes fright and bolts for the nearest
jungle. That seems to be the one idea which is an instinct of original
nature, to retreat into the concealment of a forest.

I was on one occasion mounted upon Lord Mayo in the Balagh district when
the beaters were not dependable. A tiger had killed a bullock at the
foot of a wooded hill bordered by an open plain. As the beaters had
misbehaved upon several occasions by breaking their line, I determined
to take command of the beat in person. I therefore formed the line in
the open, with every man equidistant, there being about a hundred and
twenty villagers. I had placed my shikari with a rifle in a convenient
position about 200 yards in advance, upon a mucharn or platform that had
been constructed for myself.

Having after some trouble arranged the beaters in a proper line, I gave
the order for an advance. In an instant the shouts arose, and three or
four tom-toms added to the din.

I was mounted upon Lord Mayo near the centre of the line in the open
glade. No sooner had the noise begun, than a violent panic seized this
senseless brute, and without the slightest warning it rushed straight
ahead for the thick forest at a pace that would nearly equal that of a
luggage train. It was in vain that the mahout dug the iron spike into
its head and alternately seized its ears by the unsparing hook, away it
ran, regardless of all punishment or persuasion, until it reached the
jungle, and with a crash we entered in full career!

Fortunately there was no howdah, only a pad well secured by thick ropes.
To clutch these tightly, and to dodge the opposing branches by ducking
the head, now swinging to the right, then doubling down upon the left to
allow the bending trees to sweep across the pad, then flinging oneself
nearly over the flank to escape a bough that threatened instant
extermination; all these gymnastics were performed and repeated in a few
seconds only, as the panic-stricken brute ploughed its way, regardless
of all obstructions, which threatened every instant to sweep us off its
back. The active mahout of my other elephant, knowing the character of
Lord Mayo, had luckily accompanied us with a spear, and although at the
time I was unaware of his presence, he was exerting himself to the
utmost in a vain endeavour to overtake our runaway elephant. At first I
imagined that the great pace would soon be slackened, and that a couple
of hundred yards would exhaust the animal's wind, especially as the
ground was slightly rising. Instead of this, it was going like a
steam-engine, and if there had been the usual amount of thorny creepers
we should have been torn to pieces.

" Keep him straight for the hill," I shouted, as I saw we were
approaching an inclination. "Don't let him turn to right or left, keep
his head straight for the steep ground;" and the mahout, who had been
yelling for assistance, and had lost both his turban and skull-cap, did
all that he could by tunnelling into the brute's head with his
formidable hook to direct it straight up the hill. I never knew an
elephant go at such a pace over rocky ground. Young trees were smashed
down, some branches torn, others bent forward, which swung backwards
with dangerous force, and yet on we tore without a sign of diminishing
speed. How I longed for an anchor to have brought up our runaway ship
head to wind! We had the coupling chains upon the pad, and my
interpreter, Modar Bux, at length succeeded in releasing these, and in
throwing them down for any person following to make use of. After a run
of quite half a mile, we fortunately arrived at a really steep portion
of the hill, where the rocks were sufficiently large to present a
difficulty to any runaway. The mahout who had been following our course,
breathless and with bleeding feet, here overtook us. Placing himself in
advance of the elephant, who seemed determined to continue its flight
among the rocks, he dug the spear deep into the animal's trunk, and kept
repeating the apparently cruel thrusts until at length it stopped.
Several men now arrived with the coupling chains, which were at length
with difficulty adjusted, and the elephant's fore legs were shackled
together. It was curious to observe the dexterous manner in which it
resisted this operation, and had it not been for the dread of the spear
I much doubt whether it could have been accomplished.

This was the first time that I had experienced a runaway elephant, but I
soon found that both my steeds were equally untrustworthy. A few weeks
after this event we had completed the morning's march and found the camp
already prepared for our arrival, at a place called Kassli, which is a
central depot for railway sleepers as they are received from the native
contractors. These were carefully piled in squares of about twenty each,
and covered a considerable area of ground at intervals. A large ox had
died that morning, and as it was within 50 yards of the tent it was
necessary to remove it; the vultures were already crowded in the
surrounding trees waiting for its decomposition. As usual, none of the
natives would defile themselves by touching the dead body. I accordingly
gave orders that one of the elephants should drag it about a mile down
wind away from the camp. Lord Mayo was brought to the spot, and the
sweeper, being of a low caste, attached a very thick rope to the hind
legs of the ox; the other end being made fast to the elephant's pad in
such a manner as to form traces. The elephant did not exhibit the
slightest interest in the proceeding, and everything was completed, the
body of the ox being about 6 or 7 yards behind.

No sooner did Lord Mayo move forward in obedience to the mahout's
command, and feel the tug of the weight attached, than he started off in
a panic at a tremendous pace, dragging the body through the lanes
between the piles of sleepers, upsetting them, and sending them flying
in all directions, as the dead ox caught against the corners; and,
helter-skelter, he made for the nearest jungle about 300 yards distant.
Fortunately some wood-cutters were there, who yelled and screamed to
turn him back; but although this had the effect of driving him from the
forest, he now started over the plain down hill, dragging the heavy ox
behind as though it had been a rabbit, and going at such a pace that
none of the natives could overtake him, although by this time at least
twenty men were in full pursuit.

The scene was intensely ridiculous, and the whole village turned out to
enjoy the fun of a runaway elephant with a dead ox bounding over the
inequalities of the ground; no doubt Lord Mayo imagined that he was
being hunted by the carcase which so persistently followed him wherever
he went. There was no danger to the driver, as the elephant was kept
away from the forest. The ground became exceedingly rough and full of
holes from the soakage during the rainy season. This peculiar soil is
much disliked by elephants, as the surface is most treacherous, and
cavernous hollows caused by subterranean water action render it unsafe
for the support of such heavy animals. The resistance of the dead ox,
which constantly jammed in the abrupt depressions, began to tell upon
the speed, and in a short time the elephant was headed, and surrounded
by a mob of villagers. I was determined that he should now be compelled
to drag the carcase quietly in order to accustom him to the burden; we
therefore attached the coupling chains to his fore legs, and drove him
gently, turning him occasionally to enable him to inspect the carcase
that had smitten him with panic. In about twenty minutes he became
callous, and regarded the dead body with indifference.

Although an elephant is capable of great speed, it cannot jump, neither
can it lift all four legs off the ground at the same time; this
peculiarity renders it impossible to cross any ditch with hard
perpendicular sides that will not crumble or yield to pressure, if such
a ditch should be wider than the limit of the animal's extreme pace. If
the limit of a pace should be 6 feet, a 7-foot ditch would effectually
stop an elephant.

Although the strength of an elephant is prodigious whenever it is fully
exerted, it is seldom that the animal can be induced to exhibit the
maximum force which it possesses. A rush of a herd of elephants, with a
determined will against the enclosure of palisades used for their
capture would probably break through the barrier, but they do not appear
to know their strength, or to act together. This want of cohesion is a
sufficient proof that in a wild state they are not so sagacious as they
have been considered. I do not describe the kraal or keddah, which is so
well known by frequent descriptions as the most ancient and practical
method of capturing wild elephants; but although in Ceylon the kraal has
been used from time immemorial, the Singhalese are certainly behind the
age as compared with the great keddah establishments of India. In the
latter country there is a ditch inside the palisaded enclosure, which
prevents the elephants from exerting their force against the structure;
in Ceylon this precaution is neglected, and the elephants have
frequently effected a breach in the palisade. In Ceylon all the old
elephants captured within the kraal or keddah are considered worthless,
and only those of scarcely full growth are valued; in India, all
elephants irrespective of their age are valued, and the older animals
are as easily domesticated as the young.

The keddah establishment at Dacca is the largest in India, and during
the last season, under the superintendence of Mr. G. P. Sanderson, 404
elephants were captured in the Garo Hills, 132 being taken in one drive.
It is difficult to believe that any district can continue to produce
upon this wholesale scale, and it is probable that after a few years
elephants will become scarce in the locality. Nevertheless there is a
vast tract of forest extending into Burmah, and the migratory habits of
the elephant at certain seasons may continue the supply, especially if
certain fruits or foliage attract them to the locality.

This migratory instinct is beyond our powers of explanation in the case
of either birds, beasts, or fishes. How they communicate, in order to
organise the general departure, must remain a mystery. It is well known
that in England, previous to the departure of the swallows, they may be
seen sitting in great numbers upon the telegraph wires as though
discussing the projected journey; in a few days after, there is not a
swallow to be seen.

I once, and only once, had an opportunity of seeing elephants that were
either migrating, or had just arrived from a migration. This was between
3 degrees and 4 degrees N. latitude in Africa, between Obbo and Farajok.
We were marching through an uninhabited country for about 30 miles, and
in the midst of beautiful park-like scenery we came upon the magnificent
sight of vast herds of elephants. These were scattered about the country
in parties varying in numbers from ten to a hundred, while single bulls
dotted the landscape with their majestic forms in all directions. In
some places there were herds of twenty or thirty entirely composed of
large tuskers; in other spots were parties of females with young ones
interspersed, of varying growths, and this grand display of elephantine
life continued for at least 2 miles in length as we rode parallel with
the groups at about a quarter of a mile distant. It would have been
impossible to guess the number, as there was no regularity in their
arrangement, neither could I form any idea of the breadth of the area
that was occupied. I have often looked back upon that extraordinary
scene, and it occurred to me forcibly in after years, when I had 3200
elephants' tusks in one station of Central Africa, which must have
represented 1600 animals slain for their fatal ivory.

The day must arrive when ivory will be a production of the past, as it
is impossible that the enormous demand can be supplied. I have already
explained that the African savage never tames a wild animal, neither
does he exhibit any sympathy or pity, his desire being, like the gunner
of the nineteenth century, to exterminate. It may be readily imagined
that wholesale destruction is the result whenever some favourable
opportunity delivers a large herd of elephants into the native hands.

There are various methods employed for trapping, or otherwise
destroying. Pitfalls are the most common, as they are simple, and
generally fatal. Elephants are thirsty creatures, and when in large
herds they make considerable roads in their passage towards a river.
They are nearly always to be found upon the same track when nightly
approaching the usual spot for drinking or for a bath. It is therefore a
simple affair to intercept their route by a series of deep pitfalls dug
exactly in the line of their advance. These holes vary in shape; the
circular are, I believe, the most effective, as the elephant falls head
downwards, but I have seen them made of different shapes and proportions
according to the individual opinions of the trappers.

It is exceedingly dangerous, when approaching a river, to march in
advance of a party without first sending forward a few natives to
examine the route in front. The pits are usually about 12 or 14 feet in
depth. These are covered over with light wood, and crossed with slight
branches or reeds, upon which is laid some long dry grass; this is
covered lightly with soil, upon which some elephant's dung is scattered,
as though the animal had dropped it during the action of walking. A
little broken grass is carelessly distributed upon the surface, and the
illusion is complete. The night arrives, and the unsuspecting elephants,
having travelled many miles of thirsty wilderness, hurry down the
incline towards the welcome river. Crash goes a leading elephant into a
well-concealed pitfall! To the right and left the frightened members of
the herd rush at the unlooked-for accident, but there are many other
pitfalls cunningly arranged to meet this sudden panic, and several more
casualties may arise, which add to the captures on the following
morning, when the trappers arrive to examine the position of their pits.
The elephants are then attacked with spears while in their helpless
position, until they at length succumb through loss of blood.

There is another terrible method of destroying elephants in Central
Africa. During the dry season, when the withered herbage from 10 to 14
feet in height is most inflammable, a large herd of elephants may be
found in the middle of such high grass that they can only be perceived
should a person be looking down from some elevated point. If they should
be espied by some native hunter, he would immediately give due notice to
the neighbourhood, and in a short time the whole population would
assemble for the hunt. This would be arranged by forming a circle of
perhaps 2 miles in diameter, and simultaneously firing the grass so as
to create a ring of flames around the centre. An elephant is naturally
afraid of fire, and it has an instinctive horror of the crackling of
flames when the grass has been ignited. As the circle of fire contracts
in approaching the encircled herd, they at first attempt retreat until
they become assured of their hopeless position; they at length become
desperate, being maddened by fear, and panic-stricken by the wild shouts
of the thousands who have surrounded them. At length, half-suffocated by
the dense smoke, and terrified by the close approach of the roaring
flames, the unfortunate animals charge recklessly through the fire,
burnt and blinded, to be ruthlessly speared by the bloodthirsty crowd
awaiting this last stampede. Sometimes a hundred or more elephants are
simultaneously destroyed in this wholesale slaughter. The flesh is then
cut into long strips and dried, every portion of the animal being smoked
upon frames of green wood, and the harvest of meat is divided among the
villages which have contributed to the hunt. The tusks are also shared,
a certain portion belonging by right to the various headmen and the
chief.

When man determines to commence war with the animal kingdom the result
must be disastrous to the beasts, if the human destroyers are in
sufficient numbers to ensure success. Although fire-arms may not be
employed, the human intelligence must always overpower the brute
creation, but man must exist in numerical superiority if the wild beasts
are to be fairly vanquished by a forced retreat from the locality. From
my own observation I have concluded that wild animals of all kinds will
withstand the dangers of traps, pitfalls, fire, and the usual methods
for their destruction employed by savages, but they will be rapidly
cleared out of an extensive district by the use of fire-arms. There is a
peculiar effect in the report of guns which appears to excite the
apprehension of danger in the minds of all animals. This is an
extraordinary instance of the general intelligence of wild creatures, as
they must be accustomed to the reports of thunder since the day of their
birth. Nevertheless they draw a special distinction between the loud
peal of thunder and the comparatively innocent explosion of a fire-arm.

Many years ago in Ceylon I devoted particular attention to this subject,
especially as it affects the character of elephants. How those creatures
manage to communicate with each other it is impossible to determine, but
the fact remains that a very few days' shooting will clear out an
extensive district, although the area may comprise a variation of open
prairie with a large amount of forest. I have frequently observed, in
the portion of Ceylon known as the Park country, the tracks of elephants
in great numbers which have evidently been considerable herds that have
joined together in a general retreat from ground which they considered
insecure. In that district I have arrived at the proper season, when the
grass after burning has grown to the height of about 2 feet, and it has
literally been alive with elephants. In a week my late brother General
Valentine Baker and myself shot thirty-two, and I sent a messenger to
invite a friend to join us, in the expectation of extraordinary sport.
Upon his arrival after five or six days, there was not an elephant in
the country, excepting two or three old single bulls which always
infested certain spots.

The reports of so many heavy rifles, which of necessity were fired every
evening at dusk in the days of muzzle-loaders, for the sake of cleaning,
must have widely alarmed the country, but independently of this special
cause there can be no doubt that after a few days' heavy shooting, the
elephants will combine in some mysterious manner and disappear from an
extensive district. In many ways these creatures are perplexing to the
student of natural history. It would occur to most people that in
countries where elephants abound we should frequently meet with those
that are sick, or so aged that they cannot accompany the herd. Although
for very many years I have hunted both in Asia and Africa I have never
seen a sick elephant in a wild state, neither have I ever come across an
example of imbecility through age. It is rarely we discover a dead
elephant that has not met with a violent death, and only once in my life
have I by accident found the remains of a tusker with the large tusks
intact. This animal had been killed in a fight, as there were
unmistakable signs of a fearful struggle, the ground being trodden
deeply in all directions.

It is supposed by the natives that when an elephant is mortally sick it
conceals itself in the thickest and most secluded portion of the jungle,
to die in solitude. Most animals have the same instinct, which induces
them to seek the shelter of some spot remote from all disturbance; and
should we find their remains, it will be near water, where the thirst of
disease has been assuaged at the last moment. The ox tribe are subject
to violent epidemics, and I have not only found the bodies of buffaloes
in great numbers upon occasions during some malignant murrain, but they
have been scattered throughout the country in all directions, causing a
frightful stench, and probably extending the infection. A few years ago
there was an epidemic among the bisons in the Reipore district of India;
this spread into neighbouring districts over a large extent of country,
and caused fearful ravages, but none of the deer tribe were attacked,
the disease being confined specially to the genus Bos. There are
interesting proofs of the specific poison of certain maladies which are
limited in their action to a particular class of animal. We find the
same in vegetable diseases, where a peculiar insect will attack a
distinct family of plants, or where a special variety of fungoid growth
exerts a similar baneful influence.

Wounded elephants have a marvellous power of recovery when in their wild
state, although they have no gift of surgical knowledge, their simple
system being confined to plastering their wounds with mud, or blowing
dust upon the surface. Dust and mud comprise the entire pharmacopoeia of
the elephant, and this is applied upon the most trivial as well as upon
the most serious occasion. If an elephant has a very slight sore back,
it will quickly point out the tender part by blowing dust with its
trunk upon the spot which it cannot reach. Should the mahout have
seriously punished the crown with the cruel driving-hook, the elephant
applies dust at the earliest opportunity. I have seen them, when in a
tank, plaster up a bullet-wound with mud taken from the bottom. This
application is beneficial in protecting the wound from the attack of
flies. The effect of these disgusting insects is quite shocking when an
unfortunate animal becomes fly-blown, and is literally consumed by
maggots. An elephant possesses a wonderful superiority over all other
animals in the trunk, which can either reach the desired spot directly,
or can blow dust upon it when required. All shepherds in England
appreciate the difficulty when their sheep are attacked by flies, but
they can be relieved by the human hand; a wild animal, on the contrary,
has no alleviation, and it must eventually succumb to its misery. There
is a peculiar fly in most tropical climates, but more especially in
Ceylon, which lays live maggots, instead of eggs that require some time
to hatch. These are the most dreadful pests, as the lively young maggots
exhibit a horrible activity in commencing their work the instant they
see the light; they burrow almost immediately into the flesh, and grow
to a large size within twenty-four hours, occasioning the most loathsome
sores. The best cure for any wound thus attacked, and swarming with live
maggots, is a teaspoonful of calomel applied and rubbed into the deep
sore.

I have seen the Arabs in the Soudan adopt a most torturing remedy when a
camel has suffered from a fly-blown sore back. Upon one occasion I saw a
camel kneeling upon the ground with a number of men around it, and I
found that it was to undergo a surgical operation for a terrible wound
upon its hump. This was a hole as large and deep as an ordinary
breakfast-cup, which was alive with maggots. The operator had been
preparing a quantity of glowing charcoal, which was at a red heat. This
was contained in a piece of broken chatty, a portion of a water jar, and
it was dexterously emptied into the diseased cavity on the camel's back.

The poor creature sprang to its feet, and screaming with agony, dashed
at full gallop across the desert in a frantic state, with the fire
scorching its flesh, and doubtless making it uncomfortable for the
maggots. Fire is the Arabs' vade mecum; the actual cautery is deeply
respected, and is supposed to be infallible. If internal inflammation
should attack the patient, the surface is scored with a red-hot iron.
Should guinea-worm be suspected, there is no other course to pursue than
to burn the suffering limb in a series of spots with a red-hot iron
ramrod. The worm will shortly make its appearance at one of these
apertures after some slight inflammation and suppuration. This fearful
complaint is termed Frendeet in the Soudan, and it is absorbed into the
system generally by drinking foul water. At the commencement of the
rainy season, when the ground has been parched by the long drought of
summer, the surface-water drains into the hollows and forms muddy pools.
The natives shun such water, as it is almost certain to contain the eggs
of the guinea-worm. These in some mysterious manner are hatched within
the body if swallowed in the act of drinking, and whether they develop
in the stomach or in the intestines, it is difficult to determine, but
the result is the same. The patient complains of rheumatic pains in one
limb; this increases until the leg or arm swells to a frightful extent,
accompanied by severe inflammation and great torment. The Arab
practitioner declares that the worm is at work, and is seeking for a
means of escape from the body. He accordingly burns half a dozen holes
with a red-hot iron or ramrod. In a few days the head of the guinea-worm
appears; it is immediately captured by a finely-split reed, and by
degrees is wound like a cotton thread by turning the reed every day.
This requires delicate manipulation, otherwise the worm might break, and
a portion remain in the flesh, which would increase the inflammation. An
average guinea-worm would be about three feet in length. Animals do not
appear to suffer from this complaint, although they are subject to the
attacks of great varieties of parasites. Elephants are frequently
troubled with internal worms. I witnessed a curious instance of the
escape of such insects from the stomach through a hole caused by a
bullet, nevertheless the animal appeared to be in good condition.

It was a fine moonlight night on the borders of Abyssinia that I sat up
to watch the native crops, which were a great attraction to the wild
elephants, although there was no heavy jungle nearer than 20 miles. It
was the custom of these animals to start after sunset, and to arrive at
about ten o'clock in the vast dhurra fields of the Arabs, who, being
without fire-arms, could only scare them by shouts and flaming torches.
The elephants did not care much for this kind of disturbance, and they
merely changed their position from one portion of the cultivated land to
another more distant, and caused serious destruction to the crop
(Sorghum vulgare), which was then nearly ripe. The land was rich, and
the dhurra grew 10 or 12 feet high, with stems as thick as sugar-cane,
while the large heads of corn contained several thousand grains the size
of a split-pea. This was most tempting food for elephants, and they
travelled nightly the distance named to graze upon the crops, and then
retreated before sunrise to their distant jungles.

I do not enjoy night shooting, but there was no other way of assisting
the natives, therefore I found myself watching, in the silent hours of
night, in the middle of a perfect sea of cultivation, unbroken for many
miles. There is generally a calm during the night, and there was so
perfect a stillness that it was almost painful, the chirp of an insect
sounding as loud as though it were a bird. At length there was a distant
sound like wind, or the rush of a stream over a rocky bed. This might
have been a sudden gust, but the sharp crackling of brittle dhurra stems
distinctly warned us that elephants had invaded the field, and that they
were already at their work of destruction.

As the dhurra is sown in parallel rows about 3 feet apart, and the
ground was perfectly flat, there was no difficulty in approaching the
direction whence the cracking of the dhurra could be distinctly heard.
The elephants appeared to be feeding towards us with considerable
rapidity, and in a few minutes I heard the sound of crunching within 50
yards of me. I immediately ran along the clear passage between the tall
stems, and presently saw a black form close to me as it advanced in the
next alley to my own. I do not think I was more than 4 or 5 yards from
it when it suddenly turned its head to the right, and I immediately took
a shot behind the ear. I had a white paper sight upon the muzzle of the
large rifle (No. 10), which was plainly distinguished in the bright
moonlight, and the elephant fell stone dead without the slightest
struggle.

After some delay from the dispersion of my men who carried spare guns, I
re-loaded, and followed in the direction which the herd had taken.

Although upon the "qui vive," they had not retreated far, as they were
unaccustomed to guns, and they were determined to enjoy their supper
after the long march of 20 miles to the attractive dhurra fields. I came
up with them about three-quarters of a mile from the first shot; here
there was the limit of cultivation, and all was wild prairie land; they
had retreated by the way they had arrived, with the intention, no doubt,
of returning again to the dhurra when the disturbing cause should have
disappeared. I could see the herd distinctly as they stood in a compact
body numbering some ten or twelve animals. The only chance was to run
straight at them in order to get as near as possible before they should
start, as I expected they would, in panic. Accordingly I ran forward,
when, to my surprise, two elephants rushed towards me, and I was obliged
to fire right and left. One fell to the ground for a moment, but
recovered; the other made no sign, except by whirling round and joining
the herd in full retreat.

That night I used a double-barrel muzzle-loader (No. 10), with conical
bullet made of 12 parts lead, 1 part quicksilver, 7 drams of powder.

Some days later we heard native reports concerning an elephant that had
been seen badly wounded, and very lame.

Forty-two days after this incident I had moved camp to a place called
Geera, 22 miles distant. It was a wild uninhabited district at that time
on the banks of the Settite river, with the most impervious jungle of
hooked thorns, called by the Arabs "kittul." This tree does not grow
higher than twenty-five feet, but it spreads to a very wide flat-topped
head, the branches are thick, the wood immensely strong and hard, while
the thorns resemble fish-hooks minus the barb. This impenetrable asylum
was the loved resort of elephants, and it was from this particular
station that they made their nocturnal raids upon the cultivated
district more than 20 miles distant in a direct line.

We slept out that night upon the sandy bed of a small stream, which at
that season of great heat had evaporated. Upon waking on the following
morning we found the blankets wet through with the heavy dew, and the
pillows soaking. Having arranged the camp, I left Lady Baker to give the
necessary orders, while I took my rifles and a few good men for a
reconnaissance of the neighbourhood.

The river ran through cliffs of rose-coloured limestone; this soon
changed to white; and we proceeded down stream examining the sandy
portions of the bed for tracks of game that might have passed during the
preceding night. After about a mile we came upon tracks of elephants,
which had apparently come down to drink at our side of the river, and
had then returned, I felt sure, to the thorny asylum named Tuleet.

There was no other course to pursue but to follow on the tracks; this we
did until we arrived at the formidable covert to which I have alluded.
It was impossible to enter this except at certain places where wild
animals had formed a narrow lane, and in one of these by-ways we
presently found ourselves, sometimes creeping, sometimes walking, but
generally adhering firmly every minute to some irrepressible branch of
hooked thorns, which gave us a pressing invitation to "wait a bit." In
a short time we found evident signs that the elephants were near at
hand. The natives thrust their naked feet into the fresh dung to see if
it was still warm. This was at length the case, and we advanced with
extra care. The jungle became so thick that it was almost impossible to
proceed. I wore a thick flaxen shirt which would not tear. This had
short sleeves, as I was accustomed to bare arms from a few inches above
the elbow. Not only my shirt, but the tough skin of my arms was every
now and then hooked up fast by these dreadful thorns, and at last it
appeared impossible to proceed. Just at that moment there was a sudden
rush, a shrill trumpet, and the jungle crashed around us in magnificent
style to those who enjoy such excitement, and a herd of elephants dashed
through the dense thicket and consolidated themselves into a mighty
block as they endeavoured to force down the tough thorny mass ahead of
them. This was a grand opportunity to run in, but a phalanx of opposing
rumps like the sterns of Dutch vessels in a crowd rendered it impossible
to shoot, or to pass ahead of the perplexed animals. A female elephant
suddenly wheeled round, and charged straight into us; fortunately I
killed her with a forehead shot exactly below the boss or projection
above the trunk. I now took a spare rifle, the half-pounder, and fired
into the flank of the largest elephant in the herd, just behind the last
rib, the shot striking obliquely, thus aimed to reach the lungs, as I
could not see any of the fore portion of the body.

The dense compressed thorny mass of jungle offered such resistance that
it was some time before it gave way before the united pressure of these
immense animals. At length it yielded as the herd crashed through, but
it then closed again upon us and made following impossible. However, we
felt sure that the elephant I had hit with the half-pound explosive
shell would die, and after creeping through upon the tracks with the
greatest difficulty for about 150 yards, we found it lying dead upon its
side.

The whole morning was occupied in cutting up the flesh and making a
post-mortem examination. We found the inside partially destroyed by the
explosive shell, which had shattered the lungs, but there was an old
wound still open where a bullet had entered the chest, and missing the
heart and lungs in an oblique course, it had passed through the stomach,
then through the cavity of the body beneath the ribs and flank, and had
penetrated the fleshy mass inside the thigh. In that great resisting
cushion of strong muscles the bullet had expended its force, and found
rest from its extraordinary course of penetration. After some trouble, I
not only traced its exact route, but I actually discovered the
projectile embedded in a foul mass of green pus, which would evidently
have been gradually absorbed without causing serious damage to the
animal. To my surprise, it was my own No. 10 two-groove conical bullet,
composed of twelve parts lead and one of quicksilver, which I had fired
when this elephant had advanced towards me at night, forty-two days ago,
and 22 miles, as far as I could ascertain, from the spot where I had now
killed it. The superior size of this animal to the remainder of the herd
had upon both occasions attracted my special attention, hence the fact
of selection, but I was surprised that any animal should have recovered
from such a raking shot. The cavity of the body abounded with hairy
worms about 2 inches in length. These had escaped from the stomach
through the two apertures made by the bullet; and upon an examination of
the contents, I found a great number of the same parasites crawling
among the food, while others were attached to the mucous membrane of the
paunch. This fact exhibits the recuperative power of an elephant in
recovering from a severe internal injury.

The natives of Central Africa have a peculiar method of destroying them,
by dropping a species of enormous dagger from the branch of a tree. The
blade of this instrument is about 2 feet in length, very sharp on both
edges, and about 3 inches in width at the base. It is secured in a
handle about 18 inches long, the top of which is knobbed; upon this
extremity a mass of well-kneaded tenacious clay mixed with chopped straw
is fixed, weighing 10 or 12 lbs., or even more. When a large herd of
elephants is discovered in a convenient locality, the hunt is thus
arranged:--A number of men armed with these formidable drop-spears or
daggers ascend all the largest and most shady trees throughout the
neighbouring forest. In a great hunt there may be some hundred trees
thus occupied. When all is arranged, the elephants are driven and forced
into the forest, to which they naturally retreat as a place of refuge.
It is their habit to congregate beneath large shady trees when thus
disturbed, in complete ignorance of the fact that the assassins are
already among the branches. When an elephant stands beneath a tree thus
manned, the hunter drops his weighted spearhead so as to strike the back
just behind the shoulder. The weight of the clay lump drives the sharp
blade up to the hilt, as it descends from a height of 10 or 12 feet
above the animal. Sometimes a considerable number may be beneath one
tree, in which case several may be speared in a similar manner. This
method of attack is specially fatal, as the elephants, in retreating
through the forest, brush the weighted handle of the spear-blade against
the opposing branches; these act as levers in cutting the inside of the
animal by every movement of the weapon, and should this be well centred
in the back there is no escape.

There is no animal that is more persistently pursued than the elephant,
as it affords food in wholesale supply to the Africans, who consume the
flesh, while the hide is valuable for shields; the fat when boiled down
is highly esteemed by the natives, and the ivory is of extreme value. No
portion of the animal is wasted in Africa, although in Ceylon the
elephant is considered worthless, and is allowed to rot uselessly upon
the ground where it fell to die.

The professional hunters that are employed by European traders shoot the
elephant with enormous guns, or rifles, which are generally rested upon
a forked stick driven into the ground. In this manner they approach to
about 50 yards' distance, and fire, if possible simultaneously, two
shots behind the shoulder. If these shots are well placed, the elephant,
if female, will fall at once, but if a large male, it will generally run
for perhaps 100 or more yards until it is forced to halt, when it
quickly falls, and dies from suffocation, if the lungs are pierced.

The grandest of all hunters are the Hamran Arabs, upon the Settite
river, on the borders of Abyssinia, who have no other weapon but the
heavy two-edged sword. I gave an intimate account of these wonderful
Nimrods many years ago in the _Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia_, but it is
impossible to treat upon the elephant without some reference to these
extraordinary people.

Since I visited that country in 1861, the published account of those
travels attracted several parties of the best class of ubiquitous
Englishmen, and I regret to hear that all those mighty hunters who
accompanied me have since been killed in the desperate hand-to-hand
encounters with wild elephants. Their life is a constant warfare with
savage beasts, therefore it may be expected that the termination is a
death upon their field of battle, invariably sword in hand.

James Bruce, the renowned African traveller of the last century, was the
first to describe the Agagheers of Abyssinia, and nothing could be more
graphic than his description both of the people and the countries they
inhabit, through which I have followed in Bruce's almost forgotten
footsteps, with the advantage of possessing his interesting book as my
guide wheresoever I went in 1861. Since that journey, the deplorable
interference of England in Egypt which resulted in the abandonment of
the Soudan and the sacrifice of General Gordon at Khartoum has
completely severed the link of communication that we had happily
established established, which had laid the foundations for future
civilisation. The splendid sword-hunters of the Hamran Arabs, who were
our friends in former days, have been converted into enemies by the
meddling of the British Government with affairs which they could not
understand. It is painful to look back to the past, when Lady Baker and
myself, absolutely devoid of all escort, passed more than twelve months
in exploring the wildest portions of the Soudan, attended only by one
Egyptian servant, assisted by some Arab boys which we picked up in the
desert among the Arab tribes. In those days the name of England was
respected, although not fairly understood. There was a vague impression
in the Arab mind that it was the largest country upon earth; that its
Government was the emblem of perfection; that the military power of the
country was overwhelming (having conquered India); and that the English
people always spoke the truth, and never forsook their friends in the
moment of distress. There was also an idea that England was the only
European Power which regarded the Mussulmans with a friendly eye, and
that, were it not for British protection, the Russians would eat the
Sultan and overthrow the mosques, to trample upon the Mahommedan power
in Constantinople. England was therefore regarded as the friend and the
ally of the Mahommedans; it was known that we had together fought
against the Russians, and it was believed that we were always ready to
fight in the same cause when called upon by the Sultan. All British
merchandise was looked upon as the ne plus ultra of purity and
integrity; there could be no doubt of the quality of goods, provided
that they were of English manufacture.

An Englishman cannot show his face among those people at the present
day. The myth has been exploded. The golden image has been scratched,
and the potter's clay beneath has been revealed. This is a terrible
result of clumsy management. We have failed in every way. Broken faith
has dissipated our character for sincerity, and our military operations
have failed to attain their object, resulting in retreat upon every
side, to be followed up even to the seashores of the Red Sea by an enemy
that is within range of our gun-vessels at Souakim. This is a
distressing change to those who have received much kindness and passed
most agreeable days among the Arab tribes of the Soudan deserts, and I
look back with intense regret to the errors we have committed, by which
the entire confidence has been destroyed which formerly was associated
with the English name. The countries which we opened by many years of
hard work and patient toil throughout the Soudan, even through the
extreme course of the White Nile to its birthplace in the equatorial
regions, have been abandoned by the despotic order of the British
Government, influenced by panic instead of policy; telegraphic lines
which had been established in the hitherto barbarous countries of
Kordofan, Darfur, the Blue Nile territories of Senaar, and throughout
the wildest deserts of Nubia to Khartoum have all been abandoned to the
rebels, who under proper management should have become England's
friends.

This has been our civilising influence (?), by which we have broken down
the work of half a century, and produced the most complete anarchy where
five-and-twenty years ago a lady could travel in security. England
entered Egypt in arms to _re-establish the authority of the Khedive!_ We
have dislocated his Empire, and forsaken the Soudan.



CHAPTER IV

The experience of modern practice has hardly decided the vexed question
"whether the African species is more difficult to train than the gentle
elephant of Asia." In a wild state there can be no doubt that the
African is altogether a different animal both in appearance and in
habits; it is vastly superior in size, and although of enormous bulk, it
is more active and possesses greater speed than the Asiatic variety. Not
only is the marked difference in shape a distinguishing peculiarity,--the
hollow back, the receding front, the great size of the ears,--but the
skin is rougher, and more decided in the bark-like appearance of its
texture.

The period of gestation is considered to be the same as the Asiatic
elephant, about twenty-two months, but this must be merely conjecture,
as there has hitherto been no actual proof. My own experience induces me
to believe that the African elephant is more savage, and although it may
be tamed and rendered docile, it is not so dependable as the Asiatic.
Only last year I saw an African female in a menagerie who had killed her
keeper, and was known to be most treacherous. Her attendant informed me
that she was particularly fond of change, and would welcome a new keeper
with evident signs of satisfaction, but after three or four days she
would tire of his society and would assuredly attempt to injure him,
either by backing and squeezing him against the wall, or by kicking
should he be within reach of her hind legs.

Few persons are aware of the extreme quickness with which an elephant
can kick, and the great height that can be reached by this mischievous
use of the hind foot. I have frequently seen an elephant kick as sharp
as a small pony, and the effect of a blow from so ponderous a mass
propelled with extreme velocity may be imagined. This is a peculiar
action, as the elephant is devoid of hocks, and it uses the knees of the
hind legs in a similar manner to those of a human being, therefore a
backward kick would seem unnatural; but the elephant can kick both
backwards and forwards with equal dexterity, and this constitutes a
special means of defence against an enemy, which seldom escapes when
exposed to such a game between the fore and hind feet of the infuriated
animal.

Although it is generally believed that an elephant moves the legs upon
each side simultaneously, like the camel, it does not actually touch the
ground with each foot upon the same side at exactly the same moment, but
the fore foot touches the surface first, rapidly followed by the hind,
and in both cases the heel is the first portion of the foot that reaches
its destination. The effect may be seen in the feet of an elephant after
some months' continual marching upon hard ground: the heels are worn
thin and are quite polished, as though they had been worn down by the
friction of sand-paper,-in fact, they are in the same condition as the
heels of an old boot.

The Indian native princes do not admire the African elephant, as it
combines many points which are objectionable to their peculiar ideas of
elephantine proportions. According to their views, the hollow back of an
African elephant would amount to a deformity. The first time that I ever
saw a large male of that variety I was of the same opinion. I was
hunting with the Hamran Arabs in a wild and uninhabited portion of
Abyssinia, along the banks of the Settite river, which is the main
stream of the Atbara, the chief affluent of the Nile.

As before stated, I have already published an account of these wonderful
hunters in the Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia, and it is sufficient to
describe them as the most fearless and active followers of the chase,
armed with no other weapon than the long, straight, two-edged Arab
sword, with which they attack all animals, from the elephant and
rhinoceros to the lion and buffalo. The sword is sharpened to the finest
degree, and the blade is protected for about six inches above the
cross-hilt with thick string, bound tightly round so as to afford a grip
for the right hand, while the left grips the hilt in the usual manner.
This converts the ordinary blade into a two-handed sword, a blow from
which will sever a naked man into two halves if delivered at the waist.
It may be imagined that a quick cut from such a formidable weapon will
at once divide the hamstring of any animal. The usual method of
attacking the elephant is as follows:-Three, or at the most four mounted
hunters sally forth in quest of game. When the fresh tracks of elephants
are discovered they are steadily followed up until the herd, or perhaps
the single animal, is found. If a large male with valuable tusks, it is
singled out and separated from the herd. The leading hunter follows the
retreating elephant, accompanied by his companions in single file. After
a close hunt, keeping within 10 yards of the game, a sudden halt becomes
necessary, as the elephant turns quickly round and faces its pursuers.

The greatest coolness is required, as the animal, now thoroughly roused,
is prepared to charge. The hunters separate to right and left, leaving
the leader to face the elephant. After a few moments, during which the
hunter insults the animal by shouting uncomplimentary remarks concerning
the antecedents of its mother, and various personal allusions to
imaginary members of the family, the elephant commences to back a
half-dozen paces as a preliminary to a desperate onset. This is the
well-known sign of the coming charge. A sharp shrill trumpet! and, with
its enormous ears thrown forward, the great bull elephant rushes towards
the apparently doomed horse. As quick as lightning the horse is turned,
and a race commences along a course terribly in favour of the elephant,
where deep ruts, thick tangled bush, and the branches of opposing trees
obstruct both horse and rider. Everything now depends upon the
sure-footedness of the horse and the cool dexterity of the rider. For
the first 100 yards an elephant will follow at 20 miles an hour, which
keeps the horse flying at top speed before it. The rider, even in this
moment of great danger, looks behind him, and adapts his horse's pace so
narrowly to that of his pursuer that the elephant's attention is wholly
absorbed by the hope of overtaking the unhappy victim.

In the meantime, two hunters follow the elephant at full gallop; one
seizes his companion's reins and secures the horse, while the rider
springs to the ground with the same agility as a trained circus-rider,
and with one dexterous blow of his flashing sword he divides the back
sinew of the elephant's hind leg about 16 inches above the heel. The
sword cuts to the bone. The elephant that was thundering forward at a
headlong speed suddenly halts; the foot dislocates when the great weight
of the animal presses upon it deprived of the supporting sinew. That one
cut of the sharp blade, disables an animal which appeared invincible.

As the elephant moves both legs upon the same side simultaneously, the
disabling of one leg entirely cripples all progress, and the creature
becomes absolutely helpless. The hunter, having delivered his fatal
stroke, springs nimbly upon one side to watch the effect, and then
without difficulty he slashes the back sinew of the remaining leg, with
the result that the animal bleeds to death. This is a cruel method, but
it requires the utmost dexterity and daring on the part of the hunters,
most of whom eventually fall victims to their gallantry.

I was accompanied by these splendid sword-hunters of the Hamran Arabs in
1861 during my exploration of the Nile tributaries of Abyssinia; and
upon the first occasion that I was introduced to an African male
elephant, the animal was standing at the point of a long sandbank which
had during high water formed the bed of the river, where a sudden bend
had hollowed out the inner side of the curve and thrown up a vast mass
of sand upon the opposite shore. This bank was a succession of terraces,
each about 4 feet high, formed at intervals during the changes in the
level of the retreating stream. The elephant was standing partly in the
water drinking, and quite 100 yards from the forest upon the bank. The
huge dark mass upon the glaring surface of white sand stood out in bold
relief and exhibited to perfection the form and proportions of the
animal; but it was so unlike the Indian elephant of my long experience
that I imagined some accident must have caused a deformity of the back,
which was deeply hollowed, instead of being convex like the Asiatic
species. I whispered this to my hunters, who did not seem to understand
the remark; and they immediately dismounted, exclaiming that the loose
sand was too deep for their horses, and they preferred to be on foot.

It was difficult to approach this elephant, as there was no cover
whatever upon the large area of barren sand; the only method was to keep
close to the level of the water below the terraces, as the head of the
animal was partially turned away from us whilst drinking. I had a very
ponderous single rifle weighing 22 lbs., which carried a conical shell
of half a pound, with a charge of 16 drams of powder. The sand was so
deep that any active movement would have been impossible with the load
of so heavy a weapon; I therefore determined to take a shoulder shot
should I be able to arrive unperceived within 50 yards. Stooping as low
as possible, and occasionally lying down as the ever-swinging head moved
towards us, we at length arrived at the spot which I had determined upon
for the fatal shot. Just at that moment the elephant perceived us, but
before he had made up his mind, I fired behind the shoulder, and as the
smoke cleared, I distinctly saw the bullet-hole, with blood flowing from
the wound. I think the elephant would have charged, but without a
moment's hesitation my gallant Hamrans rushed towards him sword in hand
in the hope of slashing his hamstring before he could reach the forest.
This unexpected and determined onset decided the elephant to retreat,
which he accomplished at such a pace, owing to the large surface of his
feet upon the loose sand, that the active hunters were completely
distanced, although they exerted themselves to the utmost in their
attempts to overtake him.

The wound through the shoulder was fatal, and the elephant fell dead in
thick thorny jungle, to which it had hurried as a secure retreat. This
was a very large animal, but as I did not actually measure it, any guess
at the real height would be misleading. As before noted, the measurement
of the African elephant Jumbo, when sold by the Zoological Society of
London, was 11 feet in height of shoulder, and 6 tons 10 cwts. nett when
weighed before shipment at the docks. That animal might be accepted as a
fair specimen, although it would be by no means unusual to see wild
elephants which greatly exceed this size.

The peculiar shape of head renders a front shot almost impossible, and
the danger of hunting the African elephant is greatly enhanced by this
formation of the skull, which protects the brain and offers no defined
point for aim.

I have never succeeded in killing a male African elephant by the
forehead shot, although it is certainly fatal to the Asiatic variety if
placed rather low, in the exact centre of the boss or projection above
the trunk. Should an African elephant charge, there is no hope of
killing the animal by a direct shot, and the only chance of safety for
the hunter is the possession of good nerves and a powerful
double-barrelled rifle, No. 8 or No. 4, with 14 drams of powder and a
well-hardened bullet. The right-hand barrel will generally stop a
charging elephant if the bullet is well placed very low, almost in the
base of the trunk. Should this shot succeed in turning the animal, the
left-hand barrel would be ready for a shot in the exact centre of the
shoulder; after which, time must be allowed for the elephant to fall
from internal haemorrhage.

There is no more fatal policy in hunting dangerous game than a contempt
of the animal, exhibited by a selection of weapons of inferior calibre.
Gunmakers in London of no practical experience, but who can only trust
to the descriptions of those who have travelled in wild countries,
cannot possibly be trusted as advisers. Common sense should be the
guide, and surely it requires no extraordinary intelligence to
understand that a big animal requires a big bullet, and that a big
bullet requires a corresponding charge of powder, which necessitates a
heavy rifle. If the hunter is not a Hercules, he cannot wield his club;
but do not permit him to imagine that he can deliver the same knock-down
blow with a lighter weapon, simply because he cannot use the heavier.

We lost only last year one of the most daring and excellent men, who was
an excellent representative of the type which is embraced in the proud
word "Englishman"--Mr. Ingram--who was killed by a wild female
elephant in Somali-land, simply because he attacked the animal with a
'450 rifle. Although he was mounted, the horse would not face some
prickly aloes which surrounded it, and the elephant, badly but not
really seriously wounded, was maddened by the attack, and, charging
home, swept the unfortunate rider from his saddle and spitted him with
her tusks.

This year (1889) we have to lament the death of another fine specimen of
our countrymen, the Hon. Guy Dawnay, who has been killed by a wild
buffalo in East Africa. The exact particulars will never be ascertained,
but it appears that he was following through thick jungle a wounded
buffalo, which suddenly turned and was not stopped by the rifle.

I cannot conceive anything more dangerous than the attack of such
animals with an inferior weapon. Nothing is more common than the
accounts of partially experienced beginners, who declare that the '450
bore is big enough for anything, because they have happened to kill a
buffalo or rhinoceros by a shoulder shot with such an inferior rifle. If
the animal had been facing them, it would have produced no effect
whatever, except to intensify the charge by maddening the already
infuriated animal.

This is the real danger in the possession of what is called a " handy
small-bore," when in wild countries abounding in dangerous game. You are
almost certain to select for your daily companion the lightest and
handiest rifle, in the same manner that you may use some favourite
walking-stick which you instinctively select from the stand that is
filled with a variety.

All hunters of dangerous animals should accustom themselves to the use
of large rifles, and never handle anything smaller than a '577, weighing
12 lbs., with a solid 650 grain hard bullet, and at the least 6 drams of
powder. I impress this upon all who challenge the dangers of the chase
in tropical climates. No person of average strength will feel the weight
of a 12 lb. rifle when accustomed to its use. Although this is too small
as a rule for heavy game, it is a powerful weapon when the bullet is
hardened by a tough mixture of antimony or quicksilver. A shoulder shot
from such a rifle will kill any animal less than an elephant, and the
front shot, or temple, or behind the ear, will kill any Asiatic
elephant.

I would not recommend so small a bore for heavy thick-skinned game, but
the '577 rifle is a good protector, and you need not fear any animal in
your rambles through the forest when thus armed, whereas the '450 and
even the '500 would be of little use against a charging buffalo.

At the same time it must be distinctly understood that so light a
projectile as 650 grains will not break the bone of an elephant's leg,
neither will it penetrate the skull of a rhinoceros unless just behind
the ear. This is sufficient to establish the inferiority of small-bores.

I have seen in a life's experience the extraordinary vagaries of rifle
bullets, and for close ranges of 20 yards there is nothing, in my
opinion, superior to the old spherical hardened bullet with a heavy
charge of powder. The friction is minimised, the velocity is accordingly
increased, and the hard round bullet neither deflects nor alters its
form, but it cuts through intervening branches and goes direct to its
aim, breaking bones and keeping a straight course through the animal.
This means death.

At the same time it must be remembered that a '577 rifle may be enabled
to perform wonders by adapting the material of the bullet to the purpose
specially desired. No soft-skinned animal should be shot with a hardened
bullet, and no hard-skinned animal should be shot with a soft bullet.

You naturally wish to kill your animal neatly--to double it up upon the
spot. This you will seldom or never accomplish with a very hard bullet
and a heavy charge of powder, as the high velocity will drive the hard
projectile so immediately through the animal that it receives no
striking energy, and is accordingly unaware of a fatal wound that it may
have received, simply because it has not sustained a shock upon the
impact of a bullet which has passed completely through its body.

To kill a thin-skinned animal neatly, such as a tiger, lion, large deer,
etc. etc., the bullet should be pure lead, unmixed with any other metal.
This will flatten to a certain degree immediately upon impact, and it
will continue to expand as it meets with resistance in passing through
the tough muscles of a large animal, until it assumes the shape of a
fully developed mushroom, which, after an immense amount of damage in
its transit, owing to its large diameter, will remain fixed beneath the
skin upon the side opposite to its place of entry. This bestows the
entire striking energy of the projectile, and the animal succumbs to the
tremendous shock, which it would not have felt had the bullet passed
through, carrying on its striking energy until stopped by some other
object beyond.

I must repeat that although gunmakers object to the use of pure lead for
rifle bullets, upon the plea that lead will form a coating upon the
inner surface of the barrel, and that more accurate results will be
obtained in target practice by the use of hardened metal, the argument
does not apply to sporting practice. You seldom fire more than half a
dozen shots from each barrel during the day, and the rifle is well
cleaned each evening upon your return to camp. The accuracy with a pure
leaden bullet is quite sufficient for the comparatively short ranges
necessitated by game-shooting. The arguments of leading the barrel,
etc., cannot be supported, and the result is decidedly in favour of pure
lead for all soft-skinned animals.

The elephant requires not only a special rifle, but the strongest
ammunition that can be used without injury to the shooter by recoil. It
is impossible to advocate any particular size of rifle, as it must
depend upon the strength of the possessor. As a rule I do not approve of
shells, as they are comparatively useless if of medium calibre, and can
be only effective when sufficiently large to contain a destructive
bursting charge. I have tried several varieties of shells with
unsatisfactory results, excepting the half-pounder, which contained a
burst bursting charge of 8 drams of the finest grained powder.

This pattern was my own invention, as I found by experience that the
general defect of shells was the too immediate explosion upon impact.
This would cause extensive damage to the surface, but would fail in
penetration.

Picrate of potash was at one time supposed to combine an enormous
explosive power with perfect safety in carriage, as the detonating
shells were proof against the blow of a hammer, and would only explode
upon impact through the extreme velocity of their discharge from a
rifle-barrel. These were useless against an elephant, as they had no
power of penetration, and the shell destroyed itself by bursting upon
the hard skin. I tried these shells against trees, but although the bark
would be shattered over an extensive area, upon every occasion the
projectile failed to penetrate the wood, as it had ceased to exist upon
explosion on the surface.

My half-pound shell was exceedingly simple. A cast-iron bottle, similar
in shape to a German seltzer-water, formed the core, around which the
lead was cast. The neck of the iron bottle projected through the pointed
cone of the projectile, and formed a nipple to receive the
percussion-cap. In external appearance the shell was lead, the iron
bottle being concealed within. Half an ounce of the finest grained
powder was inserted through the nipple by means of a small funnel; this
formed the bursting charge. The cap was only adjusted previous to
loading, as a necessary precaution. This half-pound shell was propelled
by a charge of 16 drams of coarse-grained powder.

I never fired this rifle without killing the animal, but the weapon
could not be claimed as a pleasant companion, the recoil being terrific.
The arrangement of the cap upon a broad-mouthed nipple prevented the
instantaneous explosion that would have taken place with a picrate of
potash shell. A fraction of a second was required to explode the cap
upon impact, and for the cap to ignite the bursting charge; this allowed
sufficient time for the shell to penetrate to the centre of an elephant
before the complete ignition had taken place. The destruction occasioned
by the half-ounce of powder confined within the body of an elephant may
be imagined.

I tried this shell at the forehead of a hippopotamus, which was an
admirable test of penetration before bursting. It went through the
brain, knocked out the back of the skull, and exploded within the neck,
completely destroying the vertebrae of the spine, which were reduced to
pulp, and perforating a tunnel blackened with gunpowder several feet in
length, along which I could pass my arm to the shoulder. The terminus of
the tunnel contained small fragments of lead and iron, pieces of which
were found throughout the course of the explosion.

The improvements in modern rifles will, within the next half-century, be
utterly destructive to the African elephant, which is unprotected by
laws in the absence of all government. For many ages these animals have
contended with savage man in unremitting warfare, but the lance and
arrow have been powerless to exterminate, and the natural sagacity of
the elephant has been sufficient to preserve it from wholesale slaughter
among pitfalls and other snares. The heavy breechloading rifle in the
hands of experienced hunters is a weapon which nothing can withstand,
and the elephants will be driven far away into the wilderness of an
interior where they will be secure from the improved fire-arms of our
modern civilisation.

It is much to be regretted that no system has been organised in Africa
for capturing and training the wild elephants, instead of harrying them
to destruction. In a country where beasts of burden are unknown, as in
equatorial Africa, it appears incredible that the power and the
intelligence of the elephant have been completely ignored. The ancient
coins of Carthage exhibit the African elephant, which in those remote
days was utilised by the Carthaginians; but a native of Africa, if of
the Negro type, will never tame an animal, he only destroys.

When we consider the peculiar power that an elephant possesses for
swimming long distances, and for supporting long marches under an
enormous weight, we are tempted to condemn the apathy even of European
settlers in Africa, who have hitherto ignored the capabilities of this
useful creature. The chief difficulty of African commerce is the lack of
transport. The elephant is admirably adapted by his natural habits for
travelling through a wild country devoid of roads. He can wade through
unbridged streams, or swim the deepest rivers (without a load), and he
is equally at home either on land or water. His carrying power for
continued service would be from 12 to 14 cwts.; thus a single elephant
would convey about 1300 lbs. of ivory in addition to the weight of the
pad. The value of one load would be about 5oo pounds. At the present
moment such an amount of ivory would employ twenty-six carriers; but as
these are generally slaves which can be sold at the termination of the
journey, they might be more profitable than the legitimate transport by
an elephant.

Although the male elephant will carry a far greater load than the
female, through its superior size and strength, it would be dangerous to
manage upon a long journey should it take place during the period, of
"must." I have heard the suggestion that an elephant should be
castrated, as the operation would affect the temper of the animal and
relieve it from the irritation of the "must" period; but such an
operation would be impossible, as the elephant is peculiarly formed,
and, unlike other animals, it has neither scrotum nor testicles
externally. These are situated within the body, and could not be reached
by surgery.

It is well known that the entire males of many domestic animals are
naturally savage. The horse, bull, boar, and the park-fed stag are all
uncertain in their tempers and may be pronounced unsafe; but the male
elephant, although dangerous to a stranger and treacherous to his
attendants, combines an extraordinary degree of cowardice with his
natural ferocity. A few months ago I witnessed a curious example of this
combination in the elephant's character. A magnificent specimen had been
lent to me by the Commissariat Department at Jubbulpur; this was a high
caste bull elephant named Bisgaum that was well known as bad-tempered,
but was supposed to be courageous. He had somewhat tarnished his
reputation during the last season by turning tail upon a tiger that
rushed out of dense bush and killed a coolie within a few yards of his
trunk; but this momentary panic was excused, and the blame was thrown
upon the mahout. The man was dismissed, and a first-rate Punjaubi driver
was appointed in his stead. This man assured me that the elephant was
dependable; I accordingly accepted him, and he was ordered to carry the
howdah throughout the expedition.

In a very short experience we discovered the necessity of giving Bisgaum
a wide berth, as he would fling out his trunk with extreme quickness to
strike a person within his reach, and he would kick out sharply with his
hind leg whenever a native ventured to approach his rear. He took a
fancy to me, as I fed him daily with sugar-canes, jaggery, and native
chupatties (cakes), which quickly established an understanding between
us; but I always took the precaution of standing by his side instead of
in his front, and of resting my left hand upon his tusk while I fed him
with the right. Every morning at daylight he was brought to the tent
with Demoiselle (the female elephant), and they both received from my
own hands the choice bits which gained their confidence.

My suspicions were first aroused by his peculiar behaviour upon an
occasion when we had killed two tigers; these were young animals, and
although large, there was no difficulty in arranging them upon the pad,
upon which they were secured by ropes, when the elephant kneeling down
was carefully loaded. Hardly had Bisgaum risen to his feet, when,
conscious of the character of the animals upon his back, and, I suppose,
not quite certain that life was actually extinct, he trumpeted a shrill
scream, and shook his immense carcase like a wet dog that has just
landed from the water. This effect was so violent that one tiger was
thrown some yards to the right, while the other fell to the ground on
the left, and without a moment's warning, the elephant charged the
lifeless body, sent it flying by a kick with his fore foot, and
immediately proceeded to dance a war-dance, kicking with his hind legs
to so great a height that he could have reached a tall man's hat. A
vigorous application of the driving-hook by the mahout, who was a
powerful man, at length changed the scene, and the elephant at once
desisted from his attack upon the dead tiger, and rushed madly upon one
side, where he stood nervously looking at the enemy as though he
expected it would show signs of life.

This did not look promising for an encounter with a live tiger, as it
would have been absolutely impossible to shoot from that elephant's
back.

A short time after this occurrence, when upon my usual reconnaissance
through the jungles in the neighbourhood of the camp, I came upon the
fresh tracks of a large tiger close to the banks of the Bearmi river,
and I gave the necessary instructions that a buffalo should be tied up
as a bait that same evening.

Early on the following morning the news was brought by the shikaris that
the buffalo had been killed, and dragged into a neighbouring ravine. As
the river was close by, there could be no doubt that the tiger would
have drunk water after feasting on the carcase, and would be lying
asleep somewhere in the immediate neighbourhood.

The mucharns (platforms in trees) had already been prepared in positions
where the tiger was expected to pass when driven, as he would make for
the forest-covered hills which rose within half a mile of the river.

The spot was within twenty minutes of the camp; the elephants were both
ready, with simple pads, as the howdah was ill-adapted for a forest; and
we quickly started.

Three mucharns had been prepared; these were about 100 yards apart in a
direct line which guarded a narrow glade between the jungle upon the
river's bank and the main body of the forest at the foot of a range of
red-sandstone hills; these were covered to the summit with trees already
leafless from the drought.

The mucharn which fell to my share was that upon the right flank when
facing the beat; this was in the open glade opposite a projecting corner
of the jungle. On the left, about 70 yards distant, was a narrow strip
of bush connected with the jungle, about 4 yards wide, which terminated
in a copse about 30 yards in diameter; beyond this was open glade for
about 40 yards width until it bounded the main forest at the foot of the
hill-range.

We took our places, and I was assured by the shikaris that the tiger
would probably break covert exactly in my front.

It is most uncomfortable for a European to remain squatted in a mucharn
for any length of time; the limbs become stiffened, and the cramped
position renders good shooting anything but certain. I have a simple
wooden turnstool, which enables me to shoot in any required direction;
this is most comfortable.

I had adjusted my stool upon a thick mat to prevent it from slipping,
and having settled myself firmly, I began to examine the position to
form an opinion concerning the most likely spot for the tiger to emerge
from the jungle.

The beat had commenced, and the shouts and yells, of a long line of 150
men were gradually becoming more distinct. Several peacocks ran across
the open glade: these birds are always the forerunners of other animals,
as they are the first to retreat.

Presently I heard a rustle in the jungle, and I observed the legs of a
sambur deer, which, having neared the edge, now halted to listen to the
beaters before venturing to break from the dense covert. The beaters
drew nearer, and a large doe sambur, instead of rushing quickly forward,
walked slowly into the open, and stood within 10 yards of me upon the
glade. She waited there for several minutes, and then, as if some
suspicion had suddenly crossed her mind, gave two or three convulsive
bounds and dashed back to the same covert from which she had approached.

It struck me that the sambur had got the wind of an enemy, otherwise she
would not have rushed back in such sudden haste; she could not have
scented me, as I was 10 or 12 feet above the ground, and the breeze was
aslant . . . . Then, if a tiger were in the jungle, why should she dash
back into the same covert ?

I was reflecting upon these subjects, and looking out sharp towards my
left and front, when I gently turned upon my stool to the right; there
was the tiger himself! who had already broken from the jungle about 75
yards from my position. He was slowly jogging along as though just
disturbed (possibly by the sambur), keeping close to the narrow belt of
bushes already described. There was a foot-path from the open glade
which pierced the belt; I therefore waited until he should cross this
favourable spot. I fired with the '577 rifle just as he was passing
across the dusty track. I saw the dust fly from the ground upon the
other side as the hardened bullet passed like lightning through his
flank, but I felt that I was a little too far behind his shoulder, as
his response to the shot was a bound at full gallop forwards into the
small clump of jungle that projected into the grassy open. My turnstool
was handy, and I quickly turned to the right, waiting with the left-hand
barrel ready for his reappearance upon the grass-land in the interval
between the main jungle and the narrow patch. There was no time to lose,
for the tiger appeared in a few seconds, dashing out of the jungle, and
flying over the open at tremendous speed. This was about 110 yards
distant; aiming about 18 inches in his front, I fired. A short but
spasmodic roar and a sudden convulsive twist of his body showed plainly
that he was well hit, but with unabated speed he gained the main forest
which was not more than 40 yards distant. If that had been a soft leaden
bullet he would have rolled over to the shot, but I had seen the dust
start from the ground when I fired, and I knew that the hard bullet had
passed through without delivering the shock required.

The beaters and shikaris now arrived, and having explained the incident,
we examined the ground for tracks, and quickly found the claw-marks
which were deeply indented in the parched surface of fine sward. We
followed these tracks cautiously into the jungle. Our party consisted of
Colonel Lugard, the Hon. D. Leigh, myself, and two experienced shikaris.
Tiger-shooting is always an engrossing sport, but the lively excitement
is increased when you follow a wounded tiger upon foot. We now slowly
advanced upon the track, which faintly showed the sharp claws where the
tiger had alighted in every bound. The jungle was fairly open, as the
surface was stony, and the trees for want of moisture in a rocky soil
had lost their leaves; we could thus see a considerable distance upon
all sides. In this manner we advanced about 100 yards without finding a
trace of blood, and I could see that some of my people doubted the fact
of the tiger being wounded. I felt certain that he was mortally hit, and
I explained to my men that the hard bullet would make so clean a hole
through his body that he would not bleed externally until his inside
should be nearly full of blood. Suddenly a man cried "koon" (blood),
and he held up a large dried leaf of the teak-tree upon which was a
considerable red splash: almost immediately after this we not only came
upon a continuous line of blood, but we halted at a place where the
animal had lain down; this was a pool of blood, proving that the tiger
would not be far distant.

I now sent for the elephants, as I would not permit the shikaris to
advance farther upon foot. The big tusker Bisgaum arrived, and giving my
Paradox gun to my trustworthy shikari Kerim Bux, he mounted the pad of
that excitable beast to carry out my orders, "to follow the blood until
he should find the tiger, after which he was to return to us." We were
now on the top of a small hill within an extensive forest range, and
directly in front the ground suddenly dipped, forming a V-shaped dell,
which in the wet season was the bed of a considerable torrent. It struck
me that if the tiger were still alive he would steal away along the
bottom of the rocky watercourse; therefore, before the elephant should
advance, and perhaps disturb him, we should take up a position on the
right to protect the nullah or torrent-bed; this plan was accordingly
carried out.

We had not been long in our respective positions when a shot from the
direction taken by the elephant, followed instantly by a short roar,
proved that the tiger had been discovered, and that he was still alive.
My female elephant Demoiselle, upon hearing the sound, trembled beneath
me with intense excitement, while the other female would have bolted had
she not been sharply reminded by the heavy driving-hook. Several shots
were now fired in succession, and after vainly endeavouring to discover
the whereabouts of the tiger, I sent Demoiselle to obtain the news while
we kept guard over the ravine. No tiger having appeared, I stationed
natives in trees to watch the nullah while we ascended the hill on foot,
directing our course through the forest to the place from whence the
shots had been fired. We had hardly advanced 80 yards before we found
both the elephants on the top of the steep shoulder of the hill, where
several of our men were upon the boughs of surrounding trees. Bisgaum
was in a state of wild excitement, and Kerim Bux explained that it was
impossible to shoot from his back, as he could not be kept quiet. Where
was the tiger? That was the question. "Close to us, Sahib!" was the
reply; but on foot we could see nothing, owing to high withered grass
and bush. I clambered upon the back of the refractory Bisgaum,
momentarily expecting him to bolt away like a locomotive engine, and
from that elevated position I was supposed to see the tiger, which was
lying in the bottom of the ravine about 100 yards distant. There were so
many small bushes and tufts of yellow grass that I could not distinguish
the form for some minutes; at length my eyes caught the object. I had
been looking for orange and black stripes, therefore I had not noticed
black and white, the belly being uppermost, as the animal was lying upon
its back, evidently dying.

The side of the rocky hill was so steep and slippery that the elephants
could not descend; I therefore changed my steed and mounted Demoiselle,
from the back of which I fired several shots at the tiger until life
appeared to be extinct. The ground was so unfavourable that I would not
permit any native to approach near enough to prove that the animal was
quite dead. I therefore instructed Bisgaum's mahout to make a detour to
the right until he could descend with his elephant into the flat bottom
of the watercourse, he was then to advance cautiously until near enough
to see whether the tiger breathed. At the same time I rode Demoiselle
carefully as near as we could safely descend among the rocks to a
distance of about 40 yards; it was so steep that the elephant was
impossible to turn. From this point of vantage I soon perceived
Bisgaum's bulky form advancing up the dry torrent-bed. The rocks were a
perfectly flat red sandstone, which in many places resembled artificial
pavement; this was throughout the district a peculiar geological
feature, the surface of the stone being covered with ripple-marks, and
upon this easy path Bisgaum now approached the body of the tiger, which
lay apparently dead exactly in his front.

Suddenly the elephant halted when about 15 yards from the object, which
had never moved. I have seen wild savages frenzied by the exciting
war-dance, but I never witnessed such an instance of hysterical fury as
that exhibited by Bisgaum. It is impossible to describe the elephantine
antics of this frantic animal; he kicked right and left with his hind
legs alternately, with the rapidity of a horse; trumpeting and
screaming, he threw his trunk in the air, twisting it about, and shaking
his immense head, until, having lashed himself into sufficient rage, he
made a desperate charge at the supposed defunct enemy, with the
intention of treating the body in a similar manner to that a few days
previous. But the tiger was not quite dead and although he could not
move to get away, he seized with teeth and claws the hind leg of the
maddened elephant, who had clumsily overrun him in the high excitement,
instead of kicking the body with a fore foot as he advanced.

The scene was now most interesting. We were close spectators looking
down upon the exhibition as though upon an arena. I never saw such fury
in an elephant; the air was full of stones and dust, as he kicked with
such force that the tiger for the moment was lost to view in the
tremendous struggle, and being kicked away from his hold, with one of
his long fangs broken short off to the gum, he lay helpless before his
huge antagonist, who, turning quickly round, drove his long tusks
between the tiger's shoulders, and crushed the last spark of life from
his tenacious adversary.

This was a grand scene, and I began to think there was some real pluck
in Bisgaum after all, although there was a total want of discipline; but
just as I felt inclined to applaud, the victorious elephant was seized
with a sudden panic, and turning tail, he rushed along the bottom of the
watercourse at the rate of 20 miles an hour, and disappeared in the
thorny jungle below at a desperate pace that threatened immediate
destruction to his staunch mahout. Leaving my men to arrange a litter
with poles and cross-bars to carry the tiger home, I followed the course
of Bisgaum upon Demoiselle, expecting every minute to see the body of
his mahout stretched upon the ground.

At length, after about half a mile passed in anxiety, we discovered
Bisgaum and his mahout both safe upon an open plain; the latter torn and
bleeding from countless scratches while rushing through the thorny
jungle.

On the following day the elephant's leg was much swollen, although the
wounds appeared to be very slight. It is probable that a portion of the
broken tooth remained in the flesh, as the leg festered, and became so
bad that the elephant could not travel for nearly a fortnight
afterwards. The mahouts are very obstinate, and insist upon native
medicines, their famous lotion being a decoction of Mhowa blossoms,
which in my opinion aggravated the inflammation of the wound.

I returned Bisgaum to the Commissariat stables at Jubbulpur directly
that he could march, as he was too uncontrollable for sporting purposes.
Had any person been upon his back during his stampede he would have been
swept off by the branches and killed; the mahout, sitting low upon his
neck, could accommodate his body to avoid the boughs.

The use of the elephant in India is so closely associated with
tiger-shooting that I shall commence the next chapter with the tiger.



CHAPTER V

THE TIGER

THERE is no animal that has exercised the imagination of mankind to the
same degree as the tiger. It has been the personification of ferocity
and unsparing cruelty.

In Indian life the tiger is so closely associated with the elephant (as
the latter is used in pursuit) that I select this animal in sequence to
the former, from which in the ideas of sporting Indians it is almost
inseparable.

It is necessary to commence the description of the tiger with its birth.
The female rarely produces more than three, and generally only two.
These arrive at maturity in about two years.

There is a considerable difference in the size of the male and female. I
have both measured and weighed tigers, and I have found a great
difference in their proportions, such as may be seen not only in many
varieties of animals, but also in human beings; it is therefore
difficult to decide upon the actual average tiger, as they vary in
separate localities, according to the quantity of wild animals in the
jungles which constitute their food. If the tiger has been born in
jungles abounding with wild pigs and other animals, he will have been
well fed since the day of his birth, therefore he will be a
well-developed animal.

A well-grown tigress may weigh an average of 240 lbs. live weight. A
very fine tiger will weigh 440 lbs., but if very fat, the same tiger
would weigh 500 lbs. I have no doubt there may be tigers that exceed
this by 50 lbs., but I speak according to my experience.

The length of a tiger will depend upon the system of measurement. I
always carry a tape with me, and I measure them before they are skinned,
by laying the animal upon the ground in a straight line, and not
allowing it to be stretched by pulling at the head or tail, but taking
it naturally as it lies, measuring from nose to tip of tail. I have
found that a tiger of 9 feet 8 inches is about 2 inches above the
average. The same tiger may be stretched to measure 10 feet.

No person who examines skins only can form any idea of the true
proportions of a tiger. The hide, when stripped from a tiger of 9 feet 7
inches, weighs 45 lbs. if the animal is bulky. The head, skinned, weighs
25 lbs. These weights are taken from an animal which weighed 437 lbs.
exclusive of the lost blood, which was quite a gallon, estimated at 10
lbs. This would have brought the weight to 447 lbs. The hide of this
tiger, which measured 9 feet 7 inches when upon the animal, was 11 feet
4 inches in length when cured. I have measured many tigers, and the
skins are always stretched to a ridiculous length during the process of
curing; these would utterly mislead any naturalist who had not practical
experience of the live animal.

The tiger of zoological gardens is a long lithe creature with little
flesh, and, from the lack of exercise, the muscles are badly developed.
Such a specimen affords a poor example of the grand animal in its native
jungles, whose muscles are almost ponderous in their development from
the continual exertion in nightly rambles over long distances, and in
mortal struggles when wrestling with its prey. A well-fed tiger is by no
means a slim figure, but on the contrary it is exceedingly bulky, broad
in the shoulders, back, and loins, with an extraordinary girth of limbs,
especially in the fore-arm and wrist. The muscles are tough and hard,
and there are two peculiar bones unattached to the skeleton frame; these
are situated in the flesh of either shoulder, apparently to afford extra
cohesion of the parts, resulting in additional strength when striking a
blow or wrestling with a heavy animal.

There is a great difference in the habits of tigers; some exist upon the
game of the jungles, others prey specially upon the flocks and herds
belonging to the villagers; the latter are generally exceedingly heavy
and fat. A few are designated "man-eaters"; these are sometimes
naturally ferocious, and having attacked a human being, they may have
devoured the body and thus have acquired a taste for human flesh; or
they may have been wounded upon more than one occasion and have learnt
to regard man as a natural enemy; but more frequently the man-eater is a
wary old tiger, or more probably a tigress, that, having haunted the
neighbourhood of villages and carried off some unfortunate woman when
gathering firewood or the wild products of the jungles, has discovered
that it is far easier to kill a native than to hunt for the scarce
jungle game; the animal therefore adopts the pursuit of man, and seldom
attempts to molest the natives' cattle.

A professed man-eater is the most wary of animals, and is very difficult
to kill, not because it is superior in strength, but through its extreme
caution and cunning, which renders its discovery a work of long labour
and patient search. An average native does not form a very hearty meal.
If a woman, she will have more flesh than a man about the buttocks,
which is the portion both in animals and human beings which the tiger
first devours. The maneater will seize an unsuspecting person by the
neck, and will then drag the body to some retreat in which it can devour
its prey in undisturbed security. Having consumed the hind-quarters,
thighs, and the more fleshy portions, it will probably leave the body,
and will never return again to the carcase, but will seek a fresh
victim, perhaps at some miles' distance, in the neighbourhood of another
village. Their cautious habits render it almost impossible to destroy a
cunning man-eater, as it avoids all means of detection. In this
peculiarity the ordinary man-eating tiger differs from all others, as
the cattle-killer is almost certain to return on the following night to
the body which it only partially devoured after the first attack. If the
hunter has the taste and patience for night shooting, he will construct
a hiding-place within 10 yards of the dead body. This should be arranged
before noon, in order that no noise should disturb the vicinity towards
evening, when the tiger may be expected to return. A tree is not a
favourable stand for night shooting, as the foliage overhead darkens the
sight of the rifle. Three poles of about 5 inches diameter and 12 feet
in length should be sunk as a triangle, the thickest ends placed 2 feet
in the ground. The poles should be 4 feet apart, and when firmly
inserted will represent a scaffolding 10 feet high. Bars and diagonal
pieces must be firmly lashed to prevent the structure from swaying.
Within a foot of the top three strong cross-bars will be lashed, to
support a corduroy arrangement of perfectly straight level bars, quite
close together to form a platform. A thickly folded rug will carpet the
rough surface, upon which the watcher will sit upon a low turnstool that
will enable him to rest in comfort, and turn without noise in any
required direction. A bamboo or other straight stick will be secured as
a rail around the platform, upon which some branches may be so arranged
as to form a screen that will conceal the watcher from the view of an
approaching tiger. This arrangement is called a "mucharn."

When a tiger is driven before beaters it seldom or never looks upwards,
but merely regards the surface as it advances; but when approaching a
"kill" (the term applied to the animal which has been killed) the tiger
is exceedingly cautious, and surveys everything connected with the
locality before it ventures to recommence the feast. Even then, when
assured of safety, it seldom eats the carcase where it lies, but seizing
it by the throat, it drags the prey some 15 or 20 yards from the spot
before it indulges in the meal. I have already described that the first
meal consists of the buttocks and hindquarters; the second visit is
devoted to the forequarters, after which but little remains for the
vultures and jackals.

It is essential that the night watcher should be raised about 10 feet
above the ground, otherwise the tiger would probably obtain his scent.

Night shooting is not attractive to myself, and I very seldom have
indulged in such wearisome shikar. There is no particular satisfaction
in sitting for hours in a cramped position, with mosquitoes stinging you
from all directions, while your eyes are straining through the darkness,
transforming every shadow into the expected game. Even should it appear,
unless the moon is bright you will scarcely define the animal. I have
heard well-authenticated accounts of persons who have patiently watched
until they fell asleep from sheer weariness, and when they awoke, the
dead bullock was no longer there, the tiger having dragged it away
without disturbing the tired watcher. There are several methods of
rendering the muzzle-sights of the rifle visible in partial darkness. A
simple and effective arrangement is by a piece of thick white paper.
This should be cut into a point and fastened upon the barrel with a
piece of beeswax or shoemaker's wax, in addition to being tied with
strong waxed packthread.

If a bright starlight night and there is no foliage above the rifle, the
white paper will be distinctly seen, especially if the light is behind
the shoulder. A piece of lime made into thick paste, and stuck upon the
muzzle-sight, is frequently used by native hunters; but if it is at
hand, there is nothing so effective as luminous paint; this can be
purchased in stoppered bottles and will last for years. A small supply
would be always useful in an outfit.

A man-eating tiger requires peculiar caution, not only lest it should
observe the presence of the hunter, but he must remember that if upon
the ground he himself becomes a bait for this exceedingly stealthy
animal, which can approach without the slightest noise, and attack
without giving any notice of its presence. A curious example of this
danger was given a few years ago in the Nagpur district. A tigress had
killed so many people that a large reward was offered for her
destruction; she had killed and dragged away a native, but being
disturbed, she had left the body without eating any portion. The
shikaris considered that she would probably return to her prey during
the night, if left undisturbed upon the spot where she had forsaken it.
There were no trees, nor any timber that was suitable for the
construction of a mucharn; it was accordingly resolved that four deep
holes should be dug, forming the corners of a square, the body lying in
the centre. Each hole was to be occupied by a shikari with his
matchlock. The watchers took their positions. Nothing came; until at
length the moon went down, and the night was dark. The men were afraid
to get out of their hiding-places to walk home through the jungles that
were infested by the man-eater; they remained in their holes, and some
of them fell asleep.

When daylight broke, three of the shikaris issued from their positions,
but the fourth had disappeared; his hole was empty! A few yards distant,
his matchlock was discovered lying upon the ground, and upon the dusty
surface were the tracks of the tiger, and the sweeping trace where the
body had been dragged as the man-eater carried it along. Upon following
up the track, the remains of the unlucky shikari were discovered, a
considerable portion having been devoured; but the tigress had
disappeared. This cunning brute had won the game, and she was not killed
until twelve months afterwards, although many persons devoted themselves
to her pursuit.

Many incredible stories have been told concerning the power of a tiger
in CARRYING away his prey, and I have heard it positively stated by
persons who should have known better, that a tiger can carry off a
native cow simply through the strength of the jaws and neck. This is
ridiculous, as the height of the cow exceeds that of the tiger,
therefore a portion of the body must drag upon the ground. The cattle of
India are exceedingly small, and are generally lean, the weight of an
ordinary cow would hardly exceed 350 or 400 lbs.; as an average male
tiger weighs about the same, it can of course drag its own weight by
lifting the body partially in its mouth, and thus relieving the friction
upon the ground. In this manner it is astonishing to see the strength
exerted in pulling and lifting a dead bullock over projecting roots of
trees, rocky torrent-beds, and obstructions that would appear to be
insurmountable; but it is absurd to suppose that a tiger can actually
lift and carry a full-grown cow or bullock in its jaws without leaving a
trace of the drag upon the surface.

Many persons when in pursuit of tigers are accustomed to tie up a small
buffalo of four or six months old for bait; the natives will naturally
supply the poorest specimen of their herds, unless it is specially
selected; therefore it may be quite possible for a large male tiger to
carry so small an animal without allowing any portion of the body
(excepting the legs) to drag upon the ground. As a rule, the tiger will
not attempt to carry, but it will lift and pull simultaneously if the
body is heavy.

The attack of a large tiger is terrific, and the effect may be well
imagined of an animal of such vast muscular proportions, weighing
between 400 and 500 lbs., springing with great velocity, and exerting
its momentum at the instant that it seizes a bullock by the neck. It is
supposed by the natives that the tiger, when well fastened upon the
crest, by fixing its teeth in the back of the neck at the first onset,
continues its spring so as to pass over the animal attacked. This
wrenches the neck suddenly round, and as the animal struggles, the
dislocation is easily effected. The tiger then changes the hold to
underneath the throat, and drags the body to some convenient retreat,
where the meal may be commenced in security. With very few exceptions
the tiger breaks the neck of every animal it kills. Some persons have
imagined that this is done by a blow of the paw, but this is an error.
The tiger does not usually strike (like the lion), but it merely seizes
with its claws, and uses them to clutch firm hold, and to lacerate its
victim. I have seen several examples of the tiger's attack upon man, and
in no instance has the individual suffered from the shock of any blow;
the tiger has seized, and driven deeply its claws into the flesh, and
with this tremendous purchase it has held the victim, precisely as the
hands of a man would clutch a prisoner; at the same time it has taken a
firm hold with its teeth, and either killed its victim by a crunch of
the jaws, or broken the shoulder-blade. In attacking man the tiger
generally claws the head, and at the same moment it fixes its teeth upon
the shoulder. An Indian is generally slight, and shallow in the chest,
therefore the wide-spread jaws can include both chest and back when
seized in the tiger's mouth. I have seen men who were thus attacked, and
each claw has cut down to the skull, leaving clean incisions from the
brow across the forehead and over the scalp, terminating at the back of
the neck. These cuts were as neatly drawn across the skull as though
done by a sharp pruning-knife; but the wounded men recovered from the
clawing; the fatal wound was the bite, which through the back and chest
penetrated to the lungs.

It is surprising that so few casualties occur when we consider the risks
that are run by unprotected natives wandering at all seasons through the
jungles, or occupied in their daily pursuits, exposed to the attacks of
wild animals. The truth is that the tiger seldom attacks to actually
kill, unless it is driven, or wounded in a hunt. It will frequently
charge with a short roar if suddenly disturbed, but it does not intend
to charge home, and a shout from a native will be sufficient to turn it
aside; it will then dash forward and disappear, probably as glad to lose
sight of the man as he is at his escape from danger. Of course there are
many exceptions when naturally savage tigers, without being man-eaters,
attack and destroy unoffending natives without the slightest
provocation; upon such occasions they leave the body uneaten, neither do
they return to it again.

Although the tiger belongs to the genus Felis, it differs from the cat
in its peculiar fondness for water. In the hot season the animal is
easily discovered, as it invariably haunts the banks of rivers, when all
the brooks are dry and the tanks have disappeared through evaporation.
The tiger loves to wallow in shallow water, and to roll upon the dry
sand after a muddy bath; it will swim large rivers, and in the
Brahmaputra, where reedy and grassy islands interrupt the channel in a
bed of several miles' width, the tigers travel over considerable
distances during the night, swimming from island to island, and
returning to the mainland if no prey is to be found during the night's
ramble.

The tiger is by no means fond of extreme heat; it is found in northern
China, Manchuria, and the Corea, where the winters are severe. In those
climates during winter the skin is very beautiful, consisting of thick
fur instead of hair, and the tail is comparatively bushy. Well-preserved
skins of that variety are worth 20 pounds apiece and are prized as
rarities. In the hot season of India the tiger is by no means happy: it
is a thirsty animal, and being nocturnal, it quickly becomes fatigued by
the sun's heat, and the burning surface of the soil if obliged to
retreat before a line of beaters. The pads of the feet are scorched by
treading upon heated sandy or stony ground, and the animal is easily
managed in a beat by those who are thoroughly experienced in its habits,
although during the winter season, when water is abundant in all the
numerous nullahs and pools, there is no animal more difficult to
discover than the tiger. It may be easily imagined that the dense green
foliage of Indian jungles renders all objects difficult to perceive
distinctly, but the striped skin of a tiger harmonizes in a peculiar
manner with dry sticks, yellowish tufts of grass, and the remains of
burnt stumps, which are so frequently the family of colours that form
the surroundings of the animal. In this covert the tiger with an almost
noiseless tread can approach or retreat, and be actually within a few
yards of man without being seen. Although a ferocious beast, it is most
sensitive to danger, and the slightest noise will induce it to alter the
direction of its course when driven before a line of beaters. Its power
of scent is excellent, therefore it is always advisable if possible to
arrange that the beaters shall advance down wind. If they do, the tiger
may be generally managed so adroitly that it will be driven in the
required direction; but if the beaters are travelling up the wind, the
tiger must necessarily follow the same course, and it will probably
obtain the scent of the guns that are in positions to intercept it, in
which case it will assuredly dash back through the line of beaters, and
escape from the beat.

In the hot season very few trees retain their leaves, and the jungles
that were impervious screens during the cooler months become absolutely
naked; an animal can then be discerned at 100 yards' distance. The
surface of the ground is then covered with dried and withered leaves,
which have become so crisp from the extreme heat that they crackle when
trod upon like broken glass. It will be readily understood that any form
of shooting excepting driving is quite impossible under these
conditions, as no person could approach any animal on foot owing to the
noise occasioned by treading upon the withered leaves.

The habits of the tiger being thoroughly understood, it becomes
necessary under all circumstances to employ the village shikari. This
man is generally more or less ignorant and obstinate, but he is sure to
know his own locality and the peculiar customs of the local tiger. It is
one of the mysterious characteristics of this animal that it invariably
selects particular spots in which it will lay up; to these secure
retreats it will retire; therefore, should a fresh track be discovered
upon the sandy bed of a nullah or upon a dusty footpath in the jungles,
it may be safely inferred that the tiger is lying in one or other of its
accustomed haunts. The village shikari will quickly determine from what
direction the tiger has arrived; he will then suggest the probable route
that the animal will take whenever it may be disturbed.

Should the tiger be killed, another will occupy its place a few months
later, and this will assuredly assume the same habits as its
predecessor; it will frequent the same haunts, lay up in the same spots,
and drink at the same places; although it may have never associated with
or even seen the tiger which formerly occupied the same locality.

I have already described the keen power of scent possessed by this wary
animal, which necessitates extreme caution, and the placing of the guns
in positions elevated about 10 feet above the ground. It is seldom of
any use to drive jungles upon speculation, although it not unfrequently
happens, where tigers are plentiful, that when driving for deer the
grander game unexpectedly appears, and presents itself suddenly before
the astonished hunter. The recognised system of tiger-hunting by driving
is as follows. We will say that the party of three may have arrived at a
village, after having received intimation that a native cow had been
carried off within the last few days. The first operation is to send
natives in all directions to look for tracks, and to discover the place
where the animal last drank.

At least two elephants should accompany the party, even though the thick
jungle country may be ill adapted for shooting from these useful
creatures. One of these should be, if possible, a really dependable
animal, that would advance steadily and quietly up to a wounded tiger.
The great danger of this branch of sport arrives when a tiger may have
been wounded, and it has to be tracked up on foot, and eventually beaten
out of the dense thorny cover of its retreat. A staunch elephant is then
indispensable, and the real excitement commences when the beaters are
sent for safety up the adjoining trees, and the hunter, absolutely
certain that the dangerous game, although invisible, is close before
him, advances calmly to the attack, knowing that the tiger will be ready
to spring upon the elephant the moment that they shall be vis-a-vis.

In the absence of any elephant, the pursuit of a wounded tiger by
following up the blood-track on foot is a work of extreme danger. The
native shikaris generally exhibit considerable hardihood, and, confident
in their activity, they ascend trees from which they have a clear view
in front for some 30 or 40 yards. They descend if the coast is clear,
cautiously advance, and then again they mount upon the branches of some
favourable tree and scan the ground before them. In this manner they
continue to approach until they at length discern the wounded animal. If
the hunter is clever at climbing, he may then take a steady shot from a
good elevation; but if not, he must take his chance, and knowing the
exact position of the tiger, he must endeavour to make certain of its
sudden death by placing a bullet either in the brain or the back of the
neck.

A newly arrived party, having heard that some native cow has been
carried off within a week, will make a reconnaissance of the surrounding
country upon their elephants, and will examine every watercourse for
tracks. We will suppose that after some hours of diligent search the
long-wished-for pugs or footmarks have been discovered. Now the science
of the chase must be exhibited, and the habits of the tiger carefully
considered. The first consideration will be the drinking-place. If the
middle of the dry season, say the beginning of May, the heat will be
intense, and the hot wind will feel as though it had passed over a
heated brick-kiln. The water will have entirely disappeared, unless a
river shall be permanent in the neighbourhood. It will be necessary to
procure two or perhaps three buffaloes to tie up in various positions
not far from water, as baits for the tiger during the hours of night,
when it will be wandering forth from its secure retreat and searching
for its expected prey. The buffaloes should be at least twelve months
old; I prefer them when eighteen months, as they are then heavy animals
and would afford two hearty meals, each sufficient to gorge the tiger to
an extent that, after drinking, would render it lazy and inclined to
sleep. Great care should be taken in the selection of these buffaloes.
The natives will assuredly offer their skinny and unhealthy animals: but
a tiger, unless nearly starved, will frequently refuse to attack a
miserable skeleton, and like ourselves it prefers a fat and appetising
attraction. It must be distinctly remembered that after the tiger has
devoured the hind-quarters of the animal it has killed, it requires a
deep draught of water; it is therefore necessary that the buffalo as
bait should be tied up somewhere within a couple of hundred yards of a
drinking-place, as the least distance; otherwise, instead of lying down
somewhere near the remains of its prey, it must wander to a great
distance to drink. The stomach, being full of flesh, will naturally
become distended with water, and the gorged tiger will not be in the
humour to undertake a return journey of perhaps a mile to watch over the
remains of its kill; it will therefore lie down in some thick covert
near the spot by the nullah where it recently drank, instead of
returning to repose in the neighbourhood of its recent victim. This will
throw out the calculations of the shikari, who would expect that the
tiger will be lying somewhere near the spot where it dragged the
buffalo. The beat will under such false conditions be arranged to
include an area in which the tiger is supposed to be asleep after its
great meal, but in reality it may be a mile or two away in some unknown
direction near the water. Great precaution is necessary in making all
preliminary arrangements. It is a common custom of native shikaris to
tie up a buffalo where four paths meet, as the tiger would be walking
along one of these during the night, and it could not help seeing the
alluring bait. I do not admire this plan, as, although the probability
is that the buffalo will be killed, there is every likelihood of
disturbance after the event, when natives would be passing along the
various routes. The slightest noise would alarm the tiger, and instead
of remaining quietly near the carcase, it would slink away and be no
more seen.

Natives are very inquisitive, and should the tiger have killed the bait,
and dragged the buffalo away to some deep nullah, the shikari and his
companion are often tempted to creep along the trace until they perhaps
see the tiger in the act of devouring the hind-quarters. This is quite
contrary to the rules of hunting, as the tiger is almost certain to
detect their presence if they are so near, in which case it is sure to
retreat to some undisturbed locality beyond the area of the beat.

There is constant disappointment in driving for tigers owing to the
stupidity or exaggerated zeal of the shikari; and if the hunter is
thoroughly experienced, it is far better that he should conduct the
operations personally.

Success depends upon many little details which may appear trivial, but
are nevertheless important. When a buffalo is tied up for bait, it must
be secured by the fetlock of a fore foot, and care must be taken that
the rope is sufficiently strong to prevent the buffalo from breaking
away; at the same time it must not be strong enough to prevent the tiger
from breaking it when the animal is killed, and the carcase is to be
dragged to the nearest nullah (or ravine). If the rope is too powerful,
the tiger cannot dispose of the body; it will therefore eat the
hind-quarters where it lies, and at once retreat to water, instead of
concealing the prey and lying down in the vicinity. In such a case the
remains of the body will be exposed to the gaze of vultures and jackals,
who will pick the bones clean in a few hours, and destroy all chance of
the tiger's return. When the dead body is concealed beneath dense bushes
in a deep ravine, the vultures cannot discover it, as they hunt by
sight, and the tiger has no anxiety respecting the security of its
capture; it will therefore sleep in peace within a short distance, until
awakened by the shouts of a line of beaters.

If the buffalo is tied with a rope around the neck, a tiger will
frequently refuse to molest it, as it fears a trap. I have seen
occasions when the tiger has walked round and round the buffalo, as
exhibited by the tracks upon the surface, but it has been afraid to make
its spring, being apprehensive of some hidden danger. I have also seen a
dead vulture lying close to the body of a buffalo, evidently killed by a
blow from the tiger's paw when trespassing upon the feast. It is a good
arrangement to secure both fetlocks of a buffalo with a piece of strong
cord about a foot or 16 inches apart, independently of the weaker cord
which ties the animal to either a stake or tree. Should the buffalo
break away during the night, it cannot wander far, as the bushes will
quickly anchor the rope which confines the fore legs; the tiger would
then assuredly attack the straying animal and kill it within the
jungles. In such a case the drive should take place without delay, as
the dead buffalo will certainly be hidden in the nearest convenient
spot, and the tiger will be somewhere in the neighbourhood.

During the hot season it will be advisable to defer the drive till about
IO A.M., at which time the tiger will be asleep. The mucharns or
watching-places in various trees should have been previously constructed
before the buffaloes were tied up in their different positions, to be
ready should the tiger kill one of the baits, and thus to avoid noise
during the construction. This is a matter of very great importance which
is frequently neglected by the native shikari, who postpones the
building of mucharns until the tiger shall have killed a buffalo. In
that case the noise of axes employed in chopping the wood necessary for
building the platforms is almost sure to alarm the tiger, who will
escape unseen, and the beat will take place in vain.

I never allow mucharns to be built by wood felled in the immediate
neighbourhood, but I have it prepared in camp, and transported by
coolies to the localities when required. By this method the greatest
silence may be observed, which is absolutely necessary to ensure a
successful drive.

In order to prepare these platforms, they should be laid upon the
ground, three long thick pieces to form a triangle, and cross-bars in
proportionate lengths. If the latter are straight and strong, from
sixteen to twenty will be necessary to complete a strong mucharn. It is
impossible to devote too much attention to the construction of these
watching-places. The natives are so light, and they are so comfortable
when squatting for hours in a position that would cramp a European, that
it is dangerous to accept the shikari's declaration when he reports that
everything is properly arranged. Upon many occasions tigers are missed
because the shooter is so completely cramped that he cannot turn when
the animal suddenly appears in view. A large, firm, and roomy mucharn
fixed upon the boughs of a tree that will not wave before a gust of
wind, is the proper platform to ensure a successful shot.

I have frequently been perched in a mere heron's nest, formed of light
wood arranged upon most fragile boughs; this wretched contrivance has
swayed before the wind to an extent that would have rendered accurate
aim impossible; fortunately upon such occasions I have never obtained a
shot.

Although driving may read as an unexciting sport, it is quite the
contrary if the hunter takes sufficient interest in the operations to
attend to every detail personally. When all is in readiness after the
tiger has killed a buffalo, there is much art required in the conduct of
the drive. Natives vary in different districts; some are clever and
intelligent, and take an immense interest in the sport, especially if
they are confident in the generosity of their employer. In other
districts there may be abundant game, but the natives are cowardly, and
nothing will persuade them to keep an unbroken line, upon the perfection
of which the success of the drive depends.

As a rule, there is no great danger in the steady advance of a line of
men, provided they are at close intervals of 5 or 8 yards apart, and
that they keep this line intact. It is a common trick, when the beaters
are nervous, to open out the line in gaps, and the men resolve
themselves into parties of ten or twenty, advancing in knots, at the
same time howling and shouting their loudest to keep up the appearance
of a perfect line. In such cases the tiger is certain to break back
through one of the inviting gaps, and the drive is wasted.

To drive successfully, the beaters must not only keep a rigid line, but
they must thoroughly understand the habits of the animal, and the
positions of the posted guns. If the drive is thoroughly well organised,
there should be eight or ten men who are experienced in the sport; these
should take the management of the beat, and being distributed at
intervals along the line, they should direct the operations.

A few really clever shikaris should be able (with few exceptions to the
rule) to drive the tiger to any required position, so as to bring it
within shot of any particular mucharn. This may be effected without
extraordinary difficulty. The drive should be arranged to include three
parts of a circle. If there are three guns, their positions would depend
upon the quality and conditions of the ground, leaving intervals of only
80 or 100 yards at farthest between the three mucharns. From either
flank, commencing only 50 yards from each mucharn, a native should be
posted in a tree, and this system of watchers should be continued until
they meet the extreme ends of the right and left flanks of the beating
line. It will be seen that by this method there is a chain of
communication established throughout the line, both flanks being in
touch with the right and left mucharns by watchers in the trees only 50
yards apart. The tiger, if within the beat, will be completely
encircled, as it will have the guns in front, the line of beaters in a
semicircle behind, and a chain of watchers in trees from 30 to 50 yards
apart from either side of the line to within sight of the mucharns. If
the jungle should be tolerably open, the tiger cannot move without being
seen by somebody. It now has to be driven before the beaters, and it
should be induced to select a particular direction that will bring it
within distance of one particular mucharn.

Each man who may be perched in the trees, which form a chain from the
right and left extremities of the line, will be provided with several
pieces of exceedingly dry and brittle sticks; he will hold these in
readiness for use whenever he may observe the tiger. If he sees that the
animal wishes to pass through the line, and thereby escape from the
beat, he simply breaks a small stick in half; the sound of a snap is
quite sufficient to divert the tiger from its course; it will generally
stop and listen for a few moments, and then being alarmed by the unusual
sound, it will again move forward, this time in the required direction,
towards the guns. In this manner the animal is gradually guided by the
unseen watchers in the trees, and is kept under due control, without any
suspicion upon its part that it is being conducted to the fatal spot
within 30 or 40 yards of the deadly aim of an experienced rifle. This
leading of the tiger requires considerable skill, as much discretion is
necessary in breaking the stick at the proper moment, or increasing the
noise should it be deemed expedient.

As a rule, the slightest sound is sufficient to attract the attention of
a driven tiger, as the animal is well aware that the shouts of a line of
beaters are intended to scare it from the neighbourhood; it is
accordingly in high excitement, and it advances like a sly fox slowly
and cautiously, occasionally stopping, and turning its head to listen to
the cries of the approaching enemy. Any loud and sudden noise would
induce it to turn and charge back towards the rear, in which case it is
almost certain to escape from the beat.

Some tigers are more clever than others, and having escaped upon more
than one occasion, they will repeat the dodge that has hitherto
succeeded. It is a common trick, should the jungle be dense and the
ground much broken, for the tiger to crouch when it hears the beaters in
the distance, instead of going forward in the direction of the guns.
This is a dangerous stratagem, as the wary animal will lie quietly
listening to the approaching line, and having waited until the beaters
are within a few yards of its unexpected lair, it will charge back
suddenly with a terrific roar, and dash at great speed through the
affrighted men, perhaps seizing some unfortunate who may be directly in
its path. I have known tigers that have been hunted many times, but who
have always escaped by this peculiar dodge, and such animals are
exceedingly difficult to kill. In such cases I am of opinion that no
shouts or yells should be permitted, but that the line should advance,
simply beating the stems of trees with their sticks; at the same time
six or eight natives with their matchlocks should be placed at intervals
along the line to fire at the tiger should it attempt to break through
the rear. This may sometimes, but rarely, succeed in turning it, and
compelling it to move in the required direction. It is a curious fact
that "breaking back" is a movement general to all animals, which have an
instinctive presentiment of danger in the front, if alarmed by the sound
of beaters from behind. If once they determine upon a stampede to the
rear, nothing will stop them, but they will rush to destruction and face
any opposition rather than move forward before the line. The tiger in
such cases is extremely dangerous, although when retreating in an
ordinary manner before the beaters it would seldom attack a human being,
but, on the contrary it would endeavour to avoid him. It is frequently
the custom of tigers to remain together in a family the male, female,
and a couple of half or three parts grown young ones. We cannot
positively determine whether the male always remains with his family
under such circumstances, or whether he merely visits them periodically;
I am inclined to the latter opinion, as I think the female may be
attractive during her season, which induces the male to prolong his
visit, although at other periods he may be leading an independent life.
Good fortune specially attends some favoured sportsmen who have
experienced the intensity of happiness when a complete family of tigers
has marched past their position in a drive, and they have bagged every
individual member. This luck has never waited upon me, but I have seen
three out of the four secured, the big and wary male, having modestly
remained behind, escaping by breaking back through the line of beaters.

The tigress remains with her young until they are nearly full-grown, and
she is very assiduous in teaching her cubs to kill their prey while they
are extremely young. I have seen an instance of such schooling when two
buffaloes were tied up about a quarter of a mile apart; one was killed,
and although these two baits were mere calves, it had evidently been
mangled about the neck and throat in the endeavour to break the neck.
This had at length been effected by the tigress, as proved by the larger
marks of teeth, while the wounds of smaller teeth and claws in the
throat and back of neck showed that the cub had been worrying the
buffalo fruitlessly, until the mother had interfered to complete the
kill. The other buffalo calf had been attacked, and severely lacerated
about the nape of the neck and throat, but it was still alive, and was
standing up at the post to which it had been tied. This proved that the
cub had been practising upon both these unlucky animals, and that the
tigress had only interfered to instruct her pupil upon the last
occasion. A dead vulture was lying near the buffalo carcase; this had
been killed, probably, by the cub; the fact showed that the buffalo had
been attacked that morning during daylight, and not during the preceding
night, when the vultures would have been at roost.

The tigress is generally in advance of the male during a drive, should
there be two together; this should not be forgotten, and a sharp
look-out should be directed upon the place from whence the tigress shall
have emerged, as the shot must be taken at the rearmost animal, who
would otherwise disappear immediately, and break back at the sound of
the explosion. In all cases it is incumbent upon the watcher to study
attentively every feature of the ground directly that he enters upon his
post, so that he may be prepared for every eventuality; he should
thoroughly examine his surroundings, noting every little open space,
every portion of dense bush, and form his opinion of the spot that would
probably be the place of exit when the tiger should be driven to the
margin of the covert. Tigers are frequently missed, or only slightly
wounded, through utter carelessness in keeping a vigilant look-out. The
watcher may have omitted to scan the details of the locality, and when
unprepared for the interview, the tiger suddenly appears before him.
Startled at the unexpected apparition, he fires too quickly, and with
one bound the tiger vanishes from view, leaving the shooter in a state
of misery at his miss, that may be imagined. Nearly all the fatalities
in tiger-shooting are caused by careless shooting, which necessitates
the following up a blood-track; it is therefore imperative that extreme
care and coolness be observed in taking a steady aim at a vital portion
of the body, that will ensure the death of the animal at latest within a
few minutes. If the shot is fired at right angles with the flank,
exactly through the centre of the blade-bone, the tiger will fall dead,
as the heart will be shattered, and both shoulders will be broken. A
shot close behind the shoulder will pass through the centre of the
lungs, and death will be certain in about two minutes, but the animal
will be able to inflict fatal injuries upon any person it may encounter
during the first minute, before internal bleeding shall have produced
complete suffocation. If the hunter is confident in the extreme accuracy
of his rifle, a shot in the centre of the forehead rather above a line
drawn across the eyes will ensure instant death. This is a splendid shot
when the hunter sits upon an elevation and the tiger is approaching him;
in that position he must be careful to aim rather high, as, should the
bullet miss the forehead, it will then strike the spine at the junction
of the neck; or if too high, it will break the spine between the
shoulders; at any rate, the chances are all in favour of the rifle,
whereas, should the aim be too low, the bullet might penetrate through
the nose, and bury itself within the ground, merely wounding the animal
instead of killing. Should the hunter be on foot, he must on the
contrary aim low, exactly at the centre of the nose; if he is only one
inch too high, the tiger may escape, as the bullet may pass over the
head and back; but if the aim is low and the nose should be missed, the
bullet will either break the neck, or regularly rake the animal by
tearing its course through the chest and destroying the vitals in its
passage along the body. In that case the .577 solid bullet of 650 grains
and 6 drams of powder will produce an astonishing effect, and will
completely paralyse the attack of any lion or tiger, thus establishing a
thorough confidence in the heart of its proprietor.



CHAPTER VI

THE TIGER (continued)

There is no more delightful study than Natural History in its practical
form, where the wild beasts and their ways are actually presented to the
observer in their native lands, and he can examine their habits in their
daily haunts, and watch their characters in their wild state instead of
the cramped limits of zoological collections. At the same time we must
confess that the animals of a menagerie afford admirable opportunities
for photography, and are most instructive for a rudimentary preparation
before we venture upon the distant jungles where they are to be found in
their undisturbed seclusion. It is commonly supposed that wild animals
that have never been attacked by fire-arms are not afraid of man, and
that deer, antelopes, and various species which are extremely timid may
be easily approached by human beings, as the creatures have no fear of
molestation. My experience does not support this theory. Nearly all
animals have some natural enemy, which keeps them on the alert, and
renders them suspicious of all strange objects and sounds that would
denote the approach of danger. The beasts of prey are the terror of the
weaker species, which cannot even assuage their thirst in the hottest
season without halting upon the margin of the stream and scrutinising
the country right and left before they dare stoop their heads to drink.
Even then the herd will not drink together, but a portion will act as
watchers, to give notice of an enemy should it be discerned while their
comrades slake their thirst.

It is a curious and inexplicable fact that certain animals and varieties
of birds exhibit a peculiar shyness of human beings, although they are
exposed to the same conditions as others which are more bold. We see
that in every portion of the world the curlew is difficult to approach,
although it is rarely or never pursued by the natives of the
neighbourhood; thus we find the same species of bird exhibiting a
special character whether it has been exposed to attack, or if
unmolested in wild swamps where the hand of man has never been raised
against it.

The golden plover is another remarkable example, as the bird is wild in
every country that it inhabits, even where the report of fire-arms never
has been heard. The wagtails, on the contrary, are tame and confiding
throughout all places, whether civilised or savage. The swallows are the
companions of the human race, nesting beneath their eaves, and sharing
the shelter of their roofs in every clime. Why this difference exists in
creatures subjected to the same conditions is a puzzle that we cannot
explain. In like manner we may observe the difference in animals, many
of which are by nature extremely timid, while others of the same genus
are more bold. The beasts of prey vary in an extraordinary degree
according to their species, which are in some way influenced by
circumstances. Tigers and lions are naturally shy, and hesitate to
expose themselves unnecessarily to danger; both these animals will
either crouch in dense covert and allow the passer-by to continue his
course, or slink away unobserved, if they consider that their presence
is undetected. Nevertheless these animals differ in varying localities,
and it is impossible to describe the habits of one particular species in
general terms, as much depends upon the peculiarities of a district
which may exercise an effect in influencing character. The tigers that
inhabit high grass jungle are more dangerous than those which are found
in forests. The reason is obvious; the former cannot be seen, neither
can they see, until the stranger is almost upon them; they have
accordingly no time for consideration, but they act upon the first
impulse, which is either to attack in self-defence or to bound off in an
opposite direction. If the same tiger were in a forest it would either
see the approach or it would hear the sound of danger, and being
forewarned, it would have time to listen and to decide upon a course of
retreat; it would probably slink away without being seen.

Although the usual bait for a tiger is a young buffalo, there is no
animal that is held in greater respect by this ferocious beast than an
old bull of that species.

It is by no means an uncommon occurrence that should a tiger have the
audacity to attack a buffalo belonging to a herd, the friends of the
victim will immediately rush to its assistance, and the attacking party
is knocked over and completely discomfited, being only too glad to
effect a retreat.

A few months ago, from the date at which I am now writing, a native came
to my camp with the intelligence that a large tiger had suddenly sprung
from a densely wooded nullah and seized a cow that was grazing within a
few yards of him. The man shouted in the hope of scaring the tiger, when
two buffaloes who were near the spot and were spectators of the event at
once charged the tiger at full speed, knocked it over by their onset,
and followed it as it sprang for safety into the thick bush, thus saving
the cow from certain destruction. The cow, badly lacerated about the
throat, ran towards its native village, followed by its owner. I lost no
time in arriving at the spot, about two miles from camp, and there I
found the recent tracks precisely tallying with the description I had
received. We organised a drive on the following morning, but the
crestfallen tiger had taken the notice to quit, and had retreated from
the neighbourhood.

An example of this kind is sufficient to exhibit the cautious character
of the tiger. My shikari, a man of long experience, differed in opinion
with the native who had witnessed the attack. This man declared that the
tiger must be lying in a dense thicket covering a deep hollow of about
10 acres, to which it had retreated when charged by the two buffaloes;
he advised that we should lose no time, but organise a drive at once, as
the tiger, having been frightened by the buffaloes, would probably
depart from the locality during the night.

My shikari argued against this suggestion. He was of opinion that the
tiger might not be lying in the hollow, as there was much broken ground
and jungle in the immediate neighbourhood, including many dense and deep
nullahs that might have formed a retreat: if the tiger should happen to
be within one of those places, it would be outside the drive, and would
be frightened away by the noise of the beaters should we drive the
hollow, and it would escape unseen. If, on the other hand, the tiger
should be lying in any spot within a radius of half a mile, it would be
very hungry, as proved by its attack upon the cow during broad daylight,
and it would assuredly kill one or both of the baits, and remain with
its prey, if we should tie up two young buffaloes that night; we should
then be certain to have it within the drive on the following morning.

This was sound reasoning, and according to rule; but the native argued
that the tiger, having been knocked over and pounded by the buffaloes,
would be so cowed that it would decline to attack the young buffaloes
that might be secured to trees as baits; it would, on the contrary,
avoid anything in the shape of a buffalo, and if we neglected to drive
the jungle at once, we should find a blank upon the following morning.

The sequel proved that the man was correct, as the buffaloes were
untouched on the following day, and the tiger had disappeared from the
locality.

The tiger, although hungry, was sufficiently disturbed by its defeat to
abstain from any further attack; although the baits were only twelve
months old, it was too shy to encounter anything in the shape of a
buffalo.

In the grassy islands of the Brahmaputra there were a vast number of
tigers some twelve or fourteen years ago, but their number has been
reduced through the development of the country by the various lines of
steamers which have improved the navigation of the river. Formerly a
multitude of small islands of alluvial deposit thrown up by the
impetuous current created an archipelago for 60 or 70 miles of the
river's course south of Dhubri, in the direction of Mymensing; these
varied in size from a few hundred yards to a couple of miles in length,
and being covered with high grass and tamarisk, they formed a secluded
retreat for tigers and other game at the foot of the Garo Hills. The
river makes a sudden bend, sweeping near the base of this forest-covered
range, from which the wild animals at certain seasons were attracted to
the island pasturage and dense covert, especially when the forests had
been cleaned by annual firing, and neither food nor place of refuge
could be found. As these numerous islands abounded with wild pigs,
hog-deer, and other varieties of game, they were most attractive to
tigers, and these animals were tolerably secure from molestation, as it
was impossible to shoot or even to discover them in grass 10 feet high
without a line of elephants. The improvement introduced by steam
navigation gave an increased impulse to cultivation, as the productions
of the country could be transported at a cheap rate to Calcutta by the
large barges termed flats, which are fastened upon either side of the
river steamers. These are 270 feet in length, and of great beam. The
steamers are from 270 to 300 feet from stem to stern, and are furnished
with hurricane decks capable of stowing a large cargo, although the
draught of water is limited owing to the numerous sandbanks that
interrupt the channel. The peculiar conditions of the Brahmaputra, which
render it necessary that these large vessels should be of very shallow
draught, entail the necessity of a rudder 17 feet in length to afford a
sufficient resistance for steering when running down the stream. The
shock when striking upon a sandbank is sufficient to bury the stem
without straining the vessel, as the flat bottom remains fixed upon the
soft soil for a few moments, during which the force of the stream upon
so large a surface brings the steamer broadside on to the obstruction
and releases the stem. It is then an affair of an hour or more to get
her off the bank by laying out kedge anchors, and heaving upon the
hawsers with the steam winches.

The Brahmaputra is an extraordinary river, as it acknowledges no
permanent channel, but is constantly indulging in vagaries during the
season of flood; at such times it carries away extensive islands and
deposits them elsewhere. Sometimes it overflows its banks and cuts an
entirely new channel at a sudden bend, conveying the soil to another
spot, and throwing up an important island where formerly the vessels
navigated in deep water. This peculiar character of the stream renders
the navigation extremely difficult, as the bed is continually changing
and the captains of the steamers require a long experience.

During inundations the islands are frequently drowned out, and the wild
animals are forced to swim for the nearest shore. Upon such occasions
tigers have been frequently seen swimming for their lives, and they have
been killed in the water by following them in boats. The captain of the
steamer in which I travelled told me of a curious incident during a
great inundation, which had covered deeply all the islands and
transported many into new positions. Upon waking at daylight, the man
who took the helm was astonished to see a large tiger sitting in a
crouching attitude upon the rudder, which, as already explained, was 17
feet in length. A heavily-laden flat or barge was lashed upon either
side, and the sterns of these vessels projected beyond the deck of the
steamer, right and left.

The decks of these large flats were only feet above the water, and the
tiger, when alarmed by a shout from the helmsman, made a leap from the
rudder to the deck of the nearest vessel. In an instant all was
confusion, the terrified natives fled in all directions before the
tiger, which, having knocked over two men during its panic-stricken
onset, bounded off the flat and sought security upon the deck of the
steamer alongside. Scared by its new position and by the shouts of the
people, it rushed into the first hole it could discover; this was the
open door of the immense paddle-box, and the captain rushed to the spot
and immediately closed the entrance, thereby boxing the tiger most
completely.

There was only one gun on board, belonging to the captain: the door
being well secured, there was no danger, and an ornamental air-hole in
the paddle-box enabled him to obtain a good view of the tiger, who was
sitting upon one of the floats. A shot through the head settled the
exciting incident; and the men who were knocked over being more
frightened than hurt, the affair was wound up satisfactorily to all
parties except the tiger.

The progress of science in the improvement of steam navigation has had a
wonderful effect throughout the world during the past half century, and
it is interesting to watch the development resulting from the increased
facilities of steam traffic upon the Brahmaputra. Although a residence
upon the islands is accompanied by extreme risk during the period of
inundations, there are many villages established where formerly the
tigers held undisturbed possession; and the rich alluvial soil is made
to produce abundance, including large quantities of jute, which is
transported by the steamers to Calcutta. The danger of an unexpected
rise in the river is always provided for, and every village possesses
two or more large boats, which are carefully protected from the sun by a
roof of mats or thatch, to be in readiness for any sudden emergency.

When the natives first established themselves upon the islands and along
the dangerous banks of the Brahmaputra, they suffered greatly from the
depredations of the numerous tigers, and in self-defence they organised
a system by which each village paid a subscription towards the
employment of professional shikaris. These men soon reduced the numbers
of the common enemy, by setting clever traps, with bows and arrows, the
latter having a broad barbed head, precisely resembling the broad arrow
that is well known as the Government mark throughout Great Britain. The
destruction of tigers was so great in a few years that the
Lieut.-Governor of Bengal found it necessary to reduce the reward from
fifty rupees to twenty-five, and tiger-skins were periodically sold by
auction at the Dhubri Kutcherry at from eight annas to one rupee each.

In this manner the development of agricultural industry brought into
value the fertile soil, which had hitherto been neglected, and the wild
beasts were the first to suffer, and eventually to disappear from the
scene; precisely as indolent savage races must vanish before the
inevitable advance of civilisation. and their neglected countries will
be absorbed in the progressive extension of colonial enterprise.

I believe there are very few tigers to be found at the present time in
the islands or "churs" of the Brahmaputra, and although I never had the
good fortune to know the country when it was described to me as
"crawling" with these animals, I look back with some pleasure to my
visit in 1885, when through the kindness of Mr. G. P. Sanderson, the
superintendent of the keddahs, I was supplied with the necessary
elephants.

The Rajah of Moochtagacha, Soochikhan (or Suchi Khan), had started from
Mymensing with thirty-five elephants, and he kindly invited me to join
him for a few days before I should meet Mr. Sanderson at Rohumari, about
38 miles below Dhubri, on the Brahmaputra. I had a scratch pack of
twelve elephants, including some that had been sent forward from the
keddahs, and others kindly lent by the Ranee of Bijni. These raised our
number into a formidable line, excepting one huge male with long tusks
belonging to the Bijni Ranee, who was too savage to be trusted with
other elephants in company. This brute, as is not uncommon, combined
great ferocity with extreme nervousness. He had just destroyed the
howdah, which was smashed to atoms, as the animal had taken fright at
the crackling of flames when some one had ignited a patch of long grass
in the immediate neighbourhood. This had established an immediate panic,
and the elephant bolted at full speed, destroying the howdah utterly
beneath the branches of a tree; fortunately there was no occupant, or he
would certainly have been killed. The sound of fire is most trying to
the nerves of elephants, but a good shooting animal should be trained
especially to bear with it; otherwise it is exceedingly dangerous.

The Rajah's elephants were his peculiar enjoyment, and there was the
same difference in their general appearance, when compared with the
keddah elephants, as would be seen in a well-kept stable of hunters and
a team of ordinary farm horses. At the same time it must be remembered
that Suchi Khan's elephants did no work, but were kept solely for his
amusement, while the keddah animals had been working hard in the Garo
Hills for many months upon inferior food, engaged with their experienced
superintendent Mr. Sanderson in catching wild elephants. Nevertheless
there was a notable superiority in the Rajah's shikari animals, as they
had been carefully trained to the sport of tiger-hunting; they marched
with so easy a motion that a person could stand upright in the howdah,
rifle in hand, without the necessity of holding the rail. They appeared
to glide instead of swaying as they moved, and in that respect alone
they exhibited immense superiority, the difficulty of shooting with a
rifle from the back of an elephant in motion being extreme. Several of
these elephants were so well trained that they showed no alarm when a
tiger was on foot, at which time an elephant generally exhibits a
tendency to nervousness, and cannot be kept motionless by his mahout.

A favourite shikar animal had been badly bitten by a tiger a few days
before my arrival, and it was feared that she might become shy upon the
next encounter. Although the elephant is enormous in weight and
strength, the upper portion of the trunk is much exposed, as it is the
favourite spot for the tiger's attack, where it can fix its teeth and
claws, holding on with great tenacity. A wound on the trunk is most
painful, and when an elephant is actually pulled down by a tiger, it is
the pain to which the animal yields in falling upon the knees, more than
the actual weight and strength of the tiger that produce the effect. A
tiger, when standing upon its hind legs, would be able to reach about 8
feet without the effort of a spring; it may be readily imagined that a
female elephant unprotected by tusks must certainly be injured should a
tiger rush determinedly to the attack; nevertheless the female is
generally preferred to the male for steadiness and docility. When a
really trustworthy male elephant is obtainable, well grown, of large
size, easy action, and in perfect training, it is simply invaluable, and
there is no pleasure equal to such a mount; the sensation upon such an
animal is too delightful, and you long for the opportunity to exhibit
the power and prowess of your elephant, as the feeling of being
invincible is intensely agreeable. The only sensation that can approach
it is the fact of being mounted upon a most perfect hunter, that you can
absolutely depend upon when following the hounds in England; an animal
well up to a couple of stones more than your own weight, who never bores
upon your hand, but keeps straight, and never makes a mistake; even that
only faintly approaches the pleasure of a good day upon such an elephant
as I have described.

Mahouts will always lie concerning the reputation of the animal in their
charge, and I had been assured that the great male belonging to the
Ranee of Bijni was the ideal character I coveted; but I discovered that
his temper was so well known that the Rajah positively declined to
expose his line of elephants to an attack, which he assured me would
take place if the animal became excited; in which event some valuable
elephant would suffer, as the long tusks of the Bijni elephant had not
been blunted, or shortened by the saw. This splendid animal was
accordingly condemned to the ignominious duty of conveying food to the
camp, for the other elephants upon their return from their daily work.
The neighbourhood of the Brahmaputra is rich in plantain groves, and for
a trifling consideration the natives allow those trees which have
already produced their crop to be cut down. A full-length stem will
weigh about 80 lbs., therefore an elephant is quickly loaded, as the
animal for the short distance to camp will carry 18 cwts. or more. The
operation of loading a pad elephant with either boughs or plantain stems
is very curious. Two men are necessary; one upon the ground hands the
boughs, etc., to the man upon the animal's back, who lays the thin or
extreme end of the branch across the pad, leaving the thick or heavy end
outwards. He places one foot upon this to keep it from slipping off
until he has placed the next bough across it upon the opposite side,
arranged in a similar manner. In this way he continues to load the
elephant, each time holding down with his foot a separate bough, until
he has secured it by the weight of another, placed in the same position
opposite. This plan enables him to build up a load like a small
haystack, which is then secured by ropes, and almost hides the animal
that carries it. My mighty beast was condemned to this useful but
degrading employment, instead of being honoured by a place in the line
of shikari's elephants, and we started into the valleys among the Garo
Hills, led by a native who declared that he would introduce us to
rhinoceros and buffaloes.

We started at 6 A.M., and marched about 14 miles, extending into line
whenever we entered a broad valley of high grass, and slowly thrashing
our way through it. In many of the swampy flats among the hills the
reedy grass was quite 14 or 15 feet in height and as thick as the
forefinger; so dense was this herbage, that when the elephants were in
line you could only see the animals upon the immediate left and right,
the others being completely hidden. It struck me that this system of
beating was rather absurd, as there were no stops in the front, neither
scouts on the flanks, therefore any animals that might be disturbed by
the advance in line had every chance of escape without being observed.
The grass was a vivid green, and occasionally a rush in front showed
that some large animal had moved, but nothing could be seen. This was a
wrong system of beating. I was second in the line of six guns, the Rajah
Suchi Khan upon my left; we presently skirted the foot of a range of low
forest-covered hills, and after a rush in the high reeds I observed a
couple of sambur deer, including a stag, trotting up the hill through
the open forest, all of which had been recently cleared by fire. A right
and left shot from Suchi Khan produced no effect, but the incident
proved that the system of beating was entirely wrong, as the game when
disturbed could evidently steal away and escape unseen. Our right flank
had now halted at about 400 yards' distance as a pivot, upon which the
line was supposed to turn in order to beat out the swamp that was
surrounded upon all sides by hills and jungles. Suddenly a shot was
heard about 200 yards distant, then another, succeeded by several in
slow succession in the same locality. I felt sure this was a buffalo,
and, as the line halted for a few minutes, I counted every shot fired
until I reached the number twenty-one. Before this independent firing
was completed we continued our advance, wheeling round our extreme
right, and driving the entire morass, moving game, but seeing absolutely
nothing. Although the jungles had been burnt, the valley grass was a
bright green, as the bottom formed a swamp; even at this season (April)
the ground was splashy beneath the heavy weight of our advancing line.
Having drawn a blank since we heard the shots, we now assembled at the
spot, where we found a bull buffalo lying dead surrounded by the
elephants and four guns. These had enjoyed the fusillade of twenty-one
shots before they could extinguish the old bull, who had gallantly
turned to bay instead of seeking safety in retreat. It was a glorious
example of the inferiority of hollow Express bullets against
thick-skinned animals. The buffalo was riddled, and many of the shots
were in the right place, one of which behind the shoulder would have
been certain death with a solid 650 grains hard bullet, from a .577
rifle with 6 drams of powder. The buffalo, finding himself surrounded by
elephants, had simply stood upon the defensive, without himself
attacking, but only facing about to confront his numerous enemies.

We were a very long way from camp; we therefore retraced our course, and
having avoided some dense swamps that were too soft for the elephants,
we sought harder ground, shooting several hog-deer on our way, and
arriving in camp after sundown, having been working for twelve hours, to
very little purpose, considering our powerful equipments.

Although we had covered a very large area during the day's work, we had
seen no tracks of rhinoceros, and so few of buffaloes that we determined
to abandon such uninteresting and unprofitable ground; accordingly we
devoted the following day to the churs or islands of the river, where we
should expect no heavy game, but we might come across a tiger.

In driving the grassy islands of the Brahmaputra some persons are
contented with the chance of moving tigers by simply forming a line of a
quarter of a mile in length with forty elephants, without any previous
arrangement or preparation. This is wrong.

To shoot these numerous islands much caution is required, and unless
tigers are exceedingly plentiful, the whole day may be fruitlessly
expended in marching and counter-marching under a burning sun, with a
long line of elephants, to little purpose.

There should be a small herd of at least twenty head of cattle under the
special charge of four shikaris, and five or six of these poor beasts
should be tied up at a distance of a mile apart every evening as bait
for tigers. At daylight every morning the native shikaris should visit
their respective baits, and send a runner into camp with the message
should one or more have been killed. The elephants being ready, no delay
would occur, and the beat would take place immediately. In that manner
the tiger is certain to be found, as it will be lying somewhere near the
body of its prey.

There is a necessity for great precaution, lest a tiger when disturbed
should steal away and escape unobserved from the dense covert of high
grass. To effect his destruction, at least two scouting elephants should
be thrown forward a quarter of a mile ahead from either flank of the
advancing line; and, according to the conditions of the locality, two or
more elephants with intelligent mahouts should be sent forward to take
up positions ahead of the line at the terminus of the beat. These men
should be provided with small red flags as signals should the tiger show
itself; the waving of flags together with a shout will head the tiger,
and drive it back towards the advancing line of elephants; at the same
time the signal will be understood that a tiger is afoot, and the
mahouts will be on the alert.

When a tiger is headed in this manner it will generally crouch, and
endeavour to remain concealed until the elephants are close upon it.
Upon such occasions it will probably spring upon the first disturber
with a short harsh roar, and unless stopped or turned by a shot, it will
possibly break through the line and escape to the rear, as many of the
elephants will be scared and allow the enemy to pass.

Should this occur, it will be necessary to counter-march, and to reverse
the position by sending some active elephants rapidly upon either flank
to take up certain points of observation about 500 yards distant,
according to the conditions of the ground. This forms the principal
excitement of tiger-shooting in high grass, as the sport may last for
hours, especially if there are only two or three guns in a long line of
elephants. If there is no heavy forest at hand, but only grass jungle,
no tiger should be allowed to escape if the management is good, and the
patience of the hunters equal to the occasion.

I must give every credit to the Rajah Suchi Khan for this virtue, and
for the perseverance he and his friends exhibited in working for so many
hours in the burning sun of April to so little purpose. There was very
little game upon the islands near Dhubri beyond a few hog-deer and wild
pigs, and it appeared mere waste of time to wander in a long line of
beating elephants from sunrise till the afternoon with scarcely a hope
of tigers. However, upon the second day, when our patience was almost
exhausted, we met a native who declared that a tiger had killed one of
his cows only two days before. Taking him as a guide, he led us about
two miles, and in a slight hollow among some green tamarisk we were,
after a long search, introduced to a few scattered bones, all that
remained of the native cow which had been recently killed, and the
skeleton dislocated by jackals and wild pigs. Unless the tiger had been
disturbed there was every chance of its being somewhere in the
neighbourhood; we therefore determined to beat every yard of the island
most carefully, although it extended several miles in length, and was
about one mile in maximum width.

The line was formed, but no scouts were thrown forward, nor were any
precautions taken; it was simply marching and counter-marching at
hazard. Hours passed away and nothing was moved to break the monotony of
the day but an occasional pig, whose mad rush for the moment disturbed
the elephants.

It was 2 P.M.: hot work for ladies--my wife was in the howdah behind me.
I confess that I am not fond of the fair sex when shooting, as I think
they are out of place, but I had taken Lady Baker upon this occasion at
her special request, as she hoped to see a tiger. We were passing
through some dense green tamarisk, growing as close and thick as
possible, in a hollow depression, which during the wet season formed a
swamp, when presently the elephants began to exhibit a peculiar
restlessness, cocking their ears, raising their trunks, and then
emitting every kind of sound, from a shrill trumpet to the peculiar low
growl like the base note of an organ, broken suddenly by the sharp
stroke upon a kettle-drum, which is generally the signal of danger or
alarm. This sound is produced by striking the ground with the extremity
of the trunk curled up.

I felt sure that a tiger was in this dense covert. The question was how
to turn him out.

The tamarisk was about 20 feet high, but the stems were only as thick as
a man's arm; these grew as close together as corn in a field of wheat;
the feathery foliage of green was dark through extreme density, forming
an opaque mass that would have concealed a hundred tigers without any
apparent chance of their discovery.

Although this depression was only about 6 feet below the general level
of the island, it formed a strong contrast in being green, while the
grass in the higher level was a bright yellow. The bottom had been
swampy, which explained the vigorous vegetation; and although this lower
level was not wider than 80 or 90 yards, it was quite a quarter of a
mile in length.

Neither the mahouts nor their animals appeared to enjoy the fun of
beating out this piece of dense covert, as they were well aware that the
tiger was "at home." As it was absolutely necessary to form and keep a
perfect line, the elephants being shoulder to shoulder, I begged the
Rajah and his friends to ride towards the terminus of the tamarisk
bottom, placing a gun at the extreme end and upon either side; while I
should accompany the beaters to keep a correct line, and to drive the
covert towards them. I felt sure that by this arrangement the tiger
could not escape without being seen.

This was well carried out; they took their places, and after some delay
I managed to collect about forty elephants into a straight line, not
more than 4 or 6 feet from each other. The word was given for the
advance, and the effect was splendid. The crash through the yielding
mass was overpowering; the dark plumes of the tamarisk bowed down before
the irresistible phalanx of elephants; the crackling of the broken stems
was like the sound of fire rushing through a cane-brake, and this was
enlivened by sudden nervous squeals, loud trumpets, sharp blows of
kettle-drums, deep roars, and all the numerous sounds which elephants
produce when in a state of high nervous excitement. I felt sure that at
times the tiger was only a few feet in our advance, and that it was
slinking away before the line.

The elephants increased in excitement; sometimes two or three twisted
suddenly round, and broke the line. A halt was ordered, and although it
was impossible to see beyond the animal on the immediate right and left,
the order was given to dress into an exact line, and then to advance.

In this manner, with continual halts to re-form, we continued our
uncertain but irresistible advance. Suddenly we emerged upon a swampy
piece of grass interspersed with clumps of tamarisk; here there was
intense excitement among the elephants, several turned tail and bolted
in an opposite direction; when the cause was quickly discovered, by a
large tiger passing exactly in front of me not 20 yards distant, and
showing himself most distinctly, giving me a lovely chance.

The elephant we rode was a female named Sutchnimia, and she had been
introduced to my notice as infallible, her character as usual being well
supported by her mahout; but no sooner did this heroic beast descry the
tiger, than she twisted herself into every possible contortion, throwing
herself about in the most aimless attitudes, with a vigour that
threatened the safety of the howdah and severely taxed the strength of
the girth-ropes.

The tiger (a fine male) suddenly stopped, and turned three-parts round,
apparently amazed at the gesticulations of the elephant; and there the
beast stood, exposing the shoulder to a most certain shot if the
elephant would have kept decently quiet for only two seconds. The fact
of the tiger having halted, and remaining in view within 20 yards, only
aggravated the terror of Sutchnimia, and she commenced shaking her
colossal body like a dog that has just emerged from water. It was as
much as we could do to hold on with both hands to the howdah rails; my
watch was smashed, the cartridges in my belt were bent and doubled up
against the pressure of the front rail and rendered useless, while the
mahout was punching the head of his refractory animal with the iron
spike, and the tiger was staring with astonishment at the display upon
our side.

This picture of helplessness did not last long; the tiger disappeared in
the dense covert, and left me to vent my stock of rage upon the
panic-stricken elephant. Twice I had endeavoured to raise my rifle, and
I had been thrown violently against the howdah rail, which had
fortunately withstood the shock. The tiger had broken back, therefore it
was necessary to repeat the beat. I was of opinion that it would be
advisable to take the elephants out of the tamarisk jungle, and to march
them along the open ground, so as to re-enter exactly in the same place
and in the same order as before. There could be no doubt that the tiger
would hold to the thick covert until fairly driven out, and it would
probably break upon the second beat where the guns were protecting the
end and both sides of the hollow.

The elephants were this time intensely excited, as they knew as well as
we did that the game was actually before them. I ordered them to keep
within a yard of each other, to make it impossible for the tiger to
slink back by penetrating the line. Several times as we advanced in this
close order the animal was evidently within a few feet of us, as certain
elephants endeavoured to turn back, while others desired to dash forward
upon the unseen danger, which all keenly smelt. At last, when several
elephants trumpeted and made a sudden rush, a shot was fired from the
gun upon the left flank, stationed upon the open ground slightly above
the hollow. The line halted for an explanation, and it appeared that the
Rajah had fired, as the tiger for an instant showed itself upon the edge
of the tamarisk jungle.

We now continued the advance; the tiger had not spoken to the shot,
therefore we considered that it was without effect, and I felt sure that
in such compact order we should either trample upon it or push it out at
the extremity of the covert.

At length, having carefully beaten out the tamarisk, which had now been
almost destroyed by the tread of so close a line of elephants, we
emerged at the extreme end of the hollow, where, instead of tamarisk, a
dense patch of withered reeds much higher than an elephant were mingled
in a confused growth, occupying an area of hardly 10 yards square. I
felt sure that the tiger must have crouched for concealment in this
spot.

Suchi Khan had brought his elephant upon the left, another gun was on
the right, and a third in the centre at the extreme end, while I was in
the bottom with the line of elephants. Begging the outside guns to be
careful, and to reserve their fire until the tiger should bolt into the
open, I ordered the elephants to form three parts of a circle, to touch
each other shoulder to shoulder, and slowly to advance through the
tangled reeds. This was well done, when suddenly the second elephant
upon my left fell forward, and for the moment disappeared; the tiger had
made a sudden spring, and seizing the elephant by the upper portion of
the trunk, had pulled it down upon its knees. The elephant recovered
itself, and was quickly brought into the position from which for a few
seconds it had departed. The tiger was invisible in the dense yellow
herbage.

Very slowly the line pressed forward, almost completing a circle, but
just leaving an aperture a few yards in width to permit an escape. The
elephant's front was streaming with blood, and the others were intensely
excited, although apparently rendered somewhat confident by pressing
against each other towards the concealed enemy.

Presently a mahout about two yards upon my right beckoned to me, and
pointed downward with his driving-hook. I immediately backed my elephant
out of the crowd, and took up a position alongside his animal. He
pointed at some object which I could not distinguish in the tangled
mixture of reeds, half-burnt herbage, and young green grass that had
grown through; at length something moved, and I at once made out the
head and shoulders of a tiger crouching as though ready for a spring. In
another moment it would have tried Sutchnimia's nerves by fixing its
teeth upon her trunk; but this time she stood well, being encouraged by
the supporting elephants, and I placed a .577 bullet between the tiger's
shoulders; this settled the morning's sport without further excitement.

The tiger was dragged out. It was a fine male, and we discovered that
Suchi Khan's shot had struck it in the belly; the wound, not being
fatal, had rendered it more vicious.

It has already been remarked that a really staunch and tractable
elephant is rarely met with. This renders tiger-shooting exceedingly
uncertain, as it is impossible to shoot correctly with a rifle when an
animal is flinging itself about to an extent that renders it necessary
to hold fast by the howdah rail. I generally take an ordinary No. 12 gun
as an adjunct. If the grass is very high and dense, the tiger will
seldom be farther than 20 yards distant, and a smooth-bore breechloader
with a spherical ball will shoot sufficiently well to hit the palm of
your hand. This accuracy may be obtained to 30 or 40 yards provided that
the bullet is sufficiently large to enter the chamber, but a size too
large for the muzzle. It will accordingly squeeze its way through
without the slightest windage, and will shoot with great precision, with
a charge of 4 1/2 drams of powder and a ball of pure soft lead. A No. 12
is exceedingly powerful, and if 7 lbs. in weight, it can be fired with
one hand like a pistol. This is an immense advantage, as the shooter can
hold tight by the howdah rail with his left hand, while he uses his gun
with the right. I always load the right barrel with ball, and the left
with the same charge of powder (4 1/2 drams), but with either 16 S.S.G.
or 1 1/2 ounce of A.A. or B.B. shot. For leopards there is nothing so
certain as S.S.G. at 20 or 30 yards; and for hog-deer and other sorts of
small game the smaller shot is preferable, but always with the same full
charge of powder.

A smooth-bore gun is much easier to use than a rifle from a howdah, as
it is unnecessary to squint along the sight, but the shot is taken at
once with the rapidity usual in ordinary shooting at flying objects.
Care must be taken, when firing only with one hand, that the wrist
should be turned to the left, so that the hammers of the gun are lying
over in that direction instead of being erect. In that position the
elbow is raised upon the right, and the recoil of the gun will not throw
it up towards the shooter's face, which might happen should the gun be
held with the hammers uppermost; it is also much easier to hold a gun
with one hand in the attitude described. Should a tiger spring upon an
elephant, it would be exceedingly difficult to defend the animal unless
by shooting with one hand, as the struggles of the elephant would render
it impossible to stand.

I had a practical example of this shortly after the departure of Suchi
Khan, when I pushed on to Rohumari and met Mr. G. P. Sanderson, April 1,
1885. He had brought with him the entire force of elephants from the
Garo Hills, the season for capturing wild elephants having just expired.
Many of his men were suffering from fever, and he himself evidently had
the poison of malaria in his system.

A bullock had been tied up the preceding evening within three-quarters
of a mile from our camp, and on the morning of April 1 this was reported
to have been killed. We accordingly sallied out, and in a few minutes we
found the remains, above which the vultures were soaring in large
numbers. The high grass had been partially burnt, and large patches
remained at irregular distances where the fire had not penetrated, or
where the herbage had been too green to ignite; however, all was as dry
as tinder at this season, and having formed the elephants in line, I
took up a position with my elephant about 300 yards ahead.

The elephants came on in excellent formation, as Mr. Sanderson was
himself with them in command; presently I saw a long tail thrown up from
among the yellow grass, and quickly after I distinguished a leopard
moving rapidly along in my direction. For a few minutes I lost sight of
it, but I felt sure it had not turned to the right or left, and, as a
clump of more than ordinary thick grass stood before me, I concluded
that the animal had probably sought concealment in such impervious
covert.

When the elephants at length approached, I begged that half a dozen
might just march through the patch within a few yards of my position. I
was riding an elephant called Rosamond, which was certainly an
improvement upon my former mount.

Hardly had the line entered the patch of grass when, with a short angry
roar, a leopard sprang forward, and passed me at full speed within 25
yards; and immediately turned a somersault like a rabbit, with a charge
of 16 S.S.G. from the No. 12 fired into its shoulder.

This was very rapidly accomplished, as our camp was within view,
certainly not more than a mile distant.

We placed the leopard upon a pad elephant, and sent it home; while we
once more extended the line, and as usual I took up a position some
hundred yards in advance, in a spot that was tolerably clear from the
high grass.

Almost the same circumstance was repeated.  I saw another leopard
advancing before the line, and pushing my elephant forward to a point
that I considered would intercept it, I distinctly saw it enter a
tangled mass of herbage, hardly large enough to shelter a calf; there it
disappeared from view.

The line of elephants arrived, and no one was aware that another leopard
had been moved. I pointed out the small clump of grass, and ordered an
elephant to walk through it. In an instant a leopard bolted, and
immediately rolled over like its comrade; but as I had to wait until it
had cleared the line of elephants before I fired, it was about 35 yards
distant, and although it fell to the shot, it partially recovered, and
limped slowly forward with one broken leg, being terribly wounded in
other places. It only went about 40 paces, and then lay down to die. One
of the mahouts dismounted from his elephant, and struck it with an axe
upon the head. This leopard was immediately despatched to camp, and we
proceeded to beat fresh ground, as no tiger had been here, but evidently
the two leopards had killed the bullock on the preceding night, and
nothing more remained.

Rosamond had stood very steadily, but she was terribly rough to ride,
and the howdah swung about like a boat in a choppy sea.

A couple of hours were passed in marching through every place that
seemed likely to invite a tiger, but we moved nothing except a great
number of wild pigs; a few of these I shot for the Garo natives who
accompanied us. At length we observed in the distance the waving, green,
feathery appearance of tamarisk, and as the sun was intensely hot, we
considered that a tiger would assuredly select such cool shade in
preference to the glaring yellow of withered grass. At all times during
the hot season a dense bed of young tamarisk is a certain find for a
tiger, should such an animal exist in the neighbourhood. The density of
the foliage keeps the ground cool, as the sun's rays never penetrate.
The tiger, being a nocturnal animal, dislikes extreme heat, therefore it
invariably seeks the densest shade, and is especially fond during the
hottest weather of lying upon ground that has previously been wet, and
is still slightly damp; it is in such places that the tamarisk grows
most luxuriantly.

We were now marching through a long strip of this character which had at
one time formed a channel; on either side the tamarisk strip was
enormously high, and dense grass. Suddenly an elephant sounded the
kettle-drum note; this was quickly followed by several others, and a
rush in the tamarisk frightened the line, as several animals had
evidently broken back. We could see nothing but the waving of the bush
as the creatures dashed madly past. These were no doubt large pigs, but
I felt certain from the general demeanour of the elephants that some
more important game was not far distant.

The advance continued slowly and steadily.  Presently I saw the
tamarisk's feathery tops moving gently about fifteen paces ahead of the
line; the elephants again trumpeted and evinced great excitement; this
continued at intervals until we at length emerged from the tamarisk upon
a flat space, where the tall grass had been burnt while yet unripe, and
although killed by the fire and rendered transparent, it was a mass of
black and yellow that would match well with a tiger's colour. We now
extended the line in more open order, to occupy the entire space of
about 200 yards front; Sanderson kept his position in the centre of the
line, while I took my stand in an open space about 150 yards in advance,
where an animal would of necessity cross should it be driven forward by
the beat.

The line advanced in good order.  The elephants were much disturbed, and
they evidently scented danger.

They had not marched more than 50 or 60 yards before a tremendous
succession of roars scattered them for a few moments, as a large tiger
charged along the line, making splendid bounds, and showing his entire
length, as he made demonstrations of attack upon several elephants in
quick rotation. It was a magnificent sight to see this grand animal, in
the fullest strength and vigour, defy the line of advancing monsters,
every one of which quailed before the energy of his attack and the
threatening power of his awe-inspiring roars. The sharp cracks of two
shots from Sanderson, whose elephant was thus challenged by the tiger,
hardly interrupted the stirring scene; but, as the enemy rushed down the
line, receiving the fire from Sanderson's howdah, he did not appear to
acknowledge the affront, and having effected his purpose of paralysing
the advance, he suddenly disappeared from view.

I was in hopes that he would break across the open which I commanded,
but there was no sign of movement in the high grass. The line of
elephants again advanced slowly and cautiously; suddenly at a signal
they halted, and I observed Sanderson, whose elephant was a few yards in
advance of the line, halt, and, standing up, take a deliberate aim in
the grass in front. He fired; a tremendous roar was the response, and
the tiger, bounding forward, appeared as though he would assuredly cross
my path. Instead of this, after a rush of about 50 or 60 yards I saw the
tall grass only gently moving, as the animal had reduced its pace to the
usual stealthy walk. The grass ceased moving in a spot within 30 paces,
and exactly opposite my position. I marked a bush upon which were a few
green shoots that had sprouted since the fire had scorched the grass. I
was certain that the tiger had halted exactly beneath that mark. My
mahout drove the elephant slowly and carefully forward, and I was
standing ready for the expected shot, keeping my eyes well open for an
expected charge; Sanderson was closing in upon the same point from his
position. Presently, when within a few feet of the green bush, I
distinguished a portion of the tiger, but I could not determine whether
it was the shoulder or the hind-quarter. Driving the elephant steadily
forward, with the rifle to my shoulder, I at length obtained a complete
view. The tiger was lying dead!

Sanderson's last shot had hit it exactly behind the shoulder; but the
first right and left had missed when the tiger charged down the line,
exemplifying the difficulty of shooting accurately with an elephant
moving in high excitement.

We now loaded an elephant with this grand beast and started it off to
camp, where Lady Baker had already received two leopards. We had done
pretty well for the 1st April, but after this last shot our luck for the
day was ended.

This day unfortunately deprived me of my companion, as the fever which
had been dormant developed itself in Sanderson and completely prostrated
him. He had a peculiar objection to quinine, therefore in default of
remedies, which were all at hand, he remained a great sufferer during
three successive weeks, and I was left alone with the long line of
elephants to complete the driving of the innumerable churs below the
village of Rohumari. I must pay Mr. Sanderson the well-merited
compliment of praising his staff of mahouts, who were, with their
well-trained animals, placed at my disposal; these men exhibited the
result of such perfect discipline and organization, that, although a
perfect stranger to them, I had not the slightest difficulty; on the
contrary, they worked with me for twenty days as though I had been their
old master for as many years. No better proof could be adduced of the
excellent management of Mr. Sanderson's department.

The sport on 1st April had raised my expectations, but I quickly
discovered that it was an exceptional day, and that the rule would be
disappointing. A little experience introduced me to the various
characters of the elephants which composed our pack, and I amused myself
by arranging them according to their qualifications, the heavier and
slower animals in the centre, and the more active at either end of the
line. Each elephant was to retain invariably the same position every
day, as the mahouts and their beasts would be more likely to act
harmoniously if always associated together in the beat. The fast
elephants, being at the extreme ends, would be able to turn quickly upon
the centre whenever necessary. Four elephants were told off as scouts;
these were the most active, with intelligent mahouts. The men appeared
to take an intense interest in the sport, and in the regularity of the
arrangements, as they were equally aware with myself of the necessity
for strict order and discipline, where only one solitary gun represented
the offensive capacity of the line.

The ordinary method of tiger-shooting with a long line of elephants
comprises five or six guns placed at intervals. I dislike this style of
sport, as it engenders wild and inaccurate firing. Every person wishes
to secure a chance, therefore no opportunity is lost, and wherever the
grass is seen to move, a bullet is directed at the spot. If only one gun
is present, extreme caution and good management are necessary to ensure
the death of a tiger, and the result of twenty-five days' shooting on
the churs of the Brahmaputra was highly satisfactory, as during that
period eight tigers and three leopards _only_ were moved, and every one
was bagged; thus nothing whatever escaped.

I always make a point of allowing the Government reward as a bonus,
without any deductions for buffalo baits or beaters, and this amount I
divide among the shikaris and mahouts according to my estimation of
their merits; this gives them an additional interest in the proceedings.
We were now thoroughly organised, and, if the tigers had been in the
numbers that existed some years ago, we should have made a more than
ordinary bag. The difficulty of managing so long a line of elephants
with a tiger on foot, and only one gun, was shortly made apparent.

One of our baits had been killed, and the body had been dragged into
about twelve acres of wild rose. This bush produces a blossom rather
larger than the common dog-rose of English hedges, and equally lovely.
Although it is armed with a certain amount of thorns, it is not to be
compared with the British variety as a formidable barrier, but, as it
delights in swamp hollows, it grows into the densest foliage, about 18
feet high, and forms an impenetrable screen of tangled and matted
vegetation. No human being could force his way through a network of wild
rose, therefore it forms a desirable retreat for all wild animals, who
can penetrate beneath it, and enjoy the protection of cool shade, and
undisturbed seclusion.

In an open grass country it may be readily imagined that tigers would be
certain to resort to such inviting covert, where they would be secure
from all intrusion, and to which cavernous density they could drag and
conceal their prey.

Upon arrival about three miles from camp at this isolated patch of rose
jungle, I felt sure that the tiger must be within. There was a similar
but rather smaller area of wild rose about 3/4 mile distant, and it was
highly probable that should the tiger be disturbed, it might slink away,
break covert at the extreme end, and make off across the open grassland
to the neighbouring shelter. I therefore posted myself outside the
jungle in a kind of bay, where I considered the tiger would emerge from
his secure hiding-place before he should risk a gallop across the open.

I threw out scouts as usual, and I sent the line of elephants round, to
drive the jungle towards me from the opposite extremity.

A certain time elapsed, and at length I perceived the approach, in
splendid line, each elephant as nearly as possible equidistant from its
neighbour.

They marched forward in regular array until within a couple of hundred
yards of my position; then suddenly I heard a trumpet, trunks were
thrown up in the air, the line wavered, and a succession of well-known
sounds showed that a tiger was before them. The mahouts steadied their
animals, brought them again into a correct line, and the advance
continued.

I was riding a large male elephant named Thompson; this was a fine
animal with formidable tusks, but he was most unsteady. Already he was
swaying to and fro with high excitement, as he knew full well by the
trumpets and sounds of the other elephants that a tiger was not far
distant.

Presently I saw the jungle shake, and a hog-deer dashed out within a few
yards of me; the elephant whisked suddenly round; this prepared me for a
display of his nervousness. Again the rose bushes moved, and I
distinctly observed a yellowish body stealing beneath the tangled mass;
it was quickly lost to sight. The line of beating elephants was coming
slowly forward, crashing their way through the bush, and occasionally
giving a shrill scream, when again I saw the bushes move; without
further introduction a very large tigress gave two or three roars, and
rushed out of the jungle exactly opposite my position, straight at my
elephant. Before I had time to raise my rifle, the elephant spun round
as though upon a pivot, and ran off for a few paces, making it
impossible for me to fire. The tiger, probably alarmed, turned back into
the secure fortress of wild rose.

We now knew that the tiger was positively between the line of elephants
and myself. I felt sure that it would not show again at the same place;
I therefore selected a favourable spot about 100 yards to my left upon
some slightly rising ground, and the elephants wheeled and beat directly
towards me.

Nothing moved except pigs, which all broke back at a wild rush between
the elephants' legs, two of which had slight cuts from the tusks of
boars, which had made a spiteful dig at the opposing legs whilst
passing.

At length the line arrived within 20 yards from the margin of the thick
jungle; here a regular rush took place; several hog-deer dashed back,
but at the same time a tiger bounded forward, and galloped across the
open grass-land in the direction of the neighbouring wild-rose covert.
The scouts holloaed, waved their puggarees, and then rode after the
tiger as hard as they could press their active elephants.

My steed Thompson had behaved disgracefully, as he had again twisted
suddenly round, and was so unsteady that although the tigress was not 10
yards from me I had not the power of firing; I accordingly relinquished
my favourite rifle '577, which I secured in the rack, and took in
exchange my handy No. 12 smooth-bore, which only weighed 7 lbs. With
that light weapon I knew I could take a quick flying shot; the
right-hand barrel was loaded with a spherical ball, and the left with 1
3/4 ounce S.S.G shot and 4 1/2 drams of powder. To load a cartridge case
(Kynoch's brass) with this charge, and a very thick felt wad, it is
necessary to fix the wad above the shot with thick gum, otherwise it
will not contain the extra quantity.

Upwards of an hour was passed in driving the second covert, but although
we moved the tiger several times, it was impossible to obtain a shot, as
the cunning brute, discovering our intentions, was determined not to
break into the open near the elephant. At length, finding the
impossibility of dislodging it, I put myself in the centre of the line,
and left the end of the covert unguarded, so as to invite the tiger to
make a dash through the interval to regain the former jungle.

As we marched along, driving in a compact line I presently observed the
jungle move about 30 yards before me, and I immediately fired into the
spot, not in the expectation of hitting an unseen animal, but I
concluded that the shot would assist in driving it from the covert. This
was successful, as shortly afterwards we heard the shouts of the mahouts
on the scouting elephants, who reported that the tiger had gone away at
great speed across the intervening ground towards the original retreat.

We hurried forward, and upon reaching the wild-rose jungle we re-formed
the line, and made use of every possible manoeuvre for at least an hour
without obtaining a view of the tiger. The elephants appeared confident
that their enemy was there, and my men began to think that the shot I
had fired into the bush might have wounded it, and that it was probably
lying dead beneath some tangled foliage. By this time, through continual
advancing and counter-marching, the jungle was completely trodden into
confused masses of concentrated briars, which might have concealed a
buffalo.

I did not share their opinion, but I concluded that the tiger was
crouching, and that it would allow the elephants to pass close to its
lair without the slightest movement. I accordingly ordered them to close
up shoulder to shoulder, and to take narrow bea