 part whether this were exactly a
Sunday occupation; but Dolores pronounced that 'the Sabbatarian system
was gone out,' and after Constance had introduced the ghostly double of
her vanished waif walking in a surpliced procession, she persuaded
herself that there was a sufficient aroma of religion about the story
to bring it within the pale of Sunday books.

The days were shortening so that Lady Merrifield had doubts as to the
fitness of letting the girls return in the dark, but Gillian would have
been grieved to relinquish her class, and the matter was adjusted by
the two remaining till evensong, when there was sure to be sufficient
escort for them to come home with.

Therewith arrived the holidays and Jasper, whose age came between those
of Gillian and Mysie.  Dolores had looked forward to his coming, for,
by all the laws of fiction, he was bound to be the champion of the
orphan niece, and finally to develop into her lover and hero.  In 'No
Home,' when Clare's aunt locked her up and fed her on bread and water
for playing the piano better than her spiteful cousin Augusta, Eric,
the boy of the family, had solaced her with cold pie and ice-creams
drawn up in a basket by a cord from the window.  He had likewise forced
from his cruel mother the locket which proved Clare's identity with the
mourning countess's golden-haired grandchild and heiress, and he had
finally been rewarded with her hand, becoming in some mysterious manner
Lord Eric.

Jasper, however, or Japs, as his family preferred to call him, proved
to be a big, shy boy, not at all delighted with the introduction of a
stranger among his sisters, neither golden-haired nor all-accomplished,
only making him feel his home invaded, and looking at him with her
great eyes.

'Is that girl here for good?' he asked, when he found himself with
Harry and Gillian.

'Yes, of course,' said the cousin, 'while her father is away, and that
is for three years.'

Jasper whistled.

'Aunt Ada said,' added Gillian, 'that if she got too tiresome, mamma
had Uncle Maurice's leave to send her to  school.'

'That would be no good to me,' said Jasper, 'for she would still be
here in the holidays.'

'Has she been getting worse?' asked Harry.

'No, I don't know that she has,' said Gillian, 'except that she runs
after that Constance more than ever.  But, I say, Jasper, mamma says
she is particularly anxious that there should be no teasing of her; and
you can hinder Wilfred better than anybody can.  She wants her to be
really at home, and one--'

But though Jasper was very fond both of mother and sister, he would not
stand a second-hand lecture, and broke in with an inquiry about chances
of rabbit-shooting.

Among his juniors he heard more opinions and more undisguised, when the
whole party had rushed out together to the stable-yard to inspect the
rabbits and other live-stock.

'And Dolly says you are a fright,' sighed Mysie, condoling with a very
awkward-looking puppy which she was nursing.

'She! she thinks everything a fright!' said Valetta.

'Except Constance,' added Wilfred.

'Who is ugliest of all!' politely chimed in Fergus.

'Oh, Japs, she is such a nasty girl--Dolly, I mean!' cried Valetta.

"You know you ought not to say 'nasty,'" exclaimed Mysie.

'Well, but she is!' insisted Val.  'She squashed a dear little lady-
bird, and said it would sting!'

'She really thought it would,' said Mysie.

At which the young barbarians shouted aloud with contempt, and Valetta
added.  'She is afraid of everything--cows and dogs and frogs.'

'I got a whole match-box full of grasshoppers to shut up in her desk
and make her squall,' said Wilfred, 'only the girls went and turned
them out.'

'It was so cruel to the poor grasshoppers,' said Mysie. 'One had his
horn broken, and dragged his leg.'

'What does she do?' asked Jasper.

'She's always cross,' said Fergus.

'And she won't play,' added Valetta.  'And never will lend us anything
of hers.'

'And she's a regular sneak,' said Wilfred.  'She wants to tell of
everything--only we stopped that and she doesn't dare now.'

'You see,' said Mysie, gravely, 'she has always lived alone and in
London, and that makes her horribly stupid about everything sensible.
We thought we should soon teach her to be nice; and mamma says we shall
if we are patient.'

'We'll teach her, won't we, Japs!' said Wilfred, aside, in an ominous
voice.

'She is only thirteen,' added Valetta, 'and she pretends to be grown
up, and only to care for a grown-up young lady--that Constance Hacket.'

'Yes,' added Mysie, 'only think--they write poetry!'

'What rot it must be!' said Jasper.  'There's a man in my house that
writes poetry, and don't they chaff him!  And this must be ever so much
worse.'

'Oh, that it is,' said Valetta.  'I heard Mr. Poulter and Miss Vincent
laughing about it like anything.'

'But they get it put into print,' said Mysie, still impressed.  'Miss
Hacket brought it up to give to mamma, and there's ever so much of it
shut up in the drawing-room blotting-book with the malachite knobs.  I
can't think why they laugh--I think it is very pretty.  Old Miss Hacket
read me the one about "My Lost Dove."'

'Mysie always will stick up for Dolores,' said Valetta in a grumbling
voice.

'I always meant her to be my friend,' said Mysie, disconsolately.

'Well, I'm glad she's not,' said Jasper.  'What a sell it would have
been for me to find you chummy with a stupid, poetry-writing, good-for-
nothing girl like that, instead of my jolly old Mice!'

And at that minute all Dolly's slights were fully compensated for!

There was a lurking purpose in the boys' minds that if Dolores would
not join in fun, yet still fun should be extracted from her. Jasper had
brought home a box of Japanese fireworks, and Wilfred, who was
superintending his unpacking, proposed to light the serpent and place
it in Dolores's path as she was going up to bed; but Jasper was old
enough to reply that he would have no concern with anything so low and
snobbish as such a trick. In fact, there was in Jasper's mind a decided
line between bullying and teasing, which did not exist as yet in
Wilfred's conscience.  And, altogether, Dolores was in a state of mind
that made her stiff letters to her father betray low spirits and
discontent.

On Sunday, while waiting for the early dinner, Jasper and Mysie
happened to be together in the drawing-room, and Mysie took the
opportunity of showing her brother the different cuttings of poetry.
The lines were smooth, and some had a certain swing in them such as
Mysie, with an unformed taste, a love for Miss Hacket, and amazement
that the words of a familiar acquaintance of her own should appear in
print, genuinely admired. But the eyes of a youth exercised in
'chaffing' the productions of one of his fellow 'men' were infinitely
more critical. Besides, what could be more shocking to the General's
son than the confusion between the evening gun and the sham fight? And
Mysie had been reduced to confusion for not detecting the faults, and
then pardoned in consideration of being only a girl, by the time the
gong summoned them to the Sunday roast beef.

The dinner over, the female part of the family, scampered headlong
upstairs, while Harry repaired with his mother to her room to talk over
a letter from his father respecting his plans on leaving Oxford. The
other boys hung about the hall, until Gillian and Dolores came down
equipped for walking.  'Hollo, Gill!  All right!  Where's Mysie?  We'll
be off!  Mysie!  Mice!  Mouse!  Val!'

'You must wait for them, Japs,' said Gillian.  'They are having their
dresses changed; and, don't you remember, I always go to Miss
Hacket's.'

'Botheration!  What for?'

'You know very well.'

'Oh yes.  To help her to write touching verses about the sweet dead
dove, with voice and plumage soft as love, eh? Only, Gill, I'm afraid
your memory is failing, if you don't know the evening gun from rifle
practice.'

'Nonsense! that's no concern of mine,' said Gillian, opening the front
door, very anxious to get Dolores away from hearing anything worse.

'Oh, that's your modesty. Only such a conjunction could have produced
such a scene that the evening star came up backwards to look at it!'

'For shame, Jasper! How in the world did you get hold of that?'

'Too sweet a thing not to meet with universal fame,' said Jasper, to
whom it was exquisite fun to assume that Gillian devoted her Sunday
afternoons to the concoction of such poetry with Constance Hacket, and
thus to revenge himself for his disgust and jealousy at having his
favourite companion and  slave engrossed. Wilfred hopped about like an
imp in ecstasy, grinning in the face of Dolores, whom Gillian longed to
free from her tormentors. The shout was welcome, as Mysie and Valetta
came tearing down the drive after them.

'Japs!  Japs!  Oh, we couldn't come before because nurse would make us
take off our Sunday serges. Come and let out the dogs. Mamma says we
may see if there are any nice fir cones in the plantation to gild for
the Christmas-tree.'

'And you won't come?' said Jasper.  'The Muses must meet.  What a poem
you will produce!


                'Hear I a cannon or a rifle,
                 That is an unessential trifle!'


'What nonsense boys do talk!' said Gillian, turning her back on them
with regret; for much as she loved her class, she better loved a walk
with Jasper, and here was Dolores on her hands in a state of
exasperation, believing her to have broken her promise, and muttering,

'You set him on.'

'No, indeed I never did!  You know I promised.'

'There are plenty of ways of getting out of a promise.'

'Speak for yourself, Dolores.'

There were ten minutes of offended silence, and then Gillian said,
'This is nonsense!  You may believe me, I was sorry I laughed at the
first verses you showed me, and mamma said I ought not.  We never spoke
of it, but Miss Hacket has been giving mamma all the poems, and Jasper
must have got at them.  Don't you see?'

'Oh yes, you say so,' said Dolores, sulkily.

'You don't believe me!'

'You promised that your brothers should never hear of it.'

'I promised for myself. I couldn't promise for what was put into a
newspaper and trumpeted all over the place,' said Gillian, really angry
now.

Dolores could not deny this, but she was hurt by the word trumpeted;
and besides, her own slippery behaviour was weakening her trust in
other people's sincerity, and she only gave a kind of grunt;  but
Gillian, recovering herself a little, and remembering her mother's
words, proceeded to argue.  'Besides, it was me whom Jasper meant to
tease, not you.'

'I don't care which it was.  He is as bad as the rest of them!'

Gillian attempted no more conciliation, and they arrived in silence at
the Casement Cottages, where Constance was awaiting her friend in the
greatest excitement; for she had despatched 'The Waif of the Moorland'
to Mr. Flinders in the course of the week, and had received a letter
from him in return, saying that a personal interview with the gifted
authoress would be desirable.

'And I do long to see him; don't you, darling?

'It is very hard that he should be kept away from me,' said Dolores,
trying to stir up some tender feelings.

'That it is, my poor sweet! I thought whether he could come to me for a
merely literary consultation without Mary's knowing anything further
about it, and then we could contrive for you to come down and meet him;
but there are so many horrid prejudices that I suppose it would not be
safe.'

'I don't see how I could come down here without the others.  Aunt Lily
won't let me come alone, and though it is holiday time, that is no
good, for those horrid boys are always about, and I see that Jasper is
going to be worse even than Wilfred.

Various ways and means were discussed, but no excuse seemed available
for either Constance's going to Darminster, or for Mr. Flinders coming
to Silverton, without exciting suspicion.




CHAPTER XI.

SECRET EXPEDITION



'The Christmas-tree!  Oh, mamma, do let it be the Christmas-tree.  It
is quite well.  We've been to look at it.'

'Christmas-trees have got so stale, Val,' said Gillian.

'Rot!' put in Jasper.

'Oh, please, please, mamma,' implored Valetta, 'please let it be the
dear old Christmas-tree!  You said I should choose because it will be
my birthday.'

'There is no need to whine, Val; you shall have your tree.'

'I'm so glad!' cried Mysie.  'The dear old tree is best of all.  I
could never get tired of it if I lived to be a hundred years old.'

'Such are institutions,' said their mother.  'I never heard of a
Christmas-tree till I was twice your age.'

'Oh, mamma!  How dreadful!  What did you do?'

'I suppose it is all very well for you kids,' said Jasper, loftily,
putting his hands in his pockets.

'Perhaps something may be found interesting eve: to the high and mighty
elders,' observed Lady Merrifield.

'Oh! What, mamma?'

Mamma, of course, only looked mysterious.

'And,' added Val, 'mayn't we all go on a secret expedition and buy
things for it?'

'We've all been saving up,' added Mysie; 'and everybody knows every
single thing in all the shop at Silverton.'

'Besides,' added Gillian, 'the sconces will none of them hold, and
almost all the golden globes got smashed in coming from Dublin, and one
of the birds has its head off, and another has lost its spun-glass
tail, and another its legs.'

'A bird of Paradise,' said Lady Merrifield, laughing; 'but wasn't there
a tree at Malta decked with no apparatus at all?'

'Yes, but Alley and Phyl can do anything!'

'I think we must ask Aunt Jane---'

There was a howl.  'Oh, please, mamma, don't let Aunt Jane get all the
things!  We do so want to choose.'

'You impatient monsters!  You haven't heard me out, and you don't
deserve it.'

'Oh, mamma, I beg your pardon!'  'Oh, mamma, please!'  'Oh, mamma,
pray!' cried the most impatient howlers, dancing round her.

'What I was about to observe, before the interruption by the honourable
members, was, that we might perhaps ask Aunt Jane and Aunt Ada to
receive at luncheon a party of caterers for this same tree.'

'Oh! oh! oh!'  'How delicious!'  'Hooray!'  'That's what I call jolly
fun!'

'And, mamma,' added Gillian, 'perhaps we might let Miss Hacket join.  I
know she wants to get up something for a G.F.S. class; but mamma was
attending to Primrose, and the brothers burst in.

'There goes Gill, spoiling it all!' exclaimed Wilfred.

'That's always the way,' said Jasper.  'Girls must puzzle everything up
with some philanthropic Great Fuss Society dodge.'

'I am sure, Jasper,' said Gillian, 'I don't see why it should spoil
anything to make other people happy. I thought we were told to make
feasts not only for our own friends--'

'Gill's getting just like old Miss Hacket,' said Wilfred.

'Or sweet Constance,' put in Jasper.  'She'll be writing poems next.'

'Hush! hush! boys,' said Lady Merrifield.  'I do not mean to interfere
with your pleasure, 'but I had rather our discussions were not entirely
selfish.  Suppose, Gillian, we walked down to Casement Cottages, and
consulted Miss Hacket.'

This was done, in the company of all the little girls, for Miss
Hacket's cats, doves, and gingerbread were highly popular; moreover,
Dolores was glad of a chance sight of Constance.

'My dear,' said Lady Merrifield, as Gillian walked beside her, 'you
must be satisfied with giving Miss Hacket the reversion of our tree,
and you and Mysie can go and help her. It will not do to make these
kind of works a nuisance to your brothers.'

'I did not think Jasper would have been so selfish as to object,' said
Gillian, almost tearfully.

'Remember that boys have a very short time at home, and cannot be
expected to care for these things like those who work in them,' said
Lady Merrifield.  'It will not make them do so, to bore them, and take
away their sense of home and liberty. At the same time, they must not
expect to have everything sacrificed to them, and so I shall make
Jasper understand.'

'You won't scold him, mamma?'

'Can't you, any of you, trust me, Gill?'

'Oh! mamma! Only I didn't want him to think. I wouldn't do everything
he liked, except that I don't want him to be unkind about those poor
girls.'

Miss Hacket was perfectly enraptured at the offer of the reversion of
the Christmas-tree and its trapping. Valetta's birthday was on the 28th
of December and the tree was to be lighted on the ensuing evening for
G.F.S.  Moreover, the party would go to Rockstone as soon as an
appointment could be made with Miss Mohun, to make selections at a
great German fancy shop, recently opened there, and in full glory; and
the Hacket sisters were invited to join the party, starting at a
quarter to eight, and returning at a few minutes after seven, the
element of darkness at each end only adding to the charm in the eyes of
the children, and Valetta, with a little leap, repeated that it would
be a real secret expedition.

'Very secret indeed,' said her mother, 'considering how many it is
known to--'

'Yes, but it is, mamma, for everybody has a secret from everybody.'

The words made Constance and Dolores look round with a start from their
colloquy under the shade of the window-curtains, but no one was
thinking of them.  Just as the plans were settled, Constance came
forward, saying, 'Lady Merrifield, may I have dear Dolores to spend the
day with me?  We neithe of us wish to join your kind party to
Rockstone, and we should so enjoy being together.'

'I had much rather stay,' added Dolores.

'Very well,' said Lady Merrifield, reflecting that her sisters would be
grateful for the diminution of the party, and that it would be easier
to keep the peace without Dolores.

The defection was hailed with joy by her cousins, though they were
struck dumb at her extraordinary taste in not liking shopping.

Jasper did look rather small when his mother assured him in private he
might have trusted her to see that he was not to be incommoded with
Gillian's girls, and he only observed, in excuse for his murmurs, that
it made a man mad to see his sisters always off after some charity fad
or other.

"'Always' being a few hours once a week," she said.

'Just when one wants her.'

'Look here, my boy,' she said, 'you don't want your sisters to be
selfish, useless, fine ladies--never doing any one any good. If they
take up good works, they can't drop them entirely to wait on you.
Gillian does give up a great deal, and it would be kinder to forbear a
little, and not treat all she does as an injury to yourself.'

'I only meant to get a rise out of her.'

'You are quite welcome to do that, provided it is done in good nature.
Gill is quite sound stuff enough to be laughed at!  But, I say, my
Japs, I should prefer your letting Dolores alone; she has not learned
to be laughed at yet, and has not come even to the stage for being
taught to bear it.'

'She looks fit to turn the cream sour,' observed Jasper.  'I say,
mamma, you don't want me to go on this shopping business, do you?'

'Not by any means, sir.'

Happily, the chance of a day's rabbit shooting presented itself at a
warren some miles off, and Harry undertook the care of Wilfred, who
gave his word of honour to obey implicitly and take no liberties with
the guns. Fergus would gladly have gone with them, but he was still
young enough to be sensible of the attractions of toy-shops. Only
Primrose had to be left to the nursery, and there was no need to waste
pity on her, for on such an occasion Mrs. Halfpenny would relax her
mood, and lay herself out to be agreeable, when she had exhausted her
forebodings about her leddyship making herself ill for a week gaun
rampaging about with all the bairns, as if she was no better than one
herself.

'I shall let Miss Mohun do most of the rampaging, nurse; but, if it is
fine, will you take Miss Primrose into the town and let her choose her
own cards.  I have given her a florin, and if you make the most of that
for her, she will be as happy as going with us.'

'That I will, my leddy.  Bairns is easy content when ye ken how to sort
'em.'

'And, nurse, I believe there will be a box from Sir Jasper at the
station.  It may come home in the waggonette that takes us.  Will you
and Macrae get it safe into the store-room, for I don't want the
children to see it too soon?'

There was nothing but satisfaction in the house on the morning of the
expedition.  The untimely candle-light breakfast was only a fresh
element of delight, and so was the paling gas at the station, the
round, red sun peeping out through a yellow break between grey sky and
greyer woods; the meeting Miss Hacket in her fur cloak, the taking of
the tickets, the coughing of the train, the tumbling into one of the
many empty carriages, the triumphant start,--all seemed as fresh and
delicious as if the young people had never taken a journey before in
all their lives.  The fog in the valleys, the sleepy villages, the
half-roused stations, all gave rise to exclamations, and nothing was
regretted but that the windows would get clouded over.

Even the waiting at the junction had its charms, for it was enlivened
by a supplementary breakfast on rolls and milk! and at a few minutes
past eleven the train was drawing up at Rockstone, and Aunt Jane,
sealskins and all, was beckoning from the platform, hurrying after the
carriage as it swept past, and holding out a hand to jump the party
from the door.

There she was, ready to take them to the most charming and cheapest
shops, where the coins burning in those five pockets would go the
furthest. Go in a cab?  No, I thank you, it is far more delightful to
walk.  So mamma and Miss Hacket were stowed away in the despised
vehicle, to make the purchases that nobody cared about, or which were
to be unseen and unknown till the great day; while Aunt Jane undertook
to guide the young people through the town, for her house was at the
other end of it securing the Christmas-cards on the way, if nothin'
else.  For, though all the cards and gifts to mamma, and a good many
besides, were of domestic manufacture, some had to be purchased, and
she knew, this wonderful woman, where to get cards of former seasons at
reduced prices to suit their youthful finances.

Considerable patience was requisite before all the choices were made,
and the balance cast between cards and presents, and Miss Mohun got her
quartette past all the shop windows, to the seaside villa, shut in by
tamarisks, which Aunt Adeline believed to be the only place that suited
her health.  Mamma and Miss Hacket had already arrived, and filled the
little vestibule with parcels and boxes.

Then the early dinner!  The aunts had anticipated their Christmas
turkey for that goodly company to help them eat it, but afterwards
there was only time for a mince pie all round; for more than half the
work remained to be done by all except mamma, who would stay and rest
with Aunt Ada, having finished all that could not be deputed.

However, first she had a conference in private with Aunt Jane, who
undertook therein to come to Silverton for Valetta's birthday, and add
astonishment and mystery sufficient to satisfy such of the public as
were weary of Christmas-trees.  She added, however, 'You will think I
am always at you. Lily, but did you know that Flinders is living at
Darminster?'

'No; but it is five and twenty miles off, and he has never troubled
us.'

'Don't be too secure.  He is in connection with that low paper--the
Politician--which methinks, is the place where those remarkable poems
of Miss Constance's have appeared.'

'Is it not the way of poetry of that calibre to see the light in county
papers?'

'This seems to me of a lower calibre than is likely to get in without
private interest.'

'But to my certain knowledge the child has neither written to, nor
heard of the man all this time,'

'You don't know what goes on with her bosom friend.'

'I am certain Miss Hacket would connive at nothing underhand.  Besides,
I have never seen any thing sly or deceitful in poor Dolores.  She will
not make friends with us, that is all, and that may be our fault.'

'I only say, look out, you unsuspicious dame!'

'Now, Jenny, satisfy my curiosity as to how you know all this.  I am
sure I never showed you those effusions.  We have had trouble enough
about them, for the children cut them up in a way Dolores has never
forgiven.'

'Oh!  Miss Hacket sent them to me, to ask if 'Mollsey to her Babe' and
'The Canary' might not be passed on to Friendly Leaves.  And as to
Flinders, when I went to the G.F.S. Conference at Darminster I met the
man full in the street, and, of course, I inquired afterwards how he
came there.  So there's nothing preternatural about it.'

'It is well you did not live two hundred years ago, or you would
certainly have been burnt for a witch.'

'See what a witch I shall make on the 28th!  But I hear those
unfortunate children dancing and prancing with impatience on the
stairs.  I must go, before they have driven Ada distracted.'

What would the two aunts have said, could they have seen Dolores and
Constance, at that moment partaking of the most elaborate meal the
Darminster refreshment-room could supply, at a little round marble
table, in company with Mr. Flinders!  They had not been obliged to
start nearly so early as the other party, as the journey was much
shorter, and with no change of line, so they had quietly walked to the
station by ten o'clock, arrived at Darminster at half-past eleven, and
have been met by the personage whom Dolores recognized as Uncle Alfred.
Constance was a little disappointed not to see something more
distinguished, and less flashy in style, but he was so polite and
complimentary, and made such touching allusions to his misfortunes and
his dear sister, that she soon began to think him exceedingly
interesting, and pitied him greatly when he said he could not take them
to his lodgings--they were not fit for his niece or her friend, who had
done him a kindness for which he could never be sufficiently grateful,
in affording him a glimpse of his dear sister's child.  It made Dolores
wince, for she never could bear the mention of her mother, it was like
touching a wound, and the old sensation of discomfort and dislike to
her uncle's company began to grow over her again, now that she was not
struggling against Mohun opposition to her meeting him.  He lionized
them about the town, but it was a foggy, drizzly day, one of those when
the fringe of sea-coast often enjoys finer weather than inland places;
the streets were very sloppy, and Dolores and Constance did not do much
beyond purchasing a few cards and some presents at a fancy shop, as
they had agreed to do, to serve as an excuse for their expedition in
case it could not be kept a secret, and most of the visit was made in
the waiting-room at the station, or walking up and down the platform.
As to the grand point, Mr. Flinders told Constance that her tale was
talented and striking, full of great excellence; she might hope for
success equal to Ouida's--but that he had found it quite impossible to
induce a publisher to accept a work by an unknown author, unless she
advanced something.  He could guarantee the return, but she must
entrust him with thirty pounds.  Poor Constance! it was a fatal blow;
she had not thirty pounds in the world; she doubted if she could raise
the sum, even by her sister's help.  Then Mr. Flinders sighed, and
thought that if he represented the circumstances, the firm might be
content with twenty--nay, even fifteen.  Constance cheered up a little.
She did think she could make up fifteen, after the 21st, when certain
moneys became due, which she shared with her sister.  She would be left
very bare all the spring--but what was that to the return she was
promised?  Only Mr. Flinders impressed on her the necessity of secrecy
--even from her sister--since, he said, if he were once known to have
obtained such terms for a young authoress, he should be besieged for
ever!

'But, Uncle Alfred,' said Dolores, 'surely my father and mother, and
all the other people I have known, did not pay to get their things
published.'

'My dear niece, you speak as one who has been with persons of high and
established fame--the literary aristocracy, in fact.  The doors once
opened, Miss Hacket will, like them, make her own terms; but such
doors, like many others, are only to be opened by a silver key.'

There were other particulars which he talked over with the authoress in
a promenade on the platform while Dolores was left in the waiting-room;
but afterwards he indulged his niece with a tete-a-tete, asking her
father's address, and mourning over the length of time it would take to
obtain an answer from Fiji.  Mr. Mohun had promised to help him,
solemnly and kindly promised, for the sake of her whom they had both
loved so much, and here he was, cut off and quite in extremity.
Unfortunate as usual, through his determined enemies, a company in
which he had shares had collapsed, he was penniless till his salary
from the Politician became due in March.  Meanwhile, he should be
expelled from his lodging and brought to ruin if he could not raise a
few pounds--even one.

Dolores had nearly two pounds in her purse.  Her father had left her
amply provided, and she had not much opportunity of spending.  She knew
he had seen the gold when she was shopping, and when she had paid for
the refreshments, which of course she had found she had to do. With
some hesitation she said, 'If thirty shillings would be of any good to
you--'

'My dear, generous child, your dear mother's own daughter!  It will be
the saving of me temporarily!  But among all your wealthy relatives,
surely, considering your father's promise, you could obtain some
advance until he can be communicated with!'

'If he is still in New Zealand, we could telegraph, and hear directly.
He did not know how long he should be there, for the ship had something
to be done to it.'

This did not suit Mr. Flinders.  Such telegrams were very expensive,
and it was too uncertain whether Mr. Mohun would be at Auckland.
Surely, Lady Merrifield, whose husband was shaking the pagoda tree,
would make an advance if she knew the circumstances.

'I don't think she would,' said Dolores, 'I don't think they are very
rich.  There is only one horse and one little pony, and my cousins have
such very tiny allowances.'

'Haughty and poor!  Stuck up and skimping.  Yes, I understand.  But I
am not asking from her, only an advance, on your father's promise,
which he would be certain to repay.  Yes, quite certain!  It is only a
matter of time.  It would save me at the present moment from utter ruin
and destruction that would have broken your dear mother's heart.  Oh!
Mary, what I lost in you.'  Then, as perhaps he saw reflection on
Dolores's face, he added, 'She is gone, the only person who took an
interest in me, so it matters the less, and when you hear again of your
unhappy uncle you will know what drove him--'

'If it was only an advance--I have a cheque,' began Dolores.  'If seven
pounds would do you any good--'

'It would be salvation!' he exclaimed.

'Father left it with me,' pursued Dolores, considering, 'in case
Professor Muhlwasser went on with his great book of coloured plates of
microscopic marine zoophytes, and sent it in.  I was to keep this and
pay with it--'

'Oh!  Muhlwasser! you need not trouble about him.  I saw his death in
the paper a month ago.'

'Then I really think I might send you the cheque, and write to my
father why I did so.'

'Ah! Dolly, I knew that your mother's daughter could never desert me.'

More followed of the same kind, tending to make Dolores feel that she
was doing a heroically generous thing, and stifling the lurking sense
in her mind that she had no right to dispose of her father's money
without his consent.  The December day began to close in, the gas was
lighted, Constance was seen disconsolately peeping out at the waiting-
room door to see whether the private conference were over.  They joined
her again, and Mr. Flinders discoursed about the envy and jealousy of
critics, and success being only attained by getting into a certain
clique, till she began to look rather frightened; but reassured by the
voluble list of names and papers to which he assured her of
recommendations.  Then he began to be complimentary, and she, to put on
the silly tituppy kind of face and tone wherewith she had talked to the
curates at the festival.  Dolores began to find this very dull, and to
feel neglected, perhaps also cross, and doubts came across her whether
she might not get into a dreadful scrape about the money, which she
certainly had no right to dispose of.  She at last broke in with,
'Uncle Alfred, are you quite sure Professor Muhlwasser is dead?'

'Bless your heart, child, he's as dead as Harry the Eighth,' said Mr.
Flinders in haste;' died at Berlin, of fatty degeneration of the heart!
Well, as I was saying, Miss Constance--'

'But, uncle, I was thinking--'

'Hush!' as a couple of ladies and a whole train of nurses and children
invaded the waiting-room, 'it won't do to talk of such little matters
in public places, you know.  Would you not like a cup of tea, Miss
Constance.  Will you allow me to be your cavalier?'

People were beginning to arrive in expectation of the coming train, and
talk was not possible in the throng; at least, Mr. Flinders did not
make it so.  At last the train swept up, and he was hurrying to find
places for the ladies, when there was a moment's glimpse of a handsome
moustached face at a smoking-carriage window.  Dolores started, and had
almost exclaimed, 'Uncle Reginald;' but before the words were out of
her mouth, Mr. Flinders had drawn her on swiftly, among all the numbers
of people getting out and getting in, hurled her into a distant
carriage, handed Constance in after her, and muttering something about
forgetting an appointment, he vanished, without any of the arrangements
about foot-warmers that he had promised.

'Uncle Reginald!' again exclaimed Dolores, 'I am sure it was he!'

'Oh dear!  What an escape!' answered Constance, breathless with
surprise, and settling herself with disgust and difficulty next to a
fat old farmer, as three or four more people entered and jammed them
close together.

'Who is he?' she presently whispered.

'Colonel Mohun.  His regiment is at Galway.  I know he talked of
getting over this winter if he possibly could; but Aunt Lily went away
before the post was come in.'

'We shall have to take great care when we get out.'

Here the train started, and conversation in undertones became
impossible, more especially as two of the farmers in the carriage were
coming back from the Smithfield Cattle Show, and were discussing the
prize oxen with all their might.  It was very stuffy and close.
Constance looked ineffably fastidious and uncomfortable, and Dolores
gazed at the clouded window, and dull little lamp overhead, put in to
enliven the deepening twilight.  This avoiding of Uncle Reginald
brought more before her mind a sense of wrong-doing than anything that
had gone before.  She was fond of this uncle, who always made her
father's house his headquarters when in London, and used to play with
her when she was a small child, and always to take her to the
Zoological Gardens, till she declared she was too old to care for such
a childish show, and then he and her father both laughed at her so much
that she would never have forgiven anybody else; and she found he
enjoyed it for his own sake far more than she did.  However, he always
did take her out for walks and sights that were sure to be amusing with
him.  Father, too, was quite bright and alive when he was in the house,
and thus Dolores had nothing but pleasant associations connected with
this uncle, and had heard of the chances of his coming like a ray of
light, though without much hope, since the state of Ireland had
prevented him from being able even to run over to take leave of her
father.  And now he was come, she must hide from him like a guilty
thing!  There was no spirit of opposition against him in her mind, and
thus she could feel that she was doing something sad and strange.
Moreover, she began to feel that her promise about the cheque had been
a rash one, and the echo of her father's voice came back on her,
saying, 'Surely, Mary, you know better than to believe a word out of
Flinders's mouth.'

But then she thought of her mother's rare tears glistening in her eyes,
and the answer, 'Poor Alfred!  I cannot give him up.  Everything has
been against him.'

It was quite dark before Silverton was reached, at half-past five, with
three quarters of an hour to spare before the other travellers were
expected.  Most of their fellow passengers had got out at previous
stations, so that Constance was able to open the door and jump out so
perilously before the train had quite stopped, that a porter caught her
with a sharp word of reproof.  She grasped Dolores's hand and scudded
across the platform, giving the return tickets almost before the
collector was ready.  A cautious guard even exclaimed, 'What's those
two young women up to?' but was answered at once, 'They're all right!
That's nought but one of the old parson's daughters, as have been out
with a return to Darminster.'

'A sweetheartin'?' demanded one of the bystanders, and there was a
laugh.

Constance heard the tones and vulgar laugh, though not the words, and
she was in such a panic as she hurried down the steps that she did not
stop to look out for a cab. The place was small, and they were not very
plentiful at any time, and she was mortally afraid, though she hardly
knew why, of being over-taken and questioned by Colonel Mohun, who
might know his niece, though he would not know her; but Dolores was
tired, and had a headache, and did not at all like the walk in the
dirt, and fog, and dark, after turning from the gas lit station.

'We were to have a cab, Constance.'

'We can't,' was the answer, still hurrying on.  'He would come out upon
us.'

'He is much more likely to overtake us this way!' said Dolores,
thinking of her uncle's long strides.

'Well, we can't turn back now!' said Constance, getting almost into a
run, which lasted till they were past the paddock gate.  Dolores,
panting to keep up with her, had half a mind to turn up there and go
straight home; but there might be any number of oxen in the way, and
almost worse, she might meet Jasper and Wilfred, or if Uncle Reginald
overtook her, what would he think?

The pair slackened their pace a little when they had satisfied
themselves that the break in the dark hedge beside them was the gate.
They heard wheels, and presently saw the lamps of a cab, bearing down,
halt at the gate they had left behind, and turn in.

'We should have been off first,' said Dolores.

'If we could have got a cab in time?'

'One can always get cabs.'

'Oh! no, not at all for certain.'

'This is a nasty, stupid, out-of-the-way place,' said Dolores, wanting
to say something cross.

'It isn't a vulgar place, full of traffic,' returned Constance, equally
cross.

'Well, I never meant to walk home in this way!  I'm sure my feet are
wet.  I wish I had waited and gone with Uncle Regie.'

'Now, Dolly, what do you mean? You would not have it all betrayed?'

'I've a great mind to tell Uncle Regie all about it.'

'Now, Dolly!  When you said so much about the Mohun pride and scorn of
your poor, dear uncle.'

'Uncle Regie is not proud.  And he would know what to do.'

'But,' cried Constance, in a fright, 'you would never tell him!  You
promised that it should be a secret, and I should be in such a dreadful
scrape with Lady Merrifield and Mary.'

'Well! it was your doing, and you had all the pleasure of it,
flourishing about the platform with him.'

'How can you be so disagreeable, Dolores, when you know it was all on
business. Though I do think he is the most interesting man I ever did
see.'

'Just because he flattered you.'

However, there is no need to tell how many cross and quarrelsome things
the two tired friends said to each other.  They were sitting on
opposite sides of the fire, one very gloomy, and the other very
pettish, when the waggonette stopped at the gate, to put out Miss
Hacket and take up Dolores.  Hands pulled her up the step, and a hubbub
of merry voices received her in the dark.

'Good girl, not to keep us waiting.'

'Oh, Dolly, Dolly, Macrae says Uncle Regie's come!'

'Oh, Dolly, it has been such fun!'

'Take care of my parcel!'

'Ah, ha! you don't know what is in there.'

'Here's something under my feet!'

'Oh! take care!  'Tisn't my--'

'Hush, hush, Val--'

And so it went on till on the steps was seen in full light among the
boys, Uncle Reginald, ready to lift every one out with a kiss.'

'Ha!  Dolly, is that you?' he said, as they came into the hall.  'I saw
such a likeness of you at one station that I was as near as possible
jumping out to speak to her.  She had on just that fur tippet!'

'That comes of living in Ireland, Regie,' said Aunt Lily.  'Once in a
shop at Belfast, a lady darted up to me with "And it's I that am glad
to see you, me dear.  And how's me sweet little god-daughter?  Oh! and
it isn't yourself.  And aren't you Mrs. Phelim O'Shaugnessy?'"  And
under cover of this, Dolores retreated to her own room.  She took off
her things, and then looked at the cheque.

Professor Muhlwasser was a clever German, always at work on science,
counting, in the most minute and accurate manner, such details as the
rays in a sea anemone's tentacles, or the eggs in a shrimp's roe.  He
was engaged on a huge book, in numbers, of which Mr. Maurice Mohun had
promised to take two copies--but whereas extravagances upon peculiar
hobbies were apt not to be tolerated in the family, and it was really
uncertain whether the work would ever be completed, Mr. Mohun had
preferred leaving a cheque for the payment in his little daughter's
hand, rather than entrust it to one of the brothers, who would have
howled and growled at such a waste of good money on such a subject.
Thus he had told Dolores to back the draft, get it changed, and send
the amount by a postal order to Germany, if the books and account
should come, which he thought very doubtful.

And now the professor was dead, Dolores looked at the cheque, and
supposed she could do as she pleased with it.  Mother helped Uncle
Alfred.  Yes, but mother earned all she sent him herself!  Perhaps he
would not ask again.  How much more he had talked to Constance than to
herself.  Dolly wished she had not seen him to get into this
difficulty.  She was tired, cold, and damp.  Oh! if she had never gone,
and not been half caught by Uncle Regie!




CHAPTER XII.

A HUNT



Dolores was glad to recollect, when she awoke, that Uncle Reginald was
in the house.  It was as if she had a friend of her own there who might
enter into all the ill-usage she suffered, and whom she could even
consult about Uncle Alfred, so far as she could do so without
disclosing all the underhand correspondence.  She called doing so
betraying Constance, but, in truth, she shrank more from shocking him
with what he might think very wrong--since, after all, he belonged to
that hard-hearted generation of grown-up people who had no feeling nor
understanding of one's troubles.

As she went downstairs she was aware of an increasing hubbub, and
frequently looking over the balusters, perceived the top of Primrose's
wavy head above the close-cropped one of Uncle Regie, as, with her
mounted on his shoulder, he careered round the hall, with a pack of
others vociferating behind him;

There was a lull, for Lady Merrifield came out of her room just as
Dolores had paused; Primrose was put down, the morning salutations took
place, and Dolores had her full share of them.  She was even allowed to
sit next her uncle at breakfast; but her rasher of bacon had not been
half eaten, before she had perceived that, as to possessing him as she
used to do at home, he was just as much everybody else's Uncle Regie as
hers, for during the time of their being stationed at Belfast, he had
been so often with them, that he was quite established as the prince of
playfellows.

'Uncle Regie, will you have a crack at the rabbits tomorrow?  Brown
said we might have a day, and we have been keeping it for you.'

'Uncle Regie, the hounds meet at the Bugle this morning, won't you come
and see them throw off?'

'Oh, let me come too!'  'And me!'  'And me!'

'My dear children,' exclaimed their mother, 'I can't have the whole
tribe of little ones and girls going galloping after your uncle.  You
will only hinder him.'

'No, no, Lily! the more Merrifields, the merrier the field.  I'll drill
them well.  How far off is this Bugle?'

'Not two miles over Furzy Common.'

'Oh! not so far, Hal!'

'That's nothing.  Who is coming?'

A general outbreak of 'Me's' ensued, but mamma laid an embargo on
Primrose, who must stay at home and 'help her,' while Gillian looked
wistful and doubtful, knowing that more efficient help than the little
one's might be desirable.

'You had better go, my dear,' said her mother, 'if you are not tired.
I don't like to send Mysie and Val without some one to turn back with
them if your uncle and the boys want to go further.'

But whereas it was not nearly time to start, Uncle Reginald was dragged
down to inspect all the live stock in the stable-yard, at their
feeding-time, and went off with Val and Primrose clinging to his hands,
and the general rabble surrounding him.

Nothing could have been more alien to Dolores's taste than going out to
a meet on foot through mud and mire--she who hated the being driven out
to take a constitutional walk on the gravel road or the paved path! But
she had some hope that while all the others ran off madly, as was their
wont, she might secure a little rational conversation with Uncle
Reginald.  So she came down in hat and ulster, and was rewarded with
'That's right, Doll; I'm glad to see they have taught you to take
country walks.'

'It is all compliment to you, Uncle Regie,' said Gillian.  'She hates
them generally.'

'Are we all ready?  Where are Japs and Will?'

'Gone to shut up the dogs; and Hal is not coming.'

'Beneath his dignity, eh?'

'I think he has some reading to do,' said Gillian.

'Now mind, Reginald,' said Aunt Lily, coming on the scene, 'you are not
to let those imps drag you farther than you like.  It is a very
different thing, remember, children, from going out with the hounds
like a gentleman.'

'Yes, mamma,' returned Fergus.  'If you would only let me have the
pony!'

'And send home the girls as soon as you find them in the way,' she
added.

'All right,' answered he, and off plunged the party; but Dolores soon
found that she was not to be allowed much of Uncle Reginald's exclusive
society.  He did begin talking to her about her father's voyage, last
letters, and intended departure from Auckland, but Valetta kept fast
hold of his other hand, and the others were all round, every moment
pointing out something--to them noticeable--and telling the story of
some exploit, delighted when their uncle capped it with some boyish
tales of Beechcroft, or with some droll, Irish story.

With such talk, the strong, healthy young folk little heeded the
surface mud or the lanes.  Even Dolores when she heard her father's
name in the reminiscences,' was interested for a time, and was always
hoping that the others would fly off and leave her to her uncle; but
she was much less used to country mud and stout boots than the others,
and she had been very much tired by her expedition on the previous day,
so that she had begun to find the way very long before they came out on
an open green, with a few cottages standing a good way back in their
gardens, and as their centre, one of the great old coaching inns of
past days, now chiefly farmhouse, though a sign, bearing a golden
bugle-horn upon a blue ground, stood aloft in front of it, over the
heads of the speckled mass of tan, black, and white, pervaded with
curved tails, over which the scarlet-coated whips kept guard, while
shining horses, bearing red coats and black coats, boys, and a few
ladies, were moving about, and carriages drew up from time to time.

There was a long standing about, and Colonel Mohun, being a stranger
there himself, kept his flock on the outskirts, only Jasper plunging
in, at sight of a mounted schoolfellow, while Gillian and Mysie told
the names of the few they recognized.  At last there was a move, and
Jasper came back to point out the wood they were going to draw, close
at hand. Should they not all go on and see it?

'Oh! let us! do come, Uncle Regie,' cried Mysie and Val.

'Look here, Gill,' said the uncle, 'this child doesn't look fit to go
any farther.'

'I'm very tired, and so cold,' said Dolores.

'Yes,' said Gillian, 'we ought to go home now.'

Not me! not me;' cried the other two girls; 'Uncle Regie will take care
of us.'

'I think you must come,' said Gillian, 'mamma said you had better come
home when I do.'

'Yes,' said Wilfred, 'we don't want a pack of girls to go and get
tired.'

'We shall go into all sorts of places not fit for you,' said Jasper;
'you wouldn't come back with a whole petticoat among you.'

'And Val would be left stodged in a ditch for a month of Sundays,'
added Wilfred.

'I am afraid we had better part company, Gill,' said the colonel.  'I
would take you on a little further, but this poor little Londoner won't
have a leg to stand upon by the time she gets home.'

'More shame for her to come out to spoil our fun,' muttered Valetta,
too low for her uncle to hear.

'Mamma will think we have gone quite far enough, thank you, uncle,'
said the sage Gillian, 'and I think Fergus had better come too.'

'That he had,' said Jasper.  'Fancy him over Peat Hill.'

'He'll be left behind to be picked up as we come back,' said Wilfred.

'No, no, no!  I can keep up better than you can, Wil!  Take me, Uncle
Regie.'  The little boy was so near a howl that good-natured Colonel
Mohun's heart was touched, and he consented to let him come on, though
Jasper argued, 'You'll have to carry him, uncle.'

'No, I'll make you, master!  Tell your mother not to wait luncheon for
us, Gillian; we'll pick up something somewhere.'

'Hurrah!' cried Wilfred and Fergus, to whom this was an immense
additional pleasure.

The girls turned away into the lane, Valetta indulging in an outrageous
grumble.  'Why should Dolores have come out to spoil everything?'

Dolores did not speak.

'Just our one chance,' sighed Mysie, 'and perhaps we should have seen
the fox.'

'We may do that yet,' said Gillian; 'he may come this way.'

'I don't care if he does,' said Valetta.  'I wanted to see them draw
the copse.  I believe Dolores did it on purpose to spoil our pleasure.'

'Don't be so cross, Val,' said Mysie.  'She can't help being tired.'

'Why did she come, then, when nobody wanted her?'

'For shame, Val,' said Gillian, 'you know mamma would be very angry to
hear you say anything so unkind.'

'It's quite true, though,' muttered Valetta.

'Never mind, Dolly, dear,' said Mysie, shocked.  'Val doesn't really
mean it, you know.'

'Yes, she does,' said Dolores, shaking her comforter off; 'you all do!
I wish I had never come here.'

Mysie tried in her own persevering way to argue again that Val was only
put out, and disappointed at having to turn back, to which Valetta, in
spite of Gillian's endeavour to silence her, added, 'So stupid of her
to come out!  What did she do it for?'

Dolores, who hardly ever cried, was tired into crying now.  'You grudge
me everything; you wouldn't let me speak one single word to Uncle
Regie, and kept bothering about!  I'll never do anything with you
again!  I won't.'

'Did you want to speak to Uncle Regie?' asked Mysie.

'To be sure I did!  He is my uncle, that I knew ever so long before you
did, and you never let him speak to me.'

'Mrs. Halfpenny always put us on the high chair, with our faces to the
wall when we were jealous,' remarked Valetta.

'But did you want to say anything to him in particular?' said Mysie,
revolving means of contriving a private interview.

'That's no business of yours!  I wish you would let me alone!' broke
out Dolores, in a fretful fright lest any one should guess that she had
anything on her mind.

'To make up stories of us, of course,' growled Valetta, but Gillian
here interposed, declaring with authority that if she heard another
word before they reached the paddock gate, she should certainly tell
mother how disgracefully they had been behaving.  When Gillian said
such things she kept her word.  Besides, by way of precaution, she
marched down the muddy middle of the road, with Dolores limping along
the footpath on one side, and Val as far off as possible on the border
of the ditch, on the other; the more inoffensive Mysie keeping by her
side.  They were all weary, and Dolores was very footsore also, by the
time they reached home, at the very moment that the two Misses Hacket
appeared coming up the drive.  Lady Merrifield, having the day before
invited the elder, as the purchases needed to be looked over, and
preparations set in hand, and she did not then know that her brother
was coming.

Dolores scarcely knew whether she was glad to see Constance. She had
many doubts and qualms about that cheque.  And if she had spent any
quiet time alone with her uncle, she might have laid enough of her
trouble before him to get some advice or help; but to ask for an
interview, especially when 'everybody' thought it was to make
complaints, was too uncomfortable and alarming; and she was inclined to
escape from thought of the whole subject altogether by taking action
quickly.

Gillian gave her uncle's message about not waiting; the dirty boots
were taken off in the hall, and Constance followed her friend up to her
room to take off her things.

Dolores sat on the side of her bed, too much tired at first to be
willing to move, Constance's pity elicited tears, and that they had all
been so very unkind to her; they were angry at her getting tired, and
they were jealous of her even speaking to Uncle Regie.  Again this
alarmed Constance, 'You weren't going to tell him about Mr. Flinders--
you know you promised.'

'He knows about him already, and he would tell me what to do.'

'Oh! but that would never do, darling Dolly.  You told me all the
family were hard and unjust, and he would tell Lady Merrifield, and we
should never be allowed to see each other again.  And only think of my
poor little secret!  I didn't think you would have turned from your
poor relation in misfortune for the sake of this grand Colonel.'

The end of it was, that just as the gong was sounding, Dolores handed
over to Constance an envelope directed to Mr. Flinders, and containing
Mr. Maurice Mohun's cheque.  It was off her mind now, she thought, as
she shuffled down to dinner, lookup so pale and uneasy that her aunt
made her have a glass of wine and some gravy soup to begin with, and,
when dinner was over, turned all the parcels off the school-room sofa,
and made her lie upon it during the grand unpacking, which was almost
as charming as the purchasing, perhaps more so, since there was no
comparison with costlier articles.

There was not very much time.  This was Friday and Christmas Day was on
Monday, so there were only two more clear week-days before the birthday
and Miss Hacket would be church-decorating on the morrow; but Lady
Merrifield would not send her daughters to help, as there were plenty
of hands without them, and they were too young to trust in a mixed set,
who were not always sure to be reverent.

Dinner had rested and refreshed them; they rejoiced in the absence of
the man-kind, and Primrose was sent out for her walk while the numerous
boxes and packages were opened, and displayed sconces and tapers, gilt
balls and glass birds, oranges and bon-bons, disguised in every
imaginable fashion. There was a double set of the tapers, and two
relays of devices in sweets, for the benefit of the party of the second
night, a list of whom Miss Hacket had brought, that heads might be
counted, and any deficiency supplied in time through Aunt Jane.  For
Lady Merrifield had commissioned Gillian to lay in--unknown to the good
lady--a stock of such treasures as are valuable indeed to the little
maid: shell pin-cushions, Cinderella slippers holding thimbles, cases
of hair-pins, queer housewives, and the like things, wonderfully pretty
for the price, and which filled the kind heart of Miss Hacket with
rapture and gratitude at such brilliant additions to her own home-made
contrivances in the way of cuffs, comforters, and illuminated workbags,
all beautifully neat; I though it was hard to persuade her of what Lady
Merrifield averred, that such things ought to be far more precious than
brilliant, shop-bought, ready-made ware, 'with no love-seed in it.'

'It is very hard,' she said; 'how fancy shops try to spoil all one used
to be able to do for one's friends.  The purses, and the penwipers, and
the needle-cases that were one's choicest presents in my youth, are all
turned out now smart and tight and fashioned, but without a scrap of
the honest old labour and love that went into them.'

'But papa and mamma do care still,' cried Gillian; 'papa never will
have any purse but the long ones mamma nets for him.'

'And mamma always will have the old brown and blue carriage-bag that
Aunt Phyllis worked,' chimed in Mysie, 'though Claude did say he would
throw it into the sea when we crossed from Dublin for it looked like an
old housekeeper's.'

'Claude was in a superfine condition then--in awe of an old Sandhurst
comrade.  He would be gild enough to see the old brown bag now, poor
fellow,' said Lady Merrifield, tenderly.

So it went on, with merry chat and a good deal of real preparation,
till the early darkness came on, and a great noise in the haul
announced the return of 'the boys,' among whom Lady Merrifield still
classed her colonel brother.  They were muddy up to the eyes, but they
had seen a great deal more than was easy to understand in their
incoherent accounts.  Wilfed had rolled into a wet ditch, and been
picked out by his uncle and hung up to dry at a little village inn,
where--this seemed to have been the supreme glory--they had made a meal
on pigs'-liver and bread-and-cheese before plodding home again--losing
their way under Wilfred's confident pilotage--finding themselves five
miles from home--getting a cast in a cart for the two little boys just
as Fergus was almost ready to cry--Colonel Mohun and Jasper walking
alongside of the carter for two miles, and conversing in a friendly
manner, though the man said he knew the soldier by his step, and
thought it was a pool-trade.  Finally, he directed them by a short cut,
which proved to be through a lane of clay and pools of such an adhesive
nature that Fergus had to be pulled out step by step by main force by
his uncle, who deposited him on some stones at the other end, and then
came back to assist the struggles of Wilfred, who was slowly proceeding
with Jasper's help.

'And that's the way we make you spend your Christmas holiday, Regie,'
said Lady Merrifield.

'Never mind. Lily; mud was a congenial element to us both in old times,
you know, so no wonder your brood take to it like ducks or
hippopotamuses.  I say, we ought to have come in by the rear.  Couldn't
that imp of a buttons of yours come and scrape us before we go
upstairs?'

'You are certainly grown older, Regie.  You never would have thought of
that once.'

'No more would you, Lily--so do yourself justice.'

However, when five o'clock tea was spread in the drawing-room, and the
Hacket ladies came in, Constance beheld such a splendid vision of a
fine, fair, though sunburnt face, long, light moustaches, and tall
figure, that she instantly assumed her most affected graces, and did
not wonder the less that the Mohuns were all so very high.

Dolores's strong desire for a private interview with her uncle died
away when Constance carried off the cheque.  She knew he would tell her
she had no right to give it, and she did not want to be told so, nor to
have any special inquiries made. She was not sorry that an invitation
from a neighbour kept him and Hal out shooting all Saturday, and, on
the other hand, she so far shrank from Constance's talk about Mr.
Flinders as not to be vexed that it was too wet on Sunday afternoon for
any going down to Casement Cottages.

It was on that wet afternoon, however, that Uncle Reginald, crossing
the hall for once without his tail of followers, saw her slowly
dragging downstairs with a book in her hand.

'Well, Miss Doll,' he said; 'you don't look very jolly!  What's the
matter?'

'Nothing, Uncle Regie.'

'I don't believe in nothing.  Here,' sitting down on the stairs, with
an arm round her, 'tell me all about it, Dolly, we are old chums, you
know.  Have you got into a row?'

'Oh no!'

'Is there anything I can put straight?'

'No, thank you, Uncle Regie.'

'There's something amiss!' said the good-natured, puzzled uncle.  'What
is it?  I should have thought you would have got on with these young
folks like--like a house on fire.'

'That's all you know about it,' thought Dolly.  What she said was, 'One
never does.'

'I don't understand that generalization,' answered her uncle; then, as
she did not answer, he added, 'I am sure your Aunt Lily is very anxious
to make you happy.  Have you anything to complain of?'

'No,' said Dolores, 'I don't complain of anything.'

She was thinking of Valetta's notion that she wanted to 'make up
stories of them,' and therefore she said it in a manner which conveyed
that she had a good deal to complain of, if she would, though really
she would have been a good deal puzzled to produce a grievance that a
man like Uncle Reginald would understand, though she had plenty for
sympathy like Constance's.

However, it was not to be expected that a private conference should
last long in that house, and Mysie appeared at that moment, looking for
her cousin, to say that 'Mamma was ready for her.'  Dolores went off
with more alacrity than usual, and Uncle Reginald beckoned up his other
niece, and observed: 'I say, Mysie, what's the matter with Dolly?'

'She is always like that, uncle,' answered Mysie.

'Don't you hit it off with her, then?'

'I can't, uncle,' said Mysie, looking up, with a sudden wink now and
then to stop her tears.  'I thought we should have been such friends;
but she won't let me.  I didn't mean to be stupid and disagreeable,
like the girls in 'Ashenden Schoolroom,' but she doesn't care for
anybody but Miss Constance and Maude Sefton.'

'I hope you are all very kind to her,' said Uncle Reginald, rather
wistfully.

'We try,' said Mysie, who was not going to betray Wilfred and Valetta,
and could honestly say so of herself and Gillian.

And there again came an interruption, in the shape of Gillian.  'Mysie,
mamma says we may finish up our sacred illuminated cards, for it will
be Sunday work.'

'Oh, jolly!' cried Mysie, jumping up.  'And will you give me one rub of
your real good carmine Gilly-flower, dear.'

'And of my ultramarine, too,' responded Gillian, wherewith the two
sisters disappeared, radiant with goodwill and gratitude; while poor
Uncle Reginald, who had intended to devote this wet Sunday afternoon to
writing to his brother that Dolores was perfectly happy and thriving in
Lily's care, and like a sister to his other favourite, Mysie, remained
disappointed and perplexed, wondering whether the poor little maiden
were homesick, or whether no children could be depended on for kindness
when out of sight, and deciding that he should defer his letter till he
had seen a little more, and talked to his sister Jane, who could see
through a milestone any day.

It was understood that mamma preferred home-made cards to bought ones,
so there was always a great manufacture of them in the weeks previous
to Christmas, the comparative failures being exchanged among the
younger members.

The presents were always reserved for Valetta's birthday and the tree,
and this rendered the circulation of the cards doubly interesting. In
the immediate family alone, there were thirteen times thirteen, besides
those coming from, and going to outsiders, so that it was as well that
a good many should be of domestic manufacture, either with pencil and
brush, or of tiny leaves carefully dried and gummed.  And mamma had
kept an album, with names and dates, into which all these home efforts
were inserted, and nothing else!  This year's series began with a
little chestnut curl of Primrose's hair, fastened down on a card by
Gillian, and rose to a beautiful drawing of a blue Indian Lotus lily,
with a gorgeous dragon-fly on it, sent by Alethea.  The Indian party
had sent a card for every one--the girls, beautiful drawings of birds,
insects, and scenery; the brother, a bundle of rice-paper figured with
costumes, and papa, some clever pen-and-ink outlines of odd figures,
which his daughters beguiled from him in his leisure moments!

As to the home circle, it is enough to say that their performances were
highly satisfactory to the makers, and were rewarded by mamma's kisses,
and the text or verse she had secretly illuminated for each.  She had
no time to do more, and the series were infinitely prized and laid up
as treasures.  There were plenty of ornamental cards from without to be
admired: the Brighton and Beechcroft aunts; the Stokesley cousins, and
whole multitudes of friends pouring them in as usual; so that the
entire review seemed to occupy all those free moments of the Christmas
Day, when the young folks were neither at church, nor at meals, nor
singing carols themselves, nor hearing the choir sing in the hall, nor
looking over photograph books and hearing old family stories. This last
occupation was received in the family as the regular evening pleasure,
ending in all singing, 'When shepherds watch their flocks by night.'

Dolores had a card from her aunt and each of her cousins, besides one
of the parcel Uncle Reginald had brought.  She did not think enough of
the very bad drawing and smeared painting of the ambitious attempts she
received, to feel at all disconcerted at having no reciprocity to
offer.  The only cards she had sent were to Constance Hacket, to
Fraulein, and to Maude Sefton--the last with a sore sense of the long
interval since she had heard.

However, there was a card from Maude, but it was a very poor one,
looking very much like a last year's possession, and the letter was not
much better, being chiefly an apology for having been too busy to
write.  Maude was going to lectures with Nona Styles--Nona was such a
darling girl--and breaking off because she was wanted to rehearse
Cinderella with this same darling Nona.

It made Dolores's heart go down farther, though there was a beautiful
and unexpected card from Mrs. Sefton, one from her former servant,
Caroline, also from Fraulein, and three or four from old friends of her
mother, who had remembered the solitary girl.  In truth, she had more
beautiful ones than anybody else, but she kept these in their
envelopes, and showed herself so much averse to free fingering and
admiration of them that Lady Merrifield had to call off Valetta, remind
her that her cousin had a right to her own cards, and hear in return
that Dolores was so cross.

'Dolly,' said Uncle Reginald, in a low voice, since he was permitted to
look over the cards with her, 'I think I have found out part of your
troubles.'

She looked at him in alarm.

He put his finger on a card bearing the words, 'Goodwill to men.'

'Umph,' said she.  'I don't want everything of mine messed and spoilt.'

And as his eye fell on Fergus's cards, he felt there was reason in what
she said.

Aunt Lily had taken her for a quarter of an hour that morning, trying
to infuse the real thought underlying the joy that makes it Christmas,
not only yule-tide.  But it all fell flat--it was all lessons to her--
imposed on her on a day that she had not been used to see made what she
called 'goody.'  Last year her father had shut himself up after church,
and she had spent the evening in noisy mirth with the Seftons.




CHAPTER XIII.

AN EGYPTIAN SPHYNX



Aunt Adeline was afraid of winter journeys as well as of the tumultuous
festivities of Silverton; so at twelve o'clock.  Colonel Mohun drove
the pony-carriage to meet the little trim Brownie who stepped out of
the station, the porter carrying behind her a huge thing, long, and
swathed in brown paper.  'It is quite light; it won't hurt,' she said,
'It must go with us.  Put your legs across it, Regie.  That's right.'

'Then what becomes of yours?'

'Mine can go anywhere,' said Miss Mohun, crumpling herself up in some
mysterious manner under the fur rug, while they drove off, her luggage
sticking far off on either side of the splashboard.

'What, in the name of wonder, are you smuggling in there?'

'If you must know, it is the body of a mummy over whose dissection you
will have to assist.'

'Ah!  Rotherwood is coming.'

'Rotherwood!'

'And his little girl.  Just like him.  Lily gets a note this morning
from London, telling her to telegraph if she can't have them by the
5.20 train.  I've just been ordering a fly.  It seems that Lady
Rotherwood, going to meet Ivinghoe at the station, coming from school,
found he had measles coming out!  So they packed off his sister to
Beechcroft without having seen him, and thence Rotherwood took her to
London.'

'And is having a fine frolic with her, no doubt; but he might as well
have given Lily more notice, considering that a marquess or two makes
more difference to her household than it does to his.'

'Oh! she is glad enough, only in some trepidation as to how Mrs.
Halfpenny may receive the unspecified maid that the child may bring.'

'How jolly we shall be! I wish Ada had come.'

'I tried to drag her out, but it gets harder and harder to shake her
up.  You must come back with me and see her.'

'I say, Jane, have you seen Maurice's child lately?'

'Not very.  She wouldn't come with the others last week.'

'What do you think about her?  I thought leaving her with Lily would
have been the making of her.  Indeed, I told Maurice there could not be
a better brought up set anywhere than the Merrifields, and that Lily
would mother her like one of her own; and now I find her moping about,
looking regularly down in the mouth.  I got hold of her one day and
tried to find out what was the matter, but she only said she would not
complain. Can they bully her?'

'I'll tell you what, Maurice, Lily is a great deal too kind to her. She
has a kind of temper that won't let them make friends with her.'

'Come now! She was a nice jolly little girl at home. She and I have had
no end of larks together, and it is hard to blame her for fretting
after her home, poor child--Aye! I know you never liked her, or she
might have done better with you and Ada than turned in among a lot of
imps.'

'I'm thankful it was otherwise!'

'Now do, Jane, set your mind to it. Don't be prejudiced, but make those
sharp eyes of some use. I really feel bound to give Maurice an account
of Dolly, and tell him what is best for her.'

'I believe,' said Jane, 'that there is some counter-influence at work,
and I am trying to find it out; but, after all, I believe patience is
the only thing, and that Lily will conquer her if nobody meddles.'

''Tis not Lily I am afraid of, but her children.'

'Nonsense, Regie; one would think you had never been turned loose into
school to be licked into shape.'

'She is a girl, not a cub like me.'

'A worse cub, for she has not your temper, sir, and, moreover, you had
had the wholesome discipline of a large family. Besides, nobody teases
but Wilfred. Gillian and Mysie behave like angels to the tiresome
puss.'

'Well, I'm bound to believe you, Jenny, but I don't like the looks of
it.'

Aunt Jane's mysterious parcel was greeted rapturously, and conveyed
into the dining-room, which had a semi-circular end, filled with glass,
and capable of being shut off with heavy curtains when the season made
snugness desirable. This bay had been set apart from the first for her
operations, the tree, whose second season it was, having been taken up
and already erected in the centre of the room, not much the worse for
last year's excursion, for, if rather stunted, that was all the better.
No one was excluded from the decoration thereof, since that was the
best part of the sport to those too old for the mystery--and yet young
enough to fasten sconces where their candles would infallibly set fire
to the twigs above them. The only defaulters were Jasper, who had
preferred going down to the meadows with his gun; and Dolores, who had
retired to the drawing-room with a book, on having a paper star removed
from immediate risk of conflagration. 'They were determined not to let
her help,' she said.

So she only emerged when the workers halted for a merry, hurried meal
in the schoolroom, where Jasper appeared, very late, very cross at
having had to make himself fit to be seen, and, likewise, at having
brought home no spoil, the snipes having been so malicious as to escape
him. Having sallied forth before the post came in, it was only now that
it broke on him that visitors were expected, and he did not like it at
all.

'I thought we had got rid of a11 the enemy!' he growled, at his end of
the table.

'That's what he calls Constance.' thought Dolores.

'Polite,' observed Gillian.

'This will be worse still, being lord and ladies grumbled on Jasper, 'I
hate swells.'

'Oh! but these aren't like horrid, common, fine lords and ladies,'
cried Mysie; 'why, you know all mamma's old stories about the fun they
had with cousin Rotherwood.

'What's the good of that!  That's a hundred years ago.  He'll just make
mamma and Uncle Regie of no good at all! And then there's a girl too--'
(in a tone of inconceivable disgust)  'I don't want strange girls--an
awful stuck-up swell of a Londoner, not able to do anything!  I wish I
had gone to spend Christmas with Bruce!  I would if I had known it was
to be like this.'

The speech brought Mysie to the verge of tears.  Aunt Jane's sharp ears
heard it, and she looked at the head of the table, expecting to hear a
rebuke; but Lady Merrifield turned a deaf ear on that side.  Only after
the meal, she called her son, 'Jasper,' she said, 'I want to send a
note to Redford, if you like to ride over with it.  You need not come
home till eight o'clock, if it is moonlight, it the boys are
disengaged, and if you do really wish to keep out of the way.'

Jasper's eyes fell under hers.

'Mamma, I don't want that.'

'Only you said more than you meant, Japs. If it relieves your mind, it
hurts other people. But I do want the note taken, so go and come back
in time for the sports; which I don't think you will find much
damaged.'

Meantime, Aunt Jane had ensconced herself behind the curtains; where
she admitted no one but Miss Vincent and Uncle Reginald, and in process
of time, mamma and Macrae. The others were still fully employed in
garnishing the tree, though it was only to bear lights, ornaments and
sweets. All solid articles had been for some time past committed to a
huge box, or ottoman, the veteran companion of the family travels,
which stood in the centre of the bay. Into its capacious interior
everybody had been dropping parcels of various sizes and shapes, with
addresses in all sorts of hands, which were to find their destination
on this great evening.  This was part of the mystery that kept Mysie
and Valetta in one continual dance and caper. It was all they could do
not to peep between the curtains when the privileged mortals went in
and out, bearing all sorts of mysterious loads well covered up from all
eyes.  Wilfred did make one attempt, but something extraordinary
snapped at his nose, with a sharp crack, and drove him back with a
start.

A lamp had been taken thither, and there really was nothing more to do
to the tree, the scraps of packing had been picked up, and the hands,
tingling from fir-needle pricks, had been washed, though not without
protest from Valetta that it wasn't worth while, and from Wilfred that
it was all along of these horrid swells--!

The sound of wheels summoned Lady Merrifield and her brother from the
place of mystery, and they were in the hall when a fresh gust of keen
air came in from the door, an ulstered figure hurried in, and something
small and furred was put into the lady's embrace.

'Here's my Fly, Lily--! Look, Fly, here they all are--all the cousins.
Off with the hat. Let us see your funny little face.'

It was a funny little smiling face, set in short, light, wavy hair, not
exactly pretty, but with a bright, quaint, confiding look, as if used
to be shown off by her father, and ready to make friends on the spot.
'And how is your boy?' as the round of greetings was completed, and the
wraps thrown off.

'Going on capitally, better than he deserves, the young scamp, for
suppressing all symptoms for fear he should be hindered from coming
home. His mother was in a proper fright, she showed him to the doctor
on the way, who told her to put him to bed at once, and send his sister
out of the house. She never set eyes on him, or I would not have
brought her here.'

'I am exceedingly glad you have,' said Lady Merrifield, bending for
another kiss.

'And Lily, I've done another awful thing. Victoria kept old nurse to
help with Ivinghoe, and we brought the Swiss bonne, Louise, away with
us, but the poor thing found her sister very ill in London, and I
hadn't the heart to bring her away, so Phyllis said she would do for
herself, if your maid, or some of them, would have an eye to her.'

'There! I'm doubly glad, Rotherwood! If I had any fears it was not of
you, or Phyllis; but that like Vich Ian Vhor, she should have her tail
on. And, oh! Rotherwood, do you know what you are in for?'

'High jinks of some sort, I've no doubt. We picked up a couple of boxes
at Gunter's and Miller's with a view thereto. Who is master of the
revels?'

'Jane. She's too deep in preparations to come forth at present.
Gillian, will you take Phyllis to the nursery, and take care of her. We
are to have a very high tea at half-past six; but, Rotherwood, I
promise that another day you shall have a respectable dinner in this
house.'

'Return to the prose of life, eh, Lily? Well, Fly, what do you think of
it?'

'Oh, daddy, aren't you glad we came?' she cried, dancing off, in
Gillian's wake, arm-in-arm with Mysie and Valetta, while he called
after her, 'Find the boxes, and make them over to the right quarter.'

This was enough to make the whole bevy of children rush away, and only
the three elders remained. Lord Rotherwood said, 'This is short notice.
Lily; but I did not know Reginald was here, and I thought you might
want help. Don't be frightened, only a queer thing has happened. I went
to W.'s bank yesterday. I thought they looked at me as if something was
up, and by-and-by one of the partners came and took me into his private
room.  There he showed me a cheque, and asked my opinion whether the
writing was Maurice's. And I should say it decidedly was, but it was
actually for seventy pounds, payable to order of Miss Dolores M.
Mohun.'

'Seventy!'

'Yes, and dated the 19th of August.'

'Just before Maurice went.'

There was a sudden silence, for the door opened; but it was to admit
Miss Mohun, who began, 'Oh! Rotherwood, you are too munificent. Why,
what's the matter?' Lady Merrifield hastily explained, as far as she
yet understood, what had brought him.

'How did they get the cheque?' she asked.

'Sent up from the country bank where it had been cashed--Darminster.'

'Ah!' came from both the aunts.

Lord Rotherwood went on. 'They asked me who Miss Dolores Mohun was, and
I could do no otherwise than tell them, and likewise where to find her,
but I explained that she is a mere child; and I told them I would come
down here, so I hope you will have as little annoyance as possible.'

'It is very good of you, Rotherwood, but I can't understand it at all.
Was her name on the back?'

'Certainly; I told them I thought the whole thing must be a well got up
forgery, and a confidential clerk was to go down today to Darminster to
try to find out who gave it in there.'

'Darminster! Flinders!' ejaculated Miss Mohun.

'Regie,' exclaimed Lady Merrifield; 'what did you say about having seen
some one like Dolores at Darminster station?'

'I was nearly jumping out after her. I should have said it was herself,
if it had not been impossible. Why she was with you at Rockstone, and
it was a pouring, dripping day,' said the colonel.

'No, she was not. She begged to spend the day with Constance Hacket,
and we picked her up as we came home. Poor child, what has she been
doing? I have not looked after her properly.'

'But need she have had anything to do with it?' said Colonel Mohun.
'How should a cheque of Maurice's come into her possession?'

'She did tell me,' said Lady Merrifield,' that her father had left one
with her to pay for some German scientific book that might be sent for
him.'

'I see, then!' cried Miss Mohun. 'That wretch Flinders must have got
into communication with her, and induced her to fill up her father's
cheque for him.'

'But why should it be Flinders?' said Lord Rotherwood.

'Jane found out that he is living at Darminster, and has been trying to
put me on my guard,' returned Lady Merrifield.

'It is all that fellow Flinders, depend upon it,' said Colonel Mohun.
'He is quite capable of it, and you'll find poor Dolly has nothing to
do with it. Quite preposterous. And look here, Lily, let the poor child
alone to enjoy herself tonight. Most likely Rotherwood's clerk, or
detective, or whatever he may be, will have ferreted out the rights of
the matter at Darminster. I sincerely hope he will, and have Flinders
in custody, and then you would have upset her and accused her all for
nothing.'

'I am glad you think so, Regie,' said Lady Merrifield. 'I am thankful
enough to wait, and hope it will be explained without spoiling the
children's evening.'

'All right,' said the visitor; 'I only hope I have not spoilt yours.'

'Oh! one learns to throw things off. I shall believe it is all
Flinders, and none of it the child's,' said Lady Merrifield, carefully
avoiding a glance that could show her any gesture of dissent on the
part of her sister, and only looking up for her brother's nod of
approval. 'Besides, how foolish it would be to worry myself when I have
two such protectors! It was very good in you, Rotherwood, I only hope
we shall take good care of your Fly, and that her mother will be
satisfied about her.'

'She knew the little woman and I should have a lark together,' said he.
'The governess was safe out of reach, holiday-making, so I could have
her all to myself. Victoria suggested her brother's, and we must go
there before we have done, but business and the pantomime by good luck
took us to London first. So when I wrote to you from the bank, I also
let her know that I was obliged to take the little woman down here
first. I couldn't take her to High Court till Louise is available
again.'

'So much the better, I'm sure.'

'And what I was going to say is, that Rotherwood has been startlingly
munificent and splendid,' said Aunt Jane. 'We shall have a set of new
surprises.'

'I don't in the least know what I brought. I only told each of them to
put up such a box as they sent out for Christmas concerns. Do precisely
what you please with them.'

'Come and see, Lily, for I think there will be enough to reserve a
fresh lot of things for Miss Hacket's affair. By-the-by, Regie, did you
say it rained at Darminster?'

'Poured all the way down.'

'Well, we had it quite fine.'

'Was it fine here?'

'Yes, certainly,' said Lady Merrifield,' or Primrose would not have
gone out. Take care of Rotherwood, Regie. You know his room.'

And the two sisters crossed the hall, where the 'very high tea' was
being laid; hearing from the regions above sounds of exquisite glee and
merriment, as perfect and almost as inexpressive of anything else as
the singing of birds, so that they themselves could not help answering
with a laugh, before they vanished into the chamber of mystery.

Indeed, Phyllis's conversation was like a fairy tale. Her brother's
illness, which was not enough to damp any one's spirits, had prevented
or hindered a grand children's party as the Butterfly's Ball, where she
was to have been the Butterfly, and Lord Ivinghoe the Grasshopper, and
all the children were to appear as one of the characters in Roscoe's
pretty poem. Never was anything more delightful to the imagination of
the little cousins, and they could not marvel enough at her seeming so
little uneasy about anything so charming, and quite ready and eager to
throw herself headlong into all their present enjoyments, making
wonderful surmises as to the mystery in preparation.

Dolores heard the laughing, and it did not suit with her vaguely uneasy
and injured frame of mind; feeling dreadfully lonely too, as she came
downstairs, dressed for the evening, but not knowing where to go, for
the dining-room was engrossed, the schoolroom was dark and the fire
out, the drawing-room occupied by the two gentlemen. She crouched down
in one of the big arm-chairs on either side of the hearth in the hall,
and began to read by the firelight. Presently Jasper came in from his
ride, and began taking off his greatcoat, leggings, and boots,
whistling as he did so, then, perceiving the tempting object of a black
leg sticking out of the chair, he stole up across the soft carpet, and
caught hold of the ankle. He received a vigorous kick in return (which
perhaps he expected) but what he did not expect was the black figure
that rose up in outraged dignity and indignation. 'For shame! I won't
be insulted!'

'Whew! I thought 'twas Val! I beg your pardon.'

'I shall ask my aunt if I am to be insulted.'

'Well, if you choose to take it in that way--A man can't do more than
beg pardon! I'm sure I would never have presumed to touch you if I had
known it was your Dolorousness.'

And he turned to walk away, just as the babbling ripple of laughter
began to flow downstairs, and a whole mass of little girls intertwined
together was descending. 'I always hop,' said a voice new to him,
'except on the great staircase, and mother doesn't like it there. But
this is such a jolly stair. Can't you hop?'

Hopping in a threefold embrace on a slippery stair was hardly a safe
pastime, and before Jasper had time to utter more than' Holloa there!
take care!' there descended suddenly on him an avalanche of little
girls, 'knocking him off his feet, so that all promiscuously rolled
down two or three steps together. Fergus and Primrose, who had somehow
been holding on behind,' remained upright, but nevertheless screaming.
The shrieks of the fallen were, however, laughter. There was a soft rug
below, and by the time the gentlemen had rushed out of the dining-room,
and the ladies from the curtained recess, giggling below and legs above
were chiefly apparent.

'Any one hurt?' was of course Lady Merrifield's cry.

'Oh no, mamma. Only we are so mixed up we can't get up,' called out
Mysie.

'Is this arm you or me?' exclaimed Phyllis, following up the joke.

'Come, sort yourselves, ladies and gentlemen,' said Lord Rotherwood.
'What's this, a Fly's wing?'

'No, it's mine,' cried Val, as his hand pulled her out, and the others
extricated themselves, still laughing, go that they could hardly stand,
and Fly declaring, 'Oh, daddy, daddy, it is such fun! I am so glad we
came,' and taking a gratuitous leap into the air.

'Every one to her taste,' said Lady Merrifield, 'I congratulate those
to whom a compound tumble-down-stairs is felicity.'

'She has found her congenial element, you see,' said her father, as the
elders proceeded upstairs to their toilette.' 'Tis laughing-gas with
her to be with other children, and the most laughingest of all are
naturally yours, old Lily.'

Meanwhile Jasper, risen on his stocking soles, looked all over at the
little figure, dressed old picture fashion, in the simplest white frock
with blue sash, and short-cut hair tied back with blue.

'Well, you are a jolly little girl,' he said, 'and a cool customer,
too! What do you mean by knocking a fellow over the first time you see
him?'

'And what do you mean by coming like a great--huge--big elephant in our
way to stop up the stairs?' demanded Fly, in return.

'Do you mean to insinivate that 'twas I that made you fall?' said
Jasper--'I, that was quietly walking up the stairs, when down there
came on me a shower--not cats and dogs, but worserer, far worserer!
Why, I'm kilt! my nose is flat as a pancake, I shan't recover my beauty
all the evening for the great swells that are coming.'

'Jasper, Japs,' called his mother's warning voice, 'you must come up
and dress, for tea is going in.'

He obeyed, rushing two steps at a time; but meeting, at the bottom of
the attic flight, his sister Gillian, he demanded, 'Gill, what awfully
jolly little girl have they got down there?'

'Why, Fly, of course, Lady Phyllis Devereux--'

'No, no, nothing swell, a comical little soul, with no nonsense about
her, in a white thing.'

'Well, that's Phyllis. There's no one else there.'

'I say. Gill, 'tis like sunshine and clouds. She and the other, I mean.
Why, I gave a little pull to a foot I saw in the armchair, thinking it
belonged to Val, and out breaks my Lady of the Rueful Countenance,
vowing she'll complain that I've insulted her; and as to the other, the
whole lot of them tumbled over me together on the stairs, and she did
nothing but laugh and chaff.'

'I hope she is not a romp,' said the staid Gillian, sagely, as she went
downstairs.

But on that score she was soon satisfied. Phyllis Devereux was a
thorough little lady, wild and merry as she was, and enchanted to be in
the rare fairyland of child companionship. And that indeed she had,
Mysie and Valetta, between whose ages she stood, hung to her
inseparably, and Jasper was quite transformed from his grim
superciliousness into her devoted knight. At tea-time there was a
competition for the seats next to her, determined by Valetta's taking
one side, in right of the birthday, and Jasper the other, because he
secured it, and Mysie gave way to him because he was Japs, and she
always did. While Dolores laid up a store of moralizings on the
adulation paid to the little lady of title, and at the same time
speculated what concatenation of circumstances could ever make her Lady
Dolores Mohun. On the whole, it would be more likely that her father
should gain a peerage by putting down a Fijian rebellion than that it
should be discovered that his mother, Lady Emily, had been the true
heiress of the marquessate, and even so, an uncomfortable number of
people must be disposed of before it could come to him. She had one
consolation, however, for Uncle Reginald, always kind to her, was
particularly affectionate this evening, as if he would not have that
little foolish Fly set up before her.

The tea and the tree both went off joyously. There is no need to
describe the spectacle to folks who can count their Christmas-trees by
the years of their life and the memorable part of this one was that
much of the fruit that had been left hanging on it was now
metamorphosed into something much more gorgeous--oranges had become
eggs full of sugar-plums, gutta-percha monkeys grinned on the branches,
golden flowers had sprung to life on the ends of the twigs, a lovely
jewel-like lantern crowned the whole, and as to sweets, everybody-
servants and all--had some delightful devices containing them, whether
drum, bird, or bird's nest.

Before the distribution was over, it was observed that Aunt Jane and
Uncle Reginald, also Harry, had vanished from the scene. There was a
pause, during which such tapers as began to burn perilously low, were
extinguished, an operation as delightful apparently as the fixing them.
Presently a horn was heard, and a start or shudder of mysterious
ecstasy pervaded the audience, as a tall figure came through the
curtains, and announced:

'Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that a fresh
discovery has been made in the secret chambers of the Pyramid of Chops,
otherwise known as Te-Gun-Ter-ra. A mummy has been disinterred, which
is about to be opened by the celebrated Egyptologist, Herr Professor
Freudigfeldius, who has likewise discovered the means of making such a
conjuration of the Sphynx that she will not only summon each of the
present company by name, but will require of each of them to reply to a
question. The penalty of a refusal is well known!'

Therewith the curtains were drawn back, and a scene was presented which
made some of the spectators start. Behind was the semblance of a wall
marked with the joints of large stones, and lighted (apparently) with
two brass lamps. On the floor lay extended an enormous mummy, with the
regulation canvas case, and huge flaps of ears, between which appeared
a small, painted face, and below lay a long, gaily coloured scroll in
hieroglyphics. Exalted stiffly in a seat placed on a seeming block of
stone, was a figure, with elbows, as it were glued to its sides, and
hands crossed, altogether stone-coloured and monumental, and with the
true Sphynx head, surrounded with beetles, lizards, and other mystic
creatures (very chocolate-coloured). And beside her stood the Herr
Professor, in a red fez, long dark gown, and spectacles, a flowing
beard concealing the rest of his face. How delightful to see such an
Egyptologist! Even though one perfectly knew the family beard and fez;
also that the gown was papa's old dressing-gown, captured for the
theatrical wardrobe. And how grand to hear him speak, even though his
broken English continually became more vernacular.

'Liebes Herrschaft,' he began, 'I would, nobles, gentry, and ladies
say. You here see the embalmed rests of the celebrated monarch Nic-nac-
ci-no. Lately up have I them graben, and likewise his tutelar Sphynx
have found, and have even to give signs of animation compelled.'

Touching the effigy with his wand, she emitted certain growls and
hisses, which made Primrose hide her face in alarm at anything so
uncanny, and Lord Rotherwood observe--

'Nearly related to the cat-goddess Pasht; I thought so.'

'There was something of the lion or cat in the Sphynx,' said Gillian,
gravely, while the three little girls clasped each other's hands with
delightful thrills of awe and expectation.

'Observe,' continued the Professor, 'the outer case with the features
of the deceased is painted. I should conclude that King Nic-nac,
etcetera, had been of a peculiarly jolly--I mean frolich--nature,
judging by the grin on his face. We proceed--'

As he laid his hand on the wrapper, the Sphynx gave utterance to sounds
so like the bad language of a cat that some looked round for one. The
Professor waved at her, and she subsided. He turned back the covering,
and demanded, 'Will the amiable Fraulein there. Mademoiselle Valetta,
come and see what treasures she can discover in the secrets of the
tomb?'

Val, who in right of her birthday, had expected the first call, jumped
up, but the Sphynx made awful noises as she advanced, and the Professor
explained that she would have to answer the Sphynx's question first.

'But I don't know Egyptian,' she observed.

'Never mind, it will sound like English.'

It did so, for it was, 'How many months old art thou, maiden?'

Val's arithmetic was slightly scared. She clasped her hand nervously,
and was indebted to the Professor for the sotto voce hint, 'twelve
nines,' before she uttered 'a hundred and eight.'

The Sphynx relapsed into stoniness, and the Herr Professor guided the
hands, which trembled a little, to the interior of the mummy, whence
they drew out a basket, labelled (wonderful to relate) 'Val,' and
containing--oh! such treasures, a blue egg full of needlework
implements, a new book, an Indian ivory case, a skipping-rope, a
shuttlecock, and other delights past description. The exhibition of
them was only beginning when the Professor called for Primrose, who was
too much frightened to come alone, and therefore was permitted to be
brought by Mrs. Halfpenny. The Sphynx was particularly amiable on this
occasion, and only asked 'When Primroses came?' and as the little one,
in her shy fright did not reply, nurse did so, with, 'Come, missie,
can't you find a word to tell that mamma's Primrose came in spring.'
This was allowed to pass, and Mrs. Halfpenny bore off her child,
clutching a doll's cradle, stuffed with pretty things, and for herself
a bundle wrapped up in a shawl from Sir Jasper himself.

After Primrose was gone to bed, the Sphynx became much more ill-
tempered and demonstrative, snarling considerably at the approach of
some of the party, some of whom replied with convulsive laughter, some,
such as Jasper, with demonstrations of 'poking up the Sphynx.' She had
a question for everybody--Fly was asked, 'Which was best, a tree or a
Butterfly's ball?' and answered, with truthful politeness, that where
Mysie and Val were was best of all. She carried off a collection that
had hastily been made of Indian curiosities, photographs of her two
friends, and a book; and her father, after being asked, 'What was the
best of insects?' and replying,  'On the whole, I think it is my house-
fly, even when she isn't a butterfly,' received a letter-weight of
brass, fashioned like an enormous fly, which Lady Merrifield had
snatched up from the table for the purpose. The maids giggled at the
well-known conundrums proposed to them, and Dolores had a very easy
question --'  What was the weather this day week?'

'A horrid wet day,' she promptly answered, and found herself endowed
with a parcel containing some of the best presents of all, bangles from
the Indian box, a beautiful pair of stork-like scissors, a writing-
case, etc.

'The Sphynx's invention is running low,' observed Jasper to Gillian,
when the creature put the same question about last week's weather to
Herbert, the page-boy, as a prelude to his discovering the treasures of
the mummy, as a knife and an umbrella. His view of the weather was that
it was 'A fine day ma'am! yes, a fine day.'

Macrae came last, and the Sphynx asked him which of the two contrary
views was right.

'It was fine, ma'am, that I know. For I walked down with nurse, and
little Miss Primrose into Silverton, to help to carry her in case she
was tired, and we never had occasion to put up an umbrella.'

Wherewith Macrae received his combination of gifts and retired; the
mummy being completely rifled, and the construction of the body, a
frame of light, open wicker-work, revealed. Aunt Jane had had it made
at the basketmaker's, while as to the head and covering, her own
ingenious fingers had painted and fashioned them. Everybody had to look
at everybody's presents, a lengthened operation, and then there was a
splendid game at blindman's-buff in the hall, in which all the elders
joined, except mamma, who had to go and sit in the nursery with the
restless and excited Primrose while Mrs. Halfpenny and Lots went down
to the servants' festivity.

When she came down again, it was to quiet the tempest of merriment, and
send off the younger folks in succession to bed, till only the four
elders and Hal remained on the scene, waiting till there was reason to
think the household would be ready for prayers.

'It was Dolores that you saw at Darminster, Reginald,' said Miss Mohun,
quietly.

'You Sphynx woman, how do you know?'

'You said it was raining at Darminster.'

'Yes, that it was, everywhere beyond the tunnel through the Darfield
hills.'

'Exactly, I know they make a line in the rainfall. Well, here it was
dry, but Dolores called it a wet day.'

'Now I call that too bad, Jane, to lay a trap for the poor child in the
game,' cried Colonel Mohun, just as if they had still been boy and girl
together.

'It was to satisfy my own mind,' she said, colouring a little. 'I
didn't want any one to act on it. Indeed, I think there will be no
occasion.'

'Besides,' he added, 'it is nothing to go upon! No doubt, if it wasn't
raining, it was the next thing to it here, and bow was she to recollect
at this distance of time? I won't have her caught out in that way!'

'I am glad she has a champion, Regie,' said Lady Merrifield. 'Here come
the servants.'




CHAPTER XIV.

A CYPHER AND A TY.



Dolores was coming down to breakfast the next morning when Colonel
Mohun's door opened. He exclaimed, 'My little Dolly, good morning!'
stooped down and kissed her.

Then, standing still a moment, and holding her hand, he said--

'Dolly, it was not you I saw at Darminster station?'

It was a terrible shock.  Some one, no doubt, was trying to set him
against her.  And should she betray Constance and her uncle? At any
rate, almost before she knew what she was saying, 'No, Uncle Regie,'
was out of her mouth, and her conscience was being answered with 'How
do I know it was me that he saw? these fur capes are very common.'

'I thought not,' he answered, kindly. 'Look here, Dolly, I want one
word with you. Did your father ever leave anything in charge with you
for Mr. Flinders? Did he ever speak to you about him?'

'Never,' Dolores truly answered.

'Because, my dear, though it's a hard thing to say, and your poor
mother felt bound to him, he is a slippery fellow--a scamp, in fact,
and if ever he writes to you here, you had better send the letter
straight off to me, and I'll see what's to be done. He never has, I
suppose?'

'No,' said Dolores, answering the word here, and foolishly feeling the
involvement too great, and Constance too much concerned in it for her
to confess to her uncle what had really happened. Indeed, the first
falsehood held her to the second; and there was no more time, for Lord
Rotherwood was coming out of his room further down the passage. And
after the greetings, as she went downstairs before the two gentlemen,
she was sure she heard Uncle Regie say, 'She's all right.' What could
it mean? Was a storm averted? or was it brewing? Could that spiteful
Aunt Jane and her questions about the weather be at the bottom of it?

The fun that was going on at breakfast seemed a mere roar of folly to
her, and she had an instinct of nothing but getting away to Constance.
She soon found that there would be opportunity enough, for the tree was
to be taken down in a barrow, and all the youthful world was to carry
down the decorations in baskets, and help to put them on. She dashed
off among the first to put on her things, and then was disappointed to
find that first all the pets were to be fed and shown off to Fly, who
appreciated them far more than she had done--knew how to lay hold of a
rabbit, nursed the guinea-pigs and puppies in turn, and was rapturous
in her acceptance of two young guinea-pigs and one puppy.

'I can keep them up in daddy's dressing-room while we are at High
Court, and it will be such fun,' she said.

'Will he let you?' asked Gillian, in some doubt.

'Oh! daddy will always let me, and so will Griffin--his man, you know,
only we left him in London because daddy said he would be in your
butler's way, but I can't think why. Griffin would have helped about
the tree and learnt to make a mummy when we have our party. Louise
would not let me have them in the nursery, I know, but daddy and
Griffin would, and I could go and feed them in the morning before
breakfast.  Griffin would get me bran! That is, if we do go to High
Court; I wish we were to stay on here. There's nobody to play with at
High Court, and grandpapa always keeps daddy talking politics, so that
I can hardly ever get him! Mysie, whatever do you do with your father
away in India?'

'Yes, it is horrid. But then, there's mamma,' said Mysie, whispering,
however, as she saw Dolores near, and feared to hurt her feelings.

'Ah!' said Fly, with a tender little shake of her head; ''tis worse for
her to have no mother at all! Is that why she looks so sad?'

'Cross' is the word,' said Wilfred. 'I can't think what she is come
bothering down here for!'

'Oh! for shame, Wilfred!' said Fly.  'You should be sorry for her.'
And she went up to Dolores, and by way of doing the kindest thing in
the world, said--

'Here's my new puppy. Is not he a dear? I'll let you hold him,' and she
attempted to deposit the fat, curly, satiny creature in Dolores's arms,
which instantly hung down stiff, as she answered, half in fright, 'I
hate dogs!'  The puppy fell down with a flop, and began to squeak,
while the girls, crying, 'Oh! Dolly, how could you!' and 'Poor little
pup!' all crowded round in pity and indignation, and Wilfred observed,
'I told you so!'

'You'll get no change but that out of the Lady of the Rueful
Countenance,' said Jasper.

Mysie had for once nothing to say in Dolores's defence, being equally
hurt for Fly's sake and the puppy's. Dolores found herself virtually
sent to Coventry, as she accompanied the party across the paddock, only
just near enough to benefit by their protection from the herd of half-
grown calves which were there disporting themselves; and, as if to make
the contrast still more provoking, Fly, who had a natural affinity for
all animals, insisted on trying to attract them, calling, 'Sukkey!
sukkey!' and hold out bunches of grass, in vain, for they only galloped
away, and she could only explain how tame those at home were, and how
she went out farming with daddy whenever he had time, and mother and
Fraulein would let her out.

The tree meantime came trundling down, a wonderful spectacle, with all
its gilt balls and fir-cones nodding and dangling wildly, and its other
embellishments turning upside down. There were greetings of delight at
Casement Cottage, and Miss Hacket had kissed everybody all round before
Gillian had time to present the new-comer, and then the good lady was
shocked at her own presumption, and exclaimed--

'I beg your ladyship's pardon! Dear me! I had no notion who it was!'

'Then please kiss me again now you do know!' said Fly, holding up her
funny little face to that very lovable kind one, and they were all soon
absorbed in the difficulty of getting the tree in at the front door,
and setting it up in the room that had been prepared for it.

Dolores had hoped to confide her alarms to Constance's sympathetic ear,
but her friend, who had written and dreamt of many a magnificently
titled scion of the peerage, but had never before seen one in her own
house, had not a minute to spare for her, being far too much engrossed
in observing the habits of the animal. These certainly were peculiar,
since she insisted on a waltz round the room with the tabby cat, and
ascended a step-ladder, merrily spurning Jasper's protection, to insert
the circle of tapers on the crowning chandelier. There was nothing left
for Dolores to do but to sit by in the window-seat, philosophizing on
the remarkable effects of a handle to one's name, and feeling cruelly
neglected.

Suddenly she saw a fly coming up to the gate. There was a general
peeping and wondering. Then Uncle Reginald and a stranger got out and
came up to the door. There was a ring--everybody paused and wondered
for a moment; then the maid tapped at the door and said, 'Would Miss
Mohun come and speak to Colonel Mohun a minute in the drawing-room?'

There was a hush of dread throughout the room. 'Ah!' sighed Miss
Hacket, looking at Gillian, and all the elders thought without saying
that some terrible news of her father had to be told to the poor child.
They let her go, frightened at the summons, but that idea not occurring
to her.

'There!' said Uncle Regie, 'she can set it straight. Don't be
frightened, my dear; only tell this gentleman whether that is your
writing.'

The stranger held a strip so that she could only just see 'Dolores M.
Mohun,' and she unhesitatingly answered 'Yes'--very much surprised.

'You are sure?' said her uncle, in a tone of disappointment that made
her falter, as she added, 'I think so.' At the same time the stranger
turned the paper round, and she knew it for the cheque that had so long
resided in her desk, but with dilated eyes, she exclaimed, 'But--but--
that was for seven pounds!'

'That,' said the stranger, 'then, Miss Mohun, you know this draft?'

'Only it was for seven,' repeated Dolores.

'You mean, I conclude, that it was drawn for seven pounds, and that it
was still for seven when it left your handy?'

'Yes,' muttered Dolores, who was beginning to get very much frightened,
at she knew not what, and to feel on her guard at all points.

'There's nothing to be afraid of, my dear,' said Uncle Reginald,
tenderly; 'nobody suspects you of anything. Only tell us. Did your
father give you this paper?'

'Yes.'

'And when did you cash it?' asked the clerk.

Dolores hung her head. 'I didn't,' she said.

'But how did it get out of your possession?' said her uncle. 'You are
sure this is your own writing at the back. It could surely not have
been stolen from her?' he added to the stranger.

'That could hardly be,' said that person. 'Miss Mohun, you had better
speak out. To whom did you give this cheque?'

There was a whirl of terror all round about Dolores, a horror of
bringing herself first, then Uncle Alfred, Constance, and everybody
else into trouble. She took refuge in uttering not a word.

'Dolores,' said her uncle, and his tone was now much more grave and
less tender, thus increasing her terror; 'this silence is of no use.
Did you give this cheque to Mr. Flinders?'

In the silence, the ticks of the clock on the mantel-piece seemed like
a hammer beating on her ears.  Dolores thought of the morning's flat
denial of all intercourse with Flinders!  Then the word give occurred
to her as a loophole, and her mind did not embrace all the consequences
of the denial, she only saw one thing at a time, 'I didn't give it,'
she answered, almost inaudibly.

'You did not give it?' repeated her uncle, getting angry and speaking
loud.  'Then how did it get into his hands? Is there no truth in you?'
he added, after a pause, which only terrified her more and more. 'Whom
did you give it to?'

'Constance!' The word came out she hardly knew how, as something which
at least was true. Colonel Mohun knocked at the door of the room she
had come from. It was instantly opened, and Miss Hacket began, 'The
poor dear! Can I get anything for her, I am sure it is a terrible
shock!' and as he stood, astonished, Gillian added, 'Oh! I see it isn't
that. We were afraid it was something about Uncle Maurice.'

'No, my dear, no such thing. Only would Miss Constance Hacket be kind
enough to come here a minute?'

'Oh! My apron! My fingers! Excuse me for being such a figure!'
Constance ran on, as Colonel Mohun made her come across to the room
opposite, where she looked about her in amazement. Was the stranger a
publisher about to make her an offer for the 'Waif of the Moorland.'
But Dolores's down-cast attitude and set, sullen face forbade the idea.

'Miss Constance Hacket,' said the colonel, 'here is an uncomfortable
matter in which we want your assistance. Will you kindly answer a
question or two from Mr. Ellis, the manager of the .... Bank?'

Then the manager politely asked her if she had seen the cheque before.

'Yes--why--what's wrong about it? Oh! It is for seventy! Why, Dolores,
I thought it was only for seven?'

'It was for seven when you parted with it, then, Miss Hacket,' said the
manager; 'let me ask whether you changed it yourself?'

'No,' she said, 'I sent it to--' and there she came to a dead pause, in
alarm.

'Did you send it to Mr. Alfred Flinders?' said Mr. Ellis.

'Yes--oh!' another little scream, 'He can't have done it. He can't be
such a villain! Your own uncle, Dolores.'

'He is no uncle of Dolores Mohun!' said the colonel.  'He is only the
son of her mother's step-mother by her first marriage.'

'Oh, Dolores, then you deceived me!' exclaimed Constance; 'you told me
he was your own uncle, or I would never--and oh! my fifteen pounds.
Where is he?'

'That, madam,' said Mr. Ellis, gravely, 'I hope the police may
discover. He has quitted Darminster after having cashed this cheque for
seventy pounds. We have already telegraphed to the police to be on the
look out for him, but I much fear that it will be too late.'

'Oh! my fifteen pounds! What shall I do? Oh, Dolores, how could you? I
shall never trust any one again!'

Perhaps Uncle Reginald felt the same, but he only darted a look upon
his niece, which she felt in every nerve, though to his eyes she only
stood hard and stolid. The manager, who found Constance's torrent of
words as hard to deal with as Dolores's silence, asked for pen and ink,
and begged to take down Miss Hacket's statement to lay before a
magistrate in case of Flinders's apprehension. It was not very easy to
keep her to the point, especially as her chief interest was in her own
fifteen pounds, of which Mr. Ellis only would say that she could
prosecute the man for obtaining money on false pretences, and this she
trusted meant getting it back again.  As to the cheque in question, she
told how Dolores had entrusted it to her to send to her supposed uncle,
Mr. Flinders, to whom it had been promised the day they went to
Darminster, and she was quite ready to depose that when it left her
hands, it was only for seven pounds.

This was all that the bank manager wanted. He thanked her, told Colonel
Mohun they should hear from him, and went off in a hurry, both to
communicate with the police, and to leave the young ladies to be dealt
with by their friends, who, he might well suppose, would rather that he
removed himself.

'Put on your hat, Dolores,' said Colonel Mohun, gravely; 'you had
better come home with me! Miss Hacket, excuse me, but I am afraid I
must ask whether you have been assisting in a correspondence between my
niece and this Flinders?'

'Oh! Colonel Mohun, you will believe me, I was quite deceived. Dolores
represented that he was her uncle, to whom she was much attached, and
that Lady Merrifield separated her from him out of mere family
prejudice.'

'I am afraid you have paid dearly for your sympathy,' said the colonel.
'It certainly led you far when you assisted your friend to deceive the
aunt who trusted you with her.'

The movement that was taking place seemed like licence to that roomful,
burning with curiosity to break out. Mysie was running after Dolores to
ask if she could do anything for her, but Colonel Mohun called her back
with 'Not now, Mysie.'  Miss Hacket came forward with agitated hopes
that nothing was amiss, and, at sight of her, Constance collapsed
quite. 'Oh, Mary,' she cried out, 'I have been so deceived! Oh! that
man!' and she sunk upon a chair in a violent fit of crying, which
alarmed Miss Hacket so dreadfully that she looked imploringly up to
Colonel Mohun. He had meant to have left Miss Constance to explain, but
he saw it was necessary to relieve the poor elder sister's mind from
worse fears by saying, 'I am afraid it is my niece who deceived her, by
leading her into forwarding letters and money to a person who calls
himself a relation. He seems to have been guilty of a forgery, which
may have unpleasant consequences. Children, I think you had better
follow us home.'

Dolores had come down by this time, and Colonel Mohun walked home, at
some paces from her, very much as if he had been guarding a criminal
under arrest.  Poor Uncle Reginald!  He had put such absolute trust in
the two answers she had made him in the morning; and had been so sure
of her good faith, that when the manager brought word that the cheque
had been traced to Flinders, who had absconded, he still held that it
was a barefaced forgery, entirely due to Flinders himself, and that
Dolores could show that she had no knowledge of it, and he had gone
down in the fly expecting to come home triumphant, and confute his
sister Jane, who persisted in being mournfully sagacious. And he was
indignant in proportion to the confidence he had misplaced; grieved,
too, for his brother's sake, and absolutely ashamed.

Once he asked, when they were within the paddock, out of the way of
meeting any one, 'Have you nothing to say to me, Dolores?'

It was not said in a manner to draw out an answer, and she made none at
all.

Again he spoke, as they came near the house:

'You had better go up to your room at once. I do not know how to think
of the blow this will be to your father.'

It was so entirely what Dolores was thinking of, that it seemed to her
barbarous to tell her of it  In fact she was stunned, scarcely
understanding what had happened, and too proud and miserable to ask for
an explanation, for had not every one turned against her, even Uncle
Reginald and Constance--and what had happened to that cheque?

She did not see Uncle Reginald turn into the drawing-room, and letting
himself drop despairingly into an armchair, say, 'Well, Jane, you were
right, more's the pity!'

'She really gave him the cheque!'

'Yes, but at least it was only for seven.  The rascal himself must have
altered it into seventy.  She and the other girl both agree as to that.
There's been a clandestine correspondence going on with that scamp ever
since she has been here, under cover to that precious friend of hers--
that Hacket girl.'

'Ah! you warned me, Jenny,' said Lady Merrifield 'But I'm quite sure
Miss Hacket knew nothing of it'

'I don't suppose she did. She seemed struck all of a heap. Any way
they've quarrelled now; the other one has turned King's evidence--has
lost some money too, and says Dolores deceived her.  She's deceived
every one all round, that's the fact. Why she told me two flat lies
this very morning--lies--there's no other name for it. What will you do
with her, Lily?'

'I don't know,' said Lady Merrifield, utterly shocked, and
recollecting, but not mentioning, the falsehood told to her about the
note. Lord Rotherwood said, 'Poor child,' and Colonel Mohun groaned,
'Poor Maurice.'

'Then she did go to Darminster?' said Miss Mohun.

'Yes; that came out from this Miss Constance, who seems to have been
properly taken in about some publishing trash. Serve her right! But it
seems Dolores beguiled her with stories about her dear uncle in
distress. We left her nearly in hysterics, and I told the children to
come away.'

'What does Dolores say?' asked Jane.

'Nothing! I could not get a word out of her after the first surprise at
the alteration of the cheque. Not a word nor a tear. She is as hard--as
hard as a bit of stone.'

'Really,' said Lady Merrifield, 'I can't help thinking there's a good
deal of excuse for her.'

'What? That poor Maurice's wife was half a heathen, and afterwards the
girl was left to chance?' said Colonel Mohun. 'I see no other. And you,
Lily, are the last person I should expect to excuse untruth.'

'I did not mean to do that, Regie; but you all say that poor Mary was
fond of this man and helped him.'

'That she did!' said Lord Rotherwood, 'and very much against the grain
it went with Maurice.'

'Then don't you see that this poor child, who probably never had the
matter explained to her, may have felt it a great hardship to be cut
off from the man her mother taught her to care for; and that may have
led her into concealments?'

'Well!' said Colonel Mohun, 'at that rate, at least one may be thankful
never to have married.'

'One--or two, Regie?' said Jane, as they all laughed at his sally. 'I
think I had better go up and see whether I can get anything out of the
child. Do you mean to have her down to dinner, Lily,' she added,
glancing at the clock.

'Oh yes, certainly.  I don't want to put her to disgrace before all the
children and servants--that is, if she is not crying herself out of
condition to appear, poor child.'

'Not she,' said Uncle Reginald.

On opening the door, the children were all discovered in the hall, in
anxious curiosity, not venturing in uncalled, but very much puzzled.

Gillian came forward and said, 'Mamma, may we know what is the matter?'

'I hardly understand it myself yet, my dear, only that Dolores and
Constance Hacket have let themselves be taken in by a sort of relation
of Dolores's mother, and Uncle Maurice has lost a good deal of money
through it. It would not have happened if there had been fair and
upright dealing towards me; but we do not know the rights of it, and
you had better take no notice of it to her.'

'I thought,' said Valetta, sagaciously, 'no good could come of running
after that stupid Miss Constance.'

'Who can't pull a cracker, and screams at a daddy long-legs,' added
Fergus.

'But, mamma, what shall we do?' said Gillian. 'I came away because
Uncle Regie told us, and Constance was crying so terribly; but what is
poor Miss Hacket to do? There is the tree only half dressed, and all
the girls coming to-night, unless she puts them off.'

'Yes, you had better go down alone as soon as dinner is over, and see
what she would like,' said Lady Merrifield. 'We must not leave her in
the lurch, as if we cast her off, though I am afraid Constance has been
very foolish in this matter.  Oh, Gillian, I wish we could have made
Dolores happier amongst us, and then this would not have happened.'

'She would never let us, mamma,' said Gillian.

But Mysie, coming up close to her mother as they all went up the broad
staircase to prepare for the midday meal, confessed in a grave little
voice, 'Mamma, I think I have sometimes been cross to Dolly-more
lately, because it has been so very tiresome.'

Lady Merrifield drew the little girl into her own room, stooped down,
and kissed her, saying, 'My dear child, these things need a great deal
of patience. You will have to be doubly kind and forbearing now, for
she must be very unhappy, and perhaps not like to show it. You might
say a little prayer for her, that God will help us to be kind to her,
and soften her heart.'

'Oh yes, mamma; and, please, will you set it down for me?'

'Yes, my dear, and for myself too. You shall have it before bed-time.'

Aunt Jane had followed Dolores to her own room the girl, who was
sitting on her bed, dazed, regretted that she had not bolted her door,
as her aunt entered with the words, 'Oh, Dolores, I am very sorry I
could not have thought you would so have abused the confidence that was
placed in you.'

To this Dolores did not answer. To her mind she was the person ill-used
by the prohibition of correspondence, but she could not say so. Every
one was falling on her; but Aunt Jane's questions could not well help
being answered.

'What will your father think of if?'

'He never forbade me to write to Uncle Alfred' said Dolores.

'Because he never thought of your doing such a thing. Did he give you
this cheque?'

'Yes.'

'For yourself?'

'N-n-o. But it was the same.'

'What do you mean by that?'

'It was to pay a man--a man's that's dead.'

'That may be; but what right did that give you to spend the money
otherwise? Who was the man?'

'Professor Muhlwasser, for some books of plates.'

'How do you know he is dead! Who told you so? Eh! Was it Flinders? Ah!
you see what comes of trusting to an unprincipled man like that.  If
you had only been open and straightforward with Aunt Lily, or with any
of us, you would have been saved from this tissue of falsehood;
forfeiting your Uncle Reginald's good opinion, and enabling Flinders to
do your father this great injury.' She paused, and, as Dolores made no
answer, she went on again--'Indeed, there is no saying what you have
not brought on yourself by your deceit and disobedience.  If Flinders
is apprehended, you will have to appear against him in court, and
publicly avow that you gave away what your father trusted to you.'

Dolores gave a little moan and start, and her aunt, perceiving that she
had touched an apparently vulnerable spot, proceeded--'The only thing
left for you to do is to tell the whole story frankly and honestly. I
don't say so only for the sake of showing Aunt Lily that you are sorry
for having abused her confidence. I wish I could think that you are;
but, unless we know all, we cannot shield you from any further
consequences, and that of course we should wish to do, for your
father's sake.'

Dolores did not feel drawn to confession, but she knew that when Aunt
Jane once set herself to ask questions, there was no use in trying to
conceal anything. So she made answers, chiefly 'Yes' or No,' and her
aunt, by severe and diligent pumping, had extracted bit by bit what it
was most essential should be known, before the gong summoned them.
Dolores would rather have been a solitary prisoner, able to chafe
against oppression, than have been obliged to come down and confront
everybody; but she crept into the place left for her between Mysie and
Wilfred. She had very little appetite, and never found out how Mysie
was fulfilling her resolution of kindness by baulking Wilfred of sundry
attempts to tease; by substituting her own kissing-crust for Dolly's
more unpoetical piece of bread; and offering to exchange her delicious
strawberry-jam tartlet for the black-currant one at which her cousin
was looking with reluctant eyes.

Mysie and Valetta were grievously exercised about their chances of
returning to the G.F.S. Tree. Indeed Gillian went the length of telling
them that Fly was behaving far better in her disappointment as to the
Butterfly's Ball than they were as to this 'old second-hand tree.' Fly
laughed and observed, 'Dear me, things one would like are always being
stopped. If one was to mind every time, how horrid it would be! And
there's always something to make up!'

Then it occurred to Gillian, though not to her younger sisters, that
Lady Phyllis Devereux lived in general a much less indulged, and more
frequently disappointed, life than did herself and her sisters.

However, there was great delight at that dinner-table. Jasper had
ridden to get the letters of the second post, and Lord Rotherwood had
his hands and his head full of them when he came in to luncheon--there
being what Lady Merrifield called a respectable dinner in view.  In the
first place. Lord Ivinghoe was getting on very well, and was up,
sitting by the fire, playing patience. Nobody was catching the measles,
and quarantine would be over on the 9th of January. Secondly, 'Fly,
shall you be very broken-hearted if I tell you.'

'Oh, daddy, you wouldn't look like that if it was anything very bad!
Lion isn't dead?'

'No; but I grieve to say your unnatural grand-parents don't want you!
Grandmamma is nervous about having you without mamma. What did we do
last time we were there, Fly?'

'Don't you remember, daddy? they said there was nothing for me to ride
to the meet, and you and Griffin put the side-saddle on Crazy Kate, and
we went out with the hounds, and I've got the brush up in my room!'

'I don't wonder grandmamma is nervous,' observed Lady Merrifield.

'Will you be nervous, Lily,' said Lord Rotherwood, 'if this same
flyaway mortal is left on your hands till the 9th?'

Dinner, manners, silence before company, and all, could not repress a
general scream of ecstacy, which called forth the reply. 'I should
think you and her mother were the people to be nervous.

'Oh! my lady has been duly instructed in Merrifield perfections, and
esteems you a model mother.'

The children's nods and smiles said 'Hear, hear!'

'Well, you've got it all in her own letter,'  continued Lord
Rotherwood.  'You see, they've got a caucus at High Court, and a
dinner, and I must go up there on Monday; but if you'll keep this
dangerous Fly--'

'I can answer for the pleasure it will give,'

'Well then, I'll come back for her by the 9th, and you've Victoria's
letter, haven't you?'

'Yes, it is very kind of her.'

'Then I shall expect you to be ready to start with me for the
Butterfly's Ball.  Eh, young ladies, what will you come out as?'

'Oh daddy, daddy, is it?  Has mamma asked them?  Oh! it is more
delicious than anything ever was.  Mysie, Mysie, what will you be?'

'The sly little dormouse crept out of his hole,' quoted Mysie, in a
very low, happy voice.

'And I will be a jolly old frog,' shouted Fergus, finding the ordinance
of silence broken and making the most of it, on the presumption that
the whole family were invited.  However, the tone, rather than the
uncomprehended words of his mother's answer, 'Nobody asked you, sir,'
she said, reduced him to silence, and it became understood, through
Fly's inquiries, that the invitation included Lady Merrifield must make
her acceptance doubtful.  And besides, the question which three were to
go was the unspoken drawback to full bliss, and yet the delight was
exceedingly great in the prospect, great enough to make the contrast of
gloom in poor Dolores's spirit all the darker, as she sat, left out of
everything, and she could not now say, with absolute injustice, though
she still clung to the belief that there was more misfortune than fault
in her disgrace.

She crept away, shivering with unhappiness, to the schoolroom, while
the others frisked off discussing the wonderful Butterfly's Ball.  Lady
Merrifield looked in on her, and she hardened herself to endure either
another probing or fresh reproaches, but all she heard was, 'My dear,
I cannot talk over this sad affair now, as I have to go out. But, if
you can, I think you had better write to your father about it, and let
him understand exactly how it happened. Or, if you had rather write
than speak in explaining it to me, you can do so, and we can consider
tomorrow what is to be done about it.'

Then she went out with her brother and cousin to drive to some
Industrial schools which Lord Rotherwood wanted to see.




CHAPTER XV.

THE BUTTERFLY'S BALL.



Miss Mohun went to the Casement Cottages with Gillian to see what the
elder Miss Hacket might wish and whether they could be of use to her;
the young people being left to exercise themselves within call in case
the Tree was to be continued.

This proved to be an act of great kindness, for poor Mary Hacket was
suffering all the distress of an upright and honourable woman at her
sister's abuse of confidence; and had felt as if Colonel Mohun's
summons to his nieces was the close of all intimacy with such an
unworthy household. Moreover, the evenings entertainment could not be
given up and Gillian was despatched to summon the eager assistants,
while Aunt Jane repeated her assurances that Lady Merrifield perfectly
understood Miss Hacket's ignorance of the doings in Constance's room--
listening patiently even when the tender-hearted woman began to excuse
her sister for having accepted Dolores's lamentations at being cut off
from her so. called uncle. 'Dear Connie is so romantic, and so easily
touched,' she said, 'though, of course, it was very wrong of her to
suppose that Lady Merrifield could do anything harsh or unkind. She is
in great grief now, poor darling, she feels so bitterly that her friend
led her into it by deceiving her about the relationship and character.'

This, Aunt Jane did not think the worst part of the affair, and she
said that the girl had been brought up to call the man Uncle Alfred,
and very possibly did not understand that he was only so by courtesy,
nor that he was so utterly untrustworthy.

'I thought so,' said Mary Hacket. 'I told Connie that such a child
could not possibly have been a willing party to his fraud--for fraud, I
fear, it was--Miss Mohun. Do you think there is any hope of her
recovering the sum she advanced.'

'I am afraid there is not, even if the wretched man is apprehended.'

'Ah! if she had only told me what she wanted it for!'

'I hope it was all her own.'

'Oh, Miss Mohun, no doubt you know that two sisters living together
must accommodate one another a little, and Connie's dress expenses, at
her age, are necessarily more than mine. But here come the dear
children, and we ought to dismiss all painful subjects, though I
declare I am so nervous I hardly know what I am about.'

However, by Miss Mohun's help, the good lady rose to the occasion, and
when once busy, the trouble was thrown off, so that no guests would
have detected how unhappy she had been in the forenoon.  Constance soon
came down, and confided to Gillian a parcel directed to Miss D. Mohun,
containing all the notes written to her, and all the books lent to her,
by the false friend whom she had cast off, after which she threw
herself into the interests of the present.

The London ornaments, and the residue of the gifts and bonbons, made
the Christmas-tree a most memorable one to the G.F.S. mind.

As to Fly, she fraternized to a great extent with a very small maid, in
a very long, brown dress, and very thick boots, who did not taste a
single bonbon, and being asked whether she understood that they were
good to eat, replied that she was keeping them for  'our Bertie and
Minnie;'  and, on encouragement, launched into such a description of
her charges--the blacksmith's small children--that Lady Phyllis went
back, not without regrets that she could not be a little nurse who had
done with school at twelve years old, and spent her days at the back of
a perambulator.

'Oh, daddy,' she said, 'I do wish you had come down; it was such lovely
fun--the best tree I ever saw.  Why wouldn't you come?'

'If thirty odd years should pass over that little head of yours, my
Lady Fly, and you should then meet with Mysie and Val, maybe you will
then learn the reason why.'

'We will recollect that in thirty years' time.'

'When our children go to a Christmas-tree.'

'And we sit over the fire instead.'

'Oh! but should we ever not care for a dear, delightful Christmas-
tree?'

'If we had each other instead.'

'Then we would all go still together!'

'And tell our little boys and girls all about this one, and the
Butterfly's Ball!'

'Perhaps our husbands would want us, and not let us go.'

'Oh! I don't want a husband.  He'd be in the way.  We'd send him off to
India or somewhere, like Aunt Lily's.'

'Don't, Fly; it is not at all nice to have papa away.'

'Oh yes, it would be ten hundred times better if he were at home.'

Such were the mingled sentiments of the triad, as they went upstairs to
bed, linked together in their curious fashion.

Some time later, a bedroom discussion of affairs was held by Lady
Merrifield and Miss Mohun, who had not had a moment alone together all
day, to converse upon the two versions of the disaster which the latter
had extracted from Dolores and Constance, and which fairly agreed,
though Constance had been by far the most voluble, and somewhat
ungenerously violent against her former friend, at least so Lady
Merrifield remarked.

'You should take into account the authoress's disappointed vanity.'

'Yes, poor thing! How he must have nattered her!'

'Besides, there is the loss of the money, which, I fear, falls as
seriously on good Miss Hacket as on the goose herself.'

'Does it, indeed?  That must not be.  How much is it?'

'Fifteen pounds; and that foolish Constance fancies that poor Dolores
assisted in duping her.  I really had to defend the girl; though I am
just as angry myself when I watch her adamantine sullenness.'

'I am the person to be angry with for having allowed the intimacy, in
spite of your warnings, Jenny.'

'You were too innocent to know what girls are made of.  Oh yes, you are
very welcome to have six of your own, but you might have six dozen
without knowing what a girl brought up at a second-rate boarding-school
is capable of, or what it is to have had no development of conscience.
What shall you do?  send her to school?'

'After that recommendation of yours?'

'I didn't propose a second-rate boarding-school, ma'am.  There's a High
School starting after the holidays at Rockstone.  Let me have her, and
send her there.'

'Ada would not like it.'

'Never mind Ada, I'll settle her.  I would keep Dolly well up to her
lessons, and prevent these friendships.'

'I suppose you would manage her better than I have been able to do,'
said Lady Merrifield, reluctantly.  'Yet I should like to try again; I
don't want to let her go.  Is it the old story of duty and love, Jane?
Have I failed again through negligence and ignorance, and deceived
myself by calling weakness and blindness love?'

'You don't fail with your own, Lily.  Rotherwood runs about admiring
them, and saying he never saw a better union of freedom and obedience.
It was really a treat to see Gillian's ways tonight; she had so much
consideration, and managed her sisters so well.'

'Ah, but there's their father!  I do so dread spoiling them for him
before he comes home; but then he is a present influence with us all
the time.'

'They would all clap their hands if I carried Dolly off.'

'Yes, and that is one reason I don't want to give her up; it seems so
sad to send Maurice's child away leaving such an impression.  One thing
I am.  thankful for, that it will be all over before grandmamma and
Bessie Merrifield come.'

At that moment there was a knock at the door, and a small figure
appeared in a scarlet robe, bare feet, and dishevelled hair.

'Mysie, dear child!  What's the matter? who is ill?'

'Oh, please come, mamma, Dolly is choking and crying in such a dreadful
way, and I can't stop her.'

'I give up, Lily.  This is mother-work,' said Miss Mohun.

Hurrying upstairs, Lady Merrifield found very distressing sounds
issuing from Dolores's room; sobs, not loud, but almost strangled into
a perfect agony of choking down by the resolute instinct, for it was
scarcely will.

'My dear, my dear, don't stop it!' she exclaimed, lifting up the girl
in her arms.  'Let it out; cry freely; never mind.  She will be better
soon, Mysie dear.  Only get me a glass of water, and find a fresh
handkerchief.  There, there, that's right!'  as Dolores let herself
lean on the kind breast, and conscious that the utmost effects of the
disturbance had come, allowed her long-drawn sobs to come freely, and
moaned as they shook her whole frame, though without screaming.  Her
aunt propped her up on her own bosom, parted back her hair, kissed her,
and saying she was getting better, sent Mysie back to her bed.  The
first words that were gasped out between the rending sobs were, 'Oh! is
my--he--to be tried?'

'Most likely not, my dear.  He has had full time to get away, and I
hope it is so.'

'But wasn't he there?  Haven't they got him?  Weren't they asking me
about him, and saying I must be tried for stealing father's cheque?'

'You were dreaming, my poor child.  They have not taken him, and I am
quite sure you will not be tried anyway.'

'They said--Aunt Jane and Uncle Reginald and all, and 'that dreadful
man that came--'

'Perhaps they said you might have to be examined, but only if he is
apprehended, and I fully expect that he is out of reach, so that you
need not frighten yourself about that, my dear.'

'Oh, don't go!' cried Dolores, as her aunt stirred.

'No, I'm not going.  I was only reaching some water for you.  Let me
sponge your face.'

To this Dolores submitted gratefully, and then sighed, as if under
heavy oppression, 'And did he really do it?'

'I am afraid he must have done so.'

'I never thought it.  Mother always helped him.'

'Yes, my dear, that made it very hard for you to know what was right to
do, and this is a most terrible shock for you,' said her aunt, feeling
unable to utter another reproach just then to one who had been so
loaded with blame, and she was touched the more when Dolores moaned,
'Mother would have cared so much.'

She answered with a kiss, was glad to find her hand still held, and
forgot that it was past eleven o'clock.

'Please, will it quite ruin father?' asked Dolores, who had not out-
grown childish confusion about large sums of money.

'Not exactly, my dear.  It was more than he had in the bank, and Uncle
Regie thinks the bankers will undertake part of the loss if he will let
them.  It is more inconvenient than ruinous.'

'Ah!'  There was a faintness and oppression in the sound which made
Lady Merrifield think the girl ought not to be left, and before long,
sickness came on.  Nurse Halfpenny had to be called up, and it was one
o'clock before there was a quiet, comfortable sleep, which satisfied
the aunt and nurse that it was safe to repair to their own beds again.

The dreary, undefined self-reproach and vague alarms, intensified by
the sullen, reserved temper, and culminating in such a shock,
alienating the only persons she cared for, and filling her with terror
for the future, could not but have a physical effect, and Dolores was
found on the morrow with a bad head-ache, and altogether in a state to
be kept in bed, with a fire in her room.

Gillian and Mysie were much impressed by the intelligence of their
cousin's illness when they came to their mother's room on the way to
breakfast, and Mysie turned to her sister, saying, 'There Gill, you see
she did care, though she didn't cry like us.  Being ill is more than
crying.'

'Well,'  said Gillian, 'it is a good deal more than such things as you
and Val cry for, Mysie.'

'It was a trial such as you don't understand, my dears,' said Lady
Merrifield.  'I don't, of course, excuse much that she did, but she had
been used to see her mother make every exertion to help the man.'

'That does make a difference,' said Gillian, 'but she shouldn't have
taken her father's money.  And wasn't it dreadful of Constance to
smuggle her letters?  I'm quite glad Constance gets part of the
punishment.'

'Certainly, that might be just, Gillian, but unfortunately the loss
falls infinitely more heavily upon Miss Hacket, who cannot afford the
loss at all.'

'Oh dear!' cried Mysie.

'I'm very sorry,' said Gillian.

'And, my dear girls, in all honour and honesty, we must make it up to
her.'

'Can't we save it out of our allowance?' said Mysie.

'Sixpence a month from you, a shilling perhaps from Gill, how long
would that take?  No, my dear girls, I am going to put you to a heavy
trial.'

'Oh, mamma, don't!' cried Gillian, seeing what she was driving at.
'Don't give up the Butterfly's Ball.'

'Oh, don't!'  implored Mysie, tears starting in her eyes.  'We never
saw a costume ball, and Fly wishes it so.'

'And I thought you had promised,' said Gillian.

'Cousin Rotherwood assumes that I did; but I did not really accept.  I
told him I could not tell, for you know your Grandmamma Merrifield
talked of coming here, and I cannot put her off.  And now I see that it
must be given up.'

'It need only be calico!' sighed Gillian, sticking pins in and out of
the pincushion.

'Fancy dresses even in calico are very expensive.  Besides, I could not
go to a place like Rotherwood without at least two new dresses, and it
is not right to put papa to more expense.'

'Oh, mamma! couldn't you?  You always do look nicer than any one,' said
Mysie.

'My dear, I am afraid nothing I have at present would be suitable for a
General's wife at Lady Rotherwood's party, and we must think of what
would be fitting both towards our hostess and papa.  Don't you see?'

'Ah! your velvet dress!' sighed Gillian.

'My poor old faithful state apparel,' smiled Lady Merrifield.  'Poor
Gill, you did not think again to have to mourn for it, but I don't know
that even that could have been sufficiently revivified, though it was
my cheval de bataille for so many years.

For Lady Merrifield's black velvet of many years' usefulness, had been
put on for her p.p.c. party at Belfast, when Gillian, in abetting
Jasper in roasting chestnuts over a paraffin-lamp, had set herself and
the tablecloth on fire, and had been extinguished with such damages as
singed hair, a scar on Jasper's hands, and the destruction of her
mother's 'front breadth.'  There had been such relief and thankfulness
at its being no worse that the 'state apparel' had not been much
mourned, especially as the remains made a charming pelisse for
Primrose;  and in the retirement of Silverton, it had not been missed
till the present occasion.

'Do gowns cost so very much?' said Mysie.

'Indeed they do, my poor Mouse.  The lamented cost more than twenty
pounds.  I had been thinking whether I could afford the requisite
garments--not quite so costly--and thought I might get them for about
sixteen, with contrivance; but you see I feel it my fault that I let
Dolores go and lead Constance to get cheated, and I cannot take the
money out of what papa gives for household expenses and your education,
so it must come out of my own personal allowance.  Don't you see?'

'Ye--es,'  said Gillian, apparently intent on getting a big, black-
headed pin repeatedly into the same hole, while Mysie was trying with
all her might not to cry.

'You are thinking it is very hard that you should suffer for Dolly's
faults.  Perhaps it is, but such things may often happen to you, my
dears.  Christians bear them well for love's sake, you know.'

'And it is a little my fault,' said Gillian, thoughtfully;  'for it was
I that let the chestnut fall into the lamp.'

'I--I don't think I should have minded so much,' said Mysie, almost
crying, 'if we had done it our own selves--and Fly too--for some very
poor woman in the snow.'

'I know that very well, Mysie, and this is a much harder trial, as you
don't get the honour and glory of it; and, besides, you will have to
take care to say not a word of this reason to Fly or Valetta, or any
one else.'

'Val will be awfully disappointed,' said Gillian.

'Poor Val!  But I should not have taken her anyway, so that matters the
less.  I should have taken Jasper, for that would have been more
convenient than so many girls.  In fact, I did not mean anybody to have
heard of it till I had made up my mind, so that there would have been
no disappointment; but that naughty Cousin Rotherwood could not keep it
to himself; and so, my poor maidens, you have to bear it with a good
grace, and to be treated as my confidential friends.'

Mysie smiled and kissed her mother--Gillian cleared somewhat, but
observing, 'I only wish it wasn't clothes;'  tried to dismiss the
subject as the gong began to sound, but Mysie caught her mother's
dress, and said, 'Mayn't I tell Fly, for a great secret?'

'No, my dear, certainly not.  Fly is a dear little girl, but we don't
know how she can keep secrets, and it would never do to let the
Rotherwoods know; papa and Uncle William would be exceedingly annoyed.
And only think of Miss Hacket's feelings if it came round.  It will be
hard enough to get her to take it now.'

'Perhaps she won't,' flashed into the minds of both girls; but Mysie
said entreatingly, 'One moment more, mamma, please! What can I say to
Fly that will be the truth?'

'Say that I find we cannot go, and that I had never promised,' said
Lady Merrifield.  'I trust you, my dears.'

And as she opened the door to hurry down to prayers, the two sisters
felt the words very precious and inspiriting.  Mysie lingered on the
step and bravely asked Gillian whether her eyes looked like crying--

'No, only a little twinkly,' answered the elder sister; 'they will be
all right after prayers if you don't rub them.'

'No, I won't, said Mysie; "I'll try to mean 'Thy will be done.'  For I
suppose it is His will, though it is mamma's."

'I'm glad you thought of that, Mysie,' said Gillian; 'you see it is
mamma's goodness.'  And Gillian added to herself, "dear little Mysie
too.  If it had not been for her, I believe I should have 'grizzled'
all prayer-time, and now I hope I shall attend instead."

When everybody rose up from their knees, Lady Merrifield was glad to
see two fairly cheerful faces.  She tried to lessen the responsibility
of the confidants, and to get the matter settled by telling Lord
Rotherwood at once and publicly that she had thought his kind
invitation over, and that she found she must not accept it.  Perhaps
she warily took the moment after she had seen the postman coming up the
drive, for he had only time to say, 'Now, that's too bad, Lily, you
don't mean it,' and she to answer, 'Yes, in sad earnest, I do,'  before
the letters came in, and the attention of the elders was taken off by
the distribution.

But Valetta whispered to Gillian, 'Not going; oh why?'

'No; never mind, you wouldn't have gone, anyway--hush--' said Gillian,
beginning, it may be, a little sharply, but then becoming dismayed as
Valetta, perhaps a little unhinged by the late pleasures, burst forth
into such a fit of crying as made everybody look up, and her mother
tell her to go away if she could not behave better.  Gillian,
understanding a sign of the head as permission, led her away, hearing
Lord Rotherwood observe,--

'There, you cruel party!' before again becoming absorbed in his letter.

'Oh dear!' sighed Fly, turning to Mysie as they rose from table, 'I am
so sorry! It would have been so nice; and I thought we were safe, as
mamma had written herself!'

'Ah! but my mamma hadn't accepted,' said Mysie.

Phyllis seemed to take this as final, and sighed, but Mysie presently
exclaimed, 'I say! can't we all play at Butterfly's Ball in the hall
after lessons?'

'Lessons?' said Fly; 'but it's holiday-time?'

'Mamma always makes us do a sort of little lesson, even in the
holidays, as she says we get naughty.  But I suppose you need not; and
perhaps she will not make us now you are here.'

Colonel Mohun and Lord Rotherwood were going to Darminster to see what
was the state of the investigation about Mr.  Flinders.  They set out
directly after breakfast, and after the feeding of the pets, where
Valetta joined them, much consoled by the prospect of the extemporary
Butterfly's Ball at home, Lady Phyllis, with her usual ready
adaptability, repaired with the others to the schoolroom, where the
Psalms and Lessons were read, and a small amount of French reading in
turn from 'En Quarantaine' followed, with accompaniment of needlework
or drawing, after which the children were free.

Aunt Jane was going home to her Sunday school and the Rockstone
festivities.  She came down for her final talk with her sister just in
time to perceive the folding up of three five-pound notes.

'Lily,' she said, with instant perception, 'I could beat myself for
what I told you yesterday.'

Lady Merrifield laughed.  'The girls are very good about it!' she said.
'Now you have found it out, see whether that note will make Miss
Hacket swallow it.'

'Can't be better! But oh.  Lily, it is disgusting! Could not I rig up
something fanciful for the children?'

'That's not so much the point.  'The General's lady,' as Mrs.
Halfpenny would say, is bound not to look like 'ane scrub,' as she
would be unwelcome to Victoria, and what would be William's feelings?
I could hardly have accomplished it even with this, and the catastrophe
settles the matter.'

'You could not get into my black satin?'

'No, I thank you, my dear little Brownie,' said Lady Merrifield,
elongating herself like a girl measuring heights.

'Ada has a larger assortment, as well as a taller person,' continued
Miss Jane, 'but then they are rather 'henspeckle,' and they have all
made their first appearance at Rotherwood.'

'No, no, thank you, my dear, Jasper would not like the notion--even if
there was not more of me than of Ada.  I have no doubt it is much
better for us.'

'Should you have liked it, Lily?'

'For once in a way.  For Rotherwood's sake, dear old fellow.  Yes, I
should.'

'Ah, well! You are a bit of a grande dame yourself.  Ada enjoys it,
too, or I don't think I ever should go there.'

'Surely Victoria behaves well to you?'

'Far be it from me to say she is not exemplary in her perfect civility
to all her husband's relations.  Ada thinks her charming; but oh.
Lily, you've never found out what it is to be a little person in a
great person's house, and to feel one's self scrupulously made one of
the family, because her husband is so much attached to all of them.
There's nothing spontaneous about it!  I dare say you would get on
better, though You are not a country-town old maid; you would have an
air of the world and of distinction even if you went in your old grey
poplin.'

'Well, I thought better of my lady.'

'You ought not! She makes great efforts, I am sure, and is a pattern of
graciousness and cordiality--only that's just what riles one, when one
knows one is just as well born, and all the rest of it.  And then I'm
provided with the clever men, and the philanthropical folk to talk to.
I know it's a great compliment, and they are very nice, but I'd ten
times rather take my chance among them.  However, now I've made the
grapes sour for you, what do you think about Dolores?  Will you send
her to us?'

'Not immediately, at any rate, dear Jane.  It is very kind in you to
wish to take her off our hands, but I do want to try her a little
longer.  I thought she seemed to be softening last night.'

'She was as hard as ever when I went in to wish her good-bye.'

'I thought she had too much headache for conversation when I went in
last; I think this is a regular upset from unhappiness and reserve.'

'Alias temper and deceitfulness.'

'Something of both.  You know the body often suffers when things are
not thrown out in a wholesome explosion at once, but go simmering on;
and I mean to let this poor child alone till she is well.'

'Ah! here comes the pony-carriage.  Well, Lily, send her to me if you
repent.'

The sisters came out to find the Butterfly's Ball in full action.  Fly
had become a Butterfly by the help of a battered pair of fairy wings,
stretched on wire, which were part of the theatrical stock.  'The shy
little Dormouse' was creeping about on all fours under a fur jacket,
with a dilapidated boa for a long tail, but her 'blind brother the
Mole' had escaped from her, and had been transformed into the Frog, by
means of a spotted handkerchief over his back, and tremendous leap-frog
jumps.  Primrose, in another pair of fairy wings, was personating the
Dragon-fly and all his relations, 'green, orange, and blue.'  Valetta,
in perfect content with the present, with a queer pair of ears, and a
tail made of an old brush, sat up and nibbled as Squirrel.  The
Grasshopper was performing antics which made him not easily
distinguishable from the Frog, and the Spider was actually descending
by a rope from the balusters, while his mother, standing somewhat
aghast, breathed a hope that 'poor Harlequin's' fall was not part of
the programme.  But she did not interfere, having trust in the
gymnastics that were studied at school by Jasper, who had been beguiled
into the game by Fly's fascinations.

'A far more realistic performance than the Rotherwood Butterfly's Ball
is likely to be,' said Aunt Jane, aside, as the various guests came up
for her departing kiss.  'And much more entertaining, if they could
only think so.  Where's Gillian?'

Gillian appeared on the stairs in her own person at the moment.  She
said Mrs.  Halfpenny had called her, and told her that 'Miss Dollars'
was crying, and that she did not think the child ought to be left alone
long to fret herself, but Saturday morning needments called away nurse
herself, so she had ordered in Miss Gillian as her substitute.  Gillian
was reading to her, and had only come away to make her farewells to
Aunt Jane.

'That is right, my dear,' said her mother; 'I will come and sit with
her after luncheon.'

For the whole youthful family were to turn out to superintend the
replantation of the much-enduring fir, which, it was hoped, might
survive for many another Christmas.

However, Lady Merrifield could not keep her promise, for a whole party
of visitors arrived just after the children's dinner was over.

'And it's old Mrs. Norgood,' sighed Gillian, looking over the
balusters, 'and she always slays for ages!'

'One of you young ladies must bide with Miss Dollars,' said Nurse
Halfpenny, decidedly, 'or we shall have her fretting herself ill
again.'

'Oh, nursie, can't you?' entreated Gillian.

'Me, Miss Gillian! How can I, when Miss Primrose is going out with the
whole clamjamfrie, and all the laddies, into the wet plantations?  Na--
one of ye maun keep the lassie company.  Ye've had your turn, Miss
Gillian, so it should be Miss Mysie.  It winna hurt ye, bairn, ye that
hae been rampaging ower the house all the morning.'

Mysie knew it was her turn, but she also knew that nurse always
favoured Gillian and snubbed her.  She had a devouring longing to be
with her dear Fly, and a certain sense that she was the preferred one.
Must another pleasure be sacrificed to that very naughty Dolores, whose
misdemeanours had deprived them of the visit to Rotherwood.  She looked
so dismal that Gillian said good-naturedly,  'Really, Mysie, I don't
think mamma would mind Dolores's being left a little while; I must go
down to see about the Tree, because mamma gave me a message to old
Webb,  but I'll come back directly.  Or perhaps Dolly is going to
sleep, and does not want any one.  Go and see.'

Mysie on this crept quietly into the room, full of hope of escape, but
Dolores was anything but asleep.  'Oh, are you come, Mysie?  Now you'll
go on with the story.  I tried, but my eyes ache at the back of them,
and I can't.'

Mysie's fate was sealed.  She sat down by the fire and took up the
book, 'A Story for the Schoolroom,' one of the new ones given from the
Tree.  It was the middle of the story, and she did not care about it at
first, especially when she heard Fly's voice, and all the others
laughing and chattering on the stairs.

'Didn't they care for her absence?' and her voice grew thick, and her
eyes dim; but Dolores must not think her cross and unwilling, and she
made a great effort, became interested in the girls there described,
and wondered whether staying with Fly would have turned her head, after
the example of the heroine of the book.

Dolores did not seem to want to talk.  In fact, she was clinging to the
reading, because she could not bear to speak or think of the state of
affairs, and the story seemed, as it were, to drown her misery.  She
knew that her aunt and cousins were far less severe with her than she
expected, but that could only be because she was ill.  Had not Uncle
Reginald turned against her, and Constance?  It would all come upon her
as soon as she came out of her room, and she was rather sorry to
believe that she should be up and.  about to-morrow morning.

Mysie read on till the short, winter day showed the first symptoms of
closing in.  Then Lady Merrifield came up.  'You here, little nurse?'
she said.  'Run out now and meet the others.  I'll stay with Dolly.'
Mysie knew by the kiss that her mother was  pleased with her; but
Dolores dreaded the talk with her aunt, and made herself sleepy.




CHAPTER XVI

THE INCONSTANCY OF CONSTANCE.



The two gentlemen who had gone to Darminster brought home tidings that
the police who had been put on the track of Flinders had telegraphed
that it was thought that a person answering to his description had
embarked at Liverpool in an American-bound steamer.

This idea, though very uncertain, was a relief, at least to all except
the boys, who thought it a great shame that such a rascal should
escape, and wanted to know whether the Americans could not be made to
give him up.  They did not at all understand their elders being glad,
for the sake of Maurice Mohun and his dead wife, that the man should
not be publicly convicted, and above all that Dolores should not have
to bear testimony against him in court, and describe her own very
doubtful proceedings.  Besides, there would have been other things to
try him for, since he had cheated the publishing house which employed
him of all he had been able to get into his hands.  There was reason to
believe that he had heavy debts, especially gambling ones, and that he
had become desperate since he no longer had his step-sister to fall
back upon.

Looking into his room, among other papers, a half-burnt manuscript was
found upon his grate among some exhausted cinders, as if he had been
trying to use the unfortunate 'Waif of the Moorland' to eke out his
last fire.  Moreover, the proprietor of the Politician told Colonel
Mohun of having remonstrated with him on the exceeding weakness and
poorness of the 'Constantia' poetry, 'which,' as that indignant
personage added, 'was evidently done merely as a lure to the
unfortunate young lady.'

The fifteen pounds had been accepted in an honourable and ladylike
manner by the elder sister--but without any overpowering expression of
gratitude.  No doubt it was a bitter pill to her, forced down by
necessity, and without guessing that it cost the donors anything.

Dolores's mind was set at rest as to Flinders's evasion before night,
and on the Sunday morning even Nurse Halfpenny could find out nothing
the matter with her, so that she was obliged to make her appearance as
usual.  Uncle Reginald did not kiss her, he only gave a cold nod, and
said 'Good morning.'  Otherwise all went on as usual, and it was
pleasant to find that Fly was as entirely used as they were to learning
Collect and hymn, and copying out texts illustrating Catechism, and
that she was expected to have them ready to repeat them to her mother
some time in the afternoon.  There was something, too, that Mysie could
not have described, but which she liked, in the manner in which, on
this morning, Dolores accepted small acts of good nature, such as
finding a book for her, getting a new pen and helping her to the
whereabouts of a Scriptural reference.  It seemed for the first time as
if she liked to receive a kindness, and her 'thank you' really had a
sound of thanks, instead of being much more like 'I wish you would
not.'  Mysie felt really encouraged to be kind, and when, on setting
forth to church, everybody was crowding round trying to walk with Fly,
and Dolores was going along lonely and deserted, Mysie resigned her
chance of one side of the favourite Phyllis, and dropped back to give
her company to the solitary one.  To her surprise and gratification,
Dolores took hold of her hand, and listened quite willingly to her
chatter about the schemes for the fortnight that Fly was to be left
with them.  Presently Constance was seen going markedly by the other
gate of the churchyard, quite out of her usual way, and not even
looking towards them.

It was the last day of the old year, and, in the midst of the Christmas
joy, there were allusions to it in the services and hymns.  Something
in the tune of 'Days and moments quickly flying,' touched some chord in
Dolores's spirit, and set her off crying.  She would have done anything
to stop it, but there was no helping it, great round splashes came
down, and the more she was afraid of being noticed, the worse the
choking grew.  At last, the very worst person--she thought--to take
notice.  Uncle Reginald, did so, and, under cover of a general rising,
said sternly, 'Stop that, or go out.'

Stop that!  Much did the colonel know about a girl's tears, or how she
would have given anything to check them.  But here was Aunt Lily edging
down to her, taking her by the hand, leading her out, she did not know
how, stopping all who would have come after them with help--then
pausing a little in the open, frosty air.

'Oh, Aunt Lily! I am very sorry!'

'Never mind that, my dear.  Do you feel poorly?'

'Oh no; I'm quite well--only--'

'Only overcome--I don't wonder--my dear--can you walk quietly home with
me?'

'Yes, please.'

Nothing was said till they had passed the 'idle corner,' where men and
half-grown lads smoked their pipes in anything but Sunday trim; and
stared at the lady making her exit, till they were through the short
street with shop windows closed, and a strong atmosphere of cooking,
and had come into the quiet lane leading to the paddock.  Then Lady
Merrifield laid her hand on the girl's shoulder very gently, and said,
'It was too much for you, my dear, you are not quite strong yet.'

'Oh yes; I'm well.  Only I am so very--very miserable,' and the gust of
sobs and tears rushed on her again.

'Dear child, I should like to be able to help you!'

'You can't! I've done it! And--and they'll all be against me always--
Uncle Regie and all!'

'Uncle Regie was very much hurt, but I'm sure he will forgive you when
he sees how sorry you are. You know we all hope this is going to be a
fresh start.  I am sure you were deceived.'

'Yes,' said Dolores.  'I never could have thought he--Uncle Alfred--was
such a dreadful man'

'I expect that since he lost your mother's influence and help he may
have sunk lower than when you had seen him before.  Did your father
give you any directions about him?'

'No.  Father hated to hear of him' and never spoke about him if he
could help it; and we thought it was all Mohun high notions because he
wasn't quite a gentleman.'

'I see.  Indeed, my dear, though you have done very wrong, I have
already felt that there was great excuse for you in trying to keep up
intercourse with a person who belonged to your mother.  I wish you had
told me, but I suppose you were afraid.'

'Yes' said Dolores.  'And I thought you were sure to be cross and
harsh,' she muttered.  And then suddenly looking up, 'Oh, Aunt Lily!
everybody is angry but you--you and Mysie!  Please go on being kind! I
believe you've been good to me always.'

'My dear, I've tried,' said Lady Merrifield, with fears in her brown
eyes and a choke in her voice caressing the hand that had been put into
hers.  'I have wished very much to make you happy with us; but the ways
of a large family must be a trial to a new-comer.'

Dolores raised her face for a kiss, and said, 'I see it now.  But I did
not like everything always, and I thought aunts were sure to be
unkind.'

'That was very hard.  And why?'

She was heard to mutter something about aunts in books always being
cross.

'Ah! my dear! I suppose there are some unkind aunts, but I am sure
there are a great many more who wish with all their hearts to make
happy homes for their nieces.  I hope now we may do so.  I have more
hope than ever I had, and so I shall write to your father.'

'And please--please,' cried Dolores, 'don't let Uncle Regie write him a
very dreadful letter! I know he will.'

'I think you can prevent that best yourself, by telling Uncle Regie how
sorry you are.  He was specially grieved because he thinks you told him
two direct falsehoods.'

'Oh! I didn't think they were that,' said Dolores, 'for it was true
that father did not leave anything with me for Uncle Alfred.  And I did
not know whether it was me whom he saw at Darminster.  I did tell you
one once, Aunt Lily, when you asked if I gave Constance a note.  At
least, she gave it to me, and not I to her.  Indeed, I don't tell
falsehoods, Aunt Lily--I mean I never did at home, but Constance said
everybody said those sort of things at school, and that one was driven
to it when one was---'

'Was what, my dear?'

'Tyrannized over,' Dolores got out.

'Ah! Dolly, I am afraid Constance was no real friend.  It was a great
mistake to think her like Miss Hacket.'

'And now she has sent back all my notes, and won't look at me or speak
to me,' and Dolores's tears began afresh.

'It is very ungenerous of her, but very likely she will be very sorry
to have done so when her first anger is over, and she understands that
you were quite as much deceived as she was.'

'But I shall never care for her again.  It is not like Mysie, who never
stopped being kind all the time--nor Gillian either.  I shall cut her
next time!'

'You should remember that she has something to forgive.  I don't want
you to be intimate with her but I think it would be better if, instead
of quarrelling openly, you wrote a note to say that you were deceived
and that you are very sorry for what you brought on her.'

'I should not have gone on with it but for her and Her stupid poems!'

'Can you bear to tell me how it all was, my dear?  I do not half
understand it.'

And on the way home, and in Lady Merrifield's own room Dolores found it
a relief to pour forth an explanation of the whole affair, beginning
with that meeting with Mr.  Flinders at Exeter, of which no one had
heard, and going on to her indignation at the inspection of her
letters; and how Constance had undertaken to conduct her
correspondence, 'and that made it seem as if she must write to some
one,'--so she wrote to Uncle Alfred.  And then Constance, becoming
excited at the prospect of a literary connection, all the rest
followed.  It was a great relief to have told it all, and Lady
Merrifield was glad to see that the sense of deceit was what weighed
most heavily upon her niece, and seemed to have depressed her all
along.  Indeed, the aunt came to the conclusion that though Dolores
alone might still have been sullen, morose and disagreeable, perhaps
very reserved, she never would have kept up the systematic deceit but
for Constance.  The errors, regarded as sin, weighed on Lady
Merrifield's mind, but she judged it wiser not to press that thought on
an unprepared spirit, trusting that just as Dolores had wakened to the
sense of the human love that surrounded her, hitherto disbelieved and
disregarded, so she might yet awake to the feeling of the Divine love
and her offence against it.

The afternoon was tolerably free, for the gentlemen, including the
elder boys, walked to evensong at a neighbouring church noted for its
musical services, and Lady Merrifield, as she said, 'lashed herself up'
to go with Gillian, carry back the remnant of the unhappy 'Waif,' and
'have it out' with Constance, who would, she feared, never otherwise
understand the measure of her own delinquency, and from whom, perhaps,
evidence might be extracted which would palliate the poor child's
offence in the eyes of Colonel Mohun.  Both the Hacket sisters looked
terribly frightened when she appeared, and the elder one made an excuse
for getting her outside the door to beseech her to be careful, dear
Constance was so nervous and so dreadfully upset by all she had
undergone.  Lady Merrifield was not the least nervous of the two, and
she felt additionally displeased with Constance for not having said one
word of commiseration when her sister had inquired for Dolores.  On
returning to the drawing-room, Lady Merrifield found the young lady
standing by the window, playing with the blind, and looking as if she
wanted to make her escape.

'I do not know whether you will be sorry or glad to see this,' said
Lady Merrifield, producing a half-burnt roll of paper.  'It was found
in Mr.  Flinders's grate, and my brother thought you would be glad that
it should not get into strange hands.'

'Oh, it was cruel! it was base! What a wicked man he is!' cried
Constance, with hot tears, as she beheld the mutilated condition of her
poor 'Waif.'

'Yes, it was a most unfortunate thing that you.  should have run into
intercourse with such an utterly untrustworthy person.'

'I was grossly deceived, Lady Merrifield!' said Constance, clasping her
hands somewhat theatrically.

'I shall never believe in any one again!'

'Not without better grounds, I hope,' was the answer.  'Your poor
little friend is terribly broken down by all this.'

'Don't call her my friend.  Lady Merrifield.  She has used me
shamefully! What business had she to tell me he was her uncle when he
was no such thing?'

'She had been always used to call him so.'

'Don't tell me, Lady Merrifield,' said Constance, who, after her first
fright, was working herself into a passion.  'You don't know what a
little viper you have been warming, nor what things she has been
continually saying of you.  She told me--'

Lady Merrifield held up her hand with authority.

'Stay, Constance.  Do you think it is generous in you to tell me this?'

'I am sure you ought to know.'

'Then why did you encourage her?'

'I pitied her--I believed her--I never thought she would have led me
into this!'

'How did she lead you?'

'Always talking about her precious, persecuted uncle.  I believe she
was in league with him all the time!'

'That is nonsense,' said Lady Merrifield, 'as you must see if you
reflect a little.  Dolores was too young to have been told this man's
real character; she only knew that her mother, who had spent her
childhood with him, treated him as a brother, and did all she could for
him.  Dolores did very wrongly and foolishly in keeping up a connection
with him unknown to me; but I cannot help feeling there was great
excuse for her, and she was quite as much deceived as you were.'

'Oh, of course, you stand by your own niece, Lady Merrifield.  If you
knew what horrid things she said about your pride and unkindness, as
she called it, you would not think she deserved it.'

'Nay, that is exactly what does most excuse her in my eyes.  Her
fancying such things of me was what did prevent her from confiding in
me.'

Constance had believed herself romantic, but the Christian chivalry of
Lady Merrifield's nature was something quite beyond her.  She muttered
something about Dolores not deserving, which made her visitor really
angry, and say, 'We had better not talk of deserts.  Dolores is a mere
child--a mother-less child, who had been a good deal left to herself
for many months.  I let her come to you because she seemed shy and
unhappy with us, and I did not like to deny her the one pleasure she
seemed to care for.  I knew what an excellent person and thorough lady
your sister is, and I thought I could perfectly trust her with you.  I
little thought you would have encouraged her in concealment, and--I
must say--deceit, and thus made me fail in the trust her father reposed
in me.'

'I would never have done it,' Constance sobbed, 'but for what she said
about you.  Lady Merrifield!'

'Well, and even if I am such a hard, severe person, does that make it
honourable or right to help the child I trusted to you to carry on this
underhand correspondence?'

Constance hung her head.  Her sister had said the same to her, but she
still felt herself the most injured party, and thought it very hard
that she should be so severely blamed for what the girls at her school
treated so lightly.  She said, 'I am very sorry.  Lady Merrifield,' but
it was not exactly the tone of repentance, and it ended with: 'If it
had not been for her, I should never have done it.'

'I suppose not, for there would have been no temptation.  I was in
hopes that you would have shown some kindlier and more generous feeling
towards the younger girl, who could not have gone so far wrong without
your assistance, and who feels your treatment of her very bitterly.
But to find you incapable of understanding what you have done, makes me
all the more glad that the friendship--if friendship it can be called--
is broken off between you.  Good-bye.  I think when you are older and
wiser, you will be very sorry to recollect the doings of the last few
months.'

Lady Merrifield walked away, and found on her return that Dolores had
succeeded in writing to her father, and was so utterly tired out by the
feelings it had cost her that she was only fit to lie on the sofa and
sleep.

Gillian was, of course, not seen till she came home from evening
service.

'Oh, mamma,' she said, 'what did you do to Constance?'

'Why?'

'Well, I heard you shut the front door.  And presently after there came
such a noise through the wall that all the girls pricked up their ears,
and Miss Hacket jumped up in a fright.  If it had been Val, one would
have called it a naughty child roaring.'

'What! did I send her into hysterics?'

'I suppose, as she is grown up, it must have the fine name, but it
wasn't a bit like poor Dolly's choking.  I am sure she did it to make
her sister come! Well, of course, Miss Hacket went away, and I did the
best I could, but what could one do with all these screeches and
bellowings breaking out?'

'For shame.  Gill!'

'I can't help it, mamma.  If you had only seen their faces when the
uproar came in a fresh gust! How they whispered, and some looked awe-
struck.  I thought I had better get rid of them, and come home myself;
but Miss Hacket met me, and implored me to stay, and I was weak-minded
enough to do so.  I wish I hadn't, for it was only to be provoked past
bearing.  That horrid girl has poisoned even Miss Hacket's mind, and
she thinks you have been hard on her darling.  You did not know how
nervous and timid dear Connie is!'

'Well, Gill, I confess she made me very angry, and I told her what I
thought of her.'

'And that she didn't choose to hear!'

'Did you see her again?'

'No, I am thankful to say, I did not.  But Miss Hacket would go on all
tea-time, explaining and explaining for me to tell you how dear Connie
is so affectionate and so easily led, and how Dolores came over her
with persuasions, and deceived her.  I declare I never liked Dolly so
well before.  At any rate, she doesn't make professions, and not a bit
more fuss than she can help.  And there was Miss Hacket getting brandy
cherries and strong coffee, and I don't know what all, because dear
Connie was so overcome, and dear Lady Merrifield was quite under a
mistake, and so deceived by Dolores.  I told Miss Hacket you were never
under a mistake nor deceived.'

'You didn't, Gillian!'

'Yes, I did, and the stupid woman only wanted to kiss me (but I
wouldn't let her) and said I was very right to stand up for my dear
mamma.  As if that had anything to do with it! What are you laughing
at, mamma?  Why, Uncle Regie is laughing, and Cousin Rotherwood! What
is it?'

'At the two partisans who never stand up for their own families,' said
Uncle Regie.

'But it's true!' cried Gillian.

'What! that I am never mistaken nor deceived?' said Lady Merrifield.

'Except when you took Miss Constance for a sensible woman, eh?' said
her brother.

'That I never did! But I did take her for a moderately honourable one.'

'Well, that was a mistake,' owned Gillian.  'And Miss Hacket is as bad!
There's no gratitude---'

'Hush!' broke in her mother; and Gillian stopped abashed, while Lady
Merrifield continued, 'I won't have Miss Hacket abused.  She is only
blinded by sisterly affection.'

'I don't think I can go there again,' said Gillian, 'after what she
said about you.'

'Nonsense!' said her mother.  'Don't be as bad as Constance in trying
to make me angry by telling me all poor Dolly's grumblings.'

'Follow your mother's example, Gillian,' said Lord Rotherwood, 'and, if
possible, never hear, certainly never attend to, what any one says of
you behind your back.'

'Is said to have said of you, you should add, Rotherwood,' put in the
colonel.  'It is a decree worse than eavesdropping.'

'Oh, Regie!' exclaimed his sister.

'Well, not perhaps for your own honour and conscience, but the keyhole
is a more trustworthy medium than the reporter.'

'That's a strong way of stating it, but, at any rate, the keyhole has
no temper nor imagination, or prejudice of its own,' said Lady
Merrifield.

'No, and as far as it goes, it enables you to judge of the frame in
which the words, even if correctly reported, were spoken,' added
Colonel Mohun.

'The moral of which is,' said Lord Rotherwood, drolly, 'that Gillian is
not to take notice of anyone's observations upon her unless she has
heard them through the keyhole.'

'And so one would never hear them at all.'

'Q. E. D.,' said Lord Rotherwood.  'And now, Lily, do you.  ever sing
the two evening-hymns.  Ken and Keble, now, as the family used to do on
Sundays at the Old Court, long ere the days of  'Hymns Ancient and
Modern'?

'Don't we?' said Lady Merrifield.  'Only all our best voices will be
singing it at Rawul Pindee!'

And, as she struck a note on the piano, all the younger people still
up, Mysie, Phyllis, Wilfred and Valetta, gathered round from the outer
room to join in their evening Sunday delight.  Fly put her hand into
her father's and whispered, 'You told me about it, daddy.'  He began to
sing, but his voice thickened as he missed the tones once associated
with it.  And Lady Merrifield, too, nearly broke down as with all her
heart she sang, hopefully,


                   'Now Lord, the gracious work begin.'




CHAPTER XVII.

THE STONE MELTING.



It was with a strange feeling that Dolores woke on the New Year's
morning, that something was very sad and strange, and yet that there
was a sense of relief.   For one thing, that terrible confession to her
father was written, and was no longer a weight hanging over her.  And
though his answer was still to come, that was months away.  There was
Uncle Regie greatly displeased with her; there was Constance treating
her as a traitor; there was the mischief done, and yet something hard
and heavy was gone?  Something sweet and precious had come in on her!
Surely it was, that now she knew and felt that she could trust in Aunt
Lilias--yes, and in Mysie.  She got up, quite looking forward to
meeting those gentle, brown eyes of her aunt's, that she seemed never
before to have looked into, and to feeling the sweet, motherly kiss
which had so mud,  more meaning in it now, as almost to make up for
Uncle Reginald's estrangement.

She even anticipated gladly those ten minutes alone with her aunt,
which she used to dislike so much, hoping that the holiday-time would
not hinder them.  Really wishing to please her aunt, she had learnt her
portion perfectly, and Lady Merrifield showed that she appreciated the
effort, though still it was more a lesson than a reality.

'My dear!' she said, 'I am afraid this is another blow for you--it came
this morning.'

It was the account from Professor Muhlwasser's German publisher,
amounting to a few shillings more than six pounds.  And an announcement
that the books were on the way.

'Oh,' cried Dolores, 'I thought he was dead! He told me so! Uncle
Alfred, I mean! And it was only to get the money! How could he be so
wicked?'

'I am afraid that was all he cared for.'

'And what shall I do.  Aunt Lily?  Will you pay it, please, and take
all my allowance till it is made up?'

'I think it will be more comfortable for you if I do something of that
sort, though I don't think you should go entirely without money.  You
have a pound a quarter.  I was going to give you yours at once.'

'Oh, take it--pray--'

'Suppose I give you five shillings, instead of twenty.  I do not think
it well to leave you with nothing for a year and a half, and this is
nearly what Mysie has.'

'A shilling a month--very well.  I wish I could pay it all at once!'

'No doubt you do, my dear, but this will keep you in mind for a long
time what a dangerous thing you did in giving away money you had no
right to dispose of.'

'Yes,' said Dolores.  'Mother earned money for him.  I know she never
took father's without asking him; but I couldn't earn, and couldn't
ask.'

Lady Merrifield kissed her, for very joy, to hear no sullenness in her
tone; and then all went to church together on the New Year's day that
was to be the beginning of better things.  Lord Rotherwood had just
time to go before meeting the train which was to take him to High
Court, leaving his Fly too much used to his absences to be distressed
about them, and, in fact, somewhat crazy about a notion which Gillian
had started that morning, of getting up a little play to surprise him
when he came back for Twelfth Day, as he promised to do.

Mamma declared that if it was in French, and the words were learnt
every morning before half-past eleven, it should supersede all other
lessons; but such was the hatred of the whole boy faction to French,
that they declared they had rather do rational sensible lessons twice
over than learn such rot, and this carried the day.  The drama proposed
was that one in an old number of  'Aunt Judy,' where the village mayor
is persuaded by the drummer to fine the girls for wearing lace caps.
The French original existed in the house, and Fly started the idea that
the male performers should speak English and the female French; but
this was laughed down.

In the midst Uncle Reginald came to the door and called, 'Lilias, can
you speak to me a minute?'

Lady Merrifield went out into the hall to him.

'Here's a policeman come over, Lily.  They have got the fellow!'
'Flinders?'


'Yes; arrested him on board a steamer at Bristol.'

'Oh, I wish they had let it alone!'

'So do I.  They are bringing him back.  The Darminster City bench sits
to-day, and they want that unlucky child over there to make her
deposition for his committal.'

'Can't they commit him without her?'

'Not for the forgery.  The bank people are bent on prosecuting for
that, and we can't stop them.  I suppose she can be depended on?'

'Reginald, don't! I told you the deceit was an unnatural growth from
Constance's pseudo sentiment.'

'Well, get her ready to come with me,' said the colonel, with a gesture
of doubt; 'we must catch the 12.50.  The superintendent brought a fly.'

'You will frighten her out of her senses.  I can't let her go alone
with you in this mood.'

'As you please, if you choose to knock yourself up.  I'll tell the
superintendent, and walk on to the station.  You've not a moment to
lose, so don't let her stand dawdling and crying.'

It was a hard task for Lady Merrifield.  She called Dolores, whom Mysie
was inviting to be one of the village maidens, and bade her put on her
things quickly.  She ordered cold meat and wine into the dining-room,
called Gillian into her room, and explained while dressing, and bade
her keep the others away.  Then, meeting Dolores on the stairs took her
into the dining-room and made her swallow some cold beef, and drink
some sherry, before telling her that the magistrates at Darminster
wanted to ask her some questions.  Dolores looked pale and frightened,
and exclaimed,

'Oh, but he has got away!'

'My dear, I am grieved to say that he has not.'

Dolores understood, and submitted more quietly and resignedly than her
aunt had feared.  She was a barrister's daughter, and once or twice her
father had taken her and her mother part of the way on circuit with
him, and she had been in court, so that she had known from the first
that if her uncle were arrested there was no choice but that she must
speak out.  So she only trembled very much and said--

'Aunt Lily, are you going with me?'

'Indeed I am, my poor child.  Uncle Regie is gone on.'

No more was spoken then, but Dolores put her cold hand into her aunt's
muff.

Gillian kept all  the flock prisoned in the schoolroom.  Wilfred, Val,
and Fergus rushed to the window, and were greatly disappointed not to
see a policeman on the box, 'taking Dolores to be tried'--as Fergus
declared, and Wilfred insisted, just because Gillian and Mysie
contradicted it with all their might.  He continued to repeat it with
variations and exaggerations, until Jasper heard him, and declared that
he should have a thorough good licking if he said so again,
administering a cuff by way of earnest.  Wilfred howled, and was
ordered not to be such an ape, and Fly looked on in wonder at the
domestic discipline.

The superintendent had, in fact, walked on with Uncle Reginald, and
Dolores saw nothing of him, but was put into an empty first-class
carriage, into which her aunt followed her, but her uncle, observing,
'You know how to manage her, Lily,' betook himself to a smoking-
carriage, and left them to themselves.

Dolores was never a very talking girl, and the habit of silence had
grown upon her.  She leant against her aunt and she put her arm round
her, and did not attempt to say anything till she asked,

'Will he be there?'

'I don't know, I am afraid he will.  It is very sad for you, my poor
Dolly; but we must recollect that, after all, it may be much better for
him to be stopped now than to go on and get worse and worse in some
strange country.'

Dolores did not ask what she was to do, she knew enough already about
trials to understand that she was only to answer questions, and she
presently said,

'This can't be his trial.  There are no assizes now.'

'No, this is only for the committal.  It will very soon be over, if you
will only answer quietly and steadily.  If you do so, I think Uncle
Regie will be pleased, and tell your father!  I am sure I shall!'

Dolores pressed up closer and laid her cheek against the soft sealskin.
In the midst of her trouble there was a strange wonder in her.  Could
this be really the aunt whom she had thought so cruel, unjust, and
tyrannical, and from whom she had so carefully hidden her feelings?
Nobody got into the carriage, and just before reaching Darminster, Lady
Merrifield made a great effort over her own shyness and said,

'Now, Dolly, we will pray a little prayer that you may be a faithful
witness, and that God may turn it, all to good for your poor uncle.'

Dolores was very much surprised, and did not know whether she liked it
or not, but she saw her aunt's closed eyes and uplifted hands, and she
tried to follow the example.

The train stopped, and her uncle came to the door, looking inquiringly
at her.

'She will be good and brave,' said her aunt; and quickly passing across
the platform, Dolores found herself beside her aunt, with her uncle
opposite in another fly.

Things had been arranged for them considerately, and after they came to
the Guildhall, where the city magistrates were sitting, Colonel Mohun
went at once into court; the others were taken to a little room, and
waited there a few minutes before Colonel Mohun came to call for his
niece.  It was a long room, with a rail at one end, and Dolores knew,
with a strange thrill which made her shudder, that Mr. Flinders was
there, but she could not bear to look at him, and only squeezed hard at
the hand of her aunt, who asked, in a somewhat shaky voice, if she
might come with her niece.

'Certainly, certainly.  Lady Merrifield,' said one of the magistrates,
and chairs were set both for her and Colonel Mohun.

'You are Miss Mohun, I think--may I ask your Christian name in full?'
And then she had to spell it, and likewise tell her exact age, after
which she was put on oath--as she knew enough of trials to expect.

'Are you residing with Lady Merrifield?'

'Yes.'

'But your father is living?'

'Yes, but he is in the Fiji Islands.'

'Will you favour us with his exact name?'

'Maurice Devereux Mohun.'

'When did he leave England?'

'The fifth of last September.'

'Did he leave any money with you?'

'Yes.'

'In what form?'

'A cheque on W----'s Bank.

'To bearer or order?'

'To order.'

'What was the date?'

'I think it was the 31st of August, but I am not sure.'

'For how much?'

'For seven pounds.'

'When did you part with it?'

'On the Friday before Christmas Day.'

'Did you do anything to it first?'

'I wrote my name on the back.'

'What did you do with it.'

'I sent it to--' her voice became a little hoarse, but she brought out
the words--'to Mr. Flinders.'

'Is this the same?'

'Yes--only some one has put 'ty' to the 'seven' in writing, and 0 to
the figure 7.'

'Can you swear to the rest as your father's writing and your own?'

The evidence of the banker's clerk as to the cashing of the cheque had
been already taken, and the magistrate said, 'Thank you.  Miss Mohun, I
think the case is complete, and we need not trouble you any more.'

But the prisoner's voice made Dolores start and shudder again, as he
said,

'I beg your pardon, sir, but you have not asked the young lady'--there
was a sort of sneer in his voice--'how she sent this draft.'

'Did not you send it direct by the post?' demanded the magistrate.

'No; I gave it to--' Again she paused, and the words 'Gave it to--?'
were authoritatively repeated, so that she had no choice.

'I gave it to Miss Constance Hacket to send.'

'You will observe, sir,' said Flinders, in a somewhat insolent tone,
'that the evidence which the witness has been so ready to adduce is
incomplete.  There is another link between her hands and mine.'

'You may reserve that point for your defence on your trial,' rejoined
the magistrate.  'There is quite sufficient evidence for your
committal.'

There was already a movement to let Dolores be taken away by her uncle
and aunt, so as to spare her from any reproach or impertinence that
Flinders might launch at her.  She was like some one moving in a dream,
glad that her aunt should hold her hand as if she were a little child,
saying, as they came out into the street, 'Very clearly and steadily
done, Dolly! Wasn't it, Uncle Regie?'

'Yes,' he said, absently.  'We must look out, or we shan't catch the
4.50 train.'

He almost threw them into a cab, and made the driver go his quickest,
so that, after all, they had full ten minutes to spare.  It made
Dolores sick at heart to go near the waiting and refreshment-rooms
where she and Constance had spent all that time with Flinders; but she
could not bear to say so before her uncle, and he was bent on getting
some food for Lady Merrifield.

'Not soup, Regie; there might not be time to swallow it.  A glass of
milk for us each, please; we can drink that at once, and anything solid
that we can take with us.  I am sure your mouth must be dry, my dear.'

Very dry it was, and Dolores gladly swallowed the milk, and found, when
seated in the train, that she was really hungry enough to eat her full
share of the sandwiches and buns which the colonel had brought in with
him; and then she sat resting against her aunt, closed her eyes, and
half dozed in the rattle of the train, not moving in the pause at the
stations, but quite conscious that Colonel Mohun said, 'Not a spark of
feeling for anybody, not even for that man! As hard as a stone!'

'For shame, Regie!' said her aunt.  'How angry you would have been if
she had made a scene.'

'I should have liked her better.'

'No, you wouldn't, when you come to understand.  There's stuff in her,
and depth too.'

'Aye, she's deep enough.'

'Poor child!' said Lady Merrifield, tenderly.  And then the train went
on, and the noise drowned the voices, so that Dolores only partly
heard, 'You will see how she will rise,' and the answer, 'You may be
right; I hope so.  But I can't get over deliberate deceit.'

He settled himself in his corner, and Lady Merrifield durst not move
nor raise her voice lest she should break what seemed such deep
slumber, but which really was half torpor, half a dull dismay, holding
fast eyes, lips, and limbs, and which really became sleep, so that
Dolores did not hear the next bit of conversation during the ensuing
halt.

'I say, Lily, I did not like the fellow's last question.  He means to
give trouble about it.'

'I was sorry the other name was brought in, but it must have come
sooner or later.'

'That's true; but if she can't swear to the figures on the draft, ten
to one that the fellow will get off.'

'You don't doubt--'

'No, no; but there's the chance for the defence, and he was sharp
enough to see it.'

'There is nothing to be said or done about it, of course.'

'Of course not.  There's nothing for it but to let it alone.'

They went on again, and when the train reached Silverton, Dolly was
dreaming that her father had come, and that he said Uncle Alfred should
be hanged unless she found the money for Professor Muhlwasser.  She
even looked about for him, and said, 'Where's father?' when she was
wakened to get out.

Gillian came up to her mother's room to hear what had happened, and to
give an account of the day, which had gone off prosperously by Harry's
help.  He had kept excellent order at dinner, and 'there's something
about Fly which makes even Wilfred be mannerly before her.'  And then
they had gone out and had made Fly free of the Thorn Fortress.

'My dear, that must have been terribly damp and cold at this time of
year.'

'I thought of that, mamma, and so we didn't sit down, and made it a
guerrilla war; only Fergus couldn't understand the difference between
guerrillas and gorillas, and would thump upon himself and roar when
they were in ambush.'

'Rather awkward for the ambush!'

'Yes, Wilfred said he was a traitor, and tied him to a tree, and then
Fly found him crying, and would have let him out; but she couldn't get
the knots undone; and what do you think?  She made Wilfred cut the
string himself with his own knife! I never knew such a girl for making
every one do as she pleases.  Then, when it got dark, we came in, and
had a sort of a kind of a rehearsal, only that nobody knew any of the
parts, or what each was to be.'

'A sort of a kind, indeed, it must have been!'

'But we think the play will be lovely! You can't think how nice Fly
was.  You know we settled for her to be Annette, the dear, funny,
naughty girl, but as soon as she saw that Val wanted the part, she said
she didn't care, and gave it up directly, and I don't think we ought to
let her, and Hal thinks so too; and all the boys are very angry, and
say Val will make a horrid mess of it.  Then Mysie wanted to give up
the good girl to Fly, and only be one of the chorus, but Fly says she
had rather be one of the chorus ones herself than that.  So we settled
that you should fix the parts, and we would abide by your choice.'

'I hope there was no quarrelling.'

'N--no; only a little falling upon Val by the boys, and Fly put a stop
to that.  Oh, mamma, if it were only possible to turn Dolly into Fly! I
can't help saying it, we seemed to get on so much better just because
we hadn't poor Dolly to make a deadweight, and tempt the boys to be
tiresome: while Fly made everything go off well.  I can't describe it,
she didn't in the least mean to keep order or interfere, but somehow
squabbles seem to die away before her, and nobody wants to be
troublesome.'

'Dear little thing! It is a very sweet disposition.  But, Gill, I do
believe that we shall see poor Dolly take a turn now!'

'Well! having quarrelled with that Constance is in her favour!'

'Try and think kindly of her trouble.  Gill, and then it will be easier
to be kind to her.'

Gillian sighed.  Falsehood and determined opposition to her mother were
the greatest possible crimes in her eyes; and at her age it was not
easy to separate the sin from the sinner.

New Year's night was always held to be one of especial merriment, but
Lady Merrifield was so much tired out by her expedition that she hardly
felt equal to presiding over any sports, and proposed that instead the
young folk should dance.  Gillian and Hal took turns to play for them,
and Uncle Reginald and Fly were in equal request as partners.  It was
Mysie who came to draw Dolores out of her corner, and begged her to be
her partner--'If you wouldn't very much rather not,' she said, in a
pleading, wistful, voice.

Dolores would 'very much rather not;' but she saw that Mysie would be
left out altogether if she did not consent, as Hal was playing and
Uncle Regie was dancing with Primrose.  She thought of resolutions to
turn over a new leaf, and not to refuse everything so she said, 'Yes,
this once,' and it was wonderful how much freshened she felt by the gay
motion, and perhaps by Mysie's merry, good-natured eyes and caressing
hand.  After that she had another turn with Gillian and one with Hal,
and even one with Fergus because, as he politely informed her, no one
else would have him for a quadrille.  But, just as this was in
progress, and she could not help laughing at his ridiculous mistakes
and contempt of rules she met Uncle Reginald's eye fixed on her in
wonder  'He thinks I don't care,' thought she to herself.  All her
pleasure was gone, and she moved so dejectedly that her aunt, watching
from the sofa, called her and told her she was over-tired, and sent her
to bed.

Dolores was tired, but not in the way which made it harder instead of
easier to sleep, or, rather, she slept just enough to relax her full
consciousness and hold over herself, and bring on her a misery of
terror and loneliness, and feeling of being forsaken by the whole
world.  And when she woke fully enough to understand the reality, it
was no better; she felt, then, the position she had put herself into,
and almost saw in the dark, Flinders's malicious vindictive glance
Constance's anger, Uncle Regie's cold, severe look and, worse than all,
her father reading her letter'

She fell again into an agony of sobbing, not without a little hope that
Aunt Lily would be again brought to her side.  At last the door was
softly pushed open in the dark, but it was not Aunt Lily, it was
Mysie's little bare feet that patted up to the bed, her arms that
embraced, her cheek that was squeezed against the tearful one--'Oh,
Dolly, Dolly! please don't cry so sadly!'

'Oh! it is so dreadful, Mysie!'

'Are you ill--like the other night?'

'No--but--Mysie--I can't bear it!'

'I don't want to call mamma,' said Mysie, thoughtfully, 'for she is so
much tired, and Uncle Regie and Gill said she would be quite knocked
up, and got her to come up to bed when we went.  Dolly, would it be
better if I got into your bed and cuddled you up?'

'Oh yes! oh yes! please do, there's a dear good Mysie.'

There was not much room, but that mattered the less, and the hugging of
the warm arms seemed to heal the terrible sense of being unloved and
forsaken, the presence to drive away the visions of angry faces that
had haunted her; but there was the longing for fellow-feeling on her,
and she said, 'That's nice! Oh, Mysie! you can't think what it is like!
Uncle Regie said I didn't care, and he could never forgive deliberate
deceit--and I was so fond of Uncle Regie!'

'Oh! but he will, if you never tell a story again,' said Mysie--and, as
she felt a gesture implying despair--'Yes, they do; I told a story
once.'

'You, Mysie! I thought you never did?'

'Yes, once, when we were crossing to Ireland and nurse wouldn't let
Wilfred tie our handkerchiefs together and fish over the side, and he
was very angry, and threw her parasol into the sea when she wasn't
looking; and I knew she would be so cross, that when she asked me if I
knew what was become of it, I said 'No,' and thought I didn't, really.
But then it came over me, again and again, that I had told a story,
and, oh! I was so miserable whenever I thought of it--at church, and
saying my prayers, you know; and mamma was poorly, and couldn't come to
us at night for ever so long, but at last I could bear it no longer, I
heard her say, 'Mysie is always truthful,' and then I did get it out,
and told her.  And, oh! she and papa were so kind, and they did quite
and entirely forgive me!'

'Yes, you told of your own accord; and they were your own--not Uncle
Regie.  Ah! Mysie, everybody hates me.  I saw them all looking at me.'

'No, no! Don't say such things.  Dolly.  None of us do anything so
shocking.'

'Yes, Jasper does, and Wilfred and Val!'

'No! no! no! they don't hate; only they are tiresome sometimes; but if
you wouldn't be cross they would be nice directly--at least Japs and
Val.  And 'tisn't hating with Willie, only he thinks teasing is fun.'

'And you and Gillian.  You can only just bear me.

'No! no! no!' with a great hug, 'that's not true.'

'You like Fly ever so much better!'

'She is so dear, and so funny,' said Mysie, the truthful, 'but somehow,
Dolly dear, do you know, I think if you and I got to love one another
like real friends, it would be nicer still than even Fly--because you
are here like one of us, you know; and besides, it would be more,
because you are harder to get at.  Will you be my own friend.  Dolly?'

'Oh, Mysie, I must!' and there was a fresh kissing and hugging.

'And there's mamma,' added Mysie.

'Yes, I know Aunt Lily does now; but, oh! if you had seen Uncle
Alfred's face, and heard Uncle Regie,' and Dolly began to sob again as
they returned on her.  'I see them whenever I shut my eyes!'

'Darling,' whispered Mysie, 'when I feel bad at night, I always kneel
up in bed and say my prayers again!'

'Do you ever feel bad?'

'Oh yes, when I'm frightened, or if I've been naughty, and haven't told
mamma.  Shall we do it, Dolly?'

'I don't know what that has to do with it, but we'll try.'

'Mamma told me something to say out of.'

The two little girls rose up, with clasped hands in their bed, and
Mysie whispered very low, but so that her companion heard, and said
with her a few childish words of confession, pleading and entreating
for strength, and then the Lord's Prayer, and the sweet old verse:--


         'I lay my body down to sleep,
          I give my soul to Christ to keep,
          Wake I at morn, as wake I never,
          I give my soul to Christ for ever.'


'Ah! but I am afraid of that.  I don't like it,' said Dolores, as they
lay down again.

'It won't make one never wake,' returned Mysie;  'and I do like to give
my soul to Christ.  It seems so to rest one, and make one not afraid.'

'I don't know,' said Dolores; 'and why did you say the Lord's Prayer?
That hasn't anything to do with it!'

'Oh, Dolly, when He is our Father near, though our own dear fathers are
far away, and there's deliver us from evil--all that hurts us, you
know-and forgive us.  It's all there.'

'I never thought that,' said Dolores.  'I think you have some different
prayers from mine.  Old nurse taught me long ago.  I wish you would
always say yours with me.  You make them nicer.'

Mysie answered with a hug, and a murmured 'If I can,' and offered to
say the 121st Psalm, her other step to comfort, and, as she said it,
she resolved in her mind whether she could grant Dolores's request; for
she was not sure whether she should be allowed  to leave her room
before saying her own, and she I knew enough of Dolores by this time to
be aware that to say she would ask mamma's leave would put an end to
all.  'I know,' was her final decision; 'I'll say my own first, and
then come to Dolly's room.'

But by that time Dolores was asleep, even if Mysie had not been too
sleepy to speak.

She meant to have rushed to the room she shared with Valetta before it
was time to get up, but Lots found the black head and the brown
together on Dolores's pillow, wrapped in slumber; and though Mysie flew
home as soon as she was well awake, Mrs. Halfpenny descended on her
while she was yet in her bath, and inflicted a sharp scolding for the
malpractice of getting into her cousin's bed.

'But Dolly was so miserable, nurse, and mamma was too tired to call.'

'Then you should have called me, Miss Mysie, and I'd have sorted her
well! You kenned well 'tis a thing not to be done and at your age; ye
should have minded your duties better.'

And nurse even intercepted Mysie on her way to Dolores's room, and
declared she would have no messing and gossiping in one another's
rooms.  Miss Mysie was getting spoilt among strangers.

Mysie went down with a strong sense of having been disobedient, as well
as of grief for Dolores's disappointment.  Happily mamma was late that
morning, and nobody was in her room but Primrose.  Poor Mysie had soon,
with tears in her eyes, confessed her transgression.  Her mother's
tears, to her great surprise, were on her cheek together with a kiss.
'Dear child, I am not displeased.  Indeed, I am not;  I will tell
nurse.  It must not be a habit, but this was an exception, and I am
only thankful you could comfort her.

'And, mamma, may I go now to her.  She said I could help her to say her
prayers, and I think she only has little baby ones that her nurse
taught her and she doesn't see into the Lord's Prayer.'

'My dear, my dear, if you can help her to pray you will do the thing
most sure to be a blessing to her of all.'

And when Mysie was gone, Lady Merrifield knelt down afresh in
thankfulness.




CHAPTER XVIII.

MYSIE AND DOLORES.



Things were going on more quietly at Silverton.  That is to say, there
were no outward agitations, for the house was anything but quiet.  Lady
Merrifield had no great love for children's parties, where, as she
said, they sat up too late, to eat and drink what was not good for
them, and to get presents that they did not care about; and though at
Dublin it had been necessary on her husband's account to give and take
such civilities, she had kept out of the exchange at Silverton.  But,
on the other hand, there were festivals, and she promoted a full amount
of special treats at home among themselves, or with only an outsider or
two, and she endured any amount of noise, provided it was not
quarrelsome, over-boisterous, or at unfit times.

There was the school tea, and magic-lantern, when Mr. Pollock acted as
exhibitor, and Harry as spokesman, and worked them up gradually from
grave and beautiful scenes like the cedars of Lebanon, the Parthenon
and Colosseum, with full explanations, through dissolving views of
cottage and bridge by day and night, summer and winter, of life-boat
rescue, and the siege of Sevastopol, with shells flying, on to Jack and
the Beanstalk and the New Tale of a Tub, the sea-serpent, and the nose-
grinding! Lady Phyllis's ecstacy was surpassing, more especially as she
found her beloved little maid-of-all-work, and was introduced to all
that small person's younger brothers and sisters.

Here they met Miss Hacket, who was in charge of a class.  She comported
herself just as usual, and Gillian's dignity and displeasure gave way
before her homely cordiality.  Constance had not come, as indeed
nothing but childhood, sympathy with responsibility for childhood,
could make the darkness, stuffiness, and noise of the exhibition
tolerable.  Even Lady Merrifield trusted her flock to its two elders,
and enjoyed a tete-a-tete evening with her brother, who profited by it
to advise her strongly to send Dolores to their sister Jane before harm
was done to her own children.

'I would not see that little Mysie of yours spoilt for all the world,'
said he.

'Nor I; but I don't think it likely to happen.'

'Do you know that they are always after each other, chattering in their
bedrooms at night.  I hear them through the floor.'

'Only one night--Mysie told me all about it--I believe Mysie will do
more for that poor child than any of us.'

Uncle Regie shrugged his shoulders a little.

'Yes, I know I was wrong before, when I wouldn't take Jane's warning;
but that was not about one of my own, and, besides, poor Dolores is
very much altered.'

'I'll  tell you what, Lily, when any one, I don't care who, man, or
woman, or child, once is given up to that sort of humbug and deceit,
carrying it on a that girl, Dolores, had done, I would never trust
again an inch beyond what I could see.  It eats into the very marrow of
the bones--everything is acting afterwards.'

'That would be saying no repentance was possible--that Jacob never
could become Israel.'

'I only say I have never seen it.'

'Then I hope you will, nay, that you do.  I believe your displeasure is
the climax of all Dolly's troubles.'

But Colonel Reginald Mohun could not forgive the having been so
entirely deceived where he had so fully trusted; and there was no
shaking his opinion that Dolores was essentially deceitful and devoid
of feeling and that the few demonstrations of emotion that were brought
before him were only put on to excite the compassion of her weakly,
good-natured aunt, so he only answered, 'You always were a soft one
Lily.'

To which she only answered, 'We shall see knowing that in his present
state of mind he would only set down the hopeful tokens that she
perceived either to hypocrisy on the girl's side, or weakness on hers.

Dolores had indeed gone with the others rather because she could not
bear remaining to see her uncle's altered looks than because she
expected much pleasure.  And she had the satisfaction of sitting by
Mysie, and holding her hand, which had become a very great comfort in
her forlorn state--so great that she forebore to hurt her cousin's
feelings by discoursing of the dissolving views she had seen at a
London party.  Also she exacted a promise that this station should
always be hers.

Mysie, on her side, was in some of the difficulties of a popular
character, for Fly felt herself deserted, and attacked her on the first
opportunity.

'What does make you always go after Dolly instead of me, Mysie?  Do you
like her so much better?'

'Oh no! but you have them all, and she has nobody.'

'Well, but she has been so horridly naughty, hasn't she?'

'I don't think she meant it.'

'One never does.  At least, I'm sure I don't--and mamma always says it
is nonsense to say that.'

'I'm not sure whether it is always,' said Mysie, thoughtfully, 'for
sometimes one does worse than one knows.  Once I made a mouse-trap of a
beautiful large sheet of bluey paper, and it turned out to be an order
come down to papa.  Mamma and Alethea gummed it up as well as ever they
could again, but all the officers had to know what had happened to it.'

'And were you punished?'

'I was not allowed to go into papa's room without one of the elder ones
till after my next birthday, but that wasn't so bad as papa's being so
vexed, and everybody knowing it; and Major Denny would talk about mice
and mouse-traps every time he saw me till I quite hated my name.'

'And I'm sure you didn't mean to cut up an important paper.'

'No; but I did do a little wrong, for we had no leave to take anything
not quite in the waste basket, and this had been blown off the table,
and was on the floor outside.  They didn't punish me so much I think
because of that.  Papa said it was partly his own fault for not
securing it when he was called off.  You see little wrongs that one
knows turn out great wrongs that one would never think of, and that is
so very dreadful, and makes me so very sorry for Dolores.'

'I didn't think you would like a cross, naughty girl like that more
than your own Fly.'

'No, no! Fly, don't say that.  I don't really like her half so well,
you know, only if you would help me to be kind to her.'

'I am sure my mother wouldn't wish me to have anything to do with her.
I don't think she would have let me come here if she had known what
sort of girl she is.'

'But your papa knew when he left you--'

'Oh, papa! yes; but he can never see anything amiss in a Mohun; I heard
her say so.  And he wants me to be friends with you; dear, darling
friends like him and your Uncle Claude, Mysie, so you must be, and not
be always after that Dolores.'

'I want to be friends with both.  One can have two friends.'

'No! no! no! not two best friends.  And you are my best friend, Mysie,
ever so much better than Alberta Fitzhugh, if only you'll come always
to me this little time when I'm here, and sit by me instead of that
Dolly.'

'I do love you very much, Fly.'

'And you'll sit by me at the penny reading to-night?'

'I promised Dolly.  But she may sit on the other side.'

'No,' said Phyllis, with jealous perverseness.  'I don't care if that
Dolly is to be on the other side, you'll talk to nobody but her! Now,
Mysie, I had been writing to ask daddy to let you come home with me,
you yourself, to the Butterfly's Ball, but if you won't sit by me, you
may stay with your dear Dolores.'

'Oh, Fly! When you know I promised, and there is the other side.'

But Fly had been courted enough by all the cousinhood to have become
exacting and displeased at having any rival to the honour of her hand--
so she pouted and said, 'I don't care about it, if you have her.  I
shall sit between Val and Jasper.'

One must be thirteen, with a dash of the sentiment of a budding
friendship, to enter into all that 'sitting by' involves; and in
Mysie's case, here was her compassionate promise standing not only
between her and the avowed preference of one so charming as Fly, but
possibly depriving her of the chances of the wonders of the Butterfly's
Ball.  No wonder that disconsolate tears came into her eyes as she
uttered another pleading, 'Oh, Fly, how can you?'

'You must choose,' said the offended young lady; 'you can't have us
both.'

To which argument she stuck, being offended as well as scandalized at
being set aside for such a culprit as Dolores, whose misdemeanours and
discourtesy were equally shocking to her imagination.

Mysie could confide her troubles to no one, for she was aware that
caring about sitting together was treated by the elders as egregious
folly; but a promise was a promise with her, and she held staunchly to
her purpose, though between Dolores and Miss Vincent she lost all those
delightful asides which enhanced the charms of the amusing parts of the
penny reading and beguiled the duller ones--of which there were many,
since it was more concert than penny reading, people being rather shy
of committing themselves to reading--Hal, Mr.  Pollock and the
schoolmaster being the only volunteers in that line.

Gillian had, sorely against the grain, to play a duet with Constance
Hacket.  The two young ladies had met one another with freezing
civility in the classroom, and to those who understood matters, the
stiffness of their necks and shoulders, as they sat at the piano, spoke
unutterable things.  But there had never been any real liking between
Constance and the younger Merrifields, and the mother did not trouble
herself much about this, knowing that the vexation of the elder sister,
about whom she did care, would pass off with friendly intercourse.

Fly's displeasure did not last long, for Mysie bad more attractions for
her than any one else, and she was a good-humoured creature.  There was
a joyous Twelfth-Night, with home-made cake and home-characters,
prepared by mamma and Gillian, and followed up by games, in which
Dolores had a share, promoted by her aunt, who was very anxious to keep
her from feeling set apart from every one; but this was difficult to
manage, as she was so generally disliked, that even Gillian was only
good-natured to her in accordance with her mother's desire that she
should not be treated as 'out of the pale of humanity.'  Mysie alone
sought her out and brought her forward with any real earnestness, and
good little Mysie had a somewhat difficult part to play between
kindness to her and Fly's occasional little jealous tiffs and decided
disapproval.  Mysie never thought, however, about the situation or its
difficulties, she simply followed the moment's call of kindness to
Dolores, and, when it was possible, followed her own inclinations, and
enjoyed Fly's lively society.

And Dolores was certainly softening and improving.  A word to Mrs.
Halfpenny had secured the two girls being permitted to say their
prayers together in Dolores's room unmolested; and what was a reality
to a contemporary became less and less to Dolores a mere lesson imposed
by the authority of an elder.  That link between religious instruction
and daily life, which is all important, yet so difficult to find, was
being gradually put into Dolores's hands by her little cousin-friend.
Lady Merrifield hoped and guessed it might be thus, from the questions
that Mysie asked her at times, and from the quickened attention Dolores
showed to her religious lessons, and her less dull and indifferent air
at church.

It could not be said that she was different with the others.  She was
depressed, and wanted spirits for enjoyment, nor would active romping
diversions ever be pleasant to her.  She had not the nature for them,
and was not young enough to learn to like them.  It could not but seem
foolish to her to race about as a Croat or a savage, and she only
beheld with wonder Gillian's genuine delight in games not merely
entered into for the sake of the little ones.  But there was a strong
devotion growing up in her to her aunt and to Mysie, and what they
asked of her she did--even when on a wet day her aunt condemned her to
learn battledore and shuttle-cock of Gillian, who was equally to be
pitied for the awkwardness of her pupil and the banter of her brothers,
while Dolly picked up her shuttlecock and tossed it off with grim
determination, as if doing penance for this dismal half hour.  She
managed better in the games where ready sharpness of intellect or
memory was wanted, and she liked these, and would have liked them still
better if Uncle Reginald had not always looked astonished if she
laughed.

She did her part, too, in the little play, being one of the chorus of
the maidens who 'make a vow to make a row.'  Lady Merrifield had,
according to the general request, saved disputes by casting the parts,
Gillian being the sage old woman who brought the damsels to reason.
Fly, the prime mover of the tumult, and Mysie, her confidante, while
Val and Dolly made up the mob.  A little manipulation of skirts,
tennis-aprons, ribbons, and caps made very nice peasant costumes.  Hal
was the self-important Bailli, and Jasper the drummer, the part of
gens-d'armes being all that Wilfred and Fergus could be trusted with.

Lord Rotherwood came back, and his little daughter's ecstacy was goodly
to see, as she danced about her daddy, almost bursting with the secret
of what he was to see after dinner, and showing herself so brilliantly
well and happy that he congratulated himself upon her mother's
satisfaction.

While the elders were at dinner, Gillian, with Miss Vincent's help,
finished off the arrangements.  There were no outsiders, except the
Vicar and Mr.  Pollock who had been asked to dinner, for Lady
Merrifield said she never liked to make her children an exhibition.

'You are an old-fashioned Lily,' said her cousin, 'and happily not
concerned with popularity.  It is a fine thing to be able to consult
one's children's absolute best.'

The performance went off beautifully--at least so thought both actors
and spectators.  The dignity of the Bailli and the meddling of the
drummer were alike delightful; Fly was charmingly arch and mutinous;
Mysie very straightforward; and the least successful personation was
that of Gillian, who had a fit of stage-fright, forgot sentences, and
whirred her spinning-wheel nervously, all the worse for being scolded
by her brothers behind the scenes, and assured that she was making a
mull of the whole affair.  And she had been so spirited at the
rehearsals, but she was at a self-conscious age, and could not forget
the four spectators.  Very little was required of Dolores, but that
little she did simply and well, and Lord Rotherwood, after watching her
all the evening, observed to Lady Merrifield, 'I should say your
difficulties were diminishing, are they not?  The thunder-cloud seems
to be a little lightened.'

'I am so glad you think so, Rotherwood.  I feel sure that all this
distress has drawn her nearer to us, only Regie won't believe it.'

'Regie is prejudiced.'

'Is he?  I thought him specially fond of Maurice's child, and that this
was revulsion of feeling; but what I am afraid of is, that he will
never believe in her or like her again, whatever she may be, and she is
really fond of him.'

'Yes, Reginald is not over disposed to believe in any woman's truth--
outside his own family and sisters.  Poor fellow! I can't say he was
well used.'

'What?  I suppose be has bad his romance like other people--his little
episode, as my husband calls it.'

'Yes; and I am afraid we were accountable for it.  You remember we were
at Harthope Castle for the first two years after I was married, while
Rotherwood was brought up to the requirements of the Victorian age.

The ---th was quartered at Harfield, within easy distance, and a
splendid looking fellow like Regie was invaluable to Victoria, whenever
she wanted anything to go off well.  Well, in those days I had a ward,
my mother's great niece, Maude Conway.  A pretty winsome creature it
was, and an heiress in a moderate sort of way, and poor old Redge,
after all his little affairs, and he had had his share of them, was
evidently in for it at last.  Victoria thought, as well as myself, it
was the best thing for them both.  He was the sound-hearted, good
fellow to keep her matters straight, and she had enough for comfort
without overweighting the balance.  So they were engaged but unluckily
they had to wait till she was of age, about eight months off, and they
were both ridiculously shy, and would not have the thing known, though
Victoria said it was unwise.  I don't think even Jane suspected it.'

'No; I don't think she could have done so.'

'Well, there was the season, and Victoria was not in condition for
going out, and Maude was all for staying quietly with her; but old Lady
Conway came about--a regular schemer--a woman I never could abide.  She
had married off her own daughters, and wanted her niece to practise on,
that was the fact.  Victoria says she always knew that she, Maude I
mean, was very impressionable and impulsive, and so she wanted to have
her out of harm's way; but one could not prevent her aunt from getting
hold of her and taking her out.  Then people told us of her goings on
with that scamp Clanmacklosky and that sister of his.  Victoria talked
to her by the yard, but she denied it, and we thought it all gossip.
Regie came up for a couple of nights, and she was as sweet on him as
ever, and sent him away thinking it all right; but the end of it was,
she fought off going down to Rotherwood with us, but went to Brighton
with Lady Conway, and the next thing we heard was that she wrote to
throw Reginald over, and she married Clanmacklosky a month after she
was twenty-one! I don't think I ever saw Victoria so cut up, for we had
really liked the girl and thought well of her.  To this hour I believe
it was all that woman's doing, and that poor Maude has supped sorrow.
She has lost all her good looks.'

'And Regie has never got over it?'

'Not so as to believe in a woman again.'

'He used to be rather a joke for susceptibility, and was still a
regular boy when we went out to Gibraltar.  I thought him much graver.'

'Exactly; since that affair his soul has gone into his regiment.  It's
a wife to him, and luckily he got his promotion in time, so as not to
be shelved.'

'I suppose it was really an escape.'

'I don't know--she would have done very well in his hands.  She is the
sort of woman to be as you make her, and even now is a world too good
for Clan.  Victoria can never be quite cordial with her, but I can't
see the poor harassed thing without thinking what a sweet creature she
once was, and wishing I'd had the sense to look after her better.  But
what I came here for, Lily, was to say you must let me have that Mysie
of yours, since you won't come yourself to this concern of ours.  I'm
afraid you won't think much good has come of us, but we couldn't do the
Country Mouse much harm in a fortnight; and you know it is the wish of
my heart that my lonely Fly should grow up on such terms with your
flock as Florence and I did with you all.'

He pleaded quite piteously, and he was backed up by a letter from his
wife, very grateful for her little Phyllis's happy visit, reiterating
the invitation to Lady Merrifield, and begging that if she still could
not come herself, she would at least send Jasper and Mysie for the
Butterfly's Ball.  Mysie's fancy dress would be ready for her, only
waiting for the final touches after it was tried on.  Lady Florence
Devereux, too, was near at hand, and wrote to promise to look after
Mysie.

There was no refusing after this.  Lady Florence was not far from being
like a sister to her cousins.  She had tended her mother's old age, and
had subsequently settled down into the lady of all work of Rotherwood
parish.  Lady Merrifield had much confidence in her, and indeed all she
saw of Fly gave her a great respect for Lady Rotherwood's management of
her child.  Harry was going to his uncle's at Beechcroft for some
shooting, and would bring Mysie home when Jasper went back to school.

So Gillian was called to her mother's room to be told first of the
arrangement, which certainly in some aspects was rather hard on her.

'I could not help it, my dear,' said Lady Merrifield, 'without
absolutely asking for an invitation for you.'

'No, mamma; and it is Mysie who is Fly's friend, being the same age and
all.  It is quite right, and I understand it.'

'My dear, I am so glad I can do such a thing as this.  If there were
small jealousies among you, I could not venture on letting you be set
aside, for I know the disappointment was quite as great to you as to
Mysie, when we gave it up.'

'But she was better about it than I,' said Gillian; 'mamma, your
trusting me in that way is better than a dozen balls.  Besides, I know
I should hate being there without you; I'm a great old thing, as Jasper
says, neither fish nor fowl, you know, not come out, and not a little
girl in the schoolroom, and it would be very horrid going to a grand
place like that on one's own account.'

'That's right, Gillyflower. 'Tis very wholesome to discover the
sourness of the grapes.  And as I think grandmamma is really coming, I
shall want you at home, and to look after Dolores.'

'That's the worst of it, mamma; I shall never get on with her as Mysie
does.'

'We must do our best, for I do think really the poor child is
improving.'

'Lessons will begin again! That's one comfort,' said Gillian, rather
quaintly, thinking of the length of time that Dolores would thus be off
her hands.

'And now call Mysie.  I must speak to her.'

As for Mysie, she was in a state of rapture.  She knew her bliss before
her mother had communicated it, for Lord Rotherwood could not refrain
from telling his daughter that consent was gained, and Fly darted
headlong to embrace Mysie, dance round her and rejoice.  The boys
declared that Mysie at once sprang into the air like a chamois, and
that her head touched the ceiling, but this is believed to be a figment
of Jasper's.

It was only on the summons to her mother's room that Mysie discovered
that Gillian was not going with her.  It dimmed the lustre of her
delight for a little while, 'Oh, Gill, aren't you very sorry?  You
ought to have had the first turn.'

'Never mind, Mysie, you are Fly's friend,'--and the two sisters' looks
at one another at that moment were a real pleasure to their mother.

Mysie was of a less shy nature than Gillian, as well as at a less
awkward age, so that the visiting without her mother was less
formidable, and she rushed about wild with delight; but Dolores was
very disconsolate.

'Every one I care for goes away and changes,' she said in her
melancholy little sentiment.

'But it's only for a fortnight, Dolly, I don't think I could change so
fast.'

'Oh yes, you will, among all those swells.  You like Fly ever so much
better than me.'

Mysie looked grieved and puzzled, but then exclaimed, in the tone of a
discovery, 'There are different sorts of likings, Dolly, don't you see.
I do love Fly very much, but you know you are like a sort of almost
twin sister to me.  I like her best, but I care about you most!'

With which curious distinction Dolores had to put up.




CHAPTER XIX.

A SADDER AND A WISER AUTHORESS.



Colonel Mohun took Wilfred to his school, which began its term earlier
than did Jasper's, and Silver-ton was wonderfully quiet.  The elder
Mrs.  Merrifield was not to come for nearly a week, so that it would
have been possible for her daughter-in-law to go to the Rotherwood
festivities without interfering with her visit, but this no one except
Gillian and Mysie knew, and they kept the secret well.

The departure of the boys was a great relief to Dolores.  Her aunt did
not rank her with Valetta and Fergus, but let her consort with herself
and Gillian, and this suited her much better.  Even Gillian allowed
that she was ever so much nicer when there was no one to tease her.  It
was true that Jasper certainly, and perhaps Wilfred, would not have
molested her if she had not offended the latter, and offered herself as
fair game; but Gillian, who had to forestall and prevent their pranks,
could not feel their absence quite the privation her sisterly spirit
usually did!

Valetta and Fergus were harmless without them, but they were forlorn,
being so much used to having their sports led by their two seniors that
they hardly knew what to do without them, and the entreaty, or rather
the whine, 'I want something to do,' was heard unusually often.  This
led to Gillian's being often called off to attend to them during the
course of wet days that ensued, and thus Dolores was a good deal alone
with her aunt, who was superintending her knitting a pair of silk
stockings to send out to her father, it was hoped in time for his next
birthday.

At the first proposal, Dolores looked dull and unwilling, and at last
she squeezed out, 'I don't think father will ever want me to do
anything for him again.'

'My poor child, do you think a father does not forgive and love all the
more one who is in deep sorrow for a fault?'

'I don't think my letter seemed sorry! I was not half so sorry then as
I am now,' then at a kind word from her aunt her eyes overflowed, and
she said, 'No, I wasn't; I didn't know how good you were, or how bad I
was!'

And when Aunt Lily kissed her, she put her arms round the kind neck
that bent down to her, and laid her head against it, as if it was quite
a rest to feel that love.  Her aunt encouraged her to write again to
her father, and to try to express something of her grief and entreaty
for forgiveness, and she was somewhat cheered after this; as though
something of the load on her mind was removed.  One day she brought
down all the books in her room and said, 'Please, Aunt Lily, look at
them, and let them be with the rest in the schoolroom, I want to be
just like the others.'

Lady Merrifield was much pleased with this surrender.  Some of the
books were really well worth having and reading, indeed, the best of
them she knew, but there were eight or ten which she suspected of being
what Mysie called silly stories, and she kept them back to look over.
She had been trying in this quiet interval to get Dolly to read
something besides mere childish stories for recreation; and when she
saw how well worn the story books were, and how untouched the 'easy
history,' and the books about animals and foreign countries were, she
saw why so clever a girl as Dolores seemed so stupid about everything
she had not learnt as a lesson, and entirely ignorant of English
poetry.

Lady Merrifield read to her and Gillian in the evenings, and how they
did enjoy it, and bemoaned the coming of grandmamma, to spoil their
snugness and occupy 'mamma.' For Dolores began so to call Lady
Merrifield.  She had never so termed her own mother, and it seemed to
her that with the words 'Aunt Lily' she put away all sorts of foolish,
sinister feelings.

'Mrs.  Merrifield was a wonderful old lady, brisk of mind and body,
though of great age.  She had been spending Christmas with her eldest
son, the Admiral, at Stokesley, and was going to take on her way the
daughter-in-law, of whom she knew but little in comparison; and with
her she brought the granddaughter, Elizabeth Merrifield, who--since her
own daughter had died--generally lived with her in London, to take care
of her.

'It will be all company and horrid, and nobody will be allowed to make
a noise!' sighed Valetta to Fergus, as the waggonette, well shut up,
drove to the door.

'There's cousin Bessie,' said Fergus.

'Oh, cousin Bessie is thirty-four, and that is as bad as being as old
as grandmamma!'

And they hung back while the old lady was helped out, and brought
across the hall into the warm drawing-room before her fur cloak was
taken off.  There was a quiet little person with her, and Val
whispered, 'She'll be just like Aunt Jane.'

But the eyes that Bessie turned on her cousins were not at an like Aunt
Jane's little searching black ones.  They were of a dark shade of grey,
and had a wonderful softness and sweetness in them.  Gillian knew her a
little already, but very little, for there had always been the elder
sisters at their former short meetings.  Mamma lamented that there
should be so few grandchildren at home to be shown, though, as she
said,  'the full number might have been too noisy.'

Grandmamma shook her head.  'I like the house full,' she said, 'I'm all
right, but it is a pity to see the nest emptied, like Stokesley, now.
Nobody left at home but Susan and little Sally! Make the most of them
while you have them about you!'

The old lady was quite delighted to find Primrose so nearly a baby, and
to have one grandchild still quite as small or smaller than some of her
great grandchildren whom she had never seen.  Her great pleasure,
however, soon proved to be in talking about her son Jasper, and hearing
all his wife could tell her about his life in India; and as Lady
Merrifield liked no other subject so well, they were very happy
together, and quite absorbed.

Meanwhile Bessie made herself a companion to Gillian and Dolores, and
though so much older, seemed to consider herself as a girl like them.
Then, living for the most part in town, she could talk about London
matters to Dolly, and this was a great treat, while yet she had country
tastes enough to suit Gillian, and was not in the least afraid of a
long walk to the fir plantations to pick up Weymouth pine cones, and
the still more precious pinaster ones.

For the first time Gillian began to see Dolores as Uncle Reginald used
to know her, free from that heavy mist of sullen dislike to everything
and everybody.  It seemed to bring them together, but, in spite of
Bessie's charms, they both continually missed Mysie, out of doors and
in, in schoolroom and drawing-room, and, above all, in Dolly's bedroom.
She seemed to be, as Gillian told Bessie, 'a sort of family cement,
holding the two ends, big and little, together;' and Bessie responded
that her elder sister Susan was one of that sort.

The evenings now were quite unlike the usual ones.  Dinner was late,
and the two girls came down to it.  Afterwards the young ones sat round
the fire in the hall, where Bessie, who was a wonderful story-teller,
kept Fergus and Valetta quiet and delighted, either with invented tales
or histories of the feats of her own brothers and sisters, who were so
much older than their Silverton first cousins as to be like an elder
generation.

When the two young ones were gone to bed, the others came into the
drawing-room, where mamma and grandmamma were to be found, either going
over papa's letters, or else Mrs.  Merrifield talking about her
Stokesley grandchildren, the same whose pranks Bessie had just been
telling, so that it was not easy to believe in Sam, a captain in the
navy.  Harry and John farming in Canada, David working as a clergy-man
in the Black Country, George in.  a government office, Anne a
clergyman's wife, and mother to the great grandchildren who were always
being compared to Primrose, Susan keeping her father's house, and
Sarah, though as old as Alethea, still treated as the youngest--the
child of the family.

The bits of conversation came to the girls as they sat over their work,
and Bessie would join in, and tell interesting things, till she saw
that grandmamma was ready for her nap, and then one or other gave a
little music, during which Dolly's bed-time generally came.

'You can't think how grateful I am to you for helping to brighten up
that poor child in a wholesome way!' said Lady Merrifield to Bessie,
under cover of Gillian's performance.

'One can't help being very sorry for her,' said Elizabeth, who knew
what was hanging over Dolly.

'Yes, it is a terrible punishment, especially as she has a certain
affection for her step-uncle, or whatever he should be called, for her
mother's sake.  It really was a perplexed situation.'

'But why did she not consult you?'

'Do you know, I think I have found out.  She held aloof from us all,
and treated us--especially me--as if we were her natural enemies, and I
never could guess what was the reason till the other day; she
voluntarily gave me up all her books to be looked over and put into the
common stock, which you saw in the schoolroom.'

'You look over all the children's books?'

'Yes.  While we were wandering, they did not get enough to make it a
very arduous task, and now I find that they want weeding.  If children
read nothing but a multitude of stories rather beneath their capacity,
they are likely never to exert themselves to anything beyond novel
reading.'

'That is quite true, I believe.'

'Well, among this literature of Dolly's I found no less than four
stories based on the cruelty and injustice suffered by orphans from
their aunts.  The wicked step-mothers are gone out, and the barbarous
aunts are come in.  It is the stock subject.  I really think it is
cruel, considering that there are many children who have to be adopted
into uncles' families, to add to their distress and terror, by raising
this prejudice.  Just look at this one'--taking up Dolly's favourite,
'Clare; or No Home'--'it is not at all badly written, which makes it
all the worse.'

'Oh, Aunt Lilias,' cried Bessie, whose colour had been rising all this
time.  'How shall I tell you? I wrote it!'

'You! I never guessed you did anything in that line.'

'We don't talk about it.  My father knows, and so does grandmamma, in a
way; but I never bring it before her if I can help it, for she does not
half like the notion.  But, indeed, they aren't all as bad as that! I
know now there is a great deal of silly imitation in it; but I never
thought of doing harm in this way.  It is a punishment for
thoughtlessness,' cried poor Bessie, reddening desperately, and with
tears in her eyes.

'My dear, I am so sorry I said it! If I bad not one of these aunts, I
should think it a very effective story.'

'I'm afraid that's so much the worse!  Let me tell you about it, Aunt
Lilias.  At home, they always laughed at me for my turn for
dismalities.'

'I believe one always has such a turn when one is young.'

'Well, when I went to live with grandmamma, it was very different from
the houseful at home, I had so much time on my hands, and I took to
dreaming and writing because I could not help it, and all my stories
were fearfully doleful.  I did not think of publishing them for ever so
long, but at last when David terribly wanted some money for his mission
church, I thought I would try, and this Clare was about the best.  They
took it, and gave me five pounds for it, and I was so pleased and never
thought of its doing harm, and now I don't know how much more mischief
it may have done!'

'You only thought of piling up the agony! But don't be unhappy about
it.  You don't know how many aunts it may have warned.'

'I'm afraid aunts are not so impressionable as nieces.  And, indeed,
among ourselves story-books seemed quite outside from life, we never
thought of getting any ideas from them any more than from Bluebeard.'

'So it has been with some of mine, while, on the other hand, Dolores
seemed to Mysie an interesting story-book heroine--which indeed she is,
rather too much so.  But you have not stood still with Clare.'

'No, I hope I have grown rather more sensible.  David set me to do
stories for his lads, and, as he is dreadfully critical, it was very
improving.'

'Did you write 'Kate's Jewel'? That is delightful.  Aunt Jane gave it
to Val this Christmas, and all of us have enjoyed it! We shall be quite
proud of it--that is--may I tell the children?'

'Oh, aunt, you are very good to try to make me forget that miserable
Clare.  I wonder whether it will do any good to tell Dolores all about
it.  Only I can't get at all the other girls I may have hurt.'

'Nay, Bessie, I think it most likely that Dolores would have been an
uncomfortable damsel, even if Clare had remained in your brain.  There
were other causes, at any rate, here are three more persecuted nieces
in her library.  Besides, as you observed, everybody does not go to
story-books for views of human nature, and happily, also, homeless
children are commoner in books than out of them, so I don't think the
damage can be very extensive.'

'One such case is quite enough! Indeed, it is a great lesson to think
whether what one writes can give any wrong notion.'

'I believe one always does begin with imitation.'

'Yes, it is extraordinary how little originality there is in the world.
In the literature of my time, everybody had small hands and high
foreheads, the girls wanted to do great things, and did, or did not do,
little ones, and the boys all took first classes, and the fashion was
to have violet eyes, so dark you could not tell their colour, and
golden hair.'

'Whereas now the hair is apt to be bronze, whatever that may be like.'

'And all the dresses, and all the complexions, and all the lace, and
all the roses, are creamy.  Bessie, I hope you don't deal in
creaminess!'

'I'm afraid skim milk is more like me, and that you would say I had
taken to the goody line.  I never thought of the responsibility then,
only when I wrote for David's classes.'

'It is a responsibility, I suppose, in the way in which every word one
speaks and every letter one writes is so.  And now--here is Gillian
finishing her piece.  How far is it a secret, my dear.'

'It need not be so here, Aunt Lilias.  Only my people are rather old-
fashioned, you know, and are inclined to think it rather shocking of
me, so it ought not to go beyond the family, and especially don't  'let
her,' indicating her grandmother, 'hear about it.  She knows I do such
things--it would not be honest not to tell her--but it goes against the
grain, and she has never heard one word of it all.'

It appeared that Bessie daily read the psalms and lessons to
grandmamma, followed up by a sermon.  Then, with her wonderful eyes,
Mrs.  Merrifield read the newspaper from end to end, which lasted her
till luncheon, then came a drive in the brougham, followed by a rest in
her own room, dinner, and then Bessie read her to sleep with a book of
travels or biography, of the old book-club class of her youth.  Her
principles were against novels, and the tale she viewed as only fit for
children.

Lady Merrifield could not help thinking what a dull life it must be for
Bessie, a woman full of natural gifts and of great powers of enjoyment,
accustomed to a country home and a large family, and she said something
of the kind.  'I did not like it at first,' said Bessie, 'but I have
plenty of occupations now, besides all these companions that I've made
for myself, or that came to me, for I think they come of themselves.'

'But what time have you to yourself?'

'Grandmamma does not want me till half-past ten in the morning, except
for a little visit.  And she does not mind my writing letters while she
is reading the paper, provided I am ready to answer anything
remarkable.  I am quite the family newsmonger! Then there's always from
four to half-past six when I can go out if I like.  There's a dear old
governess of ours living not far off, and we have nice little
expeditions together.  And you know it is nice to be at the family
headquarters in London, and have every one dropping in.'

'Oh dear! how good you are to like going on like that,' said Gillian,
who had come up while this was passing; 'I should eat my heart out; you
must be made up of contentment.'

Elizabeth held up her hand in warning lest her grandmother should be
wakened, but she laughed and said, 'My brothers would tell you I used
to be Pipy Bet.  But that dear old governess.  Miss Fosbrook, was the
making of me, and taught me how to be jolly like Mark Tapley among the
rattlesnakes,' she finished, looking drolly up to Gillian.

'And, Gill, you don't know what Bessie has made her companions instead
of the rattlesnakes,' said Lady Merrifield.  'What do you think of
"Kate's Jewel?"'

Gillian's astonishment and rapture actually woke grandmamma; not that
she made much noise, but there was a disturbing force about her
excitement; and the subject had to be abandoned.

As the great secret might be shared with Dolores, though not with the
younger ones, whose discretion could not be depended upon, Gillian
could enter upon it the more freely, though she was rather disappointed
that an author was not such an extraordinary sight to Dolly as to
herself.  But it was charming to both that Bessie let them look at the
proofs of the story she was publishing in a magazine; and allowed them
as well as mamma, to read the manuscript of the tale, romance, or
novel, whichever it was to be called, on which she wished for her
aunt's opinion.

Bessie took care, when complying with the girls' entreaty, that she
would tell them all she had written; to observe that, she thought
'Clare' a very foolish book indeed, and that she wished heartily she
had never written it.  Gillian asked why she had done it?

'Oh,' said Dolores, 'things aren't interesting unless something horrid
happens, or some one is frightened, or very miserable.'

'I like things best just and exactly as they really are--or were,' said
Gillian.

'The question between sensation and character,' said Bessie to her
aunt.  'I suppose that, on the whole, it is the few who are palpably
affected by the mass of fiction in the world; but that it is needful to
take good care that those few gather at least no harm from one's work--
to be faithful in it, in fact, like other things.'

And there was no doubt that Bessie had been faithful in her work ever
since she had realized her vocation.  Her lending library books,
written with a purpose, were excellent, and were already so much valued
by Miss Hacket, that Gillian thought how once she should have felt it a
privation not to be allowed to tell her whence they came; but to her
surprise on the Sunday, instead of the constraint with which of late
she had been treated at tea-time, the eager inquiry was made whether
this was really the authoress, Miss Merrifield?

Secrets are not kept as well as people think.  The Hackets' married
sister was a neighbour of Bessie's married sister, and through these
ladies it had just come round, not only who was the author of
'Charlie's Whistle,' etc., but that she wrote in the ---- Magazine, and
was in the neighbourhood.

All offences seemed to be forgotten in the burning desire for an
introduction to this marvel of success.  Constance had made the most of
her opportunities in gazing at church; but if she called, would she be
introduced?

'Of course,' said Gillian, 'if my cousin is in the room.'  She spoke
rather coldly and gravely, and Miss Hacket exclaimed--

'I know we have been a little remiss, my dear, I hope Lady Merrifield
was not offended.'

'Mamma is never offended,' said Gillian--'but, I do think, and so would
she and all of us, that if Constance comes, she ought to treat Dolores
Mohun--as--as usual.'

The two sisters were silent, perhaps from sheer amazement at this
outbreak of Gillian's, who had never seemed particularly fond of her
cousin.  Gillian was quite as much surprised at herself, but something
seemed to drive her on, with flaming cheeks.  'Dolores is half broken-
hearted about it all.  She did not thoroughly know how wrong it was;
and it does make her miserable that the one who went along with her in
it should turn against her, and cut her and all.'

'Connie never meant to keep it up, I'm sure,' said Miss Hacket; 'but
she was very much hurt.'

'So was Dolly,' said Gillian.

'Is she so fond of me?' said Constance, in a softened tone.

'She was,' replied Gillian.

'I'm sure,' said Miss Hacket, 'our only wish is to forget and forgive
as Christians.  Lady Merrifield has behaved most handsomely, and it is
our most earnest wish that this unfortunate transaction should be
forgotten.'

'And I'm sure I'm willing to overlook it all,' said Constance.  'One
must have scrapes, you know; but friendship will triumph over all.'

Gillian did not exactly wish to unravel this fine sentiment, and was
glad that the little G.F.S. maid came in with the tea.

Lady Merrifield was a good deal diverted with Gillian's report, and
invited the two sisters to luncheon on the plea of their slight
acquaintance with Anne--otherwise Mrs. Daventry--with a hint in the
note not to compliment Mrs. Merrifield on Elizabeth's production.

Then Dolores had to be prepared to receive any advance from Constance.
She looked disgusted at first, and then, when she heard that Gillian
had spoken her mind, said, 'I can't think why you should care.'

'Of course I care, to have Constance behaving so ill to one of us.'

'Do you think me one of you, Gillian?'

'Who, what else are you?'

And Dolores held up her face for a kiss, a heartier one than had ever
passed between the cousins.  There was no kiss between the quondam
friends, but they shook hands with perfect civility, and no stranger
would have guessed their former or their present terms from their
manner.  In fact, Constance was perfectly absorbed in the contemplation
of the successful authoress, the object of her envy and veneration, and
only wanted to forget all the unpleasantness connected with the dark
head on the opposite side of the table.

'Oh Miss Merrifield,' she asked, in an interval afterwards, when hats
were being put on, 'bow do you make them take your things?'

'I don't know,' said Bessie, smiling.  'I take all the pains I can, and
try to make them useful.'

'Useful, but that's so dull--and the critics always laugh at things
with a purpose.'

'But I don't think that is a reason for not trying to do good, even in
this very small and uncertain way.  Indeed,' she added, earnestly.  'I
have no right to speak, for I have made great mistakes; but I wanted to
tell you that the one thing I did get published, which was not written
conscientiously--as I may say--but only to work out a silly,
sentimental fancy, has brought me pain and punishment by the harm I
know I did.'

This was a very new idea to Constance, and she actually carried it away
with her.  The visit had restored the usual terms of intercourse with
the Hackets, though there was no resumption of intimacy such as there
had been, between Constance and Dolores.  It had, however, done much to
make the latter feel that the others considered themselves one with
them, and there was something that drew them together in the universal
missing of Mysie, and eagerness for her letters.

These were, however, rather disappointing.  Mysie had not a genius for
correspondence, and dealt in very bare facts.  There was an enclosure
which made Lady Merrifield somewhat anxious:


'My Dear Mamma,
'This is for you all by yourself.  I have been in sad mischief, for I
broke the conservatory and a palm-tree with my umbrella; and I did
still worse, for I broke my promise and told all about what you told me
never to.  I will tell you all when I come home, and I hope you will
forgive me.  I wish I was at home.  It is very horrid when they say one
is good and one knows one is not; but I am very happy, and Lord
Rotherwood is nicer than ever, and so is Fly.
'I am your affectionate and penitent and dutiful little daughter,
                                    'MARIA MILLICENT MERRIFIELD.'


With all mamma's intuitive knowledge of her little daughter's mind and
forms of expression, she was puzzled by this note and the various
fractures it described.  She obeyed its injunctions of secrecy, even
with regard to Gillian and Bessie, though she could not help wishing
that the latter could have seen and judged of her Mysie.

Grandmamma was somewhat disappointed to have missed her eldest
grandson, but she was obliged to leave Silverton two days before his
return with his little sister.  She had certainly escaped the full
tumult of the entire household, but Bessie observed that she suspected
that it might have been preferred to the general quiescence.

In spite of all the regrets that Bessie's more coeval cousins, Alethea
and Phyllis were not at home, she and her aunt each felt that a new
friendship had been made, and that they understood each other, and
Bessie had uttered her resolution henceforth always to think of the
impression for good or evil produced on the readers, as well as of the
effectiveness of her story.  'Little did I suppose that 'Clare' would
add to any one's difficulties,' she said, 'still less to yours, Aunt
Lilias.'




CHAPTER XX.

CONFESSIONS OF A COUNTRY MOUSE.



Here were the travellers at home again, and Mysie clinging to her
mother, with, 'Oh, Mamma!' and a look of perfect rest.  They arrived at
the same time as Dolores had come, so late that Mysie was tired out,
and only half awake.  She was consigned to Mrs. Halfpenny after her
first kiss, but as she passed along the corridor, a door was thrown
back, and a white figure sprang upon her.  'Oh, Mysie! Mysie!' and in
spite of the nurse's chidings, held her fast in an embrace of delight.
Dolores had been lying awake watching for her, and implored permission
at least to look on while she was going to bed!

Harry meanwhile related his experiences to his mother and Gillian over
the supper-table.  The Butterfly's Ball had been a great success.  He
had never seen anything prettier in his life.  Plants and lights had
been judiciously disposed so as to make the hall a continuation of the
conservatory, almost a fairy land, and the children in their costumes
had been more like fairies than flesh and blood, pinafore and bread-
and-butter beings.  There was a most perfect tableau at the opening of
the scenery constructed with moss and plants, so as to form a bower,
where the Butterfly and Grasshopper, with their immediate attendants,
welcomed their company, and afterwards formed the first quadrille, Lady
Phyllis, with Mysie and two other little girls staying in the house,
being the butterflies, and Lord Ivinghoe and three more boys of the
same ages, the grasshoppers, in pages' dresses of suitable colours.

'I never thought,' said Harry, 'that our little brown mouse would come
out so pretty or so swell.'

'She wanted to be the dormouse,' said Gillian.

'That was impracticable.  They were all heath butterflies of different
sorts, wings very correctly coloured and dresses to correspond.
Phyllis the ringlet with the blue lining, Mysie, the blue one, little
Lady Alberta, the orange-tip, and the other child the burnet moth.'

'How did Mysie dance?'

'Very fairly, if she had not looked so awfully serious.  The dancing-
mistress, French, of course, had trained them, it was more ballet than
quadrille, and they looked uncommonly pretty.  Uncle William granted
that, though he grumbled at the whole concern as nonsense, and wondered
you should send your nice little girl into it to have her head turned.'

'Do you think she was happy?'

'Oh, yes, of course.  She always is, but she was in prodigious spirits
when we started to come home. Lady Rotherwood said I was to tell you
that no child could be more truthful and conscientious.  Still somehow
she did not look like the swells.  Except that once, when she was got
up regardless of expense for the ball, she always had the country mouse
look about her.  She hadn't--'

'The 'Jenny Say Caw,' as Macrae calls it?' said his mother.  'Well, I
can endure that! You need not look so disgusted, Gill.  You didn't hear
of her getting into any scrape, did you?'

'No,' said Hal.  'Stay, I believe she did break some glass or other,
and blurted out her confession in full assembly, but I was over at
Beechcroft, and I am happy to say I didn't see her.'

Mysie's tap came early to her mother's door the next morning, and it
was in the midst of her toilette that Lady Merrifield was called on to
hear the confession that had been weighing on the little girl's mind.

'I was too sleepy to tell you last night, mamma, but I did want to do
so.'

'Well, then, my dear, begin at the beginning, for I could not
understand your letter.'

'The beginning was, mamma, that we had just come in from our walk, and
we went out into the schoolroom balcony, because we could see round the
corner who was coming up the drive.  And we began playing at camps,
with umbrellas up as tents.  Ivinghoe, and Alberta, and I.  Ivy was
general, and I was the sentry, with my umbrella shut up, and over my
shoulder.  I was the only one who knew how to present arms.  I heard
something coming, and called out, 'Who goes there?' and Alberta jumped
up in such a hurry that the points other tent--her umbrella, I mean--
scratched my face, and before I could recover arms, over went my
umbrella, perpendicular, straight  smash through the glass of the
conservatory, and we heard it.'

'And what did you do? Of course you told!'

"Oh yes! I jumped up and said, 'I'll go and tell Lady Rotherwood.'  I
knew I must before I got into a fright, and Ivinghoe said I couldn't
then, and he would speak to his mother and make it easy for me, and Ply
says he really meant it; but I thought then that's the way the bad ones
always get the others into concealments and lies.  So I wouldn't listen
a moment, and I ran down, with him after me, saying, 'Hear reason,
Mysie.' And I ran full butt up against some-body--Lord Ormersfield it
was, I found--but I didn't know then.  I only said something about
begging pardon, and dashed on, and opened the door.  I saw a whole lot
of fine people all at five-o'clock tea, but I couldn't stop to get more
frightened, and I went up straight to Lady Rotherwood and said,
'Please, I did it.'  Mamma do you think I ought not?"

'There are such things as fit places and times, my dear.  What did she
say?'

"At first she just said, 'My dear, I cannot attend to you now, run
away;' but then in the midst, a thought seemed to strike her, and she
said, rather frightened, 'Is any one hurt?' and I said, Oh no; only my
umbrella has gone right through the roof of the conservatory, and I
thought I ought to come and tell her directly.  'That was the noise,'
said some of the people, and everybody got up and went to look.  And
there were Fly and Ivy, who had got in some other way, and the umbrella
was sticking right upright in the top of one of those palm-trees with
leaves like screens, and somebody said it was a new development of
fruit.  Lady Rotherwood asked them what they were doing there, and Ivy
said they had come to see what harm was done.  Dear Fly ran up to her
and said,  'We were all at play together, mother; it was not one more
than another;'  but Lady Rotherwood only said, 'That's enough, Phyllis,
I will come to you by-and-by in the schoolroom,' and she would have
sent us away if Cousin Rotherwood himself had not come in just then,
and asked what was the matter.  I heard some of the answers; they were
very odd, mamma.  One was, 'A storm of umbrellas and of untimely
confessions;' and another was, 'Truth in undress.'"

'Oh, my dear? I hope you were fit to be seen?'

'I forgot about that, mamma, I had taken off my ulster, and had my
little scarlet flannel underbody, so as to make a better soldier.'

'Oh!' groaned Lady Merrifield.

'And then that dear, good Fly gave a jump and flew at him, and said,
'Oh, daddy, daddy, it's Mysie, and she has been telling the truth like--
like Frank, or Sir Thomas More, or George Washington, or anybody.' She
really did say so, mamma.'

'I can quite believe it of her, Mysie! And how did Cousin Rotherwood
respond?'

'He sat down upon one of the seats, and took Fly on one knee and me on
the other, though we were big for it--just like papa, you know--and
made us tell him all about it.  Lady Rotherwood got the others out of
the way somehow--I don't know how, for my back was that way, and I
think Ivinghoe went after them, but there was some use in talking to
Cousin Rotherwood; he has got some sense, and knows what one means, as
if he was at the dear, nice playing age, and Ivinghoe was his stupid
old father in a book.'

'Exactly,' said Lady Merrifield, delighted, and longing to laugh.

'But that was the worst of it,' said Mysie, sadly; 'he was so nice that
I said all sorts of things I didn't mean or ought to have said.  I told
him I would pay for the glass if he would only wait till we had helped
Dolores pay for those books that the cheque was for, because the man
came alive again, after her wicked uncle said he was dead, and so
somehow it all came out; how you made up to Miss Constance and couldn't
come to the Butterfly's Ball for want of new dresses.'

'Oh, Mysie, you should not have said that!  I thought you were to be
trusted!'

'Yes, mamma, I know,' said Mysie, meekly.  'I recollected as soon as I
had said it; and told him, and he kissed me and promised he would never
tell anyone, and made Fly promise that she never would.  But I have
been so miserable about it ever since, mamma; I tried to write it in a
letter, but I am afraid you didn't half understand.'

'I only saw that something was on your mind, my dear.  Now that is all
over, I do not so much mind Cousin Rotherwood's knowing, he has always
been so like a brother; but I do hope both he and Fly will keep their
word.  I am more sorry for my little girl's telling than about his
knowing.'

'And Ivinghoe said my running in that way on all the company was worse
than breaking the glass or the palm-tree.  Was it, mamma?'

'Well, you know, Mysie, there is a time for all things, and very likely
it vexed Lady Rotherwood more to be invaded by such a little wild
colt.'

'But not Cousin Rotherwood himself, mamma,' said Mysie, 'for he said I
was quite right, and an honourable little fellow, just like old times.
And so I told Ivy.  And he said in such a way, 'Every one knew what his
father was.' So I told him his father was ten thousand times nicer than
ever he would be if be lived a hundred years, and I could not bear him
if he talked in that wicked, disrespectful way, and Fly kissed me for
it, mamma, and said her daddy was worth a hundred of such a prig as he
was.'

'My dear, I am afraid neither you nor Fly showed your good manners.'

'It was only Ivinghoe, mamma, and I'm sure I don't care what he thinks,
if he could talk of his father in that way.  Isn't it what you call
metallical--no--ironical?'

'Indeed, Mysie, I don't wonder it made you very angry, and I can't be
sorry you showed your indignation.'

'But please, mamma, what ought I to have done about the glass?'

'I don't quite know; I think a very wise little girl might have gone to
Cousin Florence's room and consulted her.  It would have been better
than making an explosion before so many people.  Florence was kind to
you, I hope.'

'Oh yes, mamma, it was almost like being at home in her room; and she
has such a dear little house at the end of the park.'

A good deal more oozed out from Mysie to different auditors at
different times.  By her account everything was delightful, and yet
mamma concluded that all had not absolutely fulfilled the paradisiacal
expectation with which her country mouse had viewed Rotherwood from
afar.  Lady Rotherwood was very kind, and so was the governess, and
Cousin Florence especially.  Cousin Florence's house felt just like a
bit of home.  It really was the dearest little house--and fluffy cat
and kittens, and the sweetest love birds.  It was perfectly delicious
when they drank tea there, but unluckily she was not allowed to go
thither without the governess or Louise, as it was all across the park,
and a bit of village.

And Fly? Oh, Fly was always dear and good and funny; but there was
Alberta to be attended to, and other little girls sometimes, and it was
not like having her here at home; nor was there any making a row in the
galleries, nor playing at anything really jolly, though the great
pillars in the hall seemed made for tying cords to make a spider's web.
It was always company, except when Cousin Rotherwood called them into
his den for a little fun.  But he had gentlemen to entertain most of
the time, and the only day that he could have taken them to see the
farm and the pheasants, Lady Rotherwood said that Phyllis was a little
hoarse and must not get a cold before the ball.

And as to the Butterfly's Ball itself? Imagination had depicted a
splendid realization of the verses, and it was flat to find it merely a
children's fancy ball, no acting at all, only dancing, and most of the
children not attempting any characteristic dress, only with some insect
attached to head or shoulder; nothing approaching to the fun of the
rehearsal at Silverton, as indeed Fly had predicted.  The only attempt
at representation had cost Mysie more trouble than pleasure, for the
training to dance together had been a difficult and wearisome business.
Two of the grass-hoppers had been greatly displeased about it, and
called it a beastly shame, words much shocking gentle Mysie from
aristocratic lips.  One of them had been as sulky, angry, and
impracticable as possible, just like a log, and the other had consoled
himself with all manner of tricks, especially upon the teacher and on
Ivinghoe.  He would skip like a real grasshopper, he made faces that
set all laughing, he tripped Ivinghoe up, he uttered saucy speeches
that Mysie considered too shocking to repeat, but which convulsed every
one with laughter, Fly most especially, and her governess had punished
her for it.  'She would not punish me,' said Mysie, 'though I know I
was just as bad, and I think that was a shame!' At last the practising
had to be carried on without the boys, and yet, when it came to the
point, both the recusants behaved as well and danced as suitably as if
they had submitted to the training like their sisters! And oh! the
dressing, that was worse.

'I did not think I was so stupid,' said Mysie, 'but I heard Louise tell
mademoiselle that I was trop bourgeoise, and mademoiselle answered that
I was plutot petite paysanne, and would never have l'air de
distinction.

'Abominable impertinence!' cried Gillian.

"They thought I did not understand,' said Mysie, 'and I knew it was
fair to tell them, so I said, 'Mais non, car je suis la petite souris
de compagne.'"

'Well done, Mysie!' cried her sister.

'They did jump, and Louise began apologizing in a perfect gabble, and
mademoiselle said I had de l'esprit, but I am sure I did not mean it.'

'But how could they?' exclaimed Gillian.  'I'm sure Mysie looks like a
lady, a gentleman's child--I mean as much as Fly or any one else.'

'I trust you all look like gentlewomen, and are such in refinement and
manners, but there is an air, which comes partly of birth, partly of
breeding, and that none of you, except, perhaps, Alethea, can boast of,
and about which papa and I don't care one rush.'

'Has Fly got it, mamma?' said Valetta.  'She seemed like one of
ourselves.'

'Oh, yes,' put in Dolores.  'It was what made me think her stuck up.  I
should have known her for a swell anywhere.'

'I'm sure Fly has no airs!' exclaimed Val, hotly, and Gillian was ready
to second her; but Lady Merrifield explained.  'The absence of airs is
one ingredient, Val, both in being ladylike, and in the distinction in
which the maid justly perceived our Mouse to be deficient.  Come, you
foolish girls, don't look concerned.  Nobody but the maid would have
ever let Mysie perceive the difference.'

Mysie coloured and answered, 'I don't know; I saw the Fitzhughs look at
me at first as if they did not think I belonged, and Ivinghoe was
always so awfully polite that I thought he was laughing at me.'

'Ivinghoe must be horrid,' broke out Valetta.

'The Fitzhughs said they would knock it out of him at Eton,' returned
Mysie.  'They got very nice after the first day, and said Fly and I
were twice as jolly fellows as he was.'

It further appeared that Mysie had had plenty of partners at the ball,
and on all occasions her full share of notice, the country neighbours
welcoming her as her mother's daughter, but most of them saying she was
far more like her Aunt Phyllis than her own mother.  The dancing and
excitement so late at night had, however, tired her overmuch, she had
cramp all the remainder of the night, could eat no breakfast the next
day, and was quite miserable.

'I should like to have cried for you, mamma' she said, 'but they were
all quite used to it, and not a bit tired.  However, Cousin Florence
came in, and she was so kind.  She took me to the little west room, and
made me lie on the sofa, and read to me till I went to sleep, and I was
all right after dinner and had a ride on Fly's old pony, Dormouse.  She
has the loveliest new one, all bay, with a black mane and tail, called
Fairy, but Alberta had that.  Oh it was so nice.'

Altogether Lady Merrifield was satisfied that her little girl had not
been spoilt for home by her taste of dissipation, though she did not
hear the further confidence to Dolores in the twilight by the
schoolroom fire.

'Do you know, Dolly, though Fly is such a darling, and they all wanted
to be kind as well as they knew how, I came to understand how horrid
you must have felt when you came among the whole lot of us.'

'But you knew Fly already?'

'That made it better, but I don't like it.  To feel one does not
belong, and to be afraid to open a door for fear it should be
somebody's room, and not quite to know who every one is.  Oh, dear! it
is enough to make anybody cross and stupid.  Oh, I am so glad to be
back again.'

'I'm sure I am glad you are,' and there was a little kissing match.
'You'll always come to my room, won't you? Do you know, when Constance
came to luncheon, I only shook hands, I wouldn't try to kiss her.  Was
that unforgiving?'

'I am sure I couldn't,' said Mysie; 'did she try?'

'I don't think so; I don't think I ever could kiss her; for I never
should have said what was not true without her, and that is what makes
Uncle Reginald so angry still.  He would not kiss me even when he went
away.  Oh, Mysie! that's worse than anything,' and Dolores's face
contracted with tears very near at hand.  'I did always so love Uncle
Regie, and he won't forgive me, and father will be just the same.'

'Poor dear, dear Dolly,' said Mysie, hugging her.

'But you know fathers always forgive, and we will try and make a little
prayer about it, like the Prodigal Son's, you know.'

'I don't blow properly,' said Dolores.

'I think I can say him,' said Mysie, and the little girls sat with
enfolded arms, while Mysie reverently went through the parable.

'But he had been very wicked indeed,' objected Dolores, 'what one calls
dissipated.  Isn't that making too much of such things as girls like us
can do.'

'I don't know,' said Mysie, knitting her young brows; 'you see if we
are as bad as ever we can be while we are at home, it is really and
truly as bad in us ourselves as in shocking people that run away,
because it shows we might have done anything if we had not been taken
care of.  And the poor son felt as if he could not be pardoned, which
is just what you do feel.'

'Aunt Lily forgives me,' said Dolores, wistfully.

'And your father will, I'm sure,' said Mysie, 'though he is yet a great
way off.  And as to Uncle Regie, I do wish something would happen that
you could tell the truth about.  If you had only broken the palm-tree
instead of me, and I didn't do right even about that!  But if any
mischief does happen, or accident, I promise you, Dolly, you shall have
the telling of it, if you have had ever so little to do with it, and
then mamma will write to Uncle Regie that you have proved yourself
truthful.'

Dolores did not seem much consoled by this curious promise, and Mysie's
childishness suddenly gave way to something deeper.  'I suppose,' she
said, 'if one is true, people find it out and trust one.'

'People can't see into one,' said Dolly.

'Mamma says there is a bright side and a dark side from which to look
at everybody and everything,' said Mysie.

'I know that,' said Dolores; 'I looked at the dark side of you all
when I came here.'

'Some day,' said Mysie, 'your bright side will come round to Uncle
Regie, as it has to us, you dear, dear old Dolly.'

'But do you know, Mysie,' whispered Dolores, in her embrace, 'there's
something more dreadful that I'm very much afraid of.  Do you know
there hasn't been a letter from father since he was staying with Aunt
Phyllis--not to me, nor Aunt Jane, nor anybody!'

'Well, he couldn't write when he was at sea, I mean there wasn't any
post.'

'It would not take so long as this to get to Fiji; and besides.  Uncle
Regie telegraphed to ask about that dreadful cheque, and there hasn't
been any answer at all.'

'Perhaps he is gone about sailing somewhere in the Pacific Ocean; I
heard Uncle William saying so to Cousin Rotherwood.' He said, 'Maurice
is not a fellow to resist a cruise.'

'Then they are thinking about it.  They are anxious.'

'Not very,' said Mysie, 'for they think he is sure to be gone on a
cruise.  They said something about his going down like a carpenter into
the deep sea.'

'Making deep-sea soundings, like Dr. Carpenter! A carpenter, indeed!'
said Dolores, laughing for a moment.  'Oh! if it is that, I don't
mind.'

The weight was lifted, but by-and-by, when the two girls said their
prayers together, poor Dolores broke forth again, 'Oh, Mysie, Mysie,
your papa has all--all of you, besides mamma, to pray that he may be
kept safe, and my father has only me, only horrid me, to pray for him,
and even I have never cared to do it really till just lately! Oh, poor,
poor father!  And suppose he should be drowned, and never, never have
forgiven me!'

It was a trouble and misery that recurred night after night, though
apparently it weighed much less during the day--and nobody but Mysie
knew how much Dolores was suffering from it.  Lady Merrifield was
increasingly anxious as time went on, and still no mail brought letters
from Mr.  Mohun, but confidence based on his erratic habits, and the
uncertainty of communication began to fail.  And as she grieved more
for the possible loss, she became more and more tender to her niece,
and strange to say, in spite of the terror that gnawed so achingly
every night, and of the ordeal that the Lent Assizes would bring,
Dolores was happier and more peaceful than ever before at Silverton,
and developed more of her bright side.

'I really think,' wrote Lady Merrifield to Miss Mohun, 'that she is
growing more simple and child-like, poor little maid.  She is
apparently free from all our apprehensions about dear Maurice, and I
would not inspire her with them for the world.  Neither does she seem
to dread the trial, as I do for her, nor to guess what cross-
examination may be.  Constance Hacket has been subpoenaed, and her
sister expatiates on her nervousness.  It is one comfort that Reginald
must be there as a witness, so that it is not in the power of Irish
disturbances to keep him from us! May we only be at ease about Maurice
by that time!'




CHAPTER XXI.

IN COURT AND OUT.



How Dolores's heart beat when Colonel Mohun drove up to the door! She
durst not run out to greet him among her cousins; but stood by her
aunt, feeling hot and cold and trembling, in the doubt whether he would
kiss her.

Yes, she did feel his kiss, and Mysie looked at her in congratulation.
But what did it mean? Was it only that it came as a matter of course,
and he forgot to withhold it, or was it that he had given up hopes of
her father, and was sorry for her? She could not make up her mind, for
he came so late in the evening that she scarcely saw him before bed-
time, and he did not take any special notice of her the next morning.
He had done his best to save her from being long detained at
Darminster, by ascertaining as nearly as possible when Flinders's case
would come on, and securing a room at the nearest inn, where she might
await a summons into court.  Lady Merrifield was going with them, but
would not take either of her daughters, thinking that every home eye
would be an additional distress, and that it was better that no one
should see or remember Dolores as a witness.

Miss Mohun met the party at the station, going off, however, with her
brother into court, after having established Lady Merrifield and her
niece in an inn parlour, where they kept as quiet as they could, by the
help of knitting, and reading aloud.  Lady Merrifield found that
Dolores had been into court before, and knew enough about it to need no
explanation or preparation, and being much afraid of causing agitation,
she thought it best only to try to interest her in such tales as
'Neale's Triumphs of the Cross,' instead of letting her dwell on what
she most dreaded, the sight of the prisoner, and the punishment her
words might bring upon him.

The morning ended, and Uncle Reginald brought word that his case would
come on immediately after luncheon.  This he shared with his sister and
niece, saying that Jane had gone to a pastrycook's with--with
Rotherwood--thinking this best for Dolly.  He seemed to be in strangely
excited spirits, and was quite his old self to Dolores, tempting her to
eat, and showing himself so entirely the kind uncle that she would have
been quite cheered up if she had not been afraid that it was all out of
pity, and that he knew something dreadful.

Lord Rotherwood met them at the hotel entrance, and took his cousin on
his arm; Dolores following with her uncle, was sure that she gave a
great start at something that he said; but she had to turn in a
different direction to wait under the charge of her uncle, who treated
her as if she were far more childish and inexperienced in the ways of
courts than she really was, and instructed her in much that she knew
perfectly well; but it was too comfortable to have him kind to her for
her to take the least offence, and she only said 'Yes' and 'Thank you'
at the proper places.

The sheriff, meantime, had given Lord Rotherwood and Lady Merrifield
seats near the judge, where Miss Mohun was already installed.  Alfred
Flinders was already at the bar, and for the first time Lady Merrifield
saw his somewhat handsome but shifty-looking face and red beard, as the
counsel for the prosecution was giving a detailed account of his
embarrassed finances, and of his having obtained from the inexperienced
kindness of a young lady, a mere child in age, who called him uncle,
though without blood relationship, a draft of her father's for seven
pounds, which, when presented at the bank, had become one for seventy.

As before, the presenting and cashing of the seventy pounds was sworn
to by the banker's clerk, and then Dolores Mary Mohun was called.

There she stood, looking smaller than usual in her black, close-fitting
dress and hat, in a place meant for grown people, her dark face pale
and set, keeping her eyes as much as she could from the prisoner.  When
the counsel spoke she gave a little start, for she knew him, as one who
had often spent an evening with her parents, in the cheerful times
while her mother lived.  There was something in the familiar glance of
his eyes that encouraged her, though he looked so much altered by his
wig and gown, and it seemed strange that he should question her, as a
stranger, on her exact name and age, her father's absence, the
connection with the prisoner, and present residence.  Then came:

'Did your father leave any money with you?'

'Yes.'

'What was the amount?'

'Five pounds for myself; seven besides.'

'In what form was the seven pounds?'

'A cheque from W.'s bank.'

'Did you part with it?'

'Yes.'

'To whom?'

'I sent it to him.'

'To whom if you please?'

'To Mr. Alfred Flinders.' And her voice trembled.

'Can you tell me when you sent it away?'

'It was on the 22nd of December.'

'Is this the cheque?'

'It has been altered.'

'Explain in what manner?'

'There has 'ty' been put at the end of the written 'seven,' and a
cipher after the figure 7 making it 70.'

'You are sure that it was not so when it went out of your possession?'

'Perfectly sure.'

Mr. Calderwood seemed to have done with her, and said, 'Thank you;' but
then there stood up a barrister, whom she suspected of being a man her
mother had disliked, and she knew that the worst was coming when he
said, in a specially polite voice too, 'Allow me to ask whether the
cheque in question had been intended by Mr. Mohun for the prisoner?'

'No.'

'Or was it given to you as pocket-money?'

'No, it was to pay a bill.'

'Then did you divert it from that purpose?'

'I thought the man was dead.'

'What man?'

'Professor Muhlwasser.'

'The creditor?'

'Yes.'

Mr. Calderwood objected to these questions as irrelevant; but the
prisoner's counsel declared them to be essential, and the judge let him
go on to extract from Dolores that the payment was intended for an
expensive illustrated work on natural history, which was to be
published in Germany.  Her father had promised to take two copies of it
if it were completed; but being doubtful whether this would ever be the
case, he had preferred leaving a draft with her to letting the account
be discharged by his brother, and he had reckoned that seven pounds
would cover the expense.

'You say you supposed the author was dead.  What reason had you for
thinking so?'

'He told me; Mr. Flinders did.'

'Had Mr. Mohun sanctioned your applying this sum to any other purpose
than that specified?'

'No, he had not.  I did wrong,' said Dolores, firmly.

He wrinkled up his forehead, so that the point of his wig went upwards,
and proceeded to inquire whether she had herself given the cheque to
the prisoner.

'I sent it.'

'Did you post it?'

'Not myself.  I gave it to Miss Constance Hacket to send it for me.'

'Can you swear to the sum for which it was drawn when you parted with
it?'

'Yes.  I looked at it to see whether it was pounds or guineas.'

'Did you give it loose or in an envelope?'

'In an envelope.'

'Was any other person aware of your doing so?'

'Nobody.'

'What led you to make this advance to the prisoner?'

'Because he told me that he was in great distress.'

'He told you.  By letter or in person?'

'In person.'

'When did he tell you so?'

'On the 22nd of December.'

'And where?'

'At Darminster.'

'Let me ask whether this interview at Darminster took place with the
knowledge of the lady with whom you reside?'

'No, it did not,' said Dolores, colouring deeply.

'Was it a chance meeting?'

'No--by appointment.'

'How was the appointment made?'

'We wrote to say we would come that day.'

'We--who was the other party?'

'Miss Constance Hacket.'

'You were then in correspondence with the prisoner.  Was it with the
sanction of Lady Merrifield?'

'No.'

'A secret correspondence, then, romantically carried on--by what
means?'

'Constance Hacket sent the letters and received them for me.'

'What was the motive for this arrangement?'

'I knew my aunt would prevent my having anything to do with him.'

'And you--excuse me--what interest had you in doing so?'

'My mother had been like his sister, and always helped him.'

All these answers were made with a grave, resolute straightforwardness,
generally with something of Dolores's peculiar stony look, and only
twice was there any involuntary token of feeling, when she blushed at
confessing the concealment from her aunt, and at the last question,
when her voice trembled as she spoke of her mother.  She kept her eyes
on her interrogators all the time, never once glancing towards the
prisoner, though all the time she had a sensation as if his reproachful
looks were piercing her through.

She was dismissed, and Constance Hacket was brought in, looking about
in every direction, carrying a handkerchief and scent bottle, and not
attempting to conceal her flutter of agitation.

Mr. Calderwood had nothing to ask her but about her having received the
cheque from Miss Mohun and forwarded it to Flinders, though she could
not answer for the date without a public computation back from
Christmas Day, and forward from St. Thomas's.  As to the amount--

'Oh, yes, certainly, seven pounds.'

Moreover she had posted it herself.

Then came the cross-examination,

'Had she seen the draft before posting it?'

'Well--she really did not remember exactly.'

'How did she know the amount then?'

'Well, I think--yes--I think Dolores told me so.'

'You think,' he said, in a sort of sneer.  'On your oath.  Do you
know?'

'Yes, yes, yes.  She assured me! I know something was said about
seven.'

'Then you cannot swear to the contents of the envelope you forwarded?'

'I don't know.  It was all such a confusion and hurry.'

'Why so?'

'Oh! because it was a secret.'

The counsel of course availed himself of this handle to elicit that the
witness had conducted a secret correspondence between the prisoner and
her young friend without the knowledge of the child's natural
protectors.  'A perfect romance,' he said, 'I believe the prisoner is
unmarried.'

Perhaps this insinuation would have been checked, but before any one
had time to interfere, Constance, blushing crimson, exclaimed, 'Oh! Oh!
I assure you it was not that.  It was because she said he was her uncle
and that they ill-used him.'

This brought upon her the searching question whether the last witness
had stated the prisoner to be really her uncle, and Constance replied,
rather hotly, that she had always understood that he was.

'In fact, she gave you to understand that the prisoner was actually
related to her by blood.  Did you say that she also told you that he
was persecuted or ill-used by her other relations?'

'I thought so.  Yes, I am sure she said so.'

'And it was wholly and solely on these grounds that you assisted in
this clandestine correspondence?'

'Why--yes--partly,' faltered Constance, thinking of her literary
efforts, 'so it began.'

There was a manifest inclination to laugh in the audience, who
naturally thought her hesitation implied something very different; and
the judge, thinking that there was no need to push her further, when
Mr. Calderwood represented that all this did not bear on the matter,
and was no evidence, silenced Mr. Yokes, and the witness was dismissed.

The next point was that Colonel Reginald Mohun was called upon to
attest that the handwriting was his brother's.  He answered for the
main body of the draft, and the signature, but the additions, in which
the forgery lay, were so slight that it was impossible to swear that
they did not come from the hand of Maurice Mohun.

'Had application been made to Mr. Mohun on the subject?'

'Yes, Colonel Mohun had immediately telegraphed to him at the address
in the Fiji Islands.'

'Has any answer been received?'

'No!' but Colonel Mohun had a curious expression in his eyes, and Mr.
Calderwood electrified the court by begging to call upon Mr. Maurice
Mohun.

There he was in the witness-box, looking sunburnt but vigorous.  He
replied immediately to the question that the cheque was his own, and
that it had been left under his daughter's charge, also that it had
been for seven pounds, and the 'ty' and the cypher had never been
written by him.  The prisoner winced for a moment, and then looked at
him defiantly.

The connection with Alfred Flinders was inquired into and explained,
and being asked as to the term 'Uncle,' he replied, 'My daughter was
allowed to get into the habit of so terming him.'

The sisters saw his look of pain, and Jane remembered his strong
objection to the title, and his wife's indignant defence of it.

Dolores stood trembling outside in the waiting-room, by her Uncle
Reginald, from whom she heard that her father had come that morning
from London with Lord Rotherwood, but that it had been thought better
not to agitate her by letting her know of it before she gave her
evidence.

'Has he had my letter?' she asked.

'No; he knew nothing till he saw Rotherwood last night.'

All the misery of writing the confession came back upon poor Dolores,
and she turned quite white and sick, but her uncle said kindly, 'Never
mind, my dear, he was very much pleased with your manner of giving
evidence.  Such a contrast to your friend's.  Faugh!'

In a few more seconds Mr. Mohun had come out.  He took the cold,
trembling hands in his own, pressed them close, met the anxious eyes
with his own, full of moisture, and said, 'My poor little girl,' in a
tone that somehow lightened Dolly's heart of its worst dread.

'Will you go back into court?' asked the colonel.

'You don't wish it, Dolly?' said her father.

'Oh no! please not.'

'Then,' said the colonel, 'take your father back to the room at the
hotel, and we will come to you.  I suppose this will not last much
longer.'

'Probably not half an hour.  I don't want to see that fellow either
convicted or acquitted.'

Then Dolores found herself steered out of the passages and from among
the people waiting or gazing, into the clearer space in the street, her
father holding her hand as if she had been a little child.  Neither of
them spoke till they had reached the sitting-room, and there, the first
thing he did when the door was shut, was to sit down, take her between
his knees, put an arm round her, and kiss her, saying again, 'My poor
child!'

'You never got my letter!' she said, leaning against him, feeling the
peace and rest his embrace gave.

'No; but I have heard all.  I should have warned you, Dolly; but I
never imagined that he could get at you there; and I was unwilling to
accuse one for whom your mother had a certain affection.'

'That was why I helped him,' whispered Dolores.

'I knew it,' he said kindly.  'But how did he find you out, and how had
he the impertinence to write to you at your Aunt Lily's--'

'I wrote to him first,' she said, hanging down her head.

'How was that? You surely had not been in the habit of doing so whilst
I was at home.'

'No; but he came and spoke to me at Exeter, the day you went away.
Uncle William was not there, he had gone into the town.  And he--Mr.
Flinders, said he was going down to see you, and was very much
disappointed to hear that you were gone.'

'Did he ask you to write to him?'

'I don't think he did.  Father, it seems too silly now, but I was very
angry because Aunt Lilias said she must see all my letters except yours
and Maude Sefton's, and I told Constance Hacket.  She said she would
send anything for me, and I could not think of any one I wanted to
write to, so I wrote to--to him.'

'Ah! I saw you did not get on with your aunt,' was the answer, 'that
was partly what brought me home.' And either not hearing or not heeding
her exclamation, 'Oh, but now I do,' he went on to explain that on his
arrival at Fiji he had found that circumstances had altered there, and
that the person with whom he was to have been associated had died, so
that the whole scheme had been broken up.  A still better appointment
had, however, been offered to him in New Zealand, on the resignation of
the present holder after a half-year's notice, and he had at once
written to accept it.  A proposal had been made to him to spend the
intermediate time in a scientific cruise among the Polynesian Islands;
but the letters he had found awaiting him at Vanua Levu had convinced
him that the arrangements he had made in England had been a mistake,
and he had therefore hurried home via San Francisco, as fast as any
letter could have gone, to wind up his English affairs, and fetch his
daughter to the permanent home in Auckland, which her Aunt Phyllis
would prepare for her.

Her countenance betrayed a sudden dismay, which made him recollect that
she was a strangely undemonstrative girl; but before she had recovered
the shock so as to utter more than a long 'Oh!' they were interrupted
by the cup of tea that had been ordered for Dolores, and in a minute
more, steps were heard, and the two aunts were in the room.  'Seven
years,' were Jane's first words, and 'My dear Maurice,' Lady
Merrifield's, 'Oh! I wish I could have spared you this,' and then among
greetings came again, 'Seven years,' from the brother and cousin who
had seen the traveller before.

'I'm glad you were not there, Maurice,' said Lady Merrifield.  'It was
dreadful.'

'I never saw a more insolent fellow!' said Lord Rotherwood.

'That Yokes, you mean,' said Miss Mohun.  'I declare I think he is
worse than Flinders!'

'That's like you women, Jenny,' returned the colonel; 'you can't
understand that a man's business is to get off his client!'

'When he gave him up as an honest man altogether!' cried Lady
Merrifield.

'And cast such imputations!' exclaimed Aunt Jane.  'I saw what the
wretch was driving at all the time of the cross-examination; and if I'd
been the judge, would not I have stopped him?'

'There you go.  Lily and Jenny!' said the colonel, 'and Rotherwood just
as bad! Why, Maurice would have had to take just the same line if he
had been for the defence.'

'He would not have done it in such a blackguard fashion though,' said
Lord Rotherwood.

'I saw what his defence would be,' said Mr. Mohun, briefly.

'There!' said Colonel Mohun, with a boyish pleasure in confuting his
sisters; but they were not subdued.

'Now Maurice,' cried Jane, 'when that man was known to be utterly
dishonourable and good for nothing, was it fair--was it not contrary to
all common sense--to try to cast the imputation between those two poor
girls? So the judge and jury felt it, I am happy to say! but I call it
abominable to have thrown out the mere suggestion--'

'Nay now, Jane,' said the colonel, 'if the man was to be defended at
all, how else was it to be done?'

'I wouldn't have had him defended at all! but, unfortunately, that's
his right as an Englishman.'

'That's another thing! But as the cheque did not alter itself, one of
the three must have done it, and nothing was left but to show that
there had been an amount of shuffling, and--in short, nonsense--that
might cast enough doubt on their evidence to make it insufficient for a
conviction.'

'Reginald! I can't think how you can stand up for such a wretch, a
vulgar wretch,' cried Miss Mohun.  'You put it delicately, as a
gentleman who had the misfortune to be counsel in such a case might do,
but he was infinitely worse than that, though that was bad enough.'

'It was Yokes,' put in Mr. Mohun; 'but what did he say?' looking
anxiously at his daughter.

'It was not so bad about her,' said her uncle, 'he only made her out a
foolish child, easily played upon by everybody, and possibly ignorant
and frightened, or led away by her regard for her supposed relation.
It was the other poor girl--

'The amiable susceptibilities of romantic young ladies!' broke out Lady
Merrifield.  'Oh, the creature!'  To think of that poor foolish
Constance sitting by to hear it represented that the expedition to
Darminster, and all the rest of it, was because she was actually
touched by that fellow.  I really felt ready to take her part.'

'She had certainly brought it on herself,' said Aunt Jane; 'but it was
atrocious of him and if the other counsel had only known it, he stopped
the cross examination just at the wrong time, or it would have come out
that it was literary vanity that was the lure.  No doubt he would have
made a laughing-stock of that, but it would not have been as bad as the
other.'

'Poor thing,' said Lady Merrifield; 'it was a trying retribution for
schoolgirl folly and want of conscientiousness.  I should think she was
a sadder and a wiser woman.'

'He must have overdone it,' said Mr. Mohun, 'he is a vulgar fellow, and
always does so; but, as Reginald says, the only available defence was
to enhance the folly and sentiment of the girls; but of course the
judge charged the other way--

'Entirely,' said Lord Rotherwood, 'he brought Dolly rather well out of
it, saying that as he understood it, a young girl who had seen a needy
connection assisted from her home might think herself justified in
corresponding with him, and even in diverting to his use money left in
her charge, when it was probable that it would not be required for the
original object.  He did not say it was right, but it was an error of
judgment by no means implying swindling--in fact.  He disposed of Miss
Hacket in the same way--foolish, sentimental, unscrupulous, but not to
that degree.  Girls might be silly enough in all conscience, but not so
as to commit forgery or perjury.  That was the gist of it, and happily
the jury were of the same opinion.'

'Happily? Well, I suppose so,' said Mr. Mohun, with a certain
sorrowfulness of tone, into which his little daughter entered.

'I say, Rotherwood,' exclaimed the colonel, as the town clock's two
strokes for the half-hour echoed loudly, 'if you mean to catch the
4.50, you must fly.'

'Fly!' he coolly repeated.  'Tell Mysie, Lily, that Fly has never
ceased talking of her.  That child has been saving her money to fit out
one of Florence's orphan's.  She--'

'Rotherwood,' broke in Mr. Mohun, 'your wife charged me to see that you
were in time for that dinner.  A ministerial one.'

'Don't encourage him, Lily,' chimed in the colonel.  'I'll call a cab.
See him safe off, Maurice.'

And off he was hunted amid the laughter of the ladies; the manner of
all to one another was so exactly what it had been in the old times.

'I could hardly help telling him to take care, or Victoria would never
let him out again,' said Miss Mohun.  'Poor old fellow, it would have
been a fine chance for him with four of us together.'

'You can come back with us, Jenny!'

'I brought my bag in case of accidents.'

'And we'll telegraph to Adeline to join us tomorrow,' said Mr. Mohun,
who seemed to have been seized with a hunger for the sight of his
kindred.

'Telegraph!  My dear Maurice, Ada's nerves would be torn to smithereens
by a telegram without me to open it for her.  I've a card here to post
to her; but I expect that I must go down tomorrow and fetch her, which
will be the best way, for I have a meeting.'

'Jenny, I declare you are a caution even to Miss Hacket,' said Colonel
Reginald, re-entering.

'Well, Ada always was the family pet.  Besides, I told you I had a
G.F.S. meeting.  Did you get a cab for us; Lily has had quite walking
enough.'

The ladies went in a cab, while the gentlemen walked.  There was not
much time to spare, and in the compartment into which the first comers
threw themselves, they found both the Hacket sisters installed, and the
gentlemen coming up in haste, nodded and got into a smoking-carriage,
on seeing how theirs was occupied.

'Oh, we could have made room,' said Constance, to whom a gentleman was
a gentleman under whatever circumstances.

'Dear Miss Dolores's papa! Is it indeed?' said Miss Hacket.

'So wonderfully interesting,' chimed in Constance.  And they both made
a dart at Dolores to kiss her in congratulation, much against her will.

The train clattered on, and Lady Merrifield hoped it would hush all
other voices, but neither of the Hackets could refrain from discussing
the trial, and heaping such unmitigated censure on the counsel for the
prisoner, that Miss Mohun felt herself constrained to fly in the face
of all she had said at the hotel, and to maintain the right of even
such an Englishman to be defended, and of his advocate to prevent his
conviction if possible.  On which the regular sentiment against
becoming lawyers was produced, and the subject might have been dropped
if Constance had not broken out again, as if she could not leave it.
'So atrocious, so abominably insolent, asking if he was unmarried.'

'Evidently flattered!' muttered Aunt Jane, between her teeth, and
unheard; but the speed slackened, and Constance's voice went on,

'I really thought I should have died of it on the spot.  The bare idea
of thinking I could endure such a being.'

'Well,' said Dolores, just as the clatter ceased at a little station.
'You know you did walk up and down with him ever so long, and I am sure
you liked him very much.'

An indignant 'You don't understand' was absolutely cut off by an
imperative grasp and hush from Miss Hacket the elder; Aunt Jane was
suffocating with laughter, Lady Merrifield, between that and a certain
shame for womanhood, which made her begin to talk at random about
anything or everything else.




CHAPTER XXII.

NAY.



'What a mull they have made of it!' were Mr. Maurice Mohun's first
words when he found the compartment free for a tete-a-tete with his
brother.

'All's well that ends well,' was the brief reply.

'Well, indeed! Mary would not have thought so.'  To which the colonel
had nothing to say.

'It serves me out,' his brother went on presently.  'I ought to have
done something for that wretched fellow before I went, or, at any rate,
have put Dolly on her guard; but I always shirked the very thought of
him.'

'Nothing would have kept him out of harm's way.'

'It might have kept the child; but she must have been thicker with him
than I ever knew.  However I shall have her with me for the future, and
in better hands.'

'You really mean to take her out?'

'That's what brought me home.  She isn't happy; that is plain from her
letters; and Jane does not know what to make of her, nor Lilias
either.'

'When were your last letters dated?'

'The last week in September.'

'Early days,' muttered the colonel.

'I thought it an experiment, you know; but you said so much about
Lily's girls being patterns, that I thought Jasper Merrifield might
have made her more rational and less flighty, and all that sort of
thing; but of course it was a very different tone from what the child
was used to, and you couldn't tell what the young barbarians were out
of sight.'

'So I began to think last winter; but I fancy you will find that she
and Lily understand one another a good deal better than they did at
first.'

'I thought she did not receive my intelligence as a deliverance.  I am
glad if she can carry away an affectionate remembrance, but I want to
have her under my own eye.'

'I suppose that's all right,' was the half reluctant reply.

'There's Phyllis.  She is full of good sense, with no nonsense about
her or May, and her girls are downright charming.'

'Very likely; but I say, Maurice, you must not underrate Lilias.  She
has gone through a good deal with Dolores, and I believe she has been
the making of her.  You've had to leave the poor child a good deal to
herself and Fraulein, and, as you see by this affair, she had some ways
that made it hard for Lily to deal with her at first.'

Her father plainly did not like this.  'There was no harm in the poor
child, but as I should have foreseen, there's always an atmosphere of
sentiment and ritual and flummery about Lilias, totally different from
what she was used to.'

Colonel Mohun had nearly said, 'So much the better,' but turned it
into, 'I think you will change your opinion.'

Brothers and sisters, and cousins, whatever they may be to the external
world, always remain relatively to each other pretty much as they knew
one another when a single home held them all.  The familiar Christian
names seemed to revive the old ways, and it was amusing to see the
somewhat grave and silent colonel treated by his elder brother as the
dashing, heedless boy, needing to be looked after, while his sister
Jane remained the ready helper and counsellor, and Lady Merrifield was
still in his eyes the unpractical, fanciful Lily with an unfortunately
suggestive rhyme to her name.

Perhaps it maintained him in this opinion, that when he had answered
all questions about Captain and Mrs.  Harry May, and had dilated on
their pretty house in the suburbs of Auckland, his sisters expected him
to tell of the work of the Church among the Maoris and Fijians.  He
laughed at them for thinking colonists troubled their heads about
natives.

'I know Phyllis does.  One of Harry May's brothers went out as a
missionary.'

'Disenchanted and came home again when his wife came into a fortune.'

'Not a bit of it,' said Aunt Jane.  'I know him and all about him.  He
stayed till his health broke, and now he is one of the most useful men
in the country.  He is coming to speak for the S.P.G. at Rockquay,
Lily; and you must come and meet him and his charming wife.  They will
tell you a very different story about Harry's doings.'

'Well,' allowed Mr. Mohun, 'there are apparitions of brown niggers done
up as smart as twopence prancing about the house.  Perfectly
uninteresting, you know, the savage sophisticated out of his
picturesqueness.  I made a point of asking no questions, not knowing
what I might be let in for.'

'Then you heard nothing of Mr. Ward, the Melanesian missionary, whom
Phyllis keeps a room for when he comes to New Zealand to recruit.'

'The man who was convicted of murder on circumstantial evidence!  Oh
yes.  I heard of him.  I believe the labour-traffic agents heartily
wish him at Portland still, he makes the natives so much too sharp.'

'Aye,' said the colonel, 'as long as Britons aren't slaves they have no
objection to anything but the name for other people.'

'Wait till you get out there, Regie, and see what they all say about
those lazy fellows--except, of course, ladies and parsons, and a few
whom they've bitten, like May.'

'The few are on the Christian side, of course,' said Lady Merrifield,
with irony in her tone.

Indeed, she was not at all sure that half this colonial prejudice was
not assumed in order to tease her, just as in former times her brother
would make game of her enthusiasms about school children; for he was
altogether returned to his old self, his sister Jane, who had seen the
most of him, testifying that the original Maurice had revived, as never
in the course of his married life.

Dolores tried to forget or disbelieve the words she had heard about his
having come to fetch her away, and said no word about them until they
had been unmistakably repeated.  Then she felt a sort of despair at the
idea of being separated from her aunt and Mysie, for indeed they had
penetrated to affections deeper than had ever been consciously stirred
in her before.  Yet she was old enough to shrink from allowing to her
father that she preferred staying with them to going with him, and it
was to her Aunt Jane that she had recourse.  That lady, after returning
from her expedition to bring her sister Adeline to Silverton, was
surprised by a timid knock at the door, and Dolores's entrance.

'Oh, if you please, Aunt Jane, may I come in? I do so want to speak to
you alone.  Don't you think it is a sad pity that I should go away from
the Cambridge examination? Could not you tell my father so?'

'You want to stay for the Cambridge examination,' said Aunt Jane, a
little amused at the manner of touching on the subject, though sorry
for the girl.

'I have been taking great pains under Miss Vincent, and it does seem a
pity to miss it.'

'I don't think it will make much difference to you.'

'Oh, but I do want to be thoroughly well educated.  I meant to go
through them all, like Gillian and Mysie, and I am sure father must
wish it too.  I know he meant it when he went out last year.'

'Yes, he did,' said Miss Mohun.  'It was very unlucky that he did not
get any of our later letters.'

'I have tried to tell him that it is all different now, but he does not
seem to care,' said Dolores.

'He has quite made up his mind,' said her aunt.

'Has he quite?' said Dolores.  'I thought perhaps if you talked to him
about the examination and the confirmation too--'

'But, Dolly, you are not going to a heathen country.  Your confirmation
will be as much attended to in New Zealand as here.'

'Oh, but I should be confirmed with Mysie, and Aunt Lily would read
with me, and help me!'

'Yes, I see.'

'Do please tell him.  Aunt Jane.  He heeds what you say more than any
one.  Do tell him that the only hope of my being good is if I stay with
Aunt Lily just these few years!'

'Ah, Dolly, that is what you really mean and care about--not the
Cambridge business.'

'Of course it is.  Please tell him, Aunt Jane--somehow I can't--that I
was bad and foolish when I wrote all the letters he had; but now I know
better, and--and--I don't want to vex him, but I shall be ever so much
better a daughter to him if he will leave me with Aunt Lily, to learn
some of her goodness'--and there were tears in her eyes, for these
months had softened her greatly.

'My poor Dolly!' said Aunt Jane, much more tenderly than she generally
spoke.  'I am very sorry for you.  I do think Aunt Lily has been the
making of you, and that it is very hard that you should have to be
uprooted from her, just as you had learnt to value her, I will tell
your father so; but honestly, I do not think it is likely to make him
change his mind.'

Miss Mohun sought her brother out the next day, and told him that they
had all been waiting in patience when thinking that his daughter's
residence at Silverton was an unsuccessful experiment.  The explosion
she had predicted had come, and Dolores had been a different creature
ever since, owing to Lady Merrifield's management of her in the crisis;
and she added that the girl was most unwilling to leave her aunt, and
that she herself thought it would be much better to leave her for a few
years to the advantages of her present training, where her affections
had been gained.  Mr.  Mohun could not see it in the same light.  The
intimacy with Constance Hacket was in his eyes a folly, consequent on
his sister's passion for Sunday schools and charities; and Jane, being
infected with the like ardour, he disregarded her explanations.  The
underhand correspondence could not have been carried on without great
blindness and carelessness, or, at least, injudiciousness, on Lady
Merrifield's part, and there was no denying that she had trusted to a
sense of honour that was nonexistent.  Nor did he appreciate Jane's
argument that the conquest of the heart and will had thus been far more
thoroughly gained than it would have been by constant thwarting and
watching.  It was hard to forgive such an exposure as had taken place,
or to believe that it had not been brought about by unjustifiable
errors, more especially as Lady Merrifield was the first to accuse
herself of them.   Moreover, he had become sensible of a strong natural
yearning for the presence of his only child, and he had been so much
struck with his sister Phyllis's family that he sincerely believed
himself consulting the girl's best interests.  He was by no means an
irreligious or ungodly man, but he had always thought his sister Lilias
more or less of an enthusiast, and he did not wish to see Dolores the
same.  Perhaps, indeed, the poor child's manifest clinging to her aunt
and cousins made him all the more resolute to remove her before her
affection should be entirely weaned from himself.

He made his headquarters at Silverton, and during the next two months
modified his opinions so far as to confess to his sister Jane that
Lilias was a much more sensible woman than he had believed her, and had
her children well in hand.  He even allowed that Dolores was improved,
and owed much to her kindness; and when the first sting of the exposure
was over, he could see that the treatment had been far from injudicious
as regarded the girl's own character.  He was even glad that warm love
and friendship had grown up towards her aunt and cousins; but all this
left his purpose unchanged; although, after the first, nothing was said
about it, Dolores tried to forget it, and hoped that the sight of her
going on well and peaceably would convince him of the inexpediency of
disturbing her.  She could not even mention it to Mysie, lest the dread
should become a reality by being uttered.  So no more passed on the
subject till it became necessary to take her outfit in hand, and he
also wished to take her to Beechcroft, that the old family home which
he regarded with fresh tenderness might be impressed on her memory.

Then, though she never durst directly oppose the fate which he destined
for her, she surprised him by a violent burst of tears and sobbing, and
an entreaty that he would not take her away from Aunt Lily and Mysie a
moment sooner than could be helped.

She clung to everything, even to the guinea-pigs, and she was the first
in the Easter holidays to beg for the 'Thorn Fortress.' Indeed, Mysie
was a little shocked at her grief, as disloyal and unfilial.  'One
ought not to mind going anywhere with one's father,' she said; 'we all
thought it a great honour for Phyllis and Alethea.'

'They are grown up!' said Dolores, 'and Aunt Lily does get into one so!
Oh, don't say there's Aunt Phyllis.  I hate the very name of her.'

'She must be nice,' said Mysie, 'Whenever the 'grown-ups' are pleased
with me they say I am getting like her, as if it was the best thing one
could be.'

'But I don't want Mysie old and grown up, I want my Mysie now, as you
are!--And you'll forget and leave off writing, like Maude Sefton.'

'Never!' cried Mysie.  'Eight across the world you will always be my
own twin cousin.'

The wishes of the girl were so far fulfilled that Lady Merrifield took
her to London to provide her outfit, and Mysie accompanied them.  A
room and its dressing-room received the three at old Mrs.
Merrifield's, and the two cousins thought their close quarters
ineffably precious.

Mysie was introduced to Maude Sefton, who seemed entirely unconscious
of her treachery to friendship.  'One had so little time, and couldn't
always be writing,' she said, when Dolores reproached her; 'exercises
were enough to tire out one's hand!'

They also drank tea with Lady Phyllis Devereux and her governess.  Fly
could not pour forth questions and reminiscences fast enough about all
the beloved animals at Silverton, not forgetting the little G.F.S.
nursemaid, for whom she had actually made an apron in her plain-work
lessons.  Moreover, she deemed Dolores's fate most enviable, to be
going off with her father to strange countries, away from lessons, and
masters, and towns.  It would be almost as good as Leila on the island.

As to the Beechcroft visit, Mr. and Mrs. Mohun collected all the
brothers and sisters in England there for a week, and still Mysie and
Dolores were allowed to be together, squeezed into a corner of Lady
Merrifield's room.  It was high summer, bright and glowing, and so dry,
and even the invalidish sisters, Lady Henry Gray and Miss Adeline Mohun
could not object to the sitting out on the lawn, among the dragon-
flies, as in days of yore.

Much of old thought and feeling was then and there taken up again, and
it was on one of the last evenings of the visit that Mr. Mohun, walking
up and down the alley with Lady Merrifield, said--

'Well, Lily, I think my determination to take Dolly away was hasty.  I
cannot leave her now, but if I had understood all that I see at
present, I should have been both content and grateful to have her among
your children.  I am afraid I have been ungracious.'

'I never thought so, Maurice.  It is quite right that she should be
with you, and Phyllis will do every-thing for her much better than I.'

'Poor child! I believe she is very sorry to go,' said Mr. Mohun; 'but,
at any rate, she will remember Silverton as, I hope, a lasting
influence on her life.'

Dolores truly believed that so it would be, and that her aunt's
guidance would be always looked back upon as the turning-point of her
life.

'It is my own fault,' she said, as on the last night she clung
tearfully to Lady Merrifield; 'if I had behaved better I might have
gone on just like one of your own.'

'You will still be in my heart like one of my own, dear child,' said
Lady Merrifield.  'We know the way in which we all can hold together as
one; keep to that, and the distance apart will matter the less.'

And as they watched Dolores and her father driven away to the station
the next morning, Jane Mohun laid her hand on her sister's arm and
said, 'You thought you had made a great failure.  Lily, but is not the
other side of a failure often a success?'

By-and-by came letters from Dolores.  She seemed after the first to
have enjoyed her journey, for, as she wrote to Lady Merrifield, in a
letter, very private, and all to her own self, 'Father was so very good
and kind to me, I don't know how to tell you.  It was as if a little
bit of mother had got into him, and now I am here I think I shall like
the Mays.  Indeed, I am trying to remember your advice, and not
beginning by hating everybody and thinking who they are not.  Aunt
Phyllis is very nice indeed, and sometimes her eyes and mouth get like
Mysie's, and her voice is just exactly yours.   Only she is plump and
roundabout, not a dear, tall, graceful figure like my White Lily Aunt.
Please don't call it nonsense, for indeed I mean it, and Aunt Phyllis
does like your photograph so much.  I have the whole group hung up in
my room, and you over it, and I wish you all good morning every day,
for I never, never, as long as I live, shall love anybody like you and
Mysie.'



THE END.






End of Project Gutenberg's The Two Sides of the Shield, by Charlotte M. Yonge





This eBook was produced by Jim Weiler, xooqi.com



                             A Texas Ranger

By William MacLeod Raine, 1910

                    FOREWORD TO YE GENTLE READER.

Within the memory of those of us still on the sunny side of forty the
more remote West has passed from rollicking boyhood to its responsible
majority. The frontier has gone to join the good Indian. In place of
the ranger who patrolled the border for "bad men" has come the forest
ranger, type of the forward lapping tide of civilization. The place
where I write this-- Tucson, Arizona-- is now essentially more
civilized than New York. Only at the moving picture shows can the old
West, melodramatically overpainted, be shown to the manicured sons and
daughters of those, still living, who brought law and order to the
mesquite.

As Arthur Chapman, the Western poet, has written:

  No loopholes now are framing
  Lean faces, grim and brown;
  No more keen eyes are aiming
  To bring the redskin down.
  The plough team's trappings jingle
  Across the furrowed field,
  And sounds domestic mingle
  Where valor hung its shield.
  But every wind careering
  Seems here to breathe a song--
  A song of brave frontiering--
  A saga of the strong.

  Part I

 (In Which Steve Plays Second Fiddle)

THE MAN FROM THE PANHANDLE

  CHAPTER I

 A DESERT MEETING

As she lay crouched in the bear-grass there came to the girl clearly
the crunch of wheels over disintegrated granite. The trap had dipped
into a draw, but she knew that presently it would reappear on the
winding road. The knowledge smote her like a blast of winter, sent
chills racing down her spine, and shook her as with an ague. Only the
desperation of her plight spurred her flagging courage.

Round the bend came a pair of bays hitched to a single-seated open
rig. They were driven by a young man, and as he reached the summit he
drew up opposite her and looked down into the valley.

It lay in a golden glow at their feet, a basin of pure light and
silence stretching mile on mile to the distant edge of jagged
mountain-line which formed its lip. Sunlight strong as wine flooded a
clean world, an amber Eden slumbering in an unbroken, hazy dream
primeval.

"Don't move!"

At the summons the driver swung his head sharply to a picture he will
never forget. A young woman was standing on the bank at the edge of
the road covering him with a revolver, having apparently just stepped
from behind the trunk of the cottonwood beside her. The color had fled
her cheeks even to the edge of the dull red-copper waves of hair, but
he could detect in her slim young suppleness no doubt or uncertainty.
On the contrary, despite her girlish freshness, she looked very much
like business. She was like some young wild creature of the forest
cornered and brought to bay, but the very terror in her soul rendered
her more dangerous. Of the heart beating like a trip-hammer the gray
unwinking eyes that looked into hers read nothing. She had schooled
her taut nerves to obedience, and they answered her resolute will
steadily despite fluttering pulses.

"Don't move!" she said again.

"What do you want?" he asked harshly.

"I want your team," she panted.

"What for?"

"Never mind. I want it."

The rigor of his gaze slowly softened to a smile compound both of
humor and grimness. He was a man to appreciate a piquant situation,
none the less because it was at his expense. The spark that gleamed in
his bold eye held some spice of the devil.

"All right. This is your hold-up, ma'am. I'll not move," he said,
almost genially.

She was uneasily aware that his surrender had been too tame. Strength
lay in that close-gripped salient jaw, in every line of the reckless
sardonic face, in the set of the lean muscular shoulders. She had
nerved herself to meet resistance, and instead he was yielding with
complacent good nature.

"Get out!" she commanded.

He stepped from the rig and offered her the reins. As she reached for
them his right hand shot out and caught the wrist that held the
weapon, his left encircled her waist and drew her to him. She gave a
little cry of fear and strained from him, fighting with all her lissom
strength to free herself.

For all the impression she made the girdle round her waist might have
been of steel. Without moving, he held her as she struggled, his brown
muscular fingers slowly tightening round her wrist. Her stifled cry
was of pain this time, and before it had died the revolver fell to the
ground from her paralyzed grip.

But her exclamation had been involuntary and born of the soft tender
flesh. The wild eyes that flamed into his asked for no quarter and
received none. He drew her slowly down toward him, inch by inch, till
she lay crushed and panting against him, but still unconquered. Though
he held the stiff resistant figure motionless she still flashed battle
at him.

He looked into the storm and fury of her face, hiding he knew not what
of terror, and laughed in insolent delight. Then, very deliberately,
he kissed her lips.

"You-- coward!" came instantly her choking defiance.

"Another for that," he laughed, kissing her again.

Her little fist beat against his face and he captured it, but as he
looked at her something that had come into the girl's face moved his
not very accessible heart. The salt of the adventure was gone, his
victory worse than a barren one. For stark fear stared at him, naked
and unconcealed, and back of that he glimpsed a subtle something that
he dimly recognized for the outraged maidenly modesty he had so
ruthlessly trampled upon. His hands fell to his side reluctantly.

She stumbled back against the tree trunk, watching him with fascinated
eyes that searched him anxiously. They found their answer, and with a
long ragged breath the girl turned and burst into hysterical tears.

The man was amazed. A moment since the fury of a tigress had possessed
her. Now she was all weak womanish despair. She leaned against the
cottonwood and buried her face in her arm, the while uneven sobs shook
her slender body. He frowned resentfully at this change of front, and
because his calloused conscience was disturbed he began to justify
himself. Why didn't she play it out instead of coming the baby act on
him? She had undertaken to hold him up and he had made her pay
forfeit. He didn't see that she had any kick coming. If she was this
kind of a boarding-school kid she ought not to have monkeyed with the
buzz-saw. She was lucky he didn't take her to El Paso with him and
have her jailed.

"I reckon we'll listen to explanations now," he said grimly after a
minute of silence interrupted only by her sobs.

The little fist that had struck at his face now bruised itself in
unconscious blows at the bark of the tree. He waited till the staccato
breaths had subsided, then took her by the shoulders and swung her
round.

"You have the floor, ma'am. What does this gun-play business mean?"

Through the tears her angry eyes flashed starlike.

"I sha'n't tell you," she flamed. "You had no right to-- How dared you
insult me as you have?"

"Did I insult you?" he asked, with suave gentleness. "Then if you feel
insulted I expect you lay claim to being a lady. But I reckon that
don't fit in with holding up strangers at the end of a gun. If I've
insulted you I'll ce'tainly apologize, but you'll have to show me I
have. We're in Texas, which is next door but one to Missouri, ma'am."

"I don't want your apologies. I detest and hate you," she cried,

"That's your privilege, ma'am, and it's mine to know whyfor I'm held
up with a gun when I'm traveling peaceably along the road," he
answered evenly.

"I'll not tell you."

He spoke softly as if to himself. "That's too bad. I kinder hate to
take her to jail, but I reckon I must."

She shrank back, aghast and white.

"No, no! You don't understand. I didn't mean to-- I only wanted-- Why,
I meant to pay you for the team."

"I'll understand when you tell me," he said placidly.

"I've told you. I needed the team. I was going to let you have one of
our horses and seventy-five dollars. It's all I have with me."

"One of your horses, you say? With seventy-five dollars to boot? And
you was intending to arrange the trade from behind that gun. I expect
you needed a team right bad."

His steady eyes rested on her, searched her, appraised her, while he
meditated aloud in a low easy drawl.

"Yes, you ce'tainly must need the team. Now I wonder why? Well, I'd
hate to refuse a lady anything she wants as bad as you do that." He
swiftly swooped down and caught up her revolver from the ground,
tossed it into the air so as to shift his hold from butt to barrel,
and handed it to her with a bow. "Allow me to return the pop-gun you
dropped, ma'am,"

She snatched it from him and leveled it at him so that it almost
touched his forehead. He looked at her and laughed in delighted
mockery.

"All serene, ma'am. You've got me dead to rights again."

His very nonchalance disarmed her. What could she do while his low
laughter mocked her?

"When you've gone through me complete I think I'll take a little
pasear over the hill and have a look at your hawss. Mebbe we might
still do business."

As he had anticipated, his suggestion filled her with alarm. She flew
to bar the way.

"You can't go. It isn't necessary."

"Sho! Of course it's necessary. Think I'm going to buy a hawss I've
never seen?" he asked, with deep innocence.

"I'll bring it here."

"In Texas, ma'am, we wait on the ladies. Still, it's your say-so when
you're behind that big gun."

He said it laughing, and she threw the weapon angrily into the seat of
the rig.

"Thank you, ma'am. I'll amble down and see what's behind the hill."

By the flinch in her eyes he tested his center shot and knew it true.
Her breast was rising and falling tumultuously. A shiver ran through
her.

"No-- no. I'm not hiding-- anything," she gasped.

"Then if you're not you can't object to my going there."

She caught her hands together in despair. There was about him
something masterful that told her she could not prevent him from
investigating; and it was impossible to guess how he would act after
he knew. The men she had known had been bound by convention to respect
a woman's wishes, but even her ignorance of his type made guess that
this steel-eyed, close-knit young Westerner-- or was he a
Southerner?-- would be impervious to appeals founded upon the rules of
the society to which she had been accustomed. A glance at his
stone-wall face, at the lazy confidence of his manner, made her
dismally aware that the data gathered by her experience of the
masculine gender were insufficient to cover this specimen.

"You can't go."

But her imperative refusal was an appeal. For though she hated him
from the depths of her proud, untamed heart for the humiliation he had
put upon her, yet for the sake of that ferocious hunted animal she had
left lying under a cottonwood she must bend her spirit to win him.

"I'm going to sit in this game and see it out," he said, not unkindly.

"Please!"

Her sweet slenderness barred the way about as electively as a mother
quail does the road to her young. He smiled, put his big hands on her
elbows, and gently lifted her to one side. Then he strode forward
lightly, with the long, easy, tireless stride of a beast of prey,
striking direct for his quarry.

A bullet whizzed by his ear, and like a flash of light his weapon was
unscabbarded and ready for action. He felt a flame of fire scorch his
cheek and knew a second shot had grazed him.

"Hands up! Quick!" ordered the traveler.

Lying on the ground before him was a man with close-cropped hair and a
villainous scarred face. A revolver in his hand showed the source of
the bullets.

Eye to eye the men measured strength, fighting out to the last ditch
the moral battle which was to determine the physical one. Sullenly, at
the last, the one on the ground shifted his gaze and dropped his gun
with a vile curse.

"Run to earth," he snarled, his lip lifting from the tobacco-stained
upper teeth in an ugly fashion.

The girl ran toward the Westerner and caught at his arm. "Don't
shoot," she implored

Without moving his eyes from the man on the ground he swept her back.

"This outfit is too prevalent with its hardware," he growled. "Chew
out an explanation, my friend, or you're liable to get spoiled."

It was the girl that spoke, in a low voice and very evidently under a
tense excitement.

"He is my brother and he has-- hurt himself. He can't ride any farther
and we have seventy miles still to travel. We didn't know what to do,
and so--"

"You started out to be a road-agent and he took a pot-shot at the
first person he saw. I'm surely obliged to you both for taking so much
interest in me, or rather in my team. Robbery and murder are quite a
family pastime, ain't they?"

The girl went white as snow, seemed to shrink before his sneer as from
a deadly weapon; and like a flash of light some divination of the
truth pierced the Westerner's brain. They were fugitives from justice,
making for the Mexican line. That the man was wounded a single glance
had told him. It was plain to be seen that the wear and tear of
keeping the saddle had been too much for him.

"I acted on an impulse," the girl explained in the same low tone. "I
saw you coming and I didn't know-- hadn't money enough to buy the
team-- besides--"

He took the words out of her mouth when she broke down.

"Besides, I might have happened to be a sheriff. I might be, but then
I'm not."

The traveler stepped forward and kicked the wounded man's revolver
beyond his reach, then swiftly ran a hand over him to make sure he
carried no other gun.

The fellow on the ground eyed him furtively. "What are you going to do
with me?" he growled.

The other addressed himself to the girl, ignoring him utterly.

"What has this man done?"

"He has-- broken out from-- from prison."

"Where?"

"At Yuma."

"Damn you, you're snitching," interrupted the criminal in a scream
that was both wheedling and threatening.

The young man put his foot on the burly neck and calmly ground it into
the dust. Otherwise he paid no attention to him, but held the burning
eyes of the girl that stared at him from a bloodless face.

"What was he in for?"

"For holding up a train."

She had answered in spite of herself, by reason of something
compelling in him that drew the truth from her.

"How long has he been in the penitentiary?"

"Seven years." Then, miserably, she added: "He was weak and fell into
bad company. They led him into it."

"When did he escape?"

"Two days ago. Last night he knocked at my window-- at the window of
the room where I lodge in Fort Lincoln. I had not heard of his escape,
but I took him in. There were horses in the barn. One of them was
mine. I saddled, and after I had dressed his wound we started. He
couldn't get any farther than this."

"Do you live in Fort Lincoln?"

"I came there to teach school. My home was in Wisconsin before."

"You came out here to be near him?"

"Yes. That is, near as I could get a school. I was to have got in the
Tucson schools next year. That's much nearer."

"You visited him at the penitentiary?"

"No. I was going to during the Thanksgiving vacation. Until last night
I had not seen him since he left home. I was a child of seven then."

The Texan looked down at the ruffian under his feet.

"Do you know the road to Mexico by the Arivaca cut-off?"

"Yes."

"Then climb into my rig and hit the trail hard-- burn it up till
you've crossed the line."

The fellow began to whine thanks, but the man above would have none of
them, "I'm giving you this chance for your sister's sake. You won't
make anything of it. You're born for meanness and deviltry. I know
your kind from El Paso to Dawson. But she's game and she's white clear
through, even if she is your sister and a plumb little fool. Can you
walk to the road?" he ended abruptly.

"I think so. It's in my ankle. Some hell-hound gave it me while we
were getting over the wall," the fellow growled.

"Don't blame him. His intentions were good. He meant to blow out your
brains."

The convict cursed vilely, but in the midst of his impotent rage the
other stopped and dragged him to his feet.

"That's enough. You padlock that ugly mouth and light a shuck."

The girl came forward and the man leaned heavily on her as he limped
to the road. The Texan followed with the buckskin she had been riding
and tied it to the back of the road-wagon.

"Give me my purse," the girl said to the convict after they were
seated.

She emptied it and handed the roll of bills it contained to the owner
of the team. He looked at it and at her, then shook his head.

"You'll need it likely. I reckon I can trust you. Schoolmarms are
mostly reliable."

"I had rather pay now," she answered tartly.

"What's the rush?"

"I prefer to settle with you now."

"All right, but I'm in no sweat for my money. My team and the wagon
are worth two hundred and fifty dollars. Put this plug at forty and it
would be high." He jerked his head toward the brush where the other
saddle-horse was. "That leaves me a balance of about two hundred and
ten. Is that fair?"

She bit her lip in vexation. "I expect so, but I haven't that much
with me. Can't I pay this seventy on account?"

"No, ma'am, you can't. All or none." There was a gleam of humor in his
hard eyes. "I reckon you better let me come and collect after you get
back to Fort Lincoln."

She took out a note-book and pencil. "If you will give me your name
and address please."

He smiled hardily at her. "I've clean forgotten them."

There was a warning flash in her disdainful eye.

"Just as you like. My name is Margaret Kinney. I will leave the money
for you at the First National Bank."

She gathered up the rains deftly.

"One moment." He laid a hand on the lines. "I reckon you think I owe
you an apology for what happened when we first met."

A flood of spreading color dyed her cheeks. "I don't think anything
about it."

"Oh, yes, you do," he contradicted. "And you're going to think a heap
more about it. You're going to lay awake nights going over it."

Out of eyes like live coals she gave him one look. "Will you take your
hands from these reins please?"

"Presently. Just now I'm talking and you're listening."

"I don't care to hear any apologies, sir," she said stiffly.

"I'm not offering any," he laughed, yet stung by her words.

"You're merely insulting me again, I presume?"

"Some young women need punishing. I expect you're one."

She handed him the horsewhip, a sudden pulse of passion beating
fiercely in her throat. "Very well. Make an end of it and let me see
the last of you," she challenged.

He cracked the lash expertly so that the horses quivered and would
have started if his strong hand had not tightened on the lines.

The Westerner laughed again. "You're game anyhow."

"When you are quite through with me," she suggested, very quietly.

But he noticed the fury of her deep-pupiled eyes, the turbulent rise
and fall of her bosom.

"I'll not punish you that way this time." And he gave back the whip.

"If you won't use it I will."

The lash flashed up and down, twined itself savagely round his wrist,
and left behind a bracelet of crimson. Startled, the horses leaped
forward. The reins slipped free from his numbed fingers. Miss Kinney
had made her good-by and was descending swiftly into the valley.

The man watched the rig sweep along that branch of the road which led
to the south. Then he looked at his wrist and laughed.

"The plucky little devil! She's a thoroughbred for fair. You bet I'll
make her pay for this. But ain't she got sand in her craw? She's
surely hating me proper." He laughed again in remembrance of the whole
episode, finding in it something that stirred his blood immensely.

After the trap had swept round a curve out of sight he disappeared in
the mesquite and bear-grass, presently returning with the roan that
had been ridden by the escaped convict.

"Whoever would suppose she was the sister of that scurvy scalawag with
jailbird branded all over his hulking hide? He ain't fit to wipe her
little feet on. She's as fine as silk. Think of her going through what
she is to save that coyote, and him as crooked as a dog's hind leg.
There ain't any limit to what a good woman will do for a man when she
thinks he's got a claim on her, more especially if he's a ruffian."

With this bit of philosophic observation he rolled a cigarette and lit
it.

"Him fall into bad company and be led away?" he added in disgust.
"There ain't any worse than him. But he'll work her to the limit
before she finds it out."

Leisurely he swung to the saddle and rode down into the valley of the
San Xavier, which rolled away from his feet in numberless tawny waves
of unfeatured foot-hills and mesas and washes. Almost as far as the
eye could see there stretched a sea of hilltops bathed in sun. Only on
the west were they bounded, by the irregular saw-toothed edge of the
Frenchman Hills, silhouetted against an incomparable blue. For a
stretch of many miles the side of the range was painted scarlet by
millions of poppies splashed broadcast.

"Nature's gone to flower-gardening for fair on the mountains,"
murmured the rider. "What with one thing and another I've got a notion
I'm going to take a liking to this country."

The man was plainly very tired with rapid travel, and about the middle
of the afternoon the young man unsaddled and picketed the animal near
a water-hole. He lay down in the shadow of a cottonwood, flat on his
back, face upturned to the deep cobalt sky. Presently the drowse of
the afternoon crept over him. The slumberous valley grew hazy to his
nodding eyes. The reluctant lids ceased to open and he was fast
asleep.

  CHAPTER II

 LIEUTENANT FRASER INTERFERES.

The sun had declined almost to a saddle in the Cuesta del Burro when
the sleeper reopened his eyes. Even before he had shaken himself free
of sleep he was uneasily aware of something wrong. Hazily the sound of
voices drifted to him across an immense space. Blurred figures crossed
before his unfocused gaze.

The first thing he saw clearly was the roan, still grazing in the
circle of its picket-rope. Beside the bronco were two men looking the
animal over critically.

"Been going some," he heard one remark, pointing at the same time to
the sweat-stains that streaked the shoulders and flanks.

"If he had me on his back he'd still be burning the wind, me being in
his boots," returned the second, with a grating laugh, jerking his
head toward the sleeper. "Whatever led the durned fool to stop this
side of the line beats me."

"If he was hiking for Chihuahua he's been hitting a mighty crooked
trail. I don't savvy it, him knowing the country as well as they say
he does," the first speaker made answer.

The traveler's circling eye now discovered two more men, each of them
covering him with a rifle. A voice from the rear assured him there was
also a fifth member to the party.

"Look out! He's awake," it warned.

The young man's hand inadvertently moved toward his revolver-butt.
This drew a sharp imperative order from one of the men in front.

"Throw up your hands, and damn quick!"

"You seem to have the call, gentlemen," he smiled. "Would you mind
telling me what it's all about?"

"You know what it's all about as well as we do. Collect his gun, Tom."

"This hold-up business seems to be a habit in this section. Second
time to-day I've been the victim of it," said the victim easily.

"It will be the last," retorted one of the men grimly.

"If you're after the mazuma you've struck a poor bank."

"You've got your nerve," cried one of the men in a rage; and another
demanded: "Where did you get that hawss?"

"Why, I got it--" The young man stopped in the middle of his sentence.
His jaw clamped and his eyes grew hard. "I expect you better explain
what right you got to ask that question."

The man laughed without cordiality. "Seeing as I have owned it three
years I allow I have some right."

"What's the use of talking? He's the man we want, broke in another
impatiently.

"Who is the man you want?" asked their prisoner.

"You're the man we want, Jim Kinney."

"Wrong guess. My name is Larry Neill. I'm from the Panhandle and I've
never been in this part of the country till two days ago."

"You may have a dozen names. We don't care what you call yourself. Of
course you would deny being the man we're after. But that don't go
with us."

"All right. Take me back to Fort Lincoln, or take me to the prison
officials. They will tell you whether I am the man."

The leader of the party pounced on his slip. "Who mentioned prison?
Who told you we wanted an escaped prisoner?"

"He's give himself away," triumphed the one edged Tom. "I guess that
clinches it. He's riding Maloney's hawss. He's wounded; so's the man
we want. He answers the description-- gray eyes, tall, slim, muscular.
Same gun-- automatic Colt. Tell you there's nothin' to it, Duffield."

"If you're not Kinney, how come you with this hawss? He stole it from
a barn in Fort Lincoln last night. That's known," said the leader,
Duffield.

The imperilled man thought of the girl bing toward the border with her
brother and the remembrance padlocked his tongue.

"Take me to the proper authorities and I'll answer questions. But,
I'll not talk here. What's the use? You don't believe a word I say."

"You spoke the truth that time," said one.

"If you ever want to do any explaining now's the hour," added another.

"I'll do mine later, gentlemen."

They looked at each other and one of them spoke.

"It will be too late to explain then."

"Too late?"

Some inkling of the man's hideous meaning seared him and ran like an
ice-blast through him.

"You've done all the meanness you'll ever do in this world. Poor Dave
Long is the last man you'll ever kill. We're going to do justice right
now."

"Dave Long! I never heard of him," the prisoner repeated mechanically.
"Good God, do you think I'm a murderer?"

One of the men thrust himself forward. "We know it. Y'u and that
hellish partner of yours shot him while he was locking the gate. But
y'u made a mistake when y'u come to Fort Lincoln. He lived there
before he went to be a guard at the Arizona penitentiary. I'm his
brother. These gentlemen are his neighbors. Y'u're not going back to
prison. Y'u're going to stay right here under this cottonwood."

If the extraordinary menace of the man appalled Neill he gave no sign
of it. His gray eye passed from one to another of them quietly without
giving any sign of the impotent tempest raging within him.

"You're going to lynch me then?"

"Y'u've called the turn."

"Without giving me a chance to prove my innocence?"

"Without giving y'u a chance to escape or sneak back to the
penitentiary."

The thing was horribly unthinkable. The warm mellow afternoon sunshine
wrapped them about. The horses grazed with quiet unconcern. One of
these hard-faced frontiersmen was chewing tobacco with machine-like
regularity. Another was rolling a cigarette. There was nothing of
dramatic effect. Not a man had raised his voice. But Neill knew there
was no appeal. He had come to the end of the passage through a
horrible mistake. He raged in bitter resentment against his fate,
against these men who stood so quietly about him ready to execute it,
most of all against the girl who had let him sacrifice himself by
concealing the vital fact that her brother had murdered a guard to
effect his escape. Fool that he had been, he had stumbled into a trap,
and she had let him do it without a word of warning. Wild, chaotic
thoughts crowded his brain furiously.

But the voice with which he addressed them was singularly even and
colorless.

"I am a stranger to this country. I was born in Tennessee, brought up
in the Panhandle. I'm an irrigation engineer by profession. This is my
vacation. I'm headed now for the Mal Pais mines. Friends of mine are
interested in a property there with me and I have been sent to look
the ground over and make a report. I never heard of Kinney till
to-day. You've got the wrong man, gentlemen."

"We'll risk it," laughed one brutally. "Bring that riata, Tom."

Neill did not struggle or cry out frantically. He stood motionless
while they adjusted the rope round his bronzed throat. They had judged
him for a villain; they should at least know him a man. So he stood
there straight and lithe, wide-shouldered and lean-flanked, a man in a
thousand. Not a twitch of the well-packed muscles, not a quiver of the
eyelash nor a swelling of the throat betrayed any fear. His cool eyes
were quiet and steady.

"If you want to leave any message for anybody I'll see it's
delivered," promised Duffield.

"I'll not trouble you with any."

"Just as you like."

"He didn't give poor Dave any time for messages," cried Tom Long
bitterly.

"That's right," assented another with a curse.

It was plain to the victim they were spurring their nerves to
hardihood.

"Who's that?" cried one of the men, pointing to a rider galloping
toward them.

The newcomer approached rapidly, covered by their weapons, and flung
himself from his pony as he dragged it to a halt beside the group.

"Steve Fraser," cried Duffield in surprise, and added, "He's an
officer in the rangers."

"Right, gentlemen. Come to claim my prisoner," said the ranger
promptly.

"Y'u can't have him, Steve. We took him and he's got to hang."

The lieutenant of rangers shook his dark curly head.

"Won't do, Duffield. Won't do at all," he said decisively. "You'd
ought to know law's on top in Texas these days."

Tom Long shouldered his way to the front. "Law! Where was the law when
this ruffian Kinney shot down my poor brother Dave? I guess a rope and
a cottonwood's good enough law for him. Anyhow, that's what he gits."

Fraser, hard-packed, lithe, and graceful, laid a friendly hand on the
other's shoulder and smiled sunnily at him.

"I know how you feel, Tom. We all thought a heap of Dave and you're
his brother. But Dave died for the law. Both you boys have always
stood for order. He'd be troubled if he knew you were turned enemy to
it on his account."

"I'm for justice, Steve. This skunk deserves death and I'm going to
see he gits it."

"No, Tom."

"I say yes. Y'u ain't sitting in this game, Steve."

"I reckon I'll have to take a hand then."

The ranger's voice was soft and drawling, but his eyes were
indomitably steady. Throughout the Southwest his reputation for
fearlessness was established even among a population singularly
courageous. The audacity of his daredevil recklessness was become a
proverb.

"We got a full table. Better ride away and forget it," said another.

"That ain't what I'm paid for, Jack," returned Fraser good-naturedly.
"Better turn him over to me peaceable, boys. He'll get what's coming
to him all right."

"He'll get it now, Steve, without any help of yours. We don't aim to
allow any butting in."

"Don't you?"

There was a flash of steel as the ranger dived forward. Next instant
he and the prisoner stood with their backs to the cottonwood, a
revolver having somehow leaped from its scabbard to his hand. His
hunting-knife had sheared at a stroke the riata round the engineer's
neck.

"Take it easy, boys," urged Fraser, still in his gentle drawl, to the
astonished vigilantes whom his sudden sally had robbed of their
victim. "Think about it twice. We'll all be a long time dead. No use
in hurrying the funerals."

Nevertheless he recognized battle as inevitable. Friends of his though
they were, he knew these sturdy plainsmen would never submit to be
foiled in their purpose by one man. In the momentary silence before
the clash the quiet voice of the prisoner made itself heard.

"Just a moment, gentlemen. I don't want you spilling lead over me. I'm
the wrong man, and I can prove it if you'll give me time. Here's the
key to my room at the hotel in San Antonio. In my suit-case you'll
find letters that prove--"

"We don't need them. I've got proof right here," cut in Fraser,
remembering.

He slipped a hand into his coat pocket and drew out two photographs.
"Boys, here are the pictures and descriptions of the two men that
escaped from Yuma the other day. I hadn't had time to see this
gentleman before he spoke, being some busy explaining the situation to
you, but a blind jackass could see he don't favor either Kinney or
Struve, You're sure barking up the wrong tree."

The self-appointed committee for the execution of justice and the man
from the Panhandle looked the prison photographs over blankly. Between
the hard, clean-cut face of their prisoner and those that looked at
them from the photographs it was impossible to find any resemblance.
Duffield handed the prints back with puzzled chagrin.

"I guess you're right, Steve. But I'd like this gentleman to explain
how come he to be riding the horse one of these miscreants stole from
Maloney's barn last night."

Steve looked at the prisoner. "It's your spiel, friend," he said.

"All right. I'll tell you some facts. Just as I was coming down from
the Roskruge range this mo'ning I was held up for my team. One of
these fellows-- the one called Kinney-- had started from Fort Lincoln
on this roan here, but he was wounded and broke down. There was some
gun-play, and he gave me this scratch on the cheek. The end of it was
that he took my team and left me with his worn-out bronc. I plugged on
all day with the hawss till about three mebbe, then seeing it was all
in I unsaddled and picketed. I lay down and dropped asleep. Next I
knew the necktie-party was in session."

"What time was it y'u met this fellow Kinney?" asked Long sharply.

"Must have been about nine or nine-thirty I judge."

"And it's five now. That's eight hours' start, and four more before we
can cut his trail on Roskruge. By God, we've lost him!"

"Looks like," agreed another ruefully.

"Make straight for the Arivaca cut-off and you ought to stand a show,"
suggested Fraser.

"That's right. If we ride all night, might beat him to it" Each of the
five contributed a word of agreement.

Five minutes later the Texan and the ranger watched a dust-cloud
drifting to the south. In it was hidden the posse disappearing over
the hilltop.

Steve grinned. "I hate to disappoint the boys. They're so plumb
anxious. But I reckon I'll strike the telephone line and send word to
Moreno for one of the rangers to cut out after Kinney. Going my way,
seh?"

"If you're going mine."

"I reckon I am. And just to pass the time you might tell me the real
story of that hold-up while we ride."

"The real story?"

"Well, I don't aim to doubt your word, but I reckon you forgot to tell
some of it." He turned on the other his gay smile. "For instance, seh,
you ain't asking me to believe that you handed over your rig to Kinney
so peaceful and that he went away and clean forgot to unload from you
that gun you pack."

The eyes of the two met and looked into each other's as clear and
straight as Texas sunshine. Slowly Neill's relaxed into a smile.

"No, I won't ask you to believe that. I owe you something because you
saved my life--"

"Forget it," commanded the lieutenant crisply.

"And I can't do less than tell you the whole story."

He told it, yet not the whole of it either; for there was one detail
he omitted completely. It had to do with the cause for existence of
the little black-and-blue bruise under his right eye and the purple
ridge that seamed his wrist. Nor with all his acuteness could Stephen
Fraser guess that the one swelling had been made by a gold ring on the
clenched fist of an angry girl held tight in Larry Neill's arms, the
other by the lash of a horsewhip wielded by the same young woman.

  CHAPTER III

 A DISCOVERY

The roan, having been much refreshed by a few hours on grass, proved
to be a good traveller. The two men took a road-gait and held it
steadily till they reached a telephone-line which stretched across the
desert and joined two outposts of civilization. Steve strapped on his
climbing spurs and went up a post lightly with his test outfit. In a
few minutes he had Moreno on the wire and was in touch with one of his
rangers.

"Hello! This you, Ferguson? This is Fraser. No, Fraser-- Lieutenant
Fraser. Yes. How many of the boys can you get in touch with right
away? Two? Good. I want you to cover the Arivaca cut-off. Kinney is
headed that way in a rig. His sister is with him. She is not to be
injured under any circumstances. Understand? Wire me at the Mal Pais
mines to-morrow your news. By the way, Tom Long and some of the boys
are headed down that way with notions of lynching Kinney. Dodge them
if you can and rush your man up to the Mal Pais. Good-bye."

"Suppose they can't dodge them?" ventured Neill after Steve had
rejoined him.

"I reckon they can. If not-- well, my rangers are good boys; I expect
they won't give up a prisoner."

"I'm right glad to find you are going to the Mal Pais mines with me,
lieutenant. I wasn't expecting company on the way."

"I'll bet a dollar Mex against two plunks gold that you're wondering
whyfor I'm going."

Larry laughed. "You're right. I was wondering."

"Well, then, it's this way. What with all these boys on Kinney's trail
he's as good as rounded up. Fact is, Kinney's only a weak sister
anyhow. He turned State's witness at the trial, and it was his
testimony that convicted Struve. I know something about this because I
happened to be the man that caught Struve. I had just joined the
rangers. It was my first assignment. The other three got away. Two of
them escaped and the third was not tried for lack of sufficient
evidence. Now, then: Kinney rides the rods from Yuma to Marfa and is
now or had ought to be somewhere in this valley between Posa Buena and
Taylor's ranch. But where is Struve, the hardier ruffian of the two?
He ain't been seen since they broke out. He sure never reached Ft.
Lincoln. My notion is that he dropped off the train in the darkness
about Casa Grande, then rolled his tail for the Mal Pais country. Your
eyes are asking whys mighty loud, my friend; and my answer is that
there's a man up there mebbe who has got to hide Struve if he shows
up. That's only a guess, but it looks good to me. This man was the
brains of the whole outfit, and folks say that he's got cached the
whole haul the gang made from that S. P. hold-up. What's more, he
scattered gold so liberal that his name wasn't even mentioned at the
trial. He's a big man now, a millionaire copper king and into
gold-mines up to the hocks. In the Southwest those things happen. It
doesn't always do to look too closely at a man's past.

"We'll say Struve drops in on him and threatens to squeak. Mebbe he
has got evidence; mebbe he hasn't. Anyhow, our big duck wants to
forget the time he was wearing a mask and bending a six-gun for a
living. Also and moreover, he's right anxious to have other folks get
a chance to forget. From what I can hear he's clean mashed on some
girl at Amarillo, or maybe it's Fort Lincoln. See what a twist
Strove's got on him if he can slip into the Mal Pais country on the q.
t."

"And you're going up there to look out for him?"

"I'm going in to take a casual look around. There's no telling what a
man might happen onto accidentally if he travels with his ear to the
ground."

The other nodded. He could now understand easily why Fraser was going
into the Mal Pais country, but he could not make out why the ranger,
naturally a man who lived under his own hat and kept his own counsel,
had told him so much as he had. The officer shortly relieved his mind
on this point.

"I may need help while I'm there. May I call on you if I do, seh?"

Neill felt his heart warm toward this hard-faced, genial frontiersman,
who knew how to judge so well the timbre of a casual acquaintance.

"You sure may, lieutenant."

"Good. I'll count on you then."

So, in these few words, the compact of friendship and alliance was
sealed between them. Each of them was strangely taken with the other,
but it is not the way of the Anglo-Saxon fighting man to voice his
sentiment. Though each of them admired the stark courage and the
flawless fortitude he knew to dwell in the other, impassivity sat on
their faces like an ice-mask. For this is the hall-mark of the
Southwest, that a man must love and hate with the same unchanging face
of iron, save only when a woman is in consideration.

They were to camp that night by Cottonwood Spring, and darkness caught
them still some miles from their camp. They were on no road, but were
travelling across country through washes and over countless hills. The
ranger led the way, true as an arrow, even after velvet night had
enveloped them.

"It must be right over this mesa among the cottonwoods you see rising
from that arroyo," he announced at last.

He had scarcely spoken before they struck a trail that led them direct
to the spring. But as they were descending this in a circle Fraser's
horse shied.

"Hyer you, Pinto! What's the matter with--"

The ranger cut his sentence in two and slid from the saddle. When his
companion reached him and drew rein the ranger was bending over a dark
mass stretched across the trail. He looked up quietly.

"Man's body," he said briefly.

"Dead?"

"Yes."

Neill dismounted and came forward. The moon-crescent was up by now and
had lit the country with a chill radiance. The figure was dressed in
the coarse striped suit of a convict.

"I don't savvy this play," Fraser confessed softly to himself.

"Do you know him?"

"Suppose you look at him and see if you know him."

Neill looked into the white face and shook his head.

"No, I don't know him, but I suppose it is Struve."

From his pocket the ranger produced a photograph and handed it to him.

"Hyer, I'll strike a match and you'll see better."

The match flared up in the slight breeze and presently went out, but
not before Neill had seen that it was the face of the man who lay
before them.

"Did you see the name under the picture, seh?"

"No."

Another match flared and the man from the Panhandle read a name, but
it was not the one he had expected to see. The words printed there
were "James Kinney."

"I don't understand. This ain't Kinney. He is a heavy-set man with a
villainous face. There's some mistake."

"There ce'tainly is, but not at this end of the line. This is Kinney
all right. I've seen him at Yuma. He was heading for the Mal Pais
country and he died on the way. See hyer. Look at these soaked
bandages. He's been wounded-- shot mebbe-- and the wound broke out on
him again so that he bled to death."

"It's all a daze to me. Who is the other man if he isn't Kinney?"

"We're coming to that. I'm beginning to see daylight," said Steve,
gently. "Let's run over this thing the way it might be. You've got to
keep in mind that this man was weak, one of those spineless fellows
that stronger folks lead around by the nose. Well, they make their
getaway at Yuma after Struve has killed a guard. That killing of Dave
Long shakes Kinney up a lot, he being no desperado but only a poor
lost-dog kind of a guy. Struve notices it and remembers that this
fellow weakened before. He makes up his mind to take no chances. From
that moment he watches for a chance to make an end of his pardner. At
Casa Grande they drop off the train they're riding and cut across
country toward the Mal Pais. Mebbe they quarrel or mebbe Struve gets
his chance and takes it. But after he has shot his man he sees he has
made a mistake. Perhaps they were seen travelling in that direction.
Anyhow, he is afraid the body will be found since he can't bury it
right. He changes his plan and takes a big chance; cuts back to the
track, boards a freight, and reaches Fort Lincoln."

"My God!" cried the other, startled for once out of his calm.

The officer nodded. "You're on the trail right enough. I wish we were
both wrong, but we ain't."

"But surely she would have known he wasn't her brother, surely--"

The ranger shook his head. "She hadn't seen the black sheep since she
was a kid of about seven. How would she know what he looked like? And
Struve was primed with all the facts he had heard Kinney blat out time
and again. She wasn't suspecting any imposition and he worked her to a
fare-you-well."

Larry Neill set his teeth on a wave of icy despair.

"And she's in that devil's power. She would be as safe in a den of
rattlers. To think that I had my foot on his neck this mo'ning and
didn't break it."

"She's safe so long as she is necessary to him. She's in deadly peril
as soon as he finds her one witness too many. If he walks into my
boys' trap at the Arivaca cut-off, all right. If not, God help her!
I've shut the door to Mexico and safety in his face. He'll strike back
for the Mal Pais country. It's his one chance, and he'll want to
travel light and fast."

"If he starts back Tom Long's party may get him."

"That's one more chance for her, but it's a slim one. He'll cut
straight across country; they're following the trail. No, seh, our
best bet is my rangers. They'd ought to land him, too."

"Oh, ought to," derided the other impatiently. "Point is, if they
don't. How are we going to save her? You know this country. I don't."

"Don't tear your shirt, amigo," smiled the ranger. "We'll arrive
faster if we don't go off half-cocked. Let's picket the broncs, amble
down to the spring, and smoke a cigaret. We've got to ride twenty
miles for fresh hawsses and these have got to have a little rest."

They unsaddled and picketed, then strolled to the spring.

"I've been thinking that maybe we have made a mistake. Isn't it
possible the man with Miss Kinney is not Struve?" asked Neill.

"That's easy proved. You saw him this mo'ning." The lieutenant went
down into his pocket once more for a photograph. "Does this favor the
man with Miss Kinney?"

Under the blaze of another match, shielded by the ranger s hands,
Larry looked into the scowling, villainous face he had seen earlier in
the day. There could be no mistaking those leering, cruel eyes nor the
ratlike, shifty look of the face, not to mention the long scar across
it. His heart sank.

"It's the man."

"Don't you blame yourself for not putting his lights out. How could
you tell who he was?"

"I knew he was a ruffian, hide and hair."

"But you thought he was her brother and that's a whole lot different.
What do you say to grubbing here? We've got to go to the Halle ranch
for hawsses and it's a long jog."

They lit a fire and over their coffee discussed plans. In the midst of
these the Southerner picked up idly a piece of wrapping-paper. Upon it
was pencilled a wavering scrawl:

Bleeding has broke out again. Can't stop it. Struve shot me and left
me for dead ten miles back. I didn't kill the guard or know he meant
to. J. KINNEY.

Neill handed the paper to the ranger, who read it through, folded it,
and gave it back to the other.

"Keep that paper. We may need it." His grave eyes went up the trail to
where the dark figure lay motionless in the cold moonlight. "Well,
he's come to the end of the trail-- the only end he could have
reached. He wasn't strong enough to survive as a bad man. Poor devil!"

They buried him in a clump of cottonwoods and left a little pile of
rocks to mark the spot.

  CHAPTER IV

 LOST!

After her precipitate leave-taking of the man whose team she had
bought or borrowed, Margaret Kinney nursed the fires of her
indignation in silence, banking them for future use against the time
when she should meet him again in the event that should ever happen.
She brought her whip-lash snapping above the backs of the horses, and
there was that in the supple motion of the small strong wrist which
suggested that nothing would have pleased her more than having this
audacious Texan there in place of the innocent animals. For whatever
of inherited savagery lay latent in her blood had been flogged to the
surface by the circumstances into which she had been thrust. Never in
all her placid life had she known the tug of passion any closer than
from across the footlights of a theatre.

She had had, to be sure, one stinging shame, but it had been buried in
far-away Arizona, quite beyond the ken of the convention-bound people
of the little Wisconsin town where she dwelt. But within the past
twelve hours Fate had taken hold of her with both hands and thrust her
into Life. She sensed for the first time its roughness, its nakedness,
its tragedy. She had known the sensations of a hunted wild beast, the
flush of shame for her kinship to this coarse ruffian by her side, and
the shock of outraged maiden modesty at kisses ravished from her by
force. The teacher hardly knew herself for the same young woman who
but yesterday was engrossed in multiplication tables and third
readers.

A sinister laugh from the man beside her brought the girl back to the
present.

She looked at him and then looked quickly away again. There was
something absolutely repulsive in the creature-- in the big ears that
stood out from the close-cropped head, in the fishy eyes that saw
everything without ever looking directly at anything, in the crooked
mouth with its irregular rows of stained teeth from which several were
missing. She had often wondered about her brother, but never at the
worst had she imagined anything so bad as this. The memory would be
enough to give one the shudders for years.

"Guess I ain't next to all that happened there in the mesquite," he
sneered, with a lift of the ugly lip.

She did not look at him. She did not speak. There seethed in her a
loathing and a disgust beyond expression.

"Guess you forgot that a fellow can sometimes hear even when he can't
see. Since I'm chaperooning you I'll make out to be there next time
you meet a good-looking lady-killer. Funny, the difference it makes,
being your brother. You ain't seen me since you was a kid, but you
plumb forgot to kiss me."

There was a note in his voice she had not heard before, some hint of
leering ribaldry in the thick laugh that for the first time stirred
unease in her heart. She did not know that the desperate, wild-animal
fear in him, so overpowering that everything else had been pushed to
the background, had obscured certain phases of him that made her
presence here such a danger as she could not yet conceive. That fear
was now lifting, and the peril loomed imminent.

He put his arm along the back of the seat and grinned at her from his
loose-lipped mouth.

"But o' course it ain't too late to begin now, my dearie."

Her fearless level eyes met squarely his shifty ones and read there
something she could dread without understanding, something that was an
undefined sacrilege of her sweet purity. For woman-like her instinct
leaped beyond reason.

"Take down your arm," she ordered.

"Oh, I don't know, sis. I reckon your brother--"

"You're no brother of mine," she broke in. "At most it is an accident
of birth I disown. I'll have no relationship with you of any sort."

"Is that why you're driving with me to Mexico?" he jeered.

"I made a mistake in trying to save you. If it were to do over again I
should not lift a hand."

"You wouldn't, eh?"

There was something almost wolfish in the facial malignity that
distorted him.

"Not a finger."

"Perhaps you'd give me up now if you had a chance?"

"I would if I did what was right."

"And you'd sure want to do what was right," he snarled.

"Take down your arm," she ordered again, a dangerous glitter in her
eyes.

He thrust his evil face close to hers and showed his teeth in a blind
rage that forgot everything else.

"Listen here, you little locoed baby. I got something to tell you
that'll make your hair curl. You're right, I ain't your brother. I'm
Nick Struve-- Wolf Struve if you like that better. I lied you into
believing me your brother, who ain't ever been anything but a
skim-milk quitter. He's dead back there in the cactus somewhere, and I
killed him!"

Terror flooded her eyes. Her very breathing hung suspended. She gazed
at him in a frozen fascination of horror.

"Killed him because he gave me away seven years ago and was gittin'
ready to round on me again. Folks don't live long that play Wolf
Struve for a lamb. A wolf! That's what I am, a born wolf, and don't
you forget it."

The fact itself did not need his words for emphasis. He fairly reeked
the beast of prey. She had to nerve herself against faintness. She
must not swoon. She dared not.

"Think you can threaten to give me up, do you? 'Fore I'm through with
you you'll wish you had never been born. You'll crawl on your knees
and beg me to kill you."

Such a devil of wickedness she had never seen in human eyes before.
The ruthlessness left no room for appeal. Unless the courage to tame
him lay in her she was lost utterly.

He continued his exultant bragging, blatantly, ferociously.

"I didn't tell you about my escape; how a guard tried to stop me and I
put the son of a gun out of business. There's a price on my head. D'ye
think I'm the man to give you a chance to squeal on me? D'ye think
I'll let a pink-and-white chit send me back to be strangled?" he
screamed.

The stark courage in her rose to the crisis. Not an hour before she
had seen the Texan cow him. He was of the kind would take the whip
whiningly could she but wield it. Her scornful eyes fastened on him
contemptuously, chiseled into the cur heart of him.

"What will you do?" she demanded, fronting the issue that must sooner
or later rise.

The raucous jangle of his laugh failed to disturb the steadiness of
her gaze. To reassure himself of his mastery he began to bluster, to
threaten, turning loose such a storm of vile abuse as she had never
heard. He was plainly working his nerve up to the necessary pitch.

In her first terror she had dropped the reins. Her hands had slipped
unconsciously under the lap-robe. Now one of them touched something
chilly on the seat beside her. She almost gasped her relief. It was
the selfsame revolver with which she had tried to hold up the Texan.

In the midst of Struve's flood of invective the girl's hand leaped
quickly from the lap-robe. A cold muzzle pressed against his cheek
brought the convict's outburst to an abrupt close.

"If you move I'll fire," she said quietly.

For a long moment their gazes gripped, the deadly clear eyes of the
young woman and the furtive ones of the miscreant. Underneath the robe
she felt a stealthy movement, and cried out quickly: "Hands up!"

With a curse he threw his arms into the air.

"Jump out! Don't lower your hands!"

"My ankle," he whined.

"Jump!"

His leap cleared the wheel and threw him to the ground. She caught up
the whip and slashed wildly at the horses. They sprang forward in a
panic, flying wildly across the open plain. Margaret heard a revolver
bark twice. After that she was so busy trying to regain control of the
team that she could think of nothing else. The horses were young and
full of spirit, so that she had all she could do to keep the trap from
being upset. It wound in and out among the hills, taking perilous
places safely to her surprise, and was at last brought to a stop only
by the narrowing of a draw into which the animals had bolted.

They were quiet now beyond any chance of farther runaway, even had it
been possible. Margaret dropped the lines on the dashboard and began
to sob, at first in slow deep breaths and then in quicker uneven ones.
Plucky as she was, the girl had had about all her nerves could stand
for one day. The strain of her preparation for flight, the long night
drive, and the excitement of the last two hours were telling on her in
a hysterical reaction.

She wept herself out, dried her eyes with dabs of her little kerchief,
and came back to a calm consideration of her situation. She must get
back to Fort Lincoln as soon as possible, and she must do it without
encountering the convict. For in the course of the runaway the
revolver had been jolted from the trap.

Not quite sure in which direction lay the road, she got out from the
trap, topped the hill to her right, and looked around. She saw in all
directions nothing but rolling hilltops, merging into each other even
to the horizon's edge. In her wild flight among these hills she had
lost count of direction. She had not yet learned how to know north
from south by the sun, and if she had it would have helped but little
since she knew only vaguely the general line of their travel.

She felt sure that from the top of the next rise she could locate the
road, but once there she was as uncertain as before. Before giving up
she breasted a third hill to the summit. Still no signs of the road.
Reluctantly she retraced her steps, and at the foot of the hill was
uncertain whether she should turn to right or left. Choosing the left,
from the next height she could see nothing of the team. She was not
yet alarmed. It was ridiculous to suppose that she was lost. How could
she be when she was within three or four hundred yards of the rig? She
would cut across the shoulder into the wash and climb the hillock
beyond. For behind it the team must certainly be.

But at her journey's end her eyes were gladdened by no sight of the
horses. Every draw was like its neighbor, every rolling rise a replica
of the next. The truth came home to a sinking heart. She was lost in
one of the great deserts of Texas. She would wander for days as others
had, and she would die in the end of starvation and thirst. Nobody
would know where to look for her, since she had told none where she
was going. Only yesterday at her boarding-house she had heard a young
man tell how a tenderfoot had been found dead after he had wandered
round and round in intersecting circles. She sank down and gave
herself up to despair.

But not for long. She was too full of grit to give up without a long
fight. How many hours she wandered Margaret Kinney did not know. The
sun was high in the heavens when she began. It had given place to
flooding moonlight long before her worn feet and aching heart gave up
the search for some human landmark. Once at least she must have slept,
for she stared up from a spot where she had sunk down to look up into
a starry sky that was new to her.

The moon had sailed across the vault and grown chill and faint with
dawn before she gave up, completely exhausted, and when her eyes
opened again it was upon a young day fresh and sweet. She knew by this
time hunger and an acute thirst. As the day increased, this last she
knew must be a torment of swollen tongue and lime-kiln throat.
Yesterday she had cried for help till her voice had failed. A dumb
despair had now driven away her terror.

And then into the awful silence leaped a sound like a messenger of
hope. It was a shot, so close that she could see the smoke rise from
an arroyo near. She ran forward till she could look down into it and
caught sight of a man with a dead bird in his hand. He had his back
toward her and was stooping over a fire. Slithering down over the
short dry grass, she was upon him almost before she could stop.

"I've been lost all night and all yesterday," she sobbed.

He snatched at the revolver lying beside him and whirled like a flash
as if to meet an attack. The girl's pumping heart seemed to stand
still. The man snarling at her was the convict Struve.

  CHAPTER V

 LARRY NEILL TO THE RESCUE

The snarl gave way slowly to a grim more malign than his open
hostility.

"So you've been lost! And now you're found-- come safe back to your
loving brother. Ain't that luck for you? Hunted all over Texas till
you found him, eh? And it's a powerful big State, too."

She caught sight of something that made her forget all else.

"Have you got water in that canteen?" she asked, her parched eyes
staring at it.

"Yes, dearie."

"Give it me."

He squatted tailor-fashion on the ground, put the canteen between his
knees, and shoved his teeth in a crooked grin.

"Thirsty?"

"I'm dying for a drink"

"You look like a right lively corpse."

"Give it to me."

"Will you take it now or wait till you get it?"

"My throat's baked. I want water," she said hoarsely.

"Most folks want a lot they never get."

She walked toward him with her hand outstretched.

"I tell you I've got to have it."

He laughed evilly. "Water's at a premium right now. Likely there ain't
enough here to get us both out of this infernal hole alive. Yes, it's
sure at a premium."

He let his eye drift insolently over her and take stock of his prey,
in the same feline way of a cat with a mouse, gloating over her
distress and the details of her young good looks. His tainted gaze got
the faint pure touch of color in her face, the reddish tinge of her
wavy brown hair, the desirable sweetness of her rounded maidenhood. If
her step dragged, if dusky hollows shadowed her lids, if the native
courage had been washed from the hopeless eyes, there was no spring of
manliness hid deep within him that rose to refresh her exhaustion. No
pity or compunction stirred at her sweet helplessness.

"Do you want my money?" she asked wearily.

"I'll take that to begin with."

She tossed him her purse. "There should be seventy dollars there. May
I have a drink now?"

"Not yet, my dear. First you got to come up to me and put your arms
round--"

He broke off with a curse, for she was flying toward the little circle
of cottonwoods some forty yards away. She had caught a glimpse of the
water-hole and was speeding for it.

"Come back here," he called, and in a rage let fly a bullet after her.

She paid no heed, did not stop till she reached the spring and threw
herself down full length to drink, to lave her burnt face, to drink
again of the alkali brackish water that trickled down her throat like
nectar incomparably delicious.

She was just rising to her feet when Struve hobbled up.

"Don't you think you can play with me, missie. When I give the word
you stop in your tracks, and when I say 'Jump!' step lively."

She did not answer. Her head was lifted in a listening attitude, as if
to catch some sound that came faintly to her from a distance.

"You're mine, my beauty, to do with as I please, and don't you forget
it."

She did not hear him. Her ears were attuned to voices floating to her
across the desert. Of course she was beginning to wander in her mind.
She knew that. There could be no other human beings in this sea of
loneliness. They were alone; just they two, the degenerate ruffian and
his victim. Still, it was strange. She certainly had imagined the
murmur of people talking. It must be the beginning of delirium.

"Do you hear me?" screamed Struve, striking her on the cheek with his
fist. "I'm your master and you're my squaw."

She did not cringe as he had expected, nor did she show fight. Indeed
the knowledge of the blow seemed scarcely to have penetrated her
mental penumbra. She still had that strange waiting aspect, but her
eyes were beginning to light with new-born hope. Something in her
manner shook the man's confidence; a dawning fear swept away his
bluster. He, too, was now listening intently.

Again the low murmur, beyond a possibility of doubt. Both of them
caught it. The girl opened her throat in a loud cry for help. An
answering shout came back clear and strong. Struve wheeled and started
up the arroyo, bending in and out among the cactus till he disappeared
over the brow.

Two horsemen burst into sight, galloping down the steep trail at
breakneck speed, flinging down a small avalanche of shale with them.
One of them caught sight of the girl, drew up so short that his horse
slid to its haunches, and leaped from the saddle in a cloud of dust.

He ran toward her, and she to him, hands out to meet her rescuer.

"Why didn't you come sooner? I've waited so long," she cried
pathetically, as his arms went about her.

"You poor lamb! Thank God we're in time!" was all he could say.

Then for the first time in her life she fainted.

The other rider lounged forward, a hat in his hand that he had just
picked up close to the fire.

"We seem to have stampeded part of this camping party. I'll just take
a run up this hill and see if I can't find the missing section and
persuade it to stay a while. I don't reckon you need me hyer, do you?"
he grinned, with a glance at Neill and his burden.

"All right. You'll find me here when you get back, Fraser," the other
answered.

Larry carried the girl to the water-hole and set her down beside it.
He sprinkled her face with water, and presently her lids trembled and
fluttered open. She lay there with her head on his arm and looked at
him quite without surprise.

"How did you find me?"

"Mainly luck. We followed your trail to where we found the rig. After
that it was guessing where the needle was in the haystack It just
happened we were cutting across country to water when we heard a
shot."

"That must have been when he fired at me," she said.

"My God! Did he shoot at you?"

"Yes. Where is he now?" She shuddered.

"Cutting over the hills with Steve after him."

"Steve?"

"My friend, Lieutenant Fraser. He is an officer in the ranger force."

"Oh!" She relapsed into a momentary silence before she said: "He isn't
my brother at all. He is a murderer." She gave a sudden little moan of
pain as memory pierced her of what he had said. "He bragged to me that
he had killed my brother. He meant to kill me, I think."

"Sho! It doesn't matter what the coyote meant. It's all over now.
You're with friends."

A warm smile lit his steel-blue eyes, softened the lines of his lean,
hard face. Never had shipwrecked mariner come to safer harbor than
she. She knew that this slim, sun-bronzed Westerner was a man's man,
that strength and nerve inhabited his sinewy frame. He would fight for
her because she was a woman as long as he could stand and see.

A touch of color washed back into her cheeks, a glow of courage into
her heart. "Yes, it's all over. The weary, weary hours-- and the
fear-- and the pain-- and the dreadful thirst-- and worst of all,
him!"

She began to cry softly, hiding her face in his coat-sleeve.

"I'm crying because-- it's all over. I'm a little fool, just as-- as
you said I was."

"I didn't know you then," he smiled. "I'm right likely to make
snap-shot judgments that are 'way off."

"You knew me well enough to--" She broke off in the middle, bathed in
a flush of remembrance that brought her coppery head up from his arm
instantly.

"Be careful. You're dizzy yet."

"I'm all right now, thank you," she answered, her embarrassed profile
haughtily in the air. "But I'm ravenous for something to eat. It's
been twenty-four hours since I've had a bite. That's why I'm weepy and
faint. I should think you might make a snap-shot judgment that
breakfast wouldn't hurt me."

He jumped up contritely. "That's right. What a goat I am!"

His long, clean stride carried him over the distance that separated
him from his bronco. Out of the saddle-bags he drew some sandwiches
wrapped in a newspaper.

"Here, Miss Margaret! You begin on these. I'll have coffee ready in
two shakes of a cow's tail. And what do you say to bacon?"

He understood her to remark from the depths of a sandwich that she
said "Amen!" to it, and that she would take everything he had and as
soon as he could get it ready. She was as good as her word. He found
no cause to complain of her appetite. Bacon and sandwiches and coffee
were all consumed in quantities reasonable for a famished girl who had
been tramping actively for a day and a night, and, since she was a
child of impulse, she turned more friendly eyes on him who had
appeased her appetite.

"I suppose you are a cowboy like everybody else in this country?" she
ventured amiably after her hunger had become less sharp.

"No, I belong to the government reclamation service."

"Oh!" She had a vague idea she had heard of it before. "Who is it you
reclaim? Indians, I suppose."

"We reclaim young ladies when we find them wandering about the
desert," he smiled.

"Is that what the government pays you for?"

"Not entirely. Part of the time I examine irrigation projects and
report on their feasibility. I have been known to build dams and bore
tunnels,"

"And what of the young ladies you reclaim? Do you bore them?" she
asked saucily.

"I understand they have hitherto always found me very entertaining,"
he claimed boldly, his smiling eyes on her.

"Indeed!"

"But young ladies are peculiar. Sometimes we think we're entertaining
them when we ain't."

"I'm sure you are right."

"And other times they're interested when they pretend they're not."

"It must be comforting to your vanity to think that," she said coldly.
For his words had recalled similar ones spoken by him twenty-four
hours earlier, which in turn had recalled his unpardonable sin.

The lieutenant of rangers appeared over the hill and descended into
the draw. Miss Kinney went to meet him.

"He got away?" she asked.

"Yes, ma'am. I lost him in some of these hollows, or rather I never
found him. I'm going to take my hawss and swing round in a circle."

"What are you going to do with me?" she smiled.

"I been thinking that the best thing would be for you to go to the Mal
Pais mines with Mr. Neill."

"Who is Mr. Neill?"

"The gentleman over there by the fire."

"Must I go with him? I should feel safer in your company, lieutenant."

"You'll be safe enough in his, Miss Kinney."

"You know me then?" she asked.

"I've seen you at Fort Lincoln. You were pointed out to me once as a
new teacher."

"But I don't want to go to the Mal Pais mines. I want to go to Fort
Lincoln. As to this gentleman, I have no claims on him and shall not
trouble him to burden himself with me."

Steve laughed. "I don't reckon he would think, it a terrible burden,
ma'am. And about the Mal Pais-- this is how it is. Fort Lincoln is all
of sixty miles from here as the crow flies. The mines are about
seventeen. My notion was you could get there and take the stage
to-morrow to your town."

"What shall I do for a horse?"

"I expect Mr. Neill will let you ride his. He can walk beside the
hawss."

"That won't do at all. Why should I put him to that inconvenience?
I'll walk myself."

The ranger flashed his friendly smile at her. He had an instinct that
served him with women. "Any way that suits you and him suits me. I'm
right sorry that I've got to leave you and take out after that hound
Struve, but you may take my word for it that this gentleman will look
after you all right and bring you safe to the Mal Pais."

"He is a stranger to me. I've only met him once and on that occasion
not pleasantly. I don't like to put myself under an obligation to him.
But of course if I must I must."

"That's the right sensible way to look at it. In this little old world
we got to do a heap we don't want to do. For instance, I'd rather see
you to the Mal Pais than hike over the hills after this fellow," he
concluded gallantly.

Neill, who had been packing the coffee-pot and the frying-pan, now
sauntered forward with his horse.

"Well, what's the program?" he wanted to know.

"It's you and Miss Kinney for the Mal Pais, me for the trail. I ain't
very likely to find Mr. Struve, but you can't always sometimes tell.
Anyhow, I'm going to take a shot at it," the ranger answered.

"And at him?" his friend suggested.

"Oh, I reckon not. He may be a sure-enough wolf, but I expect this
ain't his day to howl."

Steve whistled to his pony, swung to the saddle when it trotted up,
and waved his hat in farewell.

His "Adios!" drifted back to them from the crown of the hill just
before he disappeared over its edge.

  CHAPTER VI

 SOMEBODY'S ACTING MIGHTY FOOLISH.

Larry Neill watched him vanish and then turned smiling to Miss Kinney.

"All aboard for the Mal Pais," he sang out cheerfully.

Too cheerfully perhaps. His assurance that all was well between them
chilled her manner. He might forgive himself easily if he was that
sort of man; she would at least show him she was no party, to it. He
had treated her outrageously, had manhandled her with deliberate
intent to insult. She would show him no one alive could treat her so
and calmly assume to her that it was all right.

Her cool eyes examined the horse, and him.

"I don't quite see how you expect to arrange it, Mr. Neill. That is
your name, isn't it?" she added indifferently.

"That's my name-- Larry Neill. Easiest thing in the world to arrange.
We ride pillion if it suits you; if not, I'll walk."

"Neither plan suits me," she announced curtly, her gaze on the
far-away hills.

He glanced at her in quick surprise, then made the mistake of letting
himself smile at her frosty aloofness instead of being crestfallen by
it. She happened to look round and catch that smile before he could
extinguish it. Her petulance hardened instantly to a resolution.

"I don't quite know what we're going to do about it-- unless you
walk," he proposed, amused at the absurdity of his suggestion.

"That's just what I'm going to do," she retorted promptly.

"What!" He wheeled on her with an astonished smile on his face.

This served merely to irritate her.

"I said I was going to walk."

"Walk seventeen miles?"

"Seventy if I choose."

"Nonsense! Of course you won't."

Her eyebrows lifted in ironic demurrer. "I think you must let me be
the judge of that," she said gently.

"Walk!" he reiterated. "Why, you're walked out. You couldn't go a
mile. What do you take me for? Think I'm going to let you come that on
me."

"I don't quite see how you can help it, Mr. Neill," she answered.

"Help it! Why, it ain't reasonable. Of course you'll ride."

"Of course I won't."

She set off briskly, almost jauntily, despite her tired feet and
aching limbs.

"Well, if that don't beat--" He broke off to laugh at the situation.
After she had gone twenty steps he called after her in a voice that
did not suppress its chuckle: "You ain't going the right direction,
Miss Kinney."

She whirled round on him in anger. How dared he laugh at her?

"Which is the right way?" she choked.

"North by west is about it."

She was almost reduced to stamping her foot.

Without condescending to ask more definite instructions she struck off
at haphazard, and by chance guessed right. There was nothing for it
but to pursue. Wherefore the man pursued. The horse at his heels
hampered his stride, but he caught up with her soon.

"Somebody's acting mighty foolish," he said.

She said nothing very eloquently.

"If I need punishing, ma'am, don't punish yourself, but me. You ain't
able to walk and that's a fact."

She gave her silent attention strictly to the business of making
progress through the cactus and the sand.

"Say I'm all you think I am. You can trample on me proper after we get
to the Mal Pais. Don't have to know me at all if you don't want to.
Won't you ride, ma'am? Please!"

His distress filled her with a fierce delight. She stumbled defiantly
forward.

He pondered a while before he asked quietly:

"Ain't you going to ride, Miss Kinney?"

"No, I'm not. Better go on. Pray don't let me detain you."

"All right. See that peak with the spur to it? Well, you keep that
directly in line and make straight for it. I'll say good-by now,
ma'am. I got to hurry to be in time for dinner. I'll send some one out
from the camp to meet you that ain't such a villain as I am."

He swung to the saddle, put spurs to his pony, and cantered away. She
could scarce believe it, even when he rode straight over the hill
without a backward glance. He would never leave her. Surely he would
not do that. She could never reach the camp, and he knew it. To be
left alone in the desert again; the horror of it broke her down, but
not immediately. She went proudly forward with her head in the air at
first. He might look round. Perhaps he was peeping at her from behind
some cholla. She would not gratify him by showing any interest in his
whereabouts. But presently she began to lag, to scan draws and mesas
anxiously for him, even to call aloud in an ineffective little voice
which the empty hills echoed faintly. But from him there came no
answer.

She sat down and wept in self-pity. Of course she had told him to go,
but he knew well enough she did not mean it. A magnanimous man would
have taken a better revenge on an exhausted girl than to leave her
alone in such a spot, and after she had endured such a terrible
experience as she had. She had read about the chivalry of Western men.
Yet these two had ridden away on their horses and left her to live or
die as chance willed it.

"Now, don't you feel so bad, Miss Margaret. I wasn't aiming really to
leave you, of course," a voice interrupted her sobs to say.

She looked through the laced fingers that covered her face, mightily
relieved, but not yet willing to confess it. The engineer had made a
circuit and stolen up quietly behind.

"Oh! I thought you had gone," she said as carelessly as she could with
a voice not clear of tears.

"Were you crying because you were afraid I hadn't?" he asked.

"I ran a cactus into my foot. And I didn't say anything about crying."

"Then if your foot is hurt you will want to ride. That seventeen miles
might be too long a stroll before you get through with it."

"I don't know what I'll do yet," she answered shortly.

"I know what you'll do."

"Yes?"

"You'll quit your foolishness and get on this hawss."

She flushed angrily. "I won't!"

He stooped down, gathered her up in his arms, and lifted her to the
saddle.

"That's what you're going to do whether you like it or not," he
informed her.

"How are you going to make me stay here, now you have put me here?"

"I'm going to get on behind and hold you if it's necessary."

He was sensible enough of the folly of it all, but he did not see what
else he could do. She had chosen to punish him through herself in a
way that was impossible. It was a childish thing to do, born of some
touch of hysteria her experience had induced, and he could only treat
her as a child till she was safely back in civilization.

Their wills met in their eyes, and the man's, masculine and dominant,
won the battle. The long fringe of hers fell to the soft cheeks.

"It won't be at all necessary," she promised.

"Are you sure?"

"Quite sure."

"That's the way to talk."

"If you care to know," she boiled over, "I think you the most hateful
man I ever met."

"That's all right," he grinned ruefully. "You're the most contrairy
woman I ever bumped into, so I reckon honors are easy."

He strode along beside the horse, mile after mile, in a silence which
neither of them cared to break. The sap of youth flowed free in him,
was in his elastic tread, in the set of his broad shoulders, in the
carriage of his small, well-shaped head. He was as lean-loined and
lithe as a panther, and his stride ate up the miles as easily.

They nooned at a spring in the dry wash of Bronco Creek. After he had
unsaddled and picketed he condescended to explain to her.

"We'll stay here three hours or mebbe four through the heat of the
day."

"Is it far now?" she asked wearily.

"Not more than seven miles I should judge. Are you about all in?"

"Oh, no! I'm all right, thank you," she said, with forced
sprightliness.

His shrewd, hard gaze went over her and knew better.

"You lie down under those live-oaks and I'll get some grub ready."

"I'll cook lunch while you lie down. You must be tired walking so far
through the sun," said Miss Kinney.

"Have I got to pick you up again and carry you there?"

"No, you haven't. You keep your hands off me," she flashed.

But nevertheless she betook herself to the shade of the live-oaks and
lay down. When he went to call her for lunch he found her fast asleep
with her head pillowed on her arm. She looked so haggard that he had
not the heart to rouse her.

"Let her sleep. It will be the making of her. She's fair done. But
ain't she plucky? And that spirited! Ready to fight so long as she can
drag a foot. And her so sorter slim and delicate. Funny how she hangs
onto her grudge against me. Sho! I hadn't ought to have kissed her,
but I'll never tell her so."

He went back to his coffee and bacon, dined, and lay down for a siesta
beneath a cottonwood some distance removed from the live-oaks where
Miss Kinney reposed. For two or three hours he slept soundly, having
been in the saddle all night. It was mid-afternoon when he awoke, and
the sun was sliding down the blue vault toward the sawtoothed range to
the west. He found the girl still lost to the world in deep slumber.

The man from the Panhandle looked across the desert that palpitated
with heat, and saw through the marvelous atmosphere the smoke of the
ore-mills curling upward. He was no tenderfoot, to suppose that ten
minutes' brisk walking would take him to them. He guessed the distance
at about two and a half hour's travel.

"This is ce'tainly a hot evening. I expect we better wait till sundown
before moving," he said aloud.

Having made up his mind, it was characteristic of him that he was
asleep again in five minutes. This time she wakened before him, to
look into a wonderful sea of gold that filled the crotches of the
hills between the purple teeth. No sun was to be seen-- it had sunk
behind the peaks-- but the trail of its declension was marked by that
great pool of glory into which she gazed.

Margaret crossed the wash to the cottonwood under which her escort was
lying. He was fast asleep on his back, his gray shirt open at the
bronzed, sinewy neck. The supple, graceful lines of him were relaxed,
but even her inexperience appreciated the splendid shoulders and the
long rippling muscles. The maidenly instinct in her would allow but
one glance at him, and she was turning away when his eyes opened.

Her face, judging from its tint, might have absorbed some of the
sun-glow into which she had been gazing.

"I came to see if you were awake," she explained.

"Yes, ma'am, I am," he smiled.

"I was thinking that we ought to be going. It will be dark before we
reach Mal Pais."

He leaped to his feet and faced her.

"C'rect."

"Are you hungry?"

"Yes."

He relit the fire and put on the coffee-pot before he saddled the
horse. She ate and drank hurriedly, soon announcing herself ready for
the start.

She mounted from his hand; then without asking any questions he swung
to a place behind her.

"We'll both ride," he said.

The stars were out before they reached the outskirts of the
mining-camp. At the first house of the rambling suburbs Neill slipped
to the ground and walked beside her toward the old adobe plaza of the
Mexican town

People passed them on the run, paying no attention to them, and others
dribbled singly or in small groups from the houses and saloons. All of
them were converging excitedly to the plaza.

"Must be something doing here," said her guide. "Now I wonder what!"

Round the next turn he found his answer. There must have been present
two or three hundred men, mostly miners, and their gazes all focussed
on two figures which stood against a door at the top of five or six
steps. One of the forms was crouched on its knees, abject, cringing
terror stamped on the white villainous face upturned to the electric
light above. But the other was on its feet, a revolver in each hand, a
smile of reckless daring on the boyish countenance that just now stood
for law and order in Mal Pais.

The man beside the girl read the situation at a glance. The handcuffed
figure groveling on the steps belonged to the murderer Struve, and
over him stood lightly the young ranger Steve Fraser. He was standing
off a mob that had gathered to lynch his prisoner, and one glance at
him was enough to explain how he had won his reputation as the most
dashing and fearless member of a singularly efficient force. For plain
to be read as the danger that confronted him was the fact that peril
was as the breath of life to his nostrils.

  CHAPTER VII

 ENTER MR. DUNKE

"He's my prisoner and you can't have him," the girl heard the ranger
say.

The answer came in a roar of rage. "By God, we'll show you!"

"If you want him, take him. But don't come unless you are ready to pay
the price!" warned the officer.

He was bareheaded and his dark-brown curly hair crisped round his
forehead engagingly. Round his right hand was tied a blood-stained
handkerchief. A boy he looked, but his record was a man's, and so the
mob that swayed uncertainly below him knew. His gray eyes were steady
as steel despite the fire that glowed in them. He stood at ease, with
nerve unshaken, the curious lifted look of a great moment about the
poise of his graceful figure.

"It is Lieutenant Fraser," cried Margaret, but as she looked down she
missed her escort.

An instant, and she saw him. He was circling the outskirts of the
crowd at a run. For just a heart-beat she wondered what he was about,
but her brain told her before her eye. He swung in toward the steps,
shoulders down, and bored a way through the stragglers straight to the
heart of the turmoil. Taking the steps in two jumps, he stood beside
the ranger.

"Hello, Tennessee," grinned that young man. "Come to be a
pall-bearer?"

"Hello, Texas! Can't say, I'm sure. Just dropped in to see what's
doing."

Steve's admiring gaze approved him a man from the ground up. But the
ranger only laughed and said: "The band's going to play a right lively
tune, looks like."

The man from the Panhandle had his revolvers out already. "Yes, there
will be a hot time in the old town to-night, I shouldn't wonder."

But for the moment the attackers were inclined to parley. Their leader
stepped out and held up a hand for a suspension of hostilities. He was
a large man, heavily built, and powerful as a bear. There was about
him an air of authority, as of one used to being obeyed. He was
dressed roughly enough in corduroy and miner's half-leg boots, but
these were of the most expensive material and cut. His cold gray eye
and thin lips denied the manner of superficial heartiness he
habitually carried. If one scratched the veneer of good nature it was
to find a hard selfishness that went to his core.

"It's Mr. Dunke!" the young school-teacher cried aloud in surprise.

"I've got something to say to you, Mr. Lieutenant Ranger," he
announced, with importance.

"Uncork it," was Fraser's advice.

"We don't want to have any trouble with you, but we're here for
business. This man is a cold-blooded murderer and we mean to do
justice on him."

Steve laughed insolently. "If all them that hollers for justice the
loudest got it done to them, Mr. Dunke, there'd be a right smart
shrinkage in the census returns."

Dunke's eye gleamed with anger. "We're not here to listen to any smart
guys, sir. Will you give up Struve to us or will you not?"

"That's easy. I will not."

The mob leader turned to the Tennessean. "Young man, I don't know who
you are, but if you mean to butt into a quarrel that ain't yours all
I've got to say is that you're hunting an early grave."

"We'll know about that later, seh."

"You stand pat, do you?"

"Well, seh, I draw to a pair that opens the pot anyhow," answered
Larry, with a slight motion of his weapons.

Dunke fell back into the mob, a shot rang out into the night, and the
crowd swayed forward. But at that instant the door behind Fraser swung
open. A frightened voice sounded in his ear.

"Quick, Steve!"

The ranger slewed his head, gave an exclamation of surprise, and
hurriedly threw his prisoner into the open passage.

"Back, Larry! Lively, my boy!" he ordered.

Neill leaped back in a spatter of bullets that rained round him. Next
moment the door was swung shut again.

"You all right, Nell?" asked Fraser quickly of the young woman who had
opened the door, and upon her affirmative reply he added: "Everybody
alive and kicking? Nobody get a pill?"

"I'm all right for one," returned Larry. "But we had better get out of
this passage. I notice our friends the enemy are sending their cards
through the door after us right anxious."

As he spoke a bullet tore a jagged splinter from a panel and buried
itself in the ceiling. A second and a third followed.

"That's c'rect. We'd better be 'Not at home' when they call. Eh,
Nell?"

Steve put an arm affectionately round the waist of the young woman who
had come in such timely fashion to their aid and ran through the
passage with her to the room beyond, Neill following with the
prisoner.

"You're wounded, Steve," the young woman cried.

He shrugged. "Scratch in the hand. Got it when I arrested him. Had to
shoot his trigger finger off."

"But I must see to it."

"Not now; wait till we're out of the woods." He turned to his friend:
"Nell, let me introduce to you Mr. Neill, from the Panhandle. Mr.
Neill, this is my sister. I don't know how come she to drop down
behind us like an angel from heaven, but that's a story will wait. The
thing we got to do right now is to light a shuck out of here."

His friend nodded, listening to the sound of blows battering the outer
door. "They'll have it down in another minute. We've got to burn the
wind seven ways for Sunday."

"What I'd like to know is whether there are two entrances to this
rat-trap. Do you happen to know, Nell?" asked Fraser of his sister.

"Three," she answered promptly. "There's a back door into the court
and a trap-door to the roof. That's the way I came."

"And it's the way we'll go. I might a-known you'd know all about it
give you a quarter of a chance," her brother said admiringly. "We'll
duck through the roof and let Mr. Dunke hold the sack. Lead the way,
sis."

She guided them along another passageway and up some stairs to the
second story. The trap-door that opened to the flat roof was above the
bed about six feet. Neill caught the edges of the narrow opening, drew
himself up, and wriggled through. Fraser lifted his sister by the
waist high enough for Larry to catch her hands and draw her up.

"Hurry, Steve," she urged. "They've broken in. Hurry, dear."

The ranger unlocked his prisoner's handcuffs and tossed them up to the
Tennessean.

"Get a move on you, Mr. Struve, unless you want to figure in a necktie
party," he advised.

But the convict's flabby muscles were unequal to the task of getting
him through the opening. Besides which, his wounded hand, tied up with
a blood-soaked rag, impeded him. He had to be pulled from above and
boosted from behind. Fraser, fit to handle his weight in wildcats, as
an admirer had once put it, found no trouble in following. Steps were
already heard on the stairs below when Larry slipped the cover to its
place and put upon it a large flat stone which he found on the roof
for that purpose. The fugitives crawled along the roof on their hands
and knees so as to escape the observation of the howling mob outside
the house. Presently they came into the shadows, and Nell rose, ran
forward to a little ladder which led to a higher roof, and swiftly
ascended. Neill, who was at her heels, could not fail to note the
light supple grace with which she moved. He thought he had never seen
a more charming woman in appearance. She still somehow retained the
slim figure and taking ways of a girl, in conjunction with the soft
rounded curves of a present-day Madonna.

Two more roofs were crossed before they came to another open
trap-door. A lamp in the room below showed it to be a bedroom with two
cots in it. Two children, one of them a baby, were asleep in these. A
sweet-faced woman past middle age looked anxiously up with hands
clasped together as in prayer.

"Is it you, Nellie?" she asked.

"Yes, mother, and Steve, and his friend. We're all right."

Fraser dropped through, and his sister let herself down into his arms.
Struve followed, and was immediately handcuffed. Larry put back the
trap and fastened it from within before he dropped down.

"We shall have to leave at once, mother, without waiting to dress the
children," explained Fraser. "Wrap them in blankets and take some
clothes along. I'll drop you at the hotel and slip my prisoner into
the jail the back way if I can; that is, if another plan I have
doesn't work."

The oldest child awoke and caught sight of Fraser. He reached out his
hands in excitement and began to call: "Uncle Steve! Uncle Steve back
again."

Fraser picked up the youngster. "Yes, Uncle Steve is back. But we're
going to play a game that Indians are after us. Webb must be good and
keep very, very still. He mustn't say a word till uncle tells him he
may."

The little fellow clapped his hands. "Goody, goody! Shall we begin
now?"

"Right this minute, son. Better take your money with you, mother. Is
father here?"

"No, he is at the ranch. He went down in the stage to-day."

"All right, friends. We'll take the back way. Tennessee, will you look
out for Mr. Struve? Sis will want to carry the baby."

They passed quietly down-stairs and out the back door. The starry
night enveloped them coldly, and the moon looked down through rifted
clouds. Nature was peaceful as her own silent hills, but the raucous
jangle of cursing voices from a distance made discord of the harmony.
They slipped along through the shadows, meeting none except occasional
figures hurrying to the plaza. At the hotel door the two men separated
from the rest of the party, and took with them their prisoner.

"I'm going to put him for safe-keeping down the shaft of a mine my
father and I own," explained Steve. "He wouldn't be safe in the jail,
because Dunke, for private reasons, has made up his mind to put out
his lights."

"Private reasons?" echoed the engineer.

"Mighty good ones, too. Ain't that right?" demanded the ranger of
Struve.

The convict cursed, though his teeth still chattered with fright from
the narrow escape he had had, but through his prison jargon ran a hint
of some power he had over the man Dunke. It was plain he thought the
latter had incited the lynching in order to shut the convict's mouth
forever.

"Where is this shaft?" asked Neill.

"Up a gulch about half a mile from here."

Fraser's eyes fixed themselves on a young man who passed on the run.
He suddenly put his fingers to his lips and gave a low whistle. The
running man stopped instantly, his head alert to catch the direction
from which the sound had come. Steve whistled again and the stranger
turned toward them.

"It's Brown, one of my rangers," explained the lieutenant.

Brown, it appeared, had just reached town and stabled his horse when
word came to him that there was trouble on the plaza. He had been
making for it when his officer's whistle stopped him.

"It's all over except getting this man to safety. I'm going to put him
down an abandoned shaft of the Jackrabbit. He'll be safe there, and
nobody will think to look for him in any such place," said Fraser.

The man from the Panhandle drew his friend to one side. "Do you need
me any longer? I left Miss Kinney right on the edge of that mob, and I
expect I better look around and see where she is now."

"All right. No, we don't need you. Take care you don't let any of
these miners recognize you. They might make you trouble while they're
still hot. Well, so-long. See you to-morrow at the hotel."

The Tennessean looked to his guns to make sure they hung loose in the
scabbards, then stepped briskly back toward the plaza.

  CHAPTER VIII

 WOULD YOU WORRY ABOUT ME?

Margaret Kinney's heart ceased beating in that breathless instant
after the two dauntless friends had flung defiance to two hundred.
There was a sudden tightening of her throat, a fixing of dilated eyes
on what would have been a thrilling spectacle had it not meant so much
more to her. For as she leaned forward in the saddle with parted lips
she knew a passionate surge of fear for one of the apparently doomed
men that went through her like swift poison, that left her dizzy with
the shock of it.

The thought of action came to her too late. As Dunke stepped back to
give the signal for attack she cried out his name, but her voice was
drowned in the yell of rage that filled the street. She tried to spur
her horse into the crowd, to force a way to the men standing with such
splendid fearlessness above this thirsty pack of wolves. But the
denseness of the throng held her fixed even while revolvers flashed.

And then the miracle happened. She saw the door open and limned in a
penumbra of darkness the white comely face of a woman. She saw the
beleaguered men sway back and the door close in the faces of the
horde. She saw bullets go crashing into the door, heard screams of
baffled fury, and presently the crash of axes into the panels of the
barrier that held them back. It seemed to fade away before her gaze,
and instead of it she saw a doorway full of furious crowding miners.

Then presently her heart stood still again. From her higher place in
the saddle, well back in the outskirts of the throng, in the dim light
she made out a figure crouching on the roof; then another, and
another, and a fourth. She suffered an agony of fear in the few
heart-beats before they began to slip away. Her eyes swept the faces
near her. One and all they were turned upon the struggling mass of
humanity at the entrance to the passage. When she dared look again to
the roof the fugitives were gone. She thought she perceived them
swarming up a ladder to the higher roof, but in the surrounding
grayness she could not be sure of this.

The stamping of feet inside the house continued. Once there was the
sound of an exploding revolver. After a long time a heavy figure
struggled into view through the roof-trap. It was Dunke himself. He
caught sight of the ladder, gave a shout of triumph, and was off in
pursuit of his flying prey. As others appeared on the roof they, too,
took up the chase, a long line of indistinct running figures.

There were other women on the street now, most of them Mexicans, so
that Margaret attracted little attention. She moved up opposite the
house that had become the scene of action, expecting every moment to
hear the shots that would determine the fate of the victims.

But no shots came. Lights flashed from room to room, and presently one
light began to fill a room so brilliantly that she knew a lamp must
have been overturned and set the house on fire. Dunke burst from the
front door, scarce a dozen paces from her. There was a kind of lurid
fury in his eyes. He was as ravenously fierce as a wolf balked of its
kill. She chose that moment to call him.

"Mr. Dunke!"

Her voice struck him into a sort of listening alertness, and again she
pronounced his name.

"You, Miss Kinney-- here?" he asked in amazement.

"Yes-- Miss Kinney."

"But-- What are you doing here? I thought you were at Fort Lincoln."

"I was, but I'm here now."

"Why? This is no place for you to-night. Hell's broke loose."

"So it seems," she answered, with shining eyes.

"There's trouble afoot, Miss Margaret. No girl should be out, let
alone an unprotected one."

"I did not come here unprotected. There was a man with me. The one,
Mr. Dunke, that you are now looking for to murder!"

She gave it to him straight from the shoulder, her eyes holding his
steadily.

"Struve?" he gasped, taken completely aback.

"No, not Struve. The man who stood beside Lieutenant Fraser, the one
you threatened to kill because he backed the law."

"I guess you don't know all the facts, Miss Kinney." He came close and
met her gaze while he spoke in a low voice. "There ain't many know
what I know. Mebbe there ain't any beside you now. But I know you're
Jim Kinney's sister."

"You are welcome to the knowledge. It is no secret. Lieutenant Fraser
knows it. So does his friend. I'm not trying to hide it. What of it?"

Her quiet scorn drew the blood to his face.

"That's all right. If you do want to keep it quiet I'm with you. But
there's something more. Your brother escaped from Yuma with this
fellow Struve. Word came over the wire an hour or two ago that Struve
had been captured and that it was certain he had killed his pal, your
brother. That's why I mean to see him hanged before mo'ning."

"He did kill my brother. He told me so himself." Her voice carried a
sob for an instant, but she went on resolutely. "What has that to do
with it? Isn't there any law in Texas? Hasn't he been captured? And
isn't he being taken back to his punishment?"

"He told you so himself!" the man echoed. "When did he tell you? When
did you see him?"

"I was alone with him for twelve hours in the desert."

"Alone with you?" His puzzled face showed how he was trying to take
this in, "I don't understand. How could he be alone with you?"

"I thought he was my brother and I was helping him to escape from Fort
Lincoln."

"Helping him to escape! Helping Wolf Struve to escape! Well, I'm
darned if that don't beat my time. How come you to think him your
brother?" the man asked suspiciously.

"It doesn't matter how or why. I thought so. That's enough."

"And you were alone with him-- why, you must have been alone with him
all night," cried Dunke, coming to a fresh discovery.

"I was," she admitted very quietly.

A new suspicion edged itself into his mind. "What did you talk about?
Did he say anything about-- Did he-- He always was a terrible liar.
Nobody ever believed Wolf Struve."

Without understanding the reason for it, she could see that he was
uneasy, that he was trying to discount the value of anything the
convict might have told her. Yet what could Struve the convict, No.
9,432, have to do with the millionaire mine-owner, Thomas J. Dunke?
What could there be in common between them? Why should the latter fear
what the other had to tell? The thing was preposterous on the face of
it, but the girl knew by some woman's instinct that she was on the
edge of a secret Dunke held hidden deep in his heart from all the
world. Only this much she guessed; that Struve was a sharer of his
secret, and therefore he was set on lynching the man before he had
time to tell it.

"They got away, didn't they?" she asked.

"They got away-- for the present," he answered grimly. "But we're
still hunting them."

"Can't you let the law take its course, Mr. Danke? Is it necessary to
do this terrible thing?"

"Don't you worry any about it, Miss Kinney. This ain't a woman's job.
I'll attend to it."

"But my friends," she reminded him.

"We ain't intending to hurt them any. Come, I'll see you home. You
staying at the hotel?"

"I don't know. I haven't made any arrangements yet."

"Well, we'll go make them now."

But she did not move. "I'm not going in till I know how this comes
out."

He was a man used to having his own brutal way, one strong by nature,
with strength increased by the money upon which he rode rough-shod to
success.

He laughed as he caught hold of the rein. "That's ridiculous!"

"But my business, I think," the girl answered sharply, jerking the
bridle from his fingers.

Dunke stared at her. It was his night of surprises. He failed to
recognize the conventional teacher he knew in this bright-eyed,
full-throated young woman who fronted him so sure of herself. She
seemed to him to swim brilliantly in a tide of flushed beauty, in
spite of the dust and the stains of travel. She was in a shapeless
khaki riding-suit and a plain, gray, broad-brimmed Stetson. But the
one could not hide the flexible curves that made so frankly for grace,
nor the other the coppery tendrils that escaped in fascinating
disorder from under its brim.

"You hadn't ought to be out here. It ain't right."

"I don't remember asking you to act as a standard of right and wrong
for me."

He laughed awkwardly. "We ain't quarreling, are we, Miss Margaret?"

"Certainly I am not. I don't quarrel with anybody but my friends."

"Well, I didn't aim to offend you anyway. You know me better than
that." He let his voice fall into a caressing modulation and put a
propitiatory hand on her skirt, but under the uncompromising hardness
of her gaze the hand fell away to his side. "I'm your friend--
leastways I want to be."

"My friends don't lynch men."

"But after what he did to your brother."

"The law will take care of that. If you want to please me call off
your men before it is too late."

It was his cue to please her, for so far as it was in him the man
loved her. He had set his strong will to trample on his past, to rise
to a place where no man could shake his security with proof of his
former misdeeds. He meant to marry her and to place her out of reach
of those evil days of his. Only Struve was left of the old gang, and
he knew the Wolf well enough to be sure that the fellow would delight
in blackmailing him. The convict's mouth must be closed. But just now
he must promise t she wanted, and he did.

The promise was still on his lips when a third person strode into
their conversation.

"Sorry I had to leave you so hastily, Miss Kinney. I'm ready to take
you to the hotel now if it suits you."

Both of them turned quickly, to see the man from the Panhandle
sauntering forth from the darkness. There was a slight smile on his
face, which did not abate when he nodded to Dunke amiably.

"You?" exclaimed the mine-owner angrily.

"Why, yes-- me. Hope we didn't inconvenience you, seh, by postponing
the coyote's journey to Kingdom Come. My friend had to take a hand
because he is a ranger, and I sat in to oblige him. No hard feelings,
I hope."

"Did you-- Are you all safe?" Margaret asked.

"Yes, ma'am. Got away slick and clean."

"Where?" barked Dunke.

"Where what, my friend?"

"Where did you take him?"

Larry laughed in slow deep enjoyment. "I hate to disappoint you, but
if I told that would be telling. No, I reckon I won't table my cards
yet a while. If you're playing in this game of Hi-Spy go to it and
hunt."

"Perhaps you don't know that I am T. J. Dunke."

"You don't say! And I'm General Grant. This lady hyer is Florence
Nightingale or Martha Washington, I disremember which."

Miss Kinney laughed. "Whichever she is she's very very tired," she
said. "I think I'll accept your offer to see me to the hotel, Mr.
Neill."

She nodded a careless good night to the mine-owner, and touched the
horse with her heel. At the porch of the rather primitive hotel she
descended stiffly from the saddle.

Before she left the Southerner-- or the Westerner, for sometimes she
classified him as one, sometimes as the other-- she asked him one
hesitant question.

"Were you thinking of going out again tonight?"

"I did think of taking a turn out to see if I could find Fraser.
Anything I can do for you?"

"Yes. Please don't go. I don't want to have to worry about you. I have
had enough trouble for the present."

"Would you worry about me?" he asked quietly, his eyes steadily on
her.

"I lie awake about the most unaccountable things sometimes."

He smiled in his slow Southern fashion. "Very well. I'll stay indoors.
I reckon Steve ain't lost, anyhow. You're too tired to have to lie
awake about me to-night. There's going to be lots of other nights for
you to think of me."

She glanced at him with a quick curiosity. "Well, of all the conceit I
ever heard!"

"I'm the limit, ain't I?" he grinned as he took himself off.

  CHAPTER IX

 DOWN THE JACKRABBIT SHAFT.

Next morning Larry got up so late that he had to Order a special
breakfast for himself, the dining-room being closed. He found one
guest there, however, just beginning her oatmeal, and he invited
himself to eat at her table.

"Good mawnin', Miss Kinney. You don't look like you had been lying
awake worrying about me," he began by way of opening the conversation.

Nor did she. Youth recuperates quickly, and after a night's sound
sleep she was glowing with health and sweet vitality. He could see a
flush beat into the fresh softness of her flesh, but she lifted her
dark lashes promptly to meet him, and came to the sex duel gaily.

"I suppose you think I had to take a sleeping-powder to keep me from
it?" she flashed back.

"Oh, well, a person can dream," he suggested.

"How did you know? But you are right. I did dream of you."

To the waiter he gave his order before answering her. "Some oatmeal
and bacon and eggs. Yes, coffee. And some hot cakes, Charlie. Did you
honest dream about me?" This last not to the Chinese waiter who had
padded soft-footed to the kitchen.

"Yes."

She smiled shyly at him with sweet innocence, and he drew his chair a
trifle closer

"Tell me."

"I don't like to."

"But you must. Go on."

"Well," very reluctantly. "I dreamed I was visiting the penitentiary
and you were there in stripes. You were in for stealing a sheep, I
think. Yes, that was it, for stealing a sheep."

"Couldn't you make it something more classy if you're bound to have me
in?" he begged, enjoying immensely the rise she was taking out of him.

"I have to tell it the way it was," she insisted, her eyes bubbling
with fun. "And it seems you were the prison cook. First thing I knew
you were standing in front of a wall and two hundred of the prisoners
were shooting at you. They were using your biscuits as bullets."

"That was a terrible revenge to take on me for baking them."

"It seems you had your sheep with you-- the one you stole, and you and
it were being pelted all over."

"Did you see a lady hold-up among those shooting at me?" he inquired
anxiously.

She shook her head. "And just when the biscuits were flying thickest
the wall opened and Mr. Fraser appeared. He caught you and the sheep
by the back of your necks, and flung you in. Then the wall closed, and
I awoke."

"That's about as near the facts as dreams usually get."

He was very much pleased, for it would have been a great
disappointment to him if she had admitted dreaming about him for any
reason except to make fun of him. The thing about her that touched his
imagination most was something wild and untamed, some quality of
silken strength in her slim supple youth that scoffed at all men and
knew none as master. He meant to wrest from her if he could an
interest that would set him apart in her mind from all others, but he
wanted the price of victory to cost him something. Thus the value of
it would be enhanced.

"But tell me about your escape-- all about it and what became of
Lieutenant Fraser. And first of all, who the lady was that opened the
door for you," she demanded.

"She was his sister."

"Oh! His sister." Her voice was colorless. She observed him without
appearing to do so. "Very pretty, I thought her. Didn't you?"

"Right nice looking. Had a sort of an expression made a man want to
look at her again."

"Yes."

Innocently unaware that he was being pumped, he contributed more
information. "And that game."

"She was splendid. I can see her now opening the door in the face of
the bullets."

"Never a scream out of her either. Just as cool."

"That is the quality men admire most, isn't it-- courage?"

"I don't reckon that would come first. Course it wouldn't make a hit
with a man to have a woman puling around all the time."

"My kind, you mean."

Though she was smiling at him with her lips, it came to him that his
words were being warped to a wrong meaning.

"No, I don't," he retorted bluntly.

"As I remember it, I was bawling every chance I got yesterday and the
day before," she recalled, with fine contempt of herself.

"Oh, well! You had reason a-plenty. And sometimes a woman cries just
like a man cusses. It don't mean anything. I once knew a woman wet her
handkerchief to a sop crying because her husband forgot one mo'ning to
kiss her good-by. She quit irrigating to run into a burning house
after a neighbor's kids."

"I accept your apology for my behavior if you'll promise I won't do it
again," she laughed. "But tell me more about Miss Fraser. Does she
live here?"

For a moment he was puzzled. "Miss Fraser! Oh! She gave up that name
several years ago. Mrs. Collins they call her. And say, you ought to
see her kiddies. You'd fall in love with them sure."

The girl covered her mistake promptly with a little laugh. It would
never do for him to know she had been yielding to incipient jealousy.
"Why can't I know them? I want to meet her too."

The door opened and a curly head was thrust in. "Dining-room closes
for breakfast at nine. My clock says it's ten-thirty now. Pretty near
work to keep eating that long, ain't it? And this Sunday, too! I'll
have you put in the calaboose for breaking the Sabbath."

"We're only bending it," grinned Neill. "Good mo'ning, Lieutenant. How
is Mrs. Collins, and the pickaninnies?"

"First rate. Waiting in the parlor to be introduced to Miss Kinney."

"We're through," announced Margaret, rising.

"You too, Tennessee? The proprietor will be grateful."

The young women took to each other at once. Margaret was very fond of
children, and the little boy won her heart immediately. Both he and
his baby sister were well-trained, healthy, and lovable little folks,
and they adopted "Aunt Peggy" enthusiastically.

Presently the ranger proposed to Neill an adjournment.

"I got to take some breakfast down the Jackrabbit shaft to my
prisoner. Wanter take a stroll that way?" he asked.

"If the ladies will excuse us."

"Glad to get rid of you," Miss Kinney assured him promptly, but with a
bright smile that neutralized the effect of her sauciness. "Mrs.
Collins and I want to have a talk."

The way to the Jackrabbit lay up a gulch behind the town. Up one
incline was a shaft-house with a great gray dump at the foot of it.
This they left behind them, climbing the hill till they came to the
summit.

The ranger pointed to another shaft-house and dump on the next
hillside.

"That's the Mal Pais, from which the district is named. Dunke owns it
and most of the others round here. His workings and ours come together
in several places, but we have boarded up the tunnels at those points
and locked the doors we put in. Wonder where Brown is? I told him to
meet me here to let us down."

At this moment they caught sight of him coming up a timbered draw. He
lowered them into the shaft, which was about six hundred feet deep.
From the foot of the shaft went a tunnel into the heart of the
mountain. Steve led the way, flashing an electric searchlight as he
went.

"We aren't working this part of the mine any more," he explained. "It
connects with the newer workings by a tunnel. We'll go back that way
to the shaft."

"You've got quite a safe prison," commented the other.

"It's commodious, anyhow; and I reckon it's safe. If a man was to get
loose he couldn't reach the surface without taking somebody into
partner-ship with him. There ain't but three ways to daylight; one by
the shaft we came down, another by way of our shaft-house, and the
third by Dunke's, assuming he could break through into the Mal Pais.
He'd better not break loose and go to wandering around. There are
seventeen miles of workings down here in the Jackrabbit, let alone the
Mal Pais. He might easily get lost and starve to death. Here he is at
the end of this tunnel."

Steve flashed the light twice before he could believe his eyes. There
was no sign of Struve except the handcuffs depending from an iron
chain connected by a heavy staple with the granite wall. Apparently he
had somehow managed to slip from the gyves by working at them
constantly.

The officer turned to his friend and laughed. "I reckon I'm holding
the sack this time. See. There's blood on these cuffs. He rasped his
hands some before he got them out."

"Well, you've still got him safe down here somewhere."

"Yes, I have or Dunke has. The trouble is both the mines are shut down
just now. He's got about forty miles of tunnel to play
hide-and-go-seek in. He's in luck if he doesn't starve to death."

"What are you going to do about it?"

"I'll have to get some of my men out on search-parties-- just tell
them there's a man lost down here without telling them who. I reckon
we better say nothing about it to the ladies. You know how
tender-hearted they are. Nellie wouldn't sleep a wink to-night for
worrying."

"All right. We'd better get to it at once then."

Fraser nodded. "We'll go up and rustle a few of the boys that know the
mine well. I expect before we find him Mr. Wolf Struve will be a lamb
and right anxious for the shepherd to arrive."

All day the search proceeded without results, and all of the next day.
The evening of this second day found Struve still not accounted for.

  CHAPTER X

 IN A TUNNEL OF THE MAL PAIS

Although Miss Kinney had assured Neill that she was glad to be rid of
him it occurred to her more than once in the course of the day that he
was taking her a little too literally. On Sunday she did not see a
glimpse of him after he left. At lunch he did not appear, nor was he
in evidence at dinner. Next morning she learned that he had been to
breakfast and had gone before she got down. She withheld judgment till
lunch, being almost certain that he would be on hand to that meal. His
absence roused her resentment and her independence. If he didn't care
to see her she certainly did not want to see him. She was not going to
sit around and wait for him to take her down into the mine he had
promised she should see. Let him forget his appointment if he liked.
He would wait a long time before she made any more engagements with
him.

About this time Dunke began to flatter himself that he had made an
impression. Miss Kinney was all smiles. She was graciously pleased to
take a horseback ride over the camp with him, nor did he know that her
roving eye was constantly on the lookout for a certain spare,
clean-built figure she could recognize at a considerable distance by
the easy, elastic tread. Monday evening the mine-owner called upon her
and Mrs. Collins, whose brother also was among the missing, and she
was delighted to accept his invitation to go through the Mal Pais
workings with him.

"That is, if Mrs. Collins will go, too," she added as an afterthought.

That young woman hesitated. Though this man had led his miners against
her brother, she was ready to believe the attack not caused by
personal enmity. The best of feeling did not exist between the owners
of the Jackrabbit and those of the Mal Pais. Dunke was suspected of
boldly crossing into the territory of his neighbor where his veins did
not lead. But there had been no open rupture. For the very reason that
an undertow of feeling existed Nellie consented to join the party. She
did not want by a refusal to put into words a hostility tha e had
always carefully veiled. She was in the position of not wanting to go
at all, yet wanting still less to decline to do so.

"I shall be glad to go," she said.

"Fine. We'll start about nine, or nine-thirty say. I'll drive up in a
surrey."

"And we'll have lunch for the party put up at the hotel here. I'll get
some fruit to take along," said Margaret.

"We'll make a regular picnic of it," added Dunke heartily. "You'll
enjoy eating out of a dinner-pail for once just like one of my miners,
Miss Kinney,"

After he had gone Margaret mentioned to Mrs. Collins her feeling
concerning him. "I don't really like him. Or rather I don't give him
my full confidence. He seems pleasant enough, too." She laughed a
little as she added: "You know he does me the honor to admire me."

"Yes, I know that. I was wondering how you felt about it."

"How ought one to feel about one of the great mining kings of the
West?"

"Has that anything to do with it, my dear? I mean his being a mining
king?" asked Mrs. Collins gently.

Margaret went up to her and kissed her. "You're a romantic little
thing. That's because you probably married a heaven-sent man. We can't
all be fortunate."

"We none of us need to marry where we don't love."

"Goodness me! I'm not thinking of marrying Mr. Dunke's millions. The
only thing is that I don't have a Croesus to exhibit every day at my
chariot wheels. It's horrid of course, but I have a natural feminine
reluctance to surrendering him all at once. I don't object in the
least to trampling on him, but somehow I don't feel ready for his
declaration of independence."

"Oh, if that's all!" her friend smiled.

"That's quite all."

"Perhaps you prefer Texans who come from the Panhandle."

Mrs. Collins happened to be looking straight at her out of her big
brown eyes. Wherefore she could not help observing the pink glow that
deepened in the soft cheeks.

"He hasn't preferred me much lately."

Nellie knitted her brow in perplexity. "I don't understand. Steve's
been away, too, nearly all the time. Something is going on that we
don't know about."

"Not that I care. Mr. Neill is welcome to stay away."

Her new friend shot a swift slant look at her. "I don't suppose you
trample on him much."

Margaret flushed. "No, I don't. It's the other way. I never saw
anybody so rude. He does not seem to have any saving sense of the
proper thing."

"He's a man, dearie, and a good one. He may be untrammeled by
convention, but he is clean and brave. He has eyes that look through
cowardice and treachery, fine strong eyes that are honest and
unafraid."

"Dear me, you must have studied them a good deal to see all that in
them," said Miss Peggy lightly, yet pleased withal.

"My dear," reproached her friend, so seriously that Peggy repented.

"I didn't really mean it," she laughed. "I've heard already on good
authority that you see no man's eyes except the handsome ones in the
face of Mr. Tim Collins."

"I do think Tim has fine eyes," blushed the accused.

"No doubt of it. Since you have been admiring my young man I must
praise yours," teased Miss Kinney.

"Am I to wish you joy? I didn't know he was your young man," flashed
back the other.

"I understand that you have been trying to put him off on me."

"You'll find he does not need any 'putting off' on anybody."

"At least, he has a good friend in you. I think I'll tell him, so that
when he does condescend to become interested in a young woman he may
refer her to you for a recommendation."

The young wife borrowed for the occasion some of Miss Peggy's
audacity. "I'm recommending him to that young woman now, my dear," she
made answer.

Dunke's party left for the mine on schedule time, Water-proof coats
and high lace-boots had been borrowed for the ladies as a protection
against the moisture they were sure to meet in the tunnels one
thousand feet below the ground. The mine-owner had had the
hoisting-engine started for the occasion, and the cage took them down
as swiftly and as smoothly as a metropolitan elevator. Nevertheless
Margaret clung tightly to her friend, for if was her first experience
of the kind. She had never before dropped nearly a quarter of a mile
straight down into the heart of the earth and she felt a smothered
sensation, a sense of danger induced by her unaccustomed surroundings.
It is the unknown that awes, and when she first stepped from the cage
and peered down the long, low tunnel through which a tramway ran she
caught her breath rather quickly. She had an active imagination, and
she conjured cave-ins, explosions, and all the other mine horrors she
had read about.

Their host had spared no expense to make the occasion a gala one.
Electric lights were twinkling at intervals down the tunnel, and an
electric ore-car with a man in charge was waiting to run them into the
workings nearly a mile distant. Dunke dealt out candles and assisted
his guests into the car, which presently carried them deep into the
mine. Margaret observed that the timbered sides of the tunnel leaned
inward slightly and that the roof was heavily cross-timbered.

"It looks safe," she thought aloud.

"It's safe enough," returned Dunke carelessly. "The place for cave-ins
is at the head of the workings, before we get drifts timbered."

"Are we going into any of those places?"

"I wouldn't take you into any place that wasn't safe, Miss Margaret."

"Is it always so dreadfully warm down here?" she asked.

"You must remember we're somewhere around a thousand feet in the heart
of the earth. Yes, it's always warm."

"I don't see how the men stand it and work."

"Oh, they get used to it."

They left the car and followed a drift which took them into a region
of perpetual darkness, into which the electric lights did not
penetrate. Margaret noticed that her host carried his candle with
ease, holding it at an angle that gave the best light and most
resistance to the air, while she on her part had much ado to keep hers
from going out. Frequently she had to stop and let the tiny flame
renew its hold on the base of supplies. So, without his knowing it,
she fell behind gradually, and his explanations of stopes, drifts,
air-drills, and pay-streaks fell only upon the already enlightened
ears of Mrs. Collins.

The girl had been picking her way through some puddles of water that
had settled on the floor, and when she looked up the lights of those
ahead had disappeared. She called to them faintly and hurried on,
appalled at the thought of possibly losing them in these dreadful
underground catacombs where Stygian night forever reigned. But her
very hurry delayed her, for in her haste the gust of her motion swept
out the flame. She felt her way forward along the wall, in a darkness
such as she had never conceived before. Nor could she know that by
chance she was following the wrong wall. Had she chosen the other her
hand must have come to a break in it which showed that a passage at
that point deflected from the drift toward the left. Unconsciously she
passed this, already frightened but resolutely repressing her fear.

"I'll not let them know what an idiot I am. I'll not! I'll not!" she
told herself.

Therefore she did not call yet, thinking she must come on them at any
moment, unaware that every step was taking her farther from the
gallery into which they had turned. When at last she cried out it was
too late. The walls hemmed in her cry and flung it back tauntingly to
her-- the damp walls against which she crouched in terror of the
subterranean vault in which she was buried. She was alone with the
powers of darkness, with the imprisoned spirits of the underworld that
fought inarticulately against the audacity of the puny humans who
dared venture here. So her vivid imagination conceived it, terrorizing
her against both will and reason.

How long she wandered, a prey to terror, calling helplessly in the
blackness, she did not know. It seemed to her that she must always
wander so, a perpetual prisoner condemned to this living grave. So
that it was with a distinct shock of glad surprise she heard a voice
answer faintly her calls. Calling and listening alternately, she
groped her way in the direction of the sounds, and so at last came
plump against the figure of the approaching rescuer.

"Who is it?" a hoarse voice demanded.

But before she could answer a match flared and was held close to her
face. The same light that revealed her to him told the girl who this
man was that had met her alone a million miles from human aid. The
haggard, drawn countenance with the lifted upper lip and the sunken
eyes that glared into hers belonged to the convict Nick Struve.

The match went out before either of them spoke.

"You-- you here!" she exclaimed, and was oddly conscious that her
relief at meeting even him had wiped out for the present her fear of
the man.

"For God's sake, have you got anything to eat?" he breathed thickly.

It had been part of the play that each member of their little party
should carry a dinner-pail just like an ordinary miner. Wherefore she
had hers still in her hand.

"Yes, and I have a candle here. Have you another match?"

He lit the candle with a shaking hand.

"Gimme that bucket," he ordered gruffly, and began to devour
ravenously the food he found in it, tearing at sandwiches and gulping
them down like a hungry dog.

"What day is this?" he stopped to ask after he had stayed the first
pangs.

She told him Tuesday.

"I ain't eaten since Saturday," he told her. "I figured it was a week.
There ain't any days in this place-- nothin' but night. Can't tell one
from another."

"It's terrible," she agreed.

His appetite was wolfish. She could see that he was spent, so weak
with hunger that he had reeled against the wall as she handed him the
dinner-pail. Pallor was on the sunken face, and exhaustion in the
trembling hands and unsteady gait.

"I'm about all in, what with hunger and all I been through. I thought
I was out of my head when I heard you holler." He snatched up the
candle from the place where he had set it and searched her face by its
flame. "How come you down here? You didn't come alone. What you doin'
here?" he demanded suspiciously.

"I came down with Mr. Dunke and a, friend to look over his mine. I had
never been in one before."

"Dunke!" A spasm of rage swept the man's face. "You're a friend of
his, are you? Where is he? If you came with him how come you to be
roaming around alone?"

"I got lost. Then my light went out."

"So you're a friend of Dunke, that damned double-crosser! He's a
millionaire, you think, a big man in this Western country. That's what
he claims, eh?" Struve shook a fist into the air in a mad burst of
passion. "Just watch me blow him higher'n a kite. I know what he is,
and I got proof. The Judas! I keep my mug shut and do time while he
gets off scot-free and makes his pile. But you listen to me, ma'am.
Your friend ain't nothin' but an outlaw. If he got his like I got mine
he'd be at Yuma to-day. Your brother could a-told you. Dunke was at
the head of the gang that held up that train. We got nabbed, me and
Jim. Burch got shot in the Catalinas by one of the rangers, and Smith
died of fever in Sonora. But Dunke, curse him, he sneaks out and buys
the officers off with our plunder. That's what he done-- let his
partners get railroaded through while he sails out slick and easy. But
he made one mistake, Mr. Dunke did. He wrote me a letter and told me
to keep mum and he would fix it for me to get out in a few months. I
believed him, kept my mouth padlocked, and served seven years without
him lifting a hand for me. Then, when I make my getaway he tries first
off to shut my mouth by putting me out of business. That's what your
friend done, ma'am."

"Is this true?" asked the girl whitely.

"So help me God, every word of it."

"He let my brother go to prison without trying to help him?"

"Worse than that. He sent him to prison. Jim was all right when he
first met up with Dunke. It was Dunke that got him into his wild ways
and led him into trouble. It was Dunke took him into the hold-up
business. Hadn't been for him Jim never would have gone wrong."

She made no answer. Her mind was busy piecing out the facts of her
brother's misspent life. As a little girl she remembered her big
brother before he went away, good-natured, friendly, always ready to
play with her. She was sure he had not been bad, only fatally weak.
Even this man who had slain him was ready to testify to that.

She came back from her absorption to find Struve outlining what he
meant to do.

"We'll go back this passage along the way you came. I want to find Mr.
Dunke. I allow I've got something to tell him he will be right
interested in hearing."

He picked up the candle and led the way along the tunnel. Margaret
followed him in silence.

  CHAPTER XI

 THE SOUTHERNER TAKES A RISK

The convict shambled forward through the tunnel till he came to a
drift which ran into it at a right angle.

"Which way now?" he demanded.

"I don't know."

"Don't know," he screamed. "Didn't you just come along here? Do you
want me to get lost again in this hell-hole?"

The stricken fear leaped into his face. He had forgotten her danger,
forgotten everything but the craven terror that engulfed him. Looking
at him, she was struck for the first time with the thought that he
might be on the verge of madness.

His cry still rang through the tunnel when Margaret saw a gleam of
distant light. She pointed it out to Struve, who wheeled and fastened
his eyes upon it. Slowly the faint yellow candle-rays wavered toward
them. A man was approaching through the gloom, a large man whom she
presently recognized as Dunke. A quick gasp from the one beside her
showed that he too knew the man. He took a dozen running steps
forward, so that in his haste the candle flickered out.

"That you, Miss Margaret?" the mine-owner called.

Neither she nor Struve answered. The latter had stopped and was
waiting tensely his enemy's approach. When he was within a few yards
of the other Dunke raised his candle and peered into the blackness
ahead of him.

"What's the matter? Isn't it you, Miss Peggy?"

"No, it ain't. It's your old pal, Nick Struve. Ain't you glad to see
him, Joe?"

Dunke looked him over without a word. His thin lips set and his gaze
grew wall-eyed. The candle passed from right to left hand.

Struve laughed evilly. "No, I'm not going to pay you that way-- not
yet; nor you ain't going to rid yourself of me either. Want to know
why, Mr. Millionaire Dunke, what used to be my old pal? Want to know
why it ain't going to do you any good to drop that right hand any
closeter to your hip pocket?"

Still Dunke said nothing, but the candle-glow that lit his face showed
an ugly expression.

"Don't you whip that gun out, Joe Dunke. Don't you! 'Cause why? If you
do you're a goner."

"What do you mean?"

"I mean that I kept the letter you wrote me seven years ago, and have
put it where it will do you no good if anything happens to me. That's
why you won't draw that gun, Joe Dunke. If you do it will send you to
Yuma. Millionaire you may be, but that won't keep you from wearing
stripes."

Struve's voice rang exultantly. From the look in the face of his old
comrade in crime who had prospered at his expense, as he chose to
think, he saw that for the time being he had got the whip-hand.

There was a long silence before Dunke asked hoarsely:

"What do you want?"

"I want you to hide me. I want you to get me out of this country. I
want you to divvy up with me. Didn't we grub-stake you with the haul
from the Overland? Don't we go share and share alike, the two of us
that's left? Ain't that fair and square? You wouldn't want to do less
than right by an old pal, cap, you that are so respectable and proper
now. You ain't forgot the man that lay in the ditch with you the night
we held up the flyer, the man that rode beside you when you shot--"

"For God's sake don't rake up forgotten scrapes. We were all young
together then. I'll do what's right by you, but you got to keep your
mouth shut and let me manage this."

"The way you managed it before when you let me rot at Yuma seven
years," jeered Struve.

"I couldn't help it. They were on my trail and I had to lie low. I
tell you I'll pull you through if you do as I say."

"And I tell you I don't believe a word you say. You double-crossed me
before and you will again if you get a chance. I'll not let you out of
my sight."

"Don't be a fool, Nick. How can I help you if I can't move around to
make the arrangements for running you across the line?"

"And what guarantee have I got you ain't making arrangements to have
me scragged? Think I'm forgetting Saturday night?"

The girl in the blackness without the candle-shine moved slightly.

"What's that?" asked Dunke, startled.

"What's what?"

"That noise. Some one moved."

Dunke's revolver came swiftly from his pocket.

"I reckon it must a-been the girl."

"What girl? Miss Kinney?"

Dunke's hard eyes fastened on the other like steel augers.

Margaret came forward and took wraithlike shape.

"I want you to take me to Mrs. Collins, Mr. Dunke," she said.

The steel probes shifted from Struve to her.

"What did you hear, Miss Kinney? This man is a storehouse of lies. I
let him run on to see how far he would go."

Struve's harsh laugh filled the tunnel.

"Take me to Mrs. Collins," she reiterated wearily.

"Not till I know what you heard," answered Dunke doggedly.

"I heard everything," she avowed boldly. "The whole wretched,
miserable truth."

She would have pushed past him, but he caught her arm.

"Let me go!"

"I tell you it's all a mistake. I can explain it. Give me time."

"I won't listen, I want never to see either of you again. What have I
ever done that I should be mixed up with such men?" she cried, with
bitter despair.

"Don't go off half-cocked. 'Course I'll take you to Mrs. Collins if
you like. But you got to listen to what I say."

Another candle glimmered dimly in the tunnel and came toward them. It
presently stopped, and a voice rolled along the vault.

"Hello, there!"

Margaret would have known that voice anywhere among a thousand. Now it
came to her sweet as water after a drought. She slipped past Dunke and
ran stumbling through the darkness to its source.

"Mr. Neill! Mr. Neill!"

The pitiful note in her voice, which he recognized instantly, stirred
him to the core. Astonished that she should be in the mine and in
trouble, he dashed forward, and his candle went out in the rush.
Groping in the darkness her hands encountered his. His arms closed
round her, and in her need of protection that brushed aside
conventions and non-essentials, the need that had spoken in her cry of
relief, in her hurried flight to him, she lay panting and trembling in
his arms. He held her tight, as one who would keep his own against the
world.

"How did you get here-- what has happened?" he demanded.

Hurriedly she explained.

"Oh, take me away, take me away!" she concluded, nestling to him with
no thought now of seeking to disguise her helpless dependence upon
him, of hiding from herself the realization that he was the man into
whose keeping destiny had ordained that she was to give her heart.

"All right, honey. You're sure all safe now," he said tenderly, and in
the blackness his lips sought and met hers in a kiss that sealed the
understanding their souls had reached.

At the sound of Neill's voice Dunke had extinguished the candle and
vanished in the darkness with Struve, the latter holding him by the
arm in a despairing grip. Neill shouted again and again, as he
relighted his candle, but there came no answer to his calls.

"We had better make for the shaft," he said.

They set out on the long walk to the opening that led up to the light
and the pure air. For a while they walked on in silence. At last he
took her hand and guided her fingers across the seam on his wrist.

"It don't seem only four days since you did that, honey," he murmured.

"Did I do that?" Her voice was full of self-reproach, and before he
could stop her she lifted his hand and kissed the welt.

"Don't, sweet. I deserved what I got and more. I'm ready with that
apology you didn't want then, Peggy."

"But I don't want it now, either. I won't have it. Didn't I tell you I
wouldn't? Besides," she added, with a little leap of laughter in her
voice, "why should you ask pardon for kissing the girl you were meant
to-- to----"

He finished it for her.

"To marry, Peggy. I didn't know it then, but I knew it before you said
good-by with your whip."

"And I didn't know it till next morning," she said.

"Did you know it then, when you were so mean to me?"

"That was why I was so mean to you. I had to punish myself and you
because I-- liked you so well."

She buried her face shyly in his coat to cover this confession.

It seemed easy for both of them to laugh over nothing in the
exuberance of their common happiness. His joy pealed now delightedly.

"I can't believe it-- that four days ago you wasn't on the earth for
me. Seems like you always belonged; seems like I always enjoyed your
sassy ways."

"That's just the way I feel about you. It's really scandalous that in
less than a week-- just a little more than half a week-- we should be
engaged. We are engaged, aren't we?"

"Very much."

"Well, then-- it sounds improper, but it isn't the least bit. It's
right. Isn't it?"

"It ce'tainly is."

"But you know I've always thought that people who got engaged so soon
are the same kind of people that correspond through matrimonial
papers. I didn't suppose it would ever happen to me."

"Some right strange things happen while a person is alive, Peggy."

"And I don't really know anything at all about you except that you say
your name is Larry Neill. Maybe you are married already."

She paused, startled at the impossible thought.

"It must have happened before I can remember, then," he laughed.

"Or engaged. Very likely you have been engaged a dozen times. Southern
people do, they say."

"Then I'm an exception."

"And me-- you don't know anything about me."

"A fellow has to take some risk or quit living," he told her gaily.

"When you think of my temper doesn't it make you afraid?"

"The samples I've had were surely right exhilarating," he conceded.
"I'm expecting enough difference of opinion to keep life interesting."

"Well, then, if you won't be warned you'll just have to take me and
risk it."

And she slipped her arm into his and held up her lips for the kiss
awaiting her.

  CHAPTER XII

 EXIT DUNKE

Dunke plowed back through the tunnel in a blind whirl of passion.
Rage, chagrin, offended vanity, acute disappointment, all blended with
a dull heartache to which he was a stranger. He was a dangerous man in
a dangerous mood, and so Wolf Struve was likely to discover. But the
convict was not an observant man. His loose upper lip lifted in the
ugly sneer to which it was accustomed.

"Got onto you, didn't she?"

Dunke stuck his candle in a niche of the ragged granite wall, strode
across to his former partner in crime, and took the man by the throat.

"I'll learn you to keep that vile tongue of yours still," he said
between set teeth, and shook the hapless man till he was black in the
face.

Struve hung, sputtering and coughing, against the wall where he had
been thrown. It was long before he could do more than gasp.

"What-- what did you do-- that for?" His furtive ratlike face looked
venomous in its impotent anger. "I'll pay you for this-- and don't
you-- forget it, Joe Dunke!"

"You'd shoot me in the back the way you did Jim Kinney if you got a
chance. I know that; but you see you won't get a chance."

"I ain't looking for no such chance. I--"

"That's enough. I don't have to stand for your talk even if I do have
to take care of you. Light your candle and move along this tunnel
lively."

Something in Dunke's eye quelled the rebellion the other contemplated.
He shuffled along, whining as he went that he would never have looked
for his old pal to treat him so. They climbed ladders to the next
level, passed through an empty stope, and stopped at the end of a
drift.

"I'll arrange to get you out of here to-night and have you run across
the line. I'm going to give you three hundred dollars. That's the last
cent you'll ever get out of me. If you ever come back to this country
I'll see that you're hanged as you deserve."

With that Dunke turned on his heel and was gone. But his contempt for
the ruffian he had cowed was too fearless. He would have thought so if
he could have known of the shadow that dogged his heels through the
tunnel, if he could have seen the bare fangs that had gained Struve
his name of "Wolf," if he could have caught the flash of the knife
that trembled in the eager hand. He did not know that, as he shot up
in the cage to the sunlight, the other was filling the tunnel with
imprecations and wild threats, that he was hugging himself with the
promise of a revenge that should be sure and final.

Dunke went about the task of making the necessary arrangements
personally. He had his surrey packed with food, and about eleven
o'clock drove up to the mine and was lowered to the ninth level. An
hour later he stepped out of the cage with a prisoner whom he kept
covered with a revolver.

"It's that fellow Struve," he explained to the astonished engineer in
the shaft-house. "I found him down below. It seems that Fraser took
him down the Jackrabbit and he broke loose and worked through to our
ground."

"Do you want any help in taking him downtown, sir? Shall I phone for
the marshal?"

His boss laughed scornfully.

"When I can't handle one man after I've got him covered I'll let you
know, Johnson."

The two men went out into the starlit night and got into the surrey.
The play with the revolver had hitherto been for the benefit of
Johnson, but it now became very real. Dunke jammed the rim close to
the other's temple.

"I want that letter I wrote you. Quick, by Heaven! No fairy-tales, but
the letter!"

"I swear, Joe--"

"The letter, you villain! I know you never let it go out of your
possession. Give it up! Quick!"

Struve's hand stole to his breast, came out slowly to the edge of his
coat, then leaped with a flash of something bright toward the other's
throat. Simultaneously the revolver rang out. A curse, the sound of a
falling body, and the frightened horses leaped forward. The wheels
slipped over the edge of the narrow mountain road, and surrey, horses,
and driver plunged a hundred feet down to the sharp, broken rocks
below.

Johnson, hearing the shot, ran out and stumbled over a body lying in
the road. By the bright moonlight he could see that it was that of his
employer. The surrey was nowhere in sight, but he could easily make
out where it had slipped over the precipice. He ran back into the
shaft-house and began telephoning wildly to town.

  CHAPTER XIII

 STEVE OFFERS CONGRATULATIONS

When Fraser reached the dining-room for breakfast his immediate family
had finished and departed. He had been up till four o'clock and his
mother had let him sleep as long as he would. Now, at nine, he was up
again and fresh as a daisy after a morning bath.

He found at the next table two other late breakfasters.

"Mo'ning, Miss Kinney. How are you, Tennessee?" he said amiably.

Both Larry and the young woman admitted good health, the latter so
blushingly that Steve's keen eyes suggested to him that he might not
be the only one with news to tell this morning.

"What's that I hear about Struve and Dunke?" asked Neill at once.

"Oh, you've heard it. Well, it's true. I judge Dunke was arranging to
get him out of the country. Anyhow, Johnson says he took the fellow
out to his surrey from the shaft-house of the Mal Pais under his gun.
A moment later the engineer heard a shot and ran out. Dunke lay in the
road dead, with a knife through his heart. We found the surrey down in
the canyon. It had gone over the edge of the road. Both the hawsses
were dead, and Struve had disappeared. How the thing happened I reckon
never will be known unless the convict tells it. My guess would be
that Dunke attacked him and the convict was just a little bit more
than ready for him."

"Have you any idea where Struve is?"

"The obvious guess would be that he is heading for Mexico. But I've
got another notion. He knows that's where we will be looking for him.
His record shows that he used to trail with a bunch of outlaws up in
Wyoming. That was most twenty years ago. His old pals have disappeared
long since. But he knows that country up there. He'll figure that down
here he's sure to be caught and hanged sooner or later. Up there he'll
have a chance to hide under another name."

Neill nodded. "That's a big country up there and the mountains are
full of pockets. If he can reach there he will be safe."

"Maybe," the ranger amended quietly.

"Would you follow him?"

The officer's opaque gaze met the eyes of his friend. "We don't aim to
let a prisoner make his getaway once we get our hands on him. Wyoming
ain't so blamed far to travel after him-- if I learn he is there."

For a moment all of them were silent. Each of them was thinking of the
fellow and the horrible trail of blood he had left behind him in one
short week. Margaret looked at her lover and shuddered. She had not
the least doubt that this man sitting opposite them would bring the
criminal back to his punishment, but the sinister grotesque shadow of
the convict seemed to fall between her and her happiness.

Larry caught her hand under the table and gave it a little pressure of
reassurance. He spoke in a low voice. "This hasn't a thing to do with
us, Peggy-- not a thing. They were already both out of your life."

"Yes, I know, but--"

"There aren't any buts." He smiled warmly, and his smile took the
other man into their confidence. "You've been having a nightmare.
That's past. See the sunshine on those hills. It's bright mo'ning,
girl. A new day for you and for me."

Steve grinned. "This is awful sudden, Tennessee. You must a-been
sawing wood right industrious on the hawssback ride and down in the
tunnel. I expect there wasn't any sunshine down there, was there?"

"You go to grass, Steve."

"No, Tennessee is ce'tainly no two-bit man. Lemme see. One-- two--
three-- four days. That's surely going some," the ranger soliloquized.

"Mr. Fraser," the young woman reproved with a blush.

"Don't mind him, Peggy. He's merely jealous," came back Larry.

"Course I'm jealous. Whyfor not? What license have these Panhandle
guys to come in and tote off our girls? But don't mind me. I'll pay
strict attention to my ham and eggs and not see a thing that's going
on."

"Lieutenant!" Miss Margaret was both embarrassed and shocked.

"Want me to shut my eyes, Tennessee?"

"Next time we get engaged you'll not be let in on the ground floor,"
Neill predicted.

"Four days! My, my! If that ain't rapid transit for fair!"

"You're a man of one idea, Steve. Cayn't you see that the fact's the
main thing, not the time it took to make it one?"

"And counting out Sunday and Monday, it only leaves two days."

"Don't let that interfere with your breakfast. You haven't been
elected timekeeper for this outfit, you know!"

Fraser recovered from his daze and duly offered congratulations to the
one and hopes for unalloyed joy to the other party to the engagement.

"But four days!" he added in his pleasant drawl. "That's sure some
precipitous. Just to look at him, ma'am"-- this innocently to Peggy--
"a man wouldn't think he had it in him to locate, stake out, and do
the necessary assessment work on such a rich claim as the Margaret
Kinney all in four days. Mostly a fellow don't strike such high-grade
ore without a lot of--"

"That will do for you, lieutenant," interrupted Miss Kinney, with
merry, sparkling eyes. "You needn't think we're going to let you trail
this off into a compliment now. I'm going to leave you and see what
Mrs. Collins says. She won't sit there and parrot 'Four days' for the
rest of her life."

With which Mistress Peggy sailed from the room in mock hauteur.

When Larry came back from closing the door after her, his friend fell
upon him with vigorous. hands to the amazement of Wun Hop, the waiter.

"You blamed lucky son of a gun," he cried exuberantly between punches.
"You've ce'tainly struck pure gold, Tennessee. Looks like Old Man Good
Luck has come home to roost with you, son."

The other, smiling, shook hands with him. "I'm of that opinion myself,
Steve," he said.

  Part II

THE GIRL OF LOST VALLEY

  CHAPTER I

 IN THE FIRE ZONE

"Say, you Teddy hawss, I'm plumb fed up with sagebrush and scenery. I
kinder yearn for co'n bread and ham. I sure would give six bits for a
drink of real wet water. Yore sentiments are similar, I reckon,
Teddy."

The Texan patted the neck of his cow pony, which reached round
playfully and pretended to nip his leg. They understood each other,
and were now making the best of a very unpleasant situation. Since
morning they had been lost on the desert. The heat of midday had found
them plowing over sandy wastes. The declining sun had left them among
the foothills, wandering from one to another, in the vain hope that
each summit might show the silvery gleam of a windmill, or even that
outpost of civilization, the barb-wire fence. And now the stars looked
down indifferently, myriads of them, upon the travelers still plodding
wearily through a land magically transformed by moonlight to a silvery
loveliness that blotted out all the garish details of day.

The Texan drew rein. "We all been discovering that Wyoming is a
powerful big state. Going to feed me a cigarette, Teddy. Too bad a
hawss cayn't smoke his troubles away," he drawled, and proceeded to
roll a cigarette, lighting it with one sweeping motion of his arm,
that passed down the leg of his chaps and ended in the upward curve at
his lips.

The flame had not yet died, when faintly through the illimitable
velvet night there drifted to him a sound.

"Did you hear that, pardner?" the man demanded softly, listening
intently for a repetition of it.

It came presently, from away over to the left, and, after it, what
might have been taken for the popping of a distant bunch of
firecrackers.

"Celebrating the Fourth some premature, looks like. What? Think not,
Teddy! Some one getting shot up? Sho! You are romancin', old hawss."

Nevertheless he swung the pony round and started rapidly in the
direction of the shots. From time to time there came a renewal of
them, though the intervals grew longer and the explosions were now
individual ones. He took the precaution to draw his revolver from the
holster and to examine it carefully.

"Nothing like being sure. It's a heap better than being sorry
afterward," he explained to the cow pony.

For the first time in twelve hours, he struck a road. Following this
as it wound up to the summit of a hill, he discovered that the area of
disturbance was in the valley below. For, as he began his descent,
there was a flash from a clump of cotton-woods almost at his feet.

"Did yo' git him?" a voice demanded anxiously.

"Don't know, dad," the answer came, young, warm, and tremulous.

"Hello! There's a kid there," the Texan decided. Aloud, he asked
quietly: "What's the row, gentlemen?"

One of the figures whirled-- it was the boyish one, crouched behind a
dead horse-- and fired at him.

"Hold on, sonny! I'm a stranger. Don't make any more mistakes like
that."

"Who are you?"

"Steve Fraser they call me. I just arrived from Texas. Wait a jiff,
and I'll come down and explain."

He stayed for no permission, but swung from the saddle, trailed the
reins, and started down the slope. He could hear a low-voiced colloquy
between the two dark figures, and one of them called roughly:

"Hands up, friend! We'll take no chances on yo'."

The Texan's hands went up promptly, just as a bullet flattened itself
against a rock behind him. It had been fired from the bank of the dry
wash, some hundred and fifty yards away.

"That's no fair! Both sides oughtn't to plug at me," he protested,
grinning.

The darkness which blurred detail melted as Fraser approached, and the
moonlight showed him a tall, lank, unshaven old mountaineer, standing
behind a horse, his shotgun thrown across the saddle.

"That's near enough, Mr. Fraser from Texas," said the old man, in a
slow voice that carried the Southern intonation. "This old gun is
loaded with buckshot, and she scatters like hell. Speak yore little
piece. How came yo' here, right now?"

"I got lost in the Wind River bad lands this mo'ning, and I been
playing hide and go seek with myself ever since."

"Where yo' haided for?"

"Gimlet Butte."

"Huh! That's right funny, too."

"Why?"

"Because all yo' got to do to reach the butte is to follow this road
and yore nose for about three miles."

A bullet flung up a spurt of sand beside the horse.

The young fellow behind the dead horse broke in, with impatient alarm:
"He's all right, dad. Can't you tell by his way of talking that he's
from the South? Make him lie down."

Something sweet and vibrant in the voice lingered afterward in the
Texan's mind almost like a caress, but at the time he was too busy to
think of this. He dropped behind a cottonwood, and drew his revolver.

"How many of them are there?" he asked of the lad, in a whisper.

"About six, I think. I'm sorry I shot at you."

"What's the row?"

"They followed us out of Gimlet Butte. They've been drinking. Isn't
that some one climbing up the side of the ridge?"

"I believe it is. Let me have your rifle, kid."

"What for?" The youngster took careful aim, and fired.

A scream from the sagebrush-- just one, and then no more.

"Bully for you', Arlie," the old man said.

None of them spoke for some minutes, then Fraser heard a sob-- a
stifled one, but unmistakable none the less.

"Don't be afraid, kid. We'll stand 'em off," the Texan encouraged.

"I ain't afraid, but I-- I---- Oh, God, I've killed a man."

The Texan stared at him, where he lay in the heavy shadows, shaken
with his remorse. "Holy smoke! Wasn't he aiming to kill you? He likely
isn't dead, anyhow. You got real troubles to worry about, without
making up any."

He could see the youngster shaking with the horror of it, and could
hear the staccato sobs forcing themselves through the closed teeth.
Something about it, some touch of pathos he could not account for,
moved his not very accessible heart. After all, he was a slim little
kid to be engaged in such a desperate encounter Fraser remembered his
own boyhood and the first time he had ever seen bloodshed, and,
recalling it, he slipped across in the darkness and laid an arm across
the slight shoulder.

"Don't you worry, kid. It's all right. You didn't mean--"

He broke off in swift, unspeakable amazement. His eye traveled up the
slender figure from the telltale skirt. This was no boy at all, but a
girl. As he took in the mass of blue-black hair and the soft but
clean-cut modeling from ear to chin, his hand fell from her shoulder.
What an idiot he had been not to know from the first that such a voice
could have come only from a woman! He had been deceived by the
darkness and by the slouch hat she wore. He wanted to laugh in
sardonic scorn of his perception.

But on the heel of that came a realization of her danger. He must get
her out of there at once, for he knew that the enemy must be circling
round, to take them on the flank too. It was not a question of whether
they could hold off the attackers. They might do that, and yet she
might be killed while they were doing it. A man used to coping with
emergencies, his brain now swiftly worked out a way of escape.

"Yore father and I will take care of these coyotes. You slip along
those shadows up the hill to where my Teddy hawss is, and burn the
wind out of here," he told her.

"I'll not leave dad," she said quickly.

The old mountaineer behind the horse laughed apologetically. "I been
trying to git her to go, but she won't stir. With the pinto daid, o'
course we couldn't both make it."

"That's plumb foolishness," the Texan commented irritably.

"Mebbe," admitted the girl; "but I reckon I'll stay long as dad does."

"No use being pigheaded about it."

Her dark eyes flashed. "Is this your say-so, Mr.
Whatever-your-name-is?" she asked sharply, less because she resented
what he said than because she was strung to a wire edge.

His troubled gaze took in again her slim girlishness. The frequency of
danger had made him proof against fear for himself, but just now he
was very much afraid for her. Hard man as he was, he had the
Southerner's instinctive chivalry toward woman.

"You better go, Arlie," her father counseled weakly.

"Well, I won't," she retorted emphatically.

The old man looked whimsically at the Texan. "Yo' see yo'self how it
is, stranger."

Fraser saw, and the girl's stanchness stirred his admiration even
while it irritated him. He made his decision immediately.

"All right. Both of you go."

"But we have only one horse," the girl objected. "They would catch
us."

"Take my Teddy."

"And leave you here?" The dark eyes were full on him again, this time
in a wide-open surprise.

"Oh, I'll get out once you're gone. No trouble about that."

"How?"

"We couldn't light out, and leave yo' here," the father interrupted.

"Of course we couldn't," the girl added quickly. "It isn't your
quarrel, anyhow."

"What good can you do staying here?" argued Fraser. "They want you,
not me. With you gone, I'll slip away or come to terms with them. They
haven't a thing against me."

"That's right," agreed the older man, rubbing his stubbly beard with
his hand. "That's sho'ly right."

"But they might get you before they understood," Arlie urged.

"Oh, I'll keep under cover, and when it's time, I'll sing out and let
them know. Better leave me that rifle, though." He went right on,
taking it for granted that she had consented to go: "Slip through
those shadows up that draw. You'll have no trouble with Teddy. Whistle
when you're ready, and your father will make a break up the hill on
his hawss. So-long. See you later some time, mebbe."

She went reluctantly, not convinced, but overborne by the quality of
cheerful compulsion that lay in him. He was not a large man, though
the pack and symmetry of his muscles promised unusual strength. But
the close-gripped jaw, the cool serenity of the gray eyes that looked
without excitement upon whatever they saw, the perfect poise of his
carriage-- all contributed to a personality plainly that of a leader
of men.

It was scarce a minute later that the whistle came from the hilltop.
The mountaineer instantly swung to the saddle and set his pony to a
canter up the draw. Fraser could see him join his daughter in the dim
light, for the moon had momentarily gone behind a cloud, but almost at
once the darkness swallowed them.

Some one in the sagebrush called to a companion, and the Texan knew
that the attackers had heard the sound of the galloping horses.
Without waiting an instant, he fired twice in rapid succession.

"That'll hold them for a minute or two," he told himself. "They won't
understand it, and they'll get together and have a powwow."

He crouched behind the dead horse, his gaze sweeping the wash, the
sagebrush, and the distant group of cottonwoods from which he had seen
a shot fired. Though he lay absolutely still, without the least
visible excitement, he was alert and tense to the finger tips. Not the
slightest sound, not the smallest motion of the moonlit underbrush,
escaped his unwavering scrutiny.

The problem before him was to hold the attackers long enough for Arlie
and her father to make their escape, without killing any of them or
getting killed himself. He knew that, once out of the immediate
vicinity, the fugitives would leave the road and take to some of the
canyons that ran from the foothills into the mountains. If he could
secure them a start of fifteen minutes that ought to be enough.

A voice from the wash presently hailed him:

"See here! We're going to take you back with us, old man. That's a
cinch. We want you for that Squaw Creek raid, and we're going to have
you. You done enough damage. Better surrender peaceable, and we'll
promise to take you back to jail. What say?"

"Gimme five minutes to think it over," demanded the Texan.

"All right, five minutes. But you want to remember that it's all off
with you if you don't give up. Billy Faulkner's dead, and we'll sure
come a-shooting."

Fraser waited till his five minutes was nearly up, then plunged across
the road into the sagebrush growing thick there. A shot or two rang
out, without stopping him. Suddenly a man rose out of the sage in
front of him, a revolver in his hand.

For a fraction of a second, the two men faced each other before either
spoke.

"Who are you?"

Fraser's answer was to dive for the man's knees, just as a football
tackle does. They went down together, but it was the Texan got up
first. A second man was running toward him.

"Hands up, there!" the newcomer ordered.

Fraser's hand went up, but with his forty-five in it. The man pitched
forward into the sage. The Southerner twisted forward again, slid down
into the dry creek, and ran along its winding bed for a hundred yards.
Then he left it, cutting back toward the spot where he had lain behind
the dead horse. Hiding in the sage, he heard the pursuit pouring down
the creek, waited till it was past, and quickly recrossed the road.
Here, among the cow-backed hills, he knew he was as safe as a needle
in a haystack.

"I had to get that anxious guy, but it might have been a whole lot
worse. I only plugged his laig for him," he reflected comfortably.
"Wonder why they wanted to collect the old man's scalp, anyhow? The
little girl sure was game. Just like a woman, though, the way she
broke down because she hit that fellow."

Within five minutes he was lost again among the thousand hills that
rose like waves of the sea, one after another. It was not till nearly
morning that he again struck a road.

He was halted abruptly by a crisp command from behind a bowlder:

"Up with your hands-- quick!"

"Who are you, my friend?" the Texan asked mildly.

"Deputy sheriff," was the prompt response. "Now, reach for the sky,
and prompt, too."

"Just as you say. You've ce'tainly got the crawl on me."

The deputy disarmed his captive, and drove him into town before him.
When morning dawned, Fraser found himself behind the bars. He was
arrested for the murder of Faulkner.

  CHAPTER II

 A COMPACT

After the jailer had brought his breakfast, Fraser was honored by a
visit from the sheriff, a big, rawboned Westerner, with the creases of
fifty outdoor years stamped on his brown, leathery face.

He greeted his prisoner pleasantly enough, and sat down on the bed.

"Treating you right, are they?" he asked, glancing around. "Breakfast
up to the mark?"

"I've got no kick coming, thank you," said Fraser.

"Good!"

The sheriff relapsed into sombre silence. There was a troubled look in
the keen eyes that the Texan did not understand. Fraser waited for the
officer to develop the object of his visit, and it was set down to his
credit. A weaker man would have rushed at once into excuses and
explanations. But in the prisoner's quiet, steely eyes, in the
close-shut mouth and salient jaw, in the set of his well-knit figure,
Sheriff Brandt found small room for weakness. Whoever he was, this man
was one who could hold his own in the strenuous game of life.

"My friend," said the sheriff abruptly, "you and I are up against it.
There is going to be trouble in town to-night."

The level, gray eyes looked questioningly at the sheriff.

"You butted into grief a-plenty when you lined up with the cattlemen
in this sheep war. Who do you ride for?"

"I'm not riding for anybody," responded Fraser. "I just arrived from
Texas. Didn't even know there was a feud on."

Brandt laughed incredulously. "That will sound good to a jury, if your
case ever comes to that stage. How do you expect to explain Billy
Faulkner's death?"

"Is there any proof I killed him?"

"Some. You were recognized by two men last night while you were trying
to escape. You carried a rifle that uses the same weight bullet as the
one we dug out of Billy. When you attacked Tom Peake you dropped that
rifle, and in your getaway hadn't time to pick it up again. That is
evidence enough for a Wyoming jury, in the present state of public
opinion."

"What do you mean by 'in the present state of public opinion'?"

"I mean that this whole country is pretty nearly solid against the
Cedar Mountain cattlemen, since they killed Campeau and Jennings in
that raid on their camp. You know what I mean as well as I do."

Fraser did not argue the point. He remembered now having seen an
account of the Squaw Creek raid on a sheep camp, ending in a battle
that had resulted in the death of two men and the wounding of three
others. He had been sitting in a hotel at San Antonio, Texas, when he
had read the story over his after-dinner cigar. The item had not
seemed even remotely connected with himself. Now he was in prison at
Gimlet Butte, charged with murder, and unless he was very much
mistaken the sheriff was hinting at a lynching. The Squaw Creek raid
had come very near to him, for he knew the fight he had interrupted
last night had grown out of it,

"What do you mean by trouble to-night?" he asked, in an even,
conversational tone.

The sheriff looked directly at him. "You're a man, I reckon. That
calls for the truth. Men are riding up and down this country to-day,
stirring up sentiment against your outfit. To-night the people will
gather in town, and the jail will be attacked."

"And you?"

"I'll uphold the law as long as I can."

Fraser nodded. He knew Brandt spoke the simple truth. What he had
sworn to do he would do to the best of his ability. But the Texan
knew, too, that the ramshackle jail would be torn to pieces and the
sheriff overpowered.

From his coat pocket he drew a letter, and presented it to the other.
"I didn't expect to give this to you under these circumstances, Mr.
Brandt, but I'd like you to know that I'm on the level when I say I
don't know any of the Squaw Creek cattlemen and have never ridden for
any outfit in this State."

Brandt tore open the letter, and glanced hurriedly through it. "Why,
it's from old Sam Slauson! We used to ride herd together when we were
boys." And he real aloud:

"Introducing Steve Fraser, lieutenant in the Texas Rangers."

He glanced up quickly. "You're not the Fraser that ran down Chacon and
his gang of murderers?"

"Yes, I was on that job."

Brandt shook hands heartily. "They say it was a dandy piece of work. I
read that story in a magazine. You delivered the goods proper."

The ranger was embarrassed. "Oh, it wasn't much of a job. The man that
wrote it put in the fancy touches, to make his story sell, I expect."

"Yes, he did! I know all about that!" the sheriff derided. "I've got
to get you out of this hole somehow. Do you mind if I send for
Hilliard, the prosecuting attorney? He's a bright young fellow, loaded
to the guards with ideas. What I want is to get at a legal way of
fixing this thing up, you understand. I'll call him up on the phone,
and have him run over."

Hilliard was shortly on the spot-- a short, fat little fellow with
eyeglasses. He did not at first show any enthusiasm in the prisoner's
behalf.

"I don't doubt for a moment that you are the man this letter says you
are, Mr. Fraser," he said suavely. "But facts are stubborn things. You
were seen carrying the gun that killed Faulkner. We can't get away
from that just because you happen to have a letter of introduction to
Mr. Brandt."

"I don't want to get away from it," retorted. Fraser. "I have
explained how I got into the fight. A man doesn't stand back and see
two people, and one of them a girl, slaughtered by seven or eight."

The lawyer's fat forefinger sawed the air. "That's how you put it.
Mind, I don't for a moment say it isn't the right way. But what the
public wants is proof. Can you give evidence to show that Faulkner and
his friends attacked Dillon and his daughter? Have you even got them
on hand here to support your statement? Have you got a grain of
evidence, apart from your bare word?"

"That letter shows--"

"It shows nothing. You might have written it yourself last night.
Anyhow, a letter of introduction isn't quite an excuse for murder."

"It wasn't murder."

"That's what you say. I'll be glad to have you prove it."

"They followed Dillon-- if that is his name-- out of town."

"They put it that they were on their way home, when they were
attacked."

"By an old man and his daughter," the Texan added significantly.

"There again we have only your statement for it. Half a dozen men had
been in town during the day from the Cedar Mountain district. These
men were witnesses in the suit that rose over a sheep raid. They may
all have been on the spot, to ambush Faulkner's crowd."

Brandt broke in: "Are you personally convinced that this gentleman is
Lieutenant Fraser of the Rangers?"

"Personally, I am of opinion that he is, but--"

"Hold your horses, Dave. Believing that, do you think that we ought to
leave him here to be lynched to-night by Peake's outfit?"

"That isn't my responsibility, but speaking merely as a private
citizen, I should say, No."

"What would you do with him then?"

"Why not take him up to your house?"

"Wouldn't be safe a minute, or in any other house in town."

"Then get out of town with him."

"It can't be done. I'm watched."

Hilliard shrugged.

The ranger's keen eyes went from one to another. He saw that what the
lawyer needed was some personal interest to convert him into a
partisan. From his pocket he drew another letter and some papers.

"If you doubt that I am Lieutenant Fraser you can wire my captain at
Dallas. This is a letter of congratulation to me from the Governor of
Texas for my work in the Chacon case. Here's my railroad ticket, and
my lodge receipt. You gentlemen are the officers in charge. I hold you
personally responsible for my safety-- for the safety of a man whose
name, by chance, is now known all over this country."

This was a new phase of the situation, and it went home to the
lawyer's mind at once. He had been brought into the case willy nilly,
and he would be blamed for anything that happened to this young Texan,
whose deeds had recently been exploited broadcast in the papers. He
stood for an instant in frowning thought, and as he did so a clause in
the letter from the Governor of Texas caught and held his eye.

  which I regard as the ablest, most daring, and, at the same time,
  the most difficult and most successful piece of secret service that
  has come to my knowledge....

Suddenly, Hilliard saw the way out-- a way that appealed to him none
the less because it would also serve his own ambitions.

"Neither you nor I have any right to help this gentleman to escape,
sheriff. The law is plain. He is charged with murder. We haven't any
right to let our private sympathies run away with us. But there is one
thing we can do."

"What is that?" the sheriff asked.

"Let him earn his freedom."

"Earn it! How?"

"By serving the State in this very matter of the Squaw Creek raid. As
prosecuting attorney, it is in my discretion to accept the service of
an accomplice to a crime in fixing the guilt upon the principals.
Before the law, Lieutenant Fraser stands accused of complicity. We
believe him not guilty, but that does not affect the situation. Let
him go up into the Cedar Mountain country and find out the guilty
parties in the Squaw Creek raid."

"And admit my guilt by compromising with you?" the Texan scoffed.

"Not at all. You need not go publicly. In point of fact, you couldn't
get out of town alive if it were known. No, we'll arrange to let you
break jail on condition that you go up into the Lost Canyon district,
and run down the murderers of Campeau and Jennings, That gives us an
excuse for letting you go. You see the point-- don't you?"

The Texan grinned. "That isn't quite the point, is it?" he drawled.
"If I should be successful, you will achieve a reputation, without any
cost to yourself. That's worth mentioning,"

Hilliard showed a momentary embarrassment.

"That's incidental. Besides, it will help your reputation more than
mine "

Brandt got busy at once with the details of the escape. "We'll loosen
up the mortar round the bars in the south room. They are so rickety
anyhow I haven't kept any prisoners there for years. After you have
squeezed through you will find a horse saddled in the draw, back here.
You'll want a gun of course."

"Always providing Lieutenant Fraser consents to the arrangement," the
lawyer added smoothly.

"Oh, I'll consent," laughed Fraser wryly. "I have no option. Of
course, if I win I get the reward-- whatever it is."

"Oh, of course."

"Then I'm at your service, gentlemen, to escape whenever you say the
word."

"The best time would be right after lunch. That would give you five
hours before Nichols was in here again," the sheriff suggested.

"Suppose you draw a map, showing the route I'm to follow to reach
Cedar Mountain. I reckon I had better not trouble folks to ask them
the way." And the Texan grinned.

"That's right. I'll fix you up, and tell you later just where you'll
find the horse," Brandt answered.

"You're an officer yourself, lieutenant," said the lawyer. "You know
just how much evidence it takes to convict. Well, that's just how much
we want. If you have to communicate with us, address 'T. L. Meredith,
Box 117.' Better send your letter in cipher. Here's a little code I
worked out that we sometimes use. Well, so-long. Good hunting,
lieutenant."

Fraser nodded farewell, but did not offer to shake hands.

Brandt lingered for an instant. "Don't make any mistake, Fraser, about
this job you've bit off. It's a big one, and don't you forget it.
People are sore on me because I have fallen down on it. I can't help
it. I just can't get the evidence. If you tackle it, you'll be in
danger from start to finish. There are some bad men in this country,
and the worst of them are lying low in Lost Valley."

The ranger smiled amiably. "Where is this Lost Valley?"

"Somewhere up in the Cedar Mountain district. I've never been there.
Few men have, for it is not easy to find; and even if it were
strangers are not invited."

"Well, I'll have to invite myself."

"That's all right. But remember this. There are men up there who would
drill holes in a dying man. I guess Lost Valley is the country God
forgot."

"Sounds right interesting."

"You'll find it all that, and don't forget that if they find out what
you are doing there, it will be God help Steve Fraser!"

The ranger's eyes gleamed. "I'll try to remember it."

  CHAPTER III

 INTO LOST VALLEY

It was one-twenty when Fraser slipped the iron bar from the masonry
into which it had been fixed and began to lower himself from the
window. The back of the jail faced on the bank of a creek; and into
the aspens, which ran along it at this point in a little grove, the
fugitive pushed his way. He descended to the creek edge and crossed
the mountain stream on bowlders which filled its bed. From here he
followed the trail for a hundred yards that led up the little river.
On the way he passed a boy fishing and nodded a greeting to him.

"What time is it, mister?" the youngster asked.

A glance at his watch showed the Texan that it was one-twenty-five.

"The fish have quit biting. Blame it all, I'm going home. Say, mister,
Jimmie Spence says they're going to lynch that fellow who killed Billy
Faulkner-- going to hang him to-night, Jimmie says. Do you reckon they
will?"

"No, I reckon not."

"Tha's what I told him, but Jimmie says he heard Tom Peake say so.
Jimmie says this town will be full o' folks by night."

Without waiting to hear any more of Jimmie's prophecies, Fraser
followed the trail till it reached a waterfall Brandt bad mentioned,
then struck sharply to the right. In a little bunch of scrub oaks he
found a saddled horse tied to a sapling. His instructions were to
cross the road, which ran parallel with the stream, and follow the
gulch that led to the river. Half an hour's travel brought him to
another road. Into this he turned, and followed it.

In a desperate hurry though he was, Steve dared not show it. He held
his piebald broncho to the ambling trot a cowpony naturally drops
into. From his coat pocket he flashed a mouthharp for use in
emergency.

Presently he met three men riding into town. They nodded at him, in
the friendly, casual way of the outdoors West. The gait of the pony
was a leisurely walk, and its rider was industriously executing, "I
Met My Love In the Alamo."

"Going the wrong way, aren't you?" one of the three suggested.

"Don't you worry, I'll be there when y'u hang that guy they caught
last night," he told them with a grin.

From time to time he met others. All travel seemed to be headed
townward. There was excitement in the air. In the clear atmosphere
voices carried a long way, and all the conversation that came to him
was on the subjects of the war for the range, the battle of the
previous evening, and the lynching scheduled to take place in a few
hours. He realized that he had escaped none too soon, for it was
certain that as the crowd in town multiplied, they would set a watch
on the jail to prevent Brandt from slipping out with his prisoner.

About four miles from town he cut the telephone wires, for he knew
that as soon as his escape became known to the jailer, the sheriff
would be notified, and he would telephone in every direction the
escape of his prisoner, just the same as if there had been no
arrangement between them. It was certain, too, that all the roads
leading from Gimlet Butte would be followed and patrolled immediately.
For which reason he left the road after cutting the wires, and took to
the hill trail marked out for him in the map furnished by Brandt.

By night, he was far up in the foothills. Close to a running stream,
he camped in a little, grassy park, where his pony could find forage.
Brandt had stuffed his saddlebags with food, and had tied behind a
sack, with a feed or two of oats for his horse. Fraser had ridden the
range too many years to risk lighting a fire, even though he had put
thirty-five miles between him and Gimlet Butte. The night was chill,
as it always is in that altitude, but he rolled up in his blanket, got
what sleep he could, and was off again by daybreak.

Before noon he was high in the mountain passes, from which he could
sometimes look down into the green parks where nested the little
ranches of small cattlemen. He knew now that he was beyond the danger
of the first hurried pursuit, and that it was more than likely that
any of these mountaineers would hide him rather than give him up.
Nevertheless, he had no immediate intention of putting them to the
test.

The second night came down on him far up on Dutchman Creek, in the
Cedar Mountain district. He made a bed, where his horse found a meal,
in a haystack of a small ranch, the buildings of which were strung
along the creek. He was weary, and he slept deep. When he awakened
next morning, it was to hear the sound of men's voices. They drifted
to him from the road in front of the house.

Carefully he looked down from the top of his stack upon three horsemen
talking to the bare-headed ranchman whom they had called out from his
breakfast.

"No, I ain't seen a thing of him. Shot Billy Faulkner, you say? What
in time for?" the rancher was innocently asking.

"You know what for, Hank Speed," the leader of the posse made sullen
answer. "Well, boys, we better be pushing on, I expect."

Fraser breathed freer when they rode out of sight. He had overslept,
and had had a narrow shave; for his pony was grazing in the alfalfa
field within a hundred yards of them at that moment. No sooner had the
posse gone than Hank Speed stepped across the field without an
instant's hesitation and looked the animal over, after which he
returned to the house and came out again with a rifle in his hands.

The ranger slid down the farther side of the stack and slipped his
revolver from its holster. He watched the ranchman make a tour of the
out-buildings very carefully and cautiously, then make a circuit of
the haystack at a safe distance. Soon the rancher caught sight of the
man crouching against it.

"Oh, you're there, are you? Put up that gun. I ain't going to do you
any harm."

"What's the matter with you putting yours up first?" asked the Texan
amiably.

"I tell you I ain't going to hurt you. Soon as I stepped out of the
house I seen your horse. All I had to do was to say so, and they would
have had you slick."

"What did you get your gun for, then?"

"I ain't taking any chances till folks' intentions has been declared.
You might have let drive at me before I got a show to talk to you."

"All right. I'll trust you." Fraser dropped his revolver, and the
other came across to him.

"Up in this country we ain't in mourning for Billy Faulkner. Old man
Dillon told me what you done for him. I reckon we can find cover for
you till things quiet down. My name is Speed."

"Call me Fraser."

"Glad to meet you, Mr. Fraser. I reckon we better move you back into
the timber a bit. Deputy sheriffs are some thick around here right
now. If you have to lie hid up in this country for a spell, we'll make
an arrangement to have you taken care of."

"I'll have to lie hid. There's no doubt about that. I made my jail
break just in time to keep from being invited as chief guest to a
necktie party."

"Well, we'll put you where the whole United States Army couldn't find
you."

They had been walking across the field and now crawled between the
strands of fence wire.

"I left my saddle on top of the stack," the ranger explained.

"I'll take care of it. You better take cover on top of this ridge till
I get word to Dillon you're here. My wife will fix you up some
breakfast, and I'll bring it out."

"I've ce'tainly struck the good Samaritan," the Texan smiled.

"Sho! There ain't a man in the hills wouldn't do that much for a
friend."

"I'm glad I have so many friends I never saw."

"Friends? The hills are full of them. You took a hand when old man
Dillon and his girl were sure up against it. Cedar Mountain stands
together these days. What you did for them was done for us all," Speed
explained simply.

Fraser waited on the ridge till his host brought breakfast of bacon,
biscuits, hard-boiled eggs, and coffee. While he ate, Speed sat down
on a bowlder beside him and talked.

"I sent my boy with a note to Dillon. It's a good thirty miles from
here, and the old man won't make it back till some time to-morrow.
Course, you're welcome at the house, but I judge it wouldn't be best
for you to be seen there. No knowing when some of Brandt's deputies
might butt in with a warrant. You can slip down again after dark and
burrow in the haystack. Eh? What think?"

"I'm in your hands, but I don't want to put you and your friends to so
much trouble. Isn't there some mountain trail off the beaten road that
I could take to Dillon's ranch, and so save him from the trip after
me?"

Speed grinned. "Not in a thousand years, my friend. Dillon's ranch
ain't to be found, except by them that know every pocket of these
hills like their own back yard. I'll guarantee you couldn't find it in
a month, unless you had a map locating it."

"Must be in that Lost Valley, which some folks say is a fairy tale,"
the ranger said carelessly, but with his eyes on the other.

The cattleman made no comment. It occurred to Fraser that his remark
had stirred some suspicion of him. At least, it suggested caution.

"If you're through with your breakfast, I'll take back the dishes,"
Speed said dryly.

The day wore to sunset. After dark had fallen the Texan slipped
through the alfalfa field again and bedded in the stack. Before the
morning was more than gray he returned to the underbrush of the ridge.
His breakfast finished, and Speed gone, he lay down on a great flat,
sun-dappled rock, and looked into the unflecked blue sky. The season
was spring, and the earth seemed fairly palpitating with young life.
The low, tireless hum of insects went on all about him. The air was
vocal with the notes of nesting birds. Away across the valley he could
see a mountain slope, with snow gulches glowing pink in the dawn.
Little checkerboard squares along the river showed irrigated patches.
In the pleasant warmth he grew drowsy. His eyes closed, opened, closed
again.

He was conscious of no sound that awakened him, yet he was aware of a
presence that drew him from drowsiness to an alert attention.
Instinctively, his hand crept to his scabbarded weapon.

"Don't shoot me," a voice implored with laughter-- a warm, vivid
voice, that struck pleasantly on his memory.

The Texan turned lazily, and leaned on his elbow. She came smiling out
of the brush, light as a roe, and with much of its slim, supple grace.
Before, he had seen her veiled by night; the day disclosed her a dark,
spirited young creature. The mass of blue-black hair coiled at the
nape of the brown neck, the flash of dark eyes beneath straight, dark
eyebrows, together with a certain deliberation of movement that was
not languor, made it impossible to doubt that she was a Southerner by
inheritance, if not by birth.

"I don't reckon I will," he greeted, smiling. "Down in Texas it ain't
counted right good manners to shoot up young ladies."

"And in Wyoming you think it is."

"I judge by appearances, ma'am."

"Then you judge wrong. Those men did not know I was with dad that
night. They thought I was another man. You see, they had just lost
their suit for damages against dad and some more for the loss of six
hundred sheep in a raid last year. They couldn't prove who did it."
She flamed into a sudden passion of resentment. "I don't defend them
any. They are a lot of coyotes, or they wouldn't have attacked two
men, riding alone."

He ventured a rapier thrust. "How about the Squaw Creek raid? Don't
your friends sometimes forget to fight fair, too?"

He had stamped the fire out of her in an instant. She drooped visibly.
"Yes-- yes, they do," she faltered. "I don't defend them, either. Dad
had nothing to do with that. He doesn't shoot in the back."

"I'm glad to hear it," he retorted cheerfully. "And I'm glad to hear
that your friends the enemy didn't know it was a girl they were
attacking. Fact is, I thought you were a boy myself when first I
happened in and you fanned me with your welcome."

"I didn't know. I hadn't time to think. So I let fly. But I was so
excited I likely missed you a mile."

He took off his felt hat and examined with interest a bullet hole
through the rim. "If it was a mile, I'd hate to have you miss me a
hundred yards," he commented, with a little ripple of laughter.

"I didn't! Did I? As near as that?" She caught her hands together in a
sudden anguish for what might have been.

"Don't you care, ma'am. A miss is as good as a mile. It ain't the
first time I've had my hat ventilated. I mentioned it, so you wouldn't
get discouraged at your shooting. It's plenty good. Good enough to
suit me. I wouldn't want it any better."

"What about the man I wounded." she asked apprehensively. "Is he-- is
it all right?"

"Haven't you heard?"

"Heard what?" He could see the terror in her eyes.

"How it all came out?"

He could not tell why he did it, any more than he could tell why he
had attempted no denial to the sheriff of responsibility for the death
of Faulkner, but as he looked at this girl he shifted the burden from
her shoulders to his. "You got your man in the ankle. I had worse luck
after you left. They buried mine."

"Oh!" From her lips a little cry of pain forced itself. "It wasn't
your fault. It was for us you did it. Oh, why did they attack us?"

"I did what I had to do. There is no blame due either you or me for
it," he said, with quiet conviction.

"I know. But it seems so dreadful. And then they put you in jail-- and
you broke out! Wasn't that it?"

"That was the way of it, Miss Arlie. How did you know?"

"Henry Speed's note to father said you had broken jail. Dad wasn't at
home. You know, the round-up is on now and he has to be there. So I
saddled, and came right away."

"That was right good of you."

"Wasn't it?" There was a softened, almost tender, jeer in her voice.
"Since you only saved our lives!"

"I ain't claiming all that, Miss Arlie."

"Then I'll claim it for you. I suppose you gave yourself up to them
and explained how it was after we left."

"Not exactly that. I managed to slip away, through the sage. It was
mo'ning before I found the road again. Soon as I did, a deputy tagged
me, and said, 'You're mine.' He spoke for me so prompt and seemed so
sure about what he was saying, I didn't argue the matter with him." He
laughed gayly.

"And then?"

"Then he herded me to town, and I was invited to be the county's
guest. Not liking the accommodations, I took the first chance and flew
the coop. They missed a knife in my pocket when they searched me, and
I chipped the cement away from the window bars, let myself down by the
bed linen, and borrowed a cow-pony I found saddled at the edge of
town. So, you see, I'm a hawss thief too, ma'am."

She could not take it so lightly as he did, even though she did not
know that he had barely escaped with his life. Something about his
debonair, smiling hardihood touched her imagination, as did also the
virile competence of the man. If the cool eyes in his weatherbeaten
face could be hard as agates, they could also light up with sparkling
imps of mischief. Certainly he was no boy, but the close-cut waves of
crisp, reddish hair and the ready smile contributed to an impression
of youth that came and went.

"Willie Speed is saddling you a horse. The one you came on has been
turned loose to go back when it wants to. I'm going to take you home
with me," she told him.

"Well, I'm willing to be kidnapped."

"I brought your horse Teddy. If you like, you may ride that, and I'll
take the other."

"Yore a gentleman, ma'am. I sure would."

When Arlie saw with what pleasure the friends met, how Teddy nickered
and rubbed his nose up and down his master's coat and how the Texan
put him through his little repertoire of tricks and fed him a lump of
sugar from his coat pocket, she was glad she had ridden Teddy instead
of her own pony to the meeting.

They took the road without loss of time. Arlie Dillon knew exactly how
to cross this difficult region. She knew the Cedar Mountain district
as a grade teacher knows her arithmetic. In daylight or in darkness,
with or without a trail, she could have traveled almost a bee line to
the point she wanted. Her life had been spent largely in the saddle--
at least that part of it which had been lived outdoors. Wherefore she
was able to lead her guest by secret trails that wound in and out
among the passes and through unsuspected gorges to hazardous descents
possible only to goats and cow ponies. No stranger finding his way in
would have stood a chance of getting out again unaided.

Among these peaks lay hidden pockets and caches by hundreds, rock
fissures which made the country a very maze to the uninitiated. The
ranger, himself one of the best trailers in Texas, doubted whether he
could retrace his steps to the Speed place.

After several hours of travel, they emerged from a gulch to a little
valley known as Beaver Dam Park. The girl pointed out to her companion
a narrow brown ribbon that wound through the park.

"There's the road again. That's the last we shall see of it-- or it
will be when we have crossed it. Once we reach the Twin Buttes that
are the gateway to French Caon you are perfectly safe. You can see
the buttes from here. No, farther to the right."

"I thought I'd ridden some tough trails in my time, but this country
ce'tainly takes the cake," Fraser said admiringly, as his gaze swept
the horizon. "It puts it over anything I ever met up with. Ain't that
right, Teddy hawss?"

The girl flushed with pleasure at his praise. She was mountain bred,
and she loved the country of the great peaks.

They descended the valley, crossed the road, and in an open grassy
spot just beyond, came plump upon four men who had unsaddled to eat
lunch.

The meeting came too abruptly for Arlie to avoid it. One glance told
her that they were deputies from Gimlet Butte. Without the least
hesitation she rode forward and gave them the casual greeting of
cattleland. Fraser, riding beside her, nodded coolly, drew to a halt,
and lit a cigarette.

"Found him yet, gentlemen?" he asked.

"No, nor we ain't likely to, if he's reached this far," one of the men
answered.

"It would be some difficult to collect him here," the Texan admitted
impartially.

"Among his friends," one of the deputies put in, with a snarl.

Fraser laughed easily. "Oh, well, we ain't his enemies, though he
ain't very well known in the Cedar Mountain country. What might he be
like, pardner?"

"Hasn't he lived up here long?" asked one of the men, busy with some
bacon over a fire.

"They say not."

"He's a heavy-set fellow, with reddish hair; not so tall as you, I
reckon, and some heavier. Was wearing chaps and gauntlets when he made
his getaway. From the description, he looks something like you, I
shouldn't wonder."

Fraser congratulated himself that he had had the foresight to discard
as many as possible of these helps to identification before he was
three miles from Gimlet Butte. Now he laughed pleasantly.

"Sure he's heavier than me, and not so tall."

"It would be a good joke, Bud, if they took you back to town for this
man," cut in Arlie, troubled at the direction the conversation was
taking, but not obviously so.

"I ain't objecting any, sis. About three days of the joys of town
would sure agree with my run-down system," the Texan answered
joyously.

"When you cowpunchers do get in, you surely make Rome howl," one of
the deputies agreed, with a grin. "Been in to the Butte lately?"

The Texan met his grin. "It ain't been so long."

"Well, you ain't liable to get in again for a while," Arlie said
emphatically. "Come on, Bud, we've got to be moving."

"Which way is Dead Cow Creek?" one of the men called after them.

Fraser pointed in the direction from which he had just come.

After they had ridden a hundred yards, the girl laughed aloud her
relief at their escape. "If they go the way you pointed for Dead Cow
Creek, they will have to go clear round the world to get to it. We're
headed for the creek now."

"A fellow can't always guess right," pleaded the Texan. "If he could,
what a fiend he would be at playing the wheel! Shall I go back and
tell him I misremembered for a moment where the creek is?"

"No, sir. You had me scared badly enough when you drew their attention
to yourself. Why did you do it?"

"It was the surest way to disarm any suspicion they might have had.
One of them had just said the man they wanted was like me. Presently,
one would have been guessing that it was me." He looked at her drolly,
and added: "You played up to me fine, sis."

A touch of deeper color beat into her dusky cheeks. "We'll drop the
relationship right now, if you please. I said only what you made me
say," she told him, a little stiffly.

But presently she relaxed to the note of friendliness, even of
comradeship, habitual to her. She was a singularly frank creature,
having been brought up in a country where women were few and far, and
where conventions were of the simplest. Otherwise, she would not have
confessed to him with unconscious nivet, as she now did, how greatly
she had been troubled for him before she received the note from Speed.

"It worried me all the time, and it troubled dad, too. I could see
that. We had hardly left you before I knew we had done wrong. Dad did
it for me, of course; but he felt mighty bad about it. Somehow, I
couldn't think of anything but you there, with all those men shooting
at you. Suppose you had waited too long before surrendering! Suppose
you had been killed for us!" She looked at him, and felt a shiver run
over her in the warm sunlight. "Night before last I was worn out. I
slept some, but I kept dreaming they were killing you. Oh, you don't
know bow glad I was to get word from Speed that you were alive." Her
soft voice had the gift of expressing feeling, and it was resonant
with it now.

"I'm glad you were glad," he said quietly.

Across Dead Cow Creek they rode, following the stream up French Caon
to what was known as the Narrows. Here the great rock walls, nearly
two thousand feet high, came so close together as to leave barely room
for a footpath beside the creek which boiled down over great bowlders.
Unexpectedly, there opened in the wall a rock fissure, and through
this Arlie guided her horse.

The Texan wondered where she could be taking him, for the fissure
terminated in a great rock slide some two hundred yards ahead of them.
Before reaching this she turned sharply to the left, and began winding
in and out among the big bowlders which had fallen from the summit far
above.

Presently Fraser observed with astonishment that they were following a
path that crept up the very face of the bluff. Up-- up-- up they went
until they reached a rift in the wall, and into this the trail went
precipitously. Stones clattered down from the hoofs of the horses as
they clambered up like mountain goats. Once the Texan had to throw
himself to the ground to keep Teddy from falling backward.

Arlie, working her pony forward with voice and body and knees, so that
from her seat in the saddle she seemed literally to lift him up,
reached the summit and looked back.

"All right back there?" she asked quietly.

"All right," came the cheerful answer. "Teddy isn't used to climbing
up a wall, but he'll make it or know why."

A minute later, man and horse were beside her.

"Good for Teddy," she said, fondling his nose.

"Look out! He doesn't like strangers to handle him."

"We're not strangers. We're tillicums. Aren't we, Teddy?"

Teddy said "Yes" after the manner of a horse, as plain as words could
say it.

From their feet the trail dropped again to another gorge, beyond which
the ranger could make out a stretch of valley through which ran the
gleam of a silvery thread.

"We're going down now into Mantrap Gulch. The patch of green you see
beyond is Lost Valley," she told him,

"Lost Valley," he repeated, in amazement. "Are we going to Lost
Valley?"

"You've named our destination."

"But-- you don't live in Lost Valley."

"Don't I?"

"Do you?"

"Yes," she answered, amused at his consternation, if it were that.

"I wish I had known," he said, as if to himself.

"You know now. Isn't that soon enough? Are you afraid of the place,
because people make a mystery of it?" she demanded impatiently.

"No. It isn't that." He looked across at the valley again, and asked
abruptly: "Is this the only way in?"

"No. There is another, but this is the quickest."

"Is the other as difficult as this?"

"In a way, yes. It is very much more round-about. It isn't known much
by the public. Not many outsiders have business in the valley."

She volunteered no explanation in detail, and the man beside her said,
with a grim laugh:

"There isn't any general admission to the public this way, is there?"

"No. Oh, folks can come if they want to."

He looked full in her face, and said significantly: "I thought the way
to Lost Valley was a sort of a secret-- one that those who know are
not expected to tell."

"Oh, that's just talk. Not many come in but our friends. We've had to
be careful lately. But you can't call a secret what a thousand folks
know."

It was like a blow in the face to him. Not many but their friends! And
she was taking him in confidently because he was her friend. What sort
of a friend was he? he asked himself. He could not perform the task to
which he was pledged without striking home at her. If he succeeded in
ferreting out the Squaw Creek raiders he must send to the
penitentiary, perhaps to death, her neighbors, and possibly her
relatives. She had told him her father was not implicated, but a
daughter's faith in her parent was not convincing proof of his
innocence. If not her father, a brother might be involved. And she was
innocently making it easy for him to meet on a friendly footing these
hospitable, unsuspecting savages, who had shed human blood because of
the unleashed passions in them!

In that moment, while he looked away toward Lost Valley, he sickened
of the task that lay before him. What would she think of him if she
knew?

Arlie, too, had been looking down the gulch toward the valley. Now her
gaze came slowly round to him and caught the expression of his face.

"What's the matter?" she cried.

"Nothing. Nothing at all. An old heart pain that caught me suddenly."

"I'm sorry. We'll soon be home now. We'll travel slowly."

Her voice was tender with sympathy; so, too, were her eyes when he met
them.

He looked away again and groaned in his heart.

  CHAPTER IV

 THE WARNING OF MANTRAP GULCH

They followed the trail down into the caon. As the ponies slowly
picked their footing on the steep narrow path, he asked:

"Why do they call it Mantrap Gulch?"

"It got its name before my time in the days when outlaws hid here. A
hunted man came to Lost Caon, a murderer wanted by the law for more
crimes than one. He was well treated by the settlers. They gave him
shelter and work. He was safe, and he knew it. But he tried to make
his peace with the law outside by breaking the law of the valley. He
knew that two men were lying hid in a pocket gulch, opening from the
valley-- men who were wanted for train robbery. He wrote to the
company offering to betray these men if they would pay him the reward
and see that he was not punished for his crimes.

"It seems he was suspected. His letter was opened, and the exits from
the valley were both guarded. Knowing he was discovered, he tried to
slip out by the river way. He failed, sneaked through the settlement
at night, and slipped into the caon here. At this end of it he found
armed men on guard. He ran back and found the entrance closed. He was
in a trap. He tried to climb one of the walls. Do you see that point
where the rock juts out?"

"About five hundred feet up? Yes."

"He managed to climb that high. Nobody ever knows how he did it, but
when morning broke there he was, like a fly on a wall. His hunters
came and saw him. I suppose he could hear them laughing as their
voices came echoing up to him. They shot above him, below him, on
either side of him. He knew they were playing with him, and that they
would finish him when they got ready. He must have been half crazy
with fear. Anyhow, he lost his hold and fell. He was dead before they
reached him. From that day this has been called Mantrap Gulch."

The ranger looked up at the frowning walls which shut out the
sunlight. His imagination pictured the drama-- the hunted man's wild
flight up the gulch; his dreadful discovery that it was closed; his
desperate attempt to climb by moonlight the impossible cliff, and the
tragedy that overtook him.

The girl spoke again softly, almost as if she were in the presence of
that far-off Nemesis. "I suppose he deserved,it. It's an awful thing
to be a traitor; to sell the people who have befriended you. We can't
put ourselves in his place and know why he did it. All we can say is
that we're glad-- glad that we have never known men who do such
things. Do you think people always felt a sort of shrinking when they
were near him, or did he seem just like other men?"

Glancing at the man who rode beside her, she cried out at the stricken
look on his face. "It's your heart again. You're worn out with anxiety
and privations. I should have remembered and come slower," she
reproached herself.

"I'm all right-- now. It passes in a moment," he said hoarsely.

But she had already slipped from the saddle and was at his bridle
rein. "No-- no. You must get down. We have plenty of time. We'll rest
here till you are better."

There was nothing for it but to obey. He dismounted, feeling himself a
humbug and a scoundrel. He sat down on a mossy rock, his back against
another, while she trailed the reins and joined him.

"You are better now, aren't you?" she asked, as she seated herself on
an adjacent bowlder.

Gruffly he answered: "I'm all right."

She thought she understood. Men do not like to be coddled. She began
to talk cheerfully of the first thing that came into her head. He made
the necessary monosyllabic responses when her speech put it up to him,
but she saw that his mind was brooding over something else. Once she
saw his gaze go up to the point on the cliff reached by the fugitive.

But it was not until they were again in the saddle that he spoke.

"Yes, he got what was coming to him. He had no right to complain."

"That's what my father says. I don't deny the justice of it, but
whenever I think of it, I feel sorry for him."

"Why?"

Despite the quietness of the monosyllable, she divined an eager
interest back of his question.

"He must have suffered so. He wasn't a brave man, they say. And he was
one against many. They didn't hunt him. They just closed the trap and
let him wear himself out trying to get through. Think of that awful
week of hunger and exposure in the hills before the end!"

"It must have been pretty bad, especially if he wasn't a game man. But
he had no legitimate kick coming. He took his chance and lost. It was
up to him to pay."

"His name was David Burke. When he was a little boy I suppose his
mother used to call him Davy. He wasn't bad then; just a little boy to
be cuddled and petted. Perhaps he was married. Perhaps he had a
sweetheart waiting for him outside, and praying for him. And they
snuffed his life out as if he had been a rattlesnake."

"Because he was a miscreant and it was best he shouldn't live. Yes,
they did right. I would have helped do it in their place."

"My father did," she sighed.

They did not speak again until they had passed from between the chill
walls to the warm sunshine of the valley beyond. Among the rocks above
the trail, she glimpsed some early anemones blossoming bravely.

She drew up with a little cry of pleasure. "They're the first I have
seen. I must have them."

Fraser swung from the saddle, but he was not quick enough. She reached
them before he did, and after they had gathered them she insisted upon
sitting down again.

He had his suspicions, and voiced them. "I believe you got me off just
to make me sit down."

She laughed with deep delight. "I didn't, but since we are here we
shall." And she ended debate by sitting down tailor-fashion, and
beginning to arrange her little bouquet.

A meadow lark, troubadour of spring, trilled joyously somewhere in the
pines above. The man looked up, then down at the vivid creature busy
with her flowers at his feet. There was kinship between the two. She,
too, was athrob with the joy note of spring.

"You're to sit down," she ordered, without looking up from the sheaf
of anemone blossoms she was arranging.

He sank down beside her, aware vaguely of something new and poignant
in his life.

  CHAPTER V

 JED BRISCOE TAKES A HAND

Suddenly a footfall, and a voice:

"Hello, Arlie! I been looking for you everywhere."

The Texan's gaze took in a slim dark man, goodlooking after a fashion,
but with dissipation written on the rather sullen face.

"Well, you've found me," the girl answered coolly.

"Yes, I've found you," the man answered, with a steady, watchful eye
on the Texan.

Miss Dillon was embarrassed at this plain hostility, but indignation
too sparkled in her eye. "Anything in particular you want?"

The newcomer ignored her question. His hard gaze challenged the
Southerner; did more than challenge-- weighed and condemned.

But this young woman was not used to being ignored. Her voice took on
an edge of sharpness.

"What can I do for you, Jed?"

"Who's your friend?" the man demanded bluntly, insolently.

Arlie's flush showed the swift, upblazing resentment she immediately
controlled. "Mr. Fraser-- just arrived from Texas. Mr. Fraser, let me
introduce to you Mr. Briscoe."

The Texan stepped forward to offer his hand, but Briscoe deliberately
put both of his behind him.

"Might I ask what Mr. Fraser, just arrived from Texas, is doing here?"
the young man drawled, contriving to make an insult of every syllable.

The girl's eyes flashed dangerously. "He is here as my guest."

"Oh, as your guest!"

"Doesn't it please you, Jed?"

"Have I said it didn't please me?" he retorted smoothly.

"Your looks say it."

He let out a sudden furious oath. "Then my looks don't lie any."

Fraser was stepping forward, but with a gesture Arlie held him back.
This was her battle, not his.

"What have you got to say about it?" she demanded.

"You had no right to bring him here. Who is he anyhow?"

"I think that is his business, and mine."

"I make it mine," he declared hotly. "I've heard about this fellow
from your father. You met up with him on the trail. He says his name
is Fraser. You don't even know whether that is true. He may be a spy.
How do you know he ain't?"

"How do I know you aren't?" she countered swiftly.

"You've known me all my life. Did you ever see him before?"

"Never."

"Well, then!"

"He risked his life to save ours."

"Risked nothing! It was a trick, I tell you."

"It makes no difference to me what you tell me. Your opinion can't
affect mine."

"You know the feeling of the valley just now about strangers," said
Briscoe sullenly.

"It depends on who the stranger is."

"Well, I object to this one."

"So it seems; but I don't know any law that makes me do whatever you
want me to." Her voice, low and clear, cut like a whiplash.

Beneath the dust of travel the young man's face burned with anger.
"We're not discussing that just now. What I say is that you had no
right to bring him here-- not now, especially. You know why," he
added, almost in a whisper.

"If you had waited and not attempted to brow-beat me, I would have
shown you that that is the very reason I had to bring him."

"How do you mean?"

"Never mind what I mean. You have insulted my friend, and through him,
me. That is enough for one day." She turned from him haughtily and
spoke to the Texan. "If you are ready, Mr. Fraser, we'll be going
now."

The ranger, whose fingers had been itching to get at the throat of
this insolent young man, turned without a word and obediently brought
the girl's pony, then helped her to mount. Briscoe glared, in a silent
tempest of passion.

"I think I have left a glove and my anemones where we were sitting,"
the girl said sweetly to the Texan.

Fraser found them, tightened the saddle girth, and mounted Teddy. As
they cantered away, Arlie called to him to look at the sunset behind
the mountains.

From the moment of her dismissal of Briscoe the girl had apparently
put him out of her thoughts. No fine lady of the courts could have
done it with more disdainful ease. And the Texan, following her lead,
played his part in the little comedy, ignoring the other man as
completely as she did.

The young cattleman, furious, his teeth set in impotent rage, watched
it all with the lust to kill in his heart. When they had gone, he
flung himself into the saddle and rode away in a tumultuous fury.

Before they had covered two hundred yards Arlie turned to her
companion, all contrition. "There! I've done it again. My fits of
passion are always getting me into trouble. This time one of them has
given you an enemy, and a bad one, too."

"No. He would have been my enemy no rnatter what you said. Soon as he
put his eyes on me, I knew it."

"Because I brought you here, you mean?"

"I don't mean only that. Some folks are born to be enemies, just as
some are born to be friends. They've only got to look in each other's
eyes once to know it."

"That's strange. I never heard anybody else say that. Do you really
mean it?"

"Yes."

"And did you ever have such an enemy before? Don't answer me if I
oughtn't to ask that," she added quickly.

"Yes."

"Where?"

"In Texas. Why, here we are at a ranch!"

"Yes. It's ours, and yours as long as you want to stay. Did you feel
that you were enemies the moment you saw this man in Texas?"

"I knew we were going to have trouble as soon as we looked at each
other. I had no feeling toward him, but he had toward me."

"And did you have trouble?"

"Some, before I landed him. The way it turned out he had most of it."

She glanced quickly at him. "What do you mean by 'landed'?"

"I am an officer in the Texas Rangers."

"What are they? Something like our forest rangers?"

"No. The duty of a Texas Ranger is to enforce the law against
desperadoes. We prevent crime if we can. When we can't do that, we
hunt down the criminals."

Arlie looked at him in a startled silence.

"You are an officer of the law-- a sort of sheriff?" she said, at
last.

"Yes, in Texas. This is Wyoming." He made his distinction, knowing it
was a false one. Somehow he had the feeling of a whipped cur.

"I wish I had known. If you had only told me earlier," she said, so
low as to be almost a whisper.

"I'm sorry. If you like, I'll go away again," he offered.

"No, no. I'm only thinking that it gives Jed a hold, gives him
something to stir up his friends with, you know. That is, it would if
he knew. He mustn't find out."

"Be frank. Don't make any secret of it. That's the best way," he
advised.

She shook her head. "You don't know Jed's crowd. They'd be suspicious
of any officer, no matter where he came from."

"Far as I can make out, that young man is going to be loaded with
suspicions of me anyhow," he laughed.

"It isn't anything to laugh at. You don't know him," she told him
gravely.

"And can't say I'm suffering to," he drawled.

She looked at him a little impatiently, as if he were a child playing
with gunpowder and unaware of its potentialities.

"Can't you understand? You're not in Texas with your friends all
around you. This is Lost Valley-- and Lost Valley isn't on the map.
Men make their own law here. That is, some of them do. I wouldn't give
a snap of my fingers for your life if the impression spread that you
are a spy. It doesn't matter that I know you're not. Others must feel
it, too."

"I see. And Mr. Briscoe will be a molder of public opinion?"

"So far as he can he will. We must forestall him."

"Beat him to it, and give me a clean bill of moral health, eh?"

She frowned. "This is serious business, my friend."

"I'm taking it that way," he said smilingly.

"I shouldn't have guessed it."

Yet for all his debonair ease the man had an air of quiet competence.
His strong, bronzed face and neck, the set of his shoulders, the light
poise of him in the saddle, the steady confidence of the gray eyes,
all told her as much. She was aware of a curiosity about what was
hidden behind that stone-wall face of his.

"You didn't finish telling me about that enemy in Texas," she
suggested suddenly.

"Oh, there ain't much to tell. He broke out from the pen, where I had
put him when I was a kid. He was a desperado wanted by the
authorities, so I arrested him again."

"Sounds easy."

"He made some trouble, shot up two or three men first." Fraser lifted
his hand absently.

"Is that scar on your hand where he shot you?" Arlie asked.

He looked up in quick surprise. "Now, how did you know that?"

"You were talking of the trouble he made and you looked at your hand,"
she explained. "Where is he now? In the penitentiary?"

"No. He broke away before I got him there."

She had another flash of inspiration. "And you came to Wyoming to get
him again."

"Good gracious, ma'am, but you're ce'tainly a wizard! That's why I
came, though it's a secret."

"What is he wanted for?"

"Robbing a train, three murders and a few other things."

As she swung from her pony in front of the old-fashioned Southern log
house, Artie laughed at him over her shoulder.

"You're a fine officer! Tell all you know to the first girl you meet!"

"Well, you see, the girl happened to be-- you!"

After the manner of the old-fashioned Southern house a wide "gallery"
bisected it from porch to rear. Saddles hung from pegs in the gallery.
Horse blankets and bridles, spurs and saddlebags, lay here and there
in disarray. A disjointed rifle which some one had started to clean
was on the porch. Swiftly Arlie stripped saddle, bridle, and blanket
from her pony and flung them down as a contribution to the general
disorder, and at her suggestion Fraser did the same. A half-grown lad
came running to herd the horses into a corral close at hand.

"I want you when you've finished feeding, Bobbie," Arlie told the lad.
Then briefly to her guest: "This way, please."

She led him into a large, cheerful living room, into which, through
big casement windows, the light streamed. It was a pleasant room,
despite its barbaric touch. There was a grizzly bear skin before the
great open, stone fireplace, and Navajo rugs covered the floor and
hung on the walls. The skin of a silver-tip bear was stretched beneath
a writing desk, a trophy of Arlie's rifle, which hung in a rack above.
Civilization had furnished its quota to the room in a piano, some
books, and a few photographs.

The Texan observed that order reigned here, even though it did not
interfere with the large effect of comfort.

The girl left him, to return presently with her aunt, to whom she
introduced him. Miss Ruth Dillon was a little, bright-eyed old lady,
whose hair was still black, and her step light. Evidently she had her
instructions, for she greeted their guest with charming cordiality,
and thanked him for the service he had rendered her brother and her
niece.

Presently the boy Bobbie arrived for further orders. Arlie went to her
desk and wrote hurriedly.

"You're to give this note to my father," she directed. "Be sure he
gets it himself. You ought to find him down in Jackson's Pocket, if
the drive is from Round Top to-day. But you can ask about that along
the road."

When the boy had gone, Arlie turned to Fraser.

"I want to tell father you're here before Jed gets to him with his
story," she explained. "I've asked him to ride down right away. He'll
probably come in a few hours and spend the night here."

After they had eaten supper they returned to the living room, where a
great fire, built by Jim the negro horse wrangler, was roaring up the
chimney.

It was almost eleven o'clock when horses galloped up and Dillon came
into the house, followed by Jed Briscoe. The latter looked triumphant,
the former embarrassed as he disgorged letters and newspapers from his
pocket.

"I stopped at the office to get the mail as I came down. Here's yore
paper, Ruth."

Miss Dillon pounced eagerly upon the Gimlet Butte Avalanche, and
disappeared with it to her bedroom. She had formerly lived in Gimlet
Butte, and was still keenly interested in the gossip of the town.

Briscoe had scored one against Arlie by meeting her father, telling
his side of the story, and returning with him to the house.
Nevertheless Arlie, after giving him the slightest nod her duty as
hostess would permit, made her frontal attack without hesitation.

"You'll be glad to know, dad, that Mr. Fraser is our guest. He has had
rather a stormy time since we saw him last, and he has consented to
stay with us a few days till things blow over."

Dillon, very ill at ease, shook hands with the Texan, and was
understood to say that he was glad to see him.

"Then you don't look it, dad," Arlie told him, with a gleam of vexed
laughter.

Her father turned reproachfully upon her. "Now, honey, yo' done wrong
to say that. Yo' know Mr. Fraser is welcome to stay in my house long
as he wants. I'm proud to have him stay. Do you think I forgot already
what he done for us?"

"Of course not. Then it's all settled," Arlie cut in, and rushed on to
another subject. "How's the round-up coming, dad?"

"We'll talk about the round-up later. What I'm saying is that Mr,
Fraser has only got to say the word, and I'm there to he'p him till
the cows come home."

"That's just what I told him, dad."

"Hold yore hawsses, will yo', honey? But, notwithstanding which, and
not backing water on that proposition none, we come to another p'int."

"Which Jed made to you carefully on the way down," his daughter
interrupted scornfully.

"It don't matter who made it. The p'int is that there are reasons why
strangers ain't exactly welcome in this valley right now, Mr. Fraser.
This country is full o' suspicion. Whilst it's onjust, charges are
being made against us on the outside. Right now the settlers here have
got to guard against furriners. Now I know yo're all right, Mr.
Fraser. But my neighbors don't know it."

"It was our lives he saved, not our neighbors'," scoffed Arlie.

"K'rect. So I say, Mr. Fraser, if yo' are out o' funds, I'll finance
you. Wherever you want to go I'll see you git there, but I hain't got
the right to invite you to stay in Lost Valley."

"Better send him to Gimlet Butte, dad! He killed a man in helping us
to escape, and he 's wanted bad! He broke jail to get here! Pay his
expenses back to the Butte! Then if there's a reward, you and Jed can
divide it!" his daughter jeered.

"What's that? Killed a man, yo' say?"

"Yes. To save us. Shall we send him back under a rifle guard? Or shall
we have Sheriff Brandt come and get him?"

"Gracious goodness, gyurl, shet up whilst I think. Killed a man, eh?
This valley has always been open to fugitives. Ain't that right, Jed?"

"To fugitives, yes," said Jed significantly. "But that fact ain't
proved."

"Jed's getting right important. We'll soon be asking him whether we
can stay here," said Arlie, with a scornful laugh. "And I say it is
proved. We met the deputies the yon side of the big caon."

Briscoe looked at her out of dogged, half-shuttered eyes. He said
nothing, but he looked the picture of malice.

Dillon rasped his stubbly chin and looked at the Texan. Far from an
alert-minded man, he came to conclusions slowly. Now he arrived at
one.

"Dad burn it, we'll take the 'fugitive' for granted. Yo' kin lie up
here long as yo' like, friend. I'll guarantee yo' to my neighbors. I
reckon if they don't like it they kin lump it. I ain't a-going to give
up the man that saved my gyurl's life."

The door opened and let in Miss Ruth Dillon. The little old lady had
the newspaper in her hand, and her beady eyes were shining with
excitement.

"It's all in here, Mr. Fraser-- about your capture and escape. But you
didn't tell us all of it. Perhaps you didn't know, though, that they
had plans to storm the jail and hang you?"

"Yes, I knew that," the Texan answered coolly. "The jailer told me
what was coming to me. I decided not to wait and see whether he was
lying. I wrenched a bar from the window, lowered myself by my bedding,
flew the coop, and borrowed a horse. That's the whole story, ma'am,
except that Miss Arlie brought me here to hide me."

"Read aloud what the paper says," Dillon ordered.

His sister handed the Avalanche to her niece. Arlie found the article
and began to read:

"A dastardly outrage occurred three miles from Gimlet Butte last
night. While on their way home from the trial of the well-known Three
Pines sheep raid case, a small party of citizens were attacked by
miscreants presumed to be from the Cedar Mountain country. How many of
these there were we have no means of knowing, as the culprits
disappeared in the mountains after murdering William Faulkner, a
well-known sheep man, and wounding Tom Long."

There followed a lurid account of the battle, written from the point
of view of the other side. After which the editor paid his respects to
Fraser, though not by name.

"One of the ruffians, for some unknown reason-- perhaps in the hope of
getting a chance to slay another victim-- remained too long near the
scene of the atrocity and was apprehended early this morning by that
fearless deputy, James Schilling. He refused to give his name or any
other information about himself. While the man is a stranger to Gimlet
Butte, there can be no doubt that he is one of the Lost Valley
desperadoes implicated in the Squaw Creek raid some months ago. Since
the bullet that killed Faulkner was probably fired from the rifle
carried by this man, it is safe to assume that the actual murderer was
apprehended. The man is above medium height, well built and muscular,
and carries all the earmarks of a desperate character."

Arlie glanced up from her reading to smile at Fraser. "Dad and I are
miscreants, and you are a ruffian and a desperate character," she told
him gayly.

"Go on, honey," her father urged.

The account told how the prisoner had been confined in the jail, and
how the citizens, wrought up by the continued lawlessness of the Lost
Valley district, had quietly gathered to make an example of the
captured man. While condemning lynching in general, the Avalanche
wanted to go on record as saying that if ever it was justifiable this
was the occasion. Unfortunately, the prisoner, giving thus further
evidence of his desperate nature, had cut his way out of prison with a
pocketknife and escaped from town by means of a horse he found saddled
and did not hesitate to steal. At the time of going to press he had
not yet been recaptured, though Sheriff Brandt had several posses on
his trail. The outlaw had cut the telephone wires, but it was
confidently believed he would be captured before he reached his
friends in the mountains.

Arlie's eyes were shining. She looked at Briscoe and handed him the
paper triumphantly. This was her vindication for bringing the hunted
man to Lost Valley. He had been fighting their battles and had almost
lost his life in doing it. Jed might say what he liked while she had
this to refute him.

"I guess that editor doesn't believe so confidently as he pretends,"
she said. "Anyhow, he has guessed wrong. Mr. Fraser has reached his
friends, and they'll look out for him."

Her father came to her support radiantly. "You bet yore boots they
will, honey. Shake hands on it, Mr. Fraser. I reckon yore satisfied
too, Jed. Eh, boy?"

Briscoe viewed the scene with cynical malice. "Quite a hero, ain't he?
If you want to know, I stand pat. Mr. Fraser from Texas don't draw the
wool over my eyes none. Right now I serve notice to that effect.
Meantime, since I don't aim to join the happy circle of his admirers,
I reckon I'll duck."

He nodded impudently at Arlie, turned on his heel, and went trailing
off with jingling spur. They heard him cursing at his horse as he
mounted. The cruel swish of a quirt came to them, after which the
swift pounding of a horse's hoofs. The cow pony had found its gallop
in a stride.

The Texan laughed lightly. "Exit Mr. Briscoe, some disappointed," he
murmured.

He noticed that none of the others shared his mirth.

  CHAPTER VI

 A SURE ENOUGH WOLF

Briscoe did not return at once to the scene of the round-up. He
followed the trail toward Jackson's Pocket, but diverged after he had
gone a few miles and turned into one of the hundred blind gulches that
ran out from the valley to the impassable mountain wall behind. It was
known as Jack Rabbit Run, because its labyrinthine trails offered a
retreat into which hunted men might always dive for safety. Nobody
knew its recesses better than Jed Briscoe, who was acknowledged to be
the leader of that faction in the valley which had brought it the bad
name it held.

Long before Jed's time there had been such a faction, then the
dominant one of the place, now steadily losing ground as civilization
seeped in, but still strong because bound by ties of kindred and of
interest to the honest law-abiding majority. Of it were the outlaws
who came periodically to find shelter here, the hasty men who had
struck in heat and found it necessary to get beyond the law's reach
for a time, and reckless cowpunchers, who foregathered with these,
because they were birds of a feather. To all such, Jack Rabbit Run was
a haven of rest.

By devious paths the cattleman guided his horse until he came to a
kind of pouch, guarded by a thick growth of aspens. The front of these
he skirted, plunged into them at the farther edge, and followed a
narrow trail which wound among them till the grove opened upon a
saucer-shaped valley in which nestled a little log cabin. Lights
gleamed from the windows hospitably and suggested the comfortable
warmth of a log fire and good-fellowship. So many a hunted man had
thought as he emerged from that grove to look down upon the valley
nestling at his feet.

Jed turned his horse into a corral back of the house, let out the hoot
of an owl as he fed and watered, and returning to the cabin, gave the
four knocks that were the signal for admission.

Bolts were promptly withdrawn and the door thrown open by a slender,
fair-haired fellow, whose features looked as if they had been roughed
out and not finished. He grinned amiably at the newcomer and greeted
him with: "Hello, Jed."

"Hello, Tommie," returned Briscoe, carelessly, and let his glance pass
to the three men seated at the table with cards and poker chips in
front of them, The man facing Briscoe was a big, heavy-set,
unmistakable ruffian with long, drooping, red mustache, and
villainous, fishy eyes. It was observable that the trigger finger of
his right hand was missing. Also, there was a nasty scar on his right
cheek running from the bridge of the nose halfway to the ear. This
gave surplusage to the sinister appearance he already had. To him
Briscoe spoke first, attempting a geniality he did not feel.

"How're they coming, Texas?"

"You ain't heard me kicking any, have you?" the man made sullen
answer.

"Not out loud," said Briscoe significantly, his eyes narrowing after a
trick they had when he was most on his guard.

"I reckon my remarks will be plumb audible when I've got any kick to
register, seh."

"I hope not, Mr. Johnson. In this neck of woods a man is liable to get
himself disliked if he shoots off his mouth too prevalent. Folks that
don't like our ways can usually find a door open out of Lost Valley--
-if they don't wait too long!"

"I'm some haidstrong. I reckon I'll stay." He scowled at Jed with
disfavor, meeting him eye to eye. But presently the rigor of his gaze
relaxed. Me remembered that he was a fugitive from justice, and at the
mercy of this man who had so far guessed his secret. Putting a
temporary curb on his bilious jealousy, he sulkily added: "Leastways,
if there's no objection, Mr. Briscoe. I ain't looking for trouble with
anybody."

"A man who's looking for it usually finds it, Mr. Johnson. A man that
ain't, lives longer and more peaceable." At this point Jed pulled
himself together and bottled his arrogance, remembering that he had
come to make an alliance with this man. "But that's no way for friends
to talk. I got a piece of news for you. We'll talk it over in the
other room and not disturb these gentlemen."

One of the "gentlemen" grinned. He was a round-bodied, bullet-headed
cowpuncher, with a face like burnt leather. He was in chaps, flannel
shirt, and broad-brimmed hat. From a pocket in his chaps a revolver
protruded. "That's right, Jed. Wrap it up proper. You'd hate to
disturb us, wouldn't you?"

"I'll not interrupt you from losing your money more than five minutes,
Yorky," answered Briscoe promptly.

The third man at the table laughed suddenly. "Ay bane laik to know how
yuh feel now, Yorky?" he taunted.

"It ain't you that's taking my spondulix in, you big, overgrown
Swede!" returned Yorky amiably. "It's the gent from Texas. How can a
fellow buck against luck that fills from a pair to a full house on the
draw?"

The blond giant, Siegfried-- who was not a Swede, but a Norwegian--
announced that he was seventeen dollars in the game himself.

Tommie, already broke, and an onlooker, reported sadly.

"Sixty-one for me, durn it!"

Jed picked up a lamp, led the way to the other room, and closed the
door behind them.

"I thought it might interest you to know that there's a new arrival in
the valley, Mr. Struve," he said smoothly.

"Who says my name's Struve?" demanded the man who called himself
Johnson, with fierce suspicion.

Briscoe laughed softly. "I say it-- Wolf Struve. Up till last month
your address for two years has been number nine thousand four hundred
and thirty-two, care of Penitentiary Warden, Yuma, Arizona."

"Prove it. Prove it," blustered the accused man.

"Sure." From his inside coat pocket Jed took out a printed notice
offering a reward for the capture of Nick Struve, alias "Wolf" Struve,
convict, who had broken prison on the night of February seventh, and
escaped, after murdering one of the guards. A description and a
photograph of the man wanted was appended.

"Looks some like you. Don't it, Mr.-- shall I say Johnson or Struve?"

"Say Johnson!" roared the Texan. "That ain't me. I'm no jailbird."

"Glad to know it." Briscoe laughed in suave triumph. "I thought you
might be. This description sounds some familiar. I'll not read it all.
But listen: 'Scar on right cheek, running from bridge of nose toward
ear. Trigger finger missing; shot away when last arrested. Weight,
about one hundred and ninety.' By the way, just out of curiosity, how
heavy are you, Mr. Johnson? 'Height, five feet nine inches.
Protuberant, fishy eyes. Long, drooping, reddish mustache.' I'd shave
that mustache if I were you, Mr.-- er-- Johnson. Some one might
mistake you for Nick Struve."

The man who called himself Johnson recognized denial as futile. He
flung up the sponge with a blasphemous oath. "What do you want? What's
your game? Do you want to sell me for the reward? By thunder, you'd
better not!"

Briscoe gave way to one of the swift bursts of passion to which he was
subject. "Don't threaten me, you prison scum! Don't come here and try
to dictate what I'm to do, and what I'm not to do. I'll sell you if I
want to. I'll send you back to be hanged like a dog. Say the word, and
I'll have you dragged out of here inside of forty-eight hours."

Struve reached for his gun, but the other, wary as a panther, had him
covered while the convict's revolver was still in his pocket.

"Reach for the roof! Quick-- or I'll drill a hole in you! That's the
idea. I reckon I'll collect your hardware while I'm at it. That's a
heap better."

Struve glared at him, speechless.

"You're too slow on the draw for this part of the country, my friend,"
jeered Briscoe. "Or perhaps, while you were at Yuma, you got out of
practice. It's like stealing candy from a kid to beat you to it. Don't
ever try to draw a gun again in Lost Valley while you're asleep. You
might never waken."

Jed was in high good humor with himself. His victim looked silent
murder at him.

"One more thing, while you're in a teachable frame of mind," continued
Briscoe. "I run Lost Valley. What I say, goes here. Get that soaked
into your think-tank, my friend. Ever since you came, you've been
disputing that in your mind. You've been stirring up the boys against
me. Think I haven't noticed it? Guess again, Mr. Struve. You'd like to
be boss yourself, wouldn't you? Forget it. Down in Texas you may be a
bad, bad man, a sure enough wolf, but in Wyoming you only stack up to
coyote size. Let this slip your mind, and I'll be running Lost Valley
after your bones are picked white by the buzzards."

"I ain't a-goin' to make you any trouble. Didn't I tell you that
before?" growled Struve reluctantly.

"See you don't, then. Now I'll come again to my news. I was telling
you that there's another stranger in this valley, Mr. Struve. Hails
from Texas, too. Name of Fraser. Ever hear of him?"

Briscoe was hardly prepared for the change which came over the Texan
at mention of that name. The prominent eyes stared, and a deep,
apoplectic flush ran over the scarred face. The hand that caught at
the wall trembled with excitement.

"You mean Steve Fraser-- Fraser of the Rangers!" he gasped.

"That's what I'm not sure of. I got to milling it over after I left
him, and it come to me I'd seen him or his picture before. You still
got that magazine with the article about him?"

"Yes,"

"I looked it over hurriedly. Let me see his picture again, and I'll
tell you if it's the same man."

"It's in the other room."

"Get it."

Struve presently returned with the magazine, and, opening it, pointed
to a photograph of a young officer in uniform, with the caption
underneath:

            LIEUTENANT STEPHEN FRASER OF THE TEXAS RANGERS
Who, single-handed, ran down and brought to justice the worst gang of
                    outlaws known in recent years.

"It's the same man," Briscoe announced.

The escaped convict's mouth set in a cruel line.

"One of us, either him or me, never leaves this valley alive," he
announced.

Jed laughed softly and handed back the revolver. "That's the way to
talk. My friend, if you mean that, you'll need your gun. Here's hoping
you beat him to it."

"It won't be an even break this time if I can help it."

"I gather that it was, last time."

"Yep. We drew together." Struve interlarded his explanation with
oaths. "He's a devil with a gun. See that?" He held up his right band.

"I see you're shy your most useful finger, if that's what you mean."

"Fraser took it off clean at twenty yards. I got him in the hand, too,
but right or left he's a dead shot. He might 'a' killed me if he
hadn't wanted to take me alive. Before I'm through with him he'll wish
he had."

"Well, you don't want to make any mistake next time. Get him right."

"I sure will." Hitherto Struve had been absorbed in his own turbid
emotions, but he came back from them now with a new-born suspicion in
his eyes. "Where do you come in, Mr. Briscoe? Why are you so plumb
anxious I should load him up with lead? If it's a showdown, I'd some
like to see your cards too."

Jed shrugged. "My reasons ain't urgent like yours. I don't favor spies
poking their noses in here. That's all there's to it."

Jed had worked out a plot as he rode through the night from the Dillon
ranch-- one so safe and certain that it pointed to sure success. Jed
was no coward, but he had a spider-like cunning that wove others as
dupes into the web of his plans.

The only weakness in his position lay in himself, in that sudden
boiling up of passion in him that was likely to tear through his own
web and destroy it. Three months ago he had given way to one of these
outbursts, and he knew that any one of four or five men could put a
noose around his neck. That was another reason why such a man as this
Texas ranger must not be allowed to meet and mix with them.

It was his cue to know as much as he could of every man that came into
the valley. Wherefore he had run down the record of Struve from the
reward placard which a detective agency furnished him of hundreds of
criminals who were wanted. What could be more simple than to stir up
the convict, in order to save himself, to destroy the ranger who had
run him down before? There would be a demand so insistent for the
punishment of the murderer that it could not be ignored. He would find
some pretext to lure Struve from the valley for a day or two, and
would arrange it so that he would be arrested while he was away. Thus
he would be rid of both these troublesome intruders without making a
move that could be seen.

It was all as simple as A B C. Already Struve had walked into the
trap. As Jed sat down to take a hand in the poker game that was in
progress, he chuckled quietly to himself. He was quite sure that he
was already practically master of the situation.

  CHAPTER VII

 THE ROUND-UP

"Would you like to take in the round-up to-day?"

Arlie flung the question at Fraser with a frank directness of
sloe-black eyes that had never known coquetry. She was washing
handkerchiefs, and her sleeves were rolled to the elbows of the
slender, but muscular, coffee-brown arms.

"I would."

"If you like you may ride out with me to Willow Spring. I have some
letters to take to dad."

"Suits me down to the ground, ma'am."

It was a morning beautiful even for Wyoming. The spring called
potently to the youth in them. The fine untempered air was like wine,
and out of a blue sky the sun beat pleasantly down through a
crystal-clear atmosphere known only to the region of the Rockies.
Nature was preaching a wordless sermon on the duty of happiness to two
buoyant hearts that scarce needed it.

Long before they reached the scene of the round-up they could hear the
almost continual bawl of worried cattle, and could even see the cloud
of dust they stirred. They passed the remuda, in charge of two lads
lounging sleepily in their saddles with only an occasional glance at
the bunch of grazing horses they were watching. Presently they looked
down from a high ridge at the busy scene below.

Out of Lost Valley ran a hundred rough and wooded gulches to the
impassable cliff wall which bounded it. Into one of these they now
descended slowly, letting their ponies pick a way among the loose
stones and shale which covered the steep hillside.

What their eyes fell upon was cattle-land at its busiest. Several
hundred wild hill cattle were gathered in the green draw, and around
them was a cordon of riders holding the gather steady. Now and again
one of the cows would make a dash to escape, and instantly the nearest
rider would wheel, as on a batter's plate, give chase, and herd the
animal back after a more or less lengthy pursuit.

Several of the riders were cutting out from the main herd cows with
unmarked calves, which last were immediately roped and thrown. Usually
it took only an instant to determine with whose cow the calf had been,
and a few seconds to drive home the correct brand upon the sizzling
flank. Occasionally the discussion was more protracted, in order to
solve a doubt as to the ownership, and once a calf was released that
it might again seek its mother to prove identity.

Arlie observed that Fraser's eyes were shining.

"I used to be a puncher myse'f," he explained. "I tell you it feels
good to grip a saddle between your knees, and to swallow the dust and
hear the bellow of the cows. I used to live in them days. I sure did."

A boyish puncher galloped past with a whoop and waved his hat to
Arlie. For two weeks he had been in the saddle for fourteen hours out
of the twenty-four. He was grimy with dust, and hollow-eyed from want
of sleep. A stubbly beard covered his brick-baked face. But the
unquenchable gayety of the youthful West could not be extinguished.
Though his flannel shirt gaped where the thorns had torn it, and the
polka-dot bandanna round his throat was discolored with sweat, he was
as blithely debonair as ever.

"That's Dick France. He's a great friend of mine," Arlie explained.

"Dick's in luck," Fraser commented, but whether because he was
enjoying himself so thoroughly or because he was her friend the ranger
did not explain.

They stayed through the day, and ate dinner at the tail of the chuck
wagon with the cattlemen. The light of the camp fires, already blazing
in the nipping night air, shone brightly. The ranger rode back with
her to the ranch, but next morning he asked Arlie if she could lend
him an old pair of chaps discarded by her father.

She found a pair for him.

"If you don't mind, I'll ride out to the round-up and stay with the
boys a few days," he suggested.

"You're going to ride with them," she accused.

"I thought I would. I'm not going to saddle myse'f on you two ladies
forever."

"You know we're glad to have you. But that isn't it. What about your
heart? You know you can't ride the range."

He flushed, and knew again that feeling of contempt for himself, or,
to be more exact, for his position.

"I'll be awful careful, Miss Arlie," was all he found to say.

She could not urge him further, lest he misunderstand her.

"Of course, you know best," she said, with a touch of coldness.

He saddled Teddy and rode back. The drive for the day was already on,
but he fell in beside young France and did his part. Before two days
had passed he was accepted as one of these hard-riding punchers, for
he was a competent vaquero and stood the grueling work as one born to
it. He was, moreover, well liked, both because he could tell a good
story and because these sons of Anak recognized in him that dynamic
quality of manhood they could not choose but respect. In this a
fortunate accident aided him.

They were working Lost Creek, a deep and rapid stream at the point
where the drive ended. The big Norwegian, Siegfried, trying to head
off a wild cow racing along the bank with tail up, got too near the
edge. The bank caved beneath the feet of his pony, and man and horse
went head first into the turbid waters. Fraser galloped up at once,
flung himself from his saddle, and took in at a glance the fact that
the big blond Hercules could not swim.

The Texan dived for him as he was going down, got hold of him by the
hair, and after a struggle managed somehow to reach the farther shore.
As they both lay there, one exhausted, and the other fighting for the
breath he had nearly lost forever, Dillon reached the bank.

"Is it all right, Steve?" he called anxiously.

"All right," grinned the ranger weakly. "He'll go on many a spree yet.
Eh, Siegfried?"

The Norwegian nodded. He was still frightened and half drowned. It was
not till they were riding up the creek to find a shallow place they
could ford that he spoke his mind.

"Ay bane all in ven you got me, pardner."

"Oh, you were still kicking."

"Ay bane t'ink Ay had van chance not to get out. But Ay bane not
forget dees. Eef you ever get in a tight place, send vor Sig
Siegfried."

"That's all right, Sig."

Nobody wasted any compliments on him. After the fashion of their kind,
they guyed the Norwegian about the bath he had taken. Nevertheless,
Fraser knew that he had won the liking of these men, as well as their
deep respect. They began to call him by his first name, which hitherto
only Dillon had done, and they included him in the rough, practical
jokes they played on each other.

One night they initiated him-- an experience to be both dreaded and
desired. To be desired because it implies the conferring of the
thirty-second degree of the freemasonry of Cattleland's approval; to
be dreaded because hazing is mild compared with some features of the
exercises.

Fraser was dragged from sweet slumber, pegged face down on his
blankets, with a large-sized man at the extremity of each arm and leg,
and introduced to a chapping. Dick France wielded the chaps vigorously
upon the portions of his anatomy where they would do the most
execution. The Texan did not enjoy it, but he refrained from saying
so. When he was freed, he sat down painfully on a saddle and remarked
amiably:

"You're a beautiful bunch, ain't you? Anybody got any smoking?"

This proper acceptance of their attentions so delighted these
overgrown children that they dug up three bottles of whisky that were
kept in camp for rattlesnake bites, and made Rome howl. They had
ridden all day, and for many weary days before that; but they were
started toward making a night of it when Dillon appeared.

Dillon was boss of the round-up-- he had been elected by general
consent, and his word was law. He looked round upon them with a
twinkling eye, and wanted to know how long it was going to last. But
the way he put his question was:

"How much whisky is there left?"

Finding there was none, he ordered them all back to their blankets.
After a little skylarking, they obeyed. Next day Fraser rode the
hills, a sore, sore man. But nobody who did not know could have
guessed it. He would have died before admitting it to any of his
companions. Thus he won the accolade of his peers as a worthy
horse-man of the hills.

  CHAPTER VIII

 THE BRONCHO BUSTERS

Jed Briscoe rejoined the round-up the day following Fraser's
initiation. He took silent note of the Texan's popularity, of how the
boys all called him "Steve" because he had become one of them, and
were ready either to lark with him or work with him. He noticed, too,
that the ranger did his share of work without a whimper, apparently
enjoying the long, hard hours in the saddle. The hill riding was of
the roughest, and the cattle were wild as deers and as agile. But
there was no break-neck incline too steep for Steve Fraser to follow.

Once Jed chanced upon Steve stripped for a bath beside the creek, and
he understood the physical reason for his perfect poise. The wiry,
sinuous muscles, packed compactly without obtrusion, played beneath
the skin like those of a panther. He walked as softly and as easily as
one, with something of the rippling, unconscious grace of that jungle
lord. It was this certainty of himself that vivified the steel-gray
eyes which looked forth unafraid, and yet amiably, upon a world
primitive enough to demand proof of every man who would hold the
respect of his fellows.

Meanwhile, Briscoe waited for Struve and his enemy to become entangled
in the net he was spinning. He made no pretense of fellowship with
Fraser; nor, on the other hand, did he actively set himself against
him with the men. He was ready enough to sneer when Dick France grew
enthusiastic about his new friend, but this was to be expected from
one of his jaundiced temper.

"Who is this all-round crackerjack you're touting, Dick?" he asked
significantly.

France was puzzled. "Who is he? Why, he's Steve Fraser."

"I ain't asking you what his name is. I'm asking who he is. What does
he do for a living? Who recommended him so strong to the boys that
they take up with him so sudden?"

"I don't care what he does for a living. Likely, he rides the range in
Texas. When it comes to recommendations, he's got one mighty good one
written on his face,"

"You think so, do you?"

"That's what I think, Jed. He's the goods-- best of company, a
straight-up rider, and a first-rate puncher. Ask any of the boys."

"I'm using my eyes, Dick. They tell me all I need to know."

"Well, use them to-morrow. He's going to take a whirl at riding Dead
Easy. Next day he's going to take on Rocking Horse. If he makes good
on them, you'll admit he can ride."

"I ain't saying he can't ride. So can you. If it's plumb gentle, I can
make out to stick on a pony myself."

"Course you can ride. Everybody knows that. You're the best ever. Any
man that can win the championship of Wyoming---- But you'll say
yourself them strawberry roans are wicked devils."

"He hasn't ridden them yet, Dick."

"He's going to."

"We'll be there to see it. Mebbe he will. Mebbe he won't. I've known
men before who thought they were going to."

It was in no moment of good-natured weakness that Fraser had consented
to try riding the outlaw horses. Nor had his vanity anything to do
with it. He knew a time might be coming when he would need all the
prestige and all the friendship he could earn to tide him over the
crisis. Jed Briscoe had won his leadership, partly because he could
shoot quicker and straighter, ride harder, throw a rope more
accurately, and play poker better than his companions,

Steve had a mind to show that he, too, could do some of these things
passing well. Wherefore, he had let himself be badgered good-naturedly
into trying a fall with these famous buckers. As the heavy work of the
round-up was almost over, Dillon was glad to relax discipline enough
to give the boys a little fun.

The remuda was driven up while the outfit was at breakfast. His
friends guyed Steve with pleasant prophecy.

"He'll be hunting leather about the fourth buck!"

"If he ain't trying to make of himse'f one of them there Darius Green
machines!" suggested another.

"Got any last words, Steve? Dead Easy most generally eats 'em alive,"
Dick derided.

"Sho! Cayn't you see he's so plumb scared he cayn't talk?"

Fraser grinned and continued to eat. When he had finished he got his
lariat from the saddle, swung to Siegfried's pony, and rode
unobtrusively forward to the remuda. The horses were circling round
and round, so that it was several minutes before he found a chance.
When he did, the rope snaked forward and dropped over the head of the
strawberry roan. The horse stood trembling, making not the least
resistance, even while the ranger saddled and cinched.

But before the man settled to the saddle, the outlaw was off on its
furious resistance. It went forward and up into the air with a
plunging leap. The rider swung his hat and gave a joyous whoop. Next
instant there was a scatter of laughing men as the horse came toward
them in a series of short, stiff-legged bucks which would have jarred
its rider like a pile driver falling on his head had he not let
himself grow limp to meet the shock.

All the tricks of its kind this unbroken five-year-old knew. Weaving,
pitching, sunfishing, it fought superbly, the while Steve rode with
the consummate ease of a master. His sinuous form swayed instinctively
to every changing motion of his mount. Even when it flung itself back
in blind fury, he dropped lightly from the saddle and into it again as
the animal struggled to its feet.

The cook waved a frying pan in frantic glee. "Hurra-ay! You're the
goods, all right, all right."

"You bet. Watch Steve fan him. And he ain't pulled leather yet. Not
once."

An unseen spectator was taking it in from the brow of a little hill
crowned with a group of firs. She had reached this point just as the
Texan had swung to the saddle, and she watched the battle between
horse and man intently. If any had been there to see, he might have
observed a strange fire smouldering in her eyes. For the first time
there was filtering through her a vague suspicion of this man who
claimed to have heart trouble, and had deliberately subjected himself
to the terrific strain of such a test. She had seen broncho busters
get off bleeding at mouth and nose and ears after a hard fight, and
she had never seen a contest more superbly fought than this one. But
full of courage as the horse was, it had met its master and began to
know it.

The ranger's quirt was going up and down, stinging Dead Easy to more
violent exertions, if possible. But the outlaw had shot its bolt. The
plunges grew less vicious, the bucks more feeble. It still pitched,
because of the unbroken gameness that defied defeat, but so
mechanically that the motions could be forecasted.

Then Steve began to soothe the brute. Somehow the wild creatu ecame
aware that this man who was his master was also disposed to be
friendly. Presently it gave up the battle, quivering in every limb.
Fraser slipped from the saddle, and putting his arm across its neck
began to gentle the outlaw. The animal had always looked the
incarnation of wickedness. The red eyes in its ill-shaped head were
enough to give one bad dreams. A quarter of an hour before, it had bit
savagely at him. Now it stood breathing deep, and trembling while its
master let his hand pass gently over the nose and neck with soft words
that slowly won the pony back from the terror into which it had worked
itself.

"You did well, Mr. Fraser from Texas," Jed complimented him, with a
smile that thinly hid his malice. "But it won't do to have you going
back to Texas with the word that Wyoming is shy of riders. I ain't any
great shakes, but I reckon I'll have to take a whirl at Rocking
Horse." He had decided to ride for two reasons. One was that he had
glimpsed the girl among the firs; the other was to dissipate the
admiration his rival had created among the men.

Briscoe lounged toward the remuda, rope in hand. It was his cue to get
himself up picturesquely in all the paraphernalia of the cowboy.
Black-haired and white-toothed, lithe as a wolf, and endowed with a
grace almost feline, it was easy to understand how this man appealed
to the imagination of the reckless young fellows of this primeval
valley. Everything he did was done well. Furthermore, he looked and
acted the part of leader which he assumed.

Rocking Horse was in a different mood from its brother. It was hard to
rope, and when Jed's raw-hide had fallen over its head it was
necessary to renforce the lariat with two others. Finally the pony
had to be flung down before a saddle could be put on. When Siegfried,
who had been kneeling on its head, stepped back, the outlaw staggered
to its feet, already badly shaken, to find an incubus clamped to the
saddle.

No matter how it pitched, the human clothespin stuck to his seat, and
apparently with as little concern as if he had been in a rowboat
gently moved to and fro by the waves. Jed rode like a centaur, every
motion attuned to those of the animal as much as if he were a part of
it. No matter how it pounded or tossed, he stuck securely to the
hurricane deck of the broncho.

Once only he was in danger, and that because Rocking Horse flung
furiously against the wheel of a wagon and ground the rider's leg till
he grew dizzy with the pain. For an instant he caught at the saddle
horn to steady himself as the roan bucked into the open again.

"He's pulling leather!" some one shouted.

"Shut up, you goat!" advised the Texan good-naturedly. "Can't you see
his laig got jammed till he's groggy? Wonder is, he didn't take the
dust! They don't raise better riders than he is."

"By hockey! He's all in. Look out! Jed's falling," France cried,
running forward.

It looked so for a moment, then Jed swam back to clear consciousness
again, and waved them back. He began to use his quirt without mercy.

"Might know he'd game it out," remarked Yorky.

He did. It was a long fight, and the horse was flecked with bloody
foam before its spirit and strength failed. But the man in the saddle
kept his seat till the victory was won.

Steve was on the spot to join heartily the murmur of applause, for he
was too good a sportsman to grudge admiration even to his enemy.

"You're the one best bet in riders, Mr. Briscoe. It's a pleasure to
watch you," he said frankly.

Jed's narrowed eyes drifted to him. "Oh, hell!" he drawled with
insolent contempt, and turned on his heel.

From the clump of firs a young woman was descending, and Jed went to
meet her.

"You rode splendidly," she told him with vivid eyes. "Were you hurt
when you were jammed again the wagon? I mean, does it still hurt?" For
she noticed that he walked with a limp.

"I reckon I can stand the grief without an amputation. Arlie, I got
something to tell you."

She looked at him in her direct fashion and waited.

"It's about your new friend." He drew from a pocket some leaves torn
out of a magazine. His finger indicated a picture. "Ever see that
gentleman before?"

The girl looked at it coolly. "It seems to be Mr. Fraser taken in his
uniform; Lieutenant Fraser, I should say."

The cattleman's face fell. "You know, then, who he is, and what he's
doing here."

Without evasion, her gaze met his. "I understood him to say he was an
officer in the Texas Rangers. You know why he is here."

"You're right, I do. But do you?"

"Well, what is it you mean? Out with it, Jed," she demanded
impatiently.

"He is here to get a man wanted in Texas, a man hiding in this valley
right now."

"I don't believe it," she returned quickly. "And if he is, that's not
your business or mine. It's his duty, isn't it?"

"I ain't discussing that. You know the law of the valley, Arlie."

"I don't accept that as binding, Jed. Lots of people here don't.
Because Lost Valley used to be a nest of miscreants, it needn't always
be. I don't see what right we've got to set ourselves above the law."

"This valley has always stood by hunted men when they reached it.
That's our custom, and I mean to stick to it."

"Very well. I hold you to that," she answered quickly. "This man
Fraser is a hunted man. He's hunted because of what he did for me and
dad. I claim the protection of the valley for him."

"He can have it-- if he's what he says he is. But why ain't he been
square with us? Why didn't he tell who he was?"

"He told me."

"That ain't enough, Arlie. If he did, you kept it quiet. We all had a
right to know."

"If you had asked him, he would have told you."

"I ain't so sure he would. Anyhow, I don't like it. I believe he is
here to get the man I told you of. Mebbe that ain't all."

"What more?" she scoffed.

"This fellow is the best range detective in the country. My notion is
he's spying around about that Squaw Creek raid."

Under the dusky skin she flushed angrily. "My notion is you're daffy,
Jed. Talk sense, and I'll listen to you. You haven't a grain of
proof."

"I may get some yet," he told her sulkily.

She laughed her disbelief. "When you do, let me know,"

And with that she gave her pony the signal to more forward.

Nevertheless, she met the ranger at the foot of the little hill with
distinct coldness. When he came up to shake hands, she was too busy
dismounting to notice.

"Your heart must be a good deal better. I suppose Lost Valley agrees
with you." She had swung down on the other side of the horse, and her
glance at him across the saddle seat was like a rapier thrust.

He was aware at once of being in disgrace with her, and it chafed him
that he had no adequate answer to her implied charge.

"My heart's all right," he said a little gruffly.

"Yes, it seems to be, lieutenant."

She trailed the reins and turned away at once to find her father. The
girl was disappointed in him. He had, in effect, lied to her. That was
bad enough; but she felt that his lie had concealed something, how
much she scarce dared say. Her tangled thoughts were in chaos. One
moment she was ready to believe the worst; the next, it was impossible
to conceive such a man so vile a spy as to reward hospitality with
treachery.

Yet she remembered now that it had been while she was telling of the
fate of the traitor Burke that she had driven him to his lie. Or had
he not told it first when she pointed out Lost Valley at his feet?
Yes, it was at that moment she had noticed his pallor. He had, at
least, conscience enough to be ashamed of what he was doing. But she
recognized a wide margin of difference between the possibilities of
his guilt. It was one thing to come to the valley for an escaped
murderer; it was quite another to use the hospitality of his host as a
means to betray the friends of that host. Deep in her heart she could
not find it possible to convict him of the latter alternative. He was
too much a man, too vitally dynamic. No; whatever else he was, she
felt sure he was not so hopelessly lost to decency. He had that
electric spark of self-respect which may coexist with many faults, but
not with treachery.

  CHAPTER IX

 A SHOT FROM BALD KNOB

A bunch of young steers which had strayed from their range were to be
driven to the Dillon ranch, and the boss of the rodeo appointed France
and Fraser to the task.

"Yo'll have company home, honey," he told his daughter, "and yo'll be
able to give the boys a hand if they need it. These hill cattle are
still some wild, though we've been working them a week. Yo're a heap
better cowboy than some that works more steady at the business."

Briscoe nodded. "You bet! I ain't forgot that day Arlie rode Big
Timber with me two years ago. She wasn't sixteen then, but she herded
them hill steers like they belonged to a milk bunch."

He spoke his compliment patly enough, but somehow the girl had an
impression that he was thinking of something else. She was right, for
as he helped gather the drive his mind was busy with a problem.
Presently he dismounted to tighten a cinch, and made a signal to a
young fellow known as Slim Leroy. The latter was a new and tender
recruit to Jed's band of miscreants. He drew up beside his leader and
examined one of the fore hoofs of his pony.

"Slim, I'm going to have Dillon send you for the mail to-day. When he
tells you, that's the first you know about it. Understand? You'll have
to take the hill cut to Jack Rabbit Run on your way in. At the cabin
back of the aspens, inquire for a man that calls himself Johnson. If
he's there, give him this message: 'This afternoon from Bald Knob.'
Remember! Just those words, and nothing more. If he isn't there,
forget the message. You'll know the man you want because he is shy his
trigger finger and has a ragged scar across his right cheek. Make no
mistake about this, Slim."

"Sure I won't."

Briscoe, having finished cinching, swung to his saddle and rode up to
say good-by to Arlie.

"Hope you'll have no trouble with this bunch. If you push right along
you'd ought to get home by night," he told her.

Arlie agreed carelessly. "I don't expect any trouble with them.
So-long, Jed."

It would not have been her choice to ride home with the lieutenant of
rangers, but since her father had made the appointment publicly she
did not care to make objection. Yet she took care to let Fraser see
that he was in her black books. The men rode toward the rear of the
herd, one on each side, and Arlie fell in beside her old playmate,
Dick. She laughed and talked with him about a hundred things in which
Steve could have had no part, even if he had been close enough to
catch more than one word out of twenty. Not once did she even look his
way. Quite plainly she had taken pains to forget his existence.

"It was Briscoe's turn the other day," mused the Texan. "It's mine
now. I wonder when it will be Dick's to get put out in the cold!"

Nevertheless, though he tried to act the philosopher, it cut him that
the high-spirited girl had condemned him. He felt himself in a false
position from which he could not easily extricate himself. The worst
of it was that if it came to a showdown he could not expect the simple
truth to exonerate him.

From where they rode there drifted to him occasionally the sound of
the gay voices of the young people. It struck him for the first time
that he was getting old. Arlie could not be over eighteen, and Dick
perhaps twenty-one. Maybe young people like that thought a fellow of
twenty-seven a Methusaleh.

After a time the thirsty cattle smelt water and hit a bee line so
steadily for it that they needed no watching. Every minute or two one
of the leaders stretched out its neck and let out a bellow without
slackening its pace.

Steve lazed on his pony, shifting his position to ease his cramped
limbs after the manner of the range rider. In spite of himself, his
eyes would drift toward the jaunty little figure on the pinto. The
masculine in him approved mightily her lissom grace and the proud lilt
of her dark head, with its sun-kissed face set in profile to him. He
thought her serviceable costume very becoming, from the pinched felt
hat pinned to the dark mass of hair, and the red silk kerchief knotted
loosely round the pretty throat, to the leggings beneath the corduroy
skirt and the flannel waist with sleeves rolled up in summer-girl
fashion to leave the tanned arms bare to the dimpled elbows.

The trail, winding through a narrow defile, brought them side by side
again.

"Ever notice what a persistent color buckskin is, Steve?" inquired
France, by way of bringing him into the conversation. "It's strong in
every one of these cattle, though the old man has been trying to get
rid of it for ten years."

"You mustn't talk to me, Dick," responded his friend gravely. "Little
Willie told a lie, and he's being stood in a corner."

Arlie flushed angrily, opened her mouth to speak, and, changing her
mind, looked at him witheringly. He didn't wither, however. Instead,
he smiled broadly, got out his mouth organ, and cheerfully entertained
them with his favorite, "I Met My Love In the Alamo."

The hot blood under dusky skin held its own in her cheeks. She was
furious with him, and dared not trust herself to speak. As soon as
they had passed through the defile she spurred forward, as if to turn
the leaders. France turned to his friend and laughed ruefully.

"She's full of pepper, Steve."

The ranger nodded. "She's all right, Dick. If you want to know, she's
got a right to make a doormat of me. I lied to her. I was up against
it, and I kinder had to. You ride along and join her. If you want to
get right solid, tell her how many kinds of a skunk I am. Worst of it
is, I ain't any too sure I'm not."

"I'm sure for you then, Steve," the lad called back, as he loped
forward after the girl.

He was so sure, that he began to praise his friend to Arlie, to tell
her of what a competent cowman he was, how none of them could make a
cut or rope a wild steer like him. She presently wanted to know
whether Dick could not find something more interesting to talk about.

He could not help smiling at her downright manner. "You've surely got
it in for him, Arlie. I thought you liked him."

She pulled up her horse, and looked at him. "What made you think that?
Did he tell you so?"

Dick fairly shouted. "You do rub it in, girl, when you've got a down
on a fellow. No, he didn't tell me. You did."

"Me?" she protested indignantly. "I never did."

"Oh, you didn't say so, but I don't need a church to fall on me before
I can take a hint. You acted as though you liked him that day you and
him came riding into camp."

"I didn't do any such thing, Dick France. I don't like him at all,"
very decidedly.

"All the boys do-- all but Jed. I don't reckon he does."

"Do I have to like him because the boys do?" she demanded.

"O' course not." Dick stopped, trying to puzzle it out. "He says you
ain't to blame, that he lied to you. That seems right strange, too. It
ain't like Steve to lie."

"How do you know so much about him? You haven't known him a week."

"That's what Jed says. I say it ain't a question of time. Some men
I've knew ten years I ain't half so sure of. He's a man from the
ground up. Any one could tell that, before they had seen him five
minutes "

Secretly, the girl was greatly pleased. She so wanted to believe that
Dick was right. It was what she herself had thought.

"I wish you'd seen him the day he pulled Siegfried out of Lost Creek.
Tell you, I thought they were both goners," Dick continued.

"I expect it was most ankle-deep," she scoffed. "Hello, we're past
Bald Knob!"

"They both came mighty nigh handing in their checks."

"I didn't know that, though I knew, of course, he was fearless," Arlie
said.

"What's that?" Dick drew in his horse sharply, and looked back.

The sound of a rifle shot echoed from hillside to hillside. Like a
streak of light, the girl's pinto flashed past him. He heard her give
a sobbing cry of anguish. Then he saw that Steve was slipping very
slowly from his saddle.

A second shot rang out. The light was beginning to fail, but he made
out a man's figure crouched among the small pines on the shoulder of
Bald Knob. Dick jerked out his revolver as he rode back, and fired
twice. He was quite out of pistol range, but he wanted the man in
ambush to see that help was at hand. He saw Arlie fling herself from
her pony in time to support the Texan just as he sank to the ground.

"She'll take care of Steve. It's me for that murderer," the young man
thought.

Acting upon that impulse, he slid from his horse and slipped into the
sagebrush of the hillside. By good fortune he was wearing a gray shirt
of a shade which melted into that of the underbrush. Night falls
swiftly in the mountains, and already dusk was softly spreading itself
over the hills.

Dick went up a draw, where young pines huddled together in the trough;
and from the upper end of this he emerged upon a steep ridge, eyes and
ears alert for the least sign of human presence. A third shot had rung
out while he was in the dense mass of foliage of the evergreens, but
now silence lay heavy all about him. The gathering darkness blurred
detail, so that any one of a dozen bowlders might be a shield for a
crouching man.

Once, nerves at a wire edge from the strain on him, he thought he saw
a moving figure. Throwing up his gun, he fired quickly. But he must
have been mistaken, for, shortly afterward, he heard some one crashing
through dead brush at a distance.

"He's on the run, whoever he is. Guess I'll get back to Steve,"
decided France wisely.

He found his friend stretched on the ground, with his head in Arlie's
lap.

"Is it very bad?" he asked the girl.

"I don't know. There's no light. Whatever shall we do?" she moaned.

"I'm a right smart of a nuisance, ain't I?" drawled the wounded man
unexpectedly.

She leaned forward quickly. "Where are you hit?"

"In the shoulder, ma'am."

"Can you ride, Steve? Do you reckon you could make out the five
miles?" Dick asked.

Arlie answered for him. She had felt the inert weight of his heavy
body and knew that he was beyond helping himself. "No. Is there no
house near? There's Alec Howard's cabin."

"He's at the round-up, but I guess we had better take Steve there-- if
we could make out to get him that far."

The girl took command quietly. "Unsaddle Teddy."

She had unloosened his shirt and was tying her silk kerchief over the
wound, from which blood was coming in little jets.

"We can't carry him," she decided. "It's too far. We'll have to lift
him to the back of the horse, and let him lie there. Steady, Dick.
That's right. You must hold him on, while I lead the horse."

Heavy as he was, they somehow hoisted him, and started. He had fainted
again, and hung limply, with his face buried in the mane of the pony.
It seemed an age before the cabin loomed, shadow-like, out of the
darkness. They found the door unlocked, as usual, and carried him in
to the bed.

"Give me your knife, Dick," Arlie ordered quietly. "And I want water.
If that's a towel over there, bring it."

"Just a moment. I'll strike a light, and we'll see where we're at."

"No. We'll have to work in the dark. A light might bring them down on
us." She had been cutting the band of the shirt, and now ripped it so
as to expose the wounded shoulder.

Dick took a bucket to the creek, and presently returned with it. In
his right hand he carried his revolver. When he reached the cabin he
gave an audible sigh of relief and quickly locked the door.

"Of course you'll have to go for help, Dick. Bring old Doc Lee."

"Why, Arlie, I can't leave you here alone. What are you talking
about?"

"You'll have to. It's the only thing to do. You'll have to give me
your revolver. And, oh, Dick, don't lose a moment on the way."

He was plainly troubled. "I just can't leave you here alone, girl.
What would your father say if anything happened? I don't reckon
anything will, but we can't tell. No, I'll stay here, too. Steve must
take his chance."

"You'll not stay." She flamed round upon him, with the fierce passion
of a tigress fighting for her young. "You'll go this minute-- this
very minute!"

"But don't you see I oughtn't to leave you? Anybody would tell you
that," he pleaded.

"And you call yourself his friend," she cried, in a low, bitter voice.

"I call myself yours, too," he made answer doggedly.

"Then go. Go this instant. You'll go, anyway; but if you're my friend,
you'll go gladly, and bring help to save us both."

"I wisht I knew what to do," he groaned.

Her palms fastened on his shoulders. She was a creature transformed.
Such bravery, such feminine ferocity, such a burning passion of the
spirit, was altogether outside of his experience of her or any other
woman. He could no more resist her than he could fly to the top of
Bald Knob.

"I'll go, Arlie."

"And bring help soon. Get Doc Lee here soon as you can. Leave word for
armed men to follow. Don't wait for them."

"No."

"Take his Teddy horse. It can cover ground faster than yours,"

"Yes."

With plain misgivings, he left her, and presently she heard the sound
of his galloping horse. It seemed to her for a moment as if she must
call him back, but she strangled the cry in her throat. She locked the
door and bolted it, then turned back to the bed, upon which the
wounded man was beginning to moan in his delirium.

  CHAPTER X

 DOC LEE

Arlie knew nothing of wounds or their treatment. All she could do was
to wash the shoulder in cold water and bind it with strips torn from
her white underskirt. When his face and hands grew hot with the fever,
she bathed them with a wet towel. How badly he was hurt-- whether he
might not even die before Dick's return-- she had no way of telling.
His inconsequent babble at first frightened her, for she had never
before seen a person in delirium, nor heard of the insistence with
which one harps upon some fantasy seized upon by a diseased mind.

"She thinks you're a skunk, Steve. So you are. She's dead right-- dead
right-- dead right. You lied to her, you coyote! Stand up in the
corner, you liar, while she whangs at you with a six-gun! You're a
skunk-- dead right."

So he would run on in a variation of monotony, the strong, supple,
masterful man as helpless as a child, all the splendid virility
stricken from him by the pressure of an enemy's finger. The eyes that
she had known so full of expression, now like half-scabbarded steel,
and now again bubbling from the inner mirth of him, were glazed and
unmeaning. The girl had felt in him a capacity for silent
self-containment; and here he was, picking at the coverlet with
restless fingers, prattling foolishly, like an infant.

She was a child of impulse, sensitive and plastic. Because she had
been hard on him before he was struck down, her spirit ran open-armed
to make amends. What manner of man he was she did not know. But what
availed that to keep her, a creature of fire and dew, from the clutch
of emotions strange and poignant? He had called himself a liar and a
coyote, yet she knew it was not true, or at worst, true in some
qualified sense. He might be hard, reckless, even wicked in some ways.
But, vaguely, she felt that if he were a sinner he sinned with
self-respect. He was in no moral collapse, at least. It was impossible
to fit him to her conception of a spy. No, no! Anything but that!

So she sat there, her fingers laced about her knee, as she leaned
forward to wait upon the needs she could imagine for him, the dumb
tragedy of despair in her childish face.

The situation was one that made for terror. To be alone with a wounded
man, his hurt undressed, to hear his delirium and not to know whether
he might not die any minute-- this would have been enough to cause
apprehension. Add to it the darkness, her deep interest in him, the
struggle of her soul, and the dread of unseen murder stalking in the
silent night.

Though her thought was of him, it was not wholly upon him. She sat
where she could watch the window, Dick's revolver in another chair
beside her. It was a still, starry night, and faintly she could see
the hazy purple, mountain line. Somewhere beneath those uncaring stars
was the man who had done this awful thing. Was he far, or was he near?
Would he come to make sure he had not failed? Her fearful heart told
her that he would come.

She must have fought her fears nearly an hour before she heard the
faintest of sounds outside. Her hand leaped to the revolver. She sat
motionless, listening, with nerves taut. It came again presently, a
deadened footfall, close to the door. Then, after an eternity, the
latch clicked softly. Some one, with infinite care, was trying to
discover whether the door was locked.

His next move she anticipated. Her eyes fastened on the window, while
she waited breathlessly. Her heart was stammering furiously. Moments
passed, in which she had to set her teeth to keep from screaming
aloud. The revolver was shaking so that she had to steady the barrel
with her left hand. A shadow crossed one pane, the shadow of a head in
profile, and pushed itself forward till shoulders, arm, and poised
revolver covered the lower sash. Very, very slowly the head itself
crept into sight.

Arlie fired and screamed simultaneously. The thud of a fall, the
scuffle of a man gathering himself to his feet again, the rush of
retreating steps, all merged themselves in one single impression of
fierce, exultant triumph.

Her only regret was that she had not killed him. She was not even sure
that she had hit him, for her bullet had gone through the glass within
an inch of the inner woodwork. Nevertheless, she knew that he had had
a shock that would carry him far. Unless he had accomplices with him--
and of that there had been no evidence at the time of the attack from
Bald Knob-- he would not venture another attempt. Of one thing she was
sure. The face that had looked in at the window was one she had never
seen before, In this, too, she found relief-- for she knew now that
the face she had expected to see follow the shadow over the pane had
been that of Jed Briscoe; and Jed had too much of the courage of
Lucifer incarnate in him to give up because an unexpected revolver had
been fired in his face.

Time crept slowly, but it could hardly have been a quarter of an hour
later that she heard the galloping of horses.

"It is Dick!" she cried joyfully, and, running to the door, she
unbolted and unlocked it just as France dragged Teddy to a halt and
flung himself to the ground.

The young man gave a shout of gladness at sight of her.

"Is it all right, Arlie?"

"Yes. That is-- I don't know. He is delirious. A man came to the
window, and I shot at him. Oh, Dick, I'm so glad you're back."

In her great joy, she put her arms round his neck and kissed him. Old
Doctor Lee, dismounting more leisurely, drawled his protest.

"Look-a-here, Arlie. I'm the doctor. Where do I come in?"

"I'll kiss you, too, when you tell me he'll get well." The
half-hysterical laugh died out of her voice, and she caught him
fiercely by the arm. "Doc, doc, don't let him die," she begged.

He had known her all her life, had been by the bedside when she came
into the world, and he put his arm round her shoulders and gave her a
little hug as they passed into the room.

"We'll do our level best, little girl."

She lit a lamp, and drew the window curtain, so that none could see
from the outside. While the old doctor arranged his instruments and
bandages on chairs, she waited on him. He noticed how white she was,
for he said, not unkindly:

"I don't want two patients right now, Arlie. If you're going to keel
over in a faint right in the middle of it, I'll have Dick help."

"No, no, I won't, doc. Truly, I won't," she promised.

"All right, little girl. We'll see how game you are. Dick, hold the
light. Hold it right there. See?"

The Texan had ceased talking, and was silent, except for a low moan,
repeated at regular intervals. The doctor showed Arlie how to
administer the anaesthetic after he had washed the wound. While he was
searching for the bullet with his probe she flinched as if he had
touched a bare nerve, but she stuck to her work regardless of her
feelings, until the lead was found and extracted and the wound
dressed.

Afterward, Dick found her seated on a rock outside crying
hysterically. He did not attempt to cope with the situation, but
returned to the house and told Lee.

"Best thing for her. Her nerves are overwrought and unstrung. She'll
be all right, once she has her cry out. I'll drift around, and jolly
her along."

The doctor presently came up and took a seat beside her.

"Wha-- what do you think, doctor?" she sobbed.

"Well, I think it's tarnation hot operating with a big kerosene lamp
six inches from your haid," he said, as he mopped his forehead.

"I mean-- will he-- get well?"

Lee snorted. "Well, I'd be ashamed of him if he didn't. If he lets a
nice, clean, flesh wound put him out of business he don't deserve to
live. Don't worry any about him, young lady. Say, I wish I had zwei
beer right now, Arlie."

"You mean it? You're not just saying it to please me?"

"Of course, I mean it," he protested indignantly. "I wish I had
three."

"I mean, are you sure he'll get well?" she explained, a faint smile
touching her wan face.

"Yes, I mean that, too, but right now I mean the beer most. Now,
honest, haven't I earned a beer?"

"You've earned a hundred thousand, doc. You're the kindest and dearest
man that ever lived," she cried.

"Ain't that rather a large order, my dear?" he protested mildly. "I
couldn't really use a hundred thousand. And I'd hate to be better than
Job and Moses and Pharaoh and them Bible characters. Wouldn't I have
to give up chewing? Somehow, a halo don't seem to fit my haid. It's
most too bald to carry one graceful.... You may do that again if you
want to." This last, apropos of the promised reward which had just
been paid in full.

Arlie found she could manage a little laugh by this time.

"Well, if you ain't going to, we might as well go in and have a look
at that false-alarm patient of ours," he continued. "We'll have to sit
up all night with him. I was sixty-three yesterday. I'm going to quit
this doctor game. I'm too old to go racing round the country nights
just because you young folks enjoy shooting each other up. Yes, ma'am,
I'm going to quit. I serve notice right here. What's the use of having
a good ranch and some cattle if you can't enjoy them?"

As the doctor had been serving notice of his intention to quit
doctoring for over ten years, Arlie did not take him too seriously.
She knew him for what he was-- a whimsical old fellow, who would drop
in the saddle before he would let a patient suffer; one of the old
school, who loved his work but liked to grumble over it.

"Maybe you'll be able to take a rest soon. You know that young doctor
from Denver, who was talking about settling here----"

This, as she knew, was a sore point with him. "So you're tired of me,
are you? Want a new-fangled appendix cutter from Denver, do you? Time
to shove old Doc Lee aside, eh?"

"I didn't say that, doc," she repented.

"Huh! You meant it. Wonder how many times he'd get up at midnight and
plow through three-foot snow for six miles to see the most ungrateful,
squalling little brat----"

"Was it me, doc?" she ungrammatically demanded.

"It was you, Miss Impudence."

They had reached the door, but she held him there a moment, while she
laughed delightedly and hugged him. "I knew it was me. As if we'd let
our old doc go, or have anything to do with a young ignoramus from
Denver! Didn't you know I was joking? Of course you did."

He still pretended severity. "Oh, I know you. When it comes to
wheedling an old fool, you've got the rest of the girls in this valley
beat to a fare-you-well."

"Is that why you always loved me?" she asked, with a sparkle of
mischief in her eye.

"I didn't love you. I never did. The idea!" he snorted. "I don't know
what you young giddy pates are coming to. Huh! Love you!"

"I'll forgive you, even if you did," she told him sweetly.

"That's it! That's it!" he barked. "You forgive all the young idiots
when they do. And they all do-- every last one of them. But I'm too
old for you, young lady. Sixty-three yesterday. Huh!"

"I like you better than the younger ones."

"Want us all, do you? Young and old alike. Well, count me out."

He broke away, and went into the house. But there was an unconquerably
youthful smile dancing in his eyes. This young lady and he had made
love to each other in some such fashion ever since she had been a year
old. He was a mellow and confirmed old bachelor, but he proposed to
continue their innocent coquetry until he was laid away, no matter
which of the young bucks of the valley had the good fortune to win her
for a wife.

  CHAPTER XI

 THE FAT IN THE FIRE

For two days Fraser remained in the cabin of the stockman Howard,
France making it his business to see that the place was never left
unguarded for a moment. At the end of that time the fever had greatly
abated, and he was doing so well that Doctor Lee decided it would be
better to move him to the Dillon ranch for the convenience of all
parties.

This was done, and the patient continued steadily to improve. His
vigorous constitution, helped by the healthy, clean, outdoor life he
had led, stood him in good stead. Day by day he renewed the blood he
had lost. Soon he was eating prodigious dinners, and between meals was
drinking milk with an egg beaten in it.

On a sunny forenoon, when he lay in the big window of the living room,
reading a magazine, Arlie entered, a newspaper in her hand. Her eyes
were strangely bright, even for her, and she had a manner of repressed
excitement, Her face was almost colorless.

"Here's some more in the Avalanche about our adventure near Gimlet
Butte," she told him, waving the paper.

"Nothing like keeping in the public eye," said Steve, grinning. "I
don't reckon our little picnic at Bald Knob is likely to get in the
Avalanche, though. It probably hasn't any correspondent at Lost
Valley. Anyhow, I'm hoping not."

"Mr. Fraser, there is something in this paper I want you to explain.
But tell me first when it was you shot this man Faulkner. I mean at
just what time in the fight."

"Why, I reckon it must have been just before I ducked."

"That's funny, too." She fixed her direct, fearless gaze on him. "The
evidence at the coroner's jury shows that it was in the early part of
the fight he was shot, before father and I left you."

"No, that couldn't have been, Miss Arlie, because----"

"Because----" she prompted, smiling at him in a peculiar manner.

He flushed, and could only say that the newspapers were always getting
things wrong.

"But this is the evidence at the coroner's inquest," she said, falling
grave again on the instant. "I understand one thing now, very clearly,
and that is that Faulkner was killed early in the fight, and the other
man was wounded in the ankle near the finish."

He shook his head obstinately. "No, I reckon not."

"Yet it is true. What's more, you knew it all the time."

"You ce'tainly jump to conclusions, Miss Arlie."

"And you let them arrest you, without telling them the truth! And they
came near lynching you! And there's a warrant out now for your arrest
for the murder of Faulkner, while all the time I killed him, and you
knew it!"

He gathered together his lame defense. "You run ahaid too fast for me,
ma'am. Supposing he was hit while we were all there together, how was
I to know who did it?"

"You knew it couldn't have been you, for he wasn't struck with a
revolver. It couldn't have been dad, since he had his shotgun loaded
with buckshot."

"What difference did it make?" he wanted to know impatiently. "Say I'd
have explained till kingdom come that I borrowed the rifle from a
friend five minutes after Faulkner was hit-- would anybody have
believed me? Would it have made a bit of difference?"

Her shining eyes were more eloquent than a thousand tongues. "I don't
say it would, but there was always the chance. You didn't take it. You
would have let them hang you, without speaking the word that brought
me into it. Why?"

"I'm awful obstinate when I get my back up," he smiled.

"That wasn't it. You did it to save a girl you had never seen but
once. I want to know why."

"All right. Have it your own way. But don't ask me to explain the
whyfors. I'm no Harvard professor."

"I know," she said softly. She was not looking at him, but out of the
window, and there were tears in her voice.

"Sho! Don't make too much of it. We'll let it go that I ain't all
coyote, after all. But that don't entitle me to any reward of merit.
Now, don't you cry, Miss Arlie. Don't you."

She choked back the tears, and spoke in deep self-scorn. "No! You
don't deserve anything except what you've been getting from me--
suspicion and distrust and hard words! You haven't done anything worth
speaking of-- just broke into a quarrel that wasn't yours, at the risk
of your life; then took it on your shoulders to let us escape; and,
afterward, when you were captured, refused to drag me in, because I
happen to be a girl! But it's not worth mentioning that you did all
this for strangers, and that later you did not tell even me, because
you knew it would trouble me that I had killed him, though in
self-defense. And to think that all the time I've been full of hateful
suspicions about you! Oh, you don't know how I despise myself!"

She let her head fall upon her arm on the table, and sobbed.

Fraser, greatly disturbed, patted gently the heavy coil of blue-black
hair.

"Now, don't you, Arlie; don't you. I ain't worth it. Honest, I ain't.
I did what it was up to me to do. Not a thing more. Dick would have
done it. Any of the boys would. Now, let's look at what you've done
for me."

From under the arm a muffled voice insisted she had done nothing but
suspect him.

"Hold on, girl. Play fair. First off you ride sixty miles to help me
when I'm hunted right hard. You bring me to your home in this valley
where strangers ain't over and above welcome just now. You learn I'm
an officer and still you look out for me and fight for me, till you
make friends for me. It's through you I get started right with the
boys. On your say-so they give me the glad hand. You learn I've lied
to you, and two or three hours later you save my life. You sit there
steady, with my haid in your lap, while some one is plugging away at
us. You get me to a house, take care of my wounds, and hold the fort
alone in the night till help comes. Not only that, but you drive my
enemy away. Later, you bring me home, and nurse me like I was a
long-lost brother. What I did for you ain't in the same class with
what you've done for me."

"But I was suspicious of you all the time."

"So you had a right to be. That ain't the point, which is that a girl
did all that for a man she thought might be an enemy and a low-down
spy. Men are expected to take chances like I did, but girls ain't. You
took 'em. If I lived a thousand years, I couldn't tell you all the
thanks I feel."

"Ah! It makes it worse that you're that kind of a man. But I'm going
to show you whether I trust you." Her eyes were filled with the glad
light of her resolve. She spoke with a sort of proud humility. "Do you
know, there was a time when I thought you might have-- I didn't really
believe it, but I thought it just possible-- that you might have come
here to get evidence against the Squaw Creek raiders? You'll despise
me, but it's the truth."

His face lost color. "And now?" he asked quietly.

"Now? I would as soon suspect my father-- or myself! I'll show you
what I think. The men in it were Jed Briscoe and Yorky and Dick France
"Stop," he cried hoarsely.

"Is it your wound?" she said quickly.

"No. That's all right. But you musn't tell----"

"I'm telling, to show whether I trust you. Jed and Yorky and Dick and
Slim----"

She stopped to listen. Her father's voice was calling her. She rose
from her seat.

"Wait a moment. There's something I've got to tell you," the Texan
groaned.

"I'll be back in a moment. Dad wants to see me about some letters."

And with that she was gone. Whatever the business was, it detained her
longer than she expected. The minutes slipped away, and still she did
not return. A step sounded in the hall, a door opened, and Jed Briscoe
stood before him.

"You're here, are you?" he said.

The Texan measured looks with him. "Yes, I'm here."

"Grand-standing still, I reckon."

"If you could only learn to mind your own affairs," the Texan
suggested evenly.

"You'll wish I could before I'm through with you."

"Am I to thank you for that little courtesy from Bald Knob the other
evening?"

"Not directly. At three hundred yards, I could have shot a heap
straighter than that. The fool must have been drunk."

"You'll have to excuse him. It was beginning to get dark. His
intentions were good."

There was a quick light step behind him, and Arlie came into the room.
She glanced quickly from one to the other, and there was apprehension
in her look.

"I've come to see Lieutenant Fraser on business," Briscoe explained,
with an air patently triumphant.

Arlie made no offer to leave the room. "He's hardly up to business
yet, is he?" she asked, as carelessly as she could.

"Then we'll give it another name. I'm making a neighborly call to ask
how he is, and to return some things he lost."

Jed's hand went into his pocket and drew forth leisurely a photograph.
This he handed to Arlie right side up, smiling the while, with a kind
of masked deviltry.

"Found it in Alec Howard's cabin. Seems your coat was hanging over the
back of a chair, lieutenant, and this and a paper fell out. One of the
boys must have kicked it to one side, and it was overlooked. Later, I
ran across it. So I'm bringing it back to you."

In spite of herself Arlie's eyes fell to the photograph. It was a
snapshot of the ranger and a very attractive young woman. They were
smiling into each other's eyes with a manner of perfect and friendly
understanding. To see it gave Arlie a pang. Flushing at her mistake,
she turned the card over and handed it to the owner.

"Sorry. I looked without thinking," she said in a low voice.

Fraser nodded his acceptance of her apology, but his words and his
eyes were for his enemy. "You mentioned something else you had found,
seems to me."

Behind drooping eyelids Jed was malevolently feline. "Seems to me I
did."

From his pocket came slowly a folded paper. He opened and looked it
over at leisure before his mocking eyes lifted again to the wounded
man. "This belongs to you, too, but I know you'll excuse me if I keep
it to show to the boys before returning it."

"So you've read it," Arlie broke in scornfully.

He grinned at her, and nodded. "Yes, I've read it, my dear. I had to
read it, to find out whose it was. Taken by and large, it's a right
interesting document, too."

He smiled at the ranger maliciously, yet with a certain catlike
pleasure in tormenting his victim. Arlie began to feel a tightening of
her throat, a sinking of the heart. But Fraser looked at the man with
a quiet, scornful steadfastness. He knew what was coming, and had
decided upon his course.

"Seems to be a kind of map, lieutenant. Here's Gimlet Butte and the
Half Way House and Sweetwater Dam and the blasted pine. Looks like it
might be a map from the Butte to this part of the country. Eh, Mr.
Fraser from Texas?"

"And if it is?"

"Then I should have to ask you how you come by it, seeing as the map
is drawn on Sheriff Brandt's official stationery," Jed rasped swiftly.

"I got it from Sheriff Brandt, Mr. Briscoe, since you want to know.
You're not entitled to the information, but I'll make you a gift of
it. He gave it to me to guide me here."

Even Briscoe was taken aback. He had expected evasion, denial,
anything but a bold acceptance of his challenge. His foe watched the
wariness settle upon him by the narrowing of his eyes.

"So the sheriff knew you were coming?"

"Yes."

"I thought you broke jail. That was the story I had dished up to me."

"I did, with the help of the sheriff."

"Oh, with the help of the sheriff? Come to think of it, that sounds
right funny-- a sheriff helping his prisoner to escape."

"Yet it is true, as it happens."

"I don't doubt it, lieutenant. Fact is, I had some such notion all the
time. Now, I wonder why-for he took so friendly an interest in you."

"I had a letter of introduction to him from a friend in Texas. When he
knew who I was, he decided he couldn't afford to have me lynched
without trying to save me."

"I see. And the map?"

"This was the only part of the country in which I would be safe from
capture. He knew I had a claim on some of the Cedar Mountain people,
because it was to help them I had got into trouble."

"Yes, I can see that." Arlie nodded quickly. "Of course, that is just
what the sheriff would think."

"Folks can always see what they want to, Arlie," Jed commented. "Now,
I can't see all that, by a lot."

"It isn't necessary you should, Mr. Briscoe," Fraser retorted.

"Or else I see a good deal more, lieutenant," Jed returned, with his
smooth smile. "Mebbe the sheriff helped you on your way because you're
such a good detective. He's got ambitions, Brandt has. So has
Hilliard, the prosecuting attorney. Happen to see him, by the way?"

"Yes."

Jed nodded. "I figured you had. Yes, it would be Hilliard worked the
scheme out, I expect."

"You're a good deal of a detective yourself, Mr. Briscoe," the Texan
laughed hardily. "Perhaps I could get you a job in the rangers."

"There may be a vacancy there soon," Jed agreed.

"What's the use of talking that way, Jed? Are you threatening Mr.
Fraser? If anything happens to him, I'll remember this," Arlie told
him.

"Have I mentioned any threats, Arlie? It is well known that Lieutenant
Fraser has enemies here. It don't take a prophet to tell that, after
what happened the other night."

"Any more than it takes a prophet to tell that you are one of them."

"I play my own hand. I don't lie down before him, or any other man.
He'd better not get in my way, unless he's sure he's a better man than
I am."

"But he isn't in your way," Arlie insisted. "He has told a plain
story. I believe every word of it."

"I notice he didn't tell any of his plain story until we proved it on
him. He comes through with his story after he's caught with the goods.
Don't you know that every criminal that is caught has a smooth
explanation?"

"I haven't any doubt Mr. Briscoe will have one when his turn comes,"
the ranger remarked.

Jed wheeled on him. His eyes glittered menace. "You've said one word
too much. I'll give you forty-eight hours to get out of this valley."

"How dare you, Jed-- and in my house!" Arlie cried. "I won't have it.
I won't have blood shed between you."

"It's up to him," answered the cattleman, his jaw set like a vise.
"Persuade him to git out, and there'll be no blood shed."

"You have no right to ask it of him. You ought not----" She stopped,
aware of the futility of urging a moral consideration upon the man,
and fell back upon the practical. "He couldn't travel that soon, even
if he wanted to. He's not strong enough. You know that."

"All right. We'll call it a week. If he's still here a week from
to-day, there will be trouble."

With that, he turned on his heel and left the room. They heard his
spurs trailing across the porch and jingling down the steps, after
which they caught a momentary vision of him, dark and sinister, as his
horse flashed past the window.

The ranger smiled, but rather seriously. "The fat's in the fire now,
sure enough, ma'am."

She turned anxiously upon him. "Why did you tell him all that? Why did
you let him go away, believing you were here as a spy to trap him and
his friends?"

"I let him have the truth. Anyhow, I couldn't have made good with a
denial. He had the evidence. I can't keep him from believing what he
wants to."

"He'll tell all his friends. He'll exaggerate the facts and stir up
sentiment against you. He'll say you came here as a detective, to get
evidence against the Squaw Creek raiders." "Then he'll tell the
truth!"

She took it in slowly, with a gathering horror. "The truth!" she
repeated, almost under her breath. "You don't mean---- You can't
mean---- Are you here as a spy upon my friends?"

"I didn't know they were your friends when I took the job. If you'll
listen, I'll explain."

Words burst from her in gathering bitterness.

"What is there to explain, sir? The facts cry to heaven. I brought you
into this valley, gave you the freedom of our home against my father's
first instinct. I introduced you to my friends, and no doubt they told
you much you wanted to know. They are simple, honest folks, who don't
know a spy when they see one. And I-- fool that I am-- I vouched for
you. More, I stood between you and the fate you deserved. And, lastly,
in my blind conceit, I have told you the names of the men in the Squaw
Creek trouble. If I had only known-- and I had all the evidence, but I
was so blind I would not see you were a snake in the grass."

He put out a hand to stop her, and she drew back as if his touch were
pollution. From the other side of the room, she looked across at him
in bitter scorn.

"I shall make arrangements to have you taken out of the valley at
once, sir."

"You needn't take the trouble, Miss Arlie. I'm not going out of the
valley. If you'll have me taken to Alec Howard's shack, which is where
you brought me from, I'll be under obligations to you."

"Whatever you are, I'm not going to have your blood on my hands.
You've got to leave the valley."

"I have to thank you for all your kindness to me. If you'd extend it a
trifle further and listen to what I've got to say, I'd be grateful."

"I don't care to hear your excuses. Go quickly, sir, before you meet
the end you deserve, and give up the poor men I have betrayed to you."
She spoke in a choked voice, as if she could scarce breathe.

"If you'd only listen before you----"

"I've listened to you too long. I was so sure I knew more than my
father, than my friends. I'll listen no more."

The Texan gave it up. "All right, ma'am. Just as you say. If you'll
order some kind of a rig for me, I'll not trouble you longer. I'm
sorry that it's got to be this way. Maybe some time you'll see it
different."

"Never," she flashed passionately, and fled from the room.

He did not see her again before he left. Bobbie came to get him in a
light road trap they had. The boy looked at him askance, as if he knew
something was wrong. Presently they turned a corner and left the ranch
shut from sight in a fold of the hills.

At the first division of the road Fraser came to a difference of
opinion with Bobbie.

"Arlie said you was going to leave the valley. She told me I was to
take you to Speed's place."

"She misunderstood. I am going to Alec Howard's."

"But that ain't what she told me."

Steve took the reins from him, and turned into the trail that led to
Howard's place. "You can explain to her, Bobbie, that you couldn't
make me see it that way."

An hour later, he descended upon Howard-- a big, rawboned ranchman,
who had succumbed quickly to a deep friendship for this "Admirable
Crichton" of the plains.

"Hello, Steve! Glad to death to see you. Hope you've come to stay, you
old pie eater," he cried joyously, at sight of the Texan.

Fraser got down. "Wait here a moment, Bobbie. I want to have a talk
with Alec. I may go on with you."

They went into the cabin, and Fraser sat down. He was still far from
strong.

"What's up, Steve?" the rancher asked.

"You asked me to stay, Alec. Before I say whether I will or not, I've
got a story to tell you. After I've told it, you can ask me again if
you want me to stop with you. If you don't ask me, I'll ride off with
the boy."

"All right. Fire ahead, old hoss. I'll ask you fast enough."

The Texan told his story from the beginning. Only one thing he
omitted-- that Arlie had told him the name of the Squaw Creek raiders.

"There are the facts, Alec. You've got them from beginning to end.
It's up to you. Do you want me here?"

"Before I answer that, I'll have to put a question myse'f, Steve. Why
do you want to stay? Why not leave the valley while you're still able
to?"

"Because Jed Briscoe put it up to me that I'd got to leave within a
week. I'll go when I'm good and ready."

Alec nodded his appreciation of the point. "Sure. You don't want to
sneak out, with yore tail betwixt yore laigs. That brings up another
question, Steve. What about the Squaw Creek sheep raiders? Just for
argument, we'll put it that some of them are my friends. You
understand-- just for argument. Are you still aiming to run them
down?"

Fraser met his frank question frankly. "No, Alec, I've had to give up
that notion long since-- soon as I began to guess they were friends of
Miss Arlie. I'm going back to tell Hilliard so. But I ain't going to
be run out by Briscoe."

"Good enough. Put her there, son. This shack's yore home till hell
freezes over, Steve."

"You haven't any doubts about me, Alec. If you have, better say so
now."

"Doubts? I reckon not. Don't I know a man when I see one? I'm plumb
surprised at Arlie." He strode to the door, and called to Bobbie:
"Roll along home, son. Yore passenger is going to stay a spell with
me."

"Of course, I understand what this means, Alec. Jed and his crowd
aren't going to be any too well pleased when they learn you have taken
me in. They may make you trouble," the ranger said.

The big cow man laughed. "Oh, cut it out, Steve. Jed don't have to O.
K. my guest list. Not on yore life. I'm about ready for a ruction with
that young man, anyway. He's too blamed bossy. I ain't wearing his
brand. Fact is, I been having notions this valley has been suffering
from too much Briscoe. Others are sharing that opinion with me. Ask
Dick France. Ask Arlie, for that matter."

"I'm afraid I'm off that young lady's list of friends."

"Sho! She'll come round. She's some hot-haided. It always was her way
to get mad first, and find out why afterward. But don't make any
mistake about her, Steve. She's the salt of the earth, Arlie Dillon
is. She figured it out you wasn't playing it quite on the square with
her. Onct she's milled it around a spell, she'll see things different.
I've knowed her since she was knee-high, and I tell you she's a game
little thoroughbred."

The Texan looked at him a moment, then stared out of the window.

"We won't quarrel about that any, Alec. I'll indorse those sentiments,
and then some, even if she did call me a snake in the grass."

  CHAPTER XII

 THE DANCE

The day after Fraser changed his quarters, Dick France rode up to the
Howard ranch. Without alighting, he nodded casually to Alec, and then
to his guest.

"Hello, Steve! How's the shoulder?"

"Fine and dandy."

"You moved, I see." The puncher grinned.

"If you see it for yourself, I'll not attempt to deny it."

"Being stood in the corner some more, looks like! Little Willie been
telling some more lies?"

"Come in, Dick, and I'll put you wise."

Steve went over the story again. When he mentioned the Squaw Creek
raid, he observed that his two friends looked quickly at each other
and then away. He saw, however, that Dick took his pledge in regard to
the raiders at face value, without the least question of doubt. He
made only one comment on the situation.

"If Jed has served notice that he's going after you, Steve, he'll
ce'tainly back the play. What's more, he won't be any too particular
how he gets you, just so he gets you. He may come a-shooting in the
open. Then, again, he may not. All according to how the notion strikes
him."

"That's about it," agreed Howard.

"While it's fresh on my mind, I'll unload some more comfort. You've
got an enemy in this valley you don't know about."

"The one that shot me?"

"I ain't been told that. I was to say, 'One enemy more than he knows
of.' "

"Who told you to say it?"

"I was to forget to tell you that, Steve."

"Then I must have a friend more than I know of, too."

"I ain't so sure about that. You might call her a hostile friend."

"It's a lady, then. I can guess who."

"Honest, I didn't mean to tell you, Steve. It slipped out."

"I won't hold it against you."

"She sent for me last night, and this morning I dropped round. Now,
what do you reckon she wanted with me?"

"Give it up."

"I'm to take a day off and ride around among the boys, so as to see
them before Jed does. I'm to load 'em up with misrepresentations about
how you and the sheriff happen to be working in cahoots. I gathered
that the lady is through with you, but she don't want your scalp
collected by the boys."

"I'm learning to be thankful for small favors," Fraser said dryly.
"She figures me up a skunk, but hates to have me massacreed in her
back yard. Ain't that about it, Dick?"

"Somewheres betwixt and between," France nodded. "Say, you lads going
to the dance at Millikan's?"

"Didn't know there was one."

"Sure. Big doings. Monday night. Always have a dance after the spring
round-up. Jed and his friends will be there-- that ought to fetch
you!" Dick grinned.

"I haven't noticed any pressing invitation to my address yet," said
Steve.

"I'm extending it right now. Millikan told me to pass the word among
the boys. Everybody and his neighbor invited." Dick lit a cigar, and
gathered up his reins. "So-long, boys. I got to be going." Over his
shoulder he fired another joyous shot as he cantered away. "I reckon
that hostile friend will be there, too, Steve, if that's any
inducement."

Whether it was an inducement is not a matter of record, but certain it
is that the Texan found it easy to decide to go. Everybody in the
valley would be there, and absence on his part would be construed as
weakness, even as a confession of guilt. He had often observed that a
man's friends are strong for him only when he is strong for himself.

Howard and his guest drove to Millikan's Draw, for the wound of the
latter was still too new to stand so long a horseback ride. They
arrived late, and the dance was already in full swing. As they stabled
and fed the team, they could hear the high notes of the fiddles and
the singsong chant of the caller.

"Alemane left. Right han' t'yer pardner, an' gran' right and left.
Ev-v-rybody swing."

The ranch house was a large one, the most pretentious in the valley. A
large hall opened into a living room and a dining room, by means of
large double doors, which had been drawn back, so as to make one room
of them.

As they pushed their way through the crowd of rough young fellows who
clustered round the door, as if afraid their escape might be cut off,
Fraser observed that the floor was already crowded with dancers.

The quadrille came to an end as he arrived, and, after they had seated
their partners, red-faced perspiring young punchers swelled the knot
around the door.

Alec stayed to chaff with them, while the Texan sauntered across the
floor and took a seat on one of the benches which lined the walls. As
he did so, a man and his partner, so busy in talk with each other that
they had not observed who he was, sat down beside him in such position
that the young woman was next him. Without having looked directly at
either of them, Fraser knew that the girl was Arlie Dillon, and her
escort Jed Briscoe. She had her back half turned toward him, so that,
even after she was seated she did not recognize her neighbor.

Steve smiled pleasantly, and became absorbed in a rather noisy bout of
repartee going on between one swain and his lass, not so absorbed,
however, as not to notice that he and his unconscious neighbors were
becoming a covert focus of attention. He had already noticed a shade
of self-consciousness in the greeting of those whom he met, a hint of
a suggestion that he was on trial. Among some this feeling was
evidently more pronounced. He met more than one pair of eyes that gave
back to his genial nod cold hostility.

At such an affair as this, Jed Briscoe was always at his best. He was
one of the few men in the valley who knew how to waltz well, and music
and rhythm always brought out in him a gay charm women liked. His
lithe grace, his assurance, his ease of manner and speech, always
differentiated him from the other ranchmen.

No wonder rumor had coupled his name with that of Arlie as her future
husband. He knew how to make light love by implication, to skate
around the subject skilfully and boldly with innuendo and suggestion.

Arlie knew him for what he was-- a man passionate and revengeful, the
leader of that side of the valley's life which she deplored. She did
not trust him. Nevertheless, she felt his fascination. He made that
appeal to her which a graceless young villain often does to a good
woman who lets herself become interested in trying to understand the
sinner and his sins. There was another reason why just now she showed
him special favor. She wanted to blunt the edge of his anger against
the Texan ranger, though her reason for this she did not admit even to
herself.

She had-- oh, she was quite sure of this-- no longer any interest in
Fraser except the impersonal desire to save his life. Having thought
it all over, she was convinced that her friends had nothing to fear
from him as a spy. That was what he had tried to tell her when she
would not listen.

Deep in her heart she knew why she had not listened. It had to do with
that picture of a pretty girl smiling up happily into his eyes-- a
thing she had not forgotten for one waking moment since. Like a knife
the certainty had stabbed her heart that they were lovers. Her
experience had been limited. Kodaks had not yet reached Lost Valley as
common possessions. In the mountains no girl had her photograph taken
beside a man unless they had a special interest in each other. And the
manner of these two had implied the possession of a secret not known
to the world.

So Arlie froze her heart toward the Texan, all the more because he had
touched her girlish imagination to sweet hidden dreams of which her
innocence had been unnecessarily ashamed. He had spoken no love to
her, nor had he implied it exactly. There had been times she had
thought something more than friendship lay under his warm smile. But
now she scourged herself for her folly, believed she had been
unmaidenly, and set her heart to be like flint against him. She had
been ready to give him what he had not wanted. Before she would let
him guess it she would rather die, a thousand times rather, she told
herself passionately.

She presently became aware that attention was being directed toward
her and Jed and somebody who sat on the other side of her. Without
looking round, she mentioned the fact in a low voice to her partner of
the dance just finished. Jed looked up, and for the first time
observed the man behind her. Instantly the gayety was sponged from his
face.

"Who is it?" she asked.

"That man from Texas."

Arlie felt the blood sting her cheeks. The musicians were just
starting a waltz. She leaned slightly toward Jed, and said, in a low
voice:

"Did you ask me to dance this with you?"

He had not, but he did now. He got to his feet, with shining eyes, and
whirled her off. The girl did not look toward the Texan. Nevertheless,
as they circled the room, she was constantly aware of him. Sitting
there, with a smile on his strong face, apparently unperturbed, he
gave no hint of the stern fact that he was circled by enemies, any one
of whom might carry his death in a hip pocket. His gaze was serene,
unabashed, even amused.

The young woman was irritably suspicious that he found her anger
amusing, just as he seemed to find the dangerous position in which he
was placed. Yet her resentment coexisted with a sympathy for him that
would not down. She believed he was marked for death by a coterie of
those present, chief of whom was the man smiling down into her face
from half-shut, smouldering eyes.

Her heart was a flame of protest against their decree, all the more so
because she held herself partly responsible for it. In a panic of
repentance, she had told Dick of her confession to the ranger of the
names of the Squaw Creek raiders, and France had warned his
confederates. He had done this, not because he distrusted Fraser, but
because he felt it was their due to get a chance to escape if they
wanted to do so.

Always a creature of impulse, Arlie had repented her repentance when
too late. Now she would have fought to save the Texan, but the horror
of it was that she could not guess how the blow would fall. She tried
to believe he was safe, at least until the week was up.

When Dick strolled across the floor, sat down beside Steve, and began
casually to chat with him, she could have thanked the boy with tears.
It was equivalent to a public declaration of his intentions. At least,
the ranger was not friendless. One of the raiders was going to stand
by him. Besides Dick, he might count on Howard; perhaps on others.

Jed was in high good humor. All along the line he seemed to be
winning. Arlie had discarded this intruder from Texas and was showing
herself very friendly to the cattleman. The suspicion of Fraser which
he had disseminated was bearing fruit; and so, more potently, was the
word the girl had dropped incautiously. He had only to wait in order
to see his rival wiped out. So that, when Arlie put in her little
plea, he felt it would not cost him anything to affect a large
generosity.

"Let him go, Jed. He is discredited. Folks are all on their guard
before him now. He can't do any harm here. Dick says he is only
waiting out his week because of your threat. Don't make trouble. Let
him sneak back home, like a whipped cur," she begged.

"I don't want any trouble with him, girl. All I ask is that he leave
the valley. Let Dick arrange that, and I'll give him a chance."

She thanked him, with a look that said more than words.

It was two hours later, when she was waltzing with Jed again, that
Arlie caught sight of a face that disturbed her greatly. It was a
countenance disfigured by a ragged scar, running from the bridge of
the nose. She had last seen it gazing into the window of Alec Howard's
cabin on a certain never-to-be-forgotten night.

"Who is that man-- the one leaning against the door jamb, just behind
Slim Leroy?" she asked.

"He's a fellow that calls himself Johnson. His real name is Struve,"
Jed answered carelessly.

"He's the man that shot the Texas lieutenant," she said.

"I dare say. He's got a good reason for shooting him. The man broke
out of the Arizona penitentiary, and Fraser came north to rearrest
him. At least, that's my guess. He wouldn't have been here to-night if
he hadn't figured Fraser too sick to come. Watch him duck when he
learns the ranger's here."

At the first opportunity Arlie signaled to Dick that she wanted to see
him. Fraser, she observed, was no longer in the dancing rooms. Dick
took her out from the hot room to the porch.

"Let's walk a little, Dick. I want to tell you something."

They sauntered toward the fine grove of pines that ran up the hillside
back of the house.

"Did you notice that man with the scar, Dick?" she presently asked.

"Yes. I ain't seen him before. Must be one of the Rabbit Run guys, I
take it."

"I've seen him. He's the man that shot your friend. He was the man I
shot at when he looked in the window,"

"Sure, Arlie?"

"Dead sure, Dick. He's an escaped convict, and he has a grudge at your
friend. He is afraid of him, too. Look out for Lieutenant Fraser
to-night. Don't let him wander around outside. If he does, there may
be murder done."

Even as she spoke, there came a sound from the wooded hillside-- the
sound of a stifled cry, followed by an imprecation and the heavy
shuffling of feet.

"Listen, Dick!"

For an instant he listened. Then: "There's trouble in the grove, and
I'm not armed," he cried.

"Never mind! Go-- go!" she shrieked, pushing him forward.

For herself, she turned, and ran like a deer for the house.

Siegfried was sitting on the porch, whittling a stick.

"They-- they're killing Steve-- in the grove," she panted.

Without a word he rolled off, like a buffalo cow, toward the scene of
action.

Arlie pushed into the house and called for Jed.

  CHAPTER XIII

 THE WOLF HOWLS

As Steve strolled out into the moonlight, he left behind him the
monotonous thumping of heavy feet and the singsong voice of the
caller.

         "Birdie fly out,
          Crow hop in,
          Join all hands
         And circle ag'in."

came to him, in the high, strident voice of Lute Perkins. He took a
deep breath of fresh, clean air, and looked about him. After the hot,
dusty room, the grove, with its green foliage, through which the
moonlight filtered, looked invitingly cool. He sauntered forward,
climbed the hill up which the wooded patch straggled, and sat down,
with his back to a pine.

Behind the valley rampart, he could see the dim, saw-toothed Teton
peaks, looking like ghostly shapes in the moonlight. The night was
peaceful. Faint and mellow came the sound of jovial romping from the
house; otherwise, beneath the distant stars, a perfect stillness held.

How long he sat there, letting thoughts happen dreamily rather than
producing them of gray matter, he did not know. A slight sound, the
snapping of a twig, brought his mind to alertness without causing the
slightest movement of his body.

His first thought was that, in accordance with dance etiquette in the
ranch country, his revolver was in its holster under the seat of the
trap in which they had driven over. Since his week was not up, he had
expected no attack from Jed and his friends. As for the enemy, of whom
Arlie had advised him, surely a public dance was the last place to
tempt one who apparently preferred to attack from cover. But his
instinct was certain. He did not need to look round to know he was
trapped.

"I'm unarmed. You'd better come round and shoot me from in front. It
will look better at the inquest," he said quietly.

"Don't move. You're surrounded," a voice answered.

A rope snaked forward and descended over the ranger's head, to be
jerked tight, with a suddenness that sent a pain like a knife thrust
through the wounded shoulder. The instinct for self-preservation was
already at work in him. He fought his left arm free from the rope that
pressed it to his side, and dived toward the figure at the end of the
rope. Even as he plunged, he found time to be surprised that no
revolver shot echoed through the night, and to know that the reason
was because his enemies preferred to do their work in silence.

The man upon whom he leaped gave a startled oath and stumbled backward
over a root.

Fraser, his hand already upon the man's throat, went down too. Upon
him charged men from all directions. In the shadows, they must have
hampered each other, for the ranger, despite his wound-- his shoulder
was screaming with pain-- got to his knees, and slowly from his knees
to his feet, shaking the clinging bodies from him.

Wrenching his other hand from under the rope, he fought them back as a
hurt grizzly does the wolf pack gathered for the kill. None but a very
powerful man could ever have reached his feet. None less agile and
sinewy than a panther could have beaten them back as at first he did.
They fought in grim silence, yet the grove was full of the sounds of
battle. The heavy breathing, the beat of shifting feet, the soft
impact of flesh striking flesh, the thud of falling bodies-- of these
the air was vocal. Yet, save for the gasps of sudden pain, no man
broke silence save once.

"The snake'll get away yet!" a hoarse voice cried, not loudly, but
with an emphasis that indicated strong conviction.

Impossible as it seemed, the ranger might have done it but for an
accident. In the struggle, the rope had slipped to a point just below
his knees. Fighting his way down the hill, foot by foot, the Texan
felt the rope tighten. One of his attackers flung himself against his
chest and he was tripped. The pack was on him again. Here there was
more light, and though for a time the mass swayed back and forth, at
last they hammered him down by main strength. He was bound hand and
foot, and dragged back to the grove.

They faced their victim, panting deeply from their exertions. Fraser
looked round upon the circle of distorted faces, and stopped at one.
Seen now, with the fury and malignancy of its triumph painted upon it,
the face was one to bring bad dreams.

The lieutenant, his chest still laboring heavily, racked with the
torture of his torn shoulder, looked into that face out of the only
calm eyes in the group.

"So it's you, Struve?"

"Yes, it's me-- me and my friends."

"I've been looking for you high and low."

"Well, you've found me," came the immediate exultant answer.

"I reckon I'm indebted to you for this." Fraser moved his shoulder
slightly.

"You'll owe me a heap more than that before the night's over."

"Your intentions were good then, I expect. Being shy a trigger finger
spoils a man's aim."

"Not always."

"Didn't like to risk another shot from Bald Knob, eh? Must be some
discouraging to hit only once out of three times at three hundred
yards, and a scratch at that."

The convict swore. "I'll not miss this time, Mr. Lieutenant."

"You'd better not, or I'll take you back to the penitentiary where I
put you before."

"You'll never put another man there, you meddling spy," Struve cried
furiously.

"I'm not so sure of that. I know what you've got against me, but I
should like to know what kick your friends have coming," the ranger
retorted.

"You may have mine, right off the reel, Mr. Fraser, or whatever you
call yourself. You came into this valley with a lie on your lips. We
played you for a friend, and you played us for suckers. All the time
you was in a deal with the sheriff for you know what. I hate a spy
like I do a rattlesnake."

It was the man Yorky that spoke. Steve's eyes met his.

"So I'm a spy, am I?"

"You know best."

"Anyhow, you're going to shoot me first, and find out afterward?"

"Wrong guess. We're going to hang you." Struve, unable to keep back
longer his bitter spleen, hissed this at him.

"Yes, that's about your size, Struve. You can crow loud now, when the
odds are six to one, with the one unarmed and tied at that. But what I
want to know is-- are you playing fair with your friends? Have you
told them that every man in to-night's business will hang, sure as
fate? Have you told them of those cowardly murders you did in Arizona
and Texas? Have you told them that your life is forfeit, anyway? Do
they know you're trying to drag them into your troubles? No? You
didn't tell them that. I'm surprised at you, Struve."

"My name's Johnson."

"Not in Arizona, it isn't. Wolf Struve it is there, wanted for murder
and other sundries." He turned swiftly from him to his confederates.
"You fools, you're putting your heads into a noose. He's in already,
and wants you in, too. Test him. Throw the end of that rope over the
limb, and stand back, while he pulls me up alone. He daren't-- not for
his life, he daren't. He knows that whoever pulls on that rope hangs
himself as surely as he hangs me."

The men looked at each other, and at Struve. Were they being led into
trouble to pay this man's scores off for him? Suspicion stirred
uneasily in them.

"That's right, too. Let Johnson pull him up," Slim Leroy said
sullenly.

"Sure. You've got more at stake than we have. It's up to you,
Johnson," Yorky agreed.

"That's right," a third chipped in.

"We'll all pull together, boys," Struve insinuated. "It's only a bluff
of his. Don't let him scare you off."

"He ain't scaring me off any," declared Yorky. "He's a spy, and he's
getting what is coming to him. But you're a stranger too, Johnson. I
don't trust you any-- not any farther than I can see you, my friend.
I'll stand for being an aider and abettor, but I reckon if there's any
hanging to be done you'll have to be the sheriff," replied Yorky
stiffly.

Struve turned his sinister face on one and another of them. His lips
were drawn back, so that the wolfish teeth gleamed in the moonlight.
He felt himself being driven into a trap, from which there was no
escape. He dared not let Fraser go with his life, for he knew that,
sooner or later, the ranger would run him to earth, and drag him back
to the punishment that was awaiting him in the South. Nor did he want
to shoulder the responsibility of murdering this man before five
witnesses.

Came the sound of running footsteps.

"What's that?" asked Slim nervously.

"Where are you, Steve?" called a voice.

"Here," the ranger shouted back.

A moment later Dick France burst into the group. "What's doing?" he
panted.

The ranger laughed hardily. "Nothing, Dick. Nothing at all. Some of
the boys had notions of a necktie party, but they're a little shy of
sand. Have you met Mr. Struve, Dick? I know you're acquainted with the
others, Mr. Struve is from Yuma. An old friend of mine. Fact is, I
induced him to locate at Yuma."

Dick caught at the rope, but Yorky flung him roughly back.

"This ain't your put in, France," he said. "It's up to Johnson." And
to the latter: "Get busy, if you're going to."

"He's a spy on you-all, just the same as he is on me," blurted the
convict.

"That's a lie, Struve," pronounced the lieutenant evenly. "I'm going
to take you back with me, but I've got nothing against these men. I
want to announce right now, no matter who tells a different story,
that I haven't lost any Squaw Creek raiders and I'm not hunting any."

"You hear? He came into this valley after me."

"Wrong again, Struve. I didn't know you were here. But I know now, and
I serve notice that I'm going to take you back with me, dead or alive.
That's what I'm paid for, and that's what I'm going to do."

It was amazing to hear this man, with a rope round his neck, announce
calmly what he was going to do to the man who had only to pull that
rope to send him into eternity. The very audacity of it had its
effect.

Slim spoke up. "I don't reckon we better go any farther with this
thing, Yorky."

"No, I don't reckon you had," cut in Dick sharply. "I'll not stand for
it."

Again the footsteps of a running man reached them. It was Siegfried.
He plunged into the group like a wild bull, shook the hair out of his
eyes, and planted himself beside Fraser. With one backward buffet of
his great arm he sent Johnson heels over head. He caught Yorky by the
shoulders, strong man though the latter was, and shook him till his
teeth rattled, after which he flung him reeling a dozen yards to the
ground. The Norwegian was reaching for Dick when Fraser stopped him.

"That's enough of a clean-up right now, Sig. Dick butted in like you
to help me," he explained.

"The durned coyotes!" roared the big Norseman furiously, leaping at
Leroy and tossing him over his head as an enraged bull does. He turned
upon the other three, shaking his tangled mane, but they were already
in flight.

"I'll show them. I'll show them," he kept saying as he came back to
the man he had rescued.

"You've showed them plenty, Sig. Cut out the rough house before you
maim some of these gents who didn't invite you to their party."

The ranger felt the earth sway beneath him as he spoke. His wound had
been torn loose in the fight, and was bleeding. Limply he leaned
against the tree for support.

It was at this moment he caught sight of Arlie and Briscoe as they ran
up. Involuntarily he straightened almost jauntily. The girl looked at
him with that deep, eager look of fear he had seen before, and met
that unconquerable smile of his.

The rope was still round his neck and the coat was stripped from his
back. He was white to the lips, and she could see he could scarce
stand, even with the support of the pine trunk. His face was bruised
and battered. His hat was gone; and hidden somewhere in his crisp
short hair was a cut from which blood dripped to the forehead. The
bound arm had been torn from its bandages in the unequal battle he had
fought. But for all his desperate plight he still carried the
invincible look that nothing less than death can rob some men of.

The fretted moonlight, shifting with the gentle motion of the foliage
above, fell full upon him now and showed a wet, red stain against the
white shirt. Simultaneously outraged nature collapsed, and he began to
sink to the ground.

Arlie gave a little cry and ran forward. Before he reached the ground
he had fainted; yet scarcely before she was on her knees beside him
with his head in her arms.

"Bring water, Dick, and tell Doc Lee to come at once. He'll be in the
back room smoking. Hurry!" She looked fiercely round upon the men
assembled. "I think they have killed him. Who did this? Was it you,
Yorky? Was it you that murdered him?"

"I bane t'ink it take von hoondred of them to do it," said Siegfried.
"Dat fallar, Johnson, he bane at the bottom of it."

"Then why didn't you kill him? Aren't you Steve's friend? Didn't he
save your life?" she panted, passion burning in her beautiful eyes.

Siegfried nodded. "I bane Steve's friend, yah! And Ay bane kill
Johnson eef Steve dies."

Briscoe, furious at this turn of the tide which had swept Arlie's
sympathies back to his enemy, followed Struve as he sneaked deeper
into the shadow of the trees. The convict was nursing a sprained wrist
when Jed reached him.

"What do you think you've been trying to do, you sap-headed idiot?"
Jed demanded. "Haven't you sense enough to choose a better time than
one when the whole settlement is gathered to help him? And can't you
ever make a clean job of it, you chuckle-minded son of a greaser?"

Struve turned, snarling, on him. "That'll be enough from you, Briscoe.
I've stood about all I'm going to stand just now."

"You'll stand for whatever I say," retorted Jed. "You've cooked your
goose in this valley by to-night's fool play. I'm the only man that
can pull you through. Bite on that fact, Mr. Struve, before you unload
your bile on me."

The convict's heart sank. He felt it to be the truth. The last thing
he had heard was Siegfried's threat to kill him.

Whether Fraser lived or died he was in a precarious position and he
knew it.

"I know you're my friend, Jed," he whined. "I'll do what you say.
Stand by me and I'll sure work with you."

"Then if you take my advice you'll sneak down to the corral, get your
horse, and light out for the run. Lie there till I see you."

"And Siegfried?"

"The Swede won't trouble you unless this Texan dies. I'll send you
word in time if he does."

Later a skulking shadow sneaked into the corral and out again. Once
out of hearing, it leaped to the back of the horse and galloped wildly
into the night.

  CHAPTER XIV

 HOWARD EXPLAINS

Two horsemen rode into Millikan's Draw and drew up in front of the big
ranch house. To the girl who stepped to the porch to meet them they
gave friendly greeting. One of them asked:

"How're things coming, Arlie?"

"Better and better every day, Dick. Yesterday the doctor said he was
out of danger."

"It's been a tough fight for Steve," the other broke in. "Proper
nursing is what pulled him through. Doc says so."

"Did he say that, Alec? I'll always think it was doc. He fought for
that life mighty hard, boys."

Alec Howard nodded: "Doc Lee's the stuff. Here he comes now, talking
of angels."

Doctor Lee dismounted and grinned. "Which of you lads is she making
love to now?"

Arlie laughed. "He can't understand that I don't make love to anybody
but him," she explained to the younger men.

"She never did to me, doc," Dick said regretfully.

"No, we were just talking about you, doc."

"Fire ahead, young woman," said the doctor, with assumed severity.
"I'm here to defend myself now."

"Alec was calling you an angel, and I was laughing at him," said the
girl demurely.

"An angel-- huh!" he snorted.

"I never knew an angel that chewed tobacco, or one that could swear
the way you do when you're mad," continued Arlie.

"I don't reckon your acquaintance with angels is much greater than
mine, Miss Arlie Dillon. How's the patient?"

"He's always wanting something to eat, and he's cross as a bear."

"Good for him! Give him two weeks now and he'll be ready to whip his
weight in wild cats."

The doctor disappeared within, and presently they could hear his loud,
cheerful voice pretending to berate the patient.

Arlie sat down on the top step of the porch.

"Boys, I don't know what I would have done if he had died. It would
have been all my fault. I had no business to tell him the names of you
boys that rode in the raid, and afterward to tell you that I told
him," she accused herself.

"No, you had no business to tell him, though it happens he's safe as a
bank vault," Howard commented.

"I don't know how I came to do it," the girl continued. "Jed had made
me suspicious of him, and then I found out something fine he had done
for me. I wanted him to know I trusted him. That was the first thing I
thought of, and I told it. He tried to stop me, but I'm such an
impulsive little fool."

"We all make breaks, Arlie. You'll not do it again, anyhow," France
comforted.

Doctor Lee presently came out and pronounced that the wounded man was
doing well. "Wants to see you boys. Don't stay more than half an hour.
If they get in your way, sweep 'em out, Arlie."

The cowpunchers entered the sick room with the subdued, gingerly tread
of professional undertakers.

"I ain't so had as that yet, boys," the patient laughed. "You're
allowed to speak above a whisper. Doc thinks I'll last till night,
mebbe, if I'm careful."

They told him all the gossip of the range-- how young Ford had run off
with Sallie Laundon and got married to her down at the Butte; how
Siegfried had gone up and down the valley swearing he would clean out
Jack Rabbit Run if Steve died; how Johnson had had another row with
Jed and had chosen to take water rather than draw. Both of his
visitors, however, had something on their minds they found some
difficulty in expressing.

Alec Howard finally broached it.

"Arlie told you the names of some of the boys that were in the Squaw
Creek sheep raid. She made a mistake in telling you anything, but
we'll let that go in the discard. It ain't necessary that you should
know the names of the others, but I'm going to tell you one of them,
Steve."

"No, I don't want to know."

"This is my say-so. His name is Alec Howard."

"I'm sorry to hear that, Alec. I don't know why you have told me."

"Because I want you to know the facts of that raid, Steve. No killing
was on the program. That came about in a way none of us could
foresee."

"This is how it was, Steve," explained Dick. "Word came that Campeau
was going to move his sheep into the Squaw Creek district. Sheep never
had run there. It was understood the range there was for our cattle.
We had set a dead line, and warned them not to cross it. Naturally, it
made us sore when we heard about Campeau.

"So some of us gathered together hastily and rode over. Our intentions
were declared. We meant to drive the sheep back and patrol the dead
line. It was solemnly agreed that there was to be no shooting, not
even of sheep."

The story halted here for a moment before Howard took it up again.
"Things don't always come out the way you figure them. We didn't
anticipate any trouble. We outnumbered them two to one. We had the
advantage of the surprise. You couldn't guess that for anything but a
cinch, could you?"

"And it turned out different?"

"One of us stumbled over a rock as we were creeping forward. Campeau
heard us and drew. The first shot came from them. Now, I'm going to
tell you something you're to keep under your own hat. It will surprise
you a heap when I tell you that one man on our side did all the
damage. He was at the haid of the line, and it happens he is a dead
shot. He is liable to rages, when he acts like a crazy man. He got one
now. Before we could put a stopper on him, he had killed Campeau and
Jennings, and wounded the herders. The whole thing was done before you
could wink an eye six times. For just about that long we stood there
like roped calves. Then we downed the man in his tracks, slammed him
with the butt of a revolver."

Howard stopped and looked at the ranger before he spoke again. His
voice was rough and hoarse.

"Steve, I've seen men killed before, but I never saw anything so awful
as that. It was just like they had been struck by lightning for
suddenness. There was that devil scattering death among them and the
poor fellows crumpling up like rabbits. I tell you every time I think
of it the thing makes me sick."

The ranger nodded. He understood. The picture rose before him of a man
in a Berserk rage, stark mad for the moment, playing Destiny on that
lonely, moonlit hill. The face his instinct fitted to the
irresponsible murderer was that of Jed Briscoe. Somehow he was sure of
that, beyond the shadow of a doubt. His imagination conceived that
long ride back across the hills, the deep agonies of silence, the
fierce moments of vindictive accusation. No doubt for long the tug of
conscience was with them in all their waking hours, for these men were
mostly simple-minded cattlemen caught in the web of evil chance.

"That's how it was, Steve. In as long as it takes to empty a
Winchester, we were every one of us guilty of a murder we'd each have
given a laig to have stopped. We were all in it, all tied together,
because we had broke the law to go raiding in the first place.
Technically, the man that emptied that rifle wasn't any more guilty
than us poor wretches that stood frozen there while he did it. Put it
that we might shave the gallows, even then the penitentiary would bury
us. There was only one thing to do. We agreed to stand together, and
keep mum."

"Is that why you're telling me, Alec?" Fraser smiled.

"We ain't telling you, not legally," the cow-puncher answered coolly.
"If you was ever to say we had, Dick and me would deny it. But we
ain't worrying any about you telling it. You're a clam, and we know
it. No, we're telling you, son, because we want you to know about how
it was. The boys didn't ride out to do murder. They rode out simply to
drive the sheep off their range."

The Texan nodded. "That's about how I figured it. I'm glad you told
me, boys. I reckon I don't need to tell you I'm padlocked in regard to
this."

Arlie came to the door and looked in. "It's time you boys were going.
Doc said a half hour"

"All right, Arlie," responded Dick. "So-long, Steve. Be good, you old
pie eater."

After they had gone, the Texan lay silent for a long time. He
understood perfectly their motive in telling him the story. They had
not compromised themselves legally, since a denial would have given
them two to one in the matter of witnesses. But they wished him to see
that, morally, every man but one who rode on that raid was guiltless
of the Squaw Creek murders.

Arlie came in presently, and sat down near the window with some
embroidery.

"Did the boys tire you?" she asked, noting his unusual silence.

"No. I was thinking about what they told me. They were giving me the
inside facts of the Squaw Creek raid."

She looked up in surprise. "They were?" A little smile began to dimple
the corners of her mouth. "That's funny, because they had just got
through forgiving me for what I told you."

"What they told me was how the shooting occurred."

"I don't know anything about that. When I told you their names I was
only telling what I had heard people whisper. That's all I knew."

"You've been troubled because your friends were in this, haven't you?
You hated to think it of them, didn't you?" he asked.

"Yes. It has troubled me a lot."

"Don't let it trouble you any more. One man was responsible for all
the bloodshed. He went mad and saw red for half a minute. Before the
rest could stop him, the slaughter was done. The other boys aren't
guilty of that, any more than you or I."

"Oh, I'm glad-- I'm glad," she cried softly. Then, looking up quickly
to him: "Who was the man?" she asked.

"I don't know. It is better that neither of us should know that."

"I'm glad the boys told you. It shows they trust you."

"They figure me out a white man," he answered carelessly.

"Ah! That's where I made my mistake." She looked at him bravely,
though the color began to beat into her cheeks beneath the dusky tan.
"Yet I knew it all the time-- in my heart. At least, after I had given
myself time to think it over. I knew you couldn't be that. If I had
given you time to explain-- but I always think too late."

His eyes, usually so clear and steely, softened at her words. "I'm
satisfied if you knew-- in your heart."

"I meant----" she began, with a flush.

"Now, don't spoil it, please," he begged.

Under his steady, half-smiling gaze, her eyes fell. Two weeks ago she
had been a splendid young creature, as untaught of life as one of the
wild forest animals and as unconsciously eager for it. But there had
come a change over her, a birth of womanhood from that night when she
had stood between Stephen Fraser and death. No doubt she would often
regret it, but she had begun to live more deeply. She could never go
back to the care-free days when she could look all men in the face
with candid, girlish eyes. The time had come to her, as it must to all
sensitive of life, when she must drink of it, whether she would or no.

"Because I'd rather you would know it in your heart than in your
mind," he said.

Something sweet and terrifying, with the tingle and warmth of rare
wine in it, began to glow in her veins. Eyes shy, eager, frightened,
met his for an instant. Then she remembered the other girl. Something
hard as steel ran through her. She turned on her heel and left the
room.

  CHAPTER XV

 THE TEXAN PAYS A VISIT

From that day Fraser had a new nurse. Arlie disappeared, and her aunt
replaced her a few hours later and took charge of the patient. Steve
took her desertion as an irritable convalescent does, but he did not
let his disappointment make him unpleasant to Miss Ruth Dillon.

"I'm a chump," he told himself, with deep disgust. "Hadn't any more
sense than to go scaring off the little girl by handing out a line of
talk she ain't used to. I reckon now she's done with me proper."

He continued to improve so rapidly that within the prescribed two
weeks he was on horseback again, though still a little weak and washed
out. His first ride of any length was to the Dillon ranch. Siegfried
accompanied him, and across the Norwegian's saddle lay a very
business-like rifle.

As they were passing the mouth of a caon, the ranger put a casual
question: "This Jack Rabbit Run, Sig?"

"Yah. More men wanted bane lost in that gulch than any place Ay knows
of."

"That so? I'm going in there to-morrow to find that man Struve," his
friend announced carelessly.

The big blonde giant looked at him. "Yuh bain't, Steve? Why, yuh
bain't fit to tackle a den uh wild cats." An admiring grin lit the
Norwegian's face. "Durn my hide, yuh've got 'em all skinned for grit,
Steve. Uh course, Ay bane goin' with yuh."

"If it won't get you in bad with your friends I'll be glad to have
you, Sig."

"They bain't my friends. Ay bane shook them, an' served notice to that
effect."

"Glad of it."

"Yuh bane goin' in after Struve only?"

"Yes. He's the only man I want."

"Then Ay bane go in, and bring heem out to yuh."

Fraser shook his head. "No, old man, I've got to play my own hand."

"Ay t'ink it be a lot safer f'r me to happen in an' get heem,"
remonstrated Siegfried.

"Safer for me," corrected the lieutenant, smiling. "No, I can't work
that way. I've got to take my own chances. You can go along, though,
on one condition. You're not to interfere between me and Struve. If
some one else butts in, you may ask him why, if you like.

"Ay bane t'ink yuh von fool, Steve. But Ay bane no boss. Vat yuh says
goes."

They found Arlie watering geraniums in front of the house. Siegfried
merely nodded to her and passed on to the stables with the horses.
Fraser dismounted, offering her his hand and his warm smile.

He had caught her without warning, and she was a little shy of him.
Not only was she embarrassed, but she saw that he knew it. He sat down
on the step, while she continued to water her flowers.

"You see your bad penny turned up again, Miss Arlie," he said.

"I didn't know you were able to ride yet, Lieutenant Fraser."

"This is my first try at it. Thought I'd run over and say 'Thank you'
to my nurse."

"I'll call auntie," she said quickly.

He shook his head. "Not necessary, Miss Arlie. I settled up with her.
I was thinking of the nurse that ran off and left me."

She was beginning to recover herself. "You want to thank her for
leaving while there was still hope," she said, with a quick little
smile.

"Why did you do it? I've been mighty lonesome the past two weeks," he
said quietly.

"You would be, of course. You are used to an active outdoor life, and
I suppose the boys couldn't get round to see you very often."

"I wasn't thinking of the boys," he meditated aloud.

Arlie blushed; and to hide her embarrassment she called to Jimmie, who
was passing: "Bring up Lieutenant Fraser's Teddy. I want him to see
how well we're caring for his horse."

As a diversion, Teddy served very well. Horse and owner were both
mightily pleased to see each other. While the animal rubbed its nose
against his coat, the ranger teased and petted it.

"Hello, you old Teddy hawss. How air things a-comin', pardner?" he
drawled, with a reversion to his Texas speech. "Plumb tickled to death
to meet up with yore old master, ain't you? How come it you ain't
fallen in love with this young lady and forgot Steve?"

"He thinks a lot of me, too," Arlie claimed promptly.

"Don't blame you a bit, Teddy. I'll ce'tainly shake hands with you on
that. But life's jest meetin' and partin', old hawss. I got to take
you away for good, day after to-morrow."

"Where are you going?" the girl asked quickly. Then, to cover the
swift interest of her question: "But, of course, it is time you were
going back to your business."

"No, ma'am, that is just it. Seems to me either too soon or too late
to be going."

She had her face turned from him, and was busy over her plants, to
hide the tremulous dismay that had shaken her at his news.

She did not ask him what he meant, nor did she ask again where he was
going. For the moment, she could not trust her voice to say more.

"Too late, because I've seen in this valley some one I'll never
forget, and too soon because that some one will forget me, sure as a
gun," he told her.

"Not if you write to him."

"It isn't a him. It's my little nurse."

"I'll tell auntie how you feel about it, and I'm sure she won't forget
you."

"You know mighty well I ain't talking about auntie."

"Then I suppose you must mean me."

"That's who I'm meaning."

"I think I'll be able to remember you if I try-- by Teddy," she
answered, without looking at him, and devoted herself to petting the
horse.

"Is it-- would it be any use to say any more, Arlie?" he asked, in a
low voice, as he stood beside her, with Teddy's nose in his hands.

"I-- I don't know what you mean, sir. Please don't say anything more
about it." Then again memory of the other girl flamed through her.
"No, it wouldn't-- not a bit of use, not a bit," she broke out
fiercely.

"You mean you couldn't----"

The flame in her face, the eyes that met his, as if drawn by a magnet,
still held their anger, but mingled with it was a piteous plea for
mercy. "I-- I'm only a girl. Why don't you let me alone?" she cried
bitterly, and hard upon her own words turned and ran from the room.

Steve looked after her in amazed surprise. "Now don't it beat the band
the way a woman takes a thing."

Dubiously he took himself to the stable and said good-by to Dillon.

An hour later she went down to dinner still flushed and excited.
Before she had been in the room two minutes her father gave her a
piece of startling news.

"I been talking to Steve. Gracious, gyurl, what do you reckon that
boy's a-goin' to do?"

Arlie felt the color leap into her cheeks.

"What, dad?"

"He's a'goin' back to Gimlet Butte, to give himself up to Brandt, day
after to-morrow."

"But-- what for?" she gasped.

"Durned if I know! He's got some fool notion about playin' fair. Seems
he came into the Cedar Mountain country to catch the Squaw Creek
raiders. Brandt let him escape on that pledge. Well, he's give up that
notion, and now he thinks, dad gum it, that it's up to him to
surrender to Brandt again."

The girl's eyes were like stars. "And he's going to go back there and
give himself up, to be tried for killing Faulkner."

Dillon scratched his head. "By gum, gyurl, I didn't think of that. We
cayn't let him go."

"Yes, we can."

"Why, honey, he didn't kill Faulkner, looks like. We cayn't let him go
back there and take our medicine for us. Mebbe he would be lynched.
It's a sure thing he'd be convicted."

"Never mind. Let him go. I've got a plan, dad." Her vivid face was
alive with the emotion which spoke in it. "When did he say he was
going?" she asked buoyantly.

"Day after to-morrow. Seems he's got business that keeps him hyer
to-morrow. What's yore idee, honey?"

She got up, and whispered it in his ear. His jaw dropped, and he
stared at her in amazement.

  CHAPTER XVI

 THE WOLF BITES

Steve came drowsily to consciousness from confused dreams of a cattle
stampede and the click of rifles in the hands of enemies who had the
drop on him. The rare, untempered sunshine of the Rockies poured into
his window from a world outside, wonderful as the early morning of
creation. The hillside opposite was bathed miraculously in a flood of
light, in which grasshoppers fiddled triumphantly their joy in life.
The sources of his dreams discovered themselves in the bawl of thirsty
cattle and the regular clicking of a windmill.

A glance at his watch told him that it was six o'clock.

"Time to get up, Steve," he told himself, and forthwith did.

He chose a rough crash towel, slipped on a pair of Howard's moccasins,
and went down to the river through an ambient that had the sparkle and
exhilaration of champagne. The mountain air was still finely crisp
with the frost, in spite of the sun warmth that was beginning to
mellow it. Flinging aside the Indian blanket he had caught up before
leaving the cabin, he stood for an instant on the bank, a human being
with the physical poise, compactness, and lithe-muscled smoothness of
a tiger.

Even as he plunged a rifle cracked. While he dived through the air,
before the shock of the icy water tingled through him, he was planning
his escape. The opposite bank rose ten feet above the stream. He kept
under the water until he came close to this, then swam swiftly along
it with only his head showing, so as to keep him out of sight as much
as possible.

Half a stone's throw farther the bank fell again to the water's edge,
the river having broadened and grown shallow, as mountain creeks do.
The ranger ran, stooping, along the bank, till it afforded him no more
protection, then dashed across the stony-bottomed stream to the
shelter of the thick aspens beyond.

Just as he expected, a shot rang from far up the mountainside. In
another instant he was safe in the foliage of the young aspens.

In the sheer exhilaration of his escape he laughed aloud.

"Last show to score gone, Mr. Struve. I figured it just right. He
waited too long for his first shot. Then the bank hid me. He wasn't
expecting to see me away down the stream, so he hadn't time to sight
his second one."

Steve wound his way in and out among the aspens, working toward the
tail of them, which ran up the hill a little way and dropped down
almost to the back door of the cabin. Upon this he was presently
pounding.

Howard let him in. He had a revolver in his hand, the first weapon he
could snatch up.

"You durned old idiot! It's a wonder you ain't dead three ways for
Sunday," he shouted joyfully at sight of him. "Ain't I told you 'steen
times to do what bathin' you got to do, right here in the shack?"

The Texan laughed again. Naked as that of Father Adam, his splendid
body was glowing with the bath and the exercise.

"He's ce'tainly the worst chump ever, Alec. Had me in sight all the
way down to the creek, but waited till I wasn't moving. Reckon he was
nervous. Anyhow, he waited just one-tenth of a second too late. Shot
just as I leaned forward for my dive. He gave me a free hair-cut
though."

A swath showed where the bullet had mowed a furrow of hair so close
that in one place it had slightly torn the scalp.

"He shot again, didn't he?"

"Yep. I swam along the far bank, so that he couldn't get at me, and
crossed into the aspens. He got another chance as I was crossing, but
he had to take it on the fly, and missed."

The cattleman surveyed the hillside cautiously through the front
window. "I reckon he's pulled his freight, most likely. But we'll stay
cooped for a while, on the chance. You're the luckiest cuss I ever did
see. More lives than a cat."

Howard laid his revolver down within reach, and proceeded to light a
fire in the stove, from which rose presently the pleasant odors of
aromatic coffee and fried ham and eggs.

"Come and get it, Steve," said Howard, by way of announcing breakfast.
"No, you don't. I'll take the window seat, and at that we'll have the
curtain drawn."

They were just finishing breakfast when Siegfried cantered up.

"You bane ready, Steve?" he called in.

Howard appeared in the doorway. "Say, Sig, go down to the corral and
saddle up Teddy for Steve, will you? Some of his friends have been
potshotting at him again. No damage done, except to my feelings, but
there's nothing like being careful."

Siegfried's face darkened. "Ay bane like for know who it vas?"

Howard laughed. "Now, if you'll tell Steve that he'll give you as much
as six bits, Sig. He's got notions, but they ain't worth any more than
yours or mine. Say, where you boys going to-day? I've a notion to go
along."

"Oh, just out for a little pasear," Steve answered casually. "Thought
you were going to work on your south fence to-day."

"Well, I reckon I better. It sure needs fixing. You lads take good
care of yourselves. I don't need to tell you not to pass anywhere near
the run, Sig," he grinned, with the manner of one giving a superfluous
warning.

Fraser looked at Siegfried, with a smile in his eyes. "No, we'll not
pass the run to-day, Alec."

A quarter of an hour later they were in the saddle and away. Siegfried
did not lead his friend directly up the caon that opened into Jack
Rabbit Run, but across the hills to a pass, which had to be taken on
foot. They left the horses picketed on a grassy slope, and climbed the
faint trail that went steeply up the bowlder-strewn mountain.

The ascent was so steep that the last bit had to be done on all fours.
It was a rock face, though by no means an impossible one, since
projecting ledges and knobs offered a foothold all the way. From the
summit, the trail edged its way down so precipitously that twice
fallen pines had to be used as ladders for the descent.

As soon as they were off the rocks, the big blonde gave the signal for
silence. "Ay bane t'ink we might meet up weeth some one," he
whispered, and urged Steve to follow him as closely as possible.

It was half an hour later that Sig pointed out a small clearing ahead
of them. "Cabin's right oop on the edge of the aspens. See it?"

The ranger nodded assent.

"Ay bane go down first an' see how t'ings look."

When the Norwegian entered the cabin, he saw two men seated at a
table, playing seven up. The one facing him was Tommie, the cook; the
other was an awkward heavy-set fellow, whom he knew for the man he
wanted, even before the scarred, villainous face was twisted toward
him.

Struve leaped instantly to his feet, overturning his chair in his
haste. He had not met the big Norseman since the night he had
attempted to hang Fraser.

"Ay bane not shoot yuh now," Siegfried told him.

"Right sure of that, are you?" the convict snarled, his hand on his
weapon. "If you've got any doubts, now's the time to air them, and
we'll settle this thing right now."

"Ay bane not shoot, Ay tell you."

Tommie, who had ducked beneath the table at the prospect of trouble,
now cautiously emerged.

"I ain't lost any pills from either of your guns, gents," he
explained, with a face so laughably and frankly frightened that both
of the others smiled.

"Have a drink, Siegfried," suggested Struve, by way of sealing the
treaty. "Tommie, get out that bottle."

"Ay bane t'ink Ay look to my horse first," the Norwegian answered, and
immediately left by way of the back door not three minutes before Jed
Briscoe entered by the front one.

Jed shut the door behind him and looked at the convict.

"Well?" he demanded.

Struve faced him sullenly, without answering.

"Tommie, vamos," hinted Briscoe gently, and as soon as the cook had
disappeared, he repeated his monosyllable: "Well?"

"It didn't come off," muttered the other sulkily.

"Just what I expected. Why not?"

Struve broke into a string of furious oaths. "Because I missed him--
missed him twice, when he was standing there naked before me. He was
coming down to the creek to take a bath, and I waited till he was
close. I had a sure bead on him, and he dived just as I fired. I got
another chance, when he was running across, farther down, and, by
thunder, I missed again."

Jed laughed, and the sound of it was sinister.

"Couldn't hit the side of a house, could you? You're nothing but a
cheap skate, a tin-horn gambler, run down at the heels. All right. I'm
through with you. Lieutenant Fraser, from Texas, can come along and
collect whenever he likes. I'll not protect a false alarm like you any
longer."

Struve looked at him, as a cornered wolf might have done. "What will
you do?"

"I'll give you up to him. I'll tell him to come in and get you. I'll
show him the way in, you white-livered cur!" bullied the cattleman,
giving way to one of his rages.

"You'd better not," snarled the convict. "Not if you want to live."

As they stood facing each other in a panting fury the door opened, to
let in Siegfried and the ranger.

Jed's rage against Struve died on the spot. He saw his enemy, the
ranger, before him, and leaped to the conclusion that he had come to
this hidden retreat to run him down for the Squaw Creek murders.
Instantly, his hand swept to the hilt of his revolver.

That motion sealed his doom. For Struve knew that Siegfried had
brought the ranger to capture him, and suspected in the same flash
that Briscoe was in on the betrayal. Had not the man as good as told
him so, not thirty seconds before? He supposed that Jed was drawing to
kill or cover him, and, like a flash of lightning, unscabbarded and
fired.

"You infernal Judas, I'll get you anyhow," he cried.

Jed dropped his weapon, and reeled back against the wall, where he
hung for a moment, while the convict pumped a second and a third
bullet into his body. Briscoe was dead before Fraser could leap
forward and throw his arms round the man who had killed him.

Between them, they flung Struve to the ground, and disarmed him. The
convict's head had struck as he went down, and it was not for some
little time that he recovered fully from his daze. When he did his
hands were tied behind him.

"I didn't go for to kill him," he whimpered, now thoroughly frightened
at what he had done. "You both saw it, gentlemen. You did, lieutenant.
So did you, Sig. It was self-defense. He drew on me. I didn't go to do
it."

Fraser was examining the dead man's wounds. He looked up, and said to
his friend: "Nothing to do for him, Sig. He's gone."

"I tell you, I didn't mean to do it," pleaded Struve. "Why,
lieutenant, that man has been trying to get me to ambush you for
weeks. I'll swear it." The convict was in a panic of terror, ready to
curry favor with the man whom he held his deadliest enemy. "Yes,
lieutenant, ever since you came here. He's been egging me on to kill
you."

"And you tried it three times?"

"No, sir." He pointed vindictively at the dead man, lying face up on
the floor. "It was him that ambushed you this morning. I hadn't a
thing to do with it."

"Don't lie, you coward."

They carried the body to the next room and put it on a bed. Tommie was
dispatched on a fast horse for help.

Late in the afternoon he brought back with him Doctor Lee, and half an
hour after sunset Yorky and Slim galloped up. They were for settling
the matter out of hand by stringing the convict Struve up to the
nearest pine, but they found the ranger so very much on the spot that
they reconsidered.

"He's my prisoner, gentlemen. I came in here and took him-- that is,
with the help of my friend Siegfried. I reckon if you mill it over a
spell, you'll find you don't want him half as bad as we do," he said
mildly.

"What's the matter with all of us going in on this thing, lieutenant?"
proposed Yorky.

"I never did see such a fellow for necktie parties as you are, Yorky.
Not three weeks ago, you was invitin' me to be chief mourner at one of
your little affairs, and your friend Johnson was to be master of
ceremonies. Now you've got the parts reversed. No, I reckon we'll have
to disappoint you this trip."

"What are you going to do with him?" asked Yorky, with plain
dissatisfaction.

"I'm going to take him down to Gimlet Butte. Arizona and Wyoming and
Texas will have to scrap it out for him there." "When, you get him
there," Yorky said significantly.

"Yes, when I get him there," answered the Texan blandly, carefully
oblivious of the other's implication.

The moon was beginning to show itself over a hill before the Texan and
Siegfried took the road with their captive. Fraser had carelessly let
drop a remark to the effect that they would spend the night at the
Dillon ranch.

His watch showed eleven o'clock before they reached the ranch, but he
pushed on without turning in and did not stop until they came to the
Howard place.

They roused Alec from sleep, and he cooked them a post-midnight
supper, after which he saddled his cow pony, buckled on his belt, and
took down his old rifle from the rack.

"I'll jog along with you lads and see the fun," he said.

Their prisoner had not eaten. The best he could do was to gulp down
some coffee, for he was in a nervous chill of apprehension. Every gust
of wind seemed to carry to him the patter of pursuit. The hooting of
an owl sent a tremor through him.

"Don't you reckon we had better hurry?" he had asked with dry lips
more than once, while the others were eating.

He asked it again as they were setting off.

Howard looked him over with rising disgust, without answering.
Presently, he remarked, apropos of nothing: "Are all your Texas wolves
coyotes, Steve?"

He would have liked to know at least that it was a man whose life he
was protecting, even though the fellow was also a villain. But this
crumb of satisfaction was denied him.

  CHAPTER XVII

 ON THE ROAD TO GIMLET BUTTE

"We'll go out by the river way," said Howard tentatively. "Eh, what
think, Sig? It's longer, but Yorky will be expecting us to take the
short cut over the pass."

The Norwegian agreed. "It bane von chance, anyhow."

By unfrequented trails they traversed the valley till they reached the
caon down which poured Squaw Creek on its way to the outside world. A
road ran alongside this for a mile or two, but disappeared into the
stream when the gulch narrowed. The first faint streaks of gray dawn
were lightening the sky enough for Fraser to see this. He was riding
in advance, and commented upon it to Siegfried, who rode with him.

The Norwegian laughed. "Ay bane t'ink we do some wadin'."

They swung off to the right, and a little later splashed through the
water for a few minutes and came out into a spreading valley beyond
the sheer walls of the retreat they had left. Taking the road again,
they traveled faster than they had been able to do before.

"Who left the valley yesterday for Gimlet Butte, Sig?" Howard asked,
after it was light enough to see. "I notice tracks of two horses."

"Ay bane vondering. Ay t'ink mebbe West over----"

"I reckon not. This ain't the track of his big bay. Must 'a' been
yesterday, too, because it rained the night before."

For some hours they could see occasionally the tracks of the two
horses, but eventually lost them where two trails forked.

"Taking the Sweetwater cutout to the Butte, I reckon," Howard
surmised.

They traveled all day, except for a stop about ten o'clock for
breakfast, and another late in the afternoon, to rest the horses. At
night, they put up at a ranch house, and were in the saddle again
early in the morning. Before noon, they struck a telephone line, and
Fraser called up Brandt at a ranch.

"Hello! This Sheriff Brandt? Lieutenant Fraser, of the Texas Rangers,
is talking. I'm on my way to town with a prisoner. We're at Christy's,
now. There will, perhaps, be an attempt to take him from us. I'll
explain the circumstances later. ... Yes.... Yes.... We can hold him,
I think, but there may be trouble.... Yes, that's it. We have no legal
right to detain him, I suppose.... That's what I was going to suggest.
Better send about four men to meet us. We'll come in on the Blasted
Pine road. About nine to-night, I should think."

As they rode easily along the dusty road, the Texan explained his plan
to his friends.

"We don't want any trouble with Yorky's crowd. We ain't any of us
deputies, and my commission doesn't run in Wyoming, of course. My
notion is to lie low in the hills two or three hours this afternoon,
and give Brandt a chance to send his men out to meet us. The
responsibility will be on them, and we can be sworn in as deputies,
too,"

They rested in a grassy draw, about fifteen miles from town, and took
the trail again shortly after dark. It was an hour later that Fraser,
who had an extraordinary quick ear, heard the sound of men riding
toward them. He drew his party quickly into the shadows of the hills,
a little distance from the road.

They could hear voices of the advancing party, and presently could
make out words.

"I tell you, they've got to come in on this road, Slim," one of the
men was saying dogmatically. "We're bound to meet up with them. That's
all there is to it."

"Yorky," whispered Howard, in the ranger's ear.

They rode past in pairs, six of them in all. As chance would have it,
Siegfried's pony, perhaps recognizing a friend among those passing,
nickered shrilly its greeting. Instantly, the riders drew up.

"Where did that come from?" Yorky asked, in a low voice.

"From over to the right. I see men there now See! Up against that
hill." Slim pointed toward the group in the shadow.

Yorky hailed them. "That you, Sig?"

"Yuh bane von good guesser," answered the Norwegian.

"How many of you are there?"

"Four, Yorky," Fraser replied.

"There are six of us. We've got you outnumbered, boys."

Very faintly there came to the lieutenant the beat of horses' feet. He
sparred for time.

"What do you want, Yorky?"

"You know what we want. That murderer you've got there-- that's what
we want."

"We're taking him in to be tried, Yorky. Justice will be done to him."

"Not at Gimlet Butte it won't. No jury will convict him for killing
Jed Briscoe, from Lost Valley. We're going to hang him, right now."

"You'll have to fight for him, my friend, and before you do that I
want you to understand the facts."

"We understand all the facts we need to, right now."

The lieutenant rode forward alone. He knew that soon they too would
hear the rhythmic beat of the advancing posse.

"We've got all night to settle this, boys. Let's do what is fair and
square. That's all I ask."

"Now you're shouting, lieutenant. That's all we ask."

"It depends on what you mean by fair and square," another one spoke
up.

The ranger nodded amiably at him. "That you, Harris? Well, let's look
at the facts right. Here's Lost Valley, that's had a bad name ever
since it was inhabited. Far as I can make out its settlers are honest
men, regarded outside as miscreants. Just as folks were beginning to
forget it, comes the Squaw Creek raid. Now, I'm not going into that,
and I'm not going to say a word against the man that lies dead up in
the hills. But I'll say this: His death solves a problem for a good
many of the boys up there. I'm going to make it my business to see
that the facts are known right down in Gimlet Butte. I'm going to lift
the blame from the boys that were present, and couldn't help what
happened."

Yorky was impressed, but suspicion was not yet banished from his mind.
"You seem to know a lot about it, lieutenant."

"No use discussing that, Yorky. I know what I know. Here's the great
big point: If you lynch the man that shot Jed, the word will go out
that the valley is still a nest of lawless outlaws. The story will be
that the Squaw Creek raiders and their friends did it. Just as the
situation is clearing up nicely, you'll make it a hundred times worse
by seeming to indorse what Jed did on Squaw Creek."

"By thunder, that's right," Harris blurted.

Fraser spoke again. "Listen, boys. Do you hear horses galloping? That
is Sheriff Brandt's deputies, coming to our assistance. You've lost
the game, but you can save your faces yet. Join us, and kelp escort
the prisoner to town. Nobody need know why you came out. We'll put it
that it was to guard against a lynching."

The men looked at each other sheepishly. They had been outwitted, and
in their hearts were glad of it. Harris turned to the ranger with a
laugh. "You're a good one, Fraser. Kept us here talking, while your
renforcements came up. Well, boys, I reckon we better join the
Sunday-school class."

So it happened that when Sheriff Brandt and his men came up they found
the mountain folk united. He was surprised at the size of the force
with the Texan.

"You're certainly of a cautious disposition, lieutenant. With eight
men to help you, I shouldn't have figured you needed my posse," he
remarked.

"It gives you the credit of bringing in the prisoner, sheriff," Steve
told him unblushingly, voicing the first explanation that came to his
mind.

  CHAPTER XVIII

 A WITNESS IN REBUTTAL

Two hours later, Lieutenant Fraser was closeted with Brandt and
Hilliard. He told them his story-- or as much of it as he deemed
necessary. The prosecuting attorney heard him to an end before he gave
a short, skeptical laugh.

"It doesn't seem to me you've quite lived up to your reputation,
lieutenant," he commented.

"I wasn't trying to," retorted Steve.

"What do you mean by that?"

"I have told you how I got into the valley. I couldn't go in there and
betray my friends."

Hilliard wagged his fat forefinger. "How about betraying our trust?
How about throwing us down? We let you escape, after you had given us
your word to do this job, didn't we?"

"Yes. I had to throw you down. There wasn't any other way."

"You tell a pretty fishy story, lieutenant. It doesn't stand to reason
that one man did all the mischief on that Squaw Creek raid."

"It is true. Not a shadow of a doubt of it. I'll bring you three
witnesses, if you'll agree to hold them guiltless."

"And I suppose I'm to agree to hold you guiltless of Faulkner's death,
too?" the lawyer demanded.

"I didn't say that. I'm here, Mr. Hilliard, to deliver my person,
because I can't stand by the terms of our agreement. I think I've been
fair with you."

Hilliard looked at Brandt, with twinkling eyes. It struck Fraser that
they had between them some joke in which he was not a sharer.

"You're willing to assume full responsibility for the death of
Faulkner, are you? Ready to plead guilty, eh?"

Fraser laughed. "Just a moment. I didn't say that. What I said was
that I'm here to stand my trial. It's up to you to prove me guilty."

"But, in point of fact, you practically admit it."

"In point of fact, I would prefer not to say so. Prove it, if you
can."

"I have witnesses here, ready to swear to the truth, lieutenant."

"Aren't your witnesses prejudiced a little?"

"Maybe." The smile on Hilliard's fat face broadened. "Two of them are
right here. Suppose we find out."

He stepped to the door of the inner office, and opened it. From the
room em